# August 28, 2023: VA ID business line review
*Ask VA Integration Team*

## Agenda

- Introductions
- Review AVA form fields
- Review category and topic names

## Attendees

- Our team: Chante, Tyler, Ruchi, Thomas
- VA ID team: Jeremy Hass, Elijah Arogundade 
- CRM team: Shelby, Jaime (dropped off early), Maria

## Key takeaways

- `Tell us the reason you're contacting us?`: Answers to this question aren’t that helpful to answer inquiries but can be somewhat helpful for organizing data.

- `How should we get in touch with you?`: Agents respond mostly by email and occasionally phone.
> "Typically we use email as a default. We're not set up to do a lot of callbacks."

- `Veteran's Gender*`: It can help to know the gender to identify a veteran, especially when the submitter provides minimal information.

- Military service fields: EDIPI and SSN are most helpful to identify a veteran. Some fields are needed in other scenarios in this category, like agents needing `Service number` to create a record.
> "To create a record, we need their service number."

- The team approved most of the proposed names and are open to merging some sub-topics by working with the CRM team.

## Actions

- [ ] Becky to upload the content spreadsheet to [our Teams group](https://teams.microsoft.com/l/team/19%3a4Ob1zAfGudTw69spq6PRzghO_lH4Vzos1fEoGtbKXWI1%40thread.tacv2/conversations?groupId=e8e23038-c4df-413d-85d1-7a220ff43ba5&tenantId=e95f1b23-abaf-45ee-821d-b7ab251ab3bf), so the CRM team can review with business line teams
- [ ] Technical issues team meet with CRM team if they choose to remove topics or subtopics

## References

- [Category, topic and subtopic proposed names spreadsheet](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1AlUqvwn49ah2gHniTwx3x0afOPliKgURo575e73OH40/edit#gid=1192783561) we reviewed in Google Sheets.
- [Form fields review (with business lines)](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1GIsq9Y6Ap9mBUL49j1Ad7tm1N_nfD0Yoxw9ThtexCMU/edit#gid=329502423) we reviewed in Google Sheets.
- [Complete meeting notes](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1y5nzZ1pDojdTjKEXu3d0eM_jxj72WrSRxaEsZOoiqkA/edit) in Google Docs.
