# DMC Sync
May 12, 2020

## Agenda:
1. DMC Leadership guidance 
2. Spreadsheet and additional artifacts
3. Design Process and Intro --->Noah, Riley, Becca 

#### Attendees: 
Leah Keeler, Riley Orr, Rebecca Walsh, Cameron Testerman, Paul Kimball, Chris Viere, Noah Swerin, TJ Parro, Joseph Veit

#### Background:
The Benefits & Memorials 2 team is working on a solution that allows Veterans to more quickly and easily understand if and why they may have debts with the VA, and how to work with the VA to resolve them. 

#### Purpose:
We are meeting today so the DMC team and BaM2 team can sync and discuss the new scope, the letters, and proposed UI

### Key Takeaways
- The scope has been reduced to only Compensation + Pension letters 
- Noah will send a document containing all the letter types we will display
- Electronic Financial Status Report (FSR) is not in the initial scope, but is in the backlog
- DMC team needs to validate that all the letter fields in our scope are available in the API
- DMC team showed us UI that allows someone to search a VA file number to view all debts; they will send us screenshots of this UI with mock data

### Next Steps
- Product outline needs to be updated to reflect the new scope
- Noah will send the BaM2 team the document containing all the letter types in scope 
- DMC team will send screenshots of the UI they showed the BaM2 team with mock data as reference for design
- BaM2 team is currently in the process of synthesis from DMC interviews & will review letter types when received 

### Notes: 

* Noah Swerin Intro
    * Financial analyst at DMC 
    * Worked at DMC for 10 years in a variety of diff roles 
    * Working on financial management business management mainly - implementing new financial software VA-wide 
    * Still gets involved in diff projects at DMC 
    * Worked very closely with Paul Kimball and Joe previously 
* Chris Viere updates from leadership team
    * We can review the letters as first round of scope
    * TJ can run through a flow to influence how design can make navigation
* Noah screensharing letters and discussing
    * Type of debts serviced: 
        * Benefits portion (VBA)
        * Compensation and Pension debts 
        * People who receive compensation benefits from VA on a monthly basis based on disability rating 
        * Pension is based on financial need
    * Multitude of letters: 
        * Initial demand letter is first letter letting the veteran know they have the debt, how much it is, and options they have - front and backside to those letters 
        * Names, file numbers, debt amount, debt type, at the bottom of each letter there’s a payment coupon that has fill-ins that check-scanning software reads to gain the collection information when check is received 
* Leah - initial scope as was presented to us by high-level stakeholders were not the letters, but templates of different types of debt. Is that what you’re saying?
    * Noah - yes, I think they over simplified it saying there were 6 letters. In reality there’s a lot of debt types and a whole bunch of different letters. 
* Noah continuing about letters
    * We want to start with a smaller scope and do a portion of debt type and send that up the chain 
* Leah - are all the letters uploaded to eFolder on VBMS? That was part of the initial requirements and why it was presented the 5 letter types were chosen. Those were the letters uploaded to the eFolders 
    * Noah - Prior to the eFolders, there was a system called Virtual VA that vets didn’t have access to but VSO’s and VA offices did where they could see these PDFs that could be downloaded and printed for the veteran. They don’t all the time anymore. The VA has an issue with addresses and change of addresses so there’s a lot of lost mail/thrown away/etc so more people are using the VA web portals. 
* Leah - All the letters are in eFolder?
    * Noah - I don’t believe all of them. All of them are in the eFolder. Maybe 3 of the 6 that are provided are in there. 
* TJ will send us the document Noah is presenting. It has the 6 letters and each of the letters, and each of the fields filled out so we can compare language. 

**UI demo**
* (Cannot take screenshots because of PII)
* Puts file number and clicks on display results, it goes out and finds all the debts for the file number
* Clicked on first file number to display left nav - select Debt History
* We will get mockup screens with test data 

“When the benefits administration sends out a letter letting them know the benefit is changing for whatever reason, they give them time to respond. They send another letter saying they’ve changed their benefits and if a debt is created they’ll be getting contacted by the DMC. DMC’s letters don’t have the reason, just the debt type and amount”

“VA form 5655 is a financial status report. the form is used for variety of different reasons and is put in, but most veterans go online and fill out the fillable PDF”

“Depending on the letter, some rights and responsibilities are included. But they don’t need to be included.”

Joe - Having the electronic FSR is not in the initial scope but is in the backlog 

Everything included in the document BaM2 will receive should be in scope 
* Leah - everything is included in the API?
    * TJ says it’s all in the API. He will have to go back and make sure all the fields are in the API. Might need to adjust the API consumption pattern based on finalized flow. 

* The letters Noah is sending are the initial first demand letters only for compensation and pension types; we’re not touching education or any other subsequent letters
