# Summary of existing related research findings and data

**Questions we want to answer**
- How well can visitors find forms - both the online and the PDF versions - as well as form-related tools such as the form upload tool or their form status?
- Can visitors easily find and understand information about the different ways to apply and how to do them?
- Can visitors find related forms that they may need to submit?


## Find a VA form experience

**Questions specific to this area:**

### Medallia data

**Summary**
- Source: [Find a VA form Q1 2025 medallia feedback](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/blob/master/products/find-a-va-form/research/2025-medallia-feedback/1q.md)
- Time period: January 1 - April 2025
- CSAT: 56.2% (571 submissions)
- Trust in VA: 55.1% (499 submissions)
- Able to complete task? 18% (668 submissions)

**Themes related to findability of forms** <br>
*The following is analysis generated by VAGPT 4o based on 271 text responses to the VA.gov feedback and intercept surveys*

- Visitors are stating it is easy to navigate and find forms (23 comments)
  - "VA Forms are very easy to locate and download"
  - "Was able to find the form I was looking for very quickly"
  - "It was very easy to find and download the VA form I needed."
  - "Forms needed have been very easy to find"
- Some visitors did have difficulty finding forms (8 comments)
  - "finding forms is very difficult"
  - "I always have a hard time finding the right page to find a form."
  - "It is difficult to navigate, not knowing exactly what I need."
- A few visitors wanted to upload a completed form but either couldn't find it or it wasn't available (3 comments)
  - "These forms need to be uploaded to your web site not mailed I sent a form back in July and it was received at the location and then lost!!!! That is unsatisfactory. Now you have changed the form and I had to resubmit the form and remail it to the same location."
  - "There's no link to upload a form, once completed on this page, as instructions state."
  - "Upload the 21-509 form, as it says I can do on the 21-509 form download page (https://www.va.gov/find-forms/about-form-21p-509/), 'Download this PDF form and fill it out. Then submit your completed form on this page....' I saw no link to upload the form, and no link that might take me to a form upload page."
  
**Other related comments:**
- "Need a central list of Forms"

### Analytics

Q1 2025 (Jan 1 - Mar 31)
Search.gov and GA4 data analyzed with VAGPT

#### Search clicks
- Of the top 1000 URLs clicked in search, 223,098 of the 1,542,293 (14.5%) clicks were pages within the Find a VA form sub-directory
  - The forms landing page was clicked 1.59% of the time
  - Individual about form pages were clicked 12.88% of the time
- There were approximately 134,065 searches that included the word "form"
  - 588 (58.8%) of those queries included a specific form number in them and were entered 119,766 times (89.3% of all form related queries)

Page | Clicks from search results
--- | ---
Find a VA form landing page | 24,463
About form 21-0966 | 14,988
About form 22-5490 | 13,114
About form 20-0955 | 12,105
About form 21-4138 | 11,109
About form 22-1990e | 9087

#### Page performance
- 57.6% of page traffic is to specific about form pages, while 42.4% is to the Find a VA form landing page
- 

Page | Pave views | Entrance rate | Bounce rate | Exit rate
--- | --- | --- | --- | ---
All pages in section | 2,936,059 | 23.5% | 13.47% | 31.91%
All about form pages | 1,691,365 | 28.71% | 13.64% | 42.46%
Find a VA form landing page | 1,244,610 | 16.42% | 8.05% | 17.59%
About form 21-4138 | 89,054 | 37.75% | 18.21% | 47.055
About form 21-526EZ | 67,257 | 28.55% | 8.93% | 43.05%
About form 21-2680 | 64,422 | 26.57% | 12.42% | 44.08%

**Find a VA form landing page - top next pages**

Page | %
--- | --- 
Exit site | 17.59%
Home page | 11.03%


**Find a VA form landing page - top referring pages**

Page | %
--- | --- 
Home page | 11.54%
Search | 5.19%
Google | 3.29%


## Supporting forms for claims experience

**Questions specific to this area:**
- Are visitors able to find the specific form they need?
- How are they navigating to this space and where are they going?
- Can visitors to this area find other related forms?

### Medallia data

**Summary:**
- Source: [Supporting forms medallia findings](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/blob/master/products/find-a-va-form/research/2025-medallia-feedback/supportive-forms.md#supportive-forms---1q2025-medallia-findings-summary)
- Time period: April 2024 - April 2025
- CSAT: 59.6% (60 intercept submissions)
- Trust in VA: 48.9% (54 intercept submissions)
- Able to complete their task: 50.8% (93/183 feedbacl submissions)


**Themes related to findability of forms:** <br>
*The following is analysis generated by VAGPT 4o based on 197 text responses to the VA.gov feedback and intercept surveys*

- Visitors are having challenges finding forms that were previously started or submitted/completed online (18 comments)
  - "I'm trying to file for benefits. The site says I already have an intent to file on record, but I can't figure out how to access it."
  - "I had intent to file information i uploaded in 2023 less than a year ago and can no longer find the information/request"
  - "I filled out an intent to file last year the end of August / September how do you find it so you can fill it out?"
  - "I want to submit buddy letter for my brother's VA disability claim.  I cannot see form I submitted.  I have receipt but cannot print it.  My brother said he needs copy of form to submit everything with his application.  How do I print what I already submitted?"
- Visitors are having difficulty finding form - specifically related forms that do not live in this section of the site (5 comments)
  - "I NEED THE INTENT TO FILE I SUBMITTED.  I CAN'T FIND IT AND THERE'S NO DIRECTION ON HOW TO PULL IT UP.  I CAN'T FILE A NEW ONE.  FIX PLEASE"
  - "I'm looking for the VA form 21-526EZ form here and I cannot find it. I got a letter stating I needed to file this in addition"
  - "TRY TO COMPLETE FORMS 21-4142 AND 21-4142A AS REQUESTED. I WAS ONLY ABLE TO COMPLETE 21-4142A ON LINE"
  - "Needed form for spouse to speak on my behalf. Not finding exact form needed."
  - "DIFFICULT TO FIND THINGS AND VERY DIFFICULT TO UNDERSTAND WHERE TO GO AND WHAT IS NEEDED FOR VA DISABILITY COMPENSATION CLAIM"
- Visitors are struggling to find how/where to upload a completed form. (4 comments)
  - "I was trying to upload the 21-0845 but it's impossible! I nice worker emailed it to me but then this site is horrible! Nothing is easy to find and after 30+ min, I give up."
  - "no link to upload nexus letter"
  - "Submit a statement on behalf of a Veteran; it would have been easier if I could upload a document"
  - "upload a form 4142 so I don't have to fax it."

### Analytics

Q1 2025 (Jan 1 - Mar 31)


**Summary**
- The landing page receives only 2.6% of all page views in the section
- Most visitors come to the landing page from other forms in the section or from links in the disability hub.


**Page performance**

Page | Pave views | Entrance rate | Bounce rate | Exit rate
--- | --- | --- | --- | ---
All pages in section | 841,494 | 3.8% | 9.54% | 6042%
Supporting forms landing page | 22,188 | 13.87% | 5.24% | 12.44%


**Supporting forms landing page - top next pages**

Page | %
--- | --- 
Home page | 14.14%
Exit site | 12.44%
Find form > About form 21-10210 | 11.46%
Disability > Additional forms | 8.98%
Search | 5.68% 


**Supporting forms landing page - top referring pages**

Page | %
--- | --- 
Forms within the section | 35.11%
Disability > How to file | 18.72%
Disability > Additional forms | 15.1%
External search | 18.14%
Search | 5.43%



**Top 5 related pages clicked in search**
- In the top 1000 URLs clicked in search, 7,960 of 1,542,293 (.5%) clicks were pages within the supporting forms for claims form sub-directory

Page | Clicks from search results
--- | ---
Supporting forms for claims landing page | 835 
Lay witness form 21-10210 | 5044
Priority processing 20-10207 | 1680
Release info form 21-4142 | 282
Substitute claimant 21P-0847 | 119



