# Summary of existing related research findings and data

**Question we want to answer**
- How well can visitors find forms - both the online and the PDF versions - as well as form-related tools such as the form upload tool or their form status?

"Need a central list of Forms"

## Find a VA form experience

**Questions specific to this area:**

### Medallia data

**Summary**
- Source: [Find a VA form Q1 2025 medallia feedback](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/blob/master/products/find-a-va-form/research/2025-medallia-feedback/1q.md)
- Time period: January 1 - April 2025
- CSAT: 56.2% (571 submissions)
- Trust in VA: 55.1% (499 submissions)
- Able to complete task? 18% (668 submissions)

**Themes related to findability of forms**
*The following is analysis generated by VAGPT 4o based on 271 text responses to the VA.gov feedback and intercept surveys*

- Visitors are stating it is easy to navigate and find forms (23 comments)
  - "VA Forms are very easy to locate and download"
  - "Was able to find the form I was looking for very quickly"
  - "It was very easy to find and download the VA form I needed."
  - "Forms needed have been very easy to find"


- Some visitors did have difficulty finding forms (8 comments)
  - "finding forms is very difficult"
  - "I always have a hard time finding the right page to find a form."
  - "It is difficult to navigate, not knowing exactly what I need."

- A few visitors wanted to upload a completed form but either couldn't find it or it wasn't available (3 comments)
  - "These forms need to be uploaded to your web site not mailed I sent a form back in July and it was received at the location and then lost!!!! That is unsatisfactory. Now you have changed the form and I had to resubmit the form and remail it to the same location."
  - "There's no link to upload a form, once completed on this page, as instructions state."
  - "Upload the 21-509 form, as it says I can do on the 21-509 form download page (https://www.va.gov/find-forms/about-form-21p-509/), 'Download this PDF form and fill it out. Then submit your completed form on this page....' I saw no link to upload the form, and no link that might take me to a form upload page."
  


### Analytics




## Supporting forms for claims experience

**Questions specific to this area:**
- Are visitors able to find the specific form they need?
- How are they navigating to this space and where are they going?
- Can visitors to this area find other related forms?

### Medallia data

**Summary:**
- Source: [Supporting forms medallia findings](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/blob/master/products/find-a-va-form/research/2025-medallia-feedback/supportive-forms.md#supportive-forms---1q2025-medallia-findings-summary)
- Time period: April 2024 - April 2025
- CSAT: 59.6% (60 intercept submissions)
- Trust in VA: 48.9% (54 intercept submissions)
- Able to complete their task: 50.8% (93/183 feedbacl submissions)


**Themes related to findability of forms:**
- Visitors are having challenges finding forms that were previously started or submitted/completed online.
  - "I'm trying to file for benefits. The site says I already have an intent to file on record, but I can't figure out how to access it."
  - "I had intent to file information i uploaded in 2023 less than a year ago and can no longer find the information/request"
  - "I filled out an intent to file last year the end of August / September how do you find it so you can fill it out?"
- Visitors are struggling to find how/where to upload a completed form.
  - "I was trying to upload the 21-0845 but it's impossible! I nice worker emailed it to me but then this site is horrible! Nothing is easy to find and after 30+ min, I give up."
  - "no link to upload nexus letter"
  - "Submit a statement on behalf of a Veteran; it would have been easier if I could upload a document"
- Visitors are either looking for related forms that or not understanding how forms are related.
  - "I NEED THE INTENT TO FILE I SUBMITTED.  I CAN'T FIND IT AND THERE'S NO DIRECTION ON HOW TO PULL IT UP.  I CAN'T FILE A NEW ONE.  FIX PLEASE"
  - "I'm looking for the VA form 21-526EZ form here and I cannot find it. I got a letter stating I needed to file this in addition"
  - "TRY TO COMPLETE FORMS 21-4142 AND 21-4142A AS REQUESTED. I WAS ONLY ABLE TO COMPLETE 21-4142A ON LINE"

**Additional related quotes:** 
- "I want to submit buddy letter for my brother's VA disability claim.  I cannot see form I submitted.  I have receipt but cannot print it.  My brother said he needs copy of form to submit everything with his application.  How do I print what I already submitted?"
- "completing 21-4142 forms - how do i know which forms have been completed and accepted?"
- "why can't I print out VA FORM 21-10210? I find it much easier to rough draft on the form and then type it out on the computer after my edits
- "Needed form for spouse to speak on my behalf. Not finding exact form needed."
- "I was trying to finish my witness/lay statement and there was nothing to click on to finish"
- "DIFFICULT TO FIND THINGS AND VERY DIFFICULT TO UNDERSTAND WHERE TO GO AND WHAT IS NEEDED FOR VA DISABILITY COMPENSATION CLAIM"
- "I wish to print out the completed 21-10210 to mail in with other documents later"
- "I think I am doubling up on what I am submitting. I submitted evidence using Quick Submit but I think I tried to submit using the supporting forms for claims before I found out about the Quick Submit way. Thank you"
- "VA FORM 21-4142a is not the same as the one you fill out on line. very confusing"
- "I need confirmation that my medical release authorization forms were submitted online"
- "The file I was working on is no longer there."

**Related positive comments:**
- "Easy to navigate."
- "It's easy to find everything I am looking for."
- "I was able to navigate the system with ease."

### Analytics
