platform/cms/authoring-experience/research/cms-personas-journeys/recruitment-comms/README.md, before:

Research recruitment comms

Communication process:
Audience: VSA public website teams, ~ 11 people 
Reach out in Slack via individual DM to get availability and gauge interest
Send followup email to serve as official invite and confirmation for scheduling

Slack template
[Initial contact:]

Hi [NAME],
I’m Jordana, the design lead on the CMS team responsible for making improvements to the Va.gov’s content management system. We’re currently conducting research that will inform our plans to improve the CMS, and would like to invite you to participate in a one-hour usability study.

Our team is particularly interested in you and other benefits hub editors who use the CMS intensively, as your perspective can indicate pain points and opportunities to improve workflow that have far-reaching effects for other users.

Would you be interested in helping us?

---
[followup contact after participant indicates that they’re interested]

Great! We really appreciate your participation. The next step is to gauge your availability, then we’ll send an official followup email to confirm a time. Can you give me a sense of when you’d be able to participate during [date range]?


Email template
CMS Usability testing recruitment email 

Subject line: Help us make the VA.gov CMS better

Dear [name],
Thank you for your interest in participating in the CMS usability study. Your input will help us understand how the CMS is currently serving content editors, and  inform our plans for future improvements.

The study take up to one hour, conducted [on site in your office / remotely using Zoom video conferencing]. During the study, the research moderator will ask you to use your login to access the CMS and perform certain tasks. One or two other members of our team may be present to observe and take notes. Your feedback will remain anonymous, and we will follow VSA-CMS research procedures to protect the privacy of recordings and other documentation. 

We’ve tentatively a session with you for [date]. Please reply to this email to confirm scheduling. 

After we’ve confirmed a time, [someone will be in touch with details about setting up the remote session] OR [someone will be in touch about meeting in person].

[ALTERNATELY: to confirm scheduling, please visit this calendly link and select a time slot that works for you. I’ll follow up with you with additional details. If none of these times work and you want to participate, please reply with some times that work better for you.]

If you have further questions or concerns, please reach out to myself, or to Kevin Walsh ([Kev’s VA email addy]), VFS-CMS product manager. We look forward to talking with you!

Regards,

Jordana Mello
Design lead, VFS CMS team

Commit message:

Made changes to content
Adapted template to journeys + personas study

platform/cms/authoring-experience/research/cms-personas-journeys/recruitment-comms/README.md, after:

## Research recruitment comms

### Communication process:
- Audience: VSA public website teams, ~ 11 people 
- Reach out in Slack via individual DM to get availability and gauge interest
- Send follow-up email to serve as official invite and confirmation for scheduling

#### Slack template
##### [Initial contact]

Hi [NAME],
I’m Jordana, the design lead on the CMS team responsible for making improvements to the Va.gov’s content management system. We’re currently conducting research that will inform our plans to improve the CMS, and would like to invite you to participate in a 1.5 hours personas and journey mapping session.

Our team is particularly interested in how your perspective can indicate pain points and apportunities to improve content creation and CMS onboarding.

Would you be interested in helping us?

---
##### [follow-up contact after participant indicates that they’re interested]

Great! We really appreciate your participation. The next step is to gauge your availability, then we’ll send an official followup email to confirm a time. Can you give me a sense of when you’d be able to participate during March 9th and 20th?


#### Email template
##### CMS Usability testing recruitment email 

Subject line: Help us make the VA.gov CMS better

Dear [name],
Thank you for your interest in participating in the CMS usability study. Your input will help us understand how the CMS is currently serving content editors, and  inform our plans for future improvements.

The study take up to one hour, conducted [on site in your office / remotely using Zoom video conferencing]. During the study, the research moderator will ask you to use your login to access the CMS and perform certain tasks. One or two other members of our team may be present to observe and take notes. Your feedback will remain anonymous, and we will follow VSA-CMS research procedures to protect the privacy of recordings and other documentation. 

We’ve tentatively a session with you for [date]. Please reply to this email to confirm scheduling. 

After we’ve confirmed a time, [someone will be in touch with details about setting up the remote session] OR [someone will be in touch about meeting in person].

[ALTERNATELY: to confirm scheduling, please visit this calendly link and select a time slot that works for you. I’ll follow up with you with additional details. If none of these times work and you want to participate, please reply with some times that work better for you.]

If you have further questions or concerns, please reach out to myself, or to Kevin Walsh (kevin.walsh@civicactions.com), VFS-CMS product manager. We look forward to talking with you!

Regards,

Jordana Mello
Design lead, VFS-CMS team
