# June 10, 2024: Meet to discuss design questions

Ask VA VA.gov Team

## Agenda

  *   Questions about specific fields (20 minutes)
  *   Share designs (20 minutes)
  *   Printing (5 minutes)

 ## Attendees

 * Ask VA VA.gov: Tyler Gindraux, Becky Phung, Megan Siddle
 * Ask VA CRM: Chris Clemens, Tamara Kanterman
 * GI Bill: Tammy Hurley, Lisa Eaton, Jackie Mikoley, Courtney White, Matthew Ziolkowski, Sarahbeth Dean, Brian Ellis, Kimberly Castor, Kevin White

## Key takeaways

### Are you a GI Bill beneficiary?
We need to know if a question is personal or business, but we don't need to know whether someone is currently applying or receiving GI Bill benefits.

> "If we know it's coming to Buffalo or Muskogee then we should be okay."_

> "We don't necessarily need to know whether they're currently applying vs. receiving [...] as long as we know it's personal."

➡️ Next step: We will `Are you a GI Bill beneficiary` question from the designs.

### 2. School state or residency state
For personal inquiries, it's ideal to have school state and residency is the backup option. We need this information get it to the right RPO.

> "The state of the school is the driver, because you can live in NY and go to school online [in a different state]. It's more ideal to have state of school, state of residency is a fallback."

➡️ Next step: We will refine the school or residency state question in the designs.

### School facility or school state
For business inquiries, people need the option to search by facility code, not just name. We will add facility code to the search.

> "Sometimes, there are two facilities with the same name. But they have different codes."

➡️ Next step: We will include school facility code in facility search.

We also learned that not all Work Study sites are in WEAMS. Also, Work Study site supervisors don't always know the student's school state. Instead, it would be more accurate and easier on submitters, if Work Study inquiries let you input the **submitter's** facility state.

> "Are all work study sites in WEAMS? No."

> "Work Study site supervisors do not [always] know their student's facility code nor are they required to."

> "Work Study site supervisors could put the submitter's facility state."

➡️ Next step: We will discuss issues with missing options in WEAMS list with Chris/CRM.
➡️ Next step: We will refine the facility question for Work Study business submitters.

### File uploads
They're not seeing problems with personal submitters uploading "random" documents, or not knowing what to upload. The GI Bill team sends request through a letter, so that's how submitters know exactly what to attach.

> "[They might need to attach] their DD214, birth certificate, social security card, orders..."

➡️ Next step: No action needed.

### Social security number
For business inquiries, we don't need to collect social security number. But, we show **all submitters** what information we have on file about them before they start the form. To help mitigate this problem, we will remove the social security number and date of birth from the review page for business inquiries, because it's not information we actually collect and store in CRM anyways.

➡️ Next step: We will remove SSN and DOB from the review page on business inquiries.

### Education phone number
In addition to the general 1-800 number at the bottom of every page, we could provide the education phone number for education-related submissions. We will include this on the confirmation page.

➡️ Next step: We will reach out to education team to get EDU phone number and add to confirmation page.

## Next steps

- [ ] We will `Are you a GI Bill beneficiary` question from the designs.
- [ ] We will refine the school or residency state question in the designs.
- [ ] We will include school facility code in facility search.
- [ ] We will refine the facility question for Work Study business submitters.
- [ ] We will discuss issues with missing options in WEAMS list with Chris/CRM.
- [ ] We will remove SSN and DOB from the review page on business inquiries.
- [ ] We will reach out to education team to get EDU phone number and add to confirmation page
 
