# June 22, 2023: Questions for the education team

Ask VA VA.gov Team

### Could you share why sign-in (authentication) is required to ask questions in this category?

We need to know we’re communicating with the person that they say they are; because we’re exchanging PII. That also applies to SCO who write in on behalf of Veterans, they have to provide SSNs in order for us to answer their questions. Tammy decided that authentication should be required. “It’s something we definitely wanted.”

### Do you see this evolving overtime and allowing for unauthenticated users to ask questions?

“I don’t see this evolving over time.” The only time we get unauthenticated queries is when a query gets re-routed. “We would inform the submitter that they need to be authenticated before they share any information. I’m not sure if they need to re-submit it. I just know they have to go through the authentication process… I’m guessing, yes, they will probably re-submit it. We wouldn’t ask an unauthenticated person for SSN, or any PII.” Confirmed that someone will need to re-submit.

Also, if they’re not authenticated then they will be required to use another means. Like, mailing something, etc. We’re moving away from any unauthenticated interactions with users.

### For inquiries that are coming in, it sounds like document uploading and sharing is very important. Is this typically from SCOs vs. Veterans or family members?

We currently get documentation from SCOs, Vets, and family members. But, we’re moving away from accepting most things from SCOs. We currently get documentation from “both sides” but “we expect the number of SCOs submissions to drop soon.”

Kenda, Work Study division, “we use the Ask VA portal as a means of receiving all of our work. Contracts, time records come through Ask VA.” Supervisors that VA approves are submitting this for their students.

### Ask VA is for asking questions, so why are supervisors submitting?

Ask VA is another way for folks to get to us, like Quick Submit. Other than snail mail. By electronic means, Ask VA has become a mechanism. But we’re modernizing and moving away from that. So, Work Study management needs to be modernized. It’s a back up system. It’s not just a question portal, we use it to receive documents because it can be a secure way of receiving claims related documents.

### Where did the current list of education topics come from?

We had a system previous to this that had the topics in it. When we moved to the new system we reviewed the topics, we wanted to make sure topics were clear for claimants and people submitting documentation. We pretty much kept the same ones from the old system.

We’re open to changing topics. We submitted a few months ago asking to change topics, so the list is condensed. (Ruchi asked them to send the condensed version of topics, Lisa will send and CC Tammy – added to meeting action items Meeting Notes with Education Team )

### Can you share what you do with each field of information that’s required in the education category? Is there a reason why a specific field is required? (For example, how does the “I am a: Work Study Site Supervisor” affect routing, help agents or help a user?)

Site Supervisor categories, the majority of the fields, once they are selected that drives the inquiry to the correct queue. (Routing).

It also helps create views, for example, you can create a view for everything submitted for a work site supervisor. (Reviewing and answering queries).

### With the current version of Ask VA, what (1) do you want removed or (2) can’t change?

Definitely open to change if something works better. Tammy: “Are you guys doing focus groups? How will you decide what to change?” Tammy: “If we have changes we want to see, can we share them with you?”

Kendra: “For Work Study, because this is currently our primary means of receiving documentation. As few changes as possible to the customer side (what they see and how they submit) will be most beneficial to them. We’re all for changes, but we want to maintain consistency so there’s not too much of a change for them so they have to re-learn.”

### Can you share a brief overview of who is involved with routing and answering inquiries? And the general business process for ultimately resolving an inquiry from a Veteran?

Tammy: “Our (Regional Processing Office, Muskogee and Buffalo offices) RPOs are answering questions. I do get a few, if they come in with something that is off topic, like weams(?) or the comparison tool.”

Jacky: “The folks on my team who answer queries are the same people who process the education claims.”

### You mentioned that you have comms that go out to Veterans+ who use Ask VA. Can we see an example of the emails, mailers, text messages, that go out?

Terry: “We share comms with stakeholders. We use the link to remind beneficiaries that they can submit their documents and questions through AVA. That’s another avenue to provide their information.” Just generally.

“With you all, after you get down the road, if there’s a significant change that beneficiaries would see then we would communicate that. Reminding beneficiaries that there’s slight changes, etc.”

Kendra: The Ask VA information is also provided on every Veteran letter that goes out.
