# May 20, 2025

Ask VA VA.gov Team

### Attendees

- Ask VA VA.gov: Tyler Gindraux (Facilitator), Megan Siddle, Becky Phung, Ariel Martinez
- Ask VA CRM: Jaime Rocha, Kathleen Reevy, Jennifer Abernathy, Kyle Polewaczyk, Stephen Zimmerman
- GI Bill: Lisa Eaton

## Background

The GI Bill flagged a set of inquiries that are missing a Veteran Relationship. They are all personal inquiries and the Level of Authentication is listed as expected. The Relationship field is blank, which they did not expect.

They also flagged that the subject field can contain spaces, which they did not expect.

### Previous behavior on ask.va.gov

- Personal inquiries are listed as ‘Personal’ in the upper right hand corner.
- Personal inquiries list a Veteran Relationship as Other (Personal) or GI Bill Beneficiary.

### New behavior on VA.gov

- Personal inquiries are listed as ‘Personal’ in the upper right hand corner.
- UPDATED: Personal inquiries do not list a Veteran Relationship. Agents can tell whether an inquiry is personal or business in the upper right hand corner.

### Why did this behavior change?

When we tested with Veterans we found that they struggle to choose between ‘Other (Personal)’ and ‘GI Bill Beneficiary.’ We met with the GI Bill team on June 10, 2024 to discuss this issue and asked whether it’s important for them to know whether a personal submitter is a GI Bill beneficiary or not, and they said:

> "We don't necessarily need to know whether they're currently applying vs. receiving [...] as long as we know it's personal."

We agreed that we will remove this question from the form, but agents will still know if an inquiry is business or personal because of the level of authentication (listed in the upper right hand corner) on every inquiry.

### How we can resolve this issue

- Discuss what information the GI Bill team needs about a Veteran relationship for a personal inquiry and determine whether we need to add a question to the portal.
- Discuss issues with the subject field and determine what changes need to be made. Currently, our team can’t determine any differences between the subject field on VA.gov and ask.va.gov which both allow spaces and both come through on inquiries successfully.

### Next steps

We agreed that the GI Bill team does not need to know any details about the Veteran relationship besides that the fact that it is personal for personal inquiries. And we confirmed that business inquiries do show a Veteran Relationship (role). No futher action required.

We also discussed that the subject field allows a user to simply type a "space" which means the subject field has no text characters. This can cause issues for the GI Bill team who uses these fields for filtering. This behavior is consistent with ask.va.gov but should be updated moving forward.

#### Action item

- [ ] Add a ticket to VA.gov backlog to not allow just a space in the subject field
