platform/quality-assurance/testrail/README.md, before:

# How to use TestRail
### Please note that you will need access to TestRail in order to use these tutorials and view the example project.  Read through [Getting Started](getting-started.md) if you need help getting an account.

## User Guides
1. [Getting Started](getting-started.md) - Get started using TestRail!
1. [Creating a project](creating-a-project.md) - You'll need a project to work with.
1. [Creating a test run](creating-a-test-run.md) - Plan for appropriate test coverage.
1. [Creating a test case](creating-a-test-case.md) - Fill in the gaps in test coverage with manual test cases.
1. [Executing tests](executing-tests.md) - Record the results of your test executions.
1. [Report results](report-results.md) - Report all your hard work!
---
## Screen Capture Tutorials (*NOTE* these tutorials are shared in [Google Drive](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1_LGqyaORIttL6Jf98pJhS8fIk3AXT1t1).  If you need access please request it from @Peter Hill.)
1. [Create a project](https://drive.google.com/a/oddball.io/file/d/15CbOeQosL2hX-ZC5KYM0qqpUFlLoBt0O/view?usp=sharing)
1. [Create a milestone](https://drive.google.com/a/oddball.io/file/d/1Aaa0LNamosyviHN8_e9x4xWEk2baKeDF/view?usp=sharing)
1. [Create a test plan](https://drive.google.com/a/oddball.io/file/d/1v5KIR3KJHkypfm7QJje0O7xo6aEtcCaC/view?usp=sharing)
1. [Create a test run](https://drive.google.com/a/oddball.io/file/d/1knw7OwNWbPFfcys9ijr6Ve_bOFuyxBQE/view?usp=sharing)
1. [Execute tests](https://drive.google.com/a/oddball.io/file/d/1O7YUBezrt-XQc48_RuulmVd9IqhXwpEm/view?usp=sharing)
1. [Report results](https://drive.google.com/a/oddball.io/file/d/1N7eA7vOqVyq_PgUKH1jBlF7r3Taco-mF/view?usp=sharing)
---
## Example Project
1. [Overview](https://dsvavsp.testrail.io/index.php?/projects/overview/2)
1. [Test Run](https://dsvavsp.testrail.io/index.php?/runs/view/7&group_by=cases:section_id&group_order=asc)
1. [Test Execution Results](https://dsvavsp.testrail.io/index.php?/tests/view/20/#testChange-11)
1. [Milestone Report](https://dsvavsp.testrail.io/index.php?/reports/view/2)

Commit message:

Docs for personal TestRail integration with GitHub

platform/quality-assurance/testrail/README.md, after:

# How to use TestRail
### Please note that you will need access to TestRail in order to use these tutorials and view the example project.  Read through [Getting Started](getting-started.md) if you need help getting an account.

## User Guides
1. [Getting Started](getting-started.md) - Get started using TestRail!
1. [Creating a project](creating-a-project.md) - You'll need a project to work with.
1. [Creating a test run](creating-a-test-run.md) - Plan for appropriate test coverage.
1. [Creating a test case](creating-a-test-case.md) - Fill in the gaps in test coverage with manual test cases.
1. [Executing tests](executing-tests.md) - Record the results of your test executions.
1. [Report results](report-results.md) - Report all your hard work!
1. [GitHub integration settings](github-integration.md) - Create a GitHub token and store it in TestRail to enable integration.
---
## Screen Capture Tutorials (*NOTE* these tutorials are shared in [Google Drive](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1_LGqyaORIttL6Jf98pJhS8fIk3AXT1t1).  If you need access please request it from @Peter Hill.)
1. [Create a project](https://drive.google.com/a/oddball.io/file/d/15CbOeQosL2hX-ZC5KYM0qqpUFlLoBt0O/view?usp=sharing)
1. [Create a milestone](https://drive.google.com/a/oddball.io/file/d/1Aaa0LNamosyviHN8_e9x4xWEk2baKeDF/view?usp=sharing)
1. [Create a test plan](https://drive.google.com/a/oddball.io/file/d/1v5KIR3KJHkypfm7QJje0O7xo6aEtcCaC/view?usp=sharing)
1. [Create a test run](https://drive.google.com/a/oddball.io/file/d/1knw7OwNWbPFfcys9ijr6Ve_bOFuyxBQE/view?usp=sharing)
1. [Execute tests](https://drive.google.com/a/oddball.io/file/d/1O7YUBezrt-XQc48_RuulmVd9IqhXwpEm/view?usp=sharing)
1. [Report results](https://drive.google.com/a/oddball.io/file/d/1N7eA7vOqVyq_PgUKH1jBlF7r3Taco-mF/view?usp=sharing)
---
## Example Project
1. [Overview](https://dsvavsp.testrail.io/index.php?/projects/overview/2)
1. [Test Run](https://dsvavsp.testrail.io/index.php?/runs/view/7&group_by=cases:section_id&group_order=asc)
1. [Test Execution Results](https://dsvavsp.testrail.io/index.php?/tests/view/20/#testChange-11)
1. [Milestone Report](https://dsvavsp.testrail.io/index.php?/reports/view/2)
