# Notetaking for 2025-05 Save in Progress research study

## Warm-up Questions

Let's start with a few questions...

1. I understand you are a Veteran. Is that right?  Yes

1. What kind of device are you using today? Computer
    * What operating system? Windows 11

1. What web browser do you use? Chrome

1. I will be sharing a web page link with you during the session. How would you prefer to receive the URL? I could dictate it to you, put it in the Zoom chat, email it to you, or _(for smartphone only)_ text it to you.

    * _(If text or email)_ Could the notetaker please text/email the link now? ([https://bit.ly/4lXVLTV](https://bit.ly/4lXVLTV)) -- after 4 is the lower case letter "L"

### For only assistive tech users

5. What assistive technology are you using right now? JAWS

1. How would you rate your level of experience with using a screen _(reader / magnifier)_--beginner, intermediate, advanced, or expert? Somewhere between advanced and expert. 

1. How long have you been using a screen _(reader / magnifier)_? Since the mid 1990’s

1. Have you ever shared your screen in Zoom while using a screen _(reader / magnifier)_? Yes

1. Is there anything else that we can do to support you during this session? No

### For everyone

10. What VA benefits, if any, do you have experience with? Medical 

1. Have you ever filled out a VA form online before? Yes

    * If so, can you tell me about your most recent experience? How did it go? 
I think it was a questionnaire that I filled out before a medical visit.

## User Tasks

### Task 0: Share screen

### Task 00: Open prototype

*Note to Chantel: During the user tasks, please especially try to record any comments about their **progress in filling out the form, saving their work, and their reactions to any error messages they see***

### Task 1: Form intro page

I'd like you to take a look at this page, and then use it to get your military records.
When I go to a new page I usually start from the top and arrow down to go through it. 
You can’t hear my computer talking, can you? I can. 
Okay so I just went down the page to see what was there, I think I’m at the bottom. Typically, I would have to login. You can but you don’t have to on here. 
### Task 2: Fill out form
Okay, please fill out this request to get your military records, but use fake information so you don’t share any of your personal information with me.
So, I chouse US and hit continue. (filling out form), I went to the next page. 
Okay that’s fine continue. (Continues to fill out form)
(Has too many numbers for S.S. number and got stuck. He wanted to know if he has too many numbers.) Facilitator asked how he would like to receive an error notification for this? The participant stated that this was great.
Going back to birth date information. The facilitator noticed participant was frustrated and asked what it was. Participant stated that the frustration was not the system but himself for not listening. He was doing what he would normally do instead of paying attention. 
I press enter on start your request. 
Do you have a preference between drop down verses, inputting the information yourself? Not here, but on a cell phone it takes a few more swipes. The three separate fields are what threw him off. He was just impatient and didn’t pay attention. 
If you had listened to the screen reader, did it read it or announce it in a way that made sense to you? Yes, let me show you. See I just started typing and didn’t hear what it said. I just didn’t listen all the way to the end because it’s just habit to start typing. That’s just because I listen to this thing so much, I don’t listen to it more than I have to. 
You’re an experienced screen reader so this is just how you operate. I don’t want you to change your habits at all, I just think it is interesting is all. 

### Task 3: (After enter SSN) Short break in filling out form

Pretend that your doorbell just rang, and you want to jump up to answer it. What will you do with the form that you're in the middle of filling out?
Me personally nothing. 
You mean just walk away from the computer, go answer the door and come back? Yes
### Task 4: Resume filling out form

OK, now let's say that you're back from answering the door. Please continue filling out the form that you were working on.
Okay, so I’m on this number and I have no idea what it’s supposed to look like. Does it matter? I mean if I was doing it for real I would know what it is already? (military ID number)
Use your best judgment, do you think you need to fill this out to move on? It’s not giving me an indication that it is required here so I would just skip it.  Earlier when you asked about answering the door, now knowing that this is here I would click it. (Finish Later)
State: this is interesting, it is telling me it is a pop up, but I actually have to input something here. It’s not a list you have to physically type something in. (replays and screen reader refers to it as a pop up) Same thing with Zip code it is referred to as pop up by screen reader.
Sorry, I’m not talking I’m just going through the form and it’s giving me no problems. 
This is just a pet peeve of mine, it’s reading everything twice. It’s almost like it has 2 labels there. (Select at least on record section) If I tab it goes from check box to check box, but if I am arrowing it reads it twice. I have a little bit of programing; I think it has a label and a tag which is why it reads it twice. If they are fields, I have to type in I tend to tab through those, but if they are check boxes or radio buttons it may not read through the whole thing. So, I will arrow through those so that I don’t miss anything. I was listening to what it said but not whether or not they were check boxes or radio buttons. I listened the first time, but they are all check boxes so I don’t have to listen to it every time. But, if it said radio buttons I would have listened to all of it. 
Do you ever change your verbosity settings in the middle of a web page. Yes, I did yesterday. In fact, I’m not sure what it is at now, advanced or intermediate. 

### Task 5: (After specify records) Long break in filling out form

Say that you're really hungry and need to take a longer break to make a snack/lunch/dinner. What will you do with the form that you're filling out?
I would hit save and continue later. (Can you go ahead and do that) I hit B for button. Can you show me how you got there faster? JAWS has short cuts like I hit B for button, because I already knew they were down there. 
What do you think would happen if the page was timed out? I hope it will save every so often. Is there anywhere that told you that? No I would hope that it does. I would hit save for later when you see that button you know it will save. I’m not sure that would happen, but I hope it will save that page. It’s straightforward there’s nothing confusing about this. If I went to answer the door, and it turned into a 20 minute thing and it timed me out, it would be my fault I wouldn’t be upset if it didn’t save. It did give me the option to save for later. 
### Task 6: Resume filling out form (again)

OK, pretend that you just finished your snack/lunch/dinner. Now you want to get back to the form you were filling out. How would you do that?
No me if I left and came back and continue where you left, I would pick that button and hope it takes me to where I left off. Did it do that in this case? It did but I didn’t close my browser. If I closed my browser I wouldn’t expect that button to be there, but I would expect once I got back in, it would be here. 
If you go back and go to apple you can see what the page said. Interesting, is the fruit a permanent thing or just for this? No the fruit is just for this thing so I can guide you around easily. 
Very good it went right back to the page I was on before. Continued to additional records information, I have nothing to put in there so I will click continue. Scrolling through review and submit page. I am going back and rereading because it doesn’t tell me if there is a check box until the end which is annoying. Scrolled to signature and filled out then down to check box. I knew that there was one some place. It didn’t matter that it wasn’t there, I knew there was a check box someplace. It is not typically what I am used to (having a check box after signature) “I certify” there is usually a check box associated with it. 
It seems like an experienced JAWS user you are comfortable skipping around, but if something aligns you will go back and listen again. Yes, I guess that is a bad habit, but you can only listen to it for so long before it gets on your nerves. 
Do you ever change the voice? Yes not on JAWS but on my phone I do. I try to find one that is clear, I’m getting a little hard hearing in my old age. This AI thing is amazing. I look forward to the day I can have a document read to me by Jimmy Stewart. It doesn’t matter as long as it’s clear and doesn’t get on my nerves. Some people have their speed turned way up and it’s going a million miles that annoys me worse. I would rather have normal speed and skip through things. 

## Post-Task Interview

1. Overall, about everything on the website in this session...What worked _well_ for you?
I honestly did not have any problems with this page really. When things don’t work well for me is when something my screen reader won’t read. I need it to read like a sighted person sees it. The pictures don’t work for us. Some people have JAWS turned on to forms mode, I start with mine off, then turn it on after I read it. If forms mode is on you can tab through it but you can’t arrow through it. You may not hear the instructions if forms mode is on. It depends on how they’re labeled, yours is labeled really well so I didn’t have any problems. 
So some of the fields in the form here were required to be filled out and others were not. Could you tell that with your screen reader? Absolutely, it had astricts I knew I had to fill out but others did not have them and I knew I could skip it. 
The number you got caught on, did you think you had to fill that out? I wasn’t paying attention and I just thought I had to provide a number. 
Can you go back there? I’m curious if you cut off the screen reader from talking if you can tell if it’s required or not? I know it is a check box, I know I have to do this before I can do anything else.
Something went wrong, can you go back to your browser. Okay now you are back to the prototype. I clicked apple and it took me there. 
If you click through and don’t let it read to you can you tell it’s required?
Go back a few pages. I can’t get back to that one specific page where we started. It said things with an astricts are required. (participant jumped out of prototype using back button) trying the link to go back to previous page. This page you are on has several fields that are required and that aren’t can  you tell which is which? Let me go back and see. “Apartment or unit number” this one isn’t required because there is no astricts and it doesn't say required. I just know that if there are an astricts it’s required. I have no trouble telling what’s required or not. I just don’t listen. I already just assumed it’s all required. 
If you wanted to change it up you could say hey dummy you can skip this. That would change it up and then I would listen to it. 

1. What was _unclear_ or _didn't work well_ for you?

1. What would you like to _change_ or _add_?

1. What kinds of online forms have you filled out before, and how does the process compare to the VA form you filled out today?
This is laid out logically, I don’t mind the continue button, but if you ask my street address and then I have to click continue that annoys me. I would like as much information on one page as possible. I don’t like having to click continue a lot. 
You would prefer to not have to navigate lots of separate pages for the information. What did you feel about this? This didn’t bother me because all the related things are on the same page.  Going  back to the pages they could combine the information on the same page?
Are you an engineer or developer of some sort? No, I have a page that I write, I know just enough to be dangerous. I’m not a professional coder. I was a network engineer for schools that couldn’t afford their own person. 
1. When do you expect the information that you enter into an online form to be saved?
The only real way to be sure is when I say continue later. I would say when I hit continue but there’s no guarantee of that. 
If you walk away without clicking anything, what do you think will happen to what you entered? I hope that when I hit continue it was saved so it would be saved from there.
Is there anything on the interface that indicated anything about saving? The only part is the “continue later” 
Going back to the beginning participant navigates back through the page. Finds statement about saving. The way it reads he will skip to Heading level one causing him to skip over the statement. If it had been below the H1 tag he would have read it. I will arrow down from H1 tag. Other people will tab to start filling out the form, I don’t want to listen to all this every time, I want to listen to as little as possible. It’s on me that I didn’t listen to that, but again if it was under H1 I would have listened to it. 
Going back to the Apple button. Go down next to continue your request, I want to see if it says anything there about saving? This article here tells me everything from here is important  everything above is about page navigation which I don’t need. Scrolling down there is another statement about saving. 
1. If you had a magic wand and could change anything about how we save your information before you submit a form, what would you want?

1. Is there anything else that we haven't talked about that you think I should know?

## Thank You and Closing

Are you still okay if we use any video or audio clips from this session?  Yes

* _(yes / no)_

* _(If participant says yes)_ Is there any part of our discussion that you would NOT want shared in a video clip? No
