# Notetaking for 2025-05 Save in Progress research study

## Warm-up Questions

Let's start with a few questions...

1. I understand you are a Veteran. Is that right? Yes

1. What kind of device are you using today? iPhone
    * What operating system? IOS

1. What web browser do you use? Saffari 

1. I will be sharing a web page link with you during the session. How would you prefer to receive the URL? I could dictate it to you, put it in the Zoom chat, email it to you, or _(for smartphone only)_ text it to you.

    * _(If text or email)_ Could the notetaker please text/email the link now? ([https://bit.ly/4lXVLTV](https://bit.ly/4lXVLTV)) -- after 4 is the lower case letter "L"

### For only assistive tech users

5. What assistive technology are you using right now?

1. How would you rate your level of experience with using a screen _(reader / magnifier)_--beginner, intermediate, advanced, or expert?

1. How long have you been using a screen _(reader / magnifier)_?

1. Have you ever shared your screen in Zoom while using a screen _(reader / magnifier)_?

1. Is there anything else that we can do to support you during this session?

### For everyone

10. What VA benefits, if any, do you have experience with? VA loan, and VA hospital.

1. Have you ever filled out a VA form online before?
Yes.
    * If so, can you tell me about your most recent experience? How did it go?
Recently, there was one for travel reimbursement. I have done it 3 or 4 times one was kicked back because I had done it wrong. I had an appointment scheduled for a Friday, but I got a call on that Thursday so I went on Thursday. But the voucher still said Friday. I didn’t know what to do with that or how to change the date. I took some time and sat down to figure out how to fix it. I resubmitted it, that was just last week so I’m waiting for the response on that one. The other ones the information was already loaded, so I didn’t have to do anything. The one that was kicked back showed the appointment for Friday, and it actually showed I had not shown up. 
For the ones that were okay, what kind of information did you have to enter if any? I can’t remember off the top of my head. I remember it brought up the maps from my home to the VA so it made it even easier for me to determine the miles. 
## User Tasks

### Task 0: Share screen

### Task 00: Open prototype

*Note to Chantel: During the user tasks, please especially try to record any comments about their **progress in filling out the form, saving their work, and their reactions to any error messages they see***

### Task 1: Form intro page

I'd like you to take a look at this page, and then use it to get your military records.

### Task 2: Fill out form

Please fill out this form to request your own military records, but I want you to use fake details so you don't share your personal information with me.
The place of birth, the city and state, I am used to the city and state being separate. I am wondering if I need to put a comma or just click continue. I have my social security number memorized, but I don’t know how many numbers to put in, would it stop me if I put in too many? 
### Task 3: (After enter SSN) Short break in filling out form

Pretend that your doorbell just rang, and you want to jump up to answer it. What will you do with the form that you're in the middle of filling out? I wouldn’t push finish later I would put my phone down and answer the door. I wouldn’t be thinking about if it timed me out, I guess I would find out when I get back. I would be mad if it timed me out. 

### Task 4: Resume filling out form

OK, now let's say that you're back from answering the door. Please continue filling out the form that you were working on. Noticed that on this screen there was a drop down for the state that wasn’t on the previous screen. 

### Task 5: (After specify records) Long break in filling out form

Say that you're really hungry and need to take a longer break to make a snack/lunch/dinner. What will you do with the form that you're filling out?
I plan on eating without working on the form at the same time. I would finish later. 
At some point about 30 minutes you will be signed out, what do you think would happen to the information you entered? It will be saved under my VA app but I’m not sure where. Because it said my information would be saved and deleted after a month. 
Have you ever saved a form before? I think I have for something I did for my son, but I didn’t have all the information. So yes, I have redone a form before.
Do you remember where you went when you tried to finish it? No, I’m not going to lie to you. 
How do you use VA.Gov? I don’t use it on the browser, I use the app. If I do use the browser I go to the homepage. 
### Task 6: Resume filling out form (again)

OK, pretend that you just finished your snack/lunch/dinner. Now you want to get back to the form you were filling out. How would you do that?
Going to mango to mimic logging out. I am wondering if there is a way to resume the form from this page. Scrolls to form and continue application. Is that where you want me to go? Yes, I’m just trying to simulate what would happen if you logged out.
Regional office name I am unfamiliar with, it says optional so I would continue. The one I selected is highlighted. 
What did you say was highlighted? The OMPF I guess I can select more than one option; I wanted to make sure what I chose was highlighted. 
Going through I type my name and submit request. 
## Post-Task Interview

1. Overall, about everything on the website in this session...What worked _well_ for you?
Besides the verbal instructions you gave me, everything went good, but the verbal was helpful. Sometimes when I have technical difficulties, I can call the help desk and they guide me through, so you helping me is useful. Verbal assistance when I am doing something for the first time helps me. 
Do you have any comments about the page you landed on when you logged back in? It was easy to find where I needed to be. I didn’t comment because it was easy for me. If it’s easy I don’t comment, but if I’m like ahh, then I complain. 
Have you used other forms outside the VA and it puts you back at the beginning? Yes. Most of the time the information is still there I just need to click next until the page I need to be on. This page was smooth.
Is there anything else that worked well for you? I liked the drop-down box for the state. The first page didn’t have the drop-down box for the state. For me it’s a little easier to have the drop-down box. 
For place of birth you commented you weren’t sure if you should put a comma? Yeah, I wasn’t sure if I had to put a comma, if I didn’t, would it bump me back.
And for the Social security I put in exactly 9 but I didn’t know what it would do if I put in more.  (Do you want to try it?) Sure, I put too many in it says dashes allowed it put the one in but not the other. I would like to see the second dash. 
1. What was _unclear_ or _didn't work well_ for you?
Everything seemed pretty clear. The hardest part was finding records, but that was on me. 
1. What would you like to _change_ or _add_?

1. What kinds of online forms have you filled out before, and how does the process compare to the VA form you filled out today?
Before I got out, evaluation forms and leave forms, that was very difficult. 
How do those compare to the VA forms? VA forms are much easier.
1. When do you expect the information that you enter into an online form to be saved?
I would like it as soon as I put it in there. But as soon as I hit next or go to the next page. I would prefer to save as soon as I went to the next screen, if it is all on one page, then as soon as I fill it out. I don’t believe it’s saved until it says save at the bottom or complete. 
Go to personal information page, when do you think your information is saved? Whatever I do to take me to the next page. (Let’s make a new one)
Finish later or continue to save it. (what makes you think that?) Finish later I would think the system would save the information to that point not just because if filled it out, but because that’s what I hope it will do. Or if I didn’t want to stop and clicked continue, I hope it would save it then. 
If you walk away without doing anything what do you think would happen? I would lose it all, just like if it timed out I would have to start over.
Go back to the previous page. Do you see what it says above in the light blue box? What does this mean in your own words? For me if I go to the next page I still need to hit something on the bottom or hopefully it will save. The progress ID number is irrelevant to me. Is there a way to track this number? 
So, you are saying you still have to hit the save to save it?  Yes
And, you’re concerned on how to get back to the page? Yes
And, what is this number? Yeah what do I do with the number. It’s not telling me to write down this number. What’s this number for? Will it change if I go back to finish it?
The in-progress ID number can be used specifically with the call center if you need help. When we went back to the My VA page that number was there too. 
1. If you had a magic wand and could change anything about how we save your information before you submit a form, what would you want?
Common previous information like address, saved to show, but I can make changes if needed. So like a format that I can draw that information from. Like when you go to the doctor they have a list of my medications, and instead of having to provide what I am taking let me remove or add any changes. 
Since you’re logged in the system should know you, and your name and address. Yes right.
1. Is there anything else that we haven't talked about that you think I should know?

## Thank You and Closing

Are you still okay if we use any video or audio clips from this session? Yes

* _(yes / no)_

* _(If participant says yes)_ Is there any part of our discussion that you would NOT want shared in a video clip? All of it is fine. 
