# Notetaking for 2025-05 Save in Progress research study

## Warm-up Questions

Let's start with a few questions...

1. I understand you are a Veteran. Is that right? Yes

1. What kind of device are you using today? Laptop
    * What operating system? Windows

1. What web browser do you use? Firefox
Do you have chrome? I do not, I doesn’t work for me.
1. I will be sharing a web page link with you during the session. How would you prefer to receive the URL? I could dictate it to you, put it in the Zoom chat, email it to you, or _(for smartphone only)_ text it to you.

    * _(If text or email)_ Could the notetaker please text/email the link now? ([https://bit.ly/4lXVLTV](https://bit.ly/4lXVLTV)) -- after 4 is the lower case letter "L"

### For only assistive tech users

5. What assistive technology are you using right now?

1. How would you rate your level of experience with using a screen _(reader / magnifier)_--beginner, intermediate, advanced, or expert?

1. How long have you been using a screen _(reader / magnifier)_?

1. Have you ever shared your screen in Zoom while using a screen _(reader / magnifier)_?

1. Is there anything else that we can do to support you during this session?

### For everyone

10. What VA benefits, if any, do you have experience with? Disability and medical.

1. Have you ever filled out a VA form online before?
I have and it’s a real pain so hopefully this will be streamlined.
    * If so, can you tell me about your most recent experience? How did it go?
I can’t really remember, I think I had to fill out a form to increase as a disability. It was a real pain, it takes a long time, you have to copy and paste, it’s not very fun to do. 
Did it get to where it needs to go? It did, I think everything I have had to do has, and I received an email saying it has been submitted. 
## User Tasks

### Task 0: Share screen

### Task 00: Open prototype

*Note to Chantel: During the user tasks, please especially try to record any comments about their **progress in filling out the form, saving their work, and their reactions to any error messages they see***

### Task 1: Form intro page

I'd like you to take a look at this page, and then use it to get your military records.
I think I have to sign in to access my records so click on sign in. I’m on the personal records page, click on start your request. It’s telling me the request will be saved and now it’s asking me for verification and click continue.
### Task 2: Fill out form

Please fill out this form to request your own military records, but I want you to use fake details so you don't share your personal information with me.
It indicated his social security number was invalid. That’s good. I didn’t put my actual social security number so I have to provide a VA file number. 
### Task 3: (After enter SSN) Short break in filling out form

Pretend that your doorbell just rang, and you want to jump up to answer it. What will you do with the form that you're in the middle of filling out?
Considering it’s only me I would close the laptop and then go check the door. If I was in a public place I would not have my laptop out with my information showing.  
### Task 4: Resume filling out form

OK, now let's say that you're back from answering the door. Please continue filling out the form that you were working on.
Participant closed the lid, came back and reopened and continued filling out the information. Wow that’s a lot to do. For me right now it’s the same length and verbiage, but I guess it’s important if I am trying to get an important document. 
### Task 5: (After specify records) Long break in filling out form

Say that you're really hungry and need to take a longer break to make a snack/lunch/dinner. What will you do with the form that you're filling out? Since I’m taking a longer break and I do see the option to finish later I would click on that. Ok cool it says my request has been saved, and I think I would leave this page up on my computer for the time being. 
If you were doing this in a public place like the library what would you do? If it was my laptop I would take it with me. If it was a public computer I would sign out. 
It will timeout after 30 minutes what do you think will happen? I hope it will save, like other times that I have used VA forms. 
### Task 6: Resume filling out form (again)

OK, pretend that you just finished your snack/lunch/dinner. Now you want to get back to the form you were filling out. How would you do that?
If the browser is still up I would click continue your request and hope it takes me back to where I was. I’m on 3 of 6 record request that’s good. I think I actually left off on page of 4 out of 6 but it took me to 3 but I didn’t have anything on 4 so that’s probably why. I would prefer to be 4 out of 6 but that’s okay. It’s not a bother. 
Going back to the pervious page. Were you keeping track of what page you were on before, or just because it brought you back to 3 our of 6? I was keeping track, I think they have had this on other forms, but I can’t remember. 
It gives me a review and submit so I can look over all the information to make sure it’s correct. I do like this, I can’t remember if it was an option on other forms. With the VA if you submit something wrong it’s a process, so this saves a lot of headache. 
## Post-Task Interview

1. Overall, about everything on the website in this session...What worked _well_ for you?
I think it’s pretty streamlined, there’s not too much words on there, and it shows the number of pages. It wasn’t that much of a pain. I like the option to review that’s important to me. I see this option as even doing it on a phone if you have to, I think the way it works you could use any platform. 
1. What was _unclear_ or _didn't work well_ for you? I can’t think of a negative at the moment. 

1. What would you like to _change_ or _add_? Nothing.

1.	What kinds of online forms have you filled out before, and how does the process compare to the VA form you filled out today? Taxes, buying stuff that’s not on Amazon you have to fill out a bunch of information, car registration, basically anything you can do online. I would say the real pain is I don’t have a printer if you have to do signatures, if you are on a computer. I don’t know if the VA could work on that when you need a written signature. 
So, when a signature is required by the VA or do you print it our or use the mouse? I have printed it out or used a little tablet.
On this form when you typed your name at the end this served as a signature. No, this is fine. I like this but some forms require a signature. This is easier for some disabled veterans.
Are there any other differences in some of the other non VA forms that you’ve filled out that you think are different from this form that you filled out? This one is better, it has the same look but tweaked, this is better, more user friendly. This is better. This is a lot less teeth pulling. 
1. When do you expect the information that you enter into an online form to be saved?
Assuming when I have the option to continue on later or if something closes hopefully it was saved. But in my experience unless I manually save it doesn’t save. I don’t think the VA website does that. If it closes out due to a time out it should save. I have had times when it closes out it doesn’t save.
When do you think your information would be saved for this form? When I clicked on finish later. If I didn’t and my computer crashed it didn’t save anything. 
If you did not click finish later and walked away, and you came back what do you think would happen to the information you entered? It wouldn’t be there, I know the way the internet is, it’s somewhere but not where I need it to be. I would expect to have to start from the beginning.

1.	If you had a magic wand and could change anything about how we save your information before you submit a form, what would you want? I assume whatever I put in, it wouldn’t go away and only authorized people see my information and it not bet stolen. 
So saving whatever you input. If you are in the middle of typing something you would like it to save if you walk away? Yes?
Did you see anything on the pages that you were looking at that talked about saving, that gave you any ideas as to whether information would be saved or not? I’m looking and no I don’t see anything. (Do you recall seeing anything on previous pages?) No, I don’t think so. 
Okay, can you go to the top of the page and click on apple. This should be the page that came up when you logged in. Can you take a look at it? It does show last save, I don’t know if it’s because  I saved it later or it did it manually. 
Can you click start a new request. Take a look at this page and see if it says anything about saving? Oh, “We’ll save your request on every change. You can stop anytime, and come back later to finish.” Oh, okay. I don’t remember seeing that/
So, when, you went through the pages kind of quickly. When you got to this page you started filling this out you didn’t look at other places on the page. Yeah, I think for me I kind of saw which best describes you, and focused on this part.  Maybe for that I would make it bigger, that’s kind of small print. My eyes went straight to the big print. Usually I read the small print I can’t believe I skipped that. My brain didn’t process it and I skipped over it. I’m trying to think a little bit more of a way to make that stand out. 
If we change the form to make it look some other way, are you still going to skip over it and go straight to the form? I think in my experience I have filled out a lot of these and I just want to get it over. I think because I’m used to doing it I just went straight to answering the questions. 
Can you read this now that you know it’s there and tell me what you think it means? Anything I do to it, it will save in time and place. So, if something happens whatever I typed should be saved.
So, given your interpretation of what you just said. If I ask you again if you were filling out the form, and walked away and came back later do you think the information you filled out would still be there? With what that just said Yes. 
It’s on us to communicate better that it is saving. I will say the placement is good, maybe have it on every page. My memory is spotty to have it every page. It might be annoying but it’s there. 
We are trying to strike a balance between being informative and annoying. Maybe have a pop up so someone has to manually close it. They would be annoyed once and then could click out to the box to continue. If they read the box and closed it, that would be on them. That would work for me to read it once and then close it.  
Knowing the forms save everything you type, would you feel less pressure to complete a form right away? For me personally, I might get sidetracked and forget about it. 

1. Is there anything else that we haven't talked about that you think I should know? I can’t think of anything right now. 

## Thank You and Closing

Are you still okay if we use any video or audio clips from this session? Yes

* _(yes / no)_

* _(If participant says yes)_ Is there any part of our discussion that you would NOT want shared in a video clip? No
