# Notetaking for 2025-05 Save in Progress research study

## Warm-up Questions

Let's start with a few questions...

1. I understand you are a Veteran. Is that right? Yes

1. What kind of device are you using today? iPhone
    * What operating system? IOS

1. What web browser do you use? Safari

1. I will be sharing a web page link with you during the session. How would you prefer to receive the URL? I could dictate it to you, put it in the Zoom chat, email it to you, or _(for smartphone only)_ text it to you.

    * _(If text or email)_ Could the notetaker please text/email the link now? ([https://bit.ly/4lXVLTV](https://bit.ly/4lXVLTV)) -- after 4 is the lower case letter "L"

### For only assistive tech users

5. What assistive technology are you using right now?

1. How would you rate your level of experience with using a screen _(reader / magnifier)_--beginner, intermediate, advanced, or expert?

1. How long have you been using a screen _(reader / magnifier)_?

1. Have you ever shared your screen in Zoom while using a screen _(reader / magnifier)_?

1. Is there anything else that we can do to support you during this session?

### For everyone

10. What VA benefits, if any, do you have experience with? Health and education.

1. Have you ever filled out a VA form online before? Yes

    * If so, can you tell me about your most recent experience? How did it go?
For GI bill benefits. It went fine and it was on the laptop. The form was surprisingly simple not involved. 
## User Tasks

### Task 0: Share screen

### Task 00: Open prototype

*Note to Chantel: During the user tasks, please especially try to record any comments about their **progress in filling out the form, saving their work, and their reactions to any error messages they see***

### Task 1: Form intro page

I'd like you to take a look at this page, and then use it to get your military records.
The FOIA part is throwing me off. I expect to see about the form first. 
So there’s quite a few things I can request. I don’t know what all these things are or that I could request these things. So it’s a bit more informative to me.  It reminds me prior to the GI bill I applied for the VOC rehab. 
I realize this doesn’t involve my health records at all. I assume this is through the VBA. I see login, I am assuming it’s using login.gov or ID.me.
Should I go ahead and sign in? (Yes). It there me off a little bit it took me to the exact same page which made me feel like I did something wrong. But then I scrolled down and saw start your request. I saw this before we’ll save your request on every change. That’s good to know . I kind of glossed over it on the previous page. It’s good to know if I step away or get logged off my information is saved.   
It throws me off a lot of veteran and myself think of health with the VA. But like I said on the previous page I realized oh yeah this is not health it’s something else. It’s mostly VBA type stuff. 
### Task 2: Fill out form

Please fill out this form to request your own military records, but I want you to use fake details so you don't share your personal information with me.
Social security number, VA file number this throws me off because I’m not sure what the VA file number is. I am guessing I would have to go back through my education records and see if there is a file number on it. But I am guessing this could be a barrier for some people. Should I make something up here? (What would you do?) I would go through my file box and try to find it. (So what would you do if you couldn’t find it?) I would see if I can continue to with out it. Oh I see let me try.
### Task 3: (After enter SSN) Short break in filling out form

Pretend that your doorbell just rang, and you want to jump up to answer it. What will you do with the form that you're in the middle of filling out?
I would just leave this page open if it was going to be quick or if it was going to be longer I would click finish later.
(This is really short) I would just leave it open. 
### Task 4: Resume filling out form

OK, now let's say that you're back from answering the door. Please continue filling out the form that you were working on.
Okay I come back and fill it out. It’s nice that I can pick more than one record. I would have assumed I would have to fill out a different request for each of these. I’m actually kind of curious about some of these. 
So, request your military records. Okay DD214 I was actually wondering about that because I was kind of surprised to know that my military personal file would be here. I was under the impression that the VA and military we separate. I’m doubtful that I can get them here. 
Your experience about the VA trying to get military medical records have not worked very well so your skeptical that you can us the VA to get them? Yes, probably from hearing from other veterans. 
### Task 5: (After specify records) Long break in filling out form

Say that you're really hungry and need to take a longer break to make a snack/lunch/dinner. What will you do with the form that you're filling out?
I would click finish later. It makes me wonder if it will log me out and I have to start over or if I’ll just freeze on this page. Okay. It basically took me out. It says your request has been saved and will expire on July 20. I assume after that I will have to start over. 
### Task 6: Resume filling out form (again)

OK, pretend that you just finished your snack/lunch/dinner. Now you want to get back to the form you were filling out. How would you do that?
Okay I click continue and then I am back to where I left off. Do you have more details I thought that was funny that they would have more information if they couldn’t find my file. So, it said optional then you might not worry about it so much. 
I’m confused with the VA regional office, so I’m going to leave it blank. Reviewing request. Laughs at NOTE: that seems like an unnecessary warning in the case. I don’t see any reason why someone would try to provide incorrect information. I would think a warning for someone trying to get someone else’s information would make more sense. 
This seemed like a fairly simple form. If it did go through, would the message tell me what to expect next? Like we will reply to your request within 7-10 days. A confirmation email, or a number I can call to follow up, or a tracker on the website itself. 
## Post-Task Interview

1. Overall, about everything on the website in this session...What worked _well_ for you?
I think it was the simplicity of it. Some forms get buried in the website, this is easy, I am curious how hard it would be to find this form. But the form itself is simple. It makes me wonder if I needed to include that optional information to help them find me. It gives me a little anxiety. And then like I said a follow up. 
1. What was _unclear_ or _didn't work well_ for you?

1. What would you like to _change_ or _add_?

1. What kinds of online forms have you filled out before, and how does the process compare to the VA form you filled out today?
Recently to get an estimate on some work for the house, and to make a dinner reservation for my anniversary. As far as more professional things, requesting a grant for our school project, that I did a couple times.
How did the process for those compare to the VA form you just filled out? The VA form was cleaner, more professional. The grant form was horrendous and getting an estimate is pretty easy. Forms that I filled out on the VA page are simple and easy to follow. 
1. When do you expect the information that you enter into an online form to be saved?
The cue that I got from finish later was that it would be saved for two months. 
What action do you think you need to take for it to be saved like that? I would have to click finish later, and it will let me start a new form or go back to where I left off.
What do you think to happen to the information that you entered if you didn’t click anything? This page doesn’t have a timer but I am assuming I would get kicked out and it would be deleted and I would have to start over. 
1. If you had a magic wand and could change anything about how we save your information before you submit a form, what would you want?
I would want would be what I’m assuming would happen within 24 hours, I would assume it would be deleted. I am not particular about my information to be guarded as long as my social security number was on there. 
Can you go back to the top of the page. Go to apple and scroll down and click start a new request. The save message what does that mean to you? That’s interesting because it says it’s going to save my information, it doesn’t say that I have to click finish later. Now I’m wondering if I don’t click finish later and got timed out would my information be saved. 
The answer is yes; you don’t have to click finish later. How can we make this clearer? I think what threw me off is having a finish later button. When I first read that I thought it would save, but the finish later made me wonder. I guess finish later closes the form and not the function to save. The banner about saving is clear but the finish later is what threw me off. 
Is there something we could put in the banner or finish later button that would communicate that we are saving it? The phrasing is curious. “We’ll save your request on every change.” When I think about what it says I get it. It’s just kind of curious wording for me. Save and close would be another option for finish later. 
Would save and close confuse you about the saving? Yeah, I said save and close, so you know you are saving and closing where you are at.
If this form were available in the mobile app how likely is it you would use the app to complete it? I would have to be reminded. If it was featured in the app I would use it, because it’s so much easier to so on the app. Like messaging my provider is so simple.
The app keeps you logged in or uses face identification.
The forms you talked about filling out before are those forms easy to enter text on the phone verses the computer with a keyboard. I might think twice about it if it was a long form. But as you saw my phone automatically fills in a lot of information, so if that worked on these forms in the app that would make it easier. I would definitely use it on my phone then. 
1. Is there anything else that we haven't talked about that you think I should know?

## Thank You and Closing

Are you still okay if we use any video or audio clips from this session? Yes.

* _(yes / no)_

* _(If participant says yes)_ Is there any part of our discussion that you would NOT want shared in a video clip? No. 
