# Notetaking for 2025-05 Save in Progress research study

## Warm-up Questions

Let's start with a few questions...

1. I understand you are a Veteran. Is that right? Correct

1. What kind of device are you using today? Computer
    * What operating system? Windows

1. What web browser do you use? Microsoft Edge

1. I will be sharing a web page link with you during the session. How would you prefer to receive the URL? I could dictate it to you, put it in the Zoom chat, email it to you, or _(for smartphone only)_ text it to you.

    * _(If text or email)_ Could the notetaker please text/email the link now? ([https://bit.ly/4lXVLTV](https://bit.ly/4lXVLTV)) -- after 4 is the lower case letter "L"

### For only assistive tech users

5. What assistive technology are you using right now?
Overall I use my apple phone that has AI, I use DaVinci, and a hand held device that slips my memory. DaVinci is a large monitor that magnifies documents. I am using Zoom Magnification (Microsoft Magnification). 300% magnification.
1. How would you rate your level of experience with using a screen _(reader / magnifier)_--beginner, intermediate, advanced, or expert? Advanced

1. How long have you been using a screen _(reader / magnifier)_?
5 years.
1. Have you ever shared your screen in Zoom while using a screen _(reader / magnifier)_?
Yes
1. Is there anything else that we can do to support you during this session? Not that I can think of no. 

### For everyone

10. What VA benefits, if any, do you have experience with? Blind rehab center, physical therapy or recreational therapy, VA health care.

1. Have you ever filled out a VA form online before? Yes. 

    * If so, can you tell me about your most recent experience? How did it go?
It’s fine, I’ve been able to download a PDF reader that gave me the ability to go in and fill out the blanks 
So, you fill out the blanks and then you’re able to save the form and submit it that way? Yes
## User Tasks

### Task 0: Share screen

### Task 00: Open prototype

*Note to Chantel: During the user tasks, please especially try to record any comments about their **progress in filling out the form, saving their work, and their reactions to any error messages they see***
### Task 1: Form intro page

I'd like you to take a look at this page and then use it to get your military records.
I don’t see anything about my military records, it’s saying your benefits, educational benefits, uh home loans. Are you sure you are asking me what you want me to look up? 
Yeah, it should say something about military records. Okay, scrolling through reading out loud. Sign in is that where you want me to go? Yes
Reading through, start your request, okay. 
Can you talk aloud about any thoughts and questions you have? It’s interesting that my DD214 is available through, but if I need a copy of my DD214 I would go to the closest military instillation. I know it would be on record, but it wouldn’t be something I think I could request from there. 
### Task 2: Fill out form
Accidentally clicked continue later. Found his way back to continue request.
Are you using your mouse or keyboard. I am moving up and down with arrows and side to side with the mouse. 
{Social security number} That’s stupid. (what’s stupid?) It’s a security issue that is enabled with all Microsoft or windows products. It blocks out most of your information. [only showing the last 4 digits] He was copying the social security number to put down into the VA number field.
Please fill out this form to request your own military records, but I want you to use fake details, so you don't share your personal information with me.

### Task 3: (After enter SSN) Short break in filling out form

Pretend that your doorbell just rang, and you want to jump up to answer it. What will you do with the form that you're in the middle of filling out? I would leave it in place depending on the security measure that Microsoft or other organizations have. It could do one of two things kick you entirely out or you could save the screen where you are at. Or there would be a key in there that when you come back it’s saved after a time frame. or it could blank the screen. But it says okay come back where you left off. 
So, it’s my home I feel comfortable in my home. So far, the process hasn’t been that difficult, I mean I filled in applications that take you 45 minutes to an hour. And you don’t want to be kicked out and have to start over. So, I would leave it and come back. 
If you fill out a passport if you get timed out you get pissed, because that’s a lot of work and it can be frustrating. How strict are these protocols you can get back in the program and get distracted again and then be kicked out for sometimes 24 hours.
You were talking about all sorts of protocols, is there anything here that tells you what is going to happen? No, I didn’t see anything, I was just going through it quickly. 

### Task 4: Resume filling out form

OK, now let's say that you're back from answering the door. Please continue filling out the form that you were working on.
As we’ve been talking, you noticed that this screen did not go dormant. Yes, for a short break it did not. 
So, can you tell me what you’re thinking here? It’s asking APO, FPO, DPO, and it’s required. I’m not sure why it’s required. I’m not deployed, I know there are some deployed individuals that get VA benefits. 
So, you had selected an option on this page that now makes this required. If you scroll up, I’m not sure if you did this on purpose or not. Yeah, I’m trying to go through this as quickly as possible and I saw I live on a United states (missed the military base part).
So that’s kind of standing out here. The military and the VA are not really supposed to, transcribe their records. In other words, if I’m in the military and I fall and break a leg it can be classified as service connected. Unless I tell them the VA shouldn’t know. There are some things I don’t want the VA to know about and some things I don’t want the military to know about. (Participant shares a personal scenario for an example) This is a good example because of negative feedback with those particular traumas…(more personal information).
So, you’re concerned about the privacy issue here. That the VA is able to access the Military information, when you assumed they could and should stay separate. 
Another example provided about when information that was shared with the VA was released to affect something the Participant wanted. 
Scrolling through, doesn’t understand why financial records is listed to be released. This is a lot of jargon. Selecting DD214 , what is the difference between military personnel file and the DD214?
### Task 5: (After specify records) Long break in filling out form

Say that you're really hungry and need to take a longer break to make a snack/lunch/dinner. What will you do with the form that you're filling out? It depends on one of two things, the time span that you are allotted or I would go back to finish later. (Say you will be gone for at least a half an hour. what would you do?) I wouldn’t touch finish later I would just wait.
(I’ll just tell you, you’ll be signed out after 30 minutes. What do you think will happen after you’ve been signed out?) That could be either you are signed out and have to start over, or you are signed out and you sign back in and start where you left off. 
I would just leave it open. I left it open while we talked about the other stuff, it hasn’t been a half an hour but it hasn’t given me a count down. 
### Task 6: Resume filling out form (again)

OK, pretend that you just finished your snack/lunch/dinner. Now you want to get back to the form you were filling out. How would you do that?
Participant left it open. [moderator prompted him to click Mango to take him to a different page, to mimic being logged out.]  Participant scrolls through the page.
So, what are you looking at here? I’m kind of looking at… I’m not really sure what I am looking at. I’m looking at the main page for the VA. I really don’t see where (next appointment). 
(Can you scroll past next appointment?) Okay there’s forms, okay, here we go, continue application. There we go. 
So, you passed this once before. I see your screen says benefit applications but it wasn’t until you scrolled over to the right that you saw you were in the right place. Yeah, this continue application could be larger. (Because you missed that before) Right. 
Okay that first page throws you off. What do you mean? It went from page 1 to page 4. Can you go back in your browser to the previous page. Oh, page 3 of 6. It did take me back to where I was, the first thing I saw was a check box, and thought I completed this page it should take me to the next page. 
I noticed you scroll down a lot and scroll to the right sometimes, what is it you’re seeing when you move to the right? I am reading the rest of what it says. (So, when you want to finish reading something you scroll to the right?) Right.
Input a different name from the original name causing an error. It told me where I screwed up which was helpful.
## Post-Task Interview

1. Overall, about everything on the website in this session...What worked _well_ for you?

1. What was _unclear_ or _didn't work well_ for you?

1. What would you like to _change_ or _add_?

1. What kinds of online forms have you filled out before, and how does the process compare to the VA form you filled out today?

1. When do you expect the information that you enter into an online form to be saved?
Right now the way it’s set up there is no time that you would be logged out all you can do is submit and leave for next time.
It’s constantly being saved anything that you type into the computer. From what I see now if you shut your computer down you can come back and finish where you left off.
What makes you think that? Nothing on this form. Basically the save for later or continue on at the bottom of the screen. (S0, you’re assuming the finish later button would save that for you.) Yes.
I’m not sure how that would work if you are working on multiple forms? Does it show you a list of all the forms you have been working on? The answer is yes, if you go to my VA and you are in the middle of working on multiple forms it would give you a link for each form. 
1. If you had a magic wand and could change anything about how we save your information before you submit a form, what would you want?

1. Is there anything else that we haven't talked about that you think I should know?

## Thank You and Closing

Are you still okay if we use any video or audio clips from this session? Yes

* _(yes / no)_

* _(If participant says yes)_ Is there any part of our discussion that you would NOT want shared in a video clip? No
