# Notetaking for 2025-05 Save in Progress research study

## Warm-up Questions

Let's start with a few questions...

1. I understand you are a Veteran. Is that right? Oh yeah!

1. What kind of device are you using today? Desktop
    * What operating system? Windows

1. What web browser do you use? I usually use Brave, but I’ll use chrome for you. Brave is an add on through google, that cuts out ads. 

1. I will be sharing a web page link with you during the session. How would you prefer to receive the URL? I could dictate it to you, put it in the Zoom chat, email it to you, or _(for smartphone only)_ text it to you.

    * _(If text or email)_ Could the notetaker please text/email the link now? ([https://bit.ly/4lXVLTV](https://bit.ly/4lXVLTV)) -- after 4 is the lower case letter "L"

### For only assistive tech users

5. What assistive technology are you using right now? JAWS for windows. I have hearing aids that connect to JAWS so I can hear it better. 

1. How would you rate your level of experience with using a screen _(reader / magnifier)_--beginner, intermediate, advanced, or expert? Between intermediate and advanced.

1. How long have you been using a screen _(reader / magnifier)_? Started in 1996 with JAWS so almost 30 years. (Other screen readers before JAWS)

1. Have you ever shared your screen in Zoom while using a screen _(reader / magnifier)_? Oh yeah.

1. Is there anything else that we can do to support you during this session? I guess we will find out if we run into problems.

### For everyone

10. What VA benefits, if any, do you have experience with? Medical, trying to get disability. Training sessions connected to blind rehab. 

1. Have you ever filled out a VA form online before? The ones that I have tried are really a mess. Even secure messaging is not easy there is a lot of glitches. I have been trying to do travel pay, and that’s a mess. Usually I do offline forms, I have someone do it for me. I’m totally blind I don’t do paper. 

    * If so, can you tell me about your most recent experience? How did it go? In the last 6 weeks or so trying to get travel reimbursement. I have problems with secure messaging, it throws me out. 
The last time you tried to get travel pay, did you get it submitted? I thought I had but it came back denied. I even had my grandson help me and it was denied then too.  

## User Tasks

### Task 0: Share screen

### Task 00: Open prototype

*Note to Chantel: During the user tasks, please especially try to record any comments about their **progress in filling out the form, saving their work, and their reactions to any error messages they see***

### Task 1: Form intro page

I'd like you to take a look at this page, and then use it to get your military records.
Are the fruits there for a reason? No they are just for my use if you need help. 
Looks like you’ve got quite a bit of stuff on here that you’re making available through this page. Do I have to use my ID.me to sign in on this?  Not your own, this prototype will sign you in without having to. I really hate having to go through that at the top of the page every time you change pages. “Link start your request” I’m assuming this will actually do something when I click on this one. (Okay go ahead)
### Task 2: Fill out form

Please fill out this form to request your own military records, but I want you to use fake details so you don't share your personal information with me.
Who do you want me to be, just make up one? Just make one up.
Goes through filling out form. Enters social security number and struggles. The system doesn’t like what he came up with. I have seen where they have a check built in to see if they are real numbers. 
Can you try entering that again for curiosity? The social security number went through, Invalid entry VA file number (participant had inserted a letter and did not realize it). Going through several times before the facilitator pointed out there was a letter in the VA file number section.  Screen reader identified that he had put an “E”--something that JAWS does is you can use the “E” to jump to the next entry field, in this case the “E” was entered in the field instead of moving him to the next entry field. After resolving this, the social security number came back as invalid again. 
So, what happened with that? I got a little frustrated, my fingers don’t always work right and I usually hear any mistakes. But, between listening it, listening to you, and listening to the program getting frustrated I didn’t catch that until I slowed down and looked at what was actually there. The fact that I put an error in one field caused the whole screen to be invalidated. 
Yeah, you had a few errors in the social security number field and you corrected them, but because you had an error in the next field that you didn’t realize. (Right) You still thought maybe it was in the social security field. Right that’s the only thing I thought that I had entered. 
So, when you had an error in the VA file number field, was it saying anything about the social security field? It was just saying error, invalid, it didn’t say which was invalid. 

### Task 3: (After enter SSN) Short break in filling out form

Pretend that your doorbell just rang, and you want to jump up to answer it. What will you do with the form that you're in the middle of filling out?
I would just turn my keyboard of and let it sit. I don’t know if you have a timeout on this that would be something that could erase everything. Rarely I see a pause function. Being the first time, I probably wouldn’t take the time to look for it. If I have been in here before and I had seen it then I would use that. So, I would just turn the keyboard off.
What do you mean to turn the keyboard off? I have a remote keyboard. When you turn it off it locks all the keys, so I don’t accidentally type anything in. 
Do you do that every time that you leave the computer? Probably 90% of the time.

### Task 4: Resume filling out form

OK, now let's say that you're back from answering the door. Please continue filling out the form that you were working on.
I would probably check a few lines to see where I was at and resume. Country is required and I missed it before. I don’t remember seeing that come up at first. (Struggled to fill in country) Sometimes I get going a little too fast, I might have skipped it. That is something I have seen on other VA forms it will skip something and then you go down to the end and it says you missed something. Sometimes I have to go through the form a few times. 
Can you go back a page I want to see something. (Back to Social Security page) Fills out and continues to next page. I may have just skipped down to the first entry field.
So, in this case it says United States, did it also say the name of the field? Yes, I think it’s saying United States because I already prefilled it. Let’s see, yeah it remembered what I had previously filled. 
Can you go back an delete the United States? I don’t think it’s going to let me. 
Okay. You didn’t hear it the first time, but you did this time? I think I heard enter address and I skipped down there. I just keystroked down to that field.
What is the keystroke you use? I usually just use a down arrow. You can use a tab, it will jump line by line, we have a function that brings up all the headings or links. Normally I am more careful, but you’ve got so much of what I have seen before I am going faster.
If there is an error like this, how would you like to be notified about an error? There is a lot of repeating it is reading everything twice. [Can you play that again so I can hear it] It’s repeating the data entry fields twice. There’s a lot of redundance on this. I don’t see this on all the VA websites but some. They are slowly cleaning it up. 
Does finish later mean I can walk away from it? [What do you think?] I don’t know it could mean I am quitting for a little while or it could mean keep going but finish this page later.
You can try it and see. Okay so it gives me a page that I can come back and click continue. It’s jus says finish later it doesn’t say (unable to make out what was said) If I’m reading this again it does say finish later, am I quitting or skipping this page?
Is there something we could call it? Maybe stop and return later. Something that says I’m not doing anything after I click this button. I may not have some information on me, and I may want to skip this part and fill out later. Usually not on government forms but sometimes it is. 
Can I ask you a question? As you were going through that some things were being read twice. Is that what you were talking about? Yes. Everywhere that says information to make a choice it’s going to read it and then read it again. 
So, when you were reading the options, how did you navigate in JAWS? Just the down arrow. (Is there any other way to navigate these options that might give different results not duplicating them?) Let me try something, that is using the “X” which is go to the next check box and that is not double reading. 
So, did you figure out how to request your military records? Yes I clicked my DD214 the first one on the list. That’s a pretty impressive list.
### Task 5: (After specify records) Long break in filling out form

Say that you're really hungry and need to take a longer break to make a snack/lunch/dinner. What will you do with the form that you're filling out?
I would do the same thing I did when I go to the door. I know a lot of places have a timer, I would go to the one that says stop now. Sort of a save and continue later. (Is there anything here that would do that?) Yeah, the finish later button. 
What is it you asked JAWS to go to? I told it to find some sequence of letters.  
### Task 6: Resume filling out form (again)

OK, pretend that you just finished your snack/lunch/dinner. Now you want to get back to the form you were filling out. How would you do that?
I can continue here, I don’t know if it takes me to where I stopped. (Do you want to test it?) Not really. It’s going to do one of two things, when I log back in it would either jump me right back to the last page I was on, or it would make me go through the form again. Maybe say stop here and start back later. 
Is there anything on these pages that says what would happen or are you just speculating? I just speculated.
You’re not real sure what will happen when you go back? Well you know last time we tried it, it took me back but I didn’t leave for a long time. Last time I didn’t log out. 
Let’s try. How do you normally log out? I close the browser and go back in. (proceeds to do so) 
You didn’t actually log all the way off. Can you go to the fruit buttons and click lemon? So, now you are logged off, now you can do whatever you want to try to log back in and try this. (left the browser again) You are not logged in so how would you do that from this page? I would go to sign in button. Oh, continue your request that’s encouraging. It went back to the last page I was working on. It remembered what I had in there before. That’s good. 
So based on that, what do you think the finish later button does? You wanted to know what would happen if you logged off? Yes, it didn’t matter, it went back to where I left off. 
Additional records information section. Can you tell me what you’re thinking? Yeah, I’m thinking about my time, is there anything to add. Maybe they have something oddball that would only apply to me. 
Expand all, it says expand all accordions button collapse. It makes me think of back in the day all the file folders. 
Submit form. I missed the check box. Usually, it is presented before the name. Struggling to get past name. There is no label for the field just a click. 
## Post-Task Interview
You use the arrow key, a lot. Do you ever use forms mode in JAWS? It automatically goes into forms mode and that’s where I type “E” for edit field “X” to the nest check box or “B” to go to the button and I do that a lot. But, as we saw today it’s too easy to skip through stuff on the form, but this was a new form so I used the arrow so I don’t miss anything. 
1. Overall, about everything on the website in this session...What worked _well_ for you?

1. What was _unclear_ or _didn't work well_ for you?

1. What would you like to _change_ or _add_?

1. What kinds of online forms have you filled out before, and how does the process compare to the VA form you filled out today?

1. When do you expect the information that you enter into an online form to be saved?
I had not seen any consistency. Some of them if you don’t complete the whole form it’s lost. Sometimes I do it myself an auto save. This is doing a good thing it’s saving everything when I go to the next screen.
Is there anything here that gives you any indication it’s doing that? When you hit the finish later it said your info would be saved for two months so that’s encouraging.
Can I show you something? Can you go back to the very first screen? Click on start a new request. Starting over will delete your in-progress request. That’s good to know. Going back to the start. Missed the part about saving progress. 
Is that something you missed, or did you not hear it? I probably skipped right past it. 
Going back again showing above the start your request is a line about saving your request. 
So it looked like the focus was on there but you skipped ahead. Probably I was ready to get to work. I don’t always do that, but I know we are on limited time so I try not to take up too much time. 
1. If you had a magic wand and could change anything about how we save your information before you submit a form, what would you want?

1. Is there anything else that we haven't talked about that you think I should know?

## Thank You and Closing

Are you still okay if we use any video or audio clips from this session? Yes

* _(yes / no)_

* _(If participant says yes)_ Is there any part of our discussion that you would NOT want shared in a video clip? No
