# Notetaking for 2025-05 Save in Progress research study

## Warm-up Questions

Let's start with a few questions...

1. I understand you are a Veteran. Is that right? Yes.

1. What kind of device are you using today? iPhone
    * What operating system? IOS

1. What web browser do you use? Saffari.

1. I will be sharing a web page link with you during the session. How would you prefer to receive the URL? I could dictate it to you, put it in the Zoom chat, email it to you, or _(for smartphone only)_ text it to you.

    * _(If text or email)_ Could the notetaker please text/email the link now? ([https://bit.ly/4lXVLTV](https://bit.ly/4lXVLTV)) -- after 4 is the lower case letter "L"

### For only assistive tech users

5. What assistive technology are you using right now?
Voiceover
1. How would you rate your level of experience with using a screen _(reader / magnifier)_--beginner, intermediate, advanced, or expert? I’m pretty advanced. 

1. How long have you been using a screen _(reader / magnifier)_?
Since 2010-2011.
1. Have you ever shared your screen in Zoom while using a screen _(reader / magnifier)_?
Yes.
1. Is there anything else that we can do to support you during this session?
I don’t think so.
### For everyone

10. What VA benefits, if any, do you have experience with?
Quite a few. Education, adaptive housing, medication, claims. Disability claims. 
I do a lot of things on the app. If I can’t do it on the app, if I have time I will go online. 
1.	Have you ever filled out a VA form online before? Yes.

    * If so, can you tell me about your most recent experience? How did it go?
I filled out one through Veteran usability studies.  Then recently with educational benefits for one of my daughters. I think with the research you guys are doing it has come a long way. I haven’t had any problems with forms online over the past 4-6 years. 
The educational benefits for your daughter that was a VA form? Yes, it went well there were not a lot of questions. There wasn’t a lot of stuff on there to distract you on the form. Sometimes there’s a lot of stuff on forms that you can be like what is that. It was easy to get through I did it swiftly.
And you did that on the computer or your phone? I did it on the phone. (you were able to submit it and it went through?) yes.

## User Tasks

### Task 0: Share screen

### Task 00: Open prototype

*Note to Chantel: During the user tasks, please especially try to record any comments about their **progress in filling out the form, saving their work, and their reactions to any error messages they see***

### Task 1: Form intro page

I'd like you to take a look at this page, and then use it to get your military records.
This page is just giving me general information I have to go to another page to 
Do I have to sign in? It will be easy it’s a prototype. 
Sign int to start my request. Yes, you can do that. 
Scrolling through is this the same information that’s on the first page. (Yeah) I thought I had signed in. okay so we signed in. Start your request. Okay.
Can you pause for a minute? When you were on the previous page after you logged in you said it seemed like the same page. Then you continued onto the bottom and went on. Do you have any comments? Yeah it was repetitive, it said the same information instead of going straight to the first question. It said sign in to start your request, it should have taken you to the first question. 
That’s repetitive right here, on the first page you already told us how to request for someone else. This, right here could be omitted. I already chose in the beginning that I was requesting my own personal record. This question could be omitted off this page. 
Scrolling through that seems pretty smooth.
Can you describe how you interact with this page, how were you scrolling through the page? I’m swiping and it goes to the next thing on the page. (Clicking continue without filling out form.) I’m swiping to the left to hear. I guess it’s not going to let me continue unless I put something in? Yes. 
### Task 2: Fill out form

Please fill out this form to request your own military records, but I want you to use fake details, so you don't share your personal information with me.
I wish I could talk but that’s okay. 
Can I ask you a question? What do you mean I wish I could talk? When I have my headphones in I am not able to talk into my microphone, so that it fills it out for me.
Do you ever use voiceover to fill out forms? Sometimes, not for VA.gov unless I’m really confident or its really short. But, different online forms I do. But not for this serious form.
Would you use it on here if you were on your own? No not for this form this is a serious form. 

### Task 3: (After enter SSN) Short break in filling out form

Pretend that your doorbell just rang, and you want to jump up to answer it. What will you do with the form that you're in the middle of filling out?
You can save it with finish later. (Do you want to do that?) No I wouldn’t finish later because that would probably take a second, and this is important. If I did have an interruption I would click finish later and then come back to it. (Do you want to do that now?) We can.
### Task 4: Resume filling out form

OK, now let's say that you're back from answering the door. Please continue filling out the form that you were working on.
Sign back in and it should be where I left off. I would think it would say continue since it saved. It will start me from where I left off. Clicks continue. I was correct it did put me back where I left off.
How did you know that was going to happen? I’m so used to filling out forms on VA.gov a lot of times it will save and bring you back to where you left off. (So, because what you already know?) Exactly because what I already know.
How did it announce the Country to you? Did it act the same as the state? Yeah it said to double tap the picker. I’m 46 years old and I didn’t know what a picker is. 
So is that not a term you are used to hearing, it that unusual to hear? Yes!
Is it going to make me enter a ZIP code? I tried to use the one that is automatically saved, but it wouldn’t accept it I had to type it in. I have my address and info saved on my phone and usually I can double tap and it enters it in but not on this one. And some forms are like that. Continuing to phone and email address.
### Task 5: (After specify records) Long break in filling out form

Say that you're really hungry and need to take a longer break to make a snack/lunch/dinner. What will you do with the form that you're filling out? 
I would hit finish later. 
### Task 6: Resume filling out form (again)

OK, pretend that you just finished your snack/lunch/dinner. Now you want to get back to the form you were filling out. How would you do that?
Sign back in, to the page, VA.gov. 
So, if you sign back in you would land on a different page. Click on the button above that says mango. This is what you would see if you just logged in. Participant scrolls down to Benefit applications and forms and finds her form. She clicks continue my application. 
Will the fruits be on a regular form, I don’t remember those? Not that’s just for me to help navigate you around. 
Where are you now? I am on the next page. It took me to where I left off and I clicked continue. I’m on 4 of 6 Additional records information. Yeah, so 4 of 6 means I am on page 4.
Up until now, did you see anything about the different sections? Is this the first page you heard that on? No
I guess this is for short sentences that you can put in to detail what can help them find your records.
Review and submit, I’m on the last page, Praise the Lord. It says expand and then collapse so you can expand and review each section. It’s going through everything I filled out. It has a button to edit each section if information is wrong. Going down to the bottom, this is the signature. 

## Post-Task Interview

1. Overall, about everything on the website in this session...What worked _well_ for you?

1. What was _unclear_ or _didn't work well_ for you?

1. What would you like to _change_ or _add_?

1. What kinds of online forms have you filled out before, and how does the process compare to the VA form you filled out today?

1. When do you expect the information that you enter into an online form to be saved?
All the information was saved as I went. So, when I put my signature in at the end and completed, that was it all my information was saved.
What makes you think that? When you put in your signature and submit you know that is done. You usually get a confirmation after. 
So you knew it was saved because you heard it and the page was telling you all the information was there. What I am wondering when did you know prior to the review page that it was being saved? I knew because every time you hit finish later and come back it’s there.
What about before you hit finish later? I would think you have to hit finish later, I don’t know if it automatically saves or not?
Is there anything you heard that told you when it saves? Anything I heard in the beginning, I don’t know if it did or not? 
It did, but it was further back, I’m wondering if you remembered anything. I think I remember a paragraph at the beginning. 
1. If you had a magic wand and could change anything about how we save your information before you submit a form, what would you want?

1. Is there anything else that we haven't talked about that you think I should know?

## Thank You and Closing

Are you still okay if we use any video or audio clips from this session? Yes

* _(yes / no)_

* _(If participant says yes)_ Is there any part of our discussion that you would NOT want shared in a video clip? No
