# Notetaking for 2025-05 Save in Progress research study

## Warm-up Questions

Let's start with a few questions...

1. I understand you are a Veteran. Is that right? Yes

1. What kind of device are you using today?  iPhone
    * What operating system?

1. What web browser do you use? Saffari, I use windows as well but they did an update that damaged fusion. 

1. I will be sharing a web page link with you during the session. How would you prefer to receive the URL? I could dictate it to you, put it in the Zoom chat, email it to you, or _(for smartphone only)_ text it to you.

    * _(If text or email)_ Could the notetaker please text/email the link now? ([https://bit.ly/4lXVLTV](https://bit.ly/4lXVLTV)) -- after 4 is the lower case letter "L"

### For only assistive tech users

5. What assistive technology are you using right now? Voiceover

1. How would you rate your level of experience with using a screen _(reader / magnifier)_--beginner, intermediate, advanced, or expert? Between intermediate and advanced.

1. How long have you been using a screen _(reader / magnifier)_? All benefits on VA.gov medical compensation. 

1. Have you ever shared your screen in Zoom while using a screen _(reader / magnifier)_?
Yes, plenty of times. 
1. Is there anything else that we can do to support you during this session?
### For everyone

10. What VA benefits, if any, do you have experience with? Everything on the VA.gov website, medical. 

1. Have you ever filled out a VA form online before? Yes
    * If so, can you tell me about your most recent experience? How did it go?
It was a bad experience, I wanted a new DD214 but it was with the archive, I never could to it. It would just say Button, Button, Button. I’m sure to a sighted person it made sense.
So, your screen reader wasn’t working with it? No it wasn’t.
Did you get your DD214 another way? I had a copy, I just wanted something different for estate planning. 
So, you gave up? Yes I gave up. Now the VA does idMe and that is too difficult for me.
## User Tasks

### Task 0: Share screen
Participant is struggling to share the screen. It is different than normal. 
### Task 00: Open prototype

*Note to Chantel: During the user tasks, please especially try to record any comments about their **progress in filling out the form, saving their work, and their reactions to any error messages they see***

### Task 1: Form intro page

I'd like you to take a look at this page, and then use it to get your military records.
[Scrolling through] There’s a button, signing in, menu, and back.
(Participant got into the Adam chooser and it doesn’t want to let her out)
Back to the page. Scrolling through and states Voiceover is going down the list of things that you can request. Now I’m down here where you verify your account. 
The first question I am going to ask you, is there a menu that I can just click and type in like DD214 like a search? (Umm hum) Okay I didn’t see that. [several Umm hums] I can’t get past sign into your account. Huh! Scrolling through to see if it will read it all. Here we go… it’s just reading everything, I don’t want to stop it this time because it won’t let me go down to the bottom. Okay, I made it down to the bottom.
Can you tell me what you were looking for there? I was trying to see what was on the page. A lot of times with our government pages it’s best to go down the page and find out what you can do. It would only read so far then it would stop and go back. So it did that several times and that’s why I didn’t want to stop. That’s why I just let it run the whole page.
What title was it getting stuck on? Let me go back, it’s telling me the different types.
Something I want to share with you that I have heard is that a lot of government websites aren’t working with safari anymore and you need to have Google Chrome. It’s getting where it automatically jumps down to the bottom of your iPhone. It’s what we call the dashboard at the bottom of your website where you can go back and go forward and then your little share icon where you share a message and your tabs. This is something that just started in the last few weeks, I have heard a lot of people talking about this too. They do change things after we complain enough. Let’s go back up, what do you want me to do? 
Request your military records. [Scrolling through] well I thought when it listed all those things I could just go down and click on one and it would bring those up, but they’re not clickable links?
Is there something else you can do on this page? There’s  a search. 
You read something about signing in? yeah you gotta sign in, I guess I can’t. (you can just not in the normal way) Okay so let me get back down there and you’ll give me a login. [Struggling to get to sign in]
Can I ask how you usually sign in? Usually I just swipe until I get there, but it’s not letting me get there it’s taking me to the dashboard. I can’t get past this top part. Let me try again. Why’s it jumping back. 
So, I’m not sure what’s happening, it may be something to do with your phone on safari. We will figure this out later. In the meantime, can you go to apple. That will get you to pretend that you logged in. Now I’ll tell you, you’re logged in because this is just a prototype. See if you can scroll down this page without it jumping you out. Are you still stuck at the top? 
I can’t get off this, I don’t understand what is happening. 
Can you try refreshing your page? Yeah, let me try that. (it doesn't look like it refreshed) hold on just a second. Okay, Sorry guys I don’t know why it’s not working. 
So, our Riley said it did refresh, you’re just still stuck. Do you know the commands to jump far down the screen. Usually, I can go to the items, and it’ll link it but usually I just right swipe the swipe or take my two fingers and just move it up. 
Riley, I think there might be something wrong with the prototype. What are you seeing right now? I swipe right and it goes directly to the dashboard. (What happens if you double tap where you are on that request? It just says skipped content, context. 
[Participant jumped out of the Zoom call]
(Cindy suggests trying without screen sharing or maybe using chrome) 
Starting without screen sharing. It’s still jumping, I can’t even get off of this request personal. (Okay, do you have chrome installed on your phone.) Yes. [participant closes out of safari] Lost the participant. She states she clicks google chrome and it kicks her off.
Participant got it working in Chrome. [successful screen share and sign in]

### Task 2: Fill out form

Please fill out this form to request your own military records, but I want you to use fake details so you don't share your personal information with me.
Okay so these don’t link to anything? Right
Scrolling through and starts request. [Which best describes you?] That’s something I’ll share with you it doesn’t tell you before that there is radio buttons. (is that an issue with this page) I’m not going to say for this page it’s minute. But it would be nice if it said radio button  as soon as I click on it and then swiped right it would read what it was and then go down. 
Can I ask you, you mentioned that you have used a screen reader for many years. Can I ask what device you use it on? My computer, I use the phone too, I do a lot of dictating. I use voiceover a lot for reading, but when I enter in information I dictate it, the keyboard sometimes I can make it go from J to O but then sometimes I’m slower. (You can use dictation to fill out this form if you need to) If it has the dictation on the keyboard, sometimes it’s not. I’m not as proficient as some of my friends are, I am a one finger typer. [Dictation is not available on this form for her--whether it is because of Zoom or not is unknown].
### Task 3: (After enter SSN) Short break in filling out form

Pretend that your doorbell just rang, and you want to jump up to answer it. What will you do with the form that you're in the middle of filling out?
I will tell you this is one thing I’m happy you guys put on here is finish later. So many don’t have that and you lose everything and have to start over. (So the finish later button is something we are testing and not on the current form). 

### Task 4: Resume filling out form

OK, now let's say that you're back from answering the door. Please continue filling out the form that you were working on.
What did you click on? On this screen I just came back and went down and clicked continue. But if I sign out and come back would it be there? (Try it if you want) 
There is no link to log off, go to the lemon button it will take you to logged off. So now what would you do to log in? I would go to the bottom or go to apple. 
Now you are logged in what would you do? I would go under menu and I would see saved forms. (Okay, try that) Oh, okay I’m going to stop. I don’t know where I would go. Normally I would go to saved forms. (If you go to the menu and click on my VA you might find what you are looking for. But I don’t think this page has that. There doesn’t seem to to be a My VA link you just found a problem we didn’t anticipate. Let me give you a different direction. Go up to the top and click on your name which is the letter C. if you open that menu there should be something that’s my VA. This is not working the way I thought it would. Did you click my VA? Yes 
There is something that’s not working. Let me tell you there would have been something there for you. 
So you’re saying my homepage of VA.gov when it comes up on my app it lists who I am percentage and things like that. Is it going to be under that? 
So when I open it up  the way it is supposed to work it will have a section for claims and appeals. It would have had a section for benefit applications and forms. So in answer to your question it would have had a section for you, but for some reason it’s not cooperating. 

### Task 5: (After specify records) Long break in filling out form

Say that you're really hungry and need to take a longer break to make a snack/lunch/dinner. What will you do with the form that you're filling out?

### Task 6: Resume filling out form (again)

OK, pretend that you just finished your snack/lunch/dinner. Now you want to get back to the form you were filling out. How would you do that?

## Post-Task Interview

1. Overall, about everything on the website in this session...What worked _well_ for you?

1. What was _unclear_ or _didn't work well_ for you?

1. What would you like to _change_ or _add_?

1. What kinds of online forms have you filled out before, and how does the process compare to the VA form you filled out today?

1. When do you expect the information that you enter into an online form to be saved?
I’m hoping it’s saving constantly, every so many seconds. 
When you filled out this form when did you think it was saving? I didn’t normally voiceover it will pop-up saying saving. I would have never known that it was saving.
The finish later button do you think it was saved for later? I don’t know if it did or not. Cause then you are saying I have to go to benefits and forms. 
Was there anything in the pages you went through that told you about saving? No I don’t remember anything. Especially when I was going through the first page. It did say something now that I think about it but I was just so stressed because of Safari. 
I’m going to read you the message, tell me if you remember Voiceover reading it. It was on the page once you logged in and on the citizen page. (Reads the statement) I do remember that now. 
You mentioned that in Word it tells you it’s saving, is that something it does periodically? You can save it but you know it’s saving. You raid it said We’ll so your stating out with the word? 
Yeah, We’ll save your request on every change. You can actually see it if we go to. Let me see what page are you on right now? I don’t know. I’m there it’s after the list so your first one.
So, I’m wondering if you hear it or if you skipped past it? I skipped past it to get to that start your request. I wonder if it should be moved. 
Where would you move it? Under start your request. Right now you have it under the bullets I am just trying to get through. But if you have start your request and have it up under there. I would throw out that word “we’ll”. Maybe if it was down there under start your request, because where you have it I would fly by. None of those bullets are clickable so I am trying to get down there to see how I am going to do this, how is this going to work. So okay start your request, and then say you know we’ll save. But that’s just me. 
Can you click start your request? (Respondent Burden) I don’t know what that means.
You stopped at respondent burden; can you tell me what you thought it would mean? I thought it said start your request it would tell me how long it would take me to do.
Can you click on start your request? Did you see it up here? No, I just went from the question down. I had to scroll back up to hear it. Usually when you do these forms you are focused on completing them and not scrolling back up.
1. If you had a magic wand and could change anything about how we save your information before you submit a form, what would you want?

1. Is there anything else that we haven't talked about that you think I should know?

## Thank You and Closing

Are you still okay if we use any video or audio clips from this session? Yes

* _(yes / no)_

* _(If participant says yes)_ Is there any part of our discussion that you would NOT want shared in a video clip? No
