# Notetaking for 2025-05 Save in Progress research study

## Warm-up Questions

Let's start with a few questions...

1. I understand you are a Veteran. Is that right? Correct

1. What kind of device are you using today? Phone Samsung Galaxy S 24
    * What operating system? Android

1. What web browser do you use? Chrome

1. I will be sharing a web page link with you during the session. How would you prefer to receive the URL? I could dictate it to you, put it in the Zoom chat, email it to you, or _(for smartphone only)_ text it to you.

    * _(If text or email)_ Could the notetaker please text/email the link now? ([https://bit.ly/4lXVLTV](https://bit.ly/4lXVLTV)) -- after 4 is the lower case letter "L"

### For only assistive tech users

5. What assistive technology are you using right now?

1. How would you rate your level of experience with using a screen _(reader / magnifier)_--beginner, intermediate, advanced, or expert?

1. How long have you been using a screen _(reader / magnifier)_?

1. Have you ever shared your screen in Zoom while using a screen _(reader / magnifier)_?

1. Is there anything else that we can do to support you during this session?

### For everyone

10. What VA benefits, if any, do you have experience with?
GI Bill, VA home loan, Health care
1. Have you ever filled out a VA form online before? Yes.

    * If so, can you tell me about your most recent experience? How did it go?
CHAMP VA for, I had to do for my wife and my kids. Electronic form that you print and mail it or fax it in. You can’t submit on line. I think I gave up, and called the 800 number and did it over the phone. 
Was the person on the other end filling out the form and asking you questions as you did it? Yeah, it was a 10-59… Reporting change.
I did the VA loan, but it was mostly filled in for me. 
How did you fill that out? I think it was DocuSign.  I’m looking at the form for CHAMP VA, it is printable but you have to fax it. 
Have you ever filled out a form where you were in a web browser? Yeah, travel pay for appointments.
How did that work? It was fine but they took away My HealthE Vet, logging in is difficult. 
Have you been able to log in and fill that travel claim out? Yeah, it’s not been too bad. It’s easy to do on a government computer. 
Do you work for the government? Yeah. 
You said it’s pretty easy? Yeah, you just respond to the message and answer the questions. The hardest part is the signature on a computer. 
## User Tasks

### Task 0: Share screen

### Task 00: Open prototype

*Note to Chantel: During the user tasks, please especially try to record any comments about their **progress in filling out the form, saving their work, and their reactions to any error messages they see***

### Task 1: Form intro page

I'd like you to take a look at this page, and then use it to get your military records.
Reading aloud as participant scrolls the page. Sign in with a verified account, like I was saying once you get it, it’s fine. Every time I have to do it and create a new password which I don’t like to do because of my personal information. Signs in and starts.
### Task 2: Fill out form

Please fill out this form to request your own military records, but I want you to use fake details so you don't share your personal information with me.
Will leave the VA file number it’s usually the same as my social security number. 
### Task 3: (After enter SSN) Short break in filling out form

Pretend that your doorbell just rang, and you want to jump up to answer it. What will you do with the form that you're in the middle of filling out? I would get up and leave and hope that it doesn’t time out. Of course, if it does then I’m going to have to sign back in and all that trouble. My natural thing would be to leave it. 

### Task 4: Resume filling out form

OK, now let's say that you're back from answering the door. Please continue filling out the form that you were working on. Participant didn’t do anything so he continues read aloud as he proceeds to fill out form. Checks DD214 and military treatment records.

### Task 5: (After specify records) Long break in filling out form

Say that you're really hungry and need to take a longer break to make a snack/lunch/dinner. What will you do with the form that you're filling out?
I would try to save it, maybe hit finish later so I don’t have to start over again.
What do you think will happen? I think it’s gong to save it and take me back to the same spot.
Okay, try that. 
### Task 6: Resume filling out form (again)

OK, pretend that you just finished your snack/lunch/dinner. Now you want to get back to the form you were filling out. How would you do that?
Hopefully I can still get back to the browser, if it didn’t sign me out, I can click the continue the request button. If it did sign me out, I would have to sign in and hope it gives me the same option, but I don’t know.
Have you ever stopped in the middle of a form before? Yes. I had to sign back in and eventually found where it says you have a form to finish completing. 
When typing his name he put his real name instead of the fictional name he provided and he had to fix it. 
## Post-Task Interview

1. Overall, about everything on the website in this session...What worked _well_ for you?

1. What was _unclear_ or _didn't work well_ for you?
What worked well for you. You signed in and I skipped the login process. I liked the list of choices so I could figure out what I wanted. Sometimes I don’t know the terminology so I could look at it and figure that out. I liked the fact that you could save it. Page 4 of 6 I could see the meter up there, it showed me how much was left, I was less anxious. I liked that it was all online I didn’t have to fill out any paper. 
What was unclear or did not work well for you? Everything is good other than typing in the right name. 
Statement of truth page
All this legal mumbo jumbo, I know it has to be there, but people don’t read it they just want to get through the application. I definitely didn’t read it. If I want my documents, I have to agree to it. 
So, you understand why this might be here, but it didn’t really help you. You felt like it was something you didn’t need to see? Yeah
1. What would you like to _change_ or _add_?
I like every app that I can use my fingerprint for would be a plus. I wish it didn’t log you out, or had a remember this device so you don’t have to login. 
1.	What kinds of online forms have you filled out before, and how does the process compare to the VA form you filled out today? 
Everything is online, insurance, mortgage process, DocuSign, bill pay. Registration for kids soccer. It was okay, the most difficult part is having to login. 

1. When do you expect the information that you enter into an online form to be saved?
Personally, I like when it does it by itself. That way it saves all the time that way if it goes down it’s there. 
So, you mean you don’t have to physically save, it does it in the background. 
The need help could be down below the crisis line. I could do more on a page if there was more room to do things on the screen. 
When did you think this form was saving? Whenever I clicked continue.
Is there anything on here that made you think that? No I was just thinking that it would save when I click continue.
Prompting the participant to go back to where it talks about saving. Did you notice this before? No, I didn’t notice it.
Why do you think you didn’t see that? I was focused on the first step.
What could we do to make it noticeable? Maybe put it in red. 
1. If you had a magic wand and could change anything about how we save your information before you submit a form, what would you want?
One I hate when you put something in, and it says you have the wrong format. I hate it when you hit save and then it tells you. 
What would you like to see? Maybe I can’t continue to the next field until it’s correct. This is a 5-minute form other forms are a lot longer, and it waits until the end to tell me I was wrong.
So, you would prefer to know right away instead of when you click continue? Yes.
You were saying before, you wanted to have longer form pages and fewer of them. How would that affect the red text that came up when you were doing something wrong? It would be a lot more scrolling to find it. I would rather have the longer pages, but on the other hand it would be harder if I had an error. That’s why I said if you couldn’t move to the next box.  
So, you would prefer if it checked as you were going along? Yes
1. Is there anything else that we haven't talked about that you think I should know?

## Thank You and Closing

Are you still okay if we use any video or audio clips from this session? Yes

* _(yes / no)_

* _(If participant says yes)_ Is there any part of our discussion that you would NOT want shared in a video clip? When I started putting in any personal information. Like my name and address. Can you blur that out. Like when I started to put it in there my phone may have popped up the information for me. 
