# Notetaking for 2025-05 Save in Progress research study

## Warm-up Questions

Let's start with a few questions...

1. I understand you are a Veteran. Is that right? Yes

1. What kind of device are you using today? iPad
    * What operating system? IOS

1. What web browser do you use? Google Chrome

1. I will be sharing a web page link with you during the session. How would you prefer to receive the URL? I could dictate it to you, put it in the Zoom chat, email it to you, or _(for smartphone only)_ text it to you.

    * _(If text or email)_ Could the notetaker please text/email the link now? ([https://bit.ly/4lXVLTV](https://bit.ly/4lXVLTV)) -- after 4 is the lower case letter "L"

### For only assistive tech users

5. What assistive technology are you using right now?

1. How would you rate your level of experience with using a screen _(reader / magnifier)_--beginner, intermediate, advanced, or expert?

1. How long have you been using a screen _(reader / magnifier)_?

1. Have you ever shared your screen in Zoom while using a screen _(reader / magnifier)_?

1. Is there anything else that we can do to support you during this session?

### For everyone

10. What VA benefits, if any, do you have experience with?
The vision, hearing, medication, medical. 
1. Have you ever filled out a VA form online before?
Yes
    * If so, can you tell me about your most recent experience? How did it go?
It was very detailed, very involved, and took a lot of time to fill it in. One of the things that bothered me is it was very small when you filled in the boxes that you typed in was hard to see. 
When you were typing was the print too small? Yes, it was. (Were you able to see to fill it in) I did, I had to remove my glasses and pinch the screen, It would have been easier to print and fill out but it would have taken longer to get that done. It was to get my ID card. It took 3 times, the first time they didn’t like the picture, the second time I had a hat, and the third time I was smiling. 
So, the failure was due to the picture and not the information you provided. Correct
Was this on a browser? Yes (it wasn’t a PDF) No. 
On what device did you fill it out? The tablet (is that something you normally use to fill out forms online?) Yes.
You said it was tedious, what was tedious? It took a long time, it was repetitive, and when I had to go back I had to start over.
## User Tasks

### Task 0: Share screen

### Task 00: Open prototype

*Note to Chantel: During the user tasks, please especially try to record any comments about their **progress in filling out the form, saving their work, and their reactions to any error messages they see***
I don’t know about the colors up top. I do like the navy blue color,  it’s easy on the eyes. I like the bright red talk to the veteran’s crisis line; I think it should be bigger. I like the fact that it starts out with a good size font, a lot of people have to zoom in and out. 
When you were talking about the form you fille out for your ID were you not able to pinch to Zoom? No it would not work. 
How often do you have to pinch to Zoom? Not too often. 
When you use this page if you need to pinch to Zoom feel free to. 
For signing in it will automatically do it for you, you don’t need  to provide your information. 
I would venture to say I would hit my search and put in my records. (So, search doesn’t work on this, I want you to fill out a form to get your records.) Okay so I need to find that.
After you logged in you were ready to look somewhere else, I’m curious about that? Normally it’s easier to search for something than it is to scroll. Unless it stands out it’s easier to search. 
Going back, it says what type of information you request that’s good. We’ll save your request on every change, that’s good to know. I like the help thing down here, I’ve never seen that before.
It required scrolling to get down here to start your request. I’m curious if you searched what would you expect to see? Well I thought we were on the home page I did not realize we were already where I needed to be. Getting to this page I would expect to scroll here. We signed in and it normally goes to the home page I’m not used to being on a specific page.  So once I got to this page I would start to scroll until I found what I was looking for.
I like that it has one of six, that is nice you never know how many pages that this thing is going to be. You can be 15 pages in and go gosh when this is going to end. It says we’ll save your request after every change that’s great if you get called away you can come back and start where you left off. So if I walk away and come back later that night it will take you back to page 4 where you left off, that is huge, I don’t want to have to refill it out. 
### Task 1: Form intro page

I'd like you to take a look at this page, and then use it to get your military records.

### Task 2: Fill out form

Please fill out this form to request your own military records, but I want you to use fake details so you don't share your personal information with me.
I like the required so you know you don’t have to fill out everything. Some people like to fill out the minimum, like some people don’t want to fill out their initial and they don’t have to here. Date of birth it’s nice to have the drop down, it doesn’t have the day our year, sometimes it has the calendar I like that. Some people don’t know what day they were born on that’s interesting to see. Having a basic calendar, you can pick the day and month then go and click on the year. That might make it less cumbersome, but this is easy as well. Place of birth that’s a good one.  I like that you can type in city and state, you don’t have to select from a list of states. What I like that it does is if I don’t have something in there that is required it will flash up that I didn’t have it. (But you’re not seeing that now?) No. Like if I don’t put a state in there what would it do? No it’s didn’t it says state is required but it didn’t flag me. VA file number that’s interesting, I don’t know mine at all. What is a VA file number, I know some people would be confused. I don’t know mine I thought my social is the only thing I would need. 
### Task 3: (After enter SSN) Short break in filling out form

Pretend that your doorbell just rang, and you want to jump up to answer it. What will you do with the form that you're in the middle of filling out?
I would go to the bottom and hit finish later. 
Go ahead and do that. So, it says it’s been saved, oh it says when it was saved, it will expire in a month okay! So now if I close the browser out would it bring me back to this page that is the question, or would I leave it open. So I would hit my monitor power button and then when I come back I would come back and sign in. I think that it should automatically pop up here since this is that last thing that I was working on.
What page do you normally land on when you sign in? It usually goes to the home page. 
### Task 4: Resume filling out form

OK, now let's say that you're back from answering the door. Please continue filling out the form that you were working on.
I would come back turn my monitor on and hopefully come back here and click continue. If I did accidentally click start over, I would like to see a prompt confirming that I want to start over. (Go ahead and try that and see what happens) Oh, that pops up I like that. (clicking continue) It took me back here and saved what I had. I like that it blacked out part of the social security. That is something I was going to say about when we are filling it out is as you start to type it blackout as you type it part way through or by the time you start the next set of numbers. I don’t mind the last 4 but I think it needs to black out the first numbers. 
Country that’s good. The list of states makes you know. Error gotta have 5 digits for postal code, that’s good that way I know it’s right. 
We’ll use this email to send you notifications about your form submission, that’s good. Select at least one record. I do like this select at least one I can get more than one record at a time, I like that option if that’s truly the option. 
### Task 5: (After specify records) Long break in filling out form

Say that you're really hungry and need to take a longer break to make a snack/lunch/dinner. What will you do with the form that you're filling out?
Right now I would hit finish later and then power down again. 
### Task 6: Resume filling out form (again)

OK, pretend that you just finished your snack/lunch/dinner. Now you want to get back to the form you were filling out. How would you do that?
I’m back I power on. I like the fact that it says if you’re using a public computer it says to sign out.
And actually, if you are away longer than 30 minutes it might actually sign you out, but it doesn’t say that here. If you click on the mango page at the top that would be what you see when you log back in. Does that look like what you are used to seeing? Yes it is. My quest then is where would I find the form? Scrolling ah, there it is, I like that, that’s what I wanted to see. Each category has their thing. Here it is benefit applications and forms that’s what I want. 
So this is not something new to the prototype, is this something you have seen before? No because usually when I start one I don’t stop until it’s finished, I don’t trust the save. I want to get it done and get it off my plate. 
So, you want to get it done, and don’t want to have to start again. Yeah, I have never utilized the save before.
So maybe in this blank space by claims and appeals maybe moving it here so you can see it right when you open it up. That would be a good thing, it looks like it would fit there. 
I like the fact that it says if you can’t find your application form. Can I click that and see what it does? Okay, it’s a lot of reading, I like the bullet points, it’s quick and easy. There are a lot of reading but. If you have any questions the number 800. Y’all don’t have anything to do with that. I wish they would fix that the people that answer the 800 number. It’s a little wordy.
Okay so I come back and it shows where I left off. Curious though if I click another one would it take that off or allow multiple records? (try) Oh I like that idea. I might see something and go oh I need that too so I can click that and get other things. 
Other details, I don’t know what I could add to… I don’t know if it’s necessary. It says optional so I start racking my brain wasting time over thinking about it. I n my situation this doesn’t apply to me. I wouldn’t put that on there, if I didn’t have to see that page I would be fine. 
VA regional office name. Are they asking for the hospital, the clinic. Sometimes I try to put in mine and it’s not on there. I’m glad it’s optional but I don’t think it’s necessary. 
I do like this, it’s closed up. They can click expand all if they need to. It would be nice to see it in red if it needs work or to be corrected. If that makes sense. 
That’s awesome, I like that it caught it. (did not type in matching names) 
## Post-Task Interview

1. Overall, about everything on the website in this session...What worked _well_ for you?
I like the option of the save, that was nice. To sign back in and have it easily be accessible and be found. It was easy to fill out it wasn’t a ton of information it was basic. There’s no extra security questions, contact information was simple. It flowed quickly. If I had to fill this out this is one of the quickest things I filled out. The additional information and VA office I don’t know that it’s needed. My reginal office I don’t even know where that is I have never been there, I always use other places. If they need a little bit more information then this could pop up when you come to the review. Then they could say we need you to tell us. If it’s just optional people won’t put that in. 
1. What was _unclear_ or _didn't work well_ for you?

1. What would you like to _change_ or _add_?

1. What kinds of online forms have you filled out before, and how does the process compare to the VA form you filled out today?
All kind of stuff at work, PDF’s. Can you clarify that question? Renewed my license plate other government stuff.
How do they compare? This one is quicker by far, and it was easier because it was basic. I understand other things need more details. I could have done this on my own in less than 5 minutes, as opposed to 20-30 minutes.
1. When do you expect the information that you enter into an online form to be saved?
When you hit continue, every time you hit continue it should be saved, either way when you hit finish later or continue it should save everything from this page prior. 

I have a question from an observer. Do you use the VA mobile app at all? Yes
What are your thoughts about doing something like this on a mobile app? For me I think it’s easier on a large screen. It could be done on a phone but I think it is easier on a bigger screen/
Are you using the software keyboard or a hardware keyboard? Software.
The reason I ask is I did not see the keyboard. Maybe I did. 

1. If you had a magic wand and could change anything about how we save your information before you submit a form, what would you want?

1.	Is there anything else that we haven't talked about that you think I should know?
2.	
## Thank You and Closing

Are you still okay if we use any video or audio clips from this session? Yes

* _(yes / no)_

* _(If participant says yes)_ Is there any part of our discussion that you would NOT want shared in a video clip? I’m okay with anything to be used to benefit. 
