# Conversation Guide 
## Intro 
Thanks for joining us today! My name is [Moderator's name].
Before we continue, I'd like to tell you a little more about who I am and what we’re doing...
I'm a usability researcher, and I work as part of a team that is improving VA's websites and other resources for Veterans. We reach out to Veterans as we design these resources to get their input so we can help make sure our resources meet their needs.

For this feedback session, we're here because VA has updated the facility locator tool on VA.gov. Your input could help us make this tool easier to use by Veterans like you. You'll try it out while thinking about a hypothetical situation, not your own experiences.

Before we start, a few things I want to mention:

* This entire session should take about 45 minutes *(or up to 75 minutes for an AT user)*. I want to be sure not to keep you much longer, so I may occasionally prompt you with the next question or topic.
* In this session, we want to hear your honest opinions. There are no right or wrong answers; we are not testing you. We're testing these resources to learn how we can make them better for all Veterans. I welcome any and all of your feedback, and I won't be offended by any opinions you express. If at any time you don't feel comfortable answering a question, let me know and we'll move on to the next question.
* You'll be interacting with a prototype. This is a demo tool that may not function exactly the way you expect. Since it's a demo, none of your actions will affect your actual VA information or benefits.
* If for any reason and at any time you want to stop the session, please let me know. You can take a break from the session or end it altogether. You will not lose your stipend or be penalized in any way if we need to stop.
* I would like to get your preference on how many people are on this call. We can conduct a private session between the folks on this call right now, or we can invite one of my teammates to join us. They find it helpful to be able to watch these sessions to learn more about how Veterans use VA.gov, but we can also just share our notes with them after this session ends. Both are perfectly OK. What matters most to us is what’s most comfortable for you.
    Would you prefer a private session between us, or are you comfortable with another team member joining the call?
    * *If not*: Is there anything we can do to make you feel more comfortable? 
    * *If yes*: Thank you! I will now invite them in. 
* I'd like to record my screen and audio as we talk today to confirm that we have captured your opinions accurately. I will delete the recording after I complete analysis. We respect your need for confidentiality--we won’t link anything you choose to share in the session to your name or any information that could identify you. **Are you comfortable if I record my screen and audio as we talk today?**  Yes
* **I have started recording.** I'd like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record my screen and the audio as we talk today? Yes

## Warm-up Questions (Optional) - 5 minutes

I understand you are a (*Veteran / Family member / Caregiver). Yes
2. What kind of device are you using today? Samsung Galaxy s23
    - What operating system? Android
3. What web browser do you use? Chrome

>4a. [**SKIP for non-SR users**] Are you using a screen reader right now? Which one do you use? Yes but not right now. Speechify
 
  >4b. How would you rate your level of experience with using a screen *(reader / magnifier) *--beginner, intermediate, advanced, or expert? I would consider myself and Expert.

  >4c. How long have you been using a screen *(reader / magnifier) *? Going on 18n months.

  >4d. Have you ever shared your screen in Zoom while using a screen *(reader / magnifier)? 
I actually think I did.
  >4e. Is there anything else that we can do to support you during this session?

5. What VA benefits, if any, do you have experience with? 
Location rehab, so chapter 31 benefits. I’m in the VR and E program, Disability claims and my wife applied as a caregiver recently. Health care as well.

6. If you need to find a VA location you haven't been to before, what would be your first step? 
Well, honestly, I would just Google, VA. Location. Say it was Fayetteville, North Carolina, or something like that. I would just Google Fayetteville VA clinic and see where that locates on the map.

7. Now that you're on the Find VA locations page, I'd like to get your thoughts on the page. For now, I'm not going to ask you to do a search, just share your observations on anything you encounter.
It’s easy to read off the bat to read and see, I love the bold Find VA Locations because it’s easy for me to read. As I get older it’ll be important. So, like I know hey I’m on the right page. The use my location is good for people that are tech savvy would know to click that. Someone like my dad an older Vet may not know to click that. As I scroll down I see that I can put my ZIP Code or city in there and it would probably populate some results. So this page is very clean and simple.
## First Task: Find VA Facilities
Note that some parts of the page will work, and other parts will not.

Please look over this page and tell me about it. I'm interested in your impressions of what you see and any questions that you have.
I love how it has get directions on google maps. I would click on that, and it would feed right to it and hopefully Boom. I also have options to call right below that. It’s good. I also like the options of satellite view. I also like options of satellite view. I don’t know if there is an option to code that in there. I like to have a reference of where to go and where I am at. Like if I see a red phone booth at the corner that is something I can lock on to. 
Got it so rather than kind of the simplified map with flat colors, you'd prefer to see more photographic?
Well, actually, I think the hybrid works both.
Let's try going up. And I see you selected caregiver support. Can you tell me why you did that?
Because my wife just applied for that. I didn’t even know about the program, and I don’t think she did either. We just applied for it so that is why it came to my mind and why I picked it. 
Let’s change service type just to be blank and try searching for that.
Wow there’s a lot of clinics
Do you find that one of these views makes more sense to you then the other, list vs. map?
I think they both serve their own purpose equally. One has to mutually support the other. I’m one that would probably gravitate to the map first. Then again the list I think give you the opportunity to see something the map doesn’t show, like the list would show what the clinic provides. 
Is that something you would want to see in the list for each facility?
Maybe in a drop down. In my situation I might be looking for specific services. I have to drive a good distance to get my specialty services. So, knowing where to get that would be good. 
Please try to talk aloud about what you're thinking and what you want to do BEFORE selecting anything.

Let's imagine that you just moved to Del Mar, California. Your new ZIP code is 92014. Show me how you would find VA facilities in your area. 

How clear is this list of locations? 

Can you show me how you might look at these results on a map of the area?

- *Step 3: Get to map view*

## Second Task: Evaluate a facility
Let's say that you're interested in visiting the Escondido VA Clinic, which is #6 in the search results. How would you find more information about this facility?
I would click right on there. It gives me a full splash page for it. So, there  is all that information. This is where I was talking like, it’s kind of buried in there. I had to drill in to find out what they do. This gives me all the stuff that I would, yep, it’s like a snapshot of, yeah it brings everything. 
Tell me what you're looking for here, what you just pressed?
I was trying to get back to that spot that would give me the Google maps.
Comparing the list of locations to the map, which of these do you feel is more helpful for you?
The list, because it’s using map box, and I am so used to using Google maps. I wouldn’t touch that button because I know this exists. I would only do that because I know it. 
So, because you know that the map tool, we use on VA.gov isn’t your preference and is not as usable to you as Google, you’re just not going to use that tab at all? 
That’s right. I will explore any map tool when I come to it, but since I know this is not what I am used to I wouldn’t use it. Also my wife and I have a system on Google where I drop pins on where I am supposed to be and she can use it to find where I am at. 
What information about this facility is most important to you?
## Third Task: Compare facilities
Let's say that you now want to compare two facilities in the results: the Kearny Mesa VA Clinic and the Rio VA Clinic. These are results 3 and 4.

Can you show me how you would find both facilities on the map?
A quick look at this I’m looking at airport and how close it is to the airport. It may be a problem or not. I’m looking to see if there is a hotel nearby if it is an over night thing. 

Can you show me how you would find both facilities in the list of results?

- *Step 1: Switch from Map to List view*

## Fourth Task: Evaluating overlapping locations
Let's say that someone you know needs help locating a VA health facility in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. Their ZIP code is 19093. Show me how you would find the closest VA health facility to them.
Well, if I knew exactly what his address was then like, let’s just say that he’s in Chester. This would be helpful. It would give me a proximity of VA closer to him. This is where a map is beneficial to give me a snapshot of the vicinity. Okay let me try with the ZIP code. Oh yeah it gives more, maybe it’s the same. But if I had a street address, lets just say 12 Poplar street if you don’t mind. (Yeah please). 1.3 miles 2.8 miles so it is giving me a list from Poplar street. Boom I can go from that list. In my mind it’s much more beneficial to have it there on the map.
## Fifth Task: Evaluating community providers
Let's say that person you're helping needs to go to an in-network urgent care facility. Can you show me how you'd find the closest facility for them??
There it is, yeah this is what I was afraid of. Let’s go back, what the is that right? There’s no urgent care in Philadelphia?
Try going to facility type and see if there is another option?
Oh, it’s emergency care vs. urgent care. Let me just check now… wow okay that’s neat. I was just looking to see for myself or others. I’ve never used a Vet center but, I’ve heard they can help you. One thing I don’t see is where do I find my search perimeter. There it is so on the map I have to go out, but where do I find it on here? Then my list changes. 
At what point in this process you just showed me would you just switch to google maps? 
Right here. The closest one and would get navigation. 
Would it be helpful for you to be able to see the search radius or set that on your own?
100%
Playing around with different areas and looking at different things. Talks about how the list changes when he zooms out on the map. It is misleading. I would like the option to determine the radius that I am willing to travel for service. 
## Post-Task Interview 

Overall, about everything on the website in this session... What worked *well* for you?
The Zip code, enter the city in the search box. This is beautiful. This was easy and clean to navigate, the popups were clear, I like the color contrast. That’s super simple to me to use. It isn’t congested with a whole bunch of other stuff. I didn’t have a single popup which is important to me, and I think a lot of people.
I just noticed that this little thing, try other tools to search. Yah that is something I would look int. 
2. What was *unclear or didn't work well* for you?
As I said the map just is a personal preference thing. It’s not going to be everyone’s problem. Searching for the radius became confusing, that didn’t work out great. When we were searching and they were popping up in the pins, and it would bring up the list that it brought it to google maps. It just shows people are more used to google maps. It would be so much more seamless if it would be able to have the google map integration to it. 
3. Is there anything you would like to *change or add*?
No, it’s very simple. If anyone can’t figure this out, they’re a complete moron.
4. Is there anything else that we haven't talked about that you think I should know? 
Maybe some sort of contrast or stand out for the things on the bottom. The stuff in the dark blue like contact us can get lost. 
## Thank You and Closing 

**Are you still okay if we use any video or audio clips from this session? **Yes
*Is there any part of our discussion that you would NOT want shared in a video clip? No

**We really appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us today**. Your feedback is so helpful to us as we continue to learn about Veterans so we can improve the online tools that we provide.

If you know any other Veterans or family members who might be willing to participate in a future research session like this one, you can pass along the web link that you'll receive in your email from our team. 

Thank you so much again, and I hope that you enjoy the rest of your day!
