# Conversation Guide 
## Intro 
Thanks for joining us today! My name is [Moderator's name].
Before we continue, I'd like to tell you a little more about who I am and what we’re doing...
I'm a usability researcher, and I work as part of a team that is improving VA's websites and other resources for Veterans. We reach out to Veterans as we design these resources to get their input so we can help make sure our resources meet their needs.

For this feedback session, we're here because VA has updated the facility locator tool on VA.gov. Your input could help us make this tool easier to use by Veterans like you. You'll try it out while thinking about a hypothetical situation, not your own experiences.

Before we start, a few things I want to mention:

* This entire session should take about 45 minutes *(or up to 75 minutes for an AT user)*. I want to be sure not to keep you much longer, so I may occasionally prompt you with the next question or topic.
* In this session, we want to hear your honest opinions. There are no right or wrong answers; we are not testing you. We're testing these resources to learn how we can make them better for all Veterans. I welcome any and all of your feedback, and I won't be offended by any opinions you express. If at any time you don't feel comfortable answering a question, let me know and we'll move on to the next question.
* You'll be interacting with a prototype. This is a demo tool that may not function exactly the way you expect. Since it's a demo, none of your actions will affect your actual VA information or benefits.
* If for any reason and at any time you want to stop the session, please let me know. You can take a break from the session or end it altogether. You will not lose your stipend or be penalized in any way if we need to stop.
* I would like to get your preference on how many people are on this call. We can conduct a private session between the folks on this call right now, or we can invite one of my teammates to join us. They find it helpful to be able to watch these sessions to learn more about how Veterans use VA.gov, but we can also just share our notes with them after this session ends. Both are perfectly OK. What matters most to us is what’s most comfortable for you.
    Would you prefer a private session between us, or are you comfortable with another team member joining the call?
    * *If not*: Is there anything we can do to make you feel more comfortable? 
    * *If yes*: Thank you! I will now invite them in. 
* I'd like to record my screen and audio as we talk today to confirm that we have captured your opinions accurately. I will delete the recording after I complete analysis. We respect your need for confidentiality--we won’t link anything you choose to share in the session to your name or any information that could identify you. **Are you comfortable if I record my screen and audio as we talk today?** Yes
* **I have started recording.** I'd like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record my screen and the audio as we talk today? Absolutely okay.

## Warm-up Questions (Optional) - 5 minutes

1.	I understand you are a (*Veteran / Family member / Caregiver). Marien corps.
2.	2. What kind of device are you using today? My Tablet
    - What operating system? Android
3. What web browser do you use? Chrome and Edge I use them about 50/50 maybe Chrome a little more.

>4a. [**SKIP for non-SR users**] Are you using a screen reader right now? Which one do you use? 
 
  >4b. How would you rate your level of experience with using a screen *(reader / magnifier) *--beginner, intermediate, advanced, or expert? 

  >4c. How long have you been using a screen *(reader / magnifier) *?

  >4d. Have you ever shared your screen in Zoom while using a screen *(reader / magnifier)? 

  >4e. Is there anything else that we can do to support you during this session?

5. What VA benefits, if any, do you have experience with? Medical disability, back in the day GI Bill
6. If you need to find a VA location you haven't been to before, what would be your first step? 
I would probably do something that doesn’t make sense and go to Google Maps and type in VA locations. Kind of like finding a pizza hut. But it would make more sense to go to the VA website and type VA locations near me.

7. Now that you're on the Find VA locations page, I'd like to get your thoughts on the page. For now, I'm not going to ask you to do a search, just share your observations on anything you encounter.
Uncomplicated, which I like Find VA Locations in big, bold letters. Pretty simple. You have a location finder on the phone, probably just type in my Zip Code. This is kind of cool, it has what type of facility.
## First Task: Find VA Facilities
Note that some parts of the page will work, and other parts will not.

Please look over this page and tell me about it. I'm interested in your impressions of what you see and any questions that you have.

Please try to talk aloud about what you're thinking and what you want to do BEFORE selecting anything.

Let's imagine that you just moved to Del Mar, California. Your new ZIP code is 92014. Show me how you would find VA facilities in your area. 
I just went to use my location and type in Zip code and boom, the search bar popped up automatically. 
VA health is the first one that comes up. Any specific? (No) Primary care let’s keep it simple. Okay, I’ve got 6 results. Well, this is good. 
Do you feel like the information you are getting back is helpful?
Very helpful. You eventually figure out a VA clinic is smaller than the VA medical center. Yeah, it’s simple here is the address the phone number. 
Is the map helpful? 
Yes, it’s standard, like if you’re looking for Taco Bell it’s the same thing. You can see the closet place. I would probably choose number 1. It’s simple even a 5-year-old could do this.
How clear is this list of locations? 
Can you show me how you might look at these results on a map of the area?

- *Step 3: Get to map view*

## Second Task: Evaluate a facility
Let's say that you're interested in visiting the Escondido VA Clinic, which is #6 in the search results. How would you find more information about this facility?
Boom there it is. I can click on it or get directions which I don’t really need right now.
What information about this facility is most important to you?
Initially probably the location. The main number the mental health, everything is there, no excess information that would be a waste of time. Location and what needs I can have fulfilled there. 
Can you show me how you would find that on the map?
Right now, I don’t know which specialty they offer. I would have to click on one to see what they offer first. So, I know I would not go there to get my appendix out but maybe go there to be referred to a specialist. Scrolling through that’s kind of cool, it tells you how long it takes to get an appointment. Depending on what my ailment would be would I know if I’m going to the right place. It seems like it’s pretty comprehensive. Like telehealth I can save time and do a telehealth appointment. 
Can you find it on the map?
So, touching on that you thought if you press the 4 over the link it would show…
Yeah, I did that because I am used to going to Google Maps on my computer and it will have a list. I want to go to this one then you know click on the number and it will get me there. 
## Third Task: Compare facilities
Let's say that you now want to compare two facilities in the results: the Kearny Mesa VA Clinic and the Rio VA Clinic. These are results 3 and 4.

Can you show me how you would find both facilities on the map?
Well Rio is number 4, so I know Rio is down there. Then Kearney is 3. Yeah, there they are on the map 3 and 4. Compare them in what way? (which one of those two are closer?) Well, it says Rio is 15 miles and Kearney is 13. I’ll go to Kearney and save 4 miles round trip.
Can you show me how you would find both facilities in the list of results?

## Fourth Task: Evaluating overlapping locations
Let's say that someone you know needs help locating a VA health facility in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. Their ZIP code is 19093. Show me how you would find the closest VA health facility to them.
## Fifth Task: Evaluating community providers
Let's say that person you're helping needs to go to an in-network urgent care facility. Can you show me how you'd find the closest facility for them??
There’s a bunch, there are 11 results. So, 11 places to choose from. It depends on where he is in Philly. It’s a big city there is going to be a big VA center I’m sure. There it is number 2.
## Fifth Task: Evaluating community providers
Let's say that person you're helping needs to go to an in-network urgent care facility. Can you show me how you'd find the closest facility for them??
Service type, urgent care and then search. (in this case you may need to change the facility type) Yeah it says urgent care it came up automatically. It doesn’t give me the number of results. At least 11.
Are you comfortable using the map trying to figure out where each of those are?
Absolutely. Why would you go all the way up to number 7. So yeah, like maybe he works over here. Yeah, it’s very easy the map is giving you all the prominent places here. This is completely idiot proof.
Do you feel like you are getting enough information on each facility that is on the list?
Yeah, we put in urgent care. I’m not sure what urgent care does. But yeah, it has all the relevant information, directions on the map, and phone number. I could learn more but it’s all right there. You don’t want everything on one page. 

## Post-Task Interview 

1.	Overall, about everything on the website in this session... What worked *well* for you?
2.	It’s simple, I think most people would be able to figure this out. It’s not really all that different than typing in a Google search, like for you know Taco Bell or whatever. It’s the same idea.
3.	What was *unclear or didn't work well* for you?
No, it’s very simple.
4.	Is there anything you would like to *change or add*?
I wouldn’t because there’s no junk on there or excess information.
No, it’s very simple. If anyone can’t figure this out, they’re a complete moron.
4. Is there anything else that we haven't talked about that you think I should know? 
I think that you should just play with it and figure it out. Like I just discovered you can do a telehealth appointment. I may not need to see the general practitioner, they can see me and refer me to the specialist. Honestly if somebody can’t figure this out, it’s not rocket science.
## Thank You and Closing 

**Are you still okay if we use any video or audio clips from this session? **Yes
*Is there any part of our discussion that you would NOT want shared in a video clip? No

**We really appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us today**. Your feedback is so helpful to us as we continue to learn about Veterans so we can improve the online tools that we provide.

If you know any other Veterans or family members who might be willing to participate in a future research session like this one, you can pass along the web link that you'll receive in your email from our team. 

Thank you so much again, and I hope that you enjoy the rest of your day!


