# Conversation Guide 
## Intro 
Thanks for joining us today! My name is [Moderator's name].
* I'd like to record my screen and audio as we talk today to confirm that we have captured your opinions accurately. I will delete the recording after I complete analysis. We respect your need for confidentiality--we won’t link anything you choose to share in the session to your name or any information that could identify you. **Are you comfortable if I record my screen and audio as we talk today?** Yes
* **I have started recording.** I'd like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record my screen and the audio as we talk today? Yes that’s fine.
## Warm-up Questions (Optional) - 5 minutes

1. I understand you are a (*Veteran / Family member / Caregiver). * Is that right? Yes, I’m transitioning.  
    - Thanks for confirming that.

2. What kind of device are you using today? iPhone

3. What web browser do you use? Chrome


5. What VA benefits, if any, do you have experience with? Education, I want to use chapter 31 vs my GI Bill, and health care.

6. If you need to find a VA location you haven't been to before, what would be your first step?
I would use Google, that platform is so common you can practically put anything into Google and it will be pretty accurate in getting you ballpark what you need.

7. Now that you're on the Find VA locations page, I'd like to get your thoughts on the page. For now, I'm not going to ask you to do a search, just share your observations on anything you encounter. 
It’s pretty straight forward I like that it automatically has the link to use your location. It’s pretty specific. There are a whole bunch of categories, it’s pretty specific. It looks pretty good to me, nothing confusing. 
    

## First Task: Find VA Facilities
Note that some parts of the page will work, and other parts will not.

Please look over this page and tell me about it. I'm interested in your impressions of what you see and any questions that you have.

Please try to talk aloud about what you're thinking and what you want to do BEFORE selecting anything.

Let's imagine that you just moved to Del Mar, California. Your new ZIP code is 92014. Show me how you would find VA facilities in your area.
I would start with VA health to make sure all my stuff has been transferred to my new location, and then also primary care. It’s got a list of, it’s got the address, phone number and distance. I love that mental health is one of the phone numbers that is nice to see. 
Is there anything additional you would like to see? No, I don’t think so. 
How clear is this list of locations?

Can you show me how you might look at these results on a map of the area?
Click this button view map. Nice then it gives you a nice aerial visual and perspective of where you are.

## Second Task: Evaluate a facility
Let's say that you're interested in visiting the Escondido VA Clinic, which is #6 in the search results. How would you find more information about this facility?
I would click on Escondido VA clinic. I like how one of the first links is making an appointment, registering for care. That is probably the most common reason people would be looking here. Wow that’s a lot of information, I’m surprised. Wow, yeah, that’s impressive.
*Step 1: From map view, select result 6 - Escondido VA Clinic*
I clock on the number, and it takes me to the corresponding clinic. 
What information about this facility is most important to you?

## Third Task: Compare facilities
Let's say that you now want to compare two facilities in the results: the Kearny Mesa VA Clinic and the Rio VA Clinic. These are results 3 and 4.

Can you show me how you would find both facilities on the map?
Look for the numbers. 
How useful do you find the map view compared to the list? Do you prefer one or the other? 
I would probably use both.
When would you use one over the other? If I wanted like just a phone number then that is when I would use the list view.
- *Step 1: Select result 3 - Kearny Mesa VA Clinic*
- *Step 2: Select result 4 - Rio VA Clinic*

Can you show me how you would find both facilities in the list of results?

- *Step 1: Switch from Map to List view*

## Fourth Task: Evaluating overlapping locations
Let's say that someone you know needs help locating a VA health facility in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. Their ZIP code is 19093. Show me how you would find the closest VA health facility to them. 
I would plug in the Zip code. I would keep it all VA health and search. It should populate the closest to me. There is one a half a mile from me, wow there is a lot. In a five mile radius wow that’s a lot. 

- *Step 1: Search for 19093 - all VA Health facilities*
- *Step 2: Select result 1 - Chestnut Street VA Clinic*

*(If not already looking at the map) * Take a look at the results on the map. Can you select the Chestnut Street VA Clinic?

Feel free to manipulate the map to select this location.

## Fifth Task: Evaluating community providers
Let's say that person you're helping needs to go to an in-network urgent care facility. Can you show me how you'd find the closest facility for them??
I would search urgent care. Let’s see what pops up as number 1. Oh, there is no urgent care. (let’s change facility type) Oh, okay. Number one is 4 miles away. It’s pretty basic information. That would be what I would espect.
- *Step 1: Search in 19093*
- *Step 2: For Urgent care*
- *Step 3: For All in-network urgent care*

## Post-Task Interview 

1. Overall, about everything on the website in this session... What worked *well* for you?
I liked how you were able to have a visual of these places versus just a list. It does bug me I had Urgent Care; it didn’t give me results. It bugs me that if you have the wrong facility type you could get no results. That’s kind of a bummer. I’m surprised at how much information there is. It’s really a nice, fantastic tool to have. Especially if you are going to a new place. 
Would you normally use this on your phone or computer? My phone. 
1. *(ASK EVERYONE) * What was *unclear or didn't work well* for you? No aside from the urgent care exercise. 

1. Is there anything you would like to *change or add*?
I don’t think so. 
1. Is there anything else that we haven't talked about that you think I should know? 
I’m curious once you get settled and are finished with your separation would you use this tool to set up the care you need? I know what I need where I am at, but I will be moving down the road and I would definitely use this then. 
Is there any information that was on the page that would be helpful to you in the search results? I don’t think so. May be hours of operation. I think if you add any more information it would get kind of busy. 
## Thank You and Closing 

**Are you still okay if we use any video or audio clips from this session? ** Yes
*(If yes) * Is there any part of our discussion that you would NOT want shared in a video clip? No

**We really appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us today**. Your feedback is so helpful to us as we continue to learn about Veterans so we can improve the online tools that we provide.

If you know any other Veterans or family members who might be willing to participate in a future research session like this one, you can pass along the web link that you'll receive in your email from our team. 

Thank you so much again, and I hope that you enjoy the rest of your day!

