# Conversation Guide 
## Intro 
Thanks for joining us today! My name is [Moderator's name].
Before we continue, I'd like to tell you a little more about who I am and what we’re doing...
I'm a usability researcher, and I work as part of a team that is improving VA's websites and other resources for Veterans. We reach out to Veterans as we design these resources to get their input so we can help make sure our resources meet their needs.

For this feedback session, we're here because VA has updated the facility locator tool on VA.gov. Your input could help us make this tool easier to use by Veterans like you. You'll try it out while thinking about a hypothetical situation, not your own experiences.

Before we start, a few things I want to mention:

* This entire session should take about 45 minutes *(or up to 75 minutes for an AT user)*. I want to be sure not to keep you much longer, so I may occasionally prompt you with the next question or topic.
* In this session, we want to hear your honest opinions. There are no right or wrong answers; we are not testing you. We're testing these resources to learn how we can make them better for all Veterans. I welcome any and all of your feedback, and I won't be offended by any opinions you express. If at any time you don't feel comfortable answering a question, let me know and we'll move on to the next question.
* You'll be interacting with a prototype. This is a demo tool that may not function exactly the way you expect. Since it's a demo, none of your actions will affect your actual VA information or benefits.
* If for any reason and at any time you want to stop the session, please let me know. You can take a break from the session or end it altogether. You will not lose your stipend or be penalized in any way if we need to stop.
* I would like to get your preference on how many people are on this call. We can conduct a private session between the folks on this call right now, or we can invite one of my teammates to join us. They find it helpful to be able to watch these sessions to learn more about how Veterans use VA.gov, but we can also just share our notes with them after this session ends. Both are perfectly OK. What matters most to us is what’s most comfortable for you.
    Would you prefer a private session between us, or are you comfortable with another team member joining the call?
    * *If not*: Is there anything we can do to make you feel more comfortable? 
    * *If yes*: Thank you! I will now invite them in. 
* I'd like to record my screen and audio as we talk today to confirm that we have captured your opinions accurately. I will delete the recording after I complete analysis. We respect your need for confidentiality--we won’t link anything you choose to share in the session to your name or any information that could identify you. **Are you comfortable if I record my screen and audio as we talk today?**  Yes
* **I have started recording.** I'd like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record my screen and the audio as we talk today? Yes it is.

## Warm-up Questions (Optional) - 5 minutes

1.	I understand you are a (*Veteran / Family member / Caregiver)? Yes
2. What kind of device are you using today? iPad
    - What operating system? iOS
3. What web browser do you use? Safari.

>4a. [**SKIP for non-SR users**] Are you using a screen reader right now? Which one do you use? Voiceover
 
  >4b. How would you rate your level of experience with using a screen *(reader / magnifier) *--beginner, intermediate, advanced, or expert? Very good, I teach it.

  >4c. How long have you been using a screen *(reader / magnifier) *? 9-10 years something like that.

  >4d. Have you ever shared your screen in Zoom while using a screen *(reader / magnifier)? 
  >4e. Is there anything else that we can do to support you during this session?

5. What VA benefits, if any, do you have experience with? 
A whole bunch.
6. If you need to find a VA location you haven't been to before, what would be your first step? 
Honestly, I would go to safari and to a VA location search, trying to get to this thing you have right here. 
Some people do a google search do you prefer safari? It depends. 
7. Now that you're on the Find VA locations page, I'd like to get your thoughts on the page. For now, I'm not going to ask you to do a search, just share your observations on anything you encounter.
To me what is see which is good a fancy black bar, which is good. This area here is a big black bar, I know if I have that I’m at the VA. 
The big Find VA locations heading lets me know where I am at. I can’t see it, but I know that I am in the right place. The use my location is great because normally people and me too would be looking 99% of the time, I would say for you know I don’t need it until I need it, but the option to have that makes it a lot easier to do. It can make it easier to find certain locations based on what you need. That’s really good and I see down at the bottom you have the search button it’s a big blue bar, I can see I don’t have to scroll down and search. I’m not sure of service type, I can’t do anything there.
Can I hit use my location so I can have those other boxes? (yeah go for it) Now it’s got a full map. That’s good you’ve got Feedback, that’s always a good button to have. 
I don’t know why it keeps prattling on. Does it do that sometimes in general or do you think it’s the page? No it’s my computer. 
You know if a veteran goes to an emergency room, they have 48 hours to report it to the VA. It’s either 48 or 72 I forget which. I would add on here if possible, a notation that says if you go to the Emergency room you need to contact the VA to be reimbursed within 72 hours, and then add the phone number. I like everything here, it’s useless for me because I am blind but to visual people it would be great. I don’t know how hard it would be to offer google maps from apple maps. Some cars have apple maps.
It sounds like blind veterans use apple products a lot? Yeah, the VA will often give out iPhones because of Voiceover. 
## First Task: Find VA Facilities
Note that some parts of the page will work, and other parts will not.

Please look over this page and tell me about it. I'm interested in your impressions of what you see and any questions that you have.

Please try to talk aloud about what you're thinking and what you want to do BEFORE selecting anything.

Let's imagine that you just moved to Del Mar, California. Your new ZIP code is 92014. Show me how you would find VA facilities in your area. 
Oh, boy. At this point I would not know what to look for. Without having an address to know what’s closest. Well let me go here real quick. That’s a medical center, that’s a clinic, so this is a clinic and that’s a clinic. So, again I think using… if I was out there in Del Mar, California I would go back and say what do I need. I would have to have an actual physical address. This is good but in relation to distance I can’t relate to it I don’t know the area. 
There is a text that says how many miles it is from the ZIP code is Voiceover showing that to you? 5.3 to what? In actual address would be more useful. 5.3 miles from the edge of a very large area or what? If I was going out there, I would be like crap where is the closest one to where I am going to be. If I was there I would use my location. 
How clear is this list of locations? 

Can you show me how you might look at these results on a map of the area?
- *Step 3: Get to map view*

## Second Task: Evaluate a facility
Let's say that you're interested in visiting the Escondido VA Clinic, which is #6 in the search results. How would you find more information about this facility?
I would double tap the link. So that’s, Oh a popup for something. That’s how I would do it, I’m listening to. Let me go back here, see the heading is a link. Having that wording Link there is very important to us blind veterans. I am learning to slow down and listen to what it says. That is key for us, is to hear what we are looking for. The phone number there is good to have.
I can’t see the map. I can see colors and dots.
If you were using this tool on your own, would you interact with it at all? I don’t know let me try and see.  I zoomed in but I don’t know what that did to me. There is a red dot and Escondidas I can’t tell what that is there. You can see the struggle I have with the map. I selected a number and it shows the list of clinics it just moved it to the top of the list. Those dots for me is no use, I know two places are close together.
If I wasn’t watching you would you use the map? Probably not I would go back to use my location or have a better location to where I am going. A map is no use if you don’t know where you are going or where you are at. 
What information about this facility is most important to you?

## Third Task: Compare facilities
Let's say that you now want to compare two facilities in the results: the Kearny Mesa VA Clinic and the Rio VA Clinic. These are results 3 and 4.

Can you show me how you would find both facilities on the map?

Can you show me how you would find both facilities in the list of results?

- *Step 1: Switch from Map to List view*

## Fourth Task: Evaluating overlapping locations
Let's say that someone you know needs help locating a VA health facility in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. Their ZIP code is 19093. Show me how you would find the closest VA health facility to them.
Again, it goes back to the same thing, I would then ask what do you need, what are you looking for, what kind of facility. Let’s go with the blind and look for a VIST coordinator. How hard would it be to search for that. I would go to VA health, the closest to a VIST coordinator would be optometry. I didn’t hear anything, so it’s not there. I was listening for anything like optometry, ophthalmology, or eye care and there was nothing there. So, there’s a VA clinic. So right now I would be at the point of frustration and say I am getting out of this and would search otherwise. Whether I go to VA.gov or calling my VIST coordinator. 
How do you find a VIST coordinator? Typically, you can call the VA and they will help you, a poor VIST coordinator will be hidden from even the operator so that they can’t find them. There are 7,000 BVA veterans but they don’t know the services out there. 
So it sounds like it would be helpful for blinded Veterans to be able to find the VIST coordinator, at major facilities on the facility page.
So a facility page is really long. You didn’t go through the whole thing today. Is that how you normally browse? Yes. I would go to the main clinic and call them. At this point knowing they have optometric services I would call them. 
## Fifth Task: Evaluating community providers
Let's say that person you're helping needs to go to an in-network urgent care facility. Can you show me how you'd find the closest facility for them??
## Post-Task Interview 

1.	Overall, about everything on the website in this session... What worked *well* for you?
Everything, I think this is well designed. This really is a very good thing. Clicking, Try using other tools, clicking on Pennsylvania. I’m done using this page, it’s exhausting. Too much information? Yeah, well at this point it’s exhausting I would be frustrated at that point.  Going back your page is about a gazillion times easier. 
Would it be more helpful to you if each result that came up in the search had a brief description of the specialties served at that location? Not on the search list but when you click on the facility. Clicking on the other services link, scrolling down to optometry.  In this description here it should say somewhere “if you are legally blind call this number” it’s not saying if you are legally blind this is what is covered. Going back to the list could you put blind or low vision services, and it could connect you to blind services in the VA? Yeah, I don’t see why not, it sounds like you’re saying there needs to be more for blind/lo vision veterans. 
2. What was *unclear or didn't work well* for you?
3. Is there anything you would like to *change or add*?
No, it’s very simple. If anyone can’t figure this out, they’re a complete moron.
4. Is there anything else that we haven't talked about that you think I should know? 

## Thank You and Closing 

**Are you still okay if we use any video or audio clips from this session? **
*Is there any part of our discussion that you would NOT want shared in a video clip?

**We really appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us today**. Your feedback is so helpful to us as we continue to learn about Veterans so we can improve the online tools that we provide.

If you know any other Veterans or family members who might be willing to participate in a future research session like this one, you can pass along the web link that you'll receive in your email from our team. 

Thank you so much again, and I hope that you enjoy the rest of your day!


