# Conversation Guide 
## Intro 
Thanks for joining us today! My name is [Moderator's name].
Before we continue, I'd like to tell you a little more about who I am and what we’re doing...
I'm a usability researcher, and I work as part of a team that is improving VA's websites and other resources for Veterans. We reach out to Veterans as we design these resources to get their input so we can help make sure our resources meet their needs.

For this feedback session, we're here because VA has updated the facility locator tool on VA.gov. Your input could help us make this tool easier to use by Veterans like you. You'll try it out while thinking about a hypothetical situation, not your own experiences.

Before we start, a few things I want to mention:

* This entire session should take about 45 minutes *(or up to 75 minutes for an AT user)*. I want to be sure not to keep you much longer, so I may occasionally prompt you with the next question or topic.
* In this session, we want to hear your honest opinions. There are no right or wrong answers; we are not testing you. We're testing these resources to learn how we can make them better for all Veterans. I welcome any and all of your feedback, and I won't be offended by any opinions you express. If at any time you don't feel comfortable answering a question, let me know and we'll move on to the next question.
* You'll be interacting with a prototype. This is a demo tool that may not function exactly the way you expect. Since it's a demo, none of your actions will affect your actual VA information or benefits.
* If for any reason and at any time you want to stop the session, please let me know. You can take a break from the session or end it altogether. You will not lose your stipend or be penalized in any way if we need to stop.
* I would like to get your preference on how many people are on this call. We can conduct a private session between the folks on this call right now, or we can invite one of my teammates to join us. They find it helpful to be able to watch these sessions to learn more about how Veterans use VA.gov, but we can also just share our notes with them after this session ends. Both are perfectly OK. What matters most to us is what’s most comfortable for you.
    Would you prefer a private session between us, or are you comfortable with another team member joining the call?
    * *If not*: Is there anything we can do to make you feel more comfortable? 
    * *If yes*: Thank you! I will now invite them in. 
* I'd like to record my screen and audio as we talk today to confirm that we have captured your opinions accurately. I will delete the recording after I complete analysis. We respect your need for confidentiality--we won’t link anything you choose to share in the session to your name or any information that could identify you. **Are you comfortable if I record my screen and audio as we talk today?**  Yes
* **I have started recording.** I'd like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record my screen and the audio as we talk today? Yes

## Warm-up Questions (Optional) - 5 minutes

1.	I understand you are a (*Veteran / Family member / Caregiver). 
2. What kind of device are you using today? Samsung flip 5
    - What operating system? Android
3. What web browser do you use? Chrome

>4a. [**SKIP for non-SR users**] Are you using a screen reader right now? Which one do you use? 
 
  >4b. How would you rate your level of experience with using a screen *(reader / magnifier) *--beginner, intermediate, advanced, or expert? 

  >4c. How long have you been using a screen *(reader / magnifier) *? 

  >4d. Have you ever shared your screen in Zoom while using a screen *(reader / magnifier)? 
  >4e. Is there anything else that we can do to support you during this session?

5. What VA benefits, if any, do you have experience with? 
All of them. Yes. I don’t get a pension but I had to dig into it. 
6. If you need to find a VA location you haven't been to before, what would be your first step? It’s Google maps usually. I mean I like Google VA centers near me and it would bring p a map.

7. Now that you're on the Find VA locations page, I'd like to get your thoughts on the page. For now, I'm not going to ask you to do a search, just share your observations on anything you encounter.
Just from when I was first clicking on the link, it feels very much similar to the VA app or VA website. I think it feels familiar. 
I can use my location, facility type, assuming medical financial, I haven’t clicked on anything yet. Service type I don’t know, it doesn’t look like a drop-down option. 
Why do I need to give permission when both google and chrome have permission? This might be a bug in what we are working on right now. Let’s use your ZIP code for now. 
Okay boom let’s do urgent care. Perfect that’s the one I was looking for. So, what was I doing right there, Recently I had to go to urgent care, and this was the facility I went to. I wanted to make sure it was going to be on the list. Just to validate that this is working. I just tried to grab one of them to see how it worked with Google maps and pull it up. So, here’s one thing. I had an experience where they asked me for my VA client number, I had no idea what they were asking. So, if I’m already logged in to the VA can there be a button that says required documentation, so that I know what I need when I go there. Because I didn’t have that and didn’t know what it meant, I had to go back and forth for the next 6 months to get it covered. So having an option of online scheduling as well. The phone number is great but then you call and get stuck on hold so can we have an option to schedule online. 
When you went to urgent care how did you find that one? I just Googled urgent care, and this was the closest thing next to me. Then I ran into in-network and out-of-network. So, knowing that ahead of time would be good as well.
Do you feel like having this search would be helpful if you need to find a similar facility in the future? Absolutely. 
To recap, the first ask is give me a list of what I will need documentation wise, the second and I understand it is a bit more of a process, is can we integrate online scheduling?
Would it be a barrier to you if you had to sign in to access that? No, I imagine you will need to be logged in if you want that authorization.
## First Task: Find VA Facilities
Note that some parts of the page will work, and other parts will not.

Please look over this page and tell me about it. I'm interested in your impressions of what you see and any questions that you have.

Please try to talk aloud about what you're thinking and what you want to do BEFORE selecting anything.

Let's imagine that you just moved to Del Mar, California. Your new ZIP code is 92014. Show me how you would find VA facilities in your area. 
Let’s go with Dental services. If I’m not familiar I wouldn’t use the list, I would choose map.
Why would you choose the map instead of the list?  Because I have no idea what this means yet. If I’m not there I don’t know what this address is. I need to see, oh wait, that’s actually not where I’m going to be moving to its way down here. Wow that whole thing is the ZIP code, wow there is nothing close. Even more reason to use the map. 
How clear is this list of locations? 

Can you show me how you might look at these results on a map of the area?
- *Step 3: Get to map view*

## Second Task: Evaluate a facility
Let's say that you're interested in visiting the Escondido VA Clinic, which is #6 in the search results. How would you find more information about this facility?
Click on it, I know how I would do it. I would go on Google maps bring it up, and then normally I can do a review of the location. That’s what I was looking for in VA maps.
Oh, do you often do a review of VA maps? No, but I know someone who does. That said I’m still looking. Oh, look at that make an appointment just what I was talking about. Perfect you read my mind. (It’s easier for VA facilities than community providers.) Finding the facility website. Going back to Google maps found reviews. That is what I would normally do. Going back to the Urgent care I visited doing the same thing is there anyway we could have the website for them on there?
What information about this facility is most important to you?

## Third Task: Compare facilities
Let's say that you now want to compare two facilities in the results: the Kearny Mesa VA Clinic and the Rio VA Clinic. These are results 3 and 4.

Can you show me how you would find both facilities on the map?
That’s one thing, if you go to Google maps… I have to remember the numbers 3 and 4. They are right here. I thought there was going to be a way to compare the two. 
Can you show me how you would find both facilities in the list of results?

- *Step 1: Switch from Map to List view*

## Fourth Task: Evaluating overlapping locations
Let's say that someone you know needs help locating a VA health facility in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. Their ZIP code is 19093. Show me how you would find the closest VA health facility to them. Like where are you going from? What happens if you want to use an address? That’s better than California. I would screen shot and say here friend. So, I can type in an address. It’s not letting me type in an address. City, state or ZIP code. 
Is this tool less helpful only being at the city level? Yep! Going back to where I live… Here I am I’m way down here if I was doing closest, looking at the map would help. Street address matters because in my case #1 isn’t closest to me # 3 is. 
## Fifth Task: Evaluating community providers
Let's say that person you're helping needs to go to an in-network urgent care facility. Can you show me how you'd find the closest facility for them??
## Post-Task Interview 

1.	Overall, about everything on the website in this session... What worked *well* for you?
Familiarity, I’m familiar with the site, the look and feel of it. I’m familiar with Google map type formatting. Whenever I try to do a new application or site I try to create a relationship with it. Is this trustworthy. Sometimes I have to Google it to see if it is right. I didn’t have that feeling with this, I could trust what it was saying. 
I liked give me the details that I will need when I go to these places. When I do these things I try to think about my mom and what would my mom use. I have walked her through Google maps so she is familiar with it. 
2. What was *unclear or didn't work well* for you?
3. Is there anything you would like to *change or add*?
I would be curious to see if we had location working would it use my exact location or just my ZIP code? Why can’t we use an address?
No, it’s very simple. If anyone can’t figure this out, they’re a complete moron.
4. Is there anything else that we haven't talked about that you think I should know? 

## Thank You and Closing 

**Are you still okay if we use any video or audio clips from this session? **Yes
*Is there any part of our discussion that you would NOT want shared in a video clip? No

**We really appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us today**. Your feedback is so helpful to us as we continue to learn about Veterans so we can improve the online tools that we provide.

If you know any other Veterans or family members who might be willing to participate in a future research session like this one, you can pass along the web link that you'll receive in your email from our team. 

Thank you so much again, and I hope that you enjoy the rest of your day!

