# December 17, 2020 Interview with Whole Health provider (a second Whole Health provider joined 3/4 of the way through)

## Key takeaways:
- Would prefer for the PHI to be available on a Veteran-facing site, so any Veteran could stumble upon it and maybe fill it out. Sees this as another avenue into Whole Health. Also, Veterans tend to refer other Vets to Whole Health, so a public link could be utilized to start that referral process.
- Would also like to be able to order the PHI for a Veteran, so a notification is sent to them requesting that they fill out the form. 
- Wants the completed PHI to be sent directly to CPRS as a separate note, because it is easier to search/find that way.
- Wants an alert send to a “response team” (mentions coaches could possibly fill this role) when a PHI is added to CPRS, so the PHI could be reviewed and the Veteran could be contacted.
- They recently set up a 6-month non-mandatory clinical reminder after working with their PACT partners, so the PHI can be reviewed or filled out. 
- They are thinking through what parts of the PHI can be a data object and a health factor to pull them forward just with the click of a button in the future. This way all providers can have a better understanding of what is important to the Veteran.
- When describing optimal workflow through Whole Health, it was as follows:
    - a warm handoff (from primary care or someone else)
    - a Whole Health orientation
    - Getting into the  “How do I take charge of my life” course where they fill out the PHI during class via their phone
    - The PHI gets sent automatically to CPRS as they fill it out
    - then they might get into the clinical care side of Whole Health. 
- Other questionnaires utilized are a little more nuanced and would require more exploration.

## Transcript of Interview
Interviewer 2: Amanda recommended that we talk to you about the PHI or any other forms that you are sending out to Veterans prior to meeting with a coach. We wanted to understand that process a little bit as well as how COVID has impacted these processes. We are asking these questions, because we are part of a team that is looking at given that we are in this pandemic era how do we digitalize some of the processes for forms, because you don’t have in face interaction anymore, so we want to better understand some opportunity areas as VA kinds of increased the number of virtual visits they had is there anything that we can incorporate into that to make it more streamlined…


Interviewer 1: Can you tell us abut your background and what you do with Whole Health?

Clinician: I’m working in a Health Behavior Coordinator position. Here is St. Louis, we actually have two Health Behavior Coordinator positions. One that really works more closely with the HPDP team and I work with the Whole Health team. That is how we split that to accomplish more of the educational goals of both of those arms of what we are doing.

Interviewer 1: What does that acronym stand for?

Clinician: It is Health Promotion and Disease Prevention. We also called them hippie dippier sometimes. That is just another arm of some of the things that they do at the VA. The move programming, which is about weight management, tobacco cessation. We work closely with them in VISN 15 . Our larger coordinator oversees that, Women’s Health, and Whole Health, so we work pretty closely. With the Health Behavior Coordinator role, I do a lot of education work. I work with the primary care teams talking to them about what is Whole Health and how do we integrate that into practice, those sorts of…more of a cultural changes and even down to the nitty gritty of logistics of working on charting processes and how that looks in daily clinical flow. Then, from a discipline background, I’m a psychologist and an RN. I have been an RN for a little over 20 years now and I switched into psychology about halfway through that. So as a psychologist, I do clinician practice, mostly focusing on bio-feedback. COVID has changed that in many ways, because bio-feedback is heavily toward more face-to-face oriented sessions, so I also do some individual therapy and work in some yoga and chronic pain to work on some of the chronic pain research projects that we have going here. I kind of branch a bunch of ways, but it is that nice balance of getting to do some clinical work, some education work, and then program development work even. Things that roll even nationally. 

Interviewer 1: I definitely want to hear about the actual practicing side and also with that process side, how you interact with some of the questionnaires that you do? We’ll start with the Personal Health Inventory? Before COVID, how was that utilized? We heard from someone else that most of the time Veterans actually filled that out, they would come in and do that with somebody face-to-face. Is that true? Or was that true at your location?

Clinician: That is pretty similar. Most of the time, I would have a bunch of paper versions and I would get those from the national DEPO and I would have a stack of those ready at my desk and we would go over that. Usually for my sessions, I would start with the one section where you look at the vitality scales and the map questions, then sometimes we would go through and do the rest where you go through the different areas of the Whole Health wheel. Sometimes, I would send that home with them and we would review it at the next session. I think that our coaches on our team will generally go through piece by piece, so that is a little different way of doing it. I’ve also used it in groups. I have one group that I do, CBT (?) and yoga for chronic pain. It is like a two hour group. We will do a PHI in one of the initial sessions to get people thinking about what their goals are. Really to think about what do they want more of in their life as opposed to that typical mindset of getting rid of pain. So to get that shift rolling, we would do that in the earlier session. In the group setting, we would do something similar. We would figure out what is most important to us and share that as a group, then we would send that house with them to do the back section of it. Then they would come back and discuss it, so it is a little different as an individual versus a group. 

Interviewer 2: In a group, they do share what they have written and discuss/reflect on that as a whole.

Clinician: Yes. I would also ask that as long as it is ok with them then I would take their paper documents back with me and enter the data, then give it back to them the next week.

Interviewer 2: Where do you enter it in?

Clinician: Into CPRS, we have a separate note title and template that is the PHI.

Interviewer 2: So it ends up as a clinical note that is formatted in your template.

Clinician: Yes. 

Interviewer 2: How has this changed since COVID happened?

Clinician: Drastically. We found ways to pivot. One thing that I can share is (she pulls up wellvets.com/course-manual/). This is unique to St. Louis, but it is a VA sanctioned page. We put a lot of resources on here that are Veteran facing, such as our calendar, we have a course catalog. One things that we have on here is course materials and in there we have this PDF version of your Personal health Inventory. Because for one, it can kind of get the full PHI, and then they can have a place to fill this out. Since I have the ability to share screens with Veterans, I can direct them to this page, so they can do it on their computer if that is easier. Or if it is easier, I can share my screen and as we go through it, they can direct me to select where they think they are. They can see that happen in real time.

Interviewer 2: so they say it and you type it in.

Clinician: Yes. So at the end, I can download that and send them the complete version in MyHealtheVet.

Interviewer 2: At the end, do you transcribe this in CPRS or do you upload this document?

Clinician: No, I don’t upload the document. I really only save this long enough to upload it to MyHealtheVet. That is really all that I’m doing with this PDF version and then I’ll delete it out. It doesn’t have any identifying information on it, because it is just the form. Then, I will still have to go into CORS and enter that in as a note in CPRS. (Shows fake patient in CPRS, how she navigates to it and what the template looks like). Let me know if there are any other questions about that after seeing it in CPRS. Those are typically the ways that I’m doing that. I know that sometimes our clinical work we focus on them working on MAP and shared goals as opposed to them doing a full PHI. Sometimes we have our coaches do the full PHI and the clinicians work on what’s really most important to you, then using their clinical experience to really pulling out that shared goal. That is embedded in some of the clinician notes - really it is a piece compared to a full PHI.

Interviewer 2: Once you enter all of that information, when do you go back and use it in the sessions or go back into the system and refer to it? Do you go back and look at this multiple times for a patient? How does that work for you?

Clinician: It is individualized. We have that pulled into our reports, our health factor reports. I’ll pull up this screen and start sharing that. When you go into CPRS in Whole Health, then we can go back and refer to everything in Whole Health that has a Whole Health health factor associated with a data object from that note. Everything from outreach attempts down into a lot of the PHI. This is one of the old health factors. We switched over just recently within the last month to the national PHI, which isn’t much difference from the previous version. In the questions that we are asking and the formatting. (15:00) But it did change us over to the national health factors. So what you see on the screen are more local health factors, but you can kind of see some of the past work here. Since it is a test file, we have used it a lot, so most people wouldn’t have this many. I went through an updated version with a Veteran not long a go. He had done his first PHI with his coach when he was starting to work with Whole Health. When we were doing some treatment planning and he was transitioning. He had just done some biofeedback work and he was going to transition into another phase of treatment. I was like…we have talked about all the progress that you have made, would you like to do another PHI. We can go back and look at where you are now and how far you have come in some areas (16:02) and explore if there are other areas that you still want to focus on. It was nice. For him, I was able tog o through that and go through where he was this year compared to last year. Even though, I didn’t go through the first PHI with him, I had the documentation, so I could see the PHI that his coach did with him last year and give him feedback on “Hey, it looks like you made progress in this area or that area.”

Interviewer 2: Is that a typical experience or is that more abnormal that you are going back in and reviewing it multiple times.

Clinician: For people that I do a PHI with or even the groups that I do, I would say that about half of them had done a PHI before at some point. It is getting to be more and more common as we get more people that have gone through coaching. I wouldn’t say it was atypical or typical, about half have done it before, so you have that comparison point about how has the been different. Or you share with them if they don’t recall, since it has been over a year ago that they did it before. 

Interviewer 2: What are some of the triggers for them to fill it out again? Is it another coaching round? Is it meeting with another provider? Why would they do it more than once?

Clinician: It is going to be different for everybody. If they are in a group or I have a protocol running, then that will be a trigger that we will all do it together and I just encourage people oh you have done one before that it great. Even as employees in Whole Health, we find that doing these again is a good way to reassess and realize that we aren’t in the same place everyday. I usually don’t get any push back from people on that. Usually, if they happen to go into a group in that way, if they get engaged with coaching. Sometimes we have folks that get engaged with Whole Health from VFA or chiropractic care, then we work them more into the pathway of Whole Health, o once they get engaged with a coach, then that might be a trigger to go back to a PHI and look at that as a map of what they want to work on with their coach. Other instances, the is just that clinical judgment of “oh, it seems that things have really shifted. “Let’s see what maybe this tool can tell us about what is going well right now or what isn’t going as well and where we can focus.

Interviewer 2: If you had a magic wand, what would you change about the Personal Health Inventory process. That would make it your ideal situation.

Clinician: If I had a magic wand and I know that the app is out there, there is still  this barrier to being able to utilize this and it would be great if the Veteran could enter their PHI information and it would go directly into the chart. Right now, it is that we are reading it to them or going through it and you saw that process that I can put it in the PDF, but then I have to go back and put that in and transcribe that data. I had mentioned when the Mental Health Checkup app came out where we do a lot of our EVP tracking for things like our depression scales and our anxiety scales, things like that. I feel like our PHI should be on there. I should be able to put the order in to have them complete a PHI and then that gets put into our mental health assistant. You can even set reminders in that system to have it done every so often. Having things automated and be more direct. They directly fill this out and it gets pulled in would be my magic wand. 

Interviewer 2: From what we heard, the Medical Health Checkup is a separate interface that you have to log into to look at. Would you want it to go directly into that separate interface or would you want it to go into CPRS?

Clinician: For Mental Health Checkup, it is a little complicated, because there is the patient version of the app and the clinician version of the app and you have to have both of those things working perfectly and some people have had problems with that. I would prefer that it goes directly in?

Interviewer 2: to CPRS?

Clinician: Yes. I know that there was some talk about having people being able to fill them out at the check-in stations. The little machine where they check-in, the touchscreens.

Interviewer 2: Kiosk?

Clinician: yes. I don’t know if that would work though. The PHI isn’t short and sometimes there is a line up at the kiosk. I would hate someone to feel like they had to rush through it to let the next person get to the screen. So yeah, I know that some sites have had some limited capacity to use some iPads or other types of tablets to administer some of the pre-screening measures, I don’t know if that would be something great. I know most of us have had that experience when you go out to private care, they have you check-in on a tablet. Have it go directly in, just kind of streamlining that.

Interviewer 2: Since our team has access to va.gov, if we put it on there, they could fill it out at home at their leisure. What are your thoughts about that?

Clinician: I think that would be fine or great even for people to have the ability to fill it out whenever. Even if they weren’t involved in Whole Health yet. This could be a good way to just do some self-reflection and discovery. It could spark someone’s interest. I would still want the capacity to send them a link or send them a reminder or some way technologically so they could make that connection. I was having this discussion with a group of Veterans that I do VVC with yesterday, because we were having some technology problems with VVC. So we were talking about how they access those visits. Of course, we have the app that they can get onto their VVC appointments. They all said that they use their email link, so from my experience that is what works best for the Veterans. They don’t necessarily like accessing a separate app or you can send them an email with a link that they can easily click from their email to wherever you want them to go that seems to be their preference. 

Interviewer 2: You mentioned something about opening this up to not only people who this is ordered for but other people. Or would you really to limit it to people who signed up for the program or the ones that you said that you could put an order in for? Or would it be ok to open it everyone? Would that be on way to get into Whole Health to fill out this PHI?

Clinician: I think the could and would be fine. It would probably be a nice way having another avenue in. Especially right now, since people aren’t coming in for face-to face visits as often. We need to explore all of the different ways of getting information and these different opportunities out to Veterans. We have had paper version of the Phi available for Veterans in waiting rooms for years. Sometimes people pick those up and sometimes people at the desk say that it is going to be a few minutes why don’t you take one of these. When people do that organically, it s another way of making it work. Veterans refer one another. They know how the VA system works and how to recommend things that they are getting a good experience with, so we do use our Well Vets Site a lot, so even if it was a link that I could email to them or order. To have that link available on a Veteran-facing website, so they could get to it easily would be good.

Interviewer 2: So both ways. So one way that someone could just happen to find and fill it out and another way where you would order it and that is the trigger to fill this out. So, they filled it out, and we sent it to CPRS. Would you want it to automatically generate a note? Or would you want an alert for you to review it, then it get put in? Which way would you prefer?

Clinician: I think I would definitely like to have it generate a note. To be able to see that. We go back and forth a lot on that with other kinds of measures that we are working on like our Columbia Suicide Risk Assessment. We are like should be embed that in a note or should we have that as a separate note title. It is so much easier to find things if you can have something generate a separate note title. And to actually see that. Another thing that I think would be nice is if there was a receiving team, I think for PHI and Whole Health that might look like someone from Pathways either a partner or a coach getting alerted when that note gets generated, so they could review it. Maybe add their team to it as appropriate. Maybe read out to the Veteran and say ‘Oh hey. We saw that you filled this out. We just want to make sure that you don’t have any questions and see how we can help you met some of those goals that you indicated in your PHI.

Interviewer 2: I have a couple other questions about other forms, but is there anything else that we should know about the Personal Health Inventory before I move onto other ones.

Clinician: One little thing that we are doing here that we were working on this week. The MAP that comes from the PHI. We use that a lot for our primary care providers. For them to take that next step, to get into shared goal planning from a clinical perspective. This week we are developing a clinical reminder At first, we stayed so far away from clinical reminders because it felt like it kind of had a bad, you know. It is kind of this…

Interviewer 2: It is just another thing in the process that you have to check off.

Clinician: Yeah it is another box to check. But after working with our primary care over several months, They were like if you want to do these things asking people things questions and reviewing any information that has been put in there like a PHI the easiest way for them to do that is a clinical reminder. We have developed a non-mandatory clinical reminder. That is on a 6-moth reminder. And it was developed, because that is what our PACT providers were asking for, but it is also available for any clinical providers to use.  That is another thing that PHI is really good at what it does and what our pathways and coaching side of the house or our Whole Health only side of the house is doing and what are specialists and PACT providers are trying to figure out how to integrate in. What parts of that PHI can we have a data object and a health factor and pull them forward just with the click of a button I can see that it looks like you have filled out a PHI in the past and it looks like your family is the most important thing to you and we are talking about your diabetes management today, so how can we pull at of this together and make them care about who you are. 

Interviewer 2: Do any other people on the call have any other questions about the PHI that we didn’t cover?

Interviewer 1: I have a few clarification questions. You mentioned that you have ordered the PHI. Can you walk me through how that is done? If a Veteran comes in and says that they are interested in Whole Health, do you have everyone who is interested complete the PHI?

Clinician: We don’t have the ability to order the PHI right now. I think maybe what I was saying was that we can order some of those other measurement-based care assessments through Mental Health Checkup and something similar might be nice. 

Interviewer 1: Got it.

Clinician: Most of our providers have gone through the process of if a Veteran gets enrolled. I’m taking charge of my life and health, then they do the PHI as part of that taking charge of my life and health course. Over the 6 weeks of doing that course, they will just continue to add onto it.

Interviewer 2: So it is more that I would like to order.

Clinician: It was more of the magic wand future. Yes.

Interviewer 1: Yeah, we like the magic wand. If a Veteran comes in and is interested in Whole Health, do they fill out the Phi prior to any interaction whether it is prior to a 1-on-1 setting or a group setting. I’m just trying to understand the follow. I know they can pick it up anytime in any office, but do you based on an appointment. What is the triggering event that allows you to send out a PHI to the Veteran to complete.

Clinician: You are exactly right that it is available in many different places or spots a long the way there. (33:20) So people have tried different things, I know that some of our dietitians would send out a packet that included the PHI. They said that people in general weren’t returning them. So, they just sort of started doing them in sessions. For most of our clinicians, if a Veteran hears about Whole health at the primary care visit, then we would try to facilitate a warm hand off. The PHI would not be the first thing that we would do. We want to make that connection and have somebody spark some interest in this idea of patient engagement and the idea of your healthcare being about what’s important to you. Usually, it looks like a warm handoff, a Whole Health orientation, and then the PHI. If everything was going the way that we sort of want to, then they get into How do I take charge of my life” and help and you go through all of those areas as they go a long and then they might get into the clinical care side of Whole Health. All along the way, it is being communicated in their chart. We are working back with the Allied Health and PACT team.

Interviewer 1: I’m going to go back to the magic wand a little bit. If you had your magic wand, breaking it down a little bit. Go step by step. How do you see the PHI or any other forms incorporated into the workflow? Where would you like this to be injected into the process? Taking into consideration what you stated earlier of “I would like the Veteran to be able to enter this information in themself.” Where in the process would you order it for them to do it?

Clinician: I think that it is important for providers or a Whole Health coach to make that personal connection first. So I wouldn’t have them fill out a questionnaire to start and often those are warm handoffs, so it is pretty brief. But making sure that you focus on making the Veteran feel heard and you start to build some rapport with them and then they usually go to orientation. For more of our Veterans, it is still a big shift in the way that we talk about healthcare and their role in healthcare. I think that process of incorporating an “Taking control of my life in health” that makes sense there. Some Veterans opt to go into individual coaching, so making sure that they start with the fit inventory before you direct them to where the coaching is going to go, so I think that it makes sense as we are doing it. While I want to make sure that we have a process that we can follow, I also think what is most important to our Veterans and meeting them where they are with their health journey, so it isn’t always going to look the same. I do like the idea of keeping some flexibility with that. One thing that would be very nice is if they could come to the “Taking charge of my health class” and as they are meeting with you, they could pick up their phone and fill out their PHI on their phone, so they could get a copy and we could to get that information transmitted as well into CPRS. We would be like “Wow, everything is now completed after this.”

Interviewer 1: The magic magic wand is if you can “Hey, while they are in the session as an individual or in a group, can you pull this up on your phone or whatever mobile device they have, they complete whatever section and have it directly transmit to CPRS. Do you need to review them to review it during the group session or do you go back after the session to look at the individual results. 

Clinician: I have found with VVC visits that it can be dangerous to have CPRS open, because if you are sharing a screen and it starts to timeout, then it will pop up whatever screen is about to timeout and that may have someone’s information on it. I generally try to not have CPRS open during a VVC visit, because I don’t want to have pop up on accident. If you’ve ever had that experience happen to you for half a second it will scare you.

Clinician 2: Your heart start racing. You go “Oh no.”

Interviewer 1: I didn’t know that. You are the first people who have mentioned that that is an issue. There are some many apps that providers and clinicians use that people haven’t mentioned that, but it is good to know. 

Clinician: Luckily, I had that happen on an individual session, so it was only the individual’s information that I was working with. But it scared me enough to realize that I never want this to happen in group, so I started to make sure to shut down CPRS when I go into a group, but I don’t want it to pop up. I did hear from someone else this week that they had a scare about that happening in a group situation. So yeah. My way of facilitating a group is to invite people to share and to allow that space to allow that safety that they don’t have to share anything that they don’t feel comfortable with in group. So not everybody will share everything single piece of what they filled out on that. Hopefully, they will share in whatever way they feel comfortable and they will have that shared experience. I think that it is nice to process the PHI in a group. It is different than doing it individually, but I think that they actually help each other explore that in a really nice way. I also make sure that I don’t go to in-depth in group and ask too many probing questions just because I want to respect that it is a difficult process.

Interviewer 1: Have you been able to do virtual group sessions doing the VVC or has it only been one on one? 

Clinician: Yes.

Interviewer 1: Using VVC

Clinician: Yes

Interviewer 2: I’ll move onto asking the health risk assessment. That is another form that you use. What is that used for and when is it used?

Clinician: :confused face: I’m not actually familiar with that. 

Interviewer 2: I saw it on one of the websites that Ming sent prior to this meeting. If you don’t in your workflow that is great. Are there any other questionnaires that you do utilize? You mentioned the Mental Health Checkup and when you use those. Can you talk about when you use those?

Clinician: Other questionnaires that we use…I think our pathways side fo the house and actually our nurse nodes have ACE built into them, which is an engagement measuring system, where we measure patient engagement level. We fill those out. Our partners and our peer specialists are doing those even before the beginning of orientation. We’ll call to set up orientation and they’ll do the ACE measurement there, then we want that repeated in 6-12 months, then we want that repeated in a 6 month form. That is kind of the newer version. We were doing the PAM, which is the Patient Activation Measure. They are very similar, but ACE is free and it is a good measure. It looks more specially at behavioral engagement as oppose to just interest. 

Interviewer 2: That is something that the Veteran fills out or an employee fills it out about the Veteran?

Clinician: The employee does fill that out. So, yes, it is a patient subjective measure. We enter it. 

Interviewer 2: But you are talking to them, so you get the answers and stuff from the Veteran.

Clinician: Right. Exactly. We use that. Of course, we use Mental Health. I think many clinics. Pain clinics and all the different clinics. Of course, we have to do the Columbia suicide risk evaluation any time that enter into a new mental health provider relationship you go and start that with your intake and you follow up if there is any change or repeating it on a different schedule. It depends upon what clinic they are in as to what the risk is for that or how frequently that has to be read ministered. Besides that, it depends upon what particular treatment you are doing. If I’m doing that CBT for chronic pain group, then I’ll do some different pain measures and some different functional pain evaluations. I did another group that was more of a breathing focused resiliency group, so we did a breath resiliency scale. It depends upon targeting your measurement-based assessment with what your intervention is in that instance.

Interviewer 2: Have there been any challenges to any of those questionnaires since COVID?

Clinician: Trying to be respectful of people’s privacy. I will try to submit the out through MyHealtheVet, but not everybody is not on MyHealtheVet. Also the return rate when you send out an assessment versus having somebody doing it in the clinic is abysmal. Then that makes that you need to either live with the low return rate or you have to take that extra step of calling everybody, which is very time consuming and trying to get everyone to do that. 

Interviewer 2: All of the ones that you send through MyHealtheVet, do they trigger an email that they need to be filled out.

Clinician: Yeah. Especially for group, I will send out an email that says like “Thank you for attending group. As we get started, please concern filling out the attached questionnaire and I’ll have them send that back to me. Again, a pretty low return rate.

Interviewer 2: We’ll bring the magic wand back, if you could change that process for any of those, what would you change the process to for those questionnaires.

Clinician: One that relies on a couple of things. One, people have to have MyHealthVet and they have to go into the system and check, because as I understand it, those emails only reside in MyHelatheVet. They do get sent to their main email. So often times, they don’t check off three different boxes. To me, my experience a patient, I have received things that have come as a text message. That is the easiest. Because you can just agree or disagree to take that inventory or measure right them.Or reply. Sometimes they say reply with this or that. That is the easiest way for me. The other thing that I have noticed from when I talk to Veterans. When they talk about appointment reminders, things like that. They are kind of with the rest of society where we have switched over from this long format of email to really more text messages. That gets responded to more instantly, then having to go in and check your email. Or logging into MyHealtheVet.

Interviewer 2: So improving the notification strategy of how they find out that they have these things to complete.

Clinician: Right.

Interviewer 2: Talk about the triggering mechanism for these other questionnaires. Somebody through the course of these courses decides that these need to be answered. So that is the trigger for when these other questionnaires are sent. There isn’t some more consistent part of the process. It is just somebody decides and orders these questionnaires.

Clinician: It depends. The Joint Commission has standards on making sure that you incorporate measurement-based care into mental health treatments, so most of us do that automatically. At in-take we’ll have whatever area that we are working in. If you are working in a PTSD clinic, then you administering a PCL there. Then, doing that every so often. In our note, we have to address that we are tracking progress toward their treatment goals and one of the ways that they want to do that is quantitative and not just qualitative, so we use those measurement-based measures, so we can say that we are tracking how their depression is responding to treatment, so for individuals. Depending what you are treating and how frequently those things get administered, like the PHQ is et on a 2 week. So you wouldn’t do it on a weekly basis, because they are evaluating the past two weeks, so it depends on the different measures. That is another thing that we figured out with the ACT and PAM. We were administering it too frequently and looking at some of the research that was out there. We really can’t expect to see any kind of shift in activation until people have had 9 to 10 touches, so we shifted how frequently we were administering that. Otherwise, it was just a nuisance. You can get assessment fatigue with patients where they are tired of doing all these measures and if it isn’t giving us good information then I don’t want to wear people out on doing the assessment. I think it is disheartening to the providers to see that things aren’t changing and it is just not time yet for that to actually have had a shift. So yeah, it just depends. For pain group, I have a 12-week pain group that I do and I’ll do in-take, mid, and final. For the resiliency group, because it is shorter, I’ll usually just do a pre and post on that one, but I like to do things if they are getting a clinic level of care. I think to do things at least every 6 weeks, but that is in an ideal world and definitely not COVID world. 

Interviewer 2:In the Mental Health Checkup, you can set them up so they trigger and send? Is that something that you like particularly for some other questionnaires that are not currently part of the Mental Health check-up. Would you like that as well, that you could set that up and it automatically sends?

Clinician: Yeah. I think that it is ideal if we can have everything consolidated into one system, because you know I haven’t had the chance to see what our system will look like when we go to Cerner, but one of the biggest complaints with clinical providers in the VA is that we have to so many different systems that feed into CPRS, but it means that you have to go log into this piece and then you have to go log into that other piece, you have to go log into image viewer, and that other piece. Before you know it, you have gone three screens deep in CPRS, anyway that you can consolidate that and have fewer notes and fewer screens I think your clinicians will thank you. 

Interviewer 2: Anyone else one the call have any other questions about other questionnaires?

Interviewer 1: I have a quick clarification question and this is also building off of your comment about “not having to remember to initiate”. Let’s take the ACE for example, the best time to read minister that is every 6 months, so you would like a system that automatically generates that or send a notice to a Veteran. It is not necessarily tied to any appointment or milestone or event for that 6 month generation. Do you need to tie it to anything? Or when the Veteran completes an ACE or you completed it with them, should the system say 6- months from now send another alert out? Is it reminding you or the Veteran to complete it?

Clinician: That is a good question. What we are doing with the ACE now. We don’t have anything automated. It is completely on the user to remember to do those things. We tend to think that is the coaches responsibility. You are going through this with this patient. Since we do this one at the beginning at orientation, we do that second one at the end of “Taking Charge of my life and health.” It works out perfectly, because you are in that 6-12 week window where we wanted to get that second ACE anyway. As they go  out into individual coaching hopefully after that, then it would be on the coach on when to look at when was the previous ACE administered. We do have it built into the coaching note template that the ACE can be administered in that coaching session. The questionnaire is in there and the scoring is in there for that. There is a way of tracking. We have health factors associated with the initial ACE and the 6-12 week ACE as well as the 6+ month ACE. You can kind of go back and look at everything in that tab that I was showing earlier where we have the PHI information and you can find ACE information too, so you can quickly check when was the last time that they did this, but there is no automated reminder and the other thing is that I wouldn’t necessarily want to say let’s send this out broadly to everybody to complete every 6 months. Activation measure means that you are involved in something  that we are actually looking at increasing activation. Maybe you are already activated or maybe you are completely unactivated. Answering a questionnaire is maybe not the best way of engaging you.

Interviewer 1: Or it could link to the last appointment in a series. So you are thinking event based?

Clinician 2: To her point, a random sending but you don’t have an appointment connection seems kind of out of the blue and sometimes people respond positively and sometimes people respond really negatively to that. I’m really aware of the cognitive load of the various level of providers and if there are things that an be automated. There are some measures that are helpful to talk out, because it is useful to have the conversation and there are some measures where that conversation doesn’t give a lot fo extra value. It is just something to think about. 
