Dec. 8 Whole Health provider (Also an emergency medicine provider)


Key Takeaways
- Believes the Personal Health Inventory to be a shared experience that provider should help Veterans fill out. 
- Believes that a completed Personal Health Inventory should be available online for the Veteran to review, to show other non-VA providers and even discuss with their families.
- Thinks our opportunity lies more with the PACT teams. 
- Knows that some of the Whole Health specialists, such as dietitians and coaches, would definitely be interested in tracking data from health devices. 


Interview

Dr: We don’t really collect pre-appointment information in the Er. In Whole Health, we collect oodles of information on patients. In terms of outpatient appointments, I wouldn’t really know about that.

Interviewer: Well, think about your Whole Health workflow and see if there is any way that we can help there as well. I was going to ask about your background and training and stuff…you are ER and Whole Health.


Dr: I am ER and Whole Health. I’m board certified emergency medicine and work mostly in the emergency department, but I am the education director of Whole Health at our institution and I’m a clinical champion for the VISN. I do a lot of work for Whole Health. We definitely have paperwork, but our workflow is different from an outpatient appointment. I know they would definitely need help computerizing those types of things, because they are always complaining about it.

Interviewer: Can you tell me a little bit about the workflow for Whole Health? And what does the patient do prior to coming to Whole Health? I looked and I saw that it is the Personal Health Inventory. Is that correct?

Dr: That is one of the things. It is a whole different beast. It depends on what they are coming for, how they are being introduced, if they are going to see a coach. It depends upon what institution, because Whole Health is now being released to different institutions differently. We are a flagship site, so we have a lot more programs than a regular VA would that wasn’t a flagship site. Some places have coaches, so places don’t. We have THRIVE, which is a 14-week clinician appointment. It just got approved as a national program, so it is going to be released everywhere. That is more of a shared group medical appointment, so we collect a lot fo data. We collect research, because we are doing a lot of research projects a long the way, so it is…The workflow would depend on each case or type of case and definitely not standardized across the VA.

Interviewer: It is not standardized, but it is expanding.

Dr: Oh, yes. 

Interviewer: Knowing that we are doing this and putting it on va.gov, are there any of those types of questionnaires that could be applicable or could you something on there for someone to fill out prior to actually coming or engaging with Whole Health or throughout the experience with the team?

Dr: Oh definitely. Say for instance that someone was going through our THRIVE course, which is a 14-week group medical appointment. You could ask them to fill out, because during the first session, we collect….well first, we have an orientation to make sure that they want to be there and they are appropriate for the group and all that stuff. After that, they spend a good amount of time filling out a form and a research form. They have to give written consent for that. There is a lot of steps to that. It takes a long time. It is nice to have us there to help with the paperwork, but they could definitely start it online. Definitely like the basic information. The clerks have to call them and schedule them. A lot of that information could probably be put online. PHI for sure.

Interviewer: What are they trying to capture to get them scheduled? What is the type of information is helpful to you before they show up or in general?

Dr: To be truthful, all of that is already in the computer, because this normally comes from a consult. Somebody some place will make a consult. Make a phone call to somebody saying this person wants to join or this person might call and ask for one thing like a pass to the YMCA and all of the sudden they are going to be put into the orientation program, because you have to go through the orientation program to have any….um…so like I say it is not very standardized. Definitely with the PHI, but you wouldn’t do that prior to your appointment, because it is something that we walk you through. You have to understand what we are asking. It is quite an engaged experience. You could fill out a PHI on your own, but sometimes you need support, encouragement, and examples of how it is done. We do that at orientation or our first meeting at THRIVE. We do do that at along the way. It is usually a guided things. More standardized things would be like primary care. Like have you had any symptoms lately. Definitely a COVID screening cause we want to screen everyone right now. Have you had any symptoms lately. Like you would if you were going a doctor’s appointment. 

Interviewer: Most of that stuff they fill out with somebody while they are there. What happens to those forms after they are done filling them out? Do you put them back into CPRS? Or what you do you with those forms?

Dr: Now that is an issue. We want everyone to have access to their PHI. Now, that would be something for them to have access to that. We want everyone to put into the system, so it can be accessed by other people once it is filled out. They are doing that, but they aren’t really doing it. There are someways that they are scanning it, but it doesn’t really show up anywhere like as a page. Everybody has a little tab at the bottom where you can find like their discharge summary, last notes…well even a note. I think that is where it is right now. You can see if someone PHI, but you have to know how to look for it, but having a tab say PHI. That would really engrain, which the national office wants to do, which is engrain PHI into the whole workflow. So I as an ER doctor could look at their PHI to see what is important to them. What are they working on right now. What is their problem. Why are they here? That would be good once it is done that it is easily accessible.

Interviewer: What about not only surfacing it to provider but also to the Veteran as well? So we could put that in a portal or something.

Dr: Oh yeah. That would be great. To have access to that and show their family member how they have improved or show their other doctors on the outside what they are working on that would totally be helpful, I think.

Interviewer: After the orientation, is it a one time thing where they sit with you and fill out this questionnaire? What about follow-ups after that, are there a lot of forms later in the process?

Dr: That is quite specific to each patients. For THRIVE for example, but that is in TAMPA and we have given it to a few other VISNS and now it has been made a national (9:19) course, but that is going to take time. In Tampa, if you come to THRIVE it is very long medical appointment. It is a 14-week program. It happens for 14 weeks. And we put a note in after every visit. We will revisit that PHI on every time there is a new discussion on a new topic, which is every week for 14 weeks. We do revisit the PHI to see where they fall in the PHI on that topic, but it isn’t something that we necessarily updating in the form. We are just talking about it in a group. You will have maybe a coach. In Tampa, we have coaches. Some other places have coaches. The coaches may update the PHI with the person, because  they are working on a goal. The PHI changes every day. If you did a PHI everyday, it would change every day. Generally, the big experiences stay the same. I want to work on family and relationships. All of that intermingles with other things, so it depends upon what is happening in your life whether that is important or not. You might want to work on that and tomorrow you get diagnosed with cancer and now that becomes your biggest concern. Now you want to work on your health or my spirituality or whatever it is or whatever you want to work on. A coach might update that form. They might be working on something and update it. So it could be updated.

Interviewer: So, it really centers on that one form. It isn’t like there is 5 or 6 other forms.

Dr: No. Not form wise.

Interviewer: In your role in Whole Health, how is secure messaging utilized? Do people add documents or send information to you through there as well?

Dr: Yes. I don’t deal with that often, but I definitely chart on patients in CPRS. A lot of the coaches and Whole Health partners and certain of the clinicians, such as the psychologists, they might do secure messaging. They use VVC for a lot of the appointment. For us, I don’t really use secure messaging. I will definitely make and encounter when I see a patient in a THRIVE group, but I do more education.

Interviewer: In those follow-up situations, would it be helpful for the Veteran to give you an update prior to coming into the session?

Dr: Yeah, that would be helpful. It isn’t necessary, but it would be helpful. THRIVE is two-hours long, so we are going to hash it all out in group. It is almost like a psycho-therapy group. We are going to hash it out there, so for THRIVE, Yeah, you might want to know if anyone is having problems before the group. I’m telling you that Whole Health is a department that is supposed to be interwoven through your entire experience. Through your entire healthcare. It is about a cultural transformation more than it is a specific thing, so this might play much better into PACT teams. And Whole Health is part of PACT as well, so we have for instance Whole Health coaches, who are PACT coaches, so they work inside PACT. They are primary care related coaches. You might come in for an appointment and before that appointment, you might want to get information. They have to ask a thousand screening questions. When was the last time that you had your flu shot? All the screening and that takes up a lot of time and they always get annoyed about that. That is the slowest part. Even for the ER, that is the slowest part. Some of that might be captured pre, but I think that some of that might be better during. I don’t know if you can say “Have you had suicidal thoughts on a form? Prior to or are you not capturing that moment. I think that you still have to ask it that day. I don’t know how that works. The PACT teams would collect information on the patient. Has anything changed? Maybe the coach would reach out to the patient before they come in to do some screening questions. I can definitely hook you up with some coaches to see what they ask. Has anything changed on your PHI? Why are you even coming in to see me this time? There might be somethings before a regular PACT appointment that I wouldn’t necessarily in THRIVE. The only clinical thing that I do in THRIVE in Whole Health. Clinicians do THRIVE. PACT coaches would do that primary care. 

Interviewer: I definitely want to hear more about your experience with THRIVE then. If there is anyway that we could potentially could help with that. 

Dr: I’ll ask them too.

Interviewer: Even if you think of anything after this, definitely reach out to the team and let us know. 

Dr: I’ll chat with the THRIVE providers and see if there is anything that frustrates them or I know that a lot of the research, we would rather not sit there for 20 minutes and collect the data, but some things are just better done. To get them done correctly. I think some things are better done in the moment. One of the questions that we asked in the screening tools and it is a validated screening tool, so we can’t change it that everybody does wrong. They don’t circle what they are supposed to circle, but if you had a pre-screening (you could have instructions to it). Not sitting there and making sure that they circle what they need to circle. It is a happiness face and nobody ever circles it. They circle the thing below it and not the face. 

Interviewer: If there is anything that can do to make it more meaningful for the appointments to happen. If there is anything that we could capture let us know. I guess that is one good question, if you had a magic wand, what would you like to be able to do to maximize your time with patients?

Dr: Again, this is hard to separate my ER brain with my Whole Health brain, because they are so not in alignment with each other. I’m trying to make them in align with each other. For patients in THRIVE, I’m not the right person to ask, because I don’t find. THRIVE is such a loving experience and everyone is so communicative. That is what it is all about. I don’t find anything really frustrating about it. I’ll think about it more now that I know what you’re asking and really work through the day. Like how does it work out. I do see a lot of things in the ER. I see a lot of my nurses getting frustrated that they have to collect 300 pieces of information on these people before they are seen. That slows the process down. It slows us down. It slows the screening, the triage. We have a project where we are working on COVID manager and we have a garage now where we are screening all the patients. We see 60 people come through that screening and that is split between 4 people. I mean 60 for me, 60 for someone else and I’m asking the same questions over and over again. It would be great if before they came through the drive-thru, that is what I call it now. Before they come to the drive-thru garage, and I go have you had any fever, shortness of breath and I ask the same questions over again. It would be great if you had a thing come up that they answered these questions before they arrived. I mean the people that are sick aren’t going to answer that question, but the people that are not sick and are just coming in. And maybe a lot of things could be prevented from coming in if they asked these questions and they were actually supposed to go to the outpatient click to get a swab and they came to the wrong place that happens every 5 seconds. We have another section for like the outpatient people that aren’t emergency patients. For the regular patients that are coming in have you been suicidial, have you had your flu shot, have you have your neumo vac, your shingles shots, things that just aren’t pertinent to our visit. They might be pertinent, but they probably aren’t and they have to ask all those questions. Have you had a bowel movement. There are some random questions that need to be asked that aren’t about why they are there for that probably could be collected prior to the patient arriving.

Interviewer: It sounds like a lot of the clinical reminders stuff. Collecting it beforehand would be helpful.
Dr: Or having that sucked in from CPRS, because it should be in CPRS. The nurse has to go look for that. The nurse has to go look for that. I’m like I never know where to find that. I do, but I don’t. I always have to ask the nurse. Working with PACT in Whole Health, I know that they have a lot of frustrations with information not being accessible in CPRS. Information from outside. Things are scanned into the computer eventually. Like lab results, somebody will come in and say Oh I was at Sarasota Memorial and they sent me here. Well, why? Because I had an abnormal lab. What was it? I don’t know. You spend all this time trying to figure it out, then you have to repeat all the labs again. Then, it wasn’t even abnormal anyway. It would just be better if you had that information pulled in. I guess that is what they talk about when they talk about modernization.

Interviewer: Speaking of Fitbits, before I transition to questions about devices, I wanted to open it up to the team if they have any other questions about questionnaires.

Interviewer 2: Can you explain to me what a PACT team is?

Dr: It is the primary care team. They break the teams. Many many years ago, they decided to create these medical homes, so instead of everyone being random, everyone has a home that they belong to. That was a big thing 10 years ago. Everyone is assigned to a PACT team. They are a multi-disciplinary team. There is a provide Ron it, which is a doctor or a PA, ARMP. There is a psychologist that is on the team. In our case, there are coaches that are on the team. They have dietitians on the team. Those people are your team, so you can go to any of those people. Usually, they just have one appointment with one member of the team. The team talks to each other. They might meet with others as well, but that is their team.

Interviewer 2: You mentioned that it would be really helpful, if a Veteran completes some form to share it back with them to show their progress.

Dr: Again, I don’t think I’m the right person for you. I can think of a thousand other people for you, because I don’t do primary care. But I know that they use the patient health portal.

Interviewer 2: MyHealthyVet.

Dr: Yeah. Sometimes I do see it, because they bring it in and say, do you want to see my last lab results from MyHealthyVet, but I know that primary care uses it very much. I sees the messages in the computer. When someone sends a patient to the ER for some reason, I’ll see all the messages between them on secure messaging that say “Oh you should go to the ER.” Which is usually what it said. 

Interviewer 2: Don’t minimize this conversation, because you are providing us with tons of information that we haven’t heard before. 

Dr: I can just hear the thousands of people who I have heard complaining about these things and I’m like I should send them to so and so.

Interviewer 2: We will want that list from you for sure.

Dr: It is just that in the ER, we are quite isolated. Nobody talks to us, nobody cares. We are quite isolated from a lot of that. We see it, but we don’t really communicate with patients on messaging and stuff like that. 

Interviewer: Your feedback about putting the personal health inventory online, so the Veteran can view it after filling it out was very good feedback.

Dr: Yeah, we have been talking about that for years. Our chief of Whole Health would faint with happiness, if she found out that the PHI could be spread. We all would. That is really how you make it useful to anyone other than us. Other than the THRIVE group or something, because can’t see the useful of it until it is right there in front of us. An ER doctor could peak and say oh, this is important to them. They are working on these thing or this thing isn’t going to change, so we aren’t going to work on that today. Sharing decisions like that.

Interviewer: Now, I’ll shift to devices. Do you routinely have your patients send you any data from devices?

Dr: Again, I’m thinking of 12 people who would have an answer to this. Yes, they do use them. They are loving some of the VA apps and certain people don’t stop talking about them. I’m thinking about a tai chi instructor and a yoga instructor who talk about these things constantly. The wellness department uses that a lot. Psychology and that…

Interviewer: What in particular do they use?

Dr: They were giving out devices at one point. Again, I’m going to hook you up with somebody who knows the answer to that, because they were giving out a devices at one point. A Fitbit type thing, where they were collecting data and sharing data. There are loads of apps that they recommend to. The coaches as well, because the coaches are the ones who would be utilizing that information. A coach is having a coaching session and they want to look at the data and say I saw that you did this on so-and-so date. Because they are making small goals and they are using these things to keep them accountable for their goals. 

Interviewer: What data points are they interested in? Is it activity, stress, sleep, resting heart rate, activity per minute? Do you even get into blood glucose, blood oxygen, blood pressure? What have you heard is interesting? Or what is interesting to you?

Dr: Yes. Everything that you just said, because they are all doing different things. I think that is what I’m trying to get across is that they are all doing different things. The PHI revolves around the Whole Health wheel, which is all the things of your life that are important to you. That make you you and make you function. That is surrounded by your clinical care. That is surrounded by your community and relationships. It is all of those things. If you are a diabetic and you are working on a smart goal to get your A1C down. You might be interested in that data points, especially that dietitians. They want to know those things. If you are having sleep problems and you are coming to one of our intensive sleep courses or you are coming to THRIVE and we are talking about that. Then, we are interested in how much you slept and logs related to that. If you are coming in for, you are working to lose weight, then we want to know your weight. If you are working on happiness and you are depressed or anxiety levels, we have thousands of things that we could be measuring that could help us with those goals. I can see everything single person in the department asking for something different. I can see the psychologist, I want to know how many hours…and I want them to put this information into the computer before they come in. It would make my life easier. I could see the dietitian wanting to know what they ate, how much they ate, what their fat intake is. There is a million data points that you could collect that would be important to whatever appointment they were having with that special people that wants that. 

Interviewer: With THRIVE, are their particular ones that you look at?

Dr: No. Think of THRIVE. It isn’t psychotherapy, but think of it as psychotherapy, because it is a shared experience. It is an educational experience. For me too. Everyone is learning though this. You are learning certain techniques through this and you could collect data. It is more experiential but you could collect data if you want to know if it was working for research purposes. We do have a session on sleep and you might want to track that. But we send you back to your coach. In THRIVE< you are learning what is important to you, what matters to you. Why this is happening to you? How this has affected you over your life? Options for you and then we are sending you back to your coach, your health care provider and your team to say go work on what you have gotten out of this. It is more of an educational part of it. You are making connections with other community members (other Veterans) and you are working through it all together. It is really a shred experience. It is in terms a medical treatment, because we are talking about and working through things. But we aren’t collecting your vital signs before you come in.

Interviewer: No, but maybe If we did this or if the Veteran has insight into all of these different data points that could inform their discussion of when they come to THRIVE.

Dr: Yeah, sure. Having the information would be helpful, but each session is a different topic. Session three for instance is sleep. Session whatever is sexual health. You have intuitive eating. You have relationships. You have spirit and soul. We cover your entire wheel. We cover resources. We’re working through that topic to find out what is important to you in that sphere of your life, which is why I say that it is more like psychotherapy. From that, you are going to go ahead and work on it. That is why I’m going to send you to a coach, you don’t have to work on that yourself. The coach is going to utilize that information. You asked during THRIVE if you could have a meeting with me (the psychologist might say) about sleep. The psychologist comes to the meeting by the way. They will be there each time that a special subject matter expert will be there in some of the courses. If the subject is sleep, the therapist will be there and might say if anyone wants to talk to me, let me know. Then at the end of the session or they might call their coach and say I want to make an appointment the psychologist about my sleep. They might recommend to come to an insomnia 101 or they might just do a 1:1 cognitive behavioral therapy. Their coach is going to be the one to hold them together. At their weekly meeting the coach will say I saw that you have a meeting with Dr. So-and-so about your sleep. How did that go? How was the experience for you? What are you now on your scale of 1 to 5 on how you feel about your sleep? You see act you mean.

Interviewer: Yeah You explanation right now has definitely helped me understand the THRIVE, because in the beginning I was like If they did the pre-health inventory in my heath. If they identified certain areas was THRIVE where they came and talked about (if sleep was their issues) sleep all the time. Now, I know that each session is different. 

Dr: Yes. That is why I say that it is more about education, because you are learning about each of these things and all of the things that come a long with it. During sleep, we talk about your sleep, the group’s sleep, experiences with sleep, what you can do to help, what is the true cycle of sleep, How is ti supposed to work. Maybe you think that there is a problem and there really isn’t. Based upon your age, maybe that is supposed to be how much you are sleeping. Then there is a lot of discussion and they go Oh I didn’t know that was the way. And you learn from the group. So you might be addressing somebody’s specific issue in the group, but it isn’t a data point driven thing. In some of them you could. You could do data points on anybody and it can inform your decision much more. If I looked at your PHI. I could say that I know that this group are all coming in and they all have sleep as their number 1 thing, then maybe we will send more time on sleep. I mean I don’t think that is what it is really for. The coaches would love that and in our institution it is a coach. In other places, it could be a partner or a clinician in a different group. Or a primary care doctor. You have to remember that the goal of Whole Health and this is something that we all forget about. Is that it is not supposed to be a separate thing. It is supposed to be whole across the Department of Veterans Affairs and the world on changing the way that we approach health care and changing what health care is. Approaching it from what matters to you and not what’s the matter with you. That is our catch phrase. I think data points are what’s the matter with you. And we are trying to approach it in a more holistic way. We have acupressure, acupuncture and I’m sure the they want to know. I’m sure if I was having this conversation in fort of them, they would all go “No, I want to know the patient’s blood pressure before they come to the appointment. I don’t want to waste time asking them all these questions before they come in. I’m sure if I ask my energy medicine guru. I’m sure that she’ll say I want to know on a chakra scale. Things that each complimentary medicine ( and that is a different thing…the alternative and complimentary medicine) wants their own information. I feel like I’m telling you the big picture. I’ll get you all of these people’s information.

Interviewer: Yes, we definitely want to talk to all of those people as well and get their feedback. Ask them some of these same questions and see how can help more.

Dr: Does anybody else have any other questions? 

Interviewer 3: You were talking about your care plan and where you are documenting all of the different areas that they might be interested in getting care on. Is that just in a note? I’m not familiar with CPRS and how you document the patient’s care plan and their ongoing treatment.

Dr: Yes, it is in a note.

Interviewer 3: I’m just trying to think about how we can kind of push the kinds of things that you are interested in. Because it isn’t discrete in a note, I wasn’t sure how we could get it to the Veteran to document some of those things in the clipboard for you.

Dr: Each person might be different. They might write in the note what they talked about, they gave the patient all this paperwork that they were suppose to fill out. I’m sure that they have paperwork that I want to you fill out your A1C. Or the primary care, I want you to keep a log of your blood pressure. I mean patients come to the ER all the time with their logs. 

Interviewer 3: I think that if there isn’t a cross specialty care plan that is where I think that makes it tricky. 

Dr: But I think that PACT does do things with that. PACT is primary care and they collect all kinds of data. I think your end goal should be PACT and they are frustrated all the time. And they say it loudly. They are asking for help. Tell them I sent you. Then, they’ll be my friend.

Interviewer 2: Do you send patients? Not you specifically, are you familiar with when the dietitian or PACT team send patients home with information. Is it with something like an After Visit Summary or is it something verbal? 

Dr: I want to say that it is mostly verbal. I’m going to take about the ER now, because I have no idea what primary care does. I have zero idea. In the ER, my boss tells me that the nurse send people home with generated things based off of my notes. Like if you came in for the flu, then you will go home with flu information. I have not spoken to a single nurse that knows what this things is. One or two are like oh yeah, we do that. But none of them can show me what it looks like. I’ve never seen a patients come in with something other than some general thing that says you were in the ER. I don’t know that that is. There is not a things from the ER perspective. I mean there is, but I don’t know if anyone knows where it is. I know that we are getting Cerner and I used to use Cerner in the old world. And we used to give like discharge things that were [motions like it is a very large stack of paper]. I don’t know if it came from Cerner or what company it came from, but it was 90 pages long. Most of it was medical legal stuff. I know they have something, but I haven’t seen it. It doesn’t seem that helpful. 

Interviewer 2: I wasn’t sure, because each medical center seems to have their own processes and do their own thing.

Dr: I think that is ture. I think that some paces will have invested in a discharge. All you have to do is purchase a discharge thing. Somebody probably said oh yeah, that is a good thing. Some probably invented in that. And some may not know that it is missing. 

Interviewer: In regards to the PACT teams, are they at all the facilities or at specific ones. I think that I heard different things.

Dr: You got me. I think that getting you in touch with somebody who is involved in both of those things (Whole Health and PACT) would be the best thing, because truthfully the ER is so different than primary care. I have no idea what goes on there. 

Interviewer 2: You are out of Tampa.

Dr: Yes. I should be proud of that. We are ahead of the curve on a lot of things. Especially with Whole Health, because we are a flagship location. A lot of things that we are going have absolutely no useless somewhere else. Like coaches. Some departments are run by one person, who is actually a clinician practicing. Like a Social Worker who is still doing social work, but doing this Whole Health stuff like 10 hours a week. You know hat I mean. 

Interviewer 2: I didn’t know that Tampa is a flagship for Whole Health.
