# Conversation Guide: Direct Deposit Updates

### [Staging](https://staging.va.gov)

## Warm-up Questions (2 minutes)

1. **Before we start, can you tell me a little bit about yourself? (If stuck, prompt to ask about service experience, where they live, their work).**

- 39 years old
- Army for 2 years 
- received benefits for 5 years now and still learning the process dealing with the VA.

2. **Do you have a VA.gov account? If so, about how often do you use the website?**

- Yes, I do, probably once to twice a week.

3. **Do you receive direct deposit payments from the VA? If so, for what?**

- Yes, I do.

## Navigating to Direct Deposit (5 – 10 minutes)

Alright, we are now on VA.gov. We have already signed you in as a test user named Johnnie Weaver.

1. **Without clicking anything, can you please tell me where you think a VA.gov user might go to update their direct deposit information with the VA?**

- I see the information I would probably go to I guess the username and click on that. It would give you the account information that says direct deposit.

2. **OK, now that we have talked through it, please show me how you would find where to update your direct deposit information with the VA.**

- (Goes to Account Settings) Ok. I went to the wrong thing. 
- I guess the thing where it says direct deposit, I’m used to seeing the history and if you want to change your direct deposit. 
- Not really, I am just used to seeing it on benefits differently, it’s the payment history that I would be looking for. There is a link where you can update or change your direct deposit. Yes. Because 9 times out of 10 it pulls up other information other than direct deposit. Having them in the same area it could be confusing. Yes. 
- I could probably go back to the home page and I see disability and see your payment history. It is possible it tells us to go to ebenfits to view the payments. This is a little bit confusing. 
- I would go to the search button and put in direct deposit (Searches for direc deposit). I am having trouble it won’t let me click on search. It has two different links, but I would click on the first one (clicks on first link, goes to direct deposit content page, and sees that the direct deposit functionality is in the profile). 

3. **How did this meet your expectations?**

- It is very confusing because if you are not used to using the computer you wouldn’t know where you go to change the direct deposit.
- Going through the motion and having to type in direct deposit (to search), if you don’t really use the computer often you would not know you would need to do that.
- Once you get onto the page when it says click here to change your direct deposit and if you can’t do it online you can call or go to the office.

4. **What could this be improved?**

- To get to the direct deposit a little easier for people no use to using the computer. 
- On the home page have a link for direct deposit for people don’t have to search where to see where they need to go, and it will take them directly to it.
- Natural place: Me personally I would not have expected it to be under your profile, since it is your profile it has to deal with your name, address and number, like personal information not banking.

## Direct Deposit in the Profile

Now we are in the user profile. Please scroll until you see the "Direct Deposit" section.

1. **First, tell me what you are looking at here.**

- (Not in notes)

2. **Where would you go to update your direct deposit information for the GI Bill?**

- You would go to ebenfits to change the information; you can call the 1800 or go to the nearest regional office or by mail. 

3. **What should you do if you think you are the victim of fraud?**

- You would call the 1800 number and select number 5.

4. **Without clicking anything, what do you think will happen when you click Edit?**

- A screen will pop up where you can change the information.

OK you can click Edit. 

1. **(Once modal is open) Can you tell me what you are looking at here?**

- It is used to edit the direct deposit information where you need to include the routing number account number and type.

2. **Why do you think each field is blank?**

- Because you are putting in new direct deposit information it is waiting for you to put in the information need.

3. **OK, now we are going to have you update this information. For the routing number, please enter 124003116. You can enter anything into the Account Number and Account Type field.**

- They have a picture of a check that will show you where your routing number and account number is.

4. **(If they have clicked Update, direct them to reopen the form) How did this form meet your expectations?**
- **(If applicable) What was clear? What did you find to be confusing?**

- It meets it very well.
-	If you’re not use to placing things in the system it shows you where to find the information and click update it automatically does it for you.

5. **What could this be improved?**

- No

## Direct Deposit Content Page

(URL is https://staging.va.gov/change-direct-deposit-beta)

**Note**: We may do this sectin before the profile section if someone searches for Direct Deposit instead of navigating right to the profile.

1. **If you needed more information on direct deposit, how would you find it?**

- I would search Direct Deposit and click on the first link.

(Assuming they search) Alright, I have that page open in another tab, so I will navigate there for you. (Once they open the page):

1. **Can you take a look over this page and talk to me about what you see on this page?**

- I see there are many ways to update the direct deposit and pension and education benefits. From what I was told that your education benefits do not fall under the same thing as your disability and they don’t run on the same thing. You must keep you benefits all updated because they don’t do it on the same system. For people that don’t want to change in online can fill out a form or go into the office. 

2. **(Change wording depending if profile has already been visited) How would you update your direct deposit info for comp and pen? OR How would you navigate to your profile to update your direct deposit info?**

- You would click on go to the profile

3. **How would you update your direct deposit info for the GI Bill and other education benefits?**

- From what I was told that your education benefits do not fall under the same thing as your disability and they don’t run on the same thing. You must keep you benefits all updated because they don’t do it on the same system. For people that don’t want to change in online can fill out a form or go into the office. 
- You would go to ebenfits to change the information; you can call the 1800 or go to the nearest regional office or by mail. 

4. **How else could you update your direct deposit information if you did not want to do it online?**

- You would go to ebenefits to change the information; you can call the 1800 or go to the nearest regional office or by mail. 

5. **How could you update the address associated with your direct deposit info?**

- (Not in notes)

6. **How did this page meet your expectations?**

- Expectations: it has all of the information that you need to know like direct deposit, mailing address, and the rating of 30% or where you can file a claim for increase.

7. **What could this be improved?**

- Nothing

## Post-Task Interview - 2 minutes

1. **Overall, how did you feel about the entire experience we looked at today?**

- It was an eye opener that made me want to go back and look at the information on VA.GOV and it will allow me to help my friends that have not used it would let me help them through the process for direct deposit. 
- On the home screen it now has where you can do the claim so I would go back and look at that to since I have been doing it on ebenefits.

2. **In addition to anything you have already mentioned, how could this overall experience be improved?**

- Actually, there really is no improvement but to make it easier for those that aren’t used to using a computer have a link to change the direct deposit. 
