# Conversation Guide: Direct Deposit Updates

### [Staging](https://staging.va.gov)

## Warm-up Questions (2 minutes)

1. **Before we start, can you tell me a little bit about yourself? (If stuck, prompt to ask about service experience, where they live, their work).**

- I am a Veteran, served 30 years retired in 2004, live in [redacted]. That’s about it.

2. **Do you have a VA.gov account? If so, about how often do you use the website?**

- I do.

3. **Do you receive direct deposit payments from the VA? If so, for what?**

- Uh, not very often. I occasionally use it. I mostly use myhealthevet. 
- Direct deposit- no I do not. I have a disability payment, but it comes by my retirement pay in the Army. (Samara's note: they do receive direct deposit, but it sounds like it is from the Army via retirement benefits and not the VA).


## Navigating to Direct Deposit (5 – 10 minutes)

Alright, we are now on VA.gov. We have already signed you in as a test user named Johnnie Weaver.

1. **Without clicking anything, can you please tell me where you think a VA.gov user might go to update their direct deposit information with the VA?**

- Well that would be in their account settings.
- Yeah, I am sure there is a settings account somewhere on the page where it talks about their individual account with passwords.

2. **OK, now that we have talked through it, please show me how you would find where to update your direct deposit information with the VA.**

- I would guess it would be up here at the name. where it says profile or account, I guess account. (reading page)I would guess maybe settings.
- Next- Click manage settings, I would think it has to do with ID setting up an account. It says sign in or set up.
- Connected accounts because I assume it would be some type of banking think that would be associated with the VA. Maybe no on the VA.GOV but having to do with your settings. You have account, security, verification. So, connecting accounts would be my next choice. They can’t find any so then I would go back to search. Type in direct deposit. There are recommendations, I would read through the recommendation, Update contact and direct deposit. Click on that. 
- Clarification update- it says change direct deposit information and it goes to sign in and create an account. 
- Now I would go to my profile but there are other ways to change it. 
- Go to profile- There’s good ole Johnny, mailing address, home address, I don’t know if any of that is good. I’m glad to see he’s an army guy. 

3. **How did this meet your expectations?**

- It was fine, now that I know where it was it would be easier to find. The search tool found it quickly and should have used it from the start. 
- It is about what I expected; I don’t know unless you have a flashing button that says hit direct deposit you have to expect to search around on the page.
- What did you find to be confusing?- Normally if you have a direct deposit I would like to have found some type of connection under my account, I was confused to see that there was no control over direct deposit under account settings.
- Profile- It felt a little confusing , ya know if you had a link that has direct deposit. I went to setting because that is were your account, setting, security or money like direct deposit that is where I expect to find it.

4. **What could this be improved?**

- The only thing I can think of is if you had on the main page a drop down that had different things like myhealthevet, direct deposit, va job search where you can drop it down and see direct deposit I would have found it that way instead of searching. 
- Clarification- Yes. Exactly. You know the fastest would be a button that says direct deposit and you can click on it. 

## Direct Deposit in the Profile

Now we are in the user profile. Please scroll until you see the "Direct Deposit" section.

1. **First, tell me what you are looking at here.**

- Ok, so. Direct deposit information for disability compensation, bank, account number and type.

2. **Where would you go to update your direct deposit information for the GI Bill?**

- I would have to look down further, this has contact, well basically I don’t see the GI bill information. You would have to back out and go to the education. 
- (Samara points out GI Bill FAQ) No, I did not see it. I mean if it was a different heading or bolded or large typed I probably would have seen it. It’s not where I would have expected it. 
- (Suggests that the GI bill information show separately) I would have it as a separate thing either above or below the disability.

3. **What should you do if you think you are the victim of fraud?**

- You should report that. I would probably go to the beginning and search fraud. 
- (Was having some GTM issues) I will say that this is a little artificial as in when were doing the chat the pages gets about half or the third the size of the webpage on the computer. In the meeting that page above is the video of me and it takes up about a third of the page. That made it bigger, I am looking at the bank accounts and type like that, I would not look here for fraud. Like I said I would look at the start by searching fraud. This is in a category that has to do with direct deposit, it just doesn’t fit in with the banking information even when talking about being a victim of bank fraud. I don’t know that I would put that in the profile, I would put it under benefits or the section at the bottom, maybe under In Crisis.

4. **Without clicking anything, what do you think will happen when you click Edit?**

- Well I think it would allow me to make an adjustment to the bank name or account number.

OK you can click Edit. 

1. **(Once modal is open) Can you tell me what you are looking at here?**

- Well you’re looking at a check and it allows you to place your routing number, account type and account number. I would expect it to have bank name. 
- I would probably put in all this information and it would update automatically.

2. **Why do you think each field is blank?**

- Probably for security reasons or something like that.

3. **OK, now we are going to have you update this information. For the routing number, please enter 124003116. You can enter anything into the Account Number and Account Type field.**

- So now it becomes bank of America. The routing number changes the bank name. 
- Confusing- It is a little bit confusing as I expected a textual thing. Like name of bank. You have up here what’s my banks routing number, maybe instead of edit bank name it should be edit bank name/routing number.

4. **(If they have clicked Update, direct them to reopen the form) How did this form meet your expectations?**

- Well it give you the basic information what you need to get in there, but it has nothing that indicates bank name. One would think the name of the bank is important. Even in the example you have your name and your address, normally above the numbers there is a bank name. 

- **(If applicable) What was clear? What did you find to be confusing?**

- Confusing- No I think it’s pretty straight.

5. **What could this be improved?**

- Maybe a link to a telephone number if they have a question who they can call.

## Direct Deposit Content Page

(URL is https://staging.va.gov/change-direct-deposit-beta)

**Note**: We may do this sectin before the profile section if someone searches for Direct Deposit instead of navigating right to the profile.

1. **Can you take a look over this page and talk to me about what you see on this page?**

- Talks about what you need to change your information, this is a page that deals with only changing it. I would not expect to find anything other than how to change it. I am a bit confused where it says contact VA about other changes in information, that would cause me to think” what would the other changes be” you could identify sample. Like if you move, change address, or if your disability gets worse. A little confused as to education benefits but I guess those are things that could come through direct deposit. 
- Clarification- direct deposit information strikes me as there would be a vast amount of reasons that the VA would want direct deposit. Education benefits coming as the direct deposit way it appears. Yes. Exactly. I used education benefits but about 40 years ago, in that ear it probably wasn’t that detail and went straight to the school instead of the veteran.

2. **(Change wording depending if profile has already been visited) How would you update your direct deposit info for comp and pen? OR How would you navigate to your profile to update your direct deposit info?**

- Go to the green button that says go to the profile. It must say go to the profile for direct deposit up here. 
- Before I clicked on account, maybe if I clicked on profile I would have gotten here fast. The profile is like a picture of you, how long have you been retired and how to contact, Whereas I think of account as security and information. Yes. Exactly.

3. **How would you update your direct deposit info for the GI Bill and other education benefits?**

- Well I would go to education benefits and click the blue button. 

4. **How else could you update your direct deposit information if you did not want to do it online?**

- (Not in notes)

5. **How could you update the address associated with your direct deposit info?**

- Again, I would go to my profile and there are other changes there like if you move go to this link. No, looks like you can go to your va.gov profile and update your address. I can’t talk about all benefits, recently I have changed my phone number and that was real education to me. I thought by changing it in myhealthevet it would change all accounts with the VA. I assume the same thing goes on here I would have to change it through everything each time rather than just once. You’d think the VA overall would have one profile, account, set of profiles for everything. 

6. **How did this page meet your expectations?**

- Again, its fine it allowed me after looking that there are two large categories. What if I have other changes of information category. It says if your disability gets worse I am surprised it is not a subset of the green button above that has to do with direct deposit for disability and pension.
- Clear- Hey this is where you go to change you direct deposit and how I can do it online and down here it is clear that you are able to do it other ways as well.
- Confusing- the only thing I can say is that if I have other changes, I would like the examples upfront. What are the other changes that you should contact the VA? If you have changes within disability because it gets worse or higher than 30 percent or if your mailing address changes, contact these places. All of this basically has to do with address and there is no what if my phone number changes. I would guess that most veterans phone number changes often. 
- Clarification- No it is the statement “”should I contact” I think you need to tell us old brain-dead guys that we must contact the VA if there are changes in disability changes or address. Yes, veterans are used to being ordered around. Just tell us go here to change your status. 

7. **What could this be improved?**

- Yes, down below you have where it talks about get VA updates, you might want to have something that would link back to these buttons. No, I think that’s good. This must be very frustrating trying to design something like this and getting them to click the right thing at the right time. Maybe making the search button and I don’t know if contacting us I don’t know if there’s a link for direct deposit there.

## Post-Task Interview - 2 minutes

1. **Overall, how did you feel about the entire experience we looked at today?**

- I think its very encouraged that the VA is making an effort to work on the webpage there is a plusher of webpages that all try to do something and its great that someone is making the ages user friendly.

2. **In addition to anything you have already mentioned, how could this overall experience be improved?**

- No, I think that maybe they should look at contact us or if it’s a phone number, address or email. Those are all important if a person cannot figure out how to do it on a webpage. 
