# Conversation Guide: Direct Deposit Updates

### [Staging](https://staging.va.gov)

## Warm-up Questions (2 minutes)

1. **Before we start, can you tell me a little bit about yourself? (If stuck, prompt to ask about service experience, where they live, their work).**

-	My name is [redacted], from [redacted]. Retired from the Air Force as a nurse in 2016. Have been oversea for the past 10 yeas and first grown up job at the [redacted] VA. 30-year-old daughter I raised as a single parent in the Military. VA care and Veteran that gets services here. 

2. **Do you have a VA.gov account? If so, about how often do you use the website?**

- I do, I work here so I use the va.gov site a lot. For work all the time and as a veteran I use myhealthevet more than anything.

3. **Do you receive direct deposit payments from the VA? If so, for what?**

- I do. VA salary and disability that is direct deposit. 

## Navigating to Direct Deposit (5 – 10 minutes)

Alright, we are now on VA.gov. We have already signed you in as a test user named Johnnie Weaver.

1. **Without clicking anything, can you please tell me where you think a VA.gov user might go to update their direct deposit information with the VA?**

- All I see on records all I see if get your medical records. I would go to the disability square; I would view my payment history and confirm it is correct. If I had a question about the payment I would look at the claims status or start.

2. **OK, now that we have talked through it, please show me how you would find where to update your direct deposit information with the VA.**

- View my history, then go to view my payments. 
- Clarification- yes, I would check if its correct and if it weren’t I would assume there would be a button to take me where I needed to correct it. 
- Try again- I am on the VA.gov and I don’t know how to answer your questions. Clearly, have trouble. I don’t know where I would find it, it has where it would talk about compensation. I did not recognize the direct deposit information on va.gov.  
- What else might you do- search, I would click on this one. It says update contact and direct deposit information and it very direct. The top one. (Clicks into direct deposit content page)
- How would you updated- (reading page) there it has edit. 

3. **How did this meet your expectations?**

- I think once the site is live it would be better because it is direct, trying to find it is not user friendly
- Why- the alternate to use the search button. That would’ve been my second choice, but I would have wasted time looking at the options. For elderly veterans that are not user friendly it would be difficult if it were not stated on the main page. Add link. (Samara's summary: she wanted a link for direct deposit in the top 20 tasks)
- Prioritize links- I would think there would be an internal link to see how many links access are and off of the existing records, prioritize it by the data. The background of how to track that, I’m not technically inclined to do that but I imagine there’s a way to track how often the links are used and use that to prioritize it. 
- Other thoughts- Just from talking, thinking beyond myself, senior veterans that use the computer but not much if its not right up front, if you use the analytical data and through in the direct deposit than you can use the analytical data to determine if it should be up there. Otherwise the tab is a good alternative and on the va.gov site I don’t see many banners, or you could use an advertising banner that would catch the user’s attention. If I didn’t not find it how I was looking I would go to the search button and I am used to going to ebenefits. 

4. **What could this be improved?**

- No, I think that’s pretty much direct. I know a lot of people keep their stuff with direct deposit. I haven’t heard any of my friends that switch banks and change account. I think there is a mistrust of the government, so they don’t change it due to increase the risk of it messing up.

## Direct Deposit in the Profile

Now we are in the user profile. Please scroll until you see the "Direct Deposit" section.

1. **First, tell me what you are looking at here.**

- (Not in notes) 

2. **Where would you go to update your direct deposit information for the GI Bill?**

- Back to the education benefits part and/or to think link for the GI bill. 
- It gives me the option to go to ebenefits to change it or my mail or phone. 

3. **What should you do if you think you are the victim of fraud?**

- There’s a number here. 

4. **Without clicking anything, what do you think will happen when you click Edit?**

- It will open up the address and bank information giving me the option to modify the information. 

OK you can click Edit. 

1. **(Once modal is open) Can you tell me what you are looking at here?**

- I am looking at the required areas for me to make adjustments for my direct deposits off of a check as an example. 

2. **Why do you think each field is blank?**

- For security purposes and also so you can enter the updated information. Its clank so you put in the new information. 

3. **OK, now we are going to have you update this information. For the routing number, please enter 124003116. You can enter anything into the Account Number and Account Type field.**

- Nothing is happening, updated. (Samara's notes: Took a few seconds to update)

4. **(If they have clicked Update, direct them to reopen the form) How did this form meet your expectations?**

- It is standard requirement for direct deposit so nothing surprising.
- Confusing- no

5. **What could this be improved?**

- Nothing, it is very straightforward I don’t see anything that needs to be improved.

## Direct Deposit Content Page

(URL is https://staging.va.gov/change-direct-deposit-beta)

**Note**: We may do this section before the profile section if someone searches for Direct Deposit instead of navigating right to the profile.

1. **Can you take a look over this page and talk to me about what you see on this page?**

- (Reading page) I can see demographic and educational options. Like Gi Bill I used for my daughter. The option to download the information, due it by phone, and increasing the benefits. I see a lot of options that have to do with stud other than with direct deposit. 

2. **(Change wording depending if profile has already been visited) How would you update your direct deposit info for comp and pen? OR How would you navigate to your profile to update your direct deposit info?**

- Options to change my direct deposit information.

3. **How would you update your direct deposit info for the GI Bill and other education benefits?**

- I would go to the education benefits and change my information. I don’t think the VA does any of that. 
- The tab will take me to ebenefits, but the goal is to stay within the va.gov. If the va.gov under the profile will keep me under the va.gov site, without seeing that it will take me to ebenefits. I think were saying the same thing.

4. **How else could you update your direct deposit information if you did not want to do it online?**

- I can mail it in or there is a phone number. The phone number I would choose instead of mailing.

5. **How could you update the address associated with your direct deposit info?**

- I would go to my profile and I saw the option to update the address. 

6. **How did this page meet your expectations?**

- I think when it goes live it will be very convenient, I have my smart card. As a veteran that’s not an employee it is a little tricky trying to get an ID.me or remembering a long password. As an employee it’s great because we go straight in. 
- As an employee we have our PIV that gives direct access to the websites. However, as a veteran not being an employee it can be a challenge because of the long password that changed 60-90 days and have to reset it or option of doing a pin login. Thinking as an elderly veteran those things are very intimidating. 
- Right however if you’re logged out it doesn’t do anything good because you cannot access your personal information. I am assuming that I need to be logged in to access my personal information.

- **(If applicable) What was clear? What did you find to be confusing?**

- Helpful- I think to sign in it stands out because its green but the signing in can be a challenge thinking along an elderly veteran trying to get accounts set up or remembering to password that logs out after a certain amount of time. It is a safety measure rightfully so but can be intimidating so I don’t see many elderly veterans using it. 
- Confusing- the content is straight forward, content wise makes sense. The bold lettering in the direct deposit select makes sense for the accessing that. The education select the font is smaller, so it makes it seem it is under the direct deposit. The education font is smaller I don’t know if it’s for the test, but this is weird and looks like it is part for the direct deposit and doesn’t make sense. I don’t understand why the education breaks up the direct deposit stuff

7. **What could this be improved?**

- I think the education benefit should be at the bottom because it doesn’t have to do wit anything with direct deposit. The disability gets worse should be higher and it’s at the bottom. 

## Post-Task Interview - 2 minutes

1. **Overall, how did you feel about the entire experience we looked at today?**

- It was just a little confusing initially because I kept trying to do ebenefits and I think when it goes live it will be easier just a learning curve.

2. **In addition to anything you have already mentioned, how could this overall experience be improved?**

- No, I think once it gets to it everything is there. The one area with the GI bill embedded I would recommend reposition that. It makes sense that it is on va.gov and the source is va.gov so it makes sense to use the va.gov. 
