# Conversation Guide: Direct Deposit Updates

### [Staging](https://staging.va.gov)

## Warm-up Questions (2 minutes)

1. **Before we start, can you tell me a little bit about yourself? (If stuck, prompt to ask about service experience, where they live, their work).**

- I joined the Marines at 19, got out about 3 years ago now. Pretty much living the standard everyday life with my wife and daughter.

2. **Do you have a VA.gov account? If so, about how often do you use the website?**

- I do but I have medical care through work, so I don’t use the va much. The website periodically maybe once a month just check on it to ensure all is up to Date and no messages pending.

3. **Do you receive direct deposit payments from the VA? If so, for what?**

- I do, disabilities. 

## Navigating to Direct Deposit (5 – 10 minutes)

Alright, we are now on VA.gov. We have already signed you in as a test user named Johnnie Weaver.

1. **Without clicking anything, can you please tell me where you think a VA.gov user might go to update their direct deposit information with the VA?**

- Let me just read really quick. I see the payment history and file appeals and claims but(reading page) I see change address; I cannot honestly see an area that I could change my direct deposit. 

2. **OK, now that we have talked through it, please show me how you would find where to update your direct deposit information with the VA.**

- I would probably check payment history for the disability. Ok I see after scrolling down I see change your information online for direct deposit. I would click on it. (Goes to the direct deposit content page)
- (Once on direct deposit content page) A little more straightforward. Obviously there is a go to profile to change. And were here. (Clicks profile CTA on the direct deposit content page and sees direct deposit functionality in profile)

3. **How did this meet your expectations?**

- The unedited a little confusing, when you think of address area and personal information you think of your basic information. You are not thinking about banking info. Without a direct link it is difficult, having a direct link or it up front in your face and labeled would help. 
- (If applicable) What was clear? What did you find to be confusing? The front page with the 4 modules, not really on the list of things. I feel like id have to search around and click multiple links. (Samara's notes: Is talking about the homepage. Wants a DD link in the top 20 tasks)
- Easier to find- Without changing the front at all, I am not sure how your email works or if you can directly email people. The occasional hey this is new, or this is available for you. Or if on the VA website the News page, like updates or what’s new popup. A little inhouse advertising. Like a header or a banner so new users can see it is there. Honestly with update, if not having it popup on the main a header or an email is the most effective. 
- Profile or account settings- Um with the profile is all the personal information, Id say on the profile it makes the most sense because it is where all of your information is. With the contact information, I don’t know, there is a lot of contact information you have to scroll. There are different areas like banking, personal information, or banking bar at the top that allows you to skip ahead like Wikipedia. 

- **(If applicable) What was clear? What did you find to be confusing?**
4. **What could this be improved?**

- (Not in notes)

## Direct Deposit in the Profile

Now we are in the user profile. Please scroll until you see the "Direct Deposit" section.

1. **First, tell me what you are looking at here.**

- Looking at the direct deposit information areas here, it has the straightforward link with bank, routine number and how to find it. Account number and account type. A safety alert for bank fraud. 

2. **Where would you go to update your direct deposit information for the GI Bill?**

- I see the link is right here and you would go to ebenefits. 

3. **What should you do if you think you are the victim of fraud?**

- You would call the number and I see there are times along with the number.

4. **Without clicking anything, what do you think will happen when you click Edit?**

- It would obviously bring you to a bar where you can change or enter your number. 

OK you can click Edit. 

1. **(Once modal is open) Can you tell me what you are looking at here?**

- Its like a picture of a check and it’s a basic check that shows where to find banking routing and account number. As well as an area to enter the information.

2. **Why do you think each field is blank?**

- The personal information has not been entered and if it is already in the system they don’t want it to be hack by seeing the full number. 

3. **OK, now we are going to have you update this information. For the routing number, please enter 124003116. You can enter anything into the Account Number and Account Type field.**

- (No response)

4. **(If they have clicked Update, direct them to reopen the form) How did this form meet your expectations?**

- Um its straightforward and easy on the entering part. The picture, being a little younger, I rarely use checks and don’t use checks. A lot of people don’t use it unless they are renting, and their landlord requires it in check form. From my perspective being a little young a picture of a check and have a little note that you can find it on your banking statement and other places they can find it because they don’t always have a check.

- **(If applicable) What was clear? What did you find to be confusing?**

- What was clear? The routing, account and type is all straightforward. All instructions are straight forward. 100 percent easy to understand just the picture is a little outdated
- What did you find to be confusing? Nothing.

5. **What could this be improved?**

- Nothing.

## Direct Deposit Content Page

(URL is https://staging.va.gov/change-direct-deposit-beta)

**Note**: We may do this sectin before the profile section if someone searches for Direct Deposit instead of navigating right to the profile.

1. **Can you take a look over this page and talk to me about what you see on this page?**

- You have your direct deposit, changing it, how to change it, where you need to go and tells you that you need your banking information. Also allows you to switch to paper if so wanted. You have educational benefits and other helpful information. I guess for older people that don’t use it much by mail or phone. Also, other information about rates and mailing address. 

2. **(Change wording depending if profile has already been visited) How would you update your direct deposit info for comp and pen? OR How would you navigate to your profile to update your direct deposit info?**

- (Didn't ask since we were already in profile)

3. **How would you update your direct deposit info for the GI Bill and other education benefits?**

- For the GI Bill, according to this, go to benefits. 

4. **How else could you update your direct deposit information if you did not want to do it online?**

- Call in or by mail.

5. **How could you update the address associated with your direct deposit info?**

- Through your profile.

6. **How did this page meet your expectations?**

- It was good, like I said before the layout of the website it layers on one after the over. In general, a lot of different information and you really have to scan through it. Like on Wikipedia, having headers or bullet points. Most people are looking for certain things and don’t want to scroll to find it. Finding an exact change of disability, finding the information in a bulletized information it would be found faster. A lot of information that is just layered on.

- **(If applicable) What was clear? What did you find to be confusing?**

- Once you are looking at each header it is clear and straightforward. Its just the having to search through it. All straightforward and have well instructions. 

7. **What could this be improved?**

- No I'd say it is perfectly fine.

## Post-Task Interview - 2 minutes

1. **Overall, how did you feel about the entire experience we looked at today?**

- I feel like its pretty good. All is well labeled. The information on how to do things is clear and well labeled. The information you have to scroll to find and bullet point links would make it clear and easier to understand and cuts down on people missing things. 

2. **In addition to anything you have already mentioned, how could this overall experience be improved?**

- I’d say overall is perfect. 
