# Conversation Guide: Address validation: Participant 3

### [Prototype](https://vsateams.invisionapp.com/share/34UP5BMUAJF#/391945409_1-_Intro_Screen)

## Warm-up Questions (5 minutes)

1. **Before we start, can you tell me a little bit about yourself? (If stuck, prompt to ask about service experience, where they live, their work).**

- I am retired, was working at the bank and they downsized. Now I am finding out my family history and part of genecology groups part of the WMA. I did not graduate college. 

*Share screen and start recording.*

**OK, now I am going to turn on the recording.**

2. **Do you receive benefits from the VA? May I ask which benefits?**

- VA healthcare? Yes all is done at the VA.

3. **Since receiving benefits from the VA, have you ever had to update your mailing address with the VA? (If yes) Can you tell me about this experience?**

- Just once we went from a po box to an actual address. 

4. **Since receiving benefits from the VA, was there ever a time when you were not receiving mail you expected to receive from the VA? Did you ever find out why you weren't receiving this mail?**

- I changed it then when I went to the doctor’s appointment they did it there as well. 
- I have only had one bad experience about 20 years ago and it had more to deal with the doctors catching up with stuff. They had more people to work with then they had doctors. 

5. **Have you ever signed in to VA.gov before? (If yes) About how often do you use the website?**

- As far as I have I have and I am on myhealthevet.
- (*VA.gov, how often?*) Once every few months or to go looking things up. 

## First Task: Address validation with override and suggestions (10 minutes)

**Alright, now I am going to share keyboard and mouse controls and we are going to walk through the prototype.**

**(*Intro screen*) First, I just want to reiterate that this is a prototype... OK, when you're ready, please click "Go to the Prototype."**

**We are starting from the VA.gov homepage.**

1. **What would you do if you needed to change the address the VA had on file for you?**

- You would go to your name then you would go to my profile. 

2. **(*On Profile*) Now we are on the VA.gov profile. How would you change your mailing address?**

- Click contact/personal. You would click edit and type in your address and if it is the same as your home it would change that as well. 

3. **(*On the Edit form*) Since this is a prototype, we are going to simulate typing in a new address by having you click into any of the fields in this form. That will update the whole address. (*On the updated form*) OK, now you have entered a new address. How would you save it?**

-  I think you go to the bottom and click update. 

**(*Address validation section*)**

1. **Now we are looking at a screen that says "Your address update isn't valid." What do you think this means?**

- To make sure you click on it again or they are doing a check to make sure that it is a real address
 -(*Making sure it is a real address?*) Yes, I remember them saying that I can go that so I have to call in and do it personally because doing it on myHealtheVet won’t change it at the va.
- (*What does it mean to you?*) It is asking you to enter your address again and ensure it is the correct address and zip code
- (*What does it mean it is not valid?*) That it is not a real street in DC. That is the only thing I would think would be valid. I am not sure what you are asking.
 - (*So you're saying it not being valid means it doesn't have a valid street address?*) Yes, it is not recognized as a street. I know sometimes you need to click and make sure they match. 

2. **Why do you think you are being told your address isn't valid? Why do you think you are seeing this screen?**

- I have no idea
 -(*If you had to take a guess?*) I would say they don’t recognize the street in the down or clicking it twice to say it is the correct address
- (*So you think the address needs to be confirmed again?*) Correct.

3. **What do you think will happen if you click Edit Address?**

- Well it would ask you to re do your address. It has suggested addresses of NW or NE so there must be a direction on the street.

4. **What do you think "Suggested Addresses" are? Where did they come from?**

- I would say the USPS, they would need to put more down to ensure it gets to the right place.

5. **How would you select the address you want to move forward with? What if you wanted to select the original address you entered?**

- I would figure out if I am on NE or NW like mine is [REDACTED] and I know there is a [REDACTED].
- (*How would you pick which on you’d want to move forward with?*) I would hit continue. 
- (*Do you think you can select the original address you entered?*) It won’t let me go back in and change it. 
- (*Can you select the original address?*) I noticed the one that I think it would be.
- (*Do you think you could select the one you entered if you wanted to?*) Well I would hope it wouldn’t let you because they need to know which is the correct. I would say it should and it will tell you that you need to add NW or NE.
- (*Do you think you are not allowed to pick original?*) No
- (*Did you notice the circle next to the original?*) Yes, I did. 
- (*Even though it looks like you can, you don’t think you should be able to?*) No, I see there is a problem it should alert you that you are wrong or left something out. 
- (*Told the original address isn’t valid but able to select it anyways, why?*) I guess because if that’s the one you think you will get. If you have a problem getting your mail or drugs sent to you.
-(*I am asking why it letting you choose it?*) Well I guess if that’s the only one you know I would hit it. I don’t know. 
- (*Are you saying it is the persons address?*) It might be but I know when I leave "south" off of my address it throws the mail off and I would like to know I left something out. 

6. **Now that you have selected your address, please show me how you would save it.**

**(*On Confirm screen*)**

1. **Why do you think you are being shown this screen?**

- It is asking you if it is correct or if you want to add the NW you didn’t type in.
- (*Why are you seeing this?*) It is asking if you want to update your address. 

2. **What do you think will happen if you click "View Suggested Addresses?" Why do you think we give you the option to view suggested addresses?**

- I guess you are sitting there wanting to confirm that it is the correct address and if you don’t think it is then you can go back and edit it again. 

**OK, please save your new address.**

**Alright, I have a few follow-up questions for you:**

1. **What could be improved about the process we just looked at? Do you have any questions about the process we just looked at?**

- I don’t know, the only thing for me is that invalid sometimes through people off. It should say you may have left something out of your address please confirm. They may get stressed out about it.
- (*So you find the term "Invalid" confusing?*) Right. 
- (*Better wording?*) Yes, better wording. It is telling you that the typed address is invalid and some people get stressed that why are you telling me my address I typed is invalid. I know its right. It should say you left something out or please confirmed.
- (*Better wording would be "you left something out, please fix it?*) Right.

2. **What did you find to be clear and easy to understand?**

- Well I mean update and confirm it is easy to go to if you want to go to that one. 

## Second Task: Address validation with override but without suggestions (5 minutes)

**Alright, now we are going to go through a similar process like we just went through, but it will be a little bit different this time.**

**First, please go to update your mailing address again. (*In modal after they click Edit*) Like before, please click into any field to update your address, and then save it.**

**(*On confirm screen*)**

1. **It looks like this address came up as invalid again, but this screen looks a little different than the last one. Can you tell me more about what you see and what's different than last time?**

- It didn’t give you any suggestions, you typed it right and there aren’t any suggestions. Now people will sit there and say why isn’t it valid that is my address. 
( *You are saying that it didn’t give you any suggested addresses because it is invalid?*) Yes. It’s not saying that they want to confirm it they are saying it is invalid. 

2. **Why do you think there are no suggested addresses?**

- Either that is the way the address street is or they don’t have something to say hey this is what we think it is. 
- (*No suggestions or that the Address is correct?*) Yes.
- (*Why does it say it is invalid?*) You have not retyped it in or confirmed that it is correct
- (*You think you have to reenter to confirm?*) Right. 
- (Samara's note: One on hand, it seemed like this participant understood that an address being "invalid" meant that it wasn't correct and mail couldn't be delivered there. But she also kept bringing up this idea of having to enter the address twice. I couldn't tell if she was talking about confirmations in general, or if entering the address again had something to do specifically with this flow and the address being first flagged as invalid).

3. **Tell me what you think your options are at this point.**

- I would hit continue 
- (*What if it wasn’t correct?*) I would go back and hit edit if I think something is wrong. 

4. **What would you do next?**

- If I am happy with the address I would go back and retype it. 
- (*What if it is the correct address?*) I would click continue. 

**OK, please save your address. (*On confirm screen*) OK, please confirm and save.**

## Third Task: Address validation without override but with suggestions (5 minutes)

**Again, now we are going to go through a similar process like we just went through. We've got two more scenarios we are going to look at.**

**Like before, please go to update your mailing address again. (*In modal after they click Edit*) and click into any field to update your address, and then save it.**

**(*On confirm screen*)**

1. **Like before, the address you entered has came up as invalid, but this screen looks a little different than the last two we looked at. Can you tell me more about what you see and what's different than last time?**

- It has two suggestions; one is the same as the first one we have with NW and NE. 
- (*What else is different?*) It looks like the address up at the top is invalid and there aren’t as much writing in the paragraph
- (*Look at original address, did you notice you cannot select the address?*) I see that you can’t click it and the road and street is different
- (*You did notice?*) Yes.

2. **Why do you think you can't choose the address you originally entered?**

- Because it doesn’t like "road."
- (*But before you could save the address when it was invalid so why can’t you now?*) Probably it lets you sometimes because it is close enough and it may work anyways. If everything is right but you left of the direction but zip code is the same it is okay. 

3. **What would you do if the address you entered was indeed correct but you were not able to save it?**

- I would call the VA and manually ask them what is going on.

4. **Tell me what you think your options are at this point.**

- Well I would not change it and I would go out and find exactly if this is my address and why it wouldn’t let you change it. To see if it is "street" or "road."

5. **What would you do next?**

- If I wanted the one that I could not complete I would go back out and not save it. 
- (*Options from this screen?*) To cancel. 
- (*Anything else, what if you wanted to change the address?*) Pick a suggested address. 
- (*What if you wanted to enter a new address?*) Go to edit address to retype the address then see if it comes up with the same suggestions. 

**OK, please save your address. (*On confirm screen*) OK, please confirm and save.**

## Fourth Task: Address validation without override but with NO suggestions (5 minutes)

**We are going to go through one more scenario. Like before, please go to update your mailing address again. (*In modal after they click Edit*) and click into any field to update your address, and then save it.**

**(*On confirm screen*)**

1. **Like before, the address you entered has came up as invalid, but this screen looks a little different than the rest. Can you tell me more about what you see and what's different than last time?**

- Well it doesn’t give you suggestions and there is something wrong. It tells you to go back and edit it.

2. **Tell me what you think your options are at this point.**

- You can go back and retype the address. There is something wrong that it didn’t like.
- (*Why do you think there are no suggested addresses?*) Because it is either an incorrect address or it thinks something isn’t right such ads the zip code. It won’t tell you what is wrong but there is something wrong. 
- (*Why can’t you select the original address?*) Because it is telling me that there is something wrong.
- (*It's so wrong it can’t be saved and they can’t find something close?*)Right. 

3. **What would you do next?**

**OK, please go to edit your address. (on Edit form) Click into any field to update the address, and show me how you would save it.**

## Post-testing questions (2 minutes)

**OK, those are all the screens we are going to look at today.**

1. **Overall, how could we improve the different scenarios we looked at today?**

- To be I like straight talk, I don’t like invalid. It is either this isn’t the correct address, the address was typed incorrect. Invalid means you don’t know what is wrong or you typed it wrong. I don’t like the word invalid; it puts you on the bad side.
- (*It sounds like you like "straight talk" and "invalid" isn’t that*) Right. It is saying you are wrong and don’t know what you are doing?
- (*What can be improved in addition to that?*) I didn’t like that it does not provide suggestions or tell you that you left directions off. It should tell you that you need to add something. Its like apartments it should say that you forgot to add the apartment number.
- (*So it should tell the people what is wrong and if there is really something wrong, to be more specific?*) Yes. You have you address and it is right. You are not looking at ABCD and you forgot NW or people reverse zip codes and you think you are reading it but you didn’t type it right. 
- (*Anything else?*) No, I think it went through well when suggested. I went through this before when ordering something. It puts the last 4 instead of the zip code to ensure that it is more direct so I have dealt with suggestions. I don’t know if an older person would understand why it is saying that it is invalid. 

2. **What did you think was clear/what worked well?**

- The suggested addresses. I don’t know that if you had the address and you can click on the address even though it was incorrect. It should stop because with mail you need to be correct
- (*What worked well?*) Right, if there is something wrong with the address don’t let someone click on it because they won’t get their medication. A lot of people would not fix the address and a lot of people do that with apartments. They would send it back when they need to get it.
- (*What was clear or worked well?*) The suggestions were good and showing you the differences. 

3. **What questions do you have for me?**

- No

