# AEDP Open Working Session Meeting Notes 
### April 30, 2025

### Attendees:
- Kristen
- Christine
- Alex
- Adam
- Belle
- Becky
- Fran

## Agenda: Review outstanding questions/comments on Marital Status designs


### Action Items
- [X] Kristen: reach out to content today [Slack message](https://dsva.slack.com/archives/C01K37HRUAH/p1746044072123249)
  - [X] Post-meeting note 4/30: Lauren on the Content team requested a [ticket](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/issues/108767)
  - [X] when we reach out to content, we can let them know 1 and 2 are more urgent questions because we want the team to test during their research. (Post-meeting note: Fran added this as a note in the ticket)
- [ ] Kristen: express to 1010ez that we think there is something on the page Marital status page around 'Why we ask for this'. We don't have the option(s) yet but we will shortly.
- [ ] Kristen: Ask the 1010ez to let us know if they get comments on placement of the 'deceased spouse' checkbox / language.
- [X] Christine scheduled the meeting with Renata (1010EZ research) for Monday, 4/5 at 1100PT.
- [X] Second set of eyes in Mural to see if all financial separate living situation questions are in Figma.
- [X] Fran: Create Tickets -  One [ticket](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/tmf-auth-exp-design-patterns/issues/386) to incorporate content team's feedback into mockups,  and another [ticket](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/tmf-auth-exp-design-patterns/issues/387) to incorporate product teams' feedback into mockups. (we already have finalize mockup tickets)


### Decisions
- Becky: Re the Living situation section, (form 686conly question) The value of leaving the question about "did yor spouse have an income in the last 365 days...) in Figma will provide a good example of having a one-off question and how that's handled. (Kristen: maybe there's a middle ground of showing teams how and where to add questions e.g. if you have to add additional household financial info, this is how you do it.
- Leave the questions (that are specific to certain forms) in Figma so others will know why they are there and that they can be removed/altered.
  - Form 686c - Did your spouse have any income last year? If you did not live with them, follow-up question: Why do you not?
  - Form 527PDF and 1010EZ: How much did you contribute to their support? (Dependent on them not living together)

### Notes
- Kristen: 1010ez is doing research. Will do parts of marital status during their research sessions. We should get a meeting on the books to see what questions we could ask that we want to know (see action items; meeting scheduled)
  - some of the questions might overlap with what we want from content. We can circle back around with content if we get different research feedback.
  - [Conversation Guide for 2025-05 10-10EZR Confirmation Flow [RED FIRST]](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/blob/master/products/health-care/application/va-application/research/2025-05-EZR-Confirmation-Flow/Conversation-guide-Red-first.md)
  - Christine: 1010ez doesn't have dates yet for research. Still in flux. We have a little bit of time.
- Kristin: Regarding what VA considers married: We think there's a need to specify what VA considers married. Where to include this info? Maybe testing around the best place for this? Or if we're combining it with the 'why we ask...' component, ask them (the 1010ez team) to test if people can parse two subjects in one component. Or can we have two additional info components?
  - Chrstine: would want to get content's thoughts on this approach. Do we really need to tell them everything in that component? Just tell them why we ask this and have all the content underneath. If they don't know how to answer they might go to the additional info component to see what's there. It feels like setting up additional info with two subjects is a lot of info.
  - Becky agrees that if we have the additional info component, we should limit it to just one subject.
  - Kristen: we want to include a link, which makes the additional info the best option; putting both subjects and the link. We need the content team to provide guidance. Then would be great to test that string with users.
  - Christine: what if instead we have the why we ask this info in the light gray text just under the question, and then have the other info in the additional info that needs a link in the component.
  - Kristen: we will flag for them (the 1010ez tean) things that might change due to content feedback.
  - Adam: Regarding conditional answers and additional pages - every page in a form has the ability to have depends features, so teams can customize and choose where they are going to add in additional pages.
  - Kristen: [Slack message](https://dsva.slack.com/archives/C07909N7U8Z/p1745606662682699) regarding reaching out to the Trauma practice
- Adam: He's working on codespace with Cindy. Shane - research is reviewing it right now. We're pretty good here. Adam talked about it with Alex, and Alex will facilitate when Adam is gone. Cindy is doing pilots 5/5 to 5/9, and  12th - 21st are actual sessions.  This ticket will roll (#348) over because it will go to Alex.
- Adam:One thing engineering was thinking about... Instead of building out an entire form like we did for the previous patterns, we were thinking of taking a simpler approachâ€”similar to this lightweight form [example[(https://staging.va.gov/mock-simple-forms-patterns/introduction). In it, users can view a list of possible pages within a form and selectively choose the components or aspects they need. Each page also includes built-in guidance to support implementation.
- Fran: Alex is not in the A6 AEDP slack channel yet. He will check with Adhoc to find out what the scoop is
  - Post meeting note: Alex checked with AdHoc, and they don't have anything pending. Fran determined how to invite Alex using his email address. That worked and he's in!
- 

