# FPR Workshops for VSP Ideation, Sept 2019 

## Goals
- Listen to voices across the program to help inform leadership's overall VSP vision and roadmap
- Gather ideas for ambitious and innovative work
- Gather ideas for teams to use in their roadmapping and strategy
- Contribute to shifting mindset from "reactive" to "proactive"

## Format / Structure
- 2 hr virtual workshop with self-reflection time, writing time, and group discussion time
- 4 instances over the course of 2 weeks, so people can choose the one that best works w/their schedule
- Ideally < 10 people per instance

## Workshop Materials
- [Google Slide Deck](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1JpEe7lFtAz4Ez2XMYvIZXjwpXa3EQ_XRRcyJJFYgcFE/edit#slide=id.p)
- [Google Sheet Ideation Results](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/17ubZRzXGaNjxCRE9rdHTdiRjSXtTTgORHGVfb3IVd6k/edit#gid=0)

---

## Findings after Workshop 1
- 5 participants
- The first part of the meeting took way longer than expected
- "What's a platform you love and why" resulted in insighful responses!
- I wanted to give privacy for the North Star exploration so they could discuss w/o feeling judged, but that means I didn't get a chance to steer the conversation / push and challenge, which in hindsight seems like it would have been helpful.
- There were a few times when ideas were thrown out for VA.gov features, not VSP features. I don't think that's a bad thing, bc I like just having ideas flowing. Just noting that.
- The things that got votes are really interesting. I feel almost the opposite on a lot of them! Do we have misaligned understadindings of our mission and north star? Or is there some other way to interpret this? 
- FPRs were good in terms of their focus on outcomes and concepts we should lean into, which resulted in good "how might we" statements. Was tough to push beyond descriptions of responsibilities and desired outcomes, toward unique/boundary-pushing solutions.

**Participant Feedback**
- One person said they thought it was a great workshop
- Another person said they appreciate that leadership is listening to the whole team, and that their voice will get to be a part of the overall vision.
- Aside from those 2 comments, there has been a lot of radio silence which I interpret as negative. My hypotheses: they didn't understand why we did this, weren't impressed w/the outputs, don't see the value / thought it was a waste of time, aren't sure what to do with the outputs.

### Adjustments after Workshop 1
- Made the North Star and FPR questions more pointed and less numerous
- Removed some slides that seem to add extra time and less value (VSP mission today and north star)
- Updated timing for the various parts of the Agenda
- Made the North Star part a full group discussion w/me there to facilitate
- Might ask 3rd party (Emily) to send out a poll to get ppls' true feeling about how it went
- Extended the time horizon for the FPR (from "one year" to "2021") to attempt to get minds further away from the "now"
- Added idea to Sprint 10 for leadership to distill the Story of Platform, so our own team members can understand how we're different and thus understand how to better contribute to the mission.

### Artifacts
- [Workshop 1 Version of the deck]()

## Findings after Workshop 2
- 9 participants, w/a large proportion of Sr Experts
- Very engineering-heavy discussion, even with 2 designers, me, and a call center lead in the meeting.
- "What's a platform you love and why" convo, again, generated great insights. We spent more time on this element this time, and discussed how the "whys" might apply to our Platform as a full group (not in an unmoderated breakout like last time) and we got some really interesting ideas written down.
- iterated in the moment to take notes directly on the "north star" slide, which came in handy later during the Themes + Features part
- Not sure how valuable the actual FPR-writing activity was. Peoples' FPRs were great, but I don't think brought out anytthing new that hadn't already been discussed in the "north star" part.
- Went back to the "north star" notes to capture more features to bring over to the spreadsheet.
- Overall I talked a lot more this time about how the point of this is to move into the solutioning realm, push ourselves to think not about what our Platform is today, but about what it coule be, and think of outside-the-box ideas.
- Overall got some REALLY good, innovative, outside the box ideas on the spreadsheet, but a lot of them are engineering-focused.

**Participant Feedback**

### Adjustments after Workshop 2
- 

### Artifacts
- [Workshop 2 Version of the deck]()

## Findings after Workshop 3
- 

### Adjustments after Workshop 3
- 

### Artifacts
- [Workshop 3 Version of the deck]()

## Findings after Workshop 4
- 

### Adjustments after Workshop 4
- 

### Artifacts
- [Workshop 4 Version of the deck]()
