# Profile Notification Settings, Adding email as a channel

P1

1/19/2023

Notetaker: SH, Perigean


**Moderator logistics**

Before we start, I want to confirm a few pieces of information that were shared with me when you signed up for the study:

- Can you confirm that you have used My HealtheVet within the last 12 months?  **Yes**
- What kind of email or text notifications have you received from VA in the last 12 months? I have a va appointment so I got a text and email for that than I get it for prescriptions.

_Start recording._

- **I have started recording**. I'd like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record my screen and the audio as we talk today? Yeah that's fine.

**First Task (Read edit prototype): Review first prototype - 5 minutes / 10 minutes with assistive tech**

Great! Let's go ahead and get started looking at the prototype. I'm going to have you share your screen.

Talk to me about what you can do here: Okay. SO at the top sign up or login. I see the heart which would be like the start to favorite it as an assumption. Profile on the left and maybe demographics and contact information, than military , direct deposit .notifications text email notification, than account security like passwords then connected apps like that you can co0nnect. If there were my HealtheVet app that would be awesome where we could save the password and then use biometrics to open it so I can use it to see my pills to see if I have refills than reorder instead of having to login.

Notifications other than VM: I would expect SMS and email. But I am a therapist and when they get notifications they can ask for a voice message to be left to some as well so for one of my clients they are visually impaired so it will read it to them but like the voice service as well because someone tells them something it's not just the phone reading a message whereas the robot know what to say like a script. I don't expect that but it's something I have seen.

Text notifications and a text for when it has been shipped would be great. I just get an email right now. Oh medical imagines and reports what I think would be interesting, if new reports or images like an MRI or labs if you get an email or text vs a nurse or doctor calling a few days after the reports have actually been received. If the system connected to a notification system or if it needs to be future explained it would say lab is completed and you will be contacted soon if it needs more explanation. I haven't heard of a newsletter. I know secure messages and I get an email for that. I got the IRS for the other day. Of appeals, this feels more like benefits where it's a one stop shop. Payments are important, ebenefits to va I had growing pains because I haven't set it up whereas ebenefits and myhealthevet I use the my HealtheVet login. I have the other passwords but I don't use it. Ebenefits was user friendly to me but there the payments included other benefits like educational benefits and where it was going. You could look up what the school was paid and the monthly housing allowance.

- What questions come up for you as you look at this page? No it seems like it is set up for an email or text notifications. This is the notifications settings page. I am not confused as of right now.
- Show me how you would update your notifications settings from this page: Clicked edit. Just to check this is a pretend mobile number. Expected to show as on.
- How do you feel about the amount of information you have for each notification? Actually it didn't because I expected to click the bell and I thought I could uncheck that here but I understand the redundancy to be like are you sure like the popup asking if you are sure you want to make the change. I feel like a lot of these could be turned to a click or if you ever saw your phone to slide it the toggle and it moves. I have used those things for notifications. Just click it on for notification. Other things like direct deposit or contact information you need to type it in and save because it is important that you know or are sure. Maybe were not there yet but have a save button on those. But for direct deposit be like are you sure, but for notifications it can be a toggle. It would limit the hyperlinks for edit and erases the need for the second page.
- Do you need any other information in order to make a decision about updating a notification setting? I think it is the right amount but I would make it all text toggles and default email. And text off. Than a person has the option to turn the text on or off but the default be email so the emails would send you all of the stuff or not opt in to the newsletter. So the stuff you want will go to the email, we get texts, letters, and calls for appointments because not everyone is cognitively there. Some things you can leave a s a default and if they don't want it on then they could turn it off. Text for appointment and email for everything else.

**Second Task: Add email address - 3 minutes / 6 minutes with assistive tech**

Wonderful, thanks for sharing all of that with me.

- Show me what you would do if you wanted to get notifications by email. As a reminder, this is a prototype, so it won't work quite as you expect. But we'll still be able to learn from you.

That's fine this says off and this one says on. Its good I think it looks how I expected it to besides the edit. It looks streamline and nicer. Than down here when you get to certain things I don't know why some things will be on, like you cant read your secure message on a text or email it will tell you to go check it.

Why is it only email allowed: maybe theres an encryption setting or a password security on an email that's not on a phone. Some people use biometric or pins or nothing. At the end of the day that text would just tell you to go check it. I guess if you had it saved on your phone it would let you log back in but you could say the same thing about email on my phone because it doesn't require a password to see my emails.

**Third Task: Review prototype B - 5 minutes / 10 minutes with assistive tech**

Thanks for doing that, it's so helpful for us to be able to hear your thoughts on that. Now I'd like to get your feedback on a different approach, and I'll send you a new link through the chat.

Take a look at this page. What do you notice that is different from the other view we looked at? I like this the check marks great. I like it so far and its only been like one second. I think it. the only thing that I would be curious about is what's the reason that some can only be email instead of text. Now if you were sent the reports or images it should be email but I assume it's a notification and you have to login to see it. So it wouldn't matter on the notification same as secure messaging. With newsletters it makes sense because most people don't want to read a PDF on the phone so it will just take up space. I guess that's my only feedback. It's the curiosity I guess.

Same question here that says only text: no because I can see everyone has a phone and email. A text is the direct way and a person may not look at the email right away. I don't look at my email right away the only one I look at a lot is my work. A text I look at immediately I get calls and emails but when I get a text I look at it right away.

- Show me how you would update your notification settings with this approach: check marks. I think this is great. It is the same thing I said, but better than a toggle. Because a toggle moves things and this just puts check marks.
- How do you feel about the level of information you have for each notification on this version of the page?
- Do you need any other information in order to make a decision about updating a notification setting? Yeah I don't feel like there is a need. Like up here it tells me it is not available at all VA pharmacies. I think that's enough and that's only there because people don't always ship medications.

**Post-Task Interview - up to 10 minutes**

That's everything I wanted to review with you- thank you so much for your feedback.

- We reviewed two different ways to update notification settings today. Does one approach work better for you than the other? The second one is a lot better. It is streamlined and efficient. It will remind me how I choose and it saves it by checking it. if I uncheck it, it would be saved.
- No saved button: I think it is fine because you see that it is updated and saved. As long as it provides that then there is no need for a save button.

App for prescriptions: I saw one for myhealthevet which was hard to use and it was a 1.8 rating which is terrible.

Ebenfits shows more than direct deposit and pension, it tells you they sent it to you: Yes, it showed all of the money instead of just VA compensation. It should show the housing amounts well, it was a nice place for it all to be listed if I am arguing that I didn't get something or you are arguing that I did get something.

Not set up alto on VA.gov, issues/ questions: no its not nothing. I have been stuck on if it's not broken don't fix it. I do plan on it I just haven't gotten there. If you want more feedback, one thing that would be great for the va to add eventually. Something that would be great is putting CHAMP VA benefit stuff in an easier more accessible way. If you are 100 percent than your dependents get it and it is easier for my wife to use it in the community. I think of it like fancy Medicaid. Like Tricare that pays more. I know personally because I take it as a provider. There's a loud amount on what it costs like a therapy session is 250 but I never get that. With me this 250 Medicaid is like I will give you 128 but its how it works as the allowed amount. Alliance for a normal session the allowed amount is 82 but the session is 215. Than because I work at a practice I can only get 60 percent so I get 24 dollars of that but if its blue cross blue shield the allowed amount is 187. The explanation of ebenfits would be for my wife to understand what she uses even if she falls under me. Tricare had a good setup but CHAMP VA their set up is billing the people. They pay buts that's as good as they good which I am grateful for but it isnt user friendly.

- Do you have any other thoughts you'd like to share that you haven't had a chance to talk about yet?
- Any questions for me?

**Thank-You and Closing - 2 minutes**

Well we really appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us today. Your feedback is so helpful to us as we continue to work on the site and make sure it really works for Veterans.

Thanks! Lastly, Perigean will be sending you a thank you note with a little blurb that you can pass along to other Veterans you may know to provide them the chance to participate in future research studies.

Thank you so much again and enjoy the rest of your day!
