# Profile Notification Settings, Adding email as a channel

P10

1/24/23

Notetaker: SH, Perigean

**Moderator logistics**

Before we start, I want to confirm a few pieces of information that were shared with me when you signed up for the study:

- Can you confirm that you have used My HealtheVet within the last 12 months?  Yes.
- What kind of email or text notifications have you received from VA in the last 12 months? Every time I have an appointment at the CBOC I get those alerts form my HealtheVet and I get text messages and emails if anything happens like if it is a phone outages or emergency type of thing I get text alerts. I also get texts for upcoming appointments that tell me when and where. I subscribe to the VA newsletter as well.
- **For screenreader sessions:**  I understand you use screenreader software to navigate the internet, and that you typically use SOFTWARE NAME. Can you confirm you'll be using that in today's session? Voiceover

_Start recording._

- **I have started recording**. I'd like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record my screen and the audio as we talk today? Okay.

**First Task: Review first prototype (Check Boxes) - 5 minutes / 10 minutes with assistive tech**

Great! Let's go ahead and get started looking at the prototype. I'm going to have you share your screen.

Talk to me about what you can do here: Well I think when the first thing I clicked on is profile so I will take it that I can setup my profile. I don't know if it is separate from myhealthevet or va.gov. When I am toggling I see the left hand side(reading page). It looks like I will toggle into the right of this. Okay, it looks like it is a dialog box where you can edit the notification settings. So if I go to notification settings on the left and click it will it send me to a separate page or is like a quick way to edit the page on this page. I am at the healthcare, appointment reminders. It gives the option of being notified by test for appointments. Okay than it seems like theres another option, it looks like text message may be the default setting but you can get it by email as well. Okay. Once you put in the email it will default to email. I mean you may get both a text and email. Well I mean if I uncheck the text and I put an email it should default to email. It gives you an option to track the prescriptions but it only works at certain VA's so you need to check with the pharmacy.

Expect the page to tell you which pharmacy to contact: I guess if I put all of my medical infomration and I think there will be a space for where I go to the VA to get prescriptions. With that being said when I get to this it should tell me if it is eligible. It would be helpful.

It looks like I have the option to track the prescription by text with a check box. It also ahs the option of getting it through email but I think if you leave it checked for text and put an email than it would provide the option of getting it both ways. Medical images and reports, images might be tricky. I am blind and low vision user. I don't know, I have never actually looked at a medical image using screen readers so I don't know what that would entail. Maybe a descriptions of the image and if its an x-ray it could be hard. Would it be a photo and it says of this and then that's it. So you go to the doctor and get checked out, writes the report, at the end of the day or next day they have a diagnosis. Is that saying that once it is available you can be notified that theres a doctors note available. Is that what this is saying.

Would that be something you need to know to decided on the notifications: I would like to have that option but I don't know how much I would use it. If I am there and I ask the right questions I will get the answers I need. To have it available is a nice option

Expectations on how quick you would get it: Probably within a few days maybe 48-72 hours.

Gives option to add email. Myhealthevet newsletter. It gives the option of subscribing to it and the only option is email because it would be to much text for a text. That is wonderful. So I have a question. It seems like after a screen reader reads it provides the option to add an email than says period. I was just wondering if when I enter the email if the period will be there because than it would be invalid. I think when I went to mute the speech it jumped up to the top. I don't understand that either. Than it says want to get these notification by email than it says first.

Does it say link add email to profile: Yes but then you have to swipe over to get that part. To me that doesn't seem to confusing but maybe to a novice, they may not understand what you are asking. When I first heard it I thought it meant first option than doesn't give you another option so than its like what does first mean.

Reaction to hearing add email multiple times: as long as it is a separate action with the email I no problem but I wonder would it be easier once you add the email to the profile instead of asking separately it should automatically be embedded to each section.

- What questions come up for you as you look at this page?
- **If needed:**  is anything confusing or unclear?
- Show me how you would update your notifications settings from this page: Okay it says only available at certain VA's. It gives the option, well a check box to get notification by text message. More than likely for appointments do I want text, well I have been getting both so I would leave it as such.
- Setting you have it; would you receive text: Um yes. Yes in this prototype. I was just wondering if I check text than go down and put in the email if it would cancel it out or give the option of getting both.
- Go ahead and try to see: okay so I checked text message and it said update save. Than it said notify by text but I was trying to figure out how to put in my phone number
- Not sure if it has your number: Exactly

Here it says notify by text but I don't remember putting in a number to text. Okay so right now I don't know if my email is stored because once I check this. I don't know if my number is stored. Me personally if I got down to that I would go to the left to profile to scan it. all profiles have an option to put in the number. I don't know if that would be clear to others.

That's tough. It says notify my email and theres no way to put in the email address.

What about earlier when we added your email, was that just for one: Well that's what I said I didn't know once it was put in if it would take care of getting it for all of the options. If I were to guess I think it would but I wouldn't be sure unless I did it.

Can you check the second box: for notifying by text. Okay.

Feedback once checked: after I checked the option it said it was saved. Update saved.

Confident it was saved: Yes. Check boxes normally work pretty well.

- How do you feel about the amount of information you have for each notification?
- Do you need any other information in order to make a decision about updating a notification setting?

**Second Task: Add email address - 3 minutes / 6 minutes with assistive tech**

Wonderful, thanks for sharing all of that with me.

- Show me what you would do if you wanted to get notifications by email: I will tap the link to see if it works. Okay, do you want me to type in my email address. After I put in the email I would swipe and click save. Okay it has a save and a cancel option and go back. I would hit save. Okay. I didn't type anything and when I clicked save it said update saved. That is good infomration to let someone with little to no vision know it was actually saved.
- Announced to you: yes

I am wondering what infomraiton it would give you if it were entered incorrectly. As long as it announces that there is an auto, sometimes it won't say or do anything.

- What questions are coming up for you as you go through this?
- **If needed:**  is anything confusing or unclear?

**Third Task: Review prototype B - 5 minutes / 10 minutes with assistive tech**

Thanks for doing that, it's so helpful for us to be able to hear your thoughts on that. Now I'd like to get your feedback on a different approach, and I'll send you a new link through the chat.

Take a look at this page. What do you notice that is different from the other view we looked at? Oh okay well it tell you right there it says what's in the profile is used so I think when it goes to the email and text message info I would say it's already saved so. Okay yeah I like that. I like the infomraiton there right off the top. Okay, it says appointment notification, it says I don't have the text option enabled. The check box is off. That tells me that the notification for reminders that I have neither text or email enabled. Under it says edit. So I take it that it will give the option if you number or email changed you can edit it from that field there.

Allow you to edit contact information: I would imagine yes.

Use the link and tell me how it aligns: okay. Okay woe it says it will send you a notification a week and 1 day before the appointment. okay. okay it gives me the notification that it is send directly. It all depends when its mad so you might not have time to get a week or 1 day notification which makes sense. Okay, I checked that. Um, it looks like when it says edit I think it gives the option to editing the infomration that is already there but it looks like it gives you the same option twice. Yeah.

- What questions come up for you as you review this?
- **If needed:**  is anything confusing or unclear?
- Show me how you would update your notification settings with this approach.
- How do you feel about the level of information you have for each notification on this version of the page?
- Do you need any other information in order to make a decision about updating a notification setting?

**Post-Task Interview - up to 10 minutes**

That's everything I wanted to review with you- thank you so much for your feedback.

- We reviewed two different ways to update notification settings today. Does one approach work better for you than the other?
- Do you have any other thoughts you'd like to share that you haven't had a chance to talk about yet?
- Any questions for me?

**Thank-You and Closing - 2 minutes**

Well we really appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us today. Your feedback is so helpful to us as we continue to work on the site and make sure it really works for Veterans.

Thanks! Lastly, Perigean will be sending you a thank you note with a little blurb that you can pass along to other Veterans you may know to provide them the chance to participate in future research studies.

Thank you so much again, and enjoy the rest of your day!
