# Profile Notification Settings, Adding email as a channel

P12

1/24/23

Notetaker: SH, Perigean

**Moderator logistics**

Before we start, I want to confirm a few pieces of information that were shared with me when you signed up for the study:

Low vision participant

- Can you confirm that you have used My HealtheVet within the last 12 months?
- What kind of email or text notifications have you received from VA in the last 12 months?
- **For screen reader sessions:**  I understand you use screen reader software to navigate the internet, and that you typically use SOFTWARE NAME. Can you confirm you'll be using that in today's session?
- Only uses Zoom text to read it to him when reading large articles. Participant is low vision.

_Start recording._

- **I have started recording**. I'd like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record my screen and the audio as we talk today? Yes.

**First Task: Review first prototype - 5 minutes / 10 minutes with assistive tech**

Great! Let's go ahead and get started looking at the prototype. I'm going to have you share your screen.

Talk to me about what you can do here: I am used to getting very few notifications, mostly regarding my health. This can turn on more if I want or don't want newsletters or redirect them. When you use magnification at this it jumped and it hit it from me than I have to shrink it down. It is dueling adapting tech; they don't always play wall together.

Normally need to toggle to see content: Yes frequently. I get it to a happy place where its still big but shows the site how it should. If I still have issues that you won't see but I have made this huge so only part of it is big. I can read it in detail and its 4 times as big. I do toggle back and fourth using windows control key.

Built in feature: yes I use windows adaptive tech instead of zoom text due to being low vision.

Under notifications they want me to update the email because my real one knows me. healthcare, text is off so that is interesting. I should probably turn appointments as my texts, they are not going there now I only get email reminders. Prescription text is on but I would turn it off I don't want to be bothered because I don't have many prescriptions. I get supplies every 3 months. Newsletter, I am not sure I want to read that yet. partially because in terms of meetings I am in 5 meetings today and then go to BVA meeting right after. I get secure messaging notifications. Pape is useless to me. Appeals because of my status I am blessed with never having to complain about anything and I don't make any payments.

- What questions come up for you as you look at this page? Uh well I just leaded forward because I wanted to know what is under profile. What are the other things besides notifications. I had a question but I answered it by leaning forward. One thing I want to know is how to get out of here.
- **If needed:**  is anything confusing or unclear? No. You may have notification I am a retired IT consultant that developed websites so my ability not to get lost is because I actually fixed broken websites.
- Show me how you would update your notifications settings from this page: The my HealtheVet I would assume theres a video and I am motivated so I would click that to add the email address. It wants me to hit save instead of hitting enter. The reason I tested it is that enter normally says save but it should ask if you want to hit save incase it was by accident. My way to sue a computer is different than others so very little would apply to them. They may need to hit tab. While you are here what they would do and I hardly do is hit tab than space bar. It added the email notifications as an option, it is what I would expect. It is interesting. This is fine. Now I can set both and click save and it says update saved. That's good, I went down because I didn't trust it to tell me but it tells me at the top as well. That's cool. It changed the email notifications though so that's interesting.
- How do you feel about the amount of information you have for each notification?
- Do you need any other information in order to make a decision about updating a notification setting? Most of what I am seeing and my reactions are on the difficulties I have with reading. Because reading text is hard and I have trifocals. If you can picture the mental frustration with constantly to see the words, people like me, we are always angry with eh website and are never happy but we have to live with it. theres a base level of frustrations. When I look at pages I want to make sure it is not showing unimportant infomraiton which by that standard this is one of the best layouts because it doesn't make me feel like theres unimportant like ads. So it is good because it doesn't give me to much, if theres things in each of these, if there is even a hover over popup and you got a simple popup that motivated me I would love that. It could even be a video that talks to me. It would be a setting to turn on for low vision people. Having something that can talk to me is good, now on my smartphone looking at the setting. Many of us have hearing aids and my smartphone talks to me through so I don't bother people. It's like wearing a head set and if its through the va the hearing aid can be connected to the computer and smartphone so they don't need to bother anyone. You could always have turn off audio. I don't want to much information that is distracting like we care about veterans. I know that already it is annoying.

What has changed: you always confirm things happen. That's interesting, what did I just do. I thought I changed the my HealtheVet newsletter. I thought this here the edit, I thought I went in and hit add your email address to your profile. Oh it wasn't not turn on the notification. It should say we can turn on the notification but first you must add the email.

Thought it would automatically add it: yes. It should have automatically turned them on and I clicked edit and I cant change it here.

Questions: No this is what I would expect. The text is okay and I can always make it bigger but then I lose it.

Can you scroll horizontally: normally it would but in this case it is not letting me. Web pages could black that. Normally though for me if I just want to see one thing I would window key plus than see it big and now it scrolls horizontally. Now I am only see notification setting than move my mouse and can see the rest of the page. You can do this if you are trained on windows assistive tec.

How did you get trained to use it: Yes. Years ago I set up schools and kids need bigger text so I learned how to than taught the kids/clients how to change settings as well as magnification. I learned that 20 years ago than 10 years ago I went to the blind veterans center in Tacoma and was a Guinea pig because I wanted to improve the assistive tech to work at professional levels rather than what blind individuals are trained to work. There we came to a problem and found solutions so most of what I do was developed by me and the teacher. So that person is retired and I don't know what they teach now but they learned from teaching me. The computer is 27 in 4k because they helped me find out how I can see to read so I have this and the camera we are using is high resolution as well. All of it was developed with me and the VA's blind veterans centers. I think I pushed them to use windows built in adaptive settings the way I do. I am becoming a Vso to help with adaptive accessibility with their website. I am 70 so I don't know how that will work.

**Second Task: Add email address - 3 minutes / 6 minutes with assistive tech**

Wonderful, thanks for sharing all of that with me.

- Show me what you would do if you wanted to get notifications by email. As a reminder, this is a prototype, so it won't work quite as you expect. But we'll still be able to learn from you.
- What questions are coming up for you as you go through this?
- **If needed:**  is anything confusing or unclear?

**Third Task: Review prototype B - 5 minutes / 10 minutes with assistive tech**

Thanks for doing that, it's so helpful for us to be able to hear your thoughts on that. Now I'd like to get your feedback on a different approach, and I'll send you a new link through the chat.

Take a look at this page. What do you notice that is different from the other view we looked at? It is not much different. Oh yes this is better for example instead of saying on or off it has this which is better. The check boxes tell you if it is set or not. Section 408 accessibility you are probably trying to apply to that, using selectable so that screen readers will read it. I use this so, I don't know if it will show up. If it is busy and small text I select it and click read aloud selection. It is available an many people should know how to use it, hardly anyone knows how to do it. it's a new thing that's came out in the past year. So it is really good. I told you for low vision to much infomration is bad yet when we get something like that we can select and not have it read. Individuals that are blind can't do this but they will be using zoom text. These should be able to be tabbed through and I can over here and the screen reader would go through it but you don't know which side of the page you are on. That needs to be tested by a total but I an low. You have this and this is good, that's the only change I see.

- What questions come up for you as you review this?
- **If needed:**  is anything confusing or unclear?
- Show me how you would update your notification settings with this approach: I think that should be green. It changed the color. Is that a down. What I would do is if you wanted a graphic I would put it under so it doesn't look like another option. That's good. That's the only thing to see there.
- Confident that it is saved: yes based on that this says. You should test to see how fast it is, this should be faster.
- How do you feel about the level of information you have for each notification on this version of the page?
- Do you need any other information in order to make a decision about updating a notification setting?

**Post-Task Interview - up to 10 minutes**

That's everything I wanted to review with you- thank you so much for your feedback.

- We reviewed two different ways to update notification settings today. Does one approach work better for you than the other?
- Do you have any other thoughts you'd like to share that you haven't had a chance to talk about yet?
- Any questions for me?

**Thank-You and Closing - 2 minutes**

Well we really appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us today. Your feedback is so helpful to us as we continue to work on the site and make sure it really works for Veterans.

Thanks! Lastly, Perigean will be sending you a thank you note with a little blurb that you can pass along to other Veterans you may know to provide them the chance to participate in future research studies.

Thank you so much again, and enjoy the rest of your day!
