# Profile Notification Settings, Adding email as a channel

P2

1/19/2023

Notetaker: SH, Perigean

**Moderator logistics**

Before we start, I want to confirm a few pieces of information that were shared with me when you signed up for the study:

- Can you confirm that you have used My HealtheVet within the last 12 months? I get emails and I open them and read them. I haven't actually logged in; I think I know the password. I am able to do that if you want to help.
- What kind of email or text notifications have you received from VA in the last 12 months?
- **For screen reader sessions:**  I understand you use screen reader software to navigate the internet, and that you typically use SOFTWARE NAME. Can you confirm you'll be using that in today's session? Voice Over

_Start recording._

- **I have started recording**. I'd like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record my screen and the audio as we talk today? That's okay. I am okay.
- Are you wearing a headset or headphones: No. I am turning it up as loud as I can.

**First Task: (Check box)Review first prototype - 5 minutes / 10 minutes with assistive tech**

Great! Let's go ahead and get started looking at the prototype. I'm going to have you share your screen.

Talk to me about what you can do here: mobile phone. notify me of appointments check box, notify by text. If you want it by email add it to profile. Prescriptions ship and updates only available at some VA pharmacies. Notify me if shipments check box checkbox . Notify me by text. Want to get them by mail add to profile. Medical images and reports. My HealtheVet newsletter, it keeps asking me to add my email. Veteran appeals and reminder, notify me by text check box uncheck. Notify by text appeal status update.

what is the purpose of the page: I understand it as my HealtheVet and going to the page to see what is available for me.

in terms of what: getting into my HealtheVet and knowing what is there for us. Disability and pension.

Voice over read it to you: Yes

Can you share what helped you understand that its for notifications: it said notifications than gave me a lot of options for appeals and stuff like that.

- What questions come up for you as you look at this page?
- **If needed:**  is anything confusing or unclear? It's not exactly caller what I am trying to connect with you and being on the same page. In terms of the session, yes to get to why I am not able to screenshare.
- Show me how you would update your notifications settings from this page: It is asking me to sign up. Let me see what this says. I was on a link that had. Notifications auto settings incomplete. Okay it has add an email address to my profile.
- How do you feel about the amount of information you have for each notification?
- Do you need any other information in order to make a decision about updating a notification setting?

**Second Task: Add email address - 3 minutes / 6 minutes with assistive tech**

Wonderful, thanks for sharing all of that with me.

- Show me what you would do if you wanted to get notifications by email:

Notification auto save, sign up, login, profile. Notification status. Then they don't have my email address.

After you typed in your email do you know what link you pressed, I didn't finish it I just went back to the top to say cancel and go back.

Change settings for appointment reminders: login, profile, page settings, don't have your email. Add email address to your profile. We will use to contact, mobile phone,. Get healthcare appointment reminder, notify me by text, check box check.

What is the purpose of it: I get notifications by text.

How to not get notifications by text what would you do: uncheck the box. So it says check box unchecked, update saved.

- What questions are coming up for you as you go through this?
- **If needed:**  is anything confusing or unclear?

**Third Task: Review prototype B - 5 minutes / 10 minutes with assistive tech**

Thanks for doing that, it's so helpful for us to be able to hear your thoughts on that. Now I'd like to get your feedback on a different approach, and I'll send you a new link through the chat.

Take a look at this page. What do you notice that is different from the other view we looked at?

- What questions come up for you as you review this?
- **If needed:**  is anything confusing or unclear?
- Show me how you would update your notification settings with this approach.
- How do you feel about the level of information you have for each notification on this version of the page?
- Do you need any other information in order to make a decision about updating a notification setting?

**Post-Task Interview - up to 10 minutes**

That's everything I wanted to review with you- thank you so much for your feedback.

- We reviewed two different ways to update notification settings today. Does one approach work better for you than the other?
- Do you have any other thoughts you'd like to share that you haven't had a chance to talk about yet?
- Any questions for me?

**Thank-You and Closing - 2 minutes**

Well we really appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us today. Your feedback is so helpful to us as we continue to work on the site and make sure it really works for Veterans.

Thanks! Lastly, Perigean will be sending you a thank you note with a little blurb that you can pass along to other Veterans you may know to provide them the chance to participate in future research studies.

Thank you so much again, and enjoy the rest of your day!
