# Profile Notification Settings, Adding email as a channel

P4

1/20/23

Notetaker: SH, Perigean

**Moderator logistics**

Before we start, I want to confirm a few pieces of information that were shared with me when you signed up for the study:

- Can you confirm that you have used My HealtheVet within the last 12 months?  **yes**
- What kind of email or text notifications have you received from VA in the last 12 months? Both for appointments

_Start recording._

- **I have started recording**. I'd like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record my screen and the audio as we talk today? Yeah I am fine with that.

**First Task: Review first prototype( read/edit) - 5 minutes / 10 minutes with assistive tech**

Great! Let's go ahead and get started looking at the prototype. I'm going to have you share your screen.

Talk to me about what you can do here: Is this supposed to be myhealthevet. I guess I can go in here and update my personal infomraiton like phone number. I don't know the difference between personal and contact, I can see my appointments, account security is like password resets, I am not sure about connected apps. Then I guess I need to update an email address which I could do in my profile I guess. I can track prescriptions and get secure messaging.

- What questions come up for you as you look at this page? Um. No questions come up it is just plain and boring looking. I guess that's how it should look right now.
- **If needed:**  is anything confusing or unclear? No it is straight forward.
- **Purpose of the page:** I would say it is a landing page to figure out what I want to do next like a home page to figure out where to go.
- **For va.** gov or just for what: I guess for va.gov homepage. This says profile so I would need to click on something to get here first.
- Show me how you would update your notifications settings from this page: Um I the first thing says add email so I would click on the link to update it.
- How was the process: it was simple I clicked the link and typed it in. it worked as expected
- How to update the setting: I would go here, it's kind of weird I am on the notification settings but I don't know why it starts here.
- Why its on this page instead of another: Yeah like I am already over here so why would I click here.

If I wanted to edit I would look to see what I wanted to edit.

- How do you feel about the amount of information you have for each notification? I would assume I click on edit and make the change I wanted like for appointments. I see that it is off so I would go in there and turn it on.
- Try to do that for appointment reminders: selected by text. Reminding me 1 week and 1 day ahead is not helpful because I will forget. Maybe a few days would be helpful but an entire week is not unless there are additional reminders.
- How was that process: Um. It was simple. I guess because it is not working correctly it turned on email not text.
- If real it would say text on: yes.
- Do you need any other information in order to make a decision about updating a notification setting?
- Notification opens for each one, can you tell me your thoughts: The options for types of notifications, um, its not giving me a text option for all. I don't know if it's because they want to do email instead but for newsletter I get that. But what is this doing my HealtheVet newsletter email notification, if I turn it on will it send me one or will it let me know they will send me one. Notification means they will tell me they are doing it. activation this one would be them telling me they will send one, it should be sign up for newsletter. Paperless delivery, like this to for the IRS its not a notification it's like I want this to happen. The others like secure messaging is a good thing. I wish it were a text instead of email because it gets lost. A text that lets me know someone responded is more helpful.

**Second Task: Add email address - 3 minutes / 6 minutes with assistive tech**

Wonderful, thanks for sharing all of that with me.

- Show me what you would do if you wanted to get notifications by email. As a reminder, this is a prototype, so it won't work quite as you expect. But we'll still be able to learn from you.
- What questions are coming up for you as you go through this?
- **If needed:**  is anything confusing or unclear?

**Third Task: Review prototype B - 5 minutes / 10 minutes with assistive tech**

Thanks for doing that, it's so helpful for us to be able to hear your thoughts on that. Now I'd like to get your feedback on a different approach, and I'll send you a new link through the chat.

Take a look at this page. What do you notice that is different from the other view we looked at? This one has options for me to select without going to another screen. I can click it and it just does it were the others I had to go into edit.

Thoughts: this is simpler and it just saves it and just does it. I can see its not on and I can just turn it on.

- What questions come up for you as you review this?
- **If needed:**  is anything confusing or unclear?
- Show me how you would update your notification settings with this approach.
- How do you feel about the level of information you have for each notification on this version of the page? Um its still the same. Nothing different it is the same to me.
- Confident it is saved: it says update saved and I saw the change so it was productive. The other one was like; I like the one that it says update saved.
- Did you notice under the heading it said update saved: I didn't notice that.
- Do you need any other information in order to make a decision about updating a notification setting?

**Post-Task Interview - up to 10 minutes**

That's everything I wanted to review with you- thank you so much for your feedback.

- We reviewed two different ways to update notification settings today. Does one approach work better for you than the other? No, I mean the second one is easier and I don't need to go to another screen. One over the other doesn't matter.
- How to undo a change here: oh man I hope I can just uncheck it and it goes away.
- Didn't look for a save button as you make the changes: No as soon as I say the update saved I did not look for one. Looking at this screen I would think to click on what I wanted and go to the bottom to click save all.
- Do you have any other thoughts you'd like to share that you haven't had a chance to talk about yet? No, I mean its straightforward.
- Any questions for me? No, is this going to be in MyHeatheVet or va.gov.

**Thank-You and Closing - 2 minutes**

Well we really appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us today. Your feedback is so helpful to us as we continue to work on the site and make sure it really works for Veterans.

Thanks! Lastly, Perigean will be sending you a thank you note with a little blurb that you can pass along to other Veterans you may know to provide them the chance to participate in future research studies.

Thank you so much again and enjoy the rest of your day!
