# Profile Notification Settings, Adding email as a channel

P6

1/20/23

Notetaker: SH, Perigean

**Moderator logistics**

Before we start, I want to confirm a few pieces of information that were shared with me when you signed up for the study:

- Can you confirm that you have used My HealtheVet within the last 12 months? Correct I have.
- What kind of email or text notifications have you received from VA in the last 12 months? As early as last week I have a VA appointment reminder in email and text. I have also gotten it when they send out my prescriptions I get a text notification but most of the time I will get an email as well stating that they have shipped.

_Start recording._

- **I have started recording**. I'd like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record my screen and the audio as we talk today? Yes

**First Task: Review first prototype(Check Box) - 5 minutes / 10 minutes with assistive tech**

Great! Let's go ahead and get started looking at the prototype. I'm going to have you share your screen.

Talk to me about what you can do here: Add an email, notification page,(reading left hand side) They notify me by text for appointments and tracking for prescriptions. I guess you can consider it an update because it tells me it ships, I don't get the locations of it or tracking infomraiton like FedEx. Medical imaging and reports, okay. My HealtheVet newsletter, secure messaging I get those my email now, IRS I get email through DFAS so it is interesting to see it on the my HealtheVet page. I get the healthcare from DFAS. That's the retirement pay system. That is interesting I haven't had to do appeals but it is interesting to see it on the page, than payments. I just know I get paid at the end of the month or the 1st of the month.

Medical records sound: Right now if I do some sort of testing that requires an image or report. It states that they may come back in 26 hours. so I just need to go check but it would be cool if I got the notification that it was available. I think it would be a cool features, we had healthcare options and anytime you had a procedure that requires an image or report they send you an email stating the results are ready so it could be cool to have it with the va and I don't need to check. For them to let me know then go online to see it would be good.

- What questions come up for you as you look at this page? No but there are some good things here.
- **If needed:**  is anything confusing or unclear? No
- Show me how you would update your notifications settings from this page: over here at notifications setting. Okay if this one at the top I would add my email. The question is would it auto populate throughout the documents or would I need to add it everywhere.
- What do you expect: I would hope that it would auto populate throughout all of the places to I can do this. I see that my options are that it says notify by text or email so it tells me it updated everywhere.
- I would first save my email and my mobile phone. That's where I would go first.
- Change on of these settings, how would you do that: when you say change you mean the option on how to be notified. If I selected text but want email. Right here I guess you can do both. As far as changing options I can select and deselect. It updated it and now it just has notify me by text.
- Why did you scroll: that's just me I always do that. I like to look ahead.
- Anything you were looking for: no I ma just looking and trying to remember what I saw when I first scrolled.
- How do you feel about the amount of information you have for each notification? I think its good, those are my only options and I think that's enough. I get 100 emails that I need to delete a day. I will know which I selected so I would get it on way or the other and then once I have it I can delete it.
- Do you need any other information in order to make a decision about updating a notification setting? I am going to say no but I do have a question. The first two I had the text option but down near imagines and other options text options when away but board appeal the email went away as well as payments. All options would work or me but I am wondering why they went away
- Why do you think they went away: through testing maybe that's what the preference at large was. I don't know why unless I click on the notifications and it is a hyperlink. Unless in doing so you cant just click from a text to get to the information. I am just curious because it is just a notification so why take an email/text option away. In my HealtheVet if I go to get my information I can click and it auto selects everything so I don't need to go click those things so if I wanted to be notification by all is it or possible a button at the top to get all notifications.
- I am curious a button at the top to select everything, if you had it at the top would it be useful or want one at the top/bottom: Maybe because on this page you have healthcare, appeal, payments. I am not interested in appeals so maybe at the subdivision if it is applicable. For appeals I have two options and payment on 1. Under healthcare I have multiple in the subdivision so I would like a button to select all. After the first time and I logged on here as much as I do my HealtheVet I would scroll down because something may be added that wasn't there last time so I could click there and get it all. If I don't then I can just check the ones I want. Under health care I would want notifications for all of those things. That one button in healthcare I would click and I would automatically get both text and email for me. it would be 1 button instead of 6.
- How to know when a new notification has been added: I don't but I know websites are updated all the time. It would be discovered but the VA does a good job. I read the newsletters they do a great job about notifying you of new things. I kind of just scrolled the last one but I would think the va would publish something in their new letter than I would go see what is going on. If I needed to make an adjustment I would than go about my business.

**Second Task: Add email address - 3 minutes / 6 minutes with assistive tech**

Wonderful, thanks for sharing all of that with me.

- Show me what you would do if you wanted to get notifications by email. As a reminder, this is a prototype, so it won't work quite as you expect. But we'll still be able to learn from you.
- What questions are coming up for you as you go through this?
- **If needed:**  is anything confusing or unclear?

**Third Task: Review prototype B - 5 minutes / 10 minutes with assistive tech**

Thanks for doing that, it's so helpful for us to be able to hear your thoughts on that. Now I'd like to get your feedback on a different approach, and I'll send you a new link through the chat.

Take a look at this page. What do you notice that is different from the other view we looked at? This one has bells and it ahs an edit but I don't really know what I am editing. Can I click on this. I don't really like that. I mean you gave me the buttons I would like to just click on and off the bells here. I see the bells are crossed off if it is off but if I want to edit it than it just takes me to the last view on the first link. I don't like this one unless you give the option to click on and off the bells. Its pretty to look at but I don't like that.

Want to make change directly instead of a second page: yes. If I was given this first than it wouldn't seem like extra work but the first one was just 1 click. Now I know there was an easier way to do this.

- What questions come up for you as you review this?
- **If needed:**  is anything confusing or unclear?
- Show me how you would update your notification settings with this approach.
- How do you feel about the level of information you have for each notification on this version of the page? You mean like text vs email. Oh yeah that sufficient for this page. I need to dump the other page out my mind but for this page it is sufficient.
- Do you need any other information in order to make a decision about updating a notification setting?

Last tab, click save here. Did you notice the update save under the header: I did not notice it there I noticed it when I updated it with notify by email it says update saved. Then when I unclicked it is said update saved.

**Post-Task Interview - up to 10 minutes**

That's everything I wanted to review with you- thank you so much for your feedback.

- We reviewed two different ways to update notification settings today. Does one approach work better for you than the other?
- Do you have any other thoughts you'd like to share that you haven't had a chance to talk about yet? I think this is probably pretty cool and will be beneficial to have the option to set it one time and whenever they make updates I will automatically get it.
- Any questions for me? nope. I appreciate the work that you are putting in making the sites beneficial for us.

**Thank-You and Closing - 2 minutes**

Well we really appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us today. Your feedback is so helpful to us as we continue to work on the site and make sure it really works for Veterans.

Thanks! Lastly, Perigean will be sending you a thank you note with a little blurb that you can pass along to other Veterans you may know to provide them the chance to participate in future research studies.

Thank you so much again, and enjoy the rest of your day!
