# Profile Notification Settings, Adding email as a channel

P7

1/20/23

Notetaker: SH, Perigean

**Moderator logistics**

Before we start, I want to confirm a few pieces of information that were shared with me when you signed up for the study:

- Can you confirm that you have used My HealtheVet within the last 12 months? Oh yes, probably weekly.
- What kind of email or text notifications have you received from VA in the last 12 months? If I go on to leave messages than I get emails stating that I have an inbox message than the text are reminders for up coming appointments or to confirm the appointment.
- Zoom text, will you be using it: I am on my computer so I wouldn't need it.

**First Task: Review first prototype(read/edit) - 5 minutes / 10 minutes with assistive tech**

Great! Let's go ahead and get started looking at the prototype. I'm going to have you share your screen.

Talk to me about what you can do here: It looks just like infomration for my account I guess. Appointments, notifications I guess. Um. Board of veteran appeals and payments which is new. There are locations I would go to separately all in one spot. Well from stuff I see on my HealtheVet I wouldn't see board of appeals or payments I would need to go to ebenefits but the notifications for it all is in one spot.

Okay to have it here: For me yes because I do similar things at work. If is related to your account it is easier to have it on one page.

- What questions come up for you as you look at this page? I wouldn't have any.
- **If needed:**  is anything confusing or unclear? No, it is basic infomraiton.
- Show me how you would update your notifications settings from this page: right here add your email, you could put your email address in there
- Expect that this would add it to the one or all: I guess, thinking of notifications, it would be a radio button yes or no if you want the notifications. Your account should already have your email there unless you want a different email.
- What do you notice: It has changed so you have edits for selecting on or off whereas previous you needed to add your email first. Probably just that it activated something else. I expected that it would already have that infomraiton there, the email address because you are logged in.
- How to update an appointment: edit than select what you want. Turn it on or off than save it.
- Expect it would say something else if it worked: Thinking how it works it has our email so it would kick back. It should have shot a notice that it doesn't have a number to send it to. It would be helpful for those that forgot to add an number.
- How do you feel about the amount of information you have for each notification?
- Do you need any other information in order to make a decision about updating a notification setting? Um, I don't have anything no. I mean it seems straight forward. Just my viewpoint on how its put together, to do extra clicking isnt something I try to build into something. I would have edit I would just edit where we are at now.
- Notice some are for text and email or just one or the other, thoughts: Um, I mean I could imagine that some of the infomration is just to big but if you are just notifying it may not matter. Images and reports are large so if theres not a link or file with the notification you could probably do it with text with a link back to someone. It depends on how people like to get things. If people only like text it could exclude some.

**Second Task: Add email address - 3 minutes / 6 minutes with assistive tech**

Wonderful, thanks for sharing all of that with me.

- Show me what you would do if you wanted to get notifications by email. As a reminder, this is a prototype, so it won't work quite as you expect. But we'll still be able to learn from you.
- What questions are coming up for you as you go through this?
- **If needed:**  is anything confusing or unclear?

**Third Task: Review prototype B - 5 minutes / 10 minutes with assistive tech**

Thanks for doing that, it's so helpful for us to be able to hear your thoughts on that. Now I'd like to get your feedback on a different approach, and I'll send you a new link through the chat.

Take a look at this page. What do you notice that is different from the other view we looked at? It has selection right there instead of having to click edit and go to another screen. The selection boxes are better than the edit.

- What questions come up for you as you review this? I don't see anything different that raises questions.
- **If needed:**  is anything confusing or unclear?
- Show me how you would update your notification settings with this approach: just by selecting the buttons here.
- Is it what you expected: Yeah I think for me it's a lot better. You are already logged in and in the notifications area and you turn it on or off for what you want. It is simpler and less clicking.
- All you need to do is check the box, is that clear: yea h it is clear that's what you want either on or off.
- No save button, did you notice that: yes but it pops up with update saved as you select it so it provides enough feedback there.
- How do you feel about the level of information you have for each notification on this version of the page?
- Do you need any other information in order to make a decision about updating a notification setting?

**Post-Task Interview - up to 10 minutes**

That's everything I wanted to review with you- thank you so much for your feedback.

- We reviewed two different ways to update notification settings today. Does one approach work better for you than the other?
- Do you have any other thoughts you'd like to share that you haven't had a chance to talk about yet? Um, I was just thinking if this is new that you will be pushing out to veterans. I try to help than and myself. I understand going in, I do a lot of SharePoint things at work so I build things like this. I was thinking about what you are being notified about if people actually understand that. Like payments that we would go to another site, I wonder if they understand that or board appeal reminders, maybe have a description of what type of infomraiton would be coming. Appointment reminders and prescriptions are clear. But for the others a descriptions of what it is and what to expect. Not everyone is savvy and there are a lot of older veterans that don't do the computer stuff that well.
- Do to the check boxes, is that what you are talking about: Yes something like that one.
- Feel like the non-health infomration there is enough to know if you want to turn it on or off: Yeah, I mean it tells me what to expect out of it. it is all up to others but I look at the notification period a week and 1 day out. it takes a few months for appointments to happen than people wait 2 months then get a 1 week notice out if they would remember.
- What about for you for board appeals: Um Maybe if you know you have an appeal out there that you are waiting for the appointment it is clear enough. I am saying some descriptor text of what will be happening. I don't have much to say because I have not been involved with it, tis just a thought.
- What would you expect if you checked the box: If I were thinking more of it if it could popup with all of the appointments there that would have reminders sent. I think if you are doing an appointment or anything with a date if something could popup and end you it at that time than the 1 week out and 1 day out.
- Get feedback through the check box, automatically get a text stating you've subscribed: it would be nice to know that it went through. It doesn't need to be big but just a reminder that would be helpful and takes a lot of though.
- Any questions for me?

**Thank-You and Closing - 2 minutes**

Well we really appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us today. Your feedback is so helpful to us as we continue to work on the site and make sure it really works for Veterans.

Thanks! Lastly, Perigean will be sending you a thank you note with a little blurb that you can pass along to other Veterans you may know to provide them the chance to participate in future research studies.

Thank you so much again, and enjoy the rest of your day!
