# Profile Notification Settings, Adding email as a channel

P8

1/23/23

Notetaker: SH, Perigean

**Moderator logistics**

Before we start, I want to confirm a few pieces of information that were shared with me when you signed up for the study:

- Can you confirm that you have used My HealtheVet within the last 12 months? Yes
- What kind of email or text notifications have you received from VA in the last 12 months? I get appointment reminders and those type of things.

_Start recording._

- **I have started recording**. I'd like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record my screen and the audio as we talk today? Yes

**First Task: Review first prototype(Check Box) - 5 minutes / 10 minutes with assistive tech**

Great! Let's go ahead and get started looking at the prototype. I'm going to have you share your screen.

Zoom on phone or computer: I am using it on my Android.

Talk to me about what you can do here: If I am scrolling on the page it looks like I can set up my notifications for appointments, track prescriptions, notified for that as well. Um, I can check my x rays, images, sign up for newsletters, notifications for secure messages and the irs form. I can make payments and appeals.

What questions come up for you as you look at this page? It looks like it is a one stop shop. I am guessing I am trying to figure out, I don't really have any questions but I feel like if you need to get more into your health you can click on it. well this is really just a notification page, would there be a link if you had a questions about your healthcare.

What if you did have a question what would you do: for me I would go back to the app.

- **If needed:**  is anything confusing or unclear? I guess like this isnt the homepage right. Okay it's just the notifications page, than I would know where to go before I go here anyway. It seems to be throughout and the text is an option as a reminder which is good. I mean I guess if you fill out the email part that would popup as well. Okay so I put in the email and now it has that options. That's pretty cool. It makes it helpful because I go back to my email because than I save it on my spread sheet.
- Show me how you would update your notifications settings from this page: so if I were going to update it I would click notify by email than it automatically saved. Okay.
- Is it what you expected: it is actually really easy. It makes things easier.
- How do you feel about the amount of information you have for each notification? I thought it was going to be a lot more. I think it is the right amount, its not to much like continuous scrolling. People in a hurry wouldn't want to scroll a lot. This is only one good swipe for everything.
- Do you need any other information in order to make a decision about updating a notification setting? I think that's it. text and email, those are the main forms for notifications.
- Did you notice that some are only available in one format: I did I see the board appeals and it only has text.
- Thoughts as to why: I was looking at it and the IRS infomration to get the tax form you could pull up on the phone but it would be better by email. The newsletter, maybe a link to it by text but not to read it on your pone. Than secure messages than it shouldn't be a text it should be on the app.
- Secure messages not a text: maybe not even an email I think the notification that you ave one by text or email to let you know that you need to check the messages. If I contacted my provider I get a message that I have a response than need to login to read the message.
- Helpful telling you that there's a message : yes exactly. I think for that section than text and email are good options.
- Did you notice theres no save button: For each of the boxes, I didn't notice that. The other day when you have a UPS package you want to be notified by text or email. Now that you mentioned it I didn't notice it. that would help to confirm. For it to say autosaved or to have a save button for peace of mind.

**Second Task: Add email address - 3 minutes / 6 minutes with assistive tech**

Wonderful, thanks for sharing all of that with me.

- Show me what you would do if you wanted to get notifications by email: goes to add email, types in email, click save.
- What questions are coming up for you as you go through this?
- **If needed:**  is anything confusing or unclear?

**Third Task: Review prototype B - 5 minutes / 10 minutes with assistive tech**

Thanks for doing that, it's so helpful for us to be able to hear your thoughts on that. Now I'd like to get your feedback on a different approach, and I'll send you a new link through the chat.

Take a look at this page. What do you notice that is different from the other view we looked at? I actually like this on because you have the option to turn it on when you see it as on than you know its on. Again there are some without both options. Like I see email notifications than for appeals only text notification. It looks like it just lets you know. If I were to hit edit could I turn it on.

- What questions come up for you as you review this?
- **If needed:**  is anything confusing or unclear?
- Show me how you would update your notification settings with this approach: Clicked both and save.
- Thoughts: I think it definitely helps when you go to the next page you know its saved. Unless with the ups thing at the bottom once it clicked have save these changes.
- On this page: yes than when you go out then come back see that changes or have it say all changes have been saved. Than maybe get a text confirmation that goes to my phone that tells me I have opted into text notifications to know that it works.
- How do you feel about the level of information you have for each notification on this version of the page? It is the same. Again it is not overwhelming so it is easy to navigate through.
- Do you need any other information in order to make a decision about updating a notification setting? Um, not here. I think everything is like the last page. It makes it easy to find what I am looking for. Not to much to read and its all right there.

**Post-Task Interview - up to 10 minutes**

That's everything I wanted to review with you- thank you so much for your feedback.

- We reviewed two different ways to update notification settings today. Does one approach work better for you than the other? I did like the first one because theres more information but not enough to overwhelm me I feel. It is spaced out a bit more. I do like the check boxes and then it says update saved.
- Why do you like that: it is like a confirmation like it worked than again if I got a message stating that I opted into the text notifications would be like the ups thing. You get the initial saved message so in the future you know that the update will come. That's the thing about the email, most people have their phones and it will say missed message.
- Do you have any other thoughts you'd like to share that you haven't had a chance to talk about yet? not for this page. Just the board of appeals page with only the text option.
- Any questions for me?

**Thank-You and Closing - 2 minutes**

Well we really appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us today. Your feedback is so helpful to us as we continue to work on the site and make sure it really works for Veterans.

Thanks! Lastly, Perigean will be sending you a thank you note with a little blurb that you can pass along to other Veterans you may know to provide them the chance to participate in future research studies.

Thank you so much again, and enjoy the rest of your day!
