# Profile Notification Settings, Adding email as a channel

P9

1/23/23

Notetaker: SH, Perigean

**Moderator logistics**

Before we start, I want to confirm a few pieces of information that were shared with me when you signed up for the study:

- Can you confirm that you have used My HealtheVet within the last 12 months? Yes I can it has been on my email.
- What kind of email or text notifications have you received from VA in the last 12 months? Yes
- Android device: Yes

_Start recording._

- **I have started recording**. I'd like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record my screen and the audio as we talk today? Got it

**First Task: Review first prototype(read/edit) - 5 minutes / 10 minutes with assistive tech**

Great! Let's go ahead and get started looking at the prototype. I'm going to have you share your screen.

Talk to me about what you can do here: well it says they don't have my email so add an email to profile, a number to call. I see profile notification settings and advises me that it doesn't have my email and gives a contact number to call. drop down to appointment reminders, prescription/tracking. Updates, medical images/reports. I like this. It is right in front of me. board of appeals, outstanding. Payments. This is easy to navigate

Like it: usually the old way I need to hunt to decide what I want to select, it's not always obvious to me, just me not talking about others. I hunt and peck on the other menu, this on is right here. Medical and images are easy to select if I want to see the x-rays it's right there I don't need to figure out what there is to select

What menu are you referring to: My HealtheVet you have to select what you want in order to find what you want like x ray . this is laid out for me and is easier to find.

- What questions come up for you as you look at this page? No everything is included for what I would do. Where would I go to start receiving life insurance or burial infomraiton.
- What would you normally do: I guess I would go to the search button and put in life insurance to see if it would take me there.
- **If needed:**  is anything confusing or unclear?
- Show me how you would update your notifications settings from this page: I would go back to profile than add an email address to your profile but I would need to login first right. Okay so add an email and it would take me to my profile. I guess it only lets you add the email and nothing else.
- Sounds like it wasn't what you expected: I thought I would see more of my profile.
- How do you feel about it only taking you to the email: I would search to find my profile to make sure it is all correct. Maybe I don't want the current email and use a different one.
- What would you do from here: Well, me I would go back to locate my profile information before I would add another email address. Let's see I would click the back button.
- How to change appointment setting: Okay, that's nice that it has a text notification on or off. I see the text notification and the bell is turned off, if I want them by email than I need to add my email. I would hit the edit button. All it does is give me an expanded infomraiton about appointments and allows me to add my email at this point without going back. Again I don't see my profile so I clicked back.
- How do you feel about the amount of information you have for each notification? If I hit the edit button it tells me more but it tells me the same but more in depth infomration is given than repeats the question so you can decide to add the email at that point, you don't need to go back to the initial page to do that.
- Do you need any other information in order to make a decision about updating a notification setting? Again my issue is knowing what is in my profile because when I login I don't use my email I use my username. I don't use an email to login and I get notifications via text to my know.
- Think it might be missing: I have one I do but I set it that I prefer to receive text messages.

**Second Task: Add email address - 3 minutes / 6 minutes with assistive tech**

Wonderful, thanks for sharing all of that with me.

- Show me what you would do if you wanted to get notifications by email: okay I am on that page.
- How does this align with what you expect: we have saved your email address in your profile . (reading page) Well see it asked me to add an email so it assumed I didn't have on to begin with. Alright.
- Feedback: Looks good.
- How has it changed: Um, everything is condensed into this. So when I login everything would be under my profile to select when I login. Before when I logged in it would be the initial page than I would have to select what I wanted to view like lab results. Under this it is already in my profile so it would be easy for me to select without hunting or pecking.
- How to change the appointment settings now that your email is there: Okay I finished. It said it will notify me via phone and then it says email address but I thought I chose text message. I don't recall choosing email.
- What questions are coming up for you as you go through this?

Did you notice update saved under the banner: Yes I did.

- **If needed:**  is anything confusing or unclear?

**Third Task: Review prototype B - 5 minutes / 10 minutes with assistive tech**

Thanks for doing that, it's so helpful for us to be able to hear your thoughts on that. Now I'd like to get your feedback on a different approach, and I'll send you a new link through the chat.

Take a look at this page. What do you notice that is different from the other view we looked at? It gives me the option to notify me by text or email under everything.

Had that option on the other view: No. I don't particularly like this prototype this would drive me crazy. I only want to be notified by email for everything. I don't want to have to chose to be notified by email or text. I think this would work for some people. All I need to be notified about is prescriptions and appointments. I am already notified by text for appointments, and call, mail, and email reminders as well. I don't want to miss the appointment because I have memory issue. I almost missed this appointment because I was going to take the cat to get its nails trimmed but then I was like oh shit. Cats still in her cage.

Is it the amount of options that would make you crazy: yes. Like let me know the day before or a few hours before instead of days before. Then I hope to be notified the day before. 4 days to be reminded, do you really think I would remember. It might work for those with better cognitive recognition. That's the only objection I have, this might work for other people.

Imagining this is your profile, would you get shipping and prescription notifications: I appreciate the text notifications and I get emails. Here I would need to select notify me for both . Nice it lets me know it has been saved. Also this avoids me having to communicate verbally with the pharmacy. I would trust that this works and I don't need to call. I understand that mail has issues but if I get the notification from the VA I would be happy.

Would you feel confident that you would get the notifications: no because like I said the mail has a lot of issues.

- What questions come up for you as you review this? Oh I like this board of veteran appeals. I really like that one. Instead of waiting and wondering and calling the Vso, having to use a third person to find something out. always left in the dark but now you have a way for the updates. The thing is that you may check that but it may not always work either so you might need the VSO to intercede for you.
- What gives you the sense it might not work: it doesn't tell me what's taking so long, how far back is my claim, things like that.
- It doesn't tell you, this page or the selection: the board of veterans appeals. Just because I say notify me doesn't mean I will get it in a timely manner. i wish it had more infomraiton to provide.
- Like what type of information: like where am I, how long has it been there, has anyone even looked at it.
- Expect that on this page: hopefully, why not.
- **If needed:**  is anything confusing or unclear?
- Show me how you would update your notification settings with this approach.
- How do you feel about the level of information you have for each notification on this version of the page? I would use them. I also like the ones that say payments. It is interesting to see when I go into the bank account when I look for future deposit, I notice it is sitting there 3 days prior than it is available. I don't know why the banks get it 3 days prior to posting it. if you have it you better give it to me know. It is nice when they notify you that it has been deposited even though I know it has been sitting there for days. Maybe some of these can be combined.
- Do you need any other information in order to make a decision about updating a notification setting?

**Post-Task Interview - up to 10 minutes**

That's everything I wanted to review with you- thank you so much for your feedback.

- We reviewed two different ways to update notification settings today. Does one approach work better for you than the other?
- Do you have any other thoughts you'd like to share that you haven't had a chance to talk about yet?
- Any questions for me?

**Thank-You and Closing - 2 minutes**

Well we really appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us today. Your feedback is so helpful to us as we continue to work on the site and make sure it really works for Veterans.

Thanks! Lastly, Perigean will be sending you a thank you note with a little blurb that you can pass along to other Veterans you may know to provide them the chance to participate in future research studies.

Thank you so much again, and enjoy the rest of your day!
