# P10
**Immediate alert, 50% or higher disiability rating, computer**

Note: Participant sometimes uses a screen reader for long content (not due to vision), but didn't use it for this session. 

Please note: these are not verbatum notes, except where indicated by quotes

M= Moderator

P= Participant 10


_recording accepted_

(talked a lot about processes when first got out of military)

P: (on immediate alert) You can fill out a shorter one? wow. That's pretty good. 

M: What's your thought about that?

P: That would be good. You know to fill out a shorter application, I think that would be good. Because they want to know everything, but like place of birth, that's easy.

P: (on race, ethnicity, origin question) Ok what is your race, you sometimes I don't like to answer that, because sometimes I find that we were alot. Our ancestry, we were Russian, Spaniard let's see, Chinese, and Native American, and Mexican. 

P: Postal code oh your zip code.

P: Alright other insurance, never use tricare, nope. Oh group number oh no, no, no 

P: (gets errors for group and policy number) hu! Oh hmm no I don't have Tricare, but they're required. So what would you put there? N/A not applicable? 

M: Just to make sure I understand, the policy, group code those, you're thinking if for the Tricare and you don't have that?

P: Yeah, it's not?

M: That's really good feedback for me, so what it really is.

M: and before I say anything, what would you do if you were really filling this out?

P: Well I would just put N/A

M: That's totally legitimate, what it is talking about, is your insurance. So whatever your insurance is it wants one or the other. But I totally get that that's not clear.

P: Yeah because it highlights it when I push continue it shows up in red that you have to fill something out (puts N/A). Let's see if that'll take it. huh yeah. 

P: Oh no. Affordable care act? no, I have my own insurance so I don't fill that out.

P: Select you're preferred VA, audi murphy. Oh where, I guess Texas, I thought they meant the name of the hospital itself. It says select your preferred medical facility, but then it says state oh my eyes. Then we have top put that, I think it's south texas, I don't see audi murphy. No that's in laredo, nope. But that's not the one (reading list) maybe there's more. I know it's south texas. It has south texas but different ones.

M: What would do if you were stuck on this?

P: Yeah really. like is there something that says...or maybe other. Does it have anything do you know?

M: I'm noting this down, but if I wasn't here what would you do?

P: I would pick on in San Antonio, but oh god (still reading) I'm looking at all of them.

M: Feel free to pick one for our purposes

P: This one is in San Antonio, but this is a clinic, I go to the big hospial, they have all these services and stuff.

P: Oh would I want them (to contact), yeah they do that. They send the emails and texts to remind you here's your list and remind you to go.

M: What's your preferred contact method?

P: I do it on both for me, on email and my text. If I wave a wand it would be a text, it's easier than looking through my email, but they do both and they also print out my scheduled appointments. Yeah it has changed. 

M: (on confirmation page) look at it and let me know if you have any thoughts

P: Alright. huh. They did my husbands right away, to say he was qualified, gave him an ID card. Compared to mine ahha, but that was back in the 90s. 

M: You said that was recently?

P: Yeah he just started going, he was like me, he waited, but it's pretty good now. I think. Better than I remember, and really they see a lot of Veterans, a lot.

P: (about the confirmation page) It's ok here, I would think. It says in a week,that's pretty good. 

M: Thinking about just today, just this experience of going through this application, tell me overall, how was it for you?

P: It was ok, it really asked the important questions and as to what route to take. The shorter method was good, except some difficulties. I had to answer some as N/A or couldn't find my clinic or hospital. I think they need to be updated, because here in San Antonio they also just opened a brand new, big outpaitent clinic. It looks bigger than the hospital itself. 

P: But this portion was pretty good. Because you see, us old people, my husband and I, we're not too computer saavy, so we prefer to talk to real people not automation. 

M: And if you had a friend who was just going to applly now, what would you say about the online experience?

P: Our son, he refuses to go to the VA hospital. I have insurance for them through his job. I try to convince him. 

M: You saw that it was a shorter experience, what do you think?

P: I think that was short enough. If you were to go shorter it might be too short and you might miss something.

M: And as far as your expectation of how long it was going to take when you started it versus how long it did take, how did that compare. 

P: Oh that was good, cause like I said, me and typing, computers, do not go together, but I thought I did that pretty fast, and someone who's good with computers whew they're be finished in a hurry. So It's good. Good time. Good length. 

M: And how do you know if someone is going to get a shorter application or not? What do you think is that indicator?

P: Oh I know what you're saying. If they are on a computer at home. Was it a choice?

M: I'll let you answer first

P: I think it was a choice, well yeah, I think it was a choice, and I took that route. People want to know faster, yes or no. And what I found out at the VA, it's kind of weird, like my husband, I finally for him in and he does get seen, but he also has Medicare and my insurance so we found out that the VA system does not take Medicare, because they've been sending him some bills. Because his primary is Medicare and secondary is medical insurance, but they refused to do that. So we had to pay the bill, and they said send it to your insurance and see if they reimburse you. I said, it doesn't make any sense. Like that's why we have secondary insurance. It doesn't make sense. 

M: Do you have any other questions or thoughts?

P: No just the one about being able to find the hospital that we do go to. 

M: Yes, definitely noted. 

P: It was pretty good, it was pretty good, I was thinking back in the 90s where you had to fill out everything by hand. So it was shorter, even me, being a person to use a computer, it was still shorter for me, so that was good. And I think a lot of the faster people would appreciate it. Just answer quickly, and do it! 

M: Do you think you recommend someone to do it online or recommend them to go in person?

P: No, I would do the young people on the computer, and in our group, I would tell them about the computer version, it would be faster lalala, but if they're like us, well then call them, call the number talk to a person, or if you still don't feel comfortable you can go in there, waste your gas, go. I'll give them the options. 


_thanks and closing_




