# P12
**Self-disclose, 50% or greater disability rating, computer**

Please note: these are not verbatum notes, except where indicated by quotes

M= moderator

P= Participant 12

_recording accepted_

P: (on intro) So it says have you applied for VA health care, but there's no yes or no. It just says sign in to check your application staus so if I say no it should go on to another step, shouldn't it?

M: Sure that would make sense. So then what would you do in that case, since you don't see that button?

P: So then I would have to call someone I guess. Or I wouldn't know what to do. (reading) Have you applied for health care, no.

P: I don't have an application to check

M: Do you have an online VA account?

P: Yes, use it all the time.

M: In this case I'll have you scroll down a bit more. 

P: Oh optional, I didn't know that. 

M: Which part?

P: Optional information, people didn't know that, because they automatically ask income and then tell people you're not eligible on your income, and that's not supposed to be a true statement. I say that to say that it shouldn't be that income driven to that extent where it actually stops people from applying for benefits. 

M: So now that you went all the way through, any thoughts?

P: I think, the need help, all of that, I would put at the beginning.

M: Can you speak more on that?

P: The reason why is because not everyone is computer literate, you still have a lot of older Veterans that are not computer literate. So if they have trouble, they're just going to give up. You have a lot of people say that, "I couldn't get online, this happened, this happened" so if you put it at the beginning, they know they can get help from the start.

M: That makes sense

P: And how about you, after gone through this, are there any reamining questions, and if you were going to continue to apply for health care, do you have a clear next step?

P: I would be looking for the nest what do I do next. (reading) "sign in to start your application" and again you haven't even had them setup an account. You ask them for all this information in order to do the application, start your application, sign in to start your application. So why would you want them to start their application without signing in? Especially when a lot of this data is sensitive data.

M: Just to confirm, you said "why would you want them to start their application, without signing in?

P: Yeah, without signing in 

P: But where did you even tell them to create an account?

M: If you were new applying for health care, what do you do next?

P: Right, I'd be looking for the thing to make an account. Anywhere online it's going to sign in or make an account, so people have been conditioned to that. 

M: And what were thoughts around, and I heard you read it out loud, but what were your thoughts of start your application without signing in (link)?

P: It isn't secure

M: concerns about it not being secure, if you're not signed in cause if I could do it without signing in and I put my social security number and date of birth, how are you seeing it? At some point I still have to sign in and make the account.

M: Feel free to go through

P: (On ssn) Now I do like how after each page, so far that need help comes up, I think that's a good thing.

P: (on birth sex) Yeah you gotta ask that question I guess. 

M: Any thoughts around it?

P: No, everyone is entitled to whatever, regardless of. I'm not going to say I undertans it all, just think everyone should be treated fairly and equally.

M: Absolutely. 

P: (Phone number- Put it in with 1 in front and got error) Oh can't put the one in there ha I'm used to having the automatic (browser fill in)

M: that's good to see because I'm sure other people have that too. 

P: (moves through blue without question)

P: (on other insurance) yes, I do. (after selection) they want a lot of information that I don't know- medicare, tricare, I don't know what that is (name of policyholder). 

M: What's that?

P: I said, I have Tricare, and now it's saying name of the policyholder, oh that'd be me. (writes self deletes and inputs name)

P: I don't know the policy number, I'm going to make one up.

M: sure, just curious, if this was real would that be something that would be readily available or what would you do in this case?

P: Well it didn't used to ask you if you had health care, this is something they just started in the last two years because you have younger veterans that may work in other jobs and older veterans that may have social security and then you have medicare, and then retirees have tricare. So I guess that's why it asks.

M: And for you, you said you don't have that (policy number) right now, which is fine, you don't need to go find it, but I was just wondering, is that something that you feel you'd be able to find if this was real, or would you have to stop and go call someone or how would you find thius information?

P: I keep my tricare card in my wallet, and VA already had my information, and actually they don't bill tricare because it's the same system. I don't think they bill tricare, I know they bill medicare. I'm not sure about tricare. 

P: I like that.

M: What's that?

P: You can pick your preferred facility...I like that.

M: Can you tell me a little bit more why you like that?

P: because a lot of times you don't know what's available so I actually used my real city and state so I could see this facility is closer to me, this facility is closer to me. That makes it easier.

M: and before you hit that

P: I just hit that

M: It's ok, it's totally fine. No worries. Go ahead and keep going, have a look at this page.

P: One week

M: What's your thought around that?

P: Really? You make a decision on the application? What decision are they making?

M: What was your expectation as to what it was going to be?

P: I heard people say it takes months. (reading) So are you telling me you make a decision on my claim or are you making a decision on if you can accept my application?

M: And what is your thought? What is your guess?

P: Well if I'm joe stuff, and you're telling me you'll make a decision in one week, you're telling me that you're going to process my claim in one week.

M: anything else on this page? 

P: no

M: and what's your expectation on how you'll be contacted?

P: Phone, email, mail, regular mail- something to tell me

M: and what's your personal preference for receiving communication?

P: I like email.

M: Overall how was this experience that you just went through applying for health care?

P: It was ok, it was ok, it was actually ok, pretty good. 

M: Tell me about what made it ok? What made it good?

P: Well I guess because it was, you know what, all you're really doing is applying for benefits, this is not putting in your claim stuff. Which you're claiming, right?

M: Right

P: I guess because it was quick, I didn't have to go into any office to do it, it was straightforward, except for those couple things I said, it's pretty straightforward, it's pretty simple. and it's not time-consuming. 

M: Yeah I was going to ask you about your expectation on how long it would take versus how long it did?

P: Well think about it, we started it was about 10:29. So it's not even 11:00. So if you think, if I'm doing this and there's no issues and I'm not talking  to anyone that'd probably knock off 5-10 minutes and that to me makes a lot of sense. So I think it's good.

M: I have a question for you. There's a part of this that says, "you're getting a shortened experience" did you see that..excuse me "you're getting a shorter application" did you see that? and have any thoughts around it?

P: It said that if you're over 50% you filled out a shorter application, I guess because it will assume that if I was coming in and already had 50% rated, that I was only looking to add one or two things versus if I had to add more stuff. 

M: Did you have any questions. You explained it to me at 50% maybe they did need as much, but I just wondered if like you were about to tell your friend who was about to apply for health care, how would you talk about this in your own words?

P: I would just tell them to make sure to take their time, and make sure they had everything when they sat down, and make a copy of the phone numbers and things on here, just in case they do need to talk to someone.

M: That makes sense and how would you tell them about this shortened application that you just experienced?

P: I would tell them, based on my percentage, I didn't have fill out, I didn't have to finish the longer application so I don't know what's on it. But I would tell them, because I'm already in the system, they didn't have to need as much information from me, because they have most of this information. So they may need more information from you, that's why your application may be longer. 



_thank you and goodbye_
