# P13
**Self-disclose, 50% or greater disability rating, smartphone**

Please note: these are not verbatum notes, except where indicated by quotes

M= moderator

P= Participant 13

_recording accepted_

M: Do you currenly receive health care through the VA?

P: No I haven't set it up. I know I have it, but I kinda don't know how to set it up.

M: How did that come about, did you apply recently?

P: I've seen it on there. and I think they've sent me stuff before.

M: Do you remember when you got it? Was it when you were leaving the military?

P: I think it was when I was when I got my 100% disability

M: ok, got it. 

(technical difficulties and some of the beginning of intro page was not recorded)

M: What happens if you didn't have an account, but you still wanted to apply for health care.

P: If I didn't have an account?

M: Yep if you didn't have an account and still wanted to apply for health care?

P: I guess you can sign in to start your application and it would tell you if you needed to setup an account

M: For the purposes of today, we're not going to create an account or we're not going to sign into your account. We're actually going to do it without signing in. So under that blue button there's a link that says "start your application without signing in" you can click on that

P: Oh I didn't even see that. 

M: That's ok, very useful, that's why we're here

P: Yeah that'd be helpful if maybe that was darker, eyes go to "sign in to start your application" maybe don't read the whole thing. 

P: Maybe if it was darker or you'd be like oh "start your application without signing in" yeah I just saw the dark (button) with the white so I didn't even read below it. 

P: ok so go to that one

M: yes please

P: ok got it

M: Not sure why it took you to the bottom, but I did notice that. 

P: Yeah it took me to the end

M: Ok you can start filling this out as if it were your real one

P: (on screener reads) Continue to the application (button) ok

M: Feel free to keep going and let me know if anything stands out to you

P: ok

P: (on address page) So far it's pretty simple, so far all the little 

M: Thing are as you expect? or has there been anything unexpected so far?

P: No everything is as expected, it's straightforward.

P: and it's pretty easy to fill this out on your phone

M: yeah? Do you usually use youe phone to fill out things like this, or what do you usually use?

P: My phone

M: yeah? ok

P: Yeah very seldom, well just depends, if I'm not home, then yeah I'll use my smartphone, but if I'm home I'll occasionally use my laptop. but now with smartphones being smart, as long as you have internet service you're fine.

M: Would you mind pausing and showing me one thing (on miltary service but she selected receives compensation pay for a disability 50 or higher) (looking at browser) I wonder if we got kicked out of my test environment into the real one. I can't see it, it's blocked by that window, does it still say satging.

P: yep

M: it does. ok. 

(has user go back to compensation and try each selection in an attempt to trigger short form- the 2 other selections go to the correct next page, but not the 50% or higher into the short form. User then accidently refreshes and has to go through the whole things again)

(pick up on compensation question now for the second time)

M: (on blue alert) there we go. I don't want to take us too out of the scenario

P: (reading, didn't open) ok confirm

P: (reading) you are now on step 3 of 4. Are you eligible for medicaid? No I'm not that old yet. 

M: (on other insurance policy number) Feel free to make it up, but curious, is this something you'd ahve readily available? 

P: yeah, cause it's on my card, of course pull my purse out and get my card or put in my social. Cause with tricare it's based off of your DOD number or SSN, but they prefer you put the ID number because you know how your ssn can be compromised.

P: (reading green alert- You're filling out a shortened application) You're enrolling to get minimum essenital coverage, but if I already have insurance, do I need to press that?

M: Tell me what you think and what you'd do.

P: I wouldn't press it because I have other insurance so I know I don't need to press that, but I mean, it wouldn't hurt. haha

M: Am I capturing it right like, what's the difference?

P: Well it does say, learn more about minimum essential coverage (doesn't click ) I mean I know we all need to have it, but some people may not know.

M: yeah it's a good question.

P: Oh that's cool, they'll even call you to setup an appointment?

M: Oh yes, what was your thought?

P: I think that's pretty cool, you don't have to call someone, they'll call you and so you're not waiting around for an email or a text

M: and what's your preferred contact method?

P: Email or text, I know some people like call, but as long as it's someone I can understand, and they understand me, we're good.

M: (on review) before you submit, one thing I want to ask you is, upon pushing that submit button, tell me what you expect is going to happen.

P: I'm going to get qualified! They respond back with something like it went through, we'll followup in so many days.

M: Overall, minus the technical difficulties, overall how has this applying for health care been for you?

P: Oh this was simple and very easy to do, especially if you didn't have an account, the button below. My only suggestion is making that button darker? Have a background? so people know they can do it without creating an account. 

M: Great feedback

P: Kind of like here where it say back (button) and submit application (button) is dark. I really didn't see that line below it because it was like eh it wasn't like in bold or uppercase. So us as humans, that's what we, kind of like a red light, we respond to that.

M: Yeah and I heard you say, maybe once or twice, when you were going through the application, something about the short form, and I want to hear about that in your own words and if you were telling about to a friend, how would you explain to them?

P: I would explain to them that it's only a few questions and you're done,and you press submit application and they'll get in touch with you. There wasn't like a bunch of questions like you know, what your health is like or you know, where you have to go and look for information to fill it out. I think that's why people would get discourage if there was a lot of "we need to know this, we need to know this" no just straight to the point.

M: and after seeing what you saw today, does everybody gets the short form or some people get the short form?

P: I'd say 90%. 

M: Tell me more about that, why 90%? 

P: Because people are tech saavy, I know you have the older generation, but even them are starting to realize that everything is computerized and you have to do it online, but even if they had to do it, it's basic. Just put in your name, put in your ssn, press the next button.

M: Nest I have a couple of tasks. Stay on this page, try to do it on this page, but if you can't you can tell me that as well.

M: The first task is, say you got to this page and you realized that you put the wrong birth date, what do you do?

P: Press the plus sign next to Veteran information

M: O go ahead and do that, let's make a change

P: on the birth date?

M: yes please

P: and then put edit (changes it) update page

M: How was that?

P: Easy

M: Easy, ok. I'm going to give you one more task on this page. Let's say you put in the wrong compensation percentage information, what would do to change that, your VA disability compensation percentage.

P: First go to the benefits. Then go to where it says "go back to edit compensation" (click on link)

M: and what was your expectation? When you back to here was that what you expected it to do or not what you expected it to do?

P: I'm thinking

M: sorry

P: I was thinking it might pop up and you could just press a button, the same way I could edit my birth date, I thought it would show up right there and then select the button and update, this took me all the way back where it says continue and then you have to hit confirm again. and it runs you through the whole thing again.

M: Tell me a little bit more on what you're thinking on this?

P: I'm thinking...ok, like that can be a little confusing, like I get it, but other people might be like, why can't I just press it like my other information where I can just push edit and edit it. Why can't this be the same way?

M: and if this was you personally what eould you do?

P: I would change it, but I would wonder why I have to go through all this again

M: and if it was you do you think it would cause you to dropoff or would you still do it?

P: I would still do it, but someone who is older might get confused, like am I updating this all over again? Is it going to make a page of this? Like when I went to insurance information, I just clicked on it, I could just update page. This one says we're going to take you back in the form, but it doesn't say we're going to run through all 5 questions again and hit continue, continue.

M: If we have to do it this way, do you think there is anything else we could say here that would be helpful to prep you for having to do that?

P: IT does say we may need to ask you more questions (reading) I don't know. I'm sure there could be something, but I don't know what that would be like. We'll take you back in the form, you'll have the 5 more questions... I don't know

M: you talking aloud is great, I don't expect you to have the answers 

P: haha we're brainstorming

P: Yeah I don't know. Prepare yourself, you're going to go through the same 5 questions you just answered because you changed it to the correct

P: yep, yep sure. Yeah because you click edit and then you edit it, and then you have to push continue...again? and I confirm again and then it's on medicaid again and then inusrance again, all your health care. It's like I didn't wan to change all that.

M: I'm going to have you submit now

P: got it

M: take a look at this page and let me know if you have any questions/thoughts

P: (reading) well that was easy huh oh one week, ok.

M: what are you thinking there?

P: That's not long

M: ok

P: I mean some people expect it to be the next day, but you have to remember, you're not the only person in line. hahaha there's lots of Veterans out there and it gives you a 187 number to contact them if you don't hear back from them. And then you have the button for feedback where you can complain that it took me all the way back to...

M: Do you have any questions for me?

P: No that was pretty simple actually hmm 

M: Say more

P: It was easy, especially if it was going to be the first time you submitting it, you didn't have a login, that's pretty easy, I like it, and you can do it on your phone.

M: To leave you with accurate information, the full form is  online for to sign in or not, but this shortened application is not available to everyone yet.

P: What?! Why not?!

M: We're in the testing phase that's why we're here, but wanted to let you know so you don't tell my friends, but hopefully soon, thanks to you participating in this. 

P: Yeah I like this, it was easy

M: good, good

_thank you and goodbye_
