# P7
**Full, self-disclose as a task, computer, screenreader*

Please note: these are not verbatum notes, except where indicated by quotes

M= Moderator

P= Participant 7

S= Screen reader

T= Screen reader tech support

_recording accepted (started a little late)_

P: Back to step 1, it's back to step 1 again. Let's see if it's different. It landed on my social security. Then it goes to Continue (button) again.

M: Tell me what you're thinking here

P: Ok, when I saw it go back to page 1, I figured I must've made some sort of mistake or occassionally I'll skip past a field so I did a tab to see if it'd take me to the skipped field, well now it's bringing me to the date. That's correct. There's the back and continue, but every time I hit continue it seems to bring me back to another field on this screen. 

P: Now we're into location ok. (S=doesn't read label and participant has to ask what question is)

P: Ok it's still calling it step 1

P: It went right to female/male. I can go back (S doesn't read question). So I don't know what that's asking. I assume about me, if there's a heading in there. Sometimes the browsers and jaws don't let you go back and easily review the screen. Let me try something...

S: Visaulizing is unavailable when forms mode is active.

P: I just see female and male. I checked male.

P: I don't know why you have all of these on separate screens. Their may be a logical answer to that.

S: (straight to address did not read label)

P: There's a yes or no, but I can't read any of it. It's not reading any of the text around it.

M: Before I say anything what would you do if this was without us and you were here filling it out.

P: There's a number of things that I can try. and let's see if..

S: Virtualizing is unavailable when forms mode if active. Use virtual pc off...type message here

P: Jaws is supposed to visualize and bring the whole screen in, unfortunately there's a chatbox. So that doesn't tell me anything.

P: Let's see what else I can try.

S: OCR, started using omni page

P: Let's see what that tells me.

M: Oh it's bringing you back into zoom as opposed to your browser, right?

P: Yeah

M: I guess you wouldn't normally have to deal with us and the zoom.

P: haha that could be

M: So if we can go back to the form, that question is asking if your home address is the same as your mailing address, but I definitely want to look into why it didn't read it, right?

P: I assumed that, but it could've been something else.

M: Yeah well you wouldn't know.

M: Well now it read it. You know some of the VA surveys, I can't read the question until I guess at an answer.

P: When I hit continue, it said I didn't do it right and went back and that time it read me the question. 

M: Ok, let's look into why it isn't doing it the first time.

P: So what it's telling me is step 1 of 6 Veteran's information when it's first going to the next page. 

P: Email address

S: VA benefits. (cick) Why we ask for this information collapsed

P: Now this time it didn't read me the question and I was able to up arrow on the screen and it's reading the [question]

M: Would you mind if we pause? I want to ask you about the previous page (current compensation question)

P: ok

M: I was wondering what happened, you said it skipped some parts of it when you were first on it.

P: Some of the heading information. It tells me step 1 of 6, this one says something, but frequently what comes up is a field to enter or a yes/no checkbox without any information. The last screen it told me what the boxes were for. 

M: Would you mind if we go back one screen (current compensation question)?

P: Sure

M: Go through the page again, I just want to observe

P: This time is different, the first time and the second time. The first time it stopped on the checkboxes, this time it stopped on "current compensation" Seems consistent, if I go back twice, the second time it reads me what it skips the first time.

M: The first time it went straight to the checkboxes and the second time it read the question, is that right?

P:Yes

M: If you don't mind going through the selections so that I can observe that as well.

S: Reads

P: As far as I can tell, everything is read and completely understandable. And the first time through it did read me the checkboxes.

M: And you selected the one relevant to you.

P: (reading) Military service. More there than I would've thought (last branch of service). Now it just says "date" but I could back and read it, it says service start date, but the first time it just said date. I have to arrow up.

P: I'm assuming it means active duty not reserve time

P: Ok that's the problem I had in the beginning, having to go back up to read the fields to know what they're asking. It was not too much of a problem.

P: The way that jaws screenreader works, it only looks a certain distance from the entry field. They got to somehow, don't know exactly, I usually have mine set for nearby the entry field which is the furthest it'll look, and if there's too much distance or it's not labeled as the proper field, it just doesn't pick it up.

M: I'm noticing that. Thanks for pointing it out

M: (error on service start date about not being 15) I noticed on your birth date you put it on today's date as 2022. Now it's an error because you must have been 15 years old to be in the service. 

P: I didn't know that was a birth date, the first date I saw it asking for is date entered service.

M: Oh it's at the beginning. 

P: It must have skipped it

M: and I'm wondering if it didn't read the label and you put in today's date. (went back and changed birth date)

S: reading household page-financial disclosure question

P: It looks to me that since I have a service-connected disability, I don't have to do this. Do you want me to?

M: Ok and do it like you would, there's no wrong answer. 

P: I noticed this, it says "served in Vietnam" In the past it has always been "served in the Vietnam ERA" I guess they're making a distinction around that now. 

M: Any thoughts around that?

P: I don't know because I've always used Vietnam era, cause I wasn't in Vietnam, but a lot of the benefits VA was giving early on, if you served during that time you got a lot of the same benefits as people who served in Vietnam because you served during a wartime period. This looks like that's not the case anymore.

P: Is it safe to say no? Or do we need to say yes to get to different parts of the form?

M: It's ok to say no, you can go ahead as if you were really doing this.

S: (marriage question) Date combo box

P: (Medicare effective date) Oh I don't remember

M: That's ok, doesn't need to be exact. Curious, if this was your real application is that something that would be readily available?

P: Actually I would guess. It was sometime in 1985, it's hard to remember the exact date. I'd pick something late in 1985 and that would be close.

P: (on other insurance page) This raises a question, I have a Medicare Advantage plan through a private company. I think that's still considered Medicare.

M: But it leaves you with questions?

P: Right

M: Talk to me, what would you do?

P: I would probably say I don't have anything.

M: You don't have either one or?

P: I have Medicare. but i send my bills to the private company and they get reimbursed by medicare. They cover more than Medicare covers. Some places I go they want to see that and others they don't, but I would probably say no.

M: ok

S: date combo box (on the center or clinic field on VA facility page)

P: It said date when it went to that second field

M: Yeah I saw that, it's like it defaults to date, wth?

P: haha yeah it has done that once or twice before

M: Yeah we are definitely going to investigate that

S: Date combo box

P: I didn't know we had that many clinics. That great. (makes selection)

M: Did you find the one that you wanted to find?

P: Actually I don't use any of them, but I'm signed up for McClellan, but I use my local one at home because I'm 100 miles from a facility, 53 miles from the nearest clinic. So I have a nice local one in time, she sends all my prescriptions to the VA and if she needs to make a referral, she does that through the VA. Now some things like my annual dermatology and eye checkup, I go to Little Rock. Last time with my hearing aids they sent me to moundatin home and did a virtual evaluation which was...saved several hours of travel time.

P: but those two facilities that they put names on, probably would've been a good idea to put the cities on there.

M: Now we are on the review page, I want to pause and ask you a couple of questions before we go further.

P: ok

M: Overall, what was that overall experience like for applying for health care like?

P: uh actually it was fairly simple. A few of the problems were caused by my impatience.  Getting tired of long forms and kinda skip through. Not getting the information before the question was slowing down and a little frustrating. I wouldn't have had to repeat so much if it had been identified. It was most of the time, but not all of the time. The couple questions I had about now it's in Vietnam as opposed to Vietnam era, most people wouldn't make a difference, some of us it does. I just assumed it meant what it said, but it brought up a question. I don't know where you caught the error...I did not see where it cause my birth date and service date.

M: Ah it didn't read it, did it?

P: No, it may have if it took me back to do the same page again...actually we did go back and it didn't tell me.

P: and the fact it kept asking for date when it really wanted other information, that was at least 3 different times.

P: It was actually pretty painless, compared to other surveys I get through the VA. Every once in awhile they ask, "how was your performance today" and they're lengthy and it skips questions. It says "you skipped this question" I didn't skip this question, it never came up. Ether jaws or something in the website caused it to skip, never know. Fortunately it only asks once or twice a year. Used to be every 3-4 times when I went into the VA site they were first trying to get things approved.

P: I think the couple places where I wasn't sure what it was asking for or wasn't sure if i needed to provide my financial information or not, it looked like I didn't because I have service-connected. I finally have some- after 50 years they finally decided.

P: My biggest complain was it not reading the questions the first time on the page

P: And you probably don't have too many blind programmers to notice it.

M: That's why we're here

P: That why we're here

M: So I really appreciate you bearing with it.

P: Not a problem.

M: So we're on the review page, I'm going to give you a scenario is, you got your VA compensation rating raised, so now you are above 50%, you already filled out the application, but haven't submitted it, you're on this page (review) what would be your next step to change that?

P: I would go back to where it asks, but I'm not sure I'd recognize when I got there because a lot of times it stops on the back button so I'd have to go up on the page and read through it and see what page I'm on.

M: Oh yeah, and we experienced that when going back on the birth date.

P: So instead I'm going to have you take a peruse of this page, and see if on this page, there is something on this page where you can change that percentage directly.

S: Reads review collapsed page

P: I don't know if it'll be under Veterans information or VA benefits

S: Reads Veteran information open

P: Oh i missed that question "sex assigned at birth" - maybe it didn't say it like that.

S: Continues reading Veteran information open

P: Ok wasn't on that one. This is neat not to have to go back and back and back

S: Reads VA benefits open 

P: ok this is it

S: reads if you need to edit...

P: That's good (clicks on link)

P: "That made it easy to figure out where I need to be and get there."

(changes to 50%. or higher)

M: You made that change, what do expect to happen next?

P: Ideally I'd go back to that same place I was in the review page, I wouldn't be surprised if it took me to the next screen to do it over again. 

M: Thanks for setting the expectation, go ahead and continue.

P: (blue alert) ok this is reasonable, I didn't expect it, but it's reasonable (confirms and continues)

M: Any questions on that page?

P: Well it did say that depending on my answers, there may be more questions. and I was surprised when it didn't ask me those more questions. I guess it's getting there now. 

P: Looks like it is going to make me go through that again. Maybe there's more question at the end.

S: reads Do you want VA to contact you to schedule your first appointment? (then reads VA selected location)

P: Oh it's a question that I skipped. I'm not sure why it didn't fuss that I didn't select whether or not VA contact you. 

P: I like the way this review is setup. Well if I found a mistake, I didn't have to go back to the beginning, didn't have to hunt for it. It was willing to take me to the page, that's great. A lot of them don't do that. 

M: Can you speak on changing your VA compensation percentage? How was that?

P: I was pleasantly surprised when we got to the point where we need to change it, there was a link and a note that there might be more questions. When I changed it clicked continue, I didn't know where I was going to go. But it did take me to one more question page. Would have been a little nicer if I could've finished up that question and jumped to the review. Not that it was big problem because I wouldn't have found that other yes/no question about being contacted by VA to set up an appointment, but since that's not an essential question I would've liked to go back to the review page and looked at any other errors.

M: That makes sense, ok last question. So now say you have a mistake in your name, what would you do.

P: Well I'm on the review page, I think it's up there

P: That's how I can cheat with jaws, I can search for my last name

P: I missed that place of birth, it's getting tricky on me, reading things I never seen before.

M: Well that goes back to that problem of not reading questions. So that's on us.

P: haha

S: reads place of birth fields

P: I guess I thought was home, I thought since it was asking for personal information

P: and it just said date for the state

M: oh that's what I wanted to see, you edit something on the review page

P: That's what I expected the first time, but I guess percentage disability had to ask more questions so it didn't pop back to review

M: Yep you guessed it

P: I'm still on personal information. Oh maybe I am on the review page. First thought, is we're going through the information again. I could go up and look, but I'm guessing because of the submit button. (after completing the edit update)

P: It's one of those things where if you see it you know

M: Yeah but if it doesn't tell you...

P: Right. 

M: You can go ahead and submit.

P: Well I clicked it

(privacy policy check not read)

P: Print this page for your records, well least I figured out that something wasn't done (in regards to the privacy checkbox error)

M: Yeah talk to me about that. Was that performing a little differetly than you expected?

P: I think that was probably a personal problem, read it, saw statement about false information, but didn't see the privacy statement. I don't know how many people would have that problem. 

M: I was wondering- it gave an error but it didn't read that there was an error, right?

P: Correct

M: I think it's not reading the errors, at least on some of them.

S: Reading submission confirmation page

P: I was put out by one statement. If we need more information we'll ask by mail. but then it said you contact us by phone-that's great. 

P: Well mail takes forever to get here, but after that it said if you haven't heard from us in a week/10 days call us and gave aphone number so you don't have to wait on the mail. You have a method where you can followup yourself. That's kind of new and that's great.

M: Got it

P: I thought a week was fantastic, but I've had it approved the day I walked in, but that was with a blind services coordinator. 

M: Any other thoughts or comments on this page?

P: Nope, I think the biggest problem I had was not knowing what question I was supposed to be answering, and not being told sometimes when I made a mistake. Or answered something that wasn't possible like serving 60 years before I was born. 

P: For the most part, I'd say it's a vast improvement from what the VA was putting out a few years ago.

M: We have to keep moving in that direction

M: (Explains what was going on with screener)

M: any other thoughts or questions

P: Only other question I'd raise and we mentioned it is Other insurance. It could say "any other insurance other than Medicare Advantage" that would resolve that.



_thanks and closing_







