# Charles - 2020-06 Clipboard Questionnaire Discovery

#### Friday, June 26⋅11:15am – 12:15pm

### Amanda Key Takeaways

-   He does not experience any form entry or Nurse questions with the VA as they are lab visits and an annual Primary Care.
-   He/Caregiver understand the request from primary care visits that they send an email with link to fill out pre-visit questions 2-3 days before the visit.
-   He/Caregiver are tech savvy and do not have issues filling out pre-visit forms online as they do with their community providers (non-VA) but it would need to be incorporated into the visit as they feel its a waste of time otherwise.
	-   They use va.gov, myhealthevet, and Athena patient portal (local community dr.)
    -   Rx Refill on myhealthvet
    -   Print forms on eBennefits.
-   They are used to having to repeat health history to all his dr.
    

### Service Career

-   1960 basic training, Ft. L Missouri, National Guard
-   1961 -1962 Berlin Crisis training but never went.
-   Vietnam Vet but never went
    

### Veteran Current Experience

-   Dental Hygienist
-   Every few weeks go for blood work as he is on blood thinners
	-   Yesterday I had a visit. 
	-  Wait times - local dr. visits- waiting 15 mins. - for lab draw
	-   Nurse asked no questions
	-   Knew I had to wear a mask, put a band on his wrist. 
	-   Check In process- have an appt. Went into the facility and went straight to the lab.
    -   No forms or questions other than if he had an appt.
	-   Travel pay shut down, had to fill out a form and turn it into the front desk. Basic form for travel pay. Is this the kiosk that was down?
		-   100% disabled veteran so sounds like he is paid for his travel cost to get to the appt.
	   -   Information about himself- address, same thing they fill out on the machine.
	    -   Paper and certain things highlighted- travel logistics, name, ssn, address.
    

    
>  “Some time ago..years ago..I had to fill out forms telling about my family hx, any of my medical things done. I’ve been in the system with the VA since 89”
 “I don’t know the date I filled out information because they have it in the system”


-   Appt. annual with primary care at the VA and any other appointments they generally contact me or cancel an appointment.
	-   Call him for dental appointments cancelation.
 
-   Prepare for the visit- Drs in town through tri-west- community care dr.  - Mission -Tri West P3 Program (he is able to use a private dr.)
	-  Primary Care and Cardiology and Chiro are local and paid for by the VA via referral- VA has you on X meds and we will send new RX through the VA
	-   When I go to the local dr.- I provide Last 3 SSN and name and they are able to pull me up and see my dr. and chiro in town.
	-   Chiro this morning. 
-   Caregiver started the session due to his hearing
    -   Local specialist- general information filled out and list of meds, surgeries, complaints that he is there for.
    -   VA same as local referrals get the info from the dr.

> “He’s been seeing the local dr.s so long he doesn’t have to fill anything out”

> “Assume the information they put in the chart- to be honest we never really gave it much thought where the information goes”
-   Link to athena patient portal electronic forms sent:
> 
> “send us an email 2 weeks before to check in online to say why he is there, update any meds, specific things he is dealing with, what he wants dr. to address during the visit, symptoms. ….And then you go in there you can tell by the Dr. questions and reactions that he never saw the information, so we wonder why we are going to the trouble of why we are filling this out”
 “Waist of time” “simple straight-forward”... but doesn’t seem to be accomplishing anything”

-   How often do you go to the MyHealthVet or Va.gov
    -   Weekly
    -   Ebenefits
	    -   Printout forms he needs for disabilities
	    -   Need for going on military base to show he is 100% Veteran
	    -   Checking if anything has been added to disabilities.
    -   And order his Rx on myHealthevet.
    

### Veteran General Statements

-   Would you fill out the forms ahead of time : 

> “We could do that usually he just fill things by hand and was more adept at doing that than online.”

> “Repeat things to them is standard they have to repeat and ask same questions time and time again...do you not have anything your looking at about me...we are just use to it”
    
-   Don’t have a difference in the meaning of questionnaires and forms.
    

### Amanda Observations

-   They are tech savvy and do not have issues filling out pre-visit forms online as they do with their community providers (non-VA) but it would need to be incorporated into the visit as they feel its a waste of time otherwise.
   
