# p15 - 2020-06 Clipboard Questionnaire Discovery

#### Friday, June 26⋅12:30 – 1:30pm

### Amanda Key Takeaways

-   Finds filling out paper forms easy today and would use a digital option that asked 
> “Since your last visit is there anything new?”
-   1 week notice for forms so he could fill out the day before

    
### Service Career

-   Army 1967- Vietnam 1968 and return 69
-   Got out of Army in 70
    

### Veteran Current Experience

 -   Has VA appt. Few years 3-5 times per year
	-   PTSD Therapy
    -   Shots and Lab (blood draw)
	    -   Check in to cancel and reschedule an appt thought was too soon to leave the house
	-   In person visit - Occupational therapist for back problem- Jan/Feb
	    -   Stayed home after that due to COVID
	    -   Kiosk - Check in
		   
		>  -  “was easy you put your card into the device you check in and wait a few minutes and they call you”

	   -   Try to get there early to get a parking spot-
	    -   Go into the lobby and swipe your card and prompts you for info
	    -   Sit down and wait - 10AM appt you will get in at 10:10
	    -   Ask what's going on verbal discussion of what his symptoms
	    -   Ask mobility questions
    -   Primary Care at least twice a year for routine checkup
	    -   Friendly -visits are 15 minutes
		> -   “She has a script to follow”
		>	-   “do you need any medication refills?”
		>	-   “do you have anything new to add?”

    -   Went to the ER due to pain and recommend him to go to get therapy
	    -   why there, problem, what was I seeking.
    -   Non VA providers Standard form - have you had these symptoms, safe environment, and they are on paper- does have to answer each time
	    -   Takes 10 minutes done them so often you can just run through them
	    -   Yes or no check box answers
	    -   Done after check-in
	    -   A dozen more health question other than the first papers
 -   Does feel he has to share the same information more than once to other Drs
	    -   CNP appointments- to upgrade your disability rating. Does have to answer same questions
		-   Forms are similar than the VA
	    -   Free med and dental from from private employer


> -  “A little redundant as I’ve done them so much, but Im sure its necessary”
> 
> -   “He tries to let both systems know what Im doing so they have the information.”

 - What he thinks happens to his information -They put it in my health record cause you can view in Myhealthevet.
	 -    He knows he can see notes from recent visits in the site.
	 -    MyHealtheVet- you can check appt. History and if they know you have an appt. With certain party. When you get there they give you the for and if they had it on the screen you it would save me 10 minutes and multiply that by 10 people.- Time and motion studies.    
-   Prep for visit - Check verify appt. Who with and what time so I can plan on getting there are the right time
    -   I get a letter reminder in the mail with address.
	-   I’ll call if I don't know where to go  
	-   The location and name of the specialty clinic are not easy to understand where he is supposed to go.
    

### Veteran General Statements

-   Share information- when they send confirm letter
-   He would fill out the forms digital- desktop and phone.
-   If they had a link and prompt these questions ahead of time.
-   He wants notified 1-2 weeks just in case he needs to cancel. On my healthevet app.
-   1 week notice for forms so he could fill out the day before
-   Primary care and Specialty forms seem the same.
-   Forms information digitally he would fill out it would go to his medical history in association to his visits.
-   Differences in screener- friendly get to the point and speedy - thinks this is a person.  
> -   “Since your last visit is there anything new?”

    

  

