# p16 - 2020-06 Clipboard Questionnaire Discovery

# Friday, June 26⋅1:45 – 2:45pm

### Amanda Key Takeaways

-   Would fill out digital forms digitally.
-   Before the appt
-   Fill out on laptop
> “The information is read over shortly after I give it to them and put
> on file.” VA provider use it to adjust their services”

-   Nothing different would happen if digitally other than longevity and wouldn’t get lost.
    -   Digital forms would be the easiest to do.
    -   quicker, won’t feel pressured to do it right then, and come back to it. Opportunity to change answers if something changed before the visit.
	    -   When you do it at the appt you fill it out with answers at that moment
    -   So we could be more thorough.
    

### Service Career
-   2012-2016 Signal Analyst
    
### Veteran Current Experience
-   3-4 times
-   She is a New Veteran
	-   Clipboard for getting ID
		-   Waiting an hour an half
		-   Picture and filled out clipboard
		    -   Mental health - Questionnaire on a tablet.
-   Primary care
    -   Asked for ID, then sit in waiting room
    -   Doesn’t recall filling anything out
    -   Saw a nurse first then the primary care dr.
	    -   Asked questions on the computer
		    -   Health history, idea who she was, and problems she is having, disability ratings.
	    -   Paperwork there was fine. I'm only Frustrated /overwhelmed with the amount of papers or specific or hard to answer.
	    -   Repeating- mental health gets asked by every single provider
	    -   All health information and included mental health- physical
		-   No post appt. screeners
 -   Mental health
    -   Check in with person as she didn’t have her ID yet
    -   Waited for 5 minutes before seeing dr.
    -   Gave clipboard with expecting from the visits, how feeling, health questions.
 -   She doesn't have non-va provider within last year
 -   Technology is a difference at VA medical center
 -   Physical health, allergies, coughs, pregnant are questions they typically ask
 -   Uses both myhealthevet and va.gov to look up- uses laptop.
    

### Veteran General Statements

-   Would fill out digital forms digitally.
-   Before the appt
-   Fill out on laptop.

> “The information is read over shortly after I give it to them and put
> on file.” VA provider use it to adjust their services”

-   Nothing different would happen if digitally other than longevity and wouldn’t get lost.
    -   Digital forms would be the easiest to do.
    -   MyhealtheVet where we could have a diary health feeling this way right now, if appt. Is a month right now and log it on site. Then the drs could see it right then.
    -   quicker , won’t feel pressured to do it right then and come back to it. Opportunity to change answers if something changed.
    -   When you do it at the app. As you fill it out with answers at that moment
    -   So we could be more thorough.
    
-   Form - age, sex, address - basic who you are
-   Questionnaire is trying to see how you're feeling
-   Screener- trying to see what you need and where you fit in if having mental/gastro problems and filter you for where you should go.
-   Rating -4 how I feel about it as I don’t like doing paperwork
-   Rating 5 are good questions- really do try to figure out what whats going on with you.
-   Overall experience was positive with VA providers and pleasant experience.
    

  

