# p17 - 2020-06 Clipboard Questionnaire Discovery

# Friday, June 26⋅3:00 – 4:00pm

### Amanda Key Takeaways
- Prepare- complex health issues 1 pager front and back
 > “Certain areas I need to talk about - jotted notes down as I have memory issues and I don't want to forget any”
- VA providers - No forms, No post visit surveys or questionnaires.
- Why not send via text messages with appt. Reminder with a link to the questions as that would take care of the memory problems. And not have to worry about remembering to bring the paper back at a future date

> “Its unusual that VA doesn’t hand me a clipboard or virtual clipboard to go into my dr. with”
> 
> “Frankly it would speed things up as it won't take provider time to do all of that”

-   Anytime you send me a link would be fine. …relevance - if asking me and appt. Is 10 days from now and answers might not be applicable. For how far in advance
    
-   Other providers- frustrating you have to go fill out a large stack of forms “form fatigue sets in”

> “If patients are being asked to provide the information then it should be used. …and becomes the basis for the discussion with the provider.”

### Service Career
-   Army 86    
-   6 tours
    

### Veteran Current Experience

-   Typical Primary Care Annually
-   Specialist Annually
    -   Mental Health- 2-4 weeks
	    -   Always asks scale questions anxiety, depression, suicide. Its verbally and she is putting it in the computer
	    -   Had a previous provider that would fill out on paper
    -   Dental semi annually
    -   Procedures 
    -   Eye Annually
    -   Primary Care this week
    -   Community Care in several years
    -   Check in - received information on phone typed here - didn't work so we will let you know when to come in.
	    -   Did covid screening outside before entering
	    -   Waited outside for appointments
 -   Normal Visits
	 -   Go into waiting room - machines to scan ID card to check in and wait to be called. - sometimes it asks for updated insurance seems to need to be reset
	  -   No health questions before a visit
-   Prepare- complex health issues 1 pager front and back . list conditions, brief history, age, weight, height, demographic. All the things you might get asked
	-   Specialty things being followed up on and list the upcoming appts or test results
    -   List Rx
    -  I always bring a notepad during visit.

> “Certain areas I need to talk about - jotted notes down as I have memory issues and I don't want to forget any”


-   Primary Care there was no check in telemedicine.
    -   Talked through new issues and made referrals
 -   I really like the text message that reminds me of appointments.
	   -   Don’t always list real clearly what they are texting about
 -   No post visit surveys or questionnaires.
 -   Other providers - No forms
    
 
### Veteran General Statements

-   Sure I would fill it out questionnaires before the visit
    -   Bring the form with them as it paper might forget it
-   Why not send via text messages with appt. Reminder with a link to the questions as that would take care of the memory problems. And not have to worry about remembering to bring the paper back at a future date
-   When I am checking in.
-   Handed a clipboard in the check in at a private healthcare- symptoms health info up to date, about the visit to discuss. 

> “Its unusual that VA doesn’t hand me a clipboard or virtual clipboard to go into my dr. with”
> 
> “Frankly it would speed things up as it won't take provider time to do all of that”
  
-   Anytime you send me a link would be fine. ...relevance - if asking me and appt. Is 10 days from now and answers might not be applicable. For how far in advance   
-   Other providers- frustrating you have to go fill out a large stack of forms “form fatigue sets in”
	-   Questionnaire - what are your symptoms today
    -   Chiropractic Care- form drawing a human body instructed to show where pain is and where bothering me. Dr. did look at them.
    -   Survey questions at the kiosk- was helpful
    -   Symptom based or Administrative based
    -   Rx filing out can get exhausting which is why he created his form.
    -   Uses MyHealtheVet in secure messaging like chat
	    -   “15 year old technology” be better if it was more speedy.
	    -   Its not like an app where it pops up when you have a notification
	    -   Checking labs and knows he can get the documents but hard to navigate and search
	    -   Upcoming Appts.- "its broken” it lists all the appts. Seems to be sorted incorrectly. Not all the info he wants. He likes the emails he gets and text messages
	    -   I use Rx- very old tech - when it expires no simple way to request a refill online.
    
-   Private not VA
    -   Chiro- he looks at the record
    -   Other times he fill out the clipboard and they glance at it
    -   Others not even sure they see it based on the questions they ask.

>    “If patients are being asked to provide the information then it should be used. ...and becomes the basis for the discussion with the provider.”

-   If it was happening at VA- I would want them to know to answer thoroughly and accurately. Take the time cause it will be used in your appt.
-   Screener is when they are ask questions like the covid questions.     
-   Questionnaire - in writing and reading it to me- yes/no multiple choice
-   Form- could be a questionnaire- and could be a body diagram.
-   Forms should be clear with chronic vs new symptoms.
-   Rating 3 in the middle as some are useful (chiro - I would give 5 as they are used)
-   Others are 1 as 6 pages of forms and are very frustrating.
	-   If they get along like that and I'm not going to be candid and cursory answers as I don’t feel like its relevant
	-   The dr. should decide if it's relevant. Don't’ do a 1 size fits all for every time I come into the VA. Could be seeing the same questions in the same day so be smart and know I just answered it as up to date.
