

# P2 - 2020-06 Clipboard Questionnaire Discovery

# Monday, June 22⋅1:45 – 2:45pm

### Amanda Key Takeaways

-   New patient questionnaire is the term he used to refer to workflow
-   Would want to fill out on laptop as it hard to answer easily on phone “ie. fat finger the wrong answers” 
-   Would want to fill out 2-3 days ahead of time so Don’t have to be there 30 min before to
-   Expects the questionnaire to be in the MyHealtheVet workflow. Ie. similar to her experience with the community care providers.
    

### Veteran Current Experience

-   Do not use VA facilities so will focus as a Cargiver for her son    
-   Son uses VA healthcare
	-   Alan her son - spinal cord - every 3 months.    
	-   Annual exam
    -   Inpatient Questionnaire - admission nurse does the questions falls risk general admin (Falls etc) Discharge planning	 
	-   Pleasant to fill out forms- its social/personal to catch up from last year
-   Dec 2019- challenging due to logistics of her son and medications
	-   Do not fill out any forms before the visit
    -   No questions asked- other than Consent forms (digital on her pad)risks of injections related to the procedure.
    -   2 hour drive to the facility, meals.

Community Care

-   All on line and uses questionnaires as the term
	-   Family history
    -   Medical issues
    -   Copies of medical records
    -   Medications
    -   Diet
    -   Desired appt days and times
-   Appt. email- directed to patient portal and a day or two they get a reminder for appt. And they check in online So they don't have to do insurance and address and ID etc. and covid questions
	-   You can uses Smartphone, laptop, ipad with the Baylor Scott and White App to access his medical records
-   Completing forms ahead of time 

> “that makes it so much easier. Not having to handover IDs ...its
> contactless which is a blessing at this time”
-   What happens to your data when you fill it out online forms
    -  Medical chart is created and is ready for the nurse to review and to summarize for the dr.
    -  Doesn’t want the Nurse and Dr. to have to locate a physical medical record


### Veteran General Statements

-   Laptop is preferred choice to ensure doesn’t key it in wrong
-   Preference 2-3 days before appt. Don’t have to be there 30 min before to fill out forms  
-   Appts are scheduled 3 months ahead of time.    
-   Screener or questionnaire is the same
-   Form is a handout.
-   New patient questionnaire is term for workflow
-   5 rating for filling out online.
    

  

### Amanda Observations

-   VA facilities are not asking current health history ie. clipboard for followup procedures- therefore she didn’t have experience answering.
