# P5 - 2020-06 Clipboard Questionnaire Discovery

#### Jun 23, 2020 11:00 AM Eastern Time (US and Canada)

### Amanda Key Takeaways

-   Health related forms is the term he used to refer to workflow
-   Would want to fill out on the laptop at home as some of the medications are hard to spell if he doesn't have it in front of him    
-   Would want to fill out 2-3 days ahead of time 
-   Expects the questionnaire to be in the MyHealtheVet workflow.
-  Doesn't experience any form documentation today and last time was ~10 years ago when he first saw his primary care dr.
-   Would want to pre-populate from previous answers
-   Preference of notification- email or text would be good to fill out.
-  Expects the questionnaire to be in the MyHealtheVet workflow- but authentication is a major barrier for most users in portal adoption.
	- This is a perfect use case for our unauthenticated workflow or if a way to launch authenticated forms pulling in data without MyHealtheVet authorization. 
	-  Potentially we would have the same barrier as we need to verify they are who they are before showing medical information.  
 -   Lots of hurry up and wait diabetic- fasting- check in could help them

  
 **Service History**
 - Army twice - head injury so went back and then foot injury then medically discharged

### Veteran Current Experience

-   Every 6 months- diabetes blood check, annual physical, VA is primary medical  
-   Feb - routine blood work was last visit.
-   Asked if left country/fever - used kiosk where you put your ID in
-   Kiosk-like for check in not for checkout as he has questions or change dates for appts.
-   Nurse asks about social history- suicide and depressed
	-   10 questions
    -   Don’t know what they are there for the questions so not always answer honestly. Trying to see if they are mentally stable- PTSD maybe

-   Make appts 6 months out- they send a post card in the mail that there is a Dr. appt coming up
-   Get a week later a survey from VA email- yes he fills out.
	-   5 minutes to fill out- Good as if he has feedback he can put it in.
-   No other forms he has had to fill out
-   Specialist don’t ask anything
	-   Cancer, Orthopedics
    -   No forms to fill out.
    -    Focused on areas of concern and history for why seeing the specialist.
-   Hasn’t visited any non-VA providers    
-   MyHealtheVet - keep trying to get on it to activate it and verify it. So he can’t get on for tele-health visit.
	-   MyHealtheVet - authentication- if easier way cause you have to go in.
	-   Use MHV to fill out the forms and if he had a problem he could use the video so not have to go in.
	-   Rx Refill it would be nice to request online vs. calling.
-   Family History- all the health related questions- Primary Care Dr. for 10 years so hasn’t had to refill out and they are not asking it again
	-   Use it for establish pre-existing health concerns    
	-   When he first filled it out on a clipboard form     

> "Digital would be convenient to fill out now so you don’t have to write
> out"

-   I can fill out on computer - Medications can’t spell the name so if at home he could look at the bottle.

> “I’d like an email before an appointment so I could do it at home and I
> don't have to scramble”.
> 
> "I'll do anything to speed up the process so I won't be at the VA all
> day"

-   2-3 days before the appt. To get the digital form to fill out.

-   Would want to pre-populate from previous answers
    
-   Preference of notification- email or text would be good to fill out.
     

### Amanda Observations

-   Lots of hurry up and wait diabetic- fasting- check in could help them
- - Positive experience with email and survey sent out post visit 
- Expects the questionnaire to be in the MyHealtheVet workflow- but authentication is a major barrier for most users in portal adoption.
	- This is a perfect use case for our unauthenticated workflow or if a way to launch authenticated forms pulling in data without MyHealtheVet authorization. 
	-  Potentially we would have the same barrier as we need to verify they are who they are before showing medical information.  
