# p8 - 2020-06 Clipboard Questionnaire Discovery

#### Jun 23, 2020 02:45 PM Eastern Time

### Amanda Key Takeaways

-   Would NOT want to fill out ahead of time as he wants the face to face personal experience
    
	-   However, he asked to make the experience better if the Dr.s had a “face sheet” of important information for the visit    
	-   To ensure his Med list was up to date and the “important” information he wanted to discuss was on the face sheet he would see value in completing ahead of time
	-   Doesn’t use MyHealtheVet due to not getting access
-   2 Primary Care Physicians
	-   Civilian- this is his Dr. that is actually treating his health conditions
	-   VA- Rotating Interns- are used to keep benefits and free Rx    
-   Doesn’t remember having been sent any forms to fill out at VA.
	-   Last time had to fill out a paper form “It's been a long time”
-   While he acknowledges he doesn’t want to use digital tools, his experience in the past with PCP and Kiosk show that he does find them easy to use and pleasant experiences.
    

### Service Career

-   ### Army 20 years, Vietnam Ranger Unit- injury, Infantry
-  After 13 years - due to injury “Cartographer”?
- Service Dog
    

### Veteran Current Experience

-   Last appt. was this past Friday
-   Primary Care - New Interns change 6 months. Reviewed Meds. This is the annual PCP  
	-   First Available back in January so had to wait until May for appt.   
	-   Partially because the virus was canceled. 
	-  No forms to fill out before the visit   
	-   Reason for visit
		- Medication refill    
		- You must have a primary care physician for long term care       
-   Nurse - weight, vitals, answers to most of her questions were on the computer then he waited for the Dr.
-   General background psycho/social intake. 
	- Never have answered these before.
    -   Nurse used computer
    -   Doesn’t prepare for visits
    -   He did write down the meds before the visit
	    -  So he could have Meds through the VA are free
    

-   Specialty Care - VA 6-8 times per year
	-   Doesn’t recall filling out any forms before the Specialty Visits as the clinicians documented in the computer
	-   Dental- very few questions
    -   Hearing aid- specific hearing questions how loss of hearing and if worsen
    -   Several with Phyc unit- service dog PTSD- normal how meds, or are you doing. Dr was Intern.
    -   He is not bothered by the questions
    -  3 average score for use to answer questions multiple times.
    -   Frequently has to answer questions multiple times- this doesn’t bother him he has to repeat
	    -   Basics, emergency contact,
    -   Last time had to fill out a paper form “Its been a long time”    
-   Non- VA Providers
    -   Civilian PCP- provided most of care and referrals
	    -   Pain clinic trying to get into- doesn't want to do that through the VA due to trust issues and “competence”
	    -   Been seeing the same Dr. for 20 years so “he knows me”
    -   Uses Choice program
    -   Cataract surgery


### Vereran General Statements

-   Wants to know what happens with this information

>  “System itself really sucks” “the Providers are pretty darn good”

-   Trying to get an appt. 4 months is too long when you need something
> “Not responsive at all”

-   Questions and answers go when they put into the computer 

> “Thinks they fall in to a big black hole and never to be seen again”

-   Wouldn't want to answer the questions ahead of time
-   Computers - I don’t like computers 

> “I’m an antique”
-   Doesn’t use MyHealtheVet and hasn't been able to get into it   
-   He does use the kiosk and likes it.  
-   He likes the survey from a civilian doctor and fills it out on a website and fills out on his phone. They send him a link. 
	-    Easy, simple and straightforward - well thought out.
-   He would use his mobile phone to check in - he’s phone is getting old so it's hard to use.  
-  Didn’t like the telehealth with civilian providers and didn’t like it as he likes to be face to face.
 
**Improvements/Suggestions**  
-   If they had a face sheet with the basic information on it and they reviewed that and the repetitive information,
-   Reason for the appointment - Problems with medication and see what to switch to or annual visit.
    

### Amanda Observations

-   Not tech savvy and will likely not use digital tools unless it was required.
-   In saying this, he has used in the past and didn’t have trouble and liked the experience.
-   Dental pre-visit forms is a scope consideration
