


# Chris - Time: Jun 22, 2020 10:00

### Observer Key Takeaways

-   Intake is the term he used to refer to workflow, however when asked said Triage.
-   Would want to fill out only information that has changed or current status, ie pain
-   Would want to fill out on mobile device
-   Would want to fill out 1-2 days ahead of time
-   Doesn’t have an issue with the current process of Nurse filling out the information. Ie Neutral
	-   just needs to be easier for dr. to see in chart and cross encounters (this is not our project)
-   Believes if we do this project his wait time would be reduced- which was one of 3 of his only complaints in current workflow
	-   Ie. wait time to see a dr. 2 horus and get to see them for 10 minutes
    -   Information not crossing from dr. to dr.
    -   Some forms have words that are not understood- need to ensure they are in non clinical language.
    

### Veteran Current Experience

-   Phone visit - just called no check in process 
-   Last Inperson Primary Care visit
    -   Doesn’t prepare as they have everything
    -   Checkin; Scan ID - checkin- and wait.
	    -   Take vitals
	    -   Ask a couple of questions
	    -   Wait for a Dr.
	-   Hour wait time noon before they saw a dr.
	    -   9:45 went to the desk handed ID they scanned to check in for 10am appt.
	    -   Front desk printed a lab copy and gave it to veteran and then told him to wait in the waiting room for Dr.
	   -   Nurse calls Veteran back to asked intake questions and take vitals, then sends veteran back to waiting room
		    -   Nurse documented the the form questions
		    -   Social History - Safe at home, commit home, smoke Falls, pain
    -   Wait for the Dr. was too long 2 hours - new Dr. - happy with the dr.
		-   30 mins in her office- typically appts are 10-15 mins with the dr.

-   Last Specialty Appts
	-   Specialist don't have any of the Primary care Dr. information (9-10 visits within the last year)
	-   Types of Specialists he has seen- Pain, Neuro
	    -   Neuro- has very in depth questions Physical History (wording was hard to understand)- paper
	-   5-10 min
	-   No not VA providers
	-   Dr. Doesn’t know why they seem to miss things
		-   His theory why they don’t know his primary care information is that they either don’t put it in the medical record or they don’t look for it

-   What things he thinks is good for him to enter each visit
	-   What other drs. have said to him
	-   Pain - what has changed since last time or current condition

-   Walkin appt VA-. Had to fill out forms
	-   Name, why there, same standard questions
	-   5 minutes to fill out Paper form
    

### Veteran General Statements
-   No difference what is on a screener, questionnaire, forms   
> “I really don't like phone appts, ...examining medically you should be
> able to look at them"

-   Usually uses his phone for MyHealtheVet - Samsung device    
-   Nurse puts the form documentation in the computer but the Dr.’s don't see them across encounters
-   Referring Dr’s should share information for the next.  

> “So I don’t have to go through it over and over and over again”

### Veteran Ideal Workflow or Improvement Areas

-   Would prefer - on Phone or Go on MyHealthevet fill out before so you can just go check in and go.
 > “The way I do everything is MyHealtheVet” “much easier that way”
-   When to fill out form- day or two or on the way to the appt.
-  My information should go into my file - medical record
-  Help people understand terms on the forms :   

> “allot of big words and phrases that some people might not understand”

-   At least 2 years since he had to fill anything out. Name and social History, condition history.
-   How feel about filling out the questions- Neutral - basically fill out name and a few checkboxes.

 > “I would do them ahead of time so the appts can be on time. I think if
> the information is already there and I fill it out a day or two ahead,
> then the dr. would have it right there and maybe they wouldn't run
> behind all the time….they could see the information and know what to
> focus on.”

### Observations
-   He said Intake multiple times
    -   Also Questionnaires
-   When asked what he would call the workflow he stated Triage- is the name he thinks of- but never called it that during the session. Maybe cause the clinicians don't’ call it that or Triage is a military term in the field for “triaging wounded patients”
-   He is not filling out too many forms because the Dr.s /nursing are orallying asking the questions and documenting
