# Health Apartment Team Meeting 04/14/2022

## Attendees

- Tracey Mulrooney
- Lauryl Zenobi
- Meg Peters
- Christopher Froehlich
- Lauren Alexanderson
- Patrick Vinograd
- Megan Graham

## Notes

- Christopher
	- Tooling code pieces near complete
	- Template piece not yet started; hoping this will be smooth as it's largely built
	- Documentation
	- Plain vanilla list of steps that a user can follow manually if an automated tool doesn't work as intended
	- Anticipate tooling complete end of this week
	- Documentation early next week
	- Next Thu-Fri testing
	- Tasks and estimates for MHV team to be done so it can be handed off to Teresa or someone to review 
- Tracey
	- Out next Thu to the following Wed
	- Starting next Tue for the next four months, MoStudio will help us with research on the Authenticated Experience and where it will live or be.  Will let us know how we will work together.
	- Lauryl - Looking at the road map for May, there was something about Unauth there.  Something to consider if that will be taken off our road map.  
	- We don't know if there will be an Unauth "Apartment" yet.
	- Laurel suggested we could dig into copay and travel pay and some of the other pages we haven't researched yet.
	- We don't yet know how the Hub will happen
	- PI planning will be around mid-May at this point
	- It probably makes sense to do team road mapping after.
	- We could see if there's anything we can do to help By Light with Secure Messaging
- Wayfinding between Hub and Apartment will be up for grabs
- Patrick
	- Update on scaffolding and API for PI6 for MHV to take over
- Lauryl
	- She and Megan met today to review convo guide; updates to research plan and should be able to submit request for recruiting next week
- Meg
	- They decided to minimally iterate on the placement of the search link 
- Marci
	- Drafting a diagram of how we can break this initiative into epics to help manage the work in ZenHub
  - Meg suggested Marci talk to Jeff Roof (AdHoc) to see how he's been managing work - working in GH and coordinating with a Confluence team
  - Marci will create a team retro board and we can meet later to discuss.

## Action Items

- [All] Be thinking about what we can work on in lieu of Unauth research
- [Christopher] Complete tooling, template, documentation, testing, tasks and estimates
- [Tracey] Hand off tasks and estimates to Teresa once complete
- [Marci] Create and share out retro board to get input on what's working, what could be improved
- [Megan & Lauryl] Finish convo guide & research plan
- [All] After Marci sends out link to retro board, please add your thoughts

## Zoom Chat Notes

Meg Peters to Everyone (2:04 PM)<br/>
Oddly MHV has not moved the invites for PI planning. It‚Äôs still on the calendar for next week.<br/>
Lauren Alexanderson to Everyone (2:08 PM)<br/>
No worries- it‚Äôll get pulled down l=no later than an hour into the start of the old PI planning meeting :)<br/>
Lauryl Zenobi to Everyone (2:09 PM)<br/>
we could dig into copay and travel pay and some of the other pages we haven't researched yet<br/>
Lauren Alexanderson to Everyone (2:09 PM)<br/>
That‚Äôs a good idea.<br/>
Meg Peters to Everyone (2:09 PM)<br/>
üëçüèª<br/>
Lauryl Zenobi to Everyone (2:10 PM)<br/>
MHV coordinator research too. I think we can come up with some good ideas. Might free us up to do any discovery work we need to do rather than usability, too
Lauren Alexanderson to Everyone (2:10 PM)<br/>
Yup<br/>
Love mhv coordinator research<br/>
Meg Peters to Everyone (2:12 PM)<br/>
We will still represent the manage tasks in the APT ‚Äî even if they are represented in the Health Care hub. The question is how much the ‚Äúmanage‚Äù tasks are represented in the HC hub and whether the unauth is in the APT.
Yep, we‚Äôll think through it.<br/>
Lauren Alexanderson to Everyone (2:25 PM)<br/>
I apologize about the 1010 issue too and for stealing christopher<br/>
awesome!<br/>
Did the pdf of the last readout move?<br/>
https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/blob/master/products[‚Ä¶]ability/MHV%20to%20VA.gov%20Round%201%20Usability%20Readout.pdf<br/>
Lauryl Zenobi to Everyone (2:28 PM)<br/>
https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/blob/master/products/health-care/digital-health-modernization/research/Round1_Usability/MHV%20to%20VA.gov%20Round%201%20Usability%20Readout%20(1).pdf
Lauryl Zenobi to Everyone (2:28 PM)<br/>
most recent version ^ after team feedback<br/>
Lauren Alexanderson to Everyone (2:28 PM)<br/>
Thank you!<br/>
Thanks Marci!<br/>
