# 2022-04-25 Team Meeting

## Attendees

- Meg Peters
- Lauryl Zenobi
- Patrick Vinograd
- Jonathan Nelson
- Megan Graham

 ## Notes

### Meg update on Mo Studio's research
- When the mockups were initially done, it was assumed that ALL health would be in one place.  Recently they thought that maybe they should check that out, so MoStudio is going to do some research to that end.
- The outcome of this may impact the IA, but not necessarily the mockups.
- During this time when they were marching forward, the healthcare hub folks were cleaning & culling the healthcare hub 
- Goal is to get agreement from OCTO on how to organize the UX for learn & apply and manage on va.gov, how the unauth and auth experiences will flow for learn & apply and anage, where the Health Apartment will live on VA.gov
- Health Apartment will focus on managing health care The auth experience will include Veterans who have health care, as well as Veterans

- The UX we are working on will focus on managing health care.  We want to include Veterans who have health care as well as as Veterans who don't have health care. 

- Three hypotheses:
  - Hypothesis 0: "Manage" tasks should remain part of of the Health Care hub.
  - Hypothesis 1: Health care tasks should live in 2 separate sections of va.gov:
	  - Learn & apply
	  - Manage
  - Hypothesis 2
	  - There is a UX solution between H0 and H1 - or a different solution
- Problem statements
	- How might we best serve Veterans learning about and applying for VA health care, and also clear pathways for the Veterans who want to manage their health care online?
	- How might we create the best user experience for the Veterans who want to manage their health care online?
- The Mo Studio team has been provided with a lot of information and is asking questions.  
- They just started Wednesday and are open to input and concerns
- Feedback from the Mo Studio team
	- Mural board
- The hub got really bloated and it got hard to figure things out
- We can create stickies on their mural board - https://app.mural.co/t/departmentofveteransaffairs9999/m/departmentofveteransaffairs9999/1650467657960/091df11619675d8fadd98eee2ce53bffe6aa085a?sender=megpeters0505
- Timeframe - they have this team until September.
- They will also include us in some meetings so we can divide and conquer.
- What does this look like in terms of any further research & development? 
	- It's fortunate that we were focused on the "big four"  anyway.  Looking at other things may need to be pushed out and we may need to help more 
- There's been some discussion about MyVA becoming the signed in home page.

## Updates

### Patrick
- Pull request for refactor is still in limbo so he will follow up today
- Meeting with Barry and Carnetta this afternoon
- Chatted with some of the mobile app team and they are a little bit ahead of us on the Rx refill.  He's going to try to stay more closely aligned with what they're doing so we're not doing redundant amounts of back-end work
### Lauryl
- Shane has started recruiting
- Marci got DM's by Crystal at Perigean; will refer to Lauryl & Megan
- First session is Thursday
### Megan
- Recruiting seems to be complete, but further investigation revealed that they have a roster but haven't sent out invites yet
- Did some internal VA trainings
### Jonathan
- Updated some of the desktop versions to make them consistent.
- Will reach out to Liz Lantz about how she documents things
- Got his PIV card reader
### Meg
- Meeting with Nancy Wilke and Tracy Hancock tomorrow
- Is there any update on the API?  There are some concerns about level of effort, if they are going to translate.
  - Patrick believes there may be confusion because he was doing some Vets API work so he will clarify that this afternoon.  Vets API will just be a proxy.
  - Patrick will send a Slack update this afternoon so Meg is prepared for tomorrow
- Gavin Quinn is a Veteran; he might be a good pilot person.  Jonathan also knows someone, but they don't get healthcare through VA. 

## Action Items
- [Everyone] Add notes to the Mo Studio Mural board
- [Marci] Refer Crystal Dugan to Lauryl and Megan


