# P1

## Intro - 5 minutes

Thanks for joining us today! My name is [Gary/Skyler], and I'm going to be guiding you through the session today. I'm on a team that works with the VA on the VA.gov website. Today we're going to tal k about disability compensation claims and the Claim Status Tool.

Before we start, I have a few things that I want to go over with you:

* This entire session should take about 60 minutes. I want to be sure to end on time, so I may occasionally prompt you with the next question or topic.
* In this session, we want to hear your honest opinions. There are no right or wrong answers; we are not testing your knowledge or abilities. I welcome any and all of your feedback, and I won't be offended by any opinions you express.
* Your participation in this interview is completely voluntary. If you would like to stop the session or do not want to answer a question for any reason at any time, that's no problem. Please let me know.
* I want you to know that although I work on the VA.gov website, I have no access to your records or benefits, nor do I have the ability to change your claims or benefits in any way. I am not a specialist in benefits. My primary focus is to understand your experience with the website.
* The people from Perigean who invited you to participate in this interview asked if it was alright to allow people to observe this interview, but I want to double-check with you before we get going. Is it okay with you to have  [specific number] people join us to observe this session?
  * If yes: Admit observers.
  * Then, ask the notetaker and observers to give a brief, camera-on introduction, like their first name and position with VA.gov.
  * Once complete, ask the notetaker and observers to turn off their cameras for the remainder of the session to save bandwidth
* In this session, we’ll ask you to use a test version of the website. This is a demo tool that may not function exactly the way you expect. Some areas of the prototype will be clickable, and some will not. Since it's a demo, none of your actions will affect your VA information or benefits.
* I’d like to ask your permission to record the screen and audio as we talk today? We use the recordings to confirm that we have captured your opinions accurately. After we complete the analysis, the recordings are deleted, and none of your comments would be attributed to you directly. Are you okay with me recording my screen and audio during this session?

**Start recording.**

* I have started recording. I'd like to confirm: Are you okay if I record my screen and the audio as we talk today? <br>
    *[Notes]*

## Warm-up Questions (Optional) - 5 minutes

Before we look at the website, let’s start with a few warm-up questions.

* Have you used VA.gov before?<br>
  *[Notes]*
  * *If yes*, could you briefly describe the last time you used it?<br>
  *[Notes]*
* Have you ever filed an application for disability compensation (Form 526-EZ) with the VA?<br>
  *[Notes]*
* Have you uploaded files using Va.gov or VA mobile app?<br>
  *[Notes]*

[Ask participant to share their screen]

[Share [prototype link](https://www.figma.com/proto/m1Xt8XjVDjZIbliCYcCKpE/Document-status-%28formerly-silent-failures%29?node-id=2771-20256&t=YQPL10Sibs5kZtpY-1) with participant]

## Part 1: Uploading a file successfully

### Part 1 A: CST Home Page - 5 minutes

**PROMPT**: Let's say you are signed into your VA.gov account and you're looking at this page. You submitted a claim a month ago, and you're logging in to check and see if there's been an update.

* Do you know what this page is? If yes, what is it?<br>
*[Notes]*
* Describe to me what you're seeing here.<br>
*[Notes]*
* Imagine you’re waiting for this top claim to be decided, and you want to upload evidence. What would you do?<br>
*[Notes]*

### Part 1 B: Status Page - 5 minutes

[Have the participant click "Details" on the in-progress claim]

* Tell me what you see here. (Prompt them to scroll up and down.)<br>
*[Notes]*
* Is there anything particularly useful?<br>
*[Notes]*
* Is there anything particularly confusing?<br>
*[Notes]*
* If you wanted to upload evidence to your claim, what would you do?<br>
*[Notes]*

### Part 1 C: Files Page - 10 minutes

[Participant clicks into the Files tab]

* Now tell me what you see here. (Prompt them to scroll up and down.)<br>
*[Notes]*
* Is there anything that is particularly useful about what you see here?<br>
*[Notes]*
* Is there anything that is particularly confusing about what you see here?<br>
*[Notes]*
* What steps would you take to add a file to your claim?<br>
*[Notes]*

itr's telling you the type you can use. its saying jpg..... etc. it saying the file must be 150 mb.so you have to look at your file before you upload it. it also gives you an option to maile the file too. 

interting? yea it give you pending review, dd214, it shows the status on the bottom. it's alsoa disclaimer that says documents that recevied by mail isn't show ing this tool. it give s disclaimer

it shows the fil was received by the 15th the other means reviewedd by VA. 

dd214? IT SAYING recevided. its not showing review. it just say this got it. 

diferent before the files with statufs? the reviewed meaning the VA acutally looked at it. the one ethat says received I think they just got it but they didn't "look at it". 

nothign confusing? nah, the 3rd one, it says pending review. it sasys received **but it hasn't been reviewed yet**. pretty self expalinator

### Part 1 D: Confirmation message for successful file upload - 10 minutes

[Participant completes the File upload]

* Now tell me what you see here.<br>
*[Notes]*

* How would you explain this message to a friend?<br>
*[Notes]*
the submittis is in progress but it's going to teake 2 busiessda days to see my document. so you guys put the link to check the sattus. you can follow that link to make sure if they reviewed it or not.. i mean receive it.

* If we were not here, what would be your next step? (Prompt them to scroll up and down. If they haven't.)<br>
*[Notes]*
so..yea so... i would just wait a few days after it. so i couldn't do anything in general. so I'll check the document status in a day.
click the link to check status? I think it will show all my files and sow me the newest one. and i will see something that says pending.

yea it says submission in progress, this is what I suspeected. 

* What do you think this card is trying to communicate (referring to the submission in progress card)?<br>
*[Notes]*
the card is saying everyting went through. and It could take up to 2 days to review it.

* Can you describe the relationship between the confirmation message and the "submission in progress" card?<br>
*[Notes]*
pretty transparent, because before it says 2 business days to know it will be reviewed. so its in progress but we havwen't received it yet. 

**PROMPT:** Let's pause and imagine you come back later in the day to check on your uploaded.

[Click on the name "Hector" on the top-right hand corner of the page]

* If you wanted to check the status of the claim where would you click?<br>
*[Notes]*


[Click on "Details"] 
* Where would you go to check the progress your uploaded document?<br>
*[Notes]*

I i'm looking at the date (on CST home page). and it looking at the date and ohhh... this says in progress. **it still says in progress**

prompted to click on details. hes on the status page now. 
scrolling down he says will would lcick on "overview of the claim" 
yea, this is where I epxedt to see the updates. 

moderator helpf nativated to files page. 

[Click on "Files tab"] 

* Describe what happened here? (Prompt them to scroll up and down. If they haven't.)<br>
*[Notes]*
this one says "received" but it hasn't been reviewed. theres a different beterween reviewed and received. I don't know if that document is a supposrt document so i dont know... recievied is difefent than reviewed. its two different things.

yea, i would like to see a reviewed. received then reviewed. that makes sense to me. because another says pending reviewed". so i want to see received then reviewed. 

* What would you do next?<br>
*[Notes]*
so.. like i said i ughh checking the status .. i gues I would go back to my status or overview so I guess it got recevied.

If I go to the overview, I would expect to the see the context of all my claims. i'll see step 3, and more information about the step. 

it might show different stpes 4,5 maybe 7 it going to say this would happen. 



[Click on the “next button” to see the file has now be added to the e-folder]

* Describe what happened here?<br>
*[Notes]*
* What would you do next?<br>
*[Notes]*

## Part 2: Failure processing file (Type 2 Failure)

[Click on the name "Hector" on the top-right hand corner of the page]

### Part 2 A: Home page - Open tracked item - 5 minutes

**PROMPT**: Now, we're going to imagine that the VA has requested evidence from you.

* Tell me what you see here.<br>
*[Notes]*

* What do you think this alert is communicating?<br>
*[Notes]*
it's tellimg me we need some information from you to go forward with this claim. i need to see click on details to see what information you need from me.

* Based on the text in this alert, when you upload your file, when do you expect the alert to disappear?<br>
*[Notes]*
after I submit whatever information they need from me. reading "this mesage will after wafter after...." so it wont go away until after they review the document they need from me.

* If you want to know more about this request, what would you do?<br>
*[Notes]*
go to tdetails. 

### Part 2 B: Status page - Buddy statement request - 5 minutes

[Click on "Details"]

* Tell me what you see here.<br>
*[Notes]*

ugh.. wha tyou need to do ugh... "begins reading" ok so they need this form VA form 21-4141. so i need to click on that because they need information from my VA nn-profilt  doctor. 

* Describe to me what this alert is communicating?<br>
*[Notes]*
* What stands out to you on this page?<br>
*[Notes]*
* If you wanted to learn more about the alert, what would you do?<br>
*[Notes]*
click on details. 

### Part 2 C: Request page - 5 minutes

[Click on the details]

* Describe what you’re seeing here. Remember to think aloud as you do.<br>
*[Notes]*
ughh  yea so its giving me the link to download and fill it out online. and this is where i would complete the form. 

* In your own words, can you describe what is being communicated?<br>
*[Notes]*
this is the evidence where I fill out the form and go for next step. i can do it online or download and fill it out. and I can upload it on here.

* If you wanted to respond to this request what would you do?<br>

*[Notes]*

after I fill it out online. i would save it. or if I have the can fill it out online. I can do select choose from folder. 

### Part 2 D: Confirmation for tracked item - 15 minutes

[Participant completes the File upload]

* Now tell me what you see here.<br>
*[Notes]*

hmm k, so it gave me another scenario so it the same as the last screen gaive me 2 days before they received. 

* If we were not here, what would be your next step? (Prompt them to scroll up and down. If they haven't.)<br>
*[Notes]*
check the status of the document to make sure everything went through. 


[Click on the alert, "Check the status of your document submission"]



**PROMPT**: Please scroll down to the "Documents" section. In this prototype, the page won’t scroll there automatically, but that’s the intended behavior in the final version.

* Is this what you expect to see?<br>
*[Notes]*
alright. this is what I expect to see. "reads aloud" ok so it says I've uplaodee the right yea.
yes, i expected to see this.

* What would you do next?<br>
*[Notes]*
once i'm done with this page, i would go to my status.
i would just go to my status and look at my other claims I've done in the past and check on things.

yea (go back to my home base)
  
⠀
## Part 2 E: Participant Logged out

**PROMPT**: Now we’re going to pause and imagine that you’ve logged off and 3 days later, you get an email notification on your device.

[Click on the name "Hector" on the top-right hand corner of the page]

**PROMPT**: Take a moment to review this page.

* What are you feeling when you see this?<br>
*[Notes]*

of course, you want to do everyting online, but now i have to mail it out nad print i tout. go to post office, get envelopes.. or go to VA office its more of inconvenince then 

* In your own words, describe what is being communicated.<br>
*[Notes]*
looks like the file didint meet their standard so i have to do it again.

* Why do you think you are receiving this email?<br>
*[Notes]*
maybe I didn't comeplte it correctly. reads "the instruct9ion for physical copy" seem like I have to send it in mail 
* What would you do next?<br>


*[Notes]*
  
⠀
I want you to explore the available options as if you were on your own and viewing the actual page.

* Which option do you prefer and why?<br>

*[Notes]*
I w9uold submit it in person, iVA office not too far from me. if I mail it IT COULD take more days, wisonsin to Texas. 

### Part 2 F: Return to VA.gov - 3 minutes

[Click on the "exit" button on the top-right hand corner of the page]

**PROMPT**: Now we’re logged back into the VA website to see your claim.
Without clicking anything, take a moment to review the page. Remember to think aloud as you scroll up and down.

* Tell me what you see here<br>
*[Notes]*
yea ok we need you to resubmit a document for this claim. it like what they said eearlier. i need to resbumit it. i guess it pertains to the emial.

* If you want to know more about this alert, what would you do?<br>
*[Notes]*
details. 

### Part 2 G: Status page - Resubmit Error - 10 minutes

* Tell me what you see.<br>
*[Notes]*
readiing. it says they mneed me to send by mail or in person.
oh yea, it basically likke twhat the emial is saying. if i click "learn how to submit" it probably going to send me to a page that has the same information like the email .

* Describe what you think this alert is telling you.<br>
*[Notes]*

* What do you think is the relationship between what you're seeing here and what you saw in your email?<br>
*[Notes]*
it's a close relationship. the email says what's going on. it sgive the same option but in diferent . same info but diferent oiotion

if there's antying you want to see? 
this the document you need to send in. so it has everyting


  * [If needed for reference click the “reference email” button]
  * [Click the email logo to return to previous screen]

* What do you expect to happen if you click the "X" button on the alert?
*[Notes]*
i don't know, it imight collapse it. but i dont know i still need to do do

* If you sign out and then sign back in a few days later, would you expect to see anything related to this alert?<br>
*[Notes]*
I think it'll still be there. i mean if I click X. i'm closing it but i don't think it will pop up tomorrow. if i don't click X it will still show the next day.

* What would you do next?<br>
*[Notes]*
  i go to to "leanr how to submit the document " then i learn the steps on how to accomplish that. 

#### If they say click on the files page

* What are you expecting to see here? (prompt them to scroll down)<br>
*[Notes]*
* Looking at this card, can you describe what's being communicated?<br>
*[Notes]*
* If you wanted to resubmit your documents what would you do?<br>
*[Notes]*
* [click the CTA to resubmit documents]
⠀
#### If they chose learn how to resubmit document

* [click the CTA to resubmit documents]

### Part 2 H: Resubmit notice page - 10 minutes
Without clicking anything, take a moment to review the page. Remember to think aloud as you scroll up and down.

* Tell me what you see?<br>
*[Notes]*
Pretty much what it tells me in the email. we couldn't submit it online, we need to go into the emial. print it out, write the social on there and send it in. it also saysin g if i want to confirm VA recieved the doucment i can call in. 

* What do you think is the relationship between what you're seeing here and what you saw in your email?<br>
*[Notes]*
ahh i think its the same relationship. its basically telling me how to do it. so i think it [retty muc hthe same. 
  * [If needed for reference click the “reference email” button]
  * [Click the email logo to return to previous screen]

* What do you think will happen after you submit your document using one of these options?<br>
*[Notes]*
that's likely.. because it says..... so its going to be low because I they sayd to do it in person so i would just send a phycial copy (less likely to resubmit online0. 

how long will VA take - hard to guess with the VA, 1 wek 2 weks. 
⠀
## Post-Task Interview - 5 minutes

* Overall, what did you think of what you saw today? Was it clear or confusing?<br>
*[Notes]*
like i said it was very clearn, bery transperatne and intuitive. you upload your file. if it dont' submit itsomething wrong with the system. so it lets you lknow something with the system doesn't upload correclty, so you can write it out and send it to VAA nother ways. there's another instance you submit a file and gtive you 2 busiess days to know we received it. there's naother part VA show received it. and another part where VA reviewed. i mean does recevied it mean VA already reviewed ? maybe received emeans they've don't need to review. 

* Was there anything helpful?<br>
*[Notes]*
status, recent activity (really helped me out). steps step 3 out of 8. then I acan go see what happens in step 4. you know that sort of thing. 

* On a scale of 1-5, how confident do you feel about being able to resubmit your document if you received a notice like this in real life? (1 being least confident, 5 being most confident.)<br>
*[Notes]*
i'll definteily say a 5. i'm very confirment submitted document

* On a scale of 1-5, how confident do you feel VA will effectively manage your paper documents you've submitted? (1 being least confident, 5 being most confident.)<br>
*[Notes]*
ughhh i 'd say a 4 - like i said before, if i'm updating a document online and it says somethign is wrong with the documewnt now you are making it inconvienece for me. no i have to rprint it out, mget envilopes etc. so that's why i say it 4 because If I was doign something online i sexpect ti to be 100% effienctl
  * Why?<br>
  *[Notes]*
* Any questions for me?<br>
*[Notes]*
thgey have to work on the status, received or review. because it if doesn't say review like DD214. 
  
## Thank-You and Closing - 1 minute

Thank you for sharing your thoughts with us today. Your feedback was greatly appreciated as we work to improve the site for Veterans.

Perigean will send you a thank you note with a brief message to share with other Veterans who might want to participate in future research.

Thanks again, and have a great day!

## Emergency Exit

[In the rare case of an emergency during a session, be prepared with an [emergency exit strategy](https://depo-platform-documentation.scrollhelp.site/research-design/Research-Safety-and-Emergency-Exit-Strategies.2143649793.html#ResearchSafetyandEmergencyExitStrategies-Sampleexitstrategies). Plan to include here at least one option, so its easy to find during a session. Take some time to practice so it feels more comfortable.]
