# P12

## Warm-up Questions (Optional) - 5 minutes

Before we look at the website, let’s start with a few warm-up questions.

* Have you used VA.gov before?
> Yes. The last time I used VA.gov was to update dependent information.
* Have you ever filed an application for disability compensation (Form 526-EZ) with the VA?
> Yes

* Have you uploaded files using Va.gov or VA mobile app?
> Using VA.gov I've uploaded files


## Part 1: Uploading a file successfully

### Part 1 A: CST Home Page - 5 minutes

**PROMPT**: Let's say you are signed into your VA.gov account and you're looking at this page. You submitted a claim a month ago, and you're logging in to check and see if there's been an update.

> So this would be where I see my claim status, what the claim was for, and when I submitted the claim. This lets me know how far along in the process this is, being Step 3 of 8, I would hit "more details" (clicks into it) 

* Do you know what this page is? If yes, what is it?
> 

* Imagine you’re waiting for this top claim to be decided, and you want to upload evidence. What would you do?
> From this page I would either click Details and see if it lets me upload it from there, or I would go to this section here and click where it says "Submit claims by mail or in person" but I would first go into "Details" to see if I could do it from the website. 

#### Things to watch for:

* Does the participant recognize the Claim Status Tool?
* Do they recognize which claim is in progress?

### Part 1 B: Status Page - 5 minutes

[Have the participant click "Details" on the in-progress claim]

* Tell me what you see here. (Prompt them to scroll up and down.)
> So now that I'm in here...I would click Files to see if I could upload Files there. And then this is just showing Recent Acitivyt up until this point. And it's still in step 3 right now. 

* Is there anything particularly useful?
> It says there's nothing I need to do, so at least I know I didn't miss any communications or the claim isn't waiting for me to upload anything in order to process the claim. So that stands out.

* Is there anything particularly confusing?
> No I mean it's got the received date...last updated...it's in the evidence gathering stage so if I haven't uploaded any files it would be confusing if it doesn't say that I need to upload any files or if it's gathering information from the VA...yeah

* If you wanted to upload evidence to your claim, what would you do?
> I would click on Files

#### Things to watch for:

* How do Veterans react to the Status page in general?
> 

* Do Veterans read the recent activity section and find it important?
> NOTES

* Do Veterans know what to do if they want to add files to their claim online?
> NOTES

### Part 1 C: Files Page - 10 minutes

[Participant clicks into the Files tab]

* Now tell me what you see here. (Prompt them to scroll up and down.)
> And then here's my upload button here. And I would more than likely upload a PDF or a JPG.

* Is there anything that is particularly useful about what you see here?
> This is showing that documents have already been received. So it looks like there was a letter that I've already uploaded to the claim which is the buddy statement, whcih would be from someone a family or friend about my condition. This looks like a VA form maybe...5103. And then this is a copy of my DD214 which is proof of service which has been uploaded as well. So it does show that those documents have been received. And it looks like this is when the claim was received and then this was later...(reading dates in relation to when claim was submitted). It says that more evidence is being requested at this time, but if there's something I want to upload I can upload here. 

* Is there anything that is particularly confusing about what you see here?
> No this seems pretty straightforward

* What steps would you take to add a file to your claim?
> I'd select Upload File. So then I would select that file and then I need to select a file type. So it says Military Personnel...so we're gonna call that Military Personnel Record for the file type, and then submit files for review.


#### Things to watch for:

* What content on the page is most useful to the Veteran? Least helpful or confusing?
> NOTES

* Do Veterans read the document files section and find it important?
> NOTES

### Part 1 D: Confirmation message for successful file upload - 10 minutes

[Participant completes the File upload]

> OK so it gives me a status says the submission is in progress, lets me know it can take up to two days, and then from this page I can review the status of the submission by clicking this (the link). Looks good. 

* How would you explain this message to a friend?
> I would explain that you've uploaded your document and you need to wait 48 hours for the document to be received on your claim. And you can always come back if you need to log back in and check on the status.

* If we were not here, what would be your next step? (Prompt them to scroll up and down. If they haven't.)
> If I just needed to upload that file then I would just sign out at this point and then I would wait...come back to two days later and check on the status. I may click on the link. 

* Is this what you expected to see?
> No I mean...well...I guess since I uploaded it I would expect that it would show received. But it's good that it's telling me that it can take 2 days so I'm not under the impression that as soon as I uploaded it it's attached to the claim.

* What do you think this card is trying to communicate (referring to the submission in progress card)?
> It's letting me know what was uploaded and the document type, and then when it was uploaded. And it's also letting me know that it has not been received yet...it's saying that clear...that it can take up to two days to receive the documents. So it's not in this column yet (Documents Received) it's still here (Submissions in Progress) in progress.

* Can you describe the relationship between the confirmation message and the "submission in progress" card?
> They both have the date that the submission started. It's a little bit of different language. This one says "Document submission started on Jan 16" this one says "Submitted on Jan 16" -- they're both giving me the impression that the submission is in progress...so giving me the status. I'm guessing if I click on this (the link in the alert) it's supposed to take me here (to the submission card). The only confusion would be that this one says "Submission started on Jan 16" and this one says "Submitted on Jan 16". 


**PROMPT:** Let's pause and imagine you come back later in the day to check on your uploaded.

[Click on the name "Hector" on the top-right hand corner of the page]

* If you wanted to check the status of the claim where would you click?
> It's still in Step 3 of 8 which is evidence gathering. 

[Click on "Details"] 
* Where would you go to check the progress your uploaded document?
> I would go back to the Files tab.

[Click on "Files tab"] 

* Describe what happened here? (Prompt them to scroll up and down. If they haven't.)
> OK so now that section is gone where it says it was in progress, and it's been added to the Documents Received. And it gives me a date that it was received on. 

* When you look at the other files listed, some have a status while others don’t. What do you think is the difference between these files?
> Only one has been reviewed by the VA.

* When you look at the other files listed, some have a status while others don’t. What do you think is the difference between these files?
> NOTES

* Would you expect to see statuses on all of these files?"
> I would, I would epxect to see "Pending review" under Military Personnel, maybe not the DD214 that's understandable but I would expect to see it under (the others). (Wouldn't expect DD214) just because of the type of document it is, I would expect that there's enough AI to just scan it and verify that it's the right type of document. I imagine that one would be easier to verify. These other ones would have information about the actual condition, so it would take longer for them to go through that. 

* What would you do next?
> I would take a look at the Overview. (What would you expect to see?) Maybe if it would let me know an expected date. That's probably being hopeful (laughs) ... that's probably not gonna happen. Expected date for the claim to be completed, whether it's gonna be another 60 days or 90 days...I don't think I've ever seen anything like that. 

#### Things to watch for:

* When they see the confirmation message, are they more likely to leave the page or check their submission status?
> NOTES

* Do they understand what the "submission in progress" card is?
> NOTES

* Once the document hits the eFolder, is it clear the submitted document is now added to their records and no longer pending?
> NOTES

## Part 2: Failure processing file (Type 2 Failure)

[Click on the name "Hector" on the top-right hand corner of the page]

### Part 2 A: Home page - Open tracked item - 5 minutes

**PROMPT**: Now, we're going to imagine that the VA has requested evidence from you.

* What do you think this alert is communicating?
> This is the claim, same claim that was in progress that was submitted on Dec 15. Looks like there was a letter, development letter that was sent to me. So this should be a letter about the claim, some updated information about the claim. It's saying check the claim Details to learn more. That's good to know that once I submit the response to the request that this message will go away. So I would click on Details from here. 

* Based on the text in this alert, when you upload your file, when do you expect the alert to disappear?
> NOTES

* If you want to know more about this request, what would you do?
> I would click on details

#### Things to watch for:

* Do they understand that they need to take action?
> NOTES

* Is it clear that the alert will remain visible until VA has reviewed the file and not when the Veteran uploads the file?
> NOTES

### Part 2 B: Status page - open request - 5 minutes

[Click on "Details"]

* Describe to me what this alert is communicating?
> So this is the form that they are requesting...so this would be any treatment I've had on the condition that was not at a VA hospital, and they would need by permission to obtain that information to be able to add it to the claim. So I could click "Details" to get more information on that, and I'm guessing it would give me a PDF to download. I would hope that Details would give me a PDF to download.

* What pieces of information would you say are important to you on this page?
> On this page the claim status, that's important let's me know that it's still in progress, hasn't been closed yet, lets me know the last time that it's updated, and also the "What you need to do" is the most important because this is th reason I clicked on this to get here. And then also this information, the VA form number that I need, and what the form is for, that's important as well. And this here that we're still in step 3 of 8 so I need to submit the form while evidence is still being gathered.

* If you wanted to learn more about the alert, what would you do?
> I would click Details from here

### Part 2 C: Request page - 5 minutes

[Click on the details]

* Describe what you’re seeing here. Remember to think aloud as you do.
> OK and there's the form to download, or a link that'll let me download the form. So again this tells me the VA form number, what the form is for, a little bit more information. And here it says I can download the form or fill it out online, so this link will let me do that...this is giving me the date that it was requested, and then this is giving me the window to respond to the request. If I do call teh call center, a representative may refer to this as the form number so that's good to know so that we can have a clear conversation. Maybe that should be in bold or highlighted or something, but I do see that. If I donwload the form online and submit it, there's a section here that I can upload. 

* In your own words, how would you describe what's being communicated?
> On this page, this is gonna allow me to get to the form that I need, I need to fill out this form so the VA can finish the evidence gathering step, I've submitted everything else so this is probably the last thing they need to get to the last bit of medical records to continue processing the claim. I've got 30 days to get this in, because if I don't get it in the status may change, or evidence may not be added to the claim so I'll have to call the number or I'll get a letter in the mail letting me know that the evidence wasn't submitted on time. And it lets me know that the faster I get it in, the faster a decision can be made on the claim. 

* If you wanted to upload your response, how would you go about it?
> I would either drag and drop or click "Choose from folder"

When the participant see the pre-populated upload file remind them: 

**PROMPT**: Just a reminder for this demo, we’ve pre-uploaded a file to simulate selecting one from your device.

### Part 2 D: Confirmation for tracked item - 15 minutes

[Participant completes the File upload]

* If we were not here, what would be your next step? (Prompt them to scroll up and down. If they haven't.)
> 

[Click on the alert, "Check the status of your document submission"]

**PROMPT**: Please scroll down to the "Documents" section. In this prototype, the page won’t scroll there automatically, but that’s the intended behavior in the final version.

* Is this what you expect to see?
> I was anticipating that when I scroll down the first thing I would see would be this information right here (Recent Activity) but I had to scroll down further...down to recent activity. 

* What would you do next?
> I would at least come back in 2 days to check the status to see if the document has been received. 

#### Things to watch for:

* Do they notice the link to the document status in the confirmation message?
> Yes but he said he didn't know where it would go. Once we explained that in production it would scroll him to the Submission in progress card of the Files tab he said that made sense.

* Do they navigate to the Files tab to check the document status?
> NOTES  
⠀
## Part 2 E: Participant Logged out

**PROMPT**: Now we’re going to pause and imagine that you’ve logged off and 3 days later, you get an email notification on your device.

[Click on the name "Hector" on the top-right hand corner of the page]

**PROMPT**: Take a moment to review this page.

> Oh. So this would be concerning right. So now I get a message saying can't process the document. So this is an email...(reads email). 

* What are you feeling when you see this?
> Oh I'm mad. Because I didn't do anything wrong and the document didn't get processed, and it's saying it's a problem with the system. Or not mad but upset. I may call the toll free number to see if there's anything else I can do. Either mail it in or take it in person. I mean it does say "we're sorry about this" so there's a little bit of empathy in there, so it's not too bad. But I would be upset if I got this message.

* In your own words, describe what is being communicated.
> So I would send it in by mail...to this mailing address which is very long, or I would take it in person to a regional office. Click on this it's probably going to ask me for my zip code to find the nearest one. If I need another copy I can get one from the VA regional office and fill it out...OK yeah I think the only thing I would want to see in this email is a section that allows me to get back to the website so I can download the form as an option as well. 

* Why do you think you are receiving this email?
> NOTES

* What would you do next?
> 
⠀
I want you to explore the available options as if you were on your own and viewing the actual page.

* Which option do you prefer and why?
> I'd rather take it in person that way I know that it's being submitted because I'm getting that physical confirmation because then I'm handing it to someone so I know it's being added to the claim and I'm getting that confirmation the same day versus mailing it in, then waiting on mail time, and waiting for information to be updated on the website. 

### Part 2 F: Return to VA.gov - 3 minutes

[Click on the "exit" button on the top-right hand corner of the page]

**PROMPT**: Now we’re logged back into the VA website to see your claim.
Without clicking anything, take a moment to review the page. Remember to think aloud as you scroll up and down.

> We're still in step 3 we're still gathering evidence, and then there's a red message here that's saying we need you to resubmit document for this claim. So either I may not have resubmitted this yet or it hasn't been processed because this message is still here and this has not been added to the claim yet. 

* If you want to know more about this alert, what would you do?
> NOTES

### Part 2 G: Status page - Resubmit Error - 10 minutes

* Describe what you think this alert is telling you.
> This is the email that I received. We're sorry there's been a problem with our system. This one doesn't say sorry. It's the same information I'm getting in the email...that the document wasn't able to be added to my claim and the only way it can be added is by me submitting it in person or submitting it in the mail. 

* What do you think is the relationship between what you're seeing here and what you saw in your email? 
  * [If needed for reference click the “reference email” button]
  * [Click the email logo to return to previous screen]
> NOTES

* What do you expect to happen if you click the "X" button on the alert? If you sign out and then sign back in a few days later, would you expect to see this alert again?
> I would expect that it would close the alert. Maybe it would close to a smaller one (collapse) I woudln't want it to close entirely because then I might forget. I would expect to see the alert until the document has been added to the claim. 

* Is there anything in the alert you're not seeing that you wish was there?
> If there was a link to open up the PDF that would be convenient

* What would you do next?
> I would select "Learn how to submit documents by mail or in person"

#### If they say click on the files page

* What are you expecting to see here? (prompt them to scroll down)
> NOTES

* Looking at this card, can you describe what's being communicated?
> NOTES

* If you wanted to resubmit your documents what would you do?
> NOTES

* [click the CTA to resubmit documents]
⠀
#### If they chose learn how to resubmit document

* [click the CTA to resubmit documents]

### Part 2 H: Resubmit notice page - 10 minutes
Without clicking anything, take a moment to review the page. Remember to think aloud as you scroll up and down.

> So this is similar language to the email. If I've already submitted the documents there's nothing else to do...and I've got two options. Here's a message I've got to pay attention to, print a copy and write my SSN on the document. ANd then submit by mail or in person, and I would click here to find a VA regional office that I would submit to. So if I submit by mail or in person I could call this number to confirm that it's been received, give me peace of mind. 

* What do you think is the relationship between what you're seeing here and what you saw in your email? 
  * [If needed for reference click the “reference email” button]
  * [Click the email logo to return to previous screen]
> 

* How likely are you to re-upload the document instead of sending a physical copy?
> Not likely. Because then I need to wait another three days just to find out that it can't be uploaded. And that would delay the process. So I'll probably submit it in person. 

* What do you think will happen after you submit your document using one of these options?
> I think that it would update to submission in progress on that Files tab, which we're nowhere near, but yeah I would expect to see that update. 

#### Things to watch for:

* Do they use the "recent activity" section to track the progress of their upload?
* Do they understand why they are seeing an email?
* Can they identify the relationship between the email and in-app alerts?
* Do they understand the options available for resubmitting files to VA?
⠀
## Post-Task Interview - 5 minutes

* Overall, what did you think of what you saw today? Was it clear or confusing?
> I've submitted a few claims through the VA so I think it's been getting better, that was actually a pretty good layout so everything was there on the screen, a lot of the information was there. Some of the information like the details about adding your SSN that's important and that was sort of in the smaller font so I would want to see that a little bigger. If I take it in person they would remind me but if I send it in mail that might cause a delay. When I got the message about the document not being uploaded it didn't encourage me to try to re-upload it, so I took that to mean I needed to submit it in person or by mail. If that was an option it would have been nice to have that communicated.

* Was there anything specifically helpful?
> NOTES

* On a scale of 1-5, how confident do you feel about being able to resubmit your document if you received a notice like this in real life? (1 being least confident, 5 being most confident.)
  * Why?
> I would say 4, just because it failed once. And it's a system issue. And that's the extent of the information that I got about it. 

* On a scale of 1-5, How confident are you that VA will effectively manage the paper documents you’ve submitted? (1 being least confident, 5 being most confident.)
  * Why?
> 5 I mean yeah yeah I've never had a bad experience mailing in documentation. It just takes a very long time I think. Any time I've mailed something in, it's taken a very long time. But they've always received it. 

* Any questions for me?
> NOTES
  
## Thank-You and Closing - 1 minute

Thank you for sharing your thoughts with us today. Your feedback was greatly appreciated as we work to improve the site for Veterans.

Perigean will send you a thank you note with a brief message to share with other Veterans who might want to participate in future research.

Thanks again, and have a great day!

## Emergency Exit

[In the rare case of an emergency during a session, be prepared with an [emergency exit strategy](https://depo-platform-documentation.scrollhelp.site/research-design/Research-Safety-and-Emergency-Exit-Strategies.2143649793.html#ResearchSafetyandEmergencyExitStrategies-Sampleexitstrategies). Plan to include here at least one option, so its easy to find during a session. Take some time to practice so it feels more comfortable.]
