# P13

## Warm-up Questions (Optional) - 5 minutes

Before we look at the website, let’s start with a few warm-up questions.

* Have you used VA.gov before?
> Yes - I had to go in and change bank accounts, had to make sure that was updated and stuff.
* Have you ever filed an application for disability compensation (Form 526-EZ) with the VA?
> Yes

* Have you uploaded files using Va.gov or VA mobile app?
> Yes – VA.gov


## Part 1: Uploading a file successfully

### Part 1 A: CST Home Page - 5 minutes

**PROMPT**: Let's say you are signed into your VA.gov account and you're looking at this page. You submitted a claim a month ago, and you're logging in to check and see if there's been an update.

> Everything is smooth, what I like about it is is not too much going on. I'd click to see the most recent one in December, step 3 of 8, so I'm still gatering evidence. I would click details to see what I would do next, is there something I gotta wait on.

* Do you know what this page is? If yes, what is it?
> Yeah, after you've submitted a claim it lets you know what the status is and it lets you know if you've got to submit more documents, it lets you know what step it's in.

* Imagine you’re waiting for this top claim to be decided, and you want to upload evidence. What would you do?
> It's been a bit, I would click on Details

#### Things to watch for:

* Does the participant recognize the Claim Status Tool?
* Do they recognize which claim is in progress?

### Part 1 B: Status Page - 5 minutes

[Have the participant click "Details" on the in-progress claim]

* Tell me what you see here. (Prompt them to scroll up and down.)
> Overview and progress (reading) right now it's just showing that nothing is needed right now so they're just still reviewing. 

* Is there anything particularly useful?
> Well I like how they have the little hyperlinks up here so you can know what you need to click on. And I like how the overview of process that kinda lets you know, it kinda answers your questions before you ask them, and it kinda gives you a little timeline. Having that timeline is always helpful. It's kinda like your professor gave you that syllabulus of here's what we're gonna go over in the Recent Activity. 

* Is there anything particularly confusing?
> No I would say it's pretty much straightforward because it lets you know what I did. It's kinda like they read the feedback of people trying it out and why they may not like somethign and then put it in order so it would hit you as you scroll so you can kinda stay on task and not have to hunt too much or anything. Those little things (NEed help) is simple but it means a lot because veterans are 22 years old 72 years old having that information is key. You don't want to get someone frustrated with the site...everything is pretty much right there.

* If you wanted to upload evidence to your claim, what would you do?
> I would click on Files and then Upload Files 

#### Things to watch for:

* How do Veterans react to the Status page in general?
> NOTES

* Do Veterans read the recent activity section and find it important?
> NOTES

* Do Veterans know what to do if they want to add files to their claim online?
> NOTES

### Part 1 C: Files Page - 10 minutes

[Participant clicks into the Files tab]

* Now tell me what you see here. (Prompt them to scroll up and down.)
> Upload Files it lets me know the size limits and other things

* Is there anything that is particularly useful about what you see here?
> It's pretty much simple, not too much flash, simple buttons, and then submit files for review. I like that they put "Submit files for review" instead of just "Submit". So that few extra words in there is definitely helpful for someone if they got confused, didn't know what the "Submit" was.

* Is there anything that is particularly confusing about what you see here?
> No I wouldn't say anything is confusing, it's pretty much self explanatory. This need to mail your files, that's a good one, I'd probably add a little envelope or a little mailbox or something like that to stand out. I could probably scroll of this 10 times and not see that because it just blends in. Having those little dots under it I guess is helpful but not everbody's gonna see it...something to help it stand out color or mailbox make it stand out because they might not see that little dropdown. 

* What steps would you take to add a file to your claim?
> NOTES


#### Things to watch for:

* What content on the page is most useful to the Veteran? Least helpful or confusing?
> NOTES

* Do Veterans read the document files section and find it important?
> NOTES

### Part 1 D: Confirmation message for successful file upload - 10 minutes

[Participant completes the File upload]

* How would you explain this message to a friend?
> Hey after you submit everything you're gonna see a little message at the top that your document's been submitted and it gives that the date that it did. Just look for the little check mark, that little check mark is what you're gonna see up there similar to a check mark when you're checking something off a list. 

* If we were not here, what would be your next step? (Prompt them to scroll up and down. If they haven't.)
> I would click on the check the status of your document submissions and that's pretty much it unless there was something else I needed to upload. I would take a look and see if the stuff I submitted is on there as far as the other documents that is still showing on there. That's it.

* Is this what you expected to see?
> I didn't realize it was gonna be right up under there which is fun, seeing everything in chronological order from the latest ones to the earlies ones, so having it there is easy to read. 

* What do you think this card is trying to communicate (referring to the submission in progress card)?
> Similar to what they did up here (with the alert) just to let you know that they did receive your documents, that particular one is in a square so that one's basically in progress right now. So just to let you know that you did do it correctly. It's going to be updating your status soon. 

* Can you describe the relationship between the confirmation message and the "submission in progress" card?
> NOTES

**PROMPT:** Let's pause and imagine you come back later in the day to check on your uploaded.

[Click on the name "Hector" on the top-right hand corner of the page]

* If you wanted to check the status of the claim where would you click?
> I would click on it (details) again

[Click on "Details"] 
* Where would you go to check the progress your uploaded document?
> Everything is just saying progress, let me click on files...

[Click on "Files tab"] 

* Describe what happened here? (Prompt them to scroll up and down. If they haven't.)
> I see that it is there that they received it on the 16th. So I can see that you received it versus the other one is pending review from last month. 

* When you look at the other files listed, some have a status while others don’t. What do you think is the difference between these files?
> Probably reviewed by different departments, it's probably not just one guy reading all of them. So the ones with the green check mark is kinda like OK that one is good we're taking that one, where the one that says "pending review" is we have but we gotta review it. Similar to DD214 they just received it. But this 5103 evidence they read it and felt it was OK to have it towards the evidence for a claim. 

* Would you expect to see statuses on all of these files?"
> I would...maybe a yellow for pending and maybe another one for "just got submitted" and maybe it changes colors as it goes through the process. Because for me if I see a check mark with a green background it means OK that one is good. You don't have to go crazy with the colors, but maybe three colors to let someone know something was pending, something was received...and approved.

* What would you do next?
> That would be pretty much it pertaining to my claim, I would click on other things on the site. 

#### Things to watch for:

* When they see the confirmation message, are they more likely to leave the page or check their submission status?
> NOTES

* Do they understand what the "submission in progress" card is?
> NOTES

* Once the document hits the eFolder, is it clear the submitted document is now added to their records and no longer pending?
> NOTES

## Part 2: Failure processing file (Type 2 Failure)

[Click on the name "Hector" on the top-right hand corner of the page]

### Part 2 A: Home page - Open tracked item - 5 minutes

**PROMPT**: Now, we're going to imagine that the VA has requested evidence from you.

* What do you think this alert is communicating?
> It's basically just saying it's something I need to look at...requesting more information from you...check the claim's details to learn more...so that just lets me know that we got your stuff but we still need some more documents from you so go ahead and click on it so you can go ahead and upload what we are requesting and they'll let me know once they're finished reviewing everything. 

* Based on the text in this alert, when you upload your file, when do you expect the alert to disappear?
> NOTES

* If you want to know more about this request, what would you do?
> I would click on the Details button here and we'll see what's going on with this particular claim with this last month

#### Things to watch for:

* Do they understand that they need to take action?
> NOTES

* Is it clear that the alert will remain visible until VA has reviewed the file and not when the Veteran uploads the file?
> NOTES

### Part 2 B: Status page - open request - 5 minutes

[Click on "Details"]

* Describe to me what this alert is communicating?
> So basically it's just letting me know that some documents are needed, basically it's like a caution the little (icon) lets me know hey we're not stopping, we're just slowing down with your progress because we need some more documents on there so it's telling me I need to click here to take care of that particular form, that release form.

* What pieces of information would you say are important to you on this page?
> Having that background because it stands out so I know it's something is different. It's kind of like if you're troubleshooting something it's like "Ok that wasn't there before" so having that color choice...with the caution and the triangle...it stands out on the page.

* If you wanted to learn more about the alert, what would you do?
> Then I would click on the details to see what it's asking

### Part 2 C: Request page - 5 minutes

[Click on the details]

* Describe what you’re seeing here. Remember to think aloud as you do.
> 

* In your own words, how would you describe what's being communicated?
> It's prety straightforward kinda lets you know what that particular form is for, gives you examples and stuff like that. With the links here I would ... it's a lot going on as far as should I be clicking on here should I be clicking on this claim letter. I guess this link just kinda takes me back to show me the lettter that I've seen before. 

* If you wanted to upload your response, how would you go about it?
> I would download the form and then fill it out and then once I have it on there saved as that name -- (add files)-- and then I would go ahead and "submit file for review." 

When the participant see the pre-populated upload file remind them: 

**PROMPT**: Just a reminder for this demo, we’ve pre-uploaded a file to simulate selecting one from your device.

### Part 2 D: Confirmation for tracked item - 15 minutes

[Participant completes the File upload]

* If we were not here, what would be your next step? (Prompt them to scroll up and down. If they haven't.)
> NOTES

[Click on the alert, "Check the status of your document submission"]

**PROMPT**: Please scroll down to the "Documents" section. In this prototype, the page won’t scroll there automatically, but that’s the intended behavior in the final version.

* Is this what you expect to see?
> Yeah similar to before, the submission up here is gonna match what's here, and the file and the date that it was submitted. 

* What would you do next?
> 

#### Things to watch for:

* Do they notice the link to the document status in the confirmation message?
> NOTES

* Do they navigate to the Files tab to check the document status?
> NOTES  
⠀
## Part 2 E: Participant Logged out

**PROMPT**: Now we’re going to pause and imagine that you’ve logged off and 3 days later, you get an email notification on your device.

[Click on the name "Hector" on the top-right hand corner of the page]

**PROMPT**: Take a moment to review this page.

> So once I got that email I probably would call in to see if anything else could be done, or if those are my only options (by mail or in person). That's what I would do. Anytime anybody's not embracing technology I'm gonna fight you...if I have to get in my car and drive there, or if I gotta do snail mail...they gotta at least tell me there's no other way and I'll go from there. I see Option 1 and Option 2 those are the only options but I'll probably still try to call since you listed the phone number three times on this page. "I ain't driving"

* What are you feeling when you see this?
> I'm feeling frustrated or disappointed, at least bring back the caution so at least I can proceed with caution but at least I can go forward. It's like if you're driving and there's construction, I can at least go slow...this makes me feel like I messed up or I did something wrong and now you penalized me and now I gotta get in my car or go to the post office. 

* In your own words, describe what is being communicated.
> NOTES

* Why do you think you are receiving this email?
> NOTES

* What would you do next?
> Would look up regional office, would call, and that's pretty much it - exit out of there
⠀
I want you to explore the available options as if you were on your own and viewing the actual page.

* Which option do you prefer and why?
> I like in person...if the place is within a reasonable drive...it says "regional office"...at least I know I've handed it to somebody and they got this...the mail unless you send it certified and you don't know. If they say they didn't get it now you've waited 2 weeks and you gotta do it again.

### Part 2 F: Return to VA.gov - 3 minutes

[Click on the "exit" button on the top-right hand corner of the page]

**PROMPT**: Now we’re logged back into the VA website to see your claim.
Without clicking anything, take a moment to review the page. Remember to think aloud as you scroll up and down.

> Don't see anything at the top of the screen for submission, this one's still showing the status

* If you want to know more about this alert, what would you do?
> I would click on Details, I see (the alert) so I know there's something in there waiting on me.

### Part 2 G: Status page - Resubmit Error - 10 minutes

* Describe what you think this alert is telling you.
> So now it's telling me I have to do it those ways so then I would have to learn how to do it by mail or in person or I'm going to be honest I'd click on Files and try it again and have it tell me no again. We can play this game. I got all day. I would click on File and try to submit that same document, maybe someone else would get it, and it would go through the system.

* What do you think is the relationship between what you're seeing here and what you saw in your email? 
  * [If needed for reference click the “reference email” button]
  * [Click the email logo to return to previous screen]
> It's kind of just explaining what the email was about and letting me know that hey because of the systems that's why they couldn't so this is kinda my "person" I would talk to ... they kinda wrote it out. So it's basically giving me a breakdown of what the email was about and how I can take care of it and how I can update the situation.

* What do you expect to happen if you click the "X" button on the alert? 
> It would make this notification go away.

* If you sign out and then sign back in a few days later, would you expect to see this alert again?
> Probably - that's what's pending so until they get it that'd probably stay on there until they get something from me

* Is there anything in the alert you're not seeing that you wish was there?
> No that's pretty much it. 

* What would you do next?
> I would probably try to submit it again

#### If they say click on the files page

> That's probably why I woudln't send it in the mail because I don't want to put my SSN on there. If I bring it to the office I probably don't have to (put SSN on it). 

* What are you expecting to see here? (prompt them to scroll down)
> NOTES

* Looking at this card, can you describe what's being communicated?
> NOTES

* If you wanted to resubmit your documents what would you do?
> NOTES

* [click the CTA to resubmit documents]
⠀
#### If they chose learn how to resubmit document

* [click the CTA to resubmit documents]

### Part 2 H: Resubmit notice page - 10 minutes
Without clicking anything, take a moment to review the page. Remember to think aloud as you scroll up and down.

* What do you think is the relationship between what you're seeing here and what you saw in your email? 
  * [If needed for reference click the “reference email” button]
  * [Click the email logo to return to previous screen]
> Still kinda just gives you that breakdown and how to fix what you saw in the email...becuase you basically already saw in the email...this is just kinda explaining what you need (to do). 

* How likely are you to re-upload the document instead of sending a physical copy?
> (He would try to re-upload)

* What do you think will happen after you submit your document using one of these options?
> NOTES

#### Things to watch for:

* Do they use the "recent activity" section to track the progress of their upload?
* Do they understand why they are seeing an email?
* Can they identify the relationship between the email and in-app alerts?
* Do they understand the options available for resubmitting files to VA?
⠀
## Post-Task Interview - 5 minutes

* Overall, what did you think of what you saw today? Was it clear or confusing?
> It was clear. Not really confusing per se, some of it was kinda repeats, I don't think you need the phone number on there three times. Anything that needs to be highlighted maybe have a different color background so it can stand out. Different characters...maybe a mailbox. Colors are helpful if you want something to stand out, people will scroll over stuff without even realizing that it's there. 

* Was there anything specifically helpful?
> The chronological order of stuff is always helpful because it puts it right on the screen to show me my progress of what I've done, showing my documents of what I've submitted and when I've submitted the green check mark is helpful to let me know I can check it off my list, green is go, so that's helpful. So having those symbols definitely are helpful.

* On a scale of 1-5, how confident do you feel about being able to resubmit your document if you received a notice like this in real life? (1 being least confident, 5 being most confident.)
  * Why?
> Yeah I can do it, it's self-explanatory as far as they give you the options of mailing it in or having that link to show the regional offices. I would say 5 I can still handle it. 

* On a scale of 1-5, How confident are you that VA will effectively manage the paper documents you’ve submitted? (1 being least confident, 5 being most confident.)
  * Why?
> I would say 4. With the amount, that's why I say you gotta embrace technology because there's so many claims, so many veterans...you run that risk where at least if it's digital you're less likely to lose something...so that's why I give it a 4. Not bad but I could see, eventually you gotta get rid of the paper.

* Any questions for me?
> No questions thanks for having me, it's pretty simple
  
## Thank-You and Closing - 1 minute

Thank you for sharing your thoughts with us today. Your feedback was greatly appreciated as we work to improve the site for Veterans.

Perigean will send you a thank you note with a brief message to share with other Veterans who might want to participate in future research.

Thanks again, and have a great day!

## Emergency Exit

[In the rare case of an emergency during a session, be prepared with an [emergency exit strategy](https://depo-platform-documentation.scrollhelp.site/research-design/Research-Safety-and-Emergency-Exit-Strategies.2143649793.html#ResearchSafetyandEmergencyExitStrategies-Sampleexitstrategies). Plan to include here at least one option, so its easy to find during a session. Take some time to practice so it feels more comfortable.]
