# P2

## Intro - 5 minutes

Thanks for joining us today! My name is [Gary/Skyler], and I'm going to be guiding you through the session today. I'm on a team that works with the VA on the VA.gov website. Today we're going to tal k about disability compensation claims and the Claim Status Tool.

Before we start, I have a few things that I want to go over with you:

* This entire session should take about 60 minutes. I want to be sure to end on time, so I may occasionally prompt you with the next question or topic.
* In this session, we want to hear your honest opinions. There are no right or wrong answers; we are not testing your knowledge or abilities. I welcome any and all of your feedback, and I won't be offended by any opinions you express.
* Your participation in this interview is completely voluntary. If you would like to stop the session or do not want to answer a question for any reason at any time, that's no problem. Please let me know.
* I want you to know that although I work on the VA.gov website, I have no access to your records or benefits, nor do I have the ability to change your claims or benefits in any way. I am not a specialist in benefits. My primary focus is to understand your experience with the website.
* The people from Perigean who invited you to participate in this interview asked if it was alright to allow people to observe this interview, but I want to double-check with you before we get going. Is it okay with you to have  [specific number] people join us to observe this session?
  * If yes: Admit observers.
  * Then, ask the notetaker and observers to give a brief, camera-on introduction, like their first name and position with VA.gov.
  * Once complete, ask the notetaker and observers to turn off their cameras for the remainder of the session to save bandwidth
* In this session, we’ll ask you to use a test version of the website. This is a demo tool that may not function exactly the way you expect. Some areas of the prototype will be clickable, and some will not. Since it's a demo, none of your actions will affect your VA information or benefits.
* I’d like to ask your permission to record the screen and audio as we talk today? We use the recordings to confirm that we have captured your opinions accurately. After we complete the analysis, the recordings are deleted, and none of your comments would be attributed to you directly. Are you okay with me recording my screen and audio during this session?

**Start recording.**

* I have started recording. I'd like to confirm: Are you okay if I record my screen and the audio as we talk today? <br>
    *[Notes]*

## Warm-up Questions (Optional) - 5 minutes

Before we look at the website, let’s start with a few warm-up questions.

* Have you used VA.gov before?<br>
  *[Notes]*
  * *If yes*, could you briefly describe the last time you used it?<br>
  *[Notes]*
* Have you ever filed an application for disability compensation (Form 526-EZ) with the VA?<br>
  *[Notes]*
* Have you uploaded files using Va.gov or VA mobile app?<br>
  *[Notes]*

[Ask participant to share their screen]

[Share [prototype link](https://www.figma.com/proto/m1Xt8XjVDjZIbliCYcCKpE/Document-status-%28formerly-silent-failures%29?node-id=2771-20256&t=YQPL10Sibs5kZtpY-1) with participant]

## Part 1: Uploading a file successfully

### Part 1 A: CST Home Page - 5 minutes

**PROMPT**: Let's say you are signed into your VA.gov account and you're looking at this page. You submitted a claim a month ago, and you're logging in to check and see if there's been an update.

* Do you know what this page is? If yes, what is it?<br>
*[Notes]*
* Describe to me what you're seeing here.<br>
*[Notes]*
* Imagine you’re waiting for this top claim to be decided, and you want to upload evidence. What would you do?<br>
*[Notes]*

### Part 1 B: Status Page - 5 minutes

[Have the participant click "Details" on the in-progress claim]

* Tell me what you see here. (Prompt them to scroll up and down.)<br>
*[Notes]*
* Is there anything particularly useful?<br>
*[Notes]*
* Is there anything particularly confusing?<br>
*[Notes]*
* If you wanted to upload evidence to your claim, what would you do?<br>
*[Notes]*

### Part 1 C: Files Page - 10 minutes

[Participant clicks into the Files tab]

* Now tell me what you see here. (Prompt them to scroll up and down.)<br>
*[Notes]*
* Is there anything that is particularly useful about what you see here?<br>
*[Notes]*
* Is there anything that is particularly confusing about what you see here?<br>
*[Notes]*
* What steps would you take to add a file to your claim?<br>
*[Notes]*

### Part 1 D: Confirmation message for successful file upload - 10 minutes

[Participant completes the File upload]

* Now tell me what you see here.<br>
*[Notes]*
* How would you explain this message to a friend?<br>
*[Notes]*
* If we were not here, what would be your next step? (Prompt them to scroll up and down. If they haven't.)<br>
*[Notes]*
* What do you think this card is trying to communicate (referring to the submission in progress card)?<br>
*[Notes]*
* Can you describe the relationship between the confirmation message and the "submission in progress" card?<br>
*[Notes]*

**PROMPT:** Let's pause and imagine you come back later in the day to check on your uploaded.

[Click on the name "Hector" on the top-right hand corner of the page]

* If you wanted to check the status of the claim where would you click?<br>
*[Notes]*

[Click on "Details"] 
* Where would you go to check the progress your uploaded document?<br>
*[Notes]*

[Click on "Files tab"] 

* Describe what happened here? (Prompt them to scroll up and down. If they haven't.)<br>
*[Notes]*
* What would you do next?<br>
*[Notes]*

[Click on the “next button” to see the file has now be added to the e-folder]

* Describe what happened here?<br>
*[Notes]*
* What would you do next?<br>
*[Notes]*

## Part 2: Failure processing file (Type 2 Failure)

[Click on the name "Hector" on the top-right hand corner of the page]

### Part 2 A: Home page - Open tracked item - 5 minutes

**PROMPT**: Now, we're going to imagine that the VA has requested evidence from you.

* Tell me what you see here.<br>
*[Notes]*
* What do you think this alert is communicating?<br>
*[Notes]*
* Based on the text in this alert, when you upload your file, when do you expect the alert to disappear?<br>
*[Notes]*
* If you want to know more about this request, what would you do?<br>
*[Notes]*

### Part 2 B: Status page - Buddy statement request - 5 minutes

[Click on "Details"]

* Tell me what you see here.<br>
*[Notes]*
* Describe to me what this alert is communicating?<br>
*[Notes]*
* What stands out to you on this page?<br>
*[Notes]*
* If you wanted to learn more about the alert, what would you do?<br>
*[Notes]*

### Part 2 C: Request page - 5 minutes

[Click on the details]

* Describe what you’re seeing here. Remember to think aloud as you do.<br>
*[Notes]*
* In your own words, can you describe what is being communicated?<br>
*[Notes]*
* If you wanted to respond to this request what would you do?<br>
*[Notes]*

### Part 2 D: Confirmation for tracked item - 15 minutes

[Participant completes the File upload]

* Now tell me what you see here.<br>
*[Notes]*
* If we were not here, what would be your next step? (Prompt them to scroll up and down. If they haven't.)<br>
*[Notes]*

[Click on the alert, "Check the status of your document submission"]

**PROMPT**: Please scroll down to the "Documents" section. In this prototype, the page won’t scroll there automatically, but that’s the intended behavior in the final version.

* Is this what you expect to see?<br>
*[Notes]*
* What would you do next?<br>
*[Notes]*
  
⠀
## Part 2 E: Participant Logged out

**PROMPT**: Now we’re going to pause and imagine that you’ve logged off and 3 days later, you get an email notification on your device.

[Click on the name "Hector" on the top-right hand corner of the page]

**PROMPT**: Take a moment to review this page.

* What are you feeling when you see this?<br>
*[Notes]*
* In your own words, describe what is being communicated.<br>
*[Notes]*
* Why do you think you are receiving this email?<br>
*[Notes]*
* What would you do next?<br>
*[Notes]*
  
⠀
I want you to explore the available options as if you were on your own and viewing the actual page.

* Which option do you prefer and why?<br>
*[Notes]*

### Part 2 F: Return to VA.gov - 3 minutes

[Click on the "exit" button on the top-right hand corner of the page]

**PROMPT**: Now we’re logged back into the VA website to see your claim.
Without clicking anything, take a moment to review the page. Remember to think aloud as you scroll up and down.

* Tell me what you see here<br>
*[Notes]*
* If you want to know more about this alert, what would you do?<br>
*[Notes]*

### Part 2 G: Status page - Resubmit Error - 10 minutes

* Tell me what you see.<br>
*[Notes]*
* Describe what you think this alert is telling you.<br>
*[Notes]*
* What do you think is the relationship between what you're seeing here and what you saw in your email?<br>
*[Notes]*
  * [If needed for reference click the “reference email” button]
  * [Click the email logo to return to previous screen]
* What do you expect to happen if you click the "X" button on the alert?
*[Notes]*
* If you sign out and then sign back in a few days later, would you expect to see anything related to this alert?<br>
*[Notes]*
* What would you do next?<br>
*[Notes]*

#### If they say click on the files page

* What are you expecting to see here? (prompt them to scroll down)<br>
*[Notes]*
* Looking at this card, can you describe what's being communicated?<br>
*[Notes]*
* If you wanted to resubmit your documents what would you do?<br>
*[Notes]*
* [click the CTA to resubmit documents]
⠀
#### If they chose learn how to resubmit document

* [click the CTA to resubmit documents]

### Part 2 H: Resubmit notice page - 10 minutes
Without clicking anything, take a moment to review the page. Remember to think aloud as you scroll up and down.

* Tell me what you see?<br>
*[Notes]*
* What do you think is the relationship between what you're seeing here and what you saw in your email?<br>
*[Notes]*
  * [If needed for reference click the “reference email” button]
  * [Click the email logo to return to previous screen]
* What do you think will happen after you submit your document using one of these options?<br>
*[Notes]*

⠀
## Post-Task Interview - 5 minutes

* Overall, what did you think of what you saw today? Was it clear or confusing?<br>
*[Notes]*
* Was there anything helpful?<br>
*[Notes]*
* On a scale of 1-5, how confident do you feel about being able to resubmit your document if you received a notice like this in real life? (1 being least confident, 5 being most confident.)<br>
*[Notes]*
* On a scale of 1-5, how confident do you feel VA will effectively manage your paper documents you've submitted? (1 being least confident, 5 being most confident.)<br>
*[Notes]*
  * Why?<br>
  *[Notes]*
* Any questions for me?<br>
*[Notes]*
  
## Thank-You and Closing - 1 minute

Thank you for sharing your thoughts with us today. Your feedback was greatly appreciated as we work to improve the site for Veterans.

Perigean will send you a thank you note with a brief message to share with other Veterans who might want to participate in future research.

Thanks again, and have a great day!

## Emergency Exit

[In the rare case of an emergency during a session, be prepared with an [emergency exit strategy](https://depo-platform-documentation.scrollhelp.site/research-design/Research-Safety-and-Emergency-Exit-Strategies.2143649793.html#ResearchSafetyandEmergencyExitStrategies-Sampleexitstrategies). Plan to include here at least one option, so its easy to find during a session. Take some time to practice so it feels more comfortable.]
