# TEMPLATE

## Intro - 5 minutes

Thanks for joining us today! My name is [Gary/Skyler], and I'm going to be guiding you through the session today. I'm on a team that works with the VA on the VA.gov website. Today we're going to tal k about disability compensation claims and the Claim Status Tool.

Before we start, I have a few things that I want to go over with you:

* This entire session should take about 60 minutes. I want to be sure to end on time, so I may occasionally prompt you with the next question or topic.
* In this session, we want to hear your honest opinions. There are no right or wrong answers; we are not testing your knowledge or abilities. I welcome any and all of your feedback, and I won't be offended by any opinions you express.
* Your participation in this interview is completely voluntary. If you would like to stop the session or do not want to answer a question for any reason at any time, that's no problem. Please let me know.
* I want you to know that although I work on the VA.gov website, I have no access to your records or benefits, nor do I have the ability to change your claims or benefits in any way. I am not a specialist in benefits. My primary focus is to understand your experience with the website.
* The people from Perigean who invited you to participate in this interview asked if it was alright to allow people to observe this interview, but I want to double-check with you before we get going. Is it okay with you to have  [specific number] people join us to observe this session?
  * If yes: Admit observers.
  * Then, ask the notetaker and observers to give a brief, camera-on introduction, like their first name and position with VA.gov.
  * Once complete, ask the notetaker and observers to turn off their cameras for the remainder of the session to save bandwidth
* In this session, we’ll ask you to use a test version of the website. This is a demo tool that may not function exactly the way you expect. Some areas of the prototype will be clickable, and some will not. Since it's a demo, none of your actions will affect your VA information or benefits.
* I’d like to ask your permission to record the screen and audio as we talk today? We use the recordings to confirm that we have captured your opinions accurately. After we complete the analysis, the recordings are deleted, and none of your comments would be attributed to you directly. Are you okay with me recording my screen and audio during this session?

**Start recording.**

* I have started recording. I'd like to confirm: Are you okay if I record my screen and the audio as we talk today? <br>
    I am

## Warm-up Questions (Optional) - 5 minutes

Before we look at the website, let’s start with a few warm-up questions.

* Have you used VA.gov before?<br>
  Yes I have
  * *If yes*, could you briefly describe the last time you used it?<br>
  I actually just used it a few days ago to confirm education benefits for my sons
* Have you ever filed an application for disability compensation (Form 526-EZ) with the VA?<br>
  I have
* Have you uploaded files using Va.gov or VA mobile app?<br>
  Just the VA.gov site

[Ask participant to share their screen]

[Share [prototype link](https://www.figma.com/proto/m1Xt8XjVDjZIbliCYcCKpE/Document-status-%28formerly-silent-failures%29?node-id=2771-20256&t=YQPL10Sibs5kZtpY-1) with participant]

## Part 1: Uploading a file successfully

### Part 1 A: CST Home Page - 5 minutes

**PROMPT**: Let's say you are signed into your VA.gov account and you're looking at this page. You submitted a claim a month ago, and you're logging in to check and see if there's been an update.

* Do you know what this page is? If yes, what is it?<br>
YesIt's where you would go to see what claims you have submitted and basically what stage of the approval process they're at, I also believe you can go to see what has already been approved previously
* Describe to me what you're seeing here.<br>

I mean the first thing that catches mya ttention is that you're able to check your claim decision review or apppeal status, and then there's some additional links to review those claims see what additional services there are, what happens if you don't see your appeal and the window that reflects the most recenet claim that you submitted.
* Imagine you’re waiting for this top claim to be decided, and you want to upload evidence. What would you do?<br>
I would go to your claims and there would be an option to add a claim or submit a claim. I would click on the "Details" and then I would imgagine there's another option to be able to edit this claim or attach documentation or evidence to help with getting the claim approved

### Part 1 B: Status Page - 5 minutes

[Have the participant click "Details" on the in-progress claim]

* Tell me what you see here. (Prompt them to scroll up and down.)<br>
It shows what I've claimed, the status of overall the claim itself, I guess I wasn't assuming that it would show like each individual one but it's just showing that because I've submitted a claim for these three ailments, this claim is in progress. It shows me Files I've submitted to support this claim and there's an Overview which I imagine shows the status and files all together.
* Is there anything particularly useful?<br>
I think the recent activity is useful, I know when I was in the process of retiring and going through the disability process I felt inclined to constantly check the status of that claim. Initially I had assistance with the VA rep and following that initial assistance I had to do it myself. When I had appointments I had to reference ailments, for a few I had to go to previous reports and things of that nature...a few times I had to provide proof so I would submit report for that year. This is helpful because I can go to the Files I can already see what I've already submitted to sort of justify what I just mentioned.
* Is there anything particularly confusing?<br>
Um it seems like a lot of information, if to me like where it says "In progress" but also shows most recent activity. I always felt like these pages had like too much information, personally I think if it'd say "Claim status" "What we're doing" and "Recent activity" it'd be less fill. If it was more streamlined that would be much simpler. 
* If you wanted to upload evidence to your claim, what would you do?<br>
I believe I'd click on this Files tab and there'd be an option for me to upload, which I remember doing previously and I'd find wherever I'd saved the document. It's been a while since I uploaded additional information but I believe that's how that worked. 

### Part 1 C: Files Page - 10 minutes

[Participant clicks into the Files tab]

* Now tell me what you see here. (Prompt them to scroll up and down.)<br>
It's very much the same as the status page but instead of reflecting the status it reflects files that have been received. I can see what those files are, if it's been reviewed
* Is there anything that is particularly useful about what you see here?<br>
Yeah I think the most useful piece is being able to see what documents you have submitted and when they were reviewed. I don't remember seeing, I retired in 2020, I don't remember seeing an update like this "Reviewed by VA" that's very useful it allows you to confirm that what you submitted actually was reviewed. So sort of following along with what you submitted and what was reviewed is very helpful. 
* Is there anything that is particularly confusing about what you see here?<br>
Not necessarily confusing but there's a lot of information on this page...most service members would want to go right to what you want to do, streamline the process and make it as straightforward as possible. If it showed why you would submit here, the optino to upload the documents that would be perfect. 
* What steps would you take to add a file to your claim?<br>
I would click on upload file...looks like I want to upload the file I would confirm what file I'm uploading, I'm not sure if I'm thinking of USAJobs or this site but I thought previously I would just upload it and label it to clearly describe what type of document it was but here...there's a variety of different options here. So let's say I was providing that annual report I would click "Military Personnel Records" 

### Part 1 D: Confirmation message for successful file upload - 10 minutes

[Participant completes the File upload]

* Now tell me what you see here.<br>
So now that I've submitted it it shows that the document's been submitted the dates, it gives some instructions that it can take up to two days to recieve your documents, then it shows that the submission that I just did is in progress, what that document is, and then again it reflects the previous documents I've submitted as well.
* How would you explain this message to a friend?<br>
Once they attached a file, chose what type of document it was, and submit it, they would get a popup confirming that the submission was successful and the date that it was uploaded. 
* If we were not here, what would be your next step? (Prompt them to scroll up and down. If they haven't.)<br>
I'd put it on my phone or something that I submitted on (this date) and if that was the only file that I had to submit, I would just leave the page at this point
* Is this what you would expect to see?<br>
No, I already saw this in the (alert). This feels extra and it already showed that it was submitted up here (the alert). 
* What do you think this card is trying to communicate (referring to the submission in progress card)?<br>
Um that the 214 that I just uploaded the submission itself is in progress. Again it says up here (alert) that it can take up to two days for us to receive your document. So it just repeats what you've already seen up top. 
* Can you describe the relationship between the confirmation message and the "submission in progress" card?<br>
I think it's the same exact thing, I don't think there's any difference in the relationship. I guess this would coincide with the previous documents that have been uploaded. So this would reflect what it's been once it's been reviewed. But why reflect that...once a decision has been made just reflect that down here. Don't need to have it reflect now.

**PROMPT:** Let's pause and imagine you come back later in the day to check on your uploaded.

[Click on the name "Hector" on the top-right hand corner of the page]

* If you wanted to check the status of the claim where would you click?<br>
I don't think I'd have to click anywhere, and it looks like when you click here it just brings you down here anyway. Click on "details"

[Click on "Details"] 
* Where would you go to check the progress your uploaded document?<br>
To me it shows the progress of it (looking at Recent Activity) so I don't think I would need to go somewhere else since I can already see the progress here. But I guess maybe "Overview of the process" if that's show something additional.

[Click on "Files tab"] 

* Describe what happened here? (Prompt them to scroll up and down. If they haven't.)<br>
It shows all of the documents that you've submitted, the date that they're received, and what the current status is. So I guess it shows all of the documents that you have submitted for disability comp and either the date it was received and what the status of it is. 
* What do you think happened now that it's sitting in this section?<br>
I think that it was...like it mentioned earlier it could take 2 days to receive it. It shows that it was received and it clearly shows that. It was received but it doesn't mean that it was reviewed and that a decision was made on it. It just shows that what you submitted is now part of the evidence gathering process.
* Some of these have status and some don't, how would you describe the differences between these statuses?<br>
This veteran letter for instance may be justifying hey I did this and I was at this location and here's one of my wingmen's statements confirming that I did this and that's being reviewed by whoever, and this evidence form that's being reviewed but it doesn't necessarily show if it's something that finalizes your decision...to me it doesn't show...it shows that you submitted it, it's in review, so I guess all of these documents now have to be reviewed. The Buddy Statement may be more of a justification...to support the claim itself. 
* What would you do next?<br>
If the document was confirmed and a few days later I want to check the status, I would go back to the original claims page, check the status or I could check now, where in the queue the files are and just see what the status reflects. But again, for me personally, I think most Veterans and when I've talked to those who have disability claims, they really just check the status and so it says...not necessarily approved but...we only check to see if it's been given a percentage. You already know it's in progress, really the objective for each Veteran submitting a claim is just to see if they've been awarded a percentage for that ailment. If you don't have a percentage than obviously it's still in the works. 

[Click on the “next button” to see the file has now be added to the e-folder]

* Describe what happened here?<br>
*[Notes]*
* What would you do next?<br>
*[Notes]*

## Part 2: Failure processing file (Type 2 Failure)

[Click on the name "Hector" on the top-right hand corner of the page]

### Part 2 A: Home page - Open tracked item - 5 minutes

**PROMPT**: Now, we're going to imagine that the VA has requested evidence from you.

* Tell me what you see here.<br>
I see you know that this page is for me to check my VA claim, decision review or appeals, the different sections that make up the page...go down and see that this claim for compensation is in progress, that I was sent a development letter, and that it was moved to Step 3...that they requested more information from me. I'm assuming it would reflect what they're requesting and I would also probably expect a letter stating the same. And for previously claims what the status of those was as well.
* What do you think this alert is communicating?<br>
That essentially to move forward I would have to submit the additional information. It's basically on hold until I submit what they're requesting.
* Based on the text in this alert, when you upload your file, when do you expect the alert to disappear?<br>
Once the confirmation is received so I submit it and it may say the same thing as before, but once it's actually received by the VA it'll go away.
* If you want to know more about this request, what would you do?<br>
I would go to details and it allows me to see that ...

### Part 2 B: Status page - Buddy statement request - 5 minutes

[Click on "Details"]

* Tell me what you see here.<br>
It's in progress, (reading alert), it looks like I would need to provide authorization to disclose my personal information before they can go on.
* Describe to me what this alert is communicating?<br>
It's communicating that I'm required to use a VA form 21-4142 that would give permission to obtain my personal information from a doctor or hospital that's not the VA.
* What stands out to you on this page?<br>
What I need to submit, so saying that I'd need to submit the 21-4142 is important. 
* If you wanted to learn more about the alert, what would you do?<br>
I would click on Details

### Part 2 C: Request page - 5 minutes

[Click on the details]

* Describe what you’re seeing here. Remember to think aloud as you do.<br>
It's telling me what the form is, and examples of what information they may be obtaining from the doctor or hospital. This is important, where I can go to actually get the form. And it says that they sent me a letter informing me the same thing that the web page shows me. 
* In your own words, can you describe what is being communicated?<br>
In order for my claim to move forwards, I need to submit a 21-4142 which gives them permission to obtain what's necessary. And it tells me where I can go to submit for individuals who don't use a computer that often. And it tells me the deadline to submit the 21-4142. 
* If you wanted to respond to this request what would you do?<br>
I would go back to the ... oh it looks like they make it easy for you. If I didn't scroll all the way down, I would probably go back, but right here it makes it easy where you can submit. 

### Part 2 D: Confirmation for tracked item - 15 minutes

[Participant completes the File upload]

* Now tell me what you see here.<br>
It shows that again it's been submitted on teh 19th, it could take up to two days to receive it,and when it is received I can go down here (Documents received) to find the status.
* Now tell me what you see here.<br> 
* If we were not here, what would be your next step? (Prompt them to scroll up and down. If they haven't.)<br>
Once I saw that it was submitted I would just leave the page. I know that what I needed to submit has been completed and that it'll take two days to be received. So maybe in two days I'll check back. I'd just leave the page if I have nothing else to submit.

[Click on the alert, "Check the status of your document submission"]

**PROMPT**: Please scroll down to the "Documents" section. In this prototype, the page won’t scroll there automatically, but that’s the intended behavior in the final version.

* Is this what you expect to see?<br>
*[Notes]*
* What would you do next?<br>
*[Notes]*
  
⠀
## Part 2 E: Participant Logged out

**PROMPT**: Now we’re going to pause and imagine that you’ve logged off and 3 days later, you get an email notification on your device.

[Click on the name "Hector" on the top-right hand corner of the page]

**PROMPT**: Take a moment to review this page.

* What are you feeling when you see this?<br>
I think most Veterans would feel disappointed, because you're kind of relying on the VA to process your claims as quickly as possible, so knowing that it can't be processed. So it looks like I would need to resubmit by mail or in person. If I get this email in, let's say it's referring to a docoument that I'm not familiar with it's saying that I can call the VA to get more information.
* In your own words, describe what is being communicated.<br>
*[Notes]*
* Why do you think you are receiving this email?<br>
*[Notes]*
* What would you do next?<br>

  
⠀
I want you to explore the available options as if you were on your own and viewing the actual page.

* Which option do you prefer and why?<br>
I would prefer Option 2 because I wouldn't want to write my SSN on a document and put it in the mail. I'd rather hand carry it to the officials myself. 

### Part 2 F: Return to VA.gov - 3 minutes

[Click on the "exit" button on the top-right hand corner of the page]

**PROMPT**: Now we’re logged back into the VA website to see your claim.
Without clicking anything, take a moment to review the page. Remember to think aloud as you scroll up and down.

* Tell me what you see here<br>
It just reflects that the document that needs to be resubmitted, the overall status of that piece of the claim, it also reflects. The status of the claim also reflects that I need to resubmit the document.
* If you want to know more about this alert, what would you do?<br>
I would click on Details. 

### Part 2 G: Status page - Resubmit Error - 10 minutes

* Tell me what you see.<br>
This sort of background and border also reflected on the first page that said "we need you to resubmit documentation" so I would know this is probably going to explain to me what we need you to resubmit. Same information here reflects what I saw in the email earlier.
* Describe what you think this alert is telling you.<br>
*[Notes]*
* What do you think is the relationship between what you're seeing here and what you saw in your email?<br>
It's just notifying me in multiple different methods that I need to resubmit this 21-4142. 
  * [If needed for reference click the “reference email” button]
  * [Click the email logo to return to previous screen]
* What do you expect to happen if you click the "X" button on the alert?
I would expect this big box itself to probably go away, and it would reflect in the Recent Activity that I need to resubmit the document.
* If you sign out and then sign back in a few days later, would you expect to see anything related to this alert?<br>
Uh, I guess, my personal thoughts are no I would not expect to see it again because I've already acknowledged that I know I need to resubmit by xing out of here, but knowing the VA I'd probably need to do it every time I log in.
* What would you do next?<br>
I would x out and I would print the form and I would bring it down to the VA. Not everyone has a VA close to them luckily I do because I'm in the DC region. I would print it and I would bring it in person. I wouldn't personally put my SSN on it until I got to the office and verify that that's where it needed to be.

#### If they say click on the files page

* What are you expecting to see here? (prompt them to scroll down)<br>
*[Notes]*
* Looking at this card, can you describe what's being communicated?<br>
*[Notes]*
* If you wanted to resubmit your documents what would you do?<br>
*[Notes]*
* [click the CTA to resubmit documents]
⠀
#### If they chose learn how to resubmit document

* [click the CTA to resubmit documents]

### Part 2 H: Resubmit notice page - 10 minutes
Without clicking anything, take a moment to review the page. Remember to think aloud as you scroll up and down.

* Tell me what you see?<br>
Yeah it's the same information from the email. So again, maybe if you're not checking your email but you're only checking information from the VA site. 
* What do you think is the relationship between what you're seeing here and what you saw in your email?<br>
*[Notes]*
  * [If needed for reference click the “reference email” button]
  * [Click the email logo to return to previous screen]
* What do you think will happen after you submit your document using one of these options?<br>
I think bringing it in in person would make the review process much quicker. At some point whether you send it by mail or in person if you check the status it should...reflect that they actually have the document that they need.
* After seeing the email, do you not think you would need to see this again?
I don't think I would need to see this page again, given that I've already "x"-ed out of the notification. Wherever you x out, where you confirm to the system...
* How likely are you to re-upload versus bring it in in person?
It doesn't say re-upload, so I would bring it in in person.

⠀
## Post-Task Interview - 5 minutes

* Overall, what did you think of what you saw today? Was it clear or confusing?<br>
Again personally...it's clear it's plain English and pretty easy to follow, not necessarily that it's confusing just that there's a lot of excess information. Every page had the same information in addition to what you're actually trying to do. Not necessarily confusing, just too much information, but it's easy to follow for sure.
* Was there anything helpful?<br>
There are a variety of different ways to, on each page, there are multiple links and information sources that tell you what you need to do and where you need to do it so while I think it's excess information others might find it helpful.
* On a scale of 1-5, how confident do you feel about being able to resubmit your document if you received a notice like this in real life? (1 being least confident, 5 being most confident.)<br>
5 - just because it's very...every step is very descriptive. You have all the information you need. Never did I feel like one of my questions or concerns wasn't answered by following along with the process.
* On a scale of 1-5, how confident do you feel VA will effectively manage your paper documents you've submitted? (1 being least confident, 5 being most confident.)<br>
I think they will effectively...they see so many Veterans and I haven't personally had any issues with previous documentation that I've submitted. So I think I'm pretty confident in them being able to maintain those documents. 4. You always hear those few individuals who say they sent something to VA and they lost everything. I would say 5 because I haven't had those issues personally.
  * Why?<br>
  *[Notes]*
* Any questions for me?<br>
*[Notes]*
  
## Thank-You and Closing - 1 minute

Thank you for sharing your thoughts with us today. Your feedback was greatly appreciated as we work to improve the site for Veterans.

Perigean will send you a thank you note with a brief message to share with other Veterans who might want to participate in future research.

Thanks again, and have a great day!

## Emergency Exit

[In the rare case of an emergency during a session, be prepared with an [emergency exit strategy](https://depo-platform-documentation.scrollhelp.site/research-design/Research-Safety-and-Emergency-Exit-Strategies.2143649793.html#ResearchSafetyandEmergencyExitStrategies-Sampleexitstrategies). Plan to include here at least one option, so its easy to find during a session. Take some time to practice so it feels more comfortable.]
