# P6

## Intro - 5 minutes

Thanks for joining us today! My name is [Gary/Skyler], and I'm going to be guiding you through the session today. I'm on a team that works with the VA on the VA.gov website. Today we're going to tal k about disability compensation claims and the Claim Status Tool.

Before we start, I have a few things that I want to go over with you:

* This entire session should take about 60 minutes. I want to be sure to end on time, so I may occasionally prompt you with the next question or topic.
* In this session, we want to hear your honest opinions. There are no right or wrong answers; we are not testing your knowledge or abilities. I welcome any and all of your feedback, and I won't be offended by any opinions you express.
* Your participation in this interview is completely voluntary. If you would like to stop the session or do not want to answer a question for any reason at any time, that's no problem. Please let me know.
* I want you to know that although I work on the VA.gov website, I have no access to your records or benefits, nor do I have the ability to change your claims or benefits in any way. I am not a specialist in benefits. My primary focus is to understand your experience with the website.
* The people from Perigean who invited you to participate in this interview asked if it was alright to allow people to observe this interview, but I want to double-check with you before we get going. Is it okay with you to have  [specific number] people join us to observe this session?
  * If yes: Admit observers.
  * Then, ask the notetaker and observers to give a brief, camera-on introduction, like their first name and position with VA.gov.
  * Once complete, ask the notetaker and observers to turn off their cameras for the remainder of the session to save bandwidth
* In this session, we’ll ask you to use a test version of the website. This is a demo tool that may not function exactly the way you expect. Some areas of the prototype will be clickable, and some will not. Since it's a demo, none of your actions will affect your VA information or benefits.
* I’d like to ask your permission to record the screen and audio as we talk today? We use the recordings to confirm that we have captured your opinions accurately. After we complete the analysis, the recordings are deleted, and none of your comments would be attributed to you directly. Are you okay with me recording my screen and audio during this session?

**Start recording.**

* I have started recording. I'd like to confirm: Are you okay if I record my screen and the audio as we talk today? <br>
    Yes

## Warm-up Questions (Optional) - 5 minutes

Before we look at the website, let’s start with a few warm-up questions.

* Have you used VA.gov before?<br>
  Yes, about 3 hours ago
  * *If yes*, could you briefly describe the last time you used it?<br>
  
* Have you ever filed an application for disability compensation (Form 526-EZ) with the VA?<br>
  Yes I have
* Have you uploaded files using Va.gov or VA mobile app?<br>
  Yes

[Ask participant to share their screen]

[Share [prototype link](https://www.figma.com/proto/m1Xt8XjVDjZIbliCYcCKpE/Document-status-%28formerly-silent-failures%29?node-id=2771-20256&t=YQPL10Sibs5kZtpY-1) with participant]

## Part 1: Uploading a file successfully

### Part 1 A: CST Home Page - 5 minutes

**PROMPT**: Let's say you are signed into your VA.gov account and you're looking at this page. You submitted a claim a month ago, and you're logging in to check and see if there's been an update.

* Do you know what this page is? If yes, what is it?<br>
Yes sir - 
* Describe to me what you're seeing here.<br>
It gives you the status of your submissions and where they are as far as are they new submission, are they in review, what's the next step in the process, and when you click in the drill downs it actually gives you informatino about what's going to happen next. And then you realize there are millions and millions of veterans and you're not the only one...and bureacracy is real (laughs). 
* Imagine you’re waiting for this top claim to be decided, and you want to upload evidence. What would you do?<br>
I would click into the claim I would click on supporting documents or whatever, I would scan them into my computer, and upload them. (WHat about from here?) I would click on Details and from Details I'd have other options.

### Part 1 B: Status Page - 5 minutes

[Have the participant click "Details" on the in-progress claim]

* Tell me what you see here. (Prompt them to scroll up and down.)<br>
As far as claim status? It says here's the latest information. It'll say that the claim is in progress. It'll give me the date of the last update. It'll tell me what I need to do, which is basically sit and wait, don't call them.

In Recent Activity it'll give the date and what it's moved to, so you can actually go up and down and see the dates and when it's moved and what it's moved to...and then it'll just stop. And that's where the claimant's anxiety comes in, and that's where if they're doing their part as the claimant they're reading and understanding the process and their part in the process, and that part even though it's not the most satisfying...while maybe it's not hte thing that you want to hear, it's definitely the information that you should receive.
* Is there anything particularly useful?<br>
The chronology of the dates. The steps of the process of where your claim is, and the informatino as to what to expect and what to do. And what you've actually claimed. So it's useful information, it's definitely it's giving you the claims you've done and puts them all into one claim and it's showing you where teh claim is in the process, so I like the information I like the layout.
* Is there anything particularly confusing?<br>
No...and I love the way...it doesn't allow for users to get ahead of their skis. It only allows you so much control and then at that point you're going to have to defer to people who are going to have to disseminate what you did in your file. I like that you can observe until when you file your claim to whenever, but I also like that they don't allow you to edit documents once they've been uploaded...most people don't understand that it'll actually slow down the process. Adding documents is one thing, but editing is another. One of the drill down on what to expect actually says "Every submission will actually slow down your claim" 
* If you wanted to upload evidence to your claim, what would you do?<br>
It's easy, go to Files. Upload File I usually keep them on my desktop or my C drive. I would upload those files, I would wait for the...antivirus. Hopefully my files don't have any crap in them so they can get accepted. And once they get accepted, it should be out of your hands at that point...but you always have that person who may try to upload more documents, slowing down their process.

### Part 1 C: Files Page - 10 minutes

[Participant clicks into the Files tab]

* Now tell me what you see here. (Prompt them to scroll up and down.)<br>
*[Notes]*
* Is there anything that is particularly useful about what you see here?<br>
Very useful, the information is straightforward. It takes the thinking out of it to some degree, so you don't have to mess up so much. I like the layout, and everything has an explanation written into it. 
* Is there anything that is particularly confusing about what you see here?<br>
No
* What steps would you take to add a file to your claim?<br>
I would go to Upload file, and then it should pull me back to my file selections, I would choose that file, make sure it's within the ... do you guys have a ... (file size) .... I'd make sure the file is smaller than that, attach that file, upload that file, select what type of document I have with that. 

### Part 1 D: Confirmation message for successful file upload - 10 minutes

[Participant completes the File upload]

* How would you explain this message to a friend?<br>
Very clear. It says that the upload was successful which is good news. It actually gave the date and the time so that we have reference. It's definitely useful ... when you're submitting documents and you're in real time it's actually a good thing to see that the status was successful.

It's telling me what I've claimed. It's telling me if I want to upload any additional evidence...on the Veteran side we know that you want to have a fully developed claim, you don't want to go back and forth slowing down the process. But it is good to have that because if the unforseeable happens you'd have that option.
* If we were not here, what would be your next step? (Prompt them to scroll up and down. If they haven't.)<br>
After I uploaded the files I would hit submit files for review, once I've hit that that would conclude that claim submission. Now of course we do have recourse where we can add extra documents but like I said that's a big time suck. And it'll show me which files I've submitted with the labels I've submitted them under. Looking at the status of submission tells you if you've submitted properly or if you've messed up.

After I have submitted the files...(looking at submission in progress card)...I'm pretty much done. Once you submit and review...that's it! I'm done.
* What do you think this card is trying to communicate (referring to the submission in progress card)?<br>
That's just letting me know that if I don't see a status as far as them reading it or anything like that, this is the delay in the upload.

It's actually saying there's a new document, document type - I'm familiar with teh DD214 - it's telling me that it's a new document, the document type, and when it's submitted. And from the earlier submission successsful it directly correlates to the successful submission that I did earlier. 
* Can you describe the relationship between the confirmation message and the "submission in progress" card?<br>

**PROMPT:** Let's pause and imagine you come back later in the day to check on your uploaded.

[Click on the name "Hector" on the top-right hand corner of the page]

* If you wanted to check the status of the claim where would you click?<br>
I would go to MyVA then check your claims and appeals, then I would go down to the...usually the one on top is the latest submission, and that could be verified by me knowing that I just submitted it yesterday or whatever...looking at the steps and it would be on Step 3 so I would be kinda sad but I would know that this is just the beginning of the process and we can't rush anything. 

[Click on "Details"] 
* Where would you go to check the progress your uploaded document?<br>
I would go right under the Claim Status and it says "here's the latest information on your claim" and it would tell me what I need to do, which is nothing, so sit back and wait for the wheels of bureacracy to keep turning. 

[Click on "Files tab"] 

* Describe what happened here? (Prompt them to scroll up and down. If they haven't.)<br>
It says "New supporting document...PDF..."it turned it into a PDF. It says what this document was submitted for, and the date that it was received. The next letter is a buddy document I believe. And it's saying that they requested it, and it's actually saying when they received it...so it's not showing the actual date that the request is.

This is the file that we uploaded. To me this is explaining what you sent, what the document is, it doesn't look like it really changed it, it's just saying that we received it. So if I'm reading this I'm reading this that we received it and what type of document it was. So even though 

* What would you do next?<br>
*[Notes]*

[Click on the “next button” to see the file has now be added to the e-folder]

* Describe what happened here?<br>
*[Notes]*
* What would you do next?<br>
*[Notes]*

## Part 2: Failure processing file (Type 2 Failure)

[Click on the name "Hector" on the top-right hand corner of the page]

### Part 2 A: Home page - Open tracked item - 5 minutes

**PROMPT**: Now, we're going to imagine that the VA has requested evidence from you.

* What do you think this alert is communicating?<br>
*[Notes]*
* Based on the text in this alert, when you upload your file, when do you expect the alert to disappear?<br>
That's a weird one because it should acknowledge that the document was received...but until they verify that that's the actual document, it may say "In review" - that whole thing will be in review until they can actually look at that document it will remain in review. So I'm looking for a popup that will say they're receiving the document but I will expect it to go away also.
* If you want to know more about this request, what would you do?<br>
*[Notes]*

### Part 2 B: Status page - Buddy statement request - 5 minutes

[Click on "Details"]

* Describe to me what this alert is communicating?<br>
I need to give a disclosure sign off on, if I click Details it will probably prompt me to tha form area or an area where I can pick that form, or it'll give me more details on what I should be doing next.

 
* What stands out to you on this page?<br>
*[Notes]*
* If you wanted to learn more about the alert, what would you do?<br>
*[Notes]*

### Part 2 C: Request page - 5 minutes

[Click on the details]

* Describe what you’re seeing here. Remember to think aloud as you do.<br>
*[Notes]*
* In your own words, can you describe what is being communicated?<br>
*[Notes]*
* If you wanted to respond to this request what would you do?<br>
*[Notes]*

### Part 2 D: Confirmation for tracked item - 15 minutes

[Participant completes the File upload]

* If we were not here, what would be your next step? (Prompt them to scroll up and down. If they haven't.)<br>
*[Notes]*

[Click on the alert, "Check the status of your document submission"]

**PROMPT**: Please scroll down to the "Documents" section. In this prototype, the page won’t scroll there automatically, but that’s the intended behavior in the final version.

* Is this what you expect to see?<br>
*[Notes]*
* What would you do next?<br>
*[Notes]*
  
⠀
## Part 2 E: Participant Logged out

**PROMPT**: Now we’re going to pause and imagine that you’ve logged off and 3 days later, you get an email notification on your device.

[Click on the name "Hector" on the top-right hand corner of the page]

**PROMPT**: Take a moment to review this page.

* What are you feeling when you see this?<br>
*[Notes]*
* In your own words, describe what is being communicated.<br>
*[Notes]*
* Why do you think you are receiving this email?<br>
*[Notes]*
* What would you do next?<br>
*[Notes]*
  
⠀
I want you to explore the available options as if you were on your own and viewing the actual page.

* Which option do you prefer and why?<br>
*[Notes]*

### Part 2 F: Return to VA.gov - 3 minutes

[Click on the "exit" button on the top-right hand corner of the page]

**PROMPT**: Now we’re logged back into the VA website to see your claim.
Without clicking anything, take a moment to review the page. Remember to think aloud as you scroll up and down.

* If you want to know more about this alert, what would you do?<br>
*[Notes]*

### Part 2 G: Status page - Resubmit Error - 10 minutes

* Describe what you think this alert is telling you.<br>
*[Notes]*
* What do you think is the relationship between what you're seeing here and what you saw in your email?<br>
*[Notes]*
  * [If needed for reference click the “reference email” button]
  * [Click the email logo to return to previous screen]
* What do you expect to happen if you click the "X" button on the alert?
*[Notes]*
* If you sign out and then sign back in a few days later, would you expect to see anything related to this alert?<br>
*[Notes]*
* What would you do next?<br>
*[Notes]*

#### If they say click on the files page

* What are you expecting to see here? (prompt them to scroll down)<br>
*[Notes]*
* Looking at this card, can you describe what's being communicated?<br>
*[Notes]*
* If you wanted to resubmit your documents what would you do?<br>
*[Notes]*
* [click the CTA to resubmit documents]
⠀
#### If they chose learn how to resubmit document

* [click the CTA to resubmit documents]

### Part 2 H: Resubmit notice page - 10 minutes
Without clicking anything, take a moment to review the page. Remember to think aloud as you scroll up and down.

* What do you think is the relationship between what you're seeing here and what you saw in your email?<br>
*[Notes]*
  * [If needed for reference click the “reference email” button]
  * [Click the email logo to return to previous screen]
* What do you think will happen after you submit your document using one of these options?<br>
*[Notes]*

⠀
## Post-Task Interview - 5 minutes

* Overall, what did you think of what you saw today? Was it clear or confusing?<br>
*[Notes]*
* Was there anything helpful?<br>
*[Notes]*
* On a scale of 1-5, how confident do you feel about being able to resubmit your document if you received a notice like this in real life? (1 being least confident, 5 being most confident.)<br>
*[Notes]*
* On a scale of 1-5, how confident do you feel VA will effectively manage your paper documents you've submitted? (1 being least confident, 5 being most confident.)<br>
*[Notes]*
  * Why?<br>
  *[Notes]*
* Any questions for me?<br>
*[Notes]*
  
## Thank-You and Closing - 1 minute

Thank you for sharing your thoughts with us today. Your feedback was greatly appreciated as we work to improve the site for Veterans.

Perigean will send you a thank you note with a brief message to share with other Veterans who might want to participate in future research.

Thanks again, and have a great day!

## Emergency Exit

[In the rare case of an emergency during a session, be prepared with an [emergency exit strategy](https://depo-platform-documentation.scrollhelp.site/research-design/Research-Safety-and-Emergency-Exit-Strategies.2143649793.html#ResearchSafetyandEmergencyExitStrategies-Sampleexitstrategies). Plan to include here at least one option, so its easy to find during a session. Take some time to practice so it feels more comfortable.]
