# P8

## Warm-up Questions (Optional) - 5 minutes

Before we look at the website, let’s start with a few warm-up questions.

* Have you used VA.gov before?
> Yes. The last time was just on the 21st I filed a supplemental claim
* Have you ever filed an application for disability compensation (Form 526-EZ) with the VA?
> Yes

* Have you uploaded files using Va.gov or VA mobile app?
> Both

## Part 1: Uploading a file successfully

### Part 1 A: CST Home Page - 5 minutes

**PROMPT**: Let's say you are signed into your VA.gov account and you're looking at this page. You submitted a claim a month ago, and you're logging in to check and see if there's been an update.

* Do you know what this page is? If yes, what is it?
> Yes. It is the VA.gov and it is the claims page. This would be the Details of the claim, which would tell me what did I put the claim in for.

* Imagine you’re waiting for this top claim to be decided, and you want to upload evidence. What would you do?
> More evidence? The first thing I would do is go to Details just to take a look.

#### Things to watch for:

* Does the participant recognize the Claim Status Tool?
* Do they recognize which claim is in progress?

### Part 1 B: Status Page - 5 minutes

[Have the participant click "Details" on the in-progress claim]

* Tell me what you see here. (Prompt them to scroll up and down.)
> So it tells me that I submitted a claim for (contentions). It tells me that my claim is in progress. The next thing I would probably do is go to "Overview of process" ... hold on give me one second...if I wanted to upload new information I probably would go to Files right here.

* Is there anything particularly useful?
> Yes it lets me know when they received my claim right here Dec 15th. It also lets me know what I claimed to make sure ... and that would let me know that I did claim everything I intended to claim. Overview of the process that's helpful it would tell me like how my claim would be processed, like the procedure. And this right here (recent activity) is very helpful it tells me when my claim moved to step 2, and right here that it moved to step 3. 

* Is there anything particularly confusing?
> NOTES

* If you wanted to upload evidence to your claim, what would you do?
> I would go to files

#### Things to watch for:

* How do Veterans react to the Status page in general?
> NOTES

* Do Veterans read the recent activity section and find it important?
> NOTES

* Do Veterans know what to do if they want to add files to their claim online?
> NOTES

### Part 1 C: Files Page - 10 minutes

[Participant clicks into the Files tab]

* Now tell me what you see here. (Prompt them to scroll up and down.)
> If I scroll down it tells me all the evidence I have submitted already. But it allows me to go here to upload new evidence.

* Is there anything that is particularly useful about what you see here?
> Yes. The most important thing to me is two thing: it tells me the documents they have received lets me know all the evidence I did submit they have received it. It tells me which files have been reviewed, which files have not been reviewed yet, it also tells me in what format I can submit files. 

* Is there anything that is particularly confusing about what you see here?
> I don't particularly find anything confusing on this page.

* What steps would you take to add a file to your claim?
> I would select Upload file. I would select what type of document this is, so I would click that and see what options they give me that match my military personnel record. So scrolling down I would select "Military Personnel Record". And after that I would select Submit files for review.

#### Things to watch for:

* What content on the page is most useful to the Veteran? Least helpful or confusing?
> NOTES

* Do Veterans read the document files section and find it important?
> NOTES

### Part 1 D: Confirmation message for successful file upload - 10 minutes

[Participant completes the File upload]

* How would you explain this message to a friend?
> Ok. so right here it tells me that I've submitted it and it tells me it could take up to 2 days for them to receive my documents. So in about 2 days I would go back to Status and see if they have actually received my document. Well no I wouldn't. I would go right here to "Check the status of your document". 

* If we were not here, what would be your next step? (Prompt them to scroll up and down. If they haven't.)
> So it depends. So after I've submitted it right now I would immediately select "Check the status of your document" 

* Is this what you expected to see?
> Yes I believe it is.

* What do you think this card is trying to communicate (referring to the submission in progress card)?
> They haven't received it but I sent it and they have yet to receive it. So it tells me that I did submit the thing that I want to submit, but it tells me that the submission is in progress. So after this about 2 days I would go back to VA.gov and I would check Status and I would look to see a notification that my document has been received. 

* Can you describe the relationship between the confirmation message and the "submission in progress" card?
> NOTES


**PROMPT:** Let's pause and imagine you come back later in the day to check on your uploaded.

[Click on the name "Hector" on the top-right hand corner of the page]

* If you wanted to check the status of the claim where would you click?
> I would go to Details

[Click on "Details"] 
* Where would you go to check the progress your uploaded document?
> Then from Deteails I would probably go to Files.  

[Click on "Files tab"] 

* Describe what happened here? (Prompt them to scroll up and down. If they haven't.)
> So then I would go and I would see that the file submitted is right here. So it has been submitted. However, there's no "Pending review" or "Reviewed." So I know they have it but they haven't done anything with it because I have no note right here below it (referring to statuses). 

* When you look at the other files listed, some have a status while others don’t. What would be your best guess as to why that is?
> I would say whoever's revieweing my request, I don't know how they work, but I would say my reviewer has not gotten to certain information but has viewed other information. For example right here, 5103 evidence, it tells me that it's been not only that it's been submitted but that it's been looked at. "Pending" so they're probably reviewing some things on that document. The Miliarty Personnel only tells me that that it's been received not that it's being verified or anything like that.
> I've never done a buddy statement but I assume they have to contact my buddies. I would say my DD214's a record of my service. (He's trying to theorize why each document would need to go under review and why they might be in different states).
> I wouldn't be too much worried about it, the only thing I'm worreid about is a notification that I got before like "Document couldn't be processed' all the documents I see here means that the VA has received them.
> Long as I know they got them, they can take as long as they want to. But I know they got them. I know that it's not on my end that I am lacking something that's holding my process up.
* Would you expect to see statuses on all of these files?
> That would be nice. If everything had a status, that would be nice. 

* What would you do next?
> NOTES

#### Things to watch for:

* When they see the confirmation message, are they more likely to leave the page or check their submission status?
> NOTES

* Do they understand what the "submission in progress" card is?
> NOTES

* Once the document hits the eFolder, is it clear the submitted document is now added to their records and no longer pending?
> NOTES

## Part 2: Failure processing file (Type 2 Failure)

[Click on the name "Hector" on the top-right hand corner of the page]

### Part 2 A: Home page - Open tracked item - 5 minutes

**PROMPT**: Now, we're going to imagine that the VA has requested evidence from you.

* What do you think this alert is communicating?
> It may be claiming something that my document isn't legible or that it's incomplete, not a full record, or that I may have entered the wrong...they sent me some type of notification. A development letter. So that would probably tell me in the Details what's wrong, what is needed, what I am missing maybe. 

* Based on the text in this alert, when you upload your file, when do you expect the alert to disappear?
> When the reviewer ... when I have answered their request for more information

* If you want to know more about this request, what would you do?
> I would select Details

#### Things to watch for:

* Do they understand that they need to take action?
> NOTES

* Is it clear that the alert will remain visible until VA has reviewed the file and not when the Veteran uploads the file?
> NOTES

### Part 2 B: Status page - open request - 5 minutes

[Click on "Details"]

* Describe to me what this alert is communicating?
> Need to get information that's not part of the VA

* What pieces of information would you say are important to you on this page?
> NOTES

* If you wanted to learn more about the alert, what would you do?
> I would select Details

### Part 2 C: Request page - 5 minutes

[Click on the details]

* Describe what you’re seeing here. Remember to think aloud as you do.
> So it says the VA requests me to request 21-4142 to obtain permission to obtain personal information from a non-VA source like private doctor or a hospital. I would find that form so I could fill it out and submit it. 

* In your own words, how would you describe what's being communicated?
> It's very clear. Even if I don't know what a 21-4142 is, it's very clear what I need to do next for my claim, to move forward.

* If you wanted to upload your response, how would you go about it?
> So I would select this (form) download it, fill it out, save it to my laptop and from my files on my laptop I would drag it here or select "choose from folder" and upload that same form that I downloaded once it's complete and submit it right here. 

When the participant see the pre-populated upload file remind them: 

**PROMPT**: Just a reminder for this demo, we’ve pre-uploaded a file to simulate selecting one from your device.

### Part 2 D: Confirmation for tracked item - 15 minutes

[Participant completes the File upload]

* If we were not here, what would be your next step? (Prompt them to scroll up and down. If they haven't.)
> (scrolls down to review page, scrolls back up to message) After that  I would select "Check the status of my document submission". (After clicking "Check the status" link he wants to go back to Status -- because scroll position isn't set to the right place). 

[Click on the alert, "Check the status of your document submission"]

**PROMPT**: Please scroll down to the "Documents" section. In this prototype, the page won’t scroll there automatically, but that’s the intended behavior in the final version.

It lets me know that my submission is in progress, it doesn't mean that they've reviewed it. It just lets me know it has been submitted. 

* Is this what you expect to see?
> NOTE

* What would you do next?
> I would probably wait the 2 days to see the progress of the submission

#### Things to watch for:

* Do they notice the link to the document status in the confirmation message?
> NOTES

* Do they navigate to the Files tab to check the document status?
> NOTES  
⠀
## Part 2 E: Participant Logged out

**PROMPT**: Now we’re going to pause and imagine that you’ve logged off and 3 days later, you get an email notification on your device.

[Click on the name "Hector" on the top-right hand corner of the page]

**PROMPT**: Take a moment to review this page.

* What are you feeling when you see this?
> Of courrse I was feeling like I had a feeling that I did something wrong. So it must be a mistake on my end. I would also probably have a little bit of fear that this would affect my claim. If anything doesn't go my way, I have a fear that I have failed. Which it doesn't really mean that. That's just my anxiety about seeing this that they haven't processed my document.

* In your own words, describe what is being communicated.
> They sent me a notice saying that the document I've submitted can't be processed. So if I scroll down to document details it tells me I submitted on the 19th. The 22nd is when they tried to read it, review it, whatever, and they weren't able to. So it tells me that the submission failed. I would scroll down to where it says "What to do next" – I could mail it in, if I know what type of document I have...if I know I have the right document but I don't know what's wrong with the submission, I would print out the document, put my SSN on it, and submit it by mail or by walking into the regional office. 

* Why do you think you are receiving this email?
> NOTES

* What would you do next?
> So if I'm not sure what they're talking about I would definitely call the 800 number. And then I would print it out and walk it up there.
⠀
I want you to explore the available options as if you were on your own and viewing the actual page.

* Which option do you prefer and why?
> I am printing that thing out and I am walking it to the regional office. I am not playing with the mail. I am taking it up there.

### Part 2 F: Return to VA.gov - 3 minutes

[Click on the "exit" button on the top-right hand corner of the page]

**PROMPT**: Now we’re logged back into the VA website to see your claim.
Without clicking anything, take a moment to review the page. Remember to think aloud as you scroll up and down.

> I would know that I still need to do this. In my head I know that my claim cannot move forward until I do this. 

* If you want to know more about this alert, what would you do?
> So I would press Details to get more information about this notice here (red alert). 

### Part 2 G: Status page - Resubmit Error - 10 minutes

* Describe what you think this alert is telling you.
> i would submit it in person

* What do you think is the relationship between what you're seeing here and what you saw in your email? 
  * [If needed for reference click the “reference email” button]
  * [Click the email logo to return to previous screen]
> The email just tells me that I have a notice, if I'm correct. VA.gov tells me exactly what that notice is.

* What do you expect to happen if you click the "X" button on the alert? If you sign out and then sign back in a few days later, would you expect to see this alert again?
> This would go back to the little bar, it woudl probably not be so detailed right here, it would probably just be "We need you to submit a document" (thinks it will collapse into a slim alert). 

* Is there anything in the alert you're not seeing that you wish was there?
> No. It tells me exactly what I need to do. Oh wait hold on! Go back. I would really want to know why it couldn't be processed. Was it illegible? Maybe I handwrote it, was it illegible, was it the wrong form, I would want to know why it couldn't be processed. 

* What would you do next?
> I would, based on this information right here I would get the form printed out and I would take it to the regional office.

#### If they say click on the files page

* What are you expecting to see here? (prompt them to scroll down)
> NOTES

* Looking at this card, can you describe what's being communicated?
> NOTES

* If you wanted to resubmit your documents what would you do?
> 

* [click the CTA to resubmit documents]
⠀
#### If they chose learn how to resubmit document

* [click the CTA to resubmit documents]

### Part 2 H: Resubmit notice page - 10 minutes
Without clicking anything, take a moment to review the page. Remember to think aloud as you scroll up and down.

> Anything the VA tells me that I can walk it into the office I'm walking it in. I'm never mailing anything!

* What do you think is the relationship between what you're seeing here and what you saw in your email? 
  * [If needed for reference click the “reference email” button]
  * [Click the email logo to return to previous screen]
> The email will be less detailed

* How likely are you to re-upload the document instead of sending a physical copy?
> I would not digitally try to resubmit it. Because it says I can mail or walk in. 

* What do you think will happen after you submit your document using one of these options?
> I'll probably get another email with a notification and then I'll come back to VA.gov to check the status of the submission and see if the form was submitted and see the progress of the submission of that form. If it's been reviewed, there'll definitely be information on VA.gov that tells me the form has been processed or not. Like yes, it's been submitted instead of what I got before saying that it could not be processed. 

#### Things to watch for:

* Do they use the "recent activity" section to track the progress of their upload?
* Do they understand why they are seeing an email?
* Can they identify the relationship between the email and in-app alerts?
* Do they understand the options available for resubmitting files to VA?
⠀
## Post-Task Interview - 5 minutes

* Overall, what did you think of what you saw today? Was it clear or confusing?
> Very clear. Very clear. Even if I had never filed a claim, like the claim I just filed I filed on my own. VSOs are great at what they do, I don't mind using one of those for direction. But it's very clear in a way that I can understand it. Sometimes you go to someone for help, and they can help you but you don't even know whwat they did. I need to understand the process.

* Was there anything specifically helpful?
> Yes, the claim status is very important. Lets me know how my claim is moving along in the system. Being able to download forms, fill them out, and immediately submit, that's very important. Back in the day you had to get it printed out, fill it out and submit it. There was no way to download it right from your computer and immediately upload it, that cuts down on time.

* On a scale of 1-5, how confident do you feel about being able to resubmit your document if you received a notice like this in real life? (1 being least confident, 5 being most confident.)
  * Why?
> I would feel comfortable doing it, however because I got that notice I would make sure I'm walking it in and I get that stamp with the time and date and getting that receipt, because I wouldn't want the same thing to happen again. So resubmitting the form that they had a problem with, I wouldn't feel confident in digitally uploading it again, but I do know that I could...I just got something in me that won't let me do that. 1 for resubmitting a form digitally. 5 for knowing what to do.

* On a scale of 1-5, How confident are you that VA will effectively manage the paper documents you’ve submitted? (1 being least confident, 5 being most confident.)
  * Why?
> Very confident. I've had great experiences with the VA.gov website. 5

* Any questions for me?
> I do not.
  
## Thank-You and Closing - 1 minute

Thank you for sharing your thoughts with us today. Your feedback was greatly appreciated as we work to improve the site for Veterans.

Perigean will send you a thank you note with a brief message to share with other Veterans who might want to participate in future research.

Thanks again, and have a great day!

## Emergency Exit

[In the rare case of an emergency during a session, be prepared with an [emergency exit strategy](https://depo-platform-documentation.scrollhelp.site/research-design/Research-Safety-and-Emergency-Exit-Strategies.2143649793.html#ResearchSafetyandEmergencyExitStrategies-Sampleexitstrategies). Plan to include here at least one option, so its easy to find during a session. Take some time to practice so it feels more comfortable.]
