# Yellow Ribbon School Finder Conversation Guide for Moderated Research

## Intro - 5 minutes

Thanks for joining us today! My name is Liz Lantz and I also have some colleagues on the line observing and taking notes. Today we're going to talk about Yellow Ribbon education benefits, and how you, as someone eligible to receive them, understand your benefits and go about using them.

Before we start, a few things I want to mention:

- This entire session should take about 40 minutes. I want to be sure not to keep you much longer, so I may occasionally prompt you with the next question or topic.

- In this session, we want to hear your honest opinions. We are not testing your ability. We just want to improve these tools to better meet Veteran's needs. I will not be offended by any opinions you express, and I welcome your feedback. The more you can think out loud and share what you're thinking as you go through the session, the better.

- You'll be interacting with an interactive prototype. This is means it may not function exactly the way you expect. Some areas of the prototype will be clickable, and some will not. Since it's a demo, none of your actions will affect your actual VA information or benefits.

- If for any reason and at any time you want to stop the session, please let me know.

- Are you comfortable if I record my screen and audio as we talk today? We use the recordings to confirm that we have captured your opinions accurately. The recordings are destroyed after we complete analysis, and none of your comments will be attributed to you directly.

- - If yes: Once I start recording, I am going to confirm that you are ok with me recording this session once more.

Start recording.

- I have started recording. I'd like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record my screen the audio as we talk today?"

## Warm-up Questions - 10 minutes

Before we look at the website, let’s start with a few warm-up questions.

For participants who have already used the Yellow Ribbon benefit:

- I understand you've used your education benefits, which is great. Are you currently in school?

I’ve used them in the past, but I am considering going back to school and I’m not sure how much exactly I have left so I’m checking into that to make sure I know how much is covered. I also use the GI Bill with the Yellow Ribbon. I’ve been looking into marketing and things in that realm. 



- Where are/did you going to school, and what degree?

I have an MBA, but I wanted to go more into the financial side and economics. For now, I don’t want my benefits to go to waste and it helps with my housing allowance to use them.

- I'd love to hear about your research and decision process once you knew you wanted to go to school.

What stage of your military service were you in when you decided to go to school?

The first time I was fresh out of the Army and I needed the housing allowance too.

How many schools did you apply to?

First time I only applied to one school because of location. After my associates I transferred to another school for my bachelors. This time I’m looking into more online options so I’m thinking about taking more classes through that school. I wasn’t satisfied with the MBA program, but it was easy so there’s pros and cons to that.

Do you recall the factors that made you want to apply to a specific school?

The cost and the program significance to my goals. If it will be a lot of money out of pocket, that will be a deterrent, so I’d look for others that will be better financially. Location is no longer a top priority for me – especially as an online program. I usually research through Google for finding schools and then go to the VA website to make sure the GI Bill will cover it. I usually start with the programs that I’m interested in to see who offers that program and then I narrow down and use a spreadsheet to keep track of information.

Why did you choose that school, and area of study?

I understand you've used the Yellow Ribbon benefit. Tell me how that benefit works.

It is handled through the school, so you have to apply through the school because it covers the difference from the GI Bill. Only a certain number of students receive it so you have to be approved to be one. I’m assuming you can do the Yellow Ribbon set-up through the VA rep at the school, or they can guide you where to go. If I applied to multiple school that weren’t covered by the GI Bill – the Yellow Ribbon would definitely help cover that out of pocket cost and would be guide my decision in school choice.



How did Yellow Ribbon benefits play into your decision?

My first time – my GI Bill covered everything for me, so I never needed the Yellow Ribbon until now. I also know of some scholarship websites. I learned about these benefits through AKAP. 



What specific methods did you use to research schools, and your VA education benefits?



For all participants:

- How did you first learn what VA education benefits were available to you, and how Yellow Ribbon fit into those benefits?

I first learned about Yellow Ribbon through the internet – I think through one of those targeted adds. 

- Were there any parts of the process that were particularly confusing? If so, how did you get clarification?

The VA reps at the schools were a big asset in learning about and implementing my benefits. They made it much easier for me – I know some friends who had some trouble but I think I was pretty well informed.

- Imagine I don't know anything about VA benefits. Can you tell me how the Yellow Ribbon program works?

We're almost ready to move to the prototype now, and I'll ask you to do a few tasks related to finding schools and understanding Yellow Ribbon benefits. Before we jump in, can you tell me where you would typically conduct this type of research?

## First Task: Find relevant schools in legacy Yellow Ribbon tables - 5 minutes

- Start on Yellow Ribbon benefit hub page.

- Find a school they're interested in, and tell me the Yellow Ribbon benefit information for that school

- - If participant is interested in a state with a very small number of rows, once they have completed the task, ask them to react to a state like California with numerous rows.

It seems pretty easy to identify what you’re looking for and how to get to that information. I think all of the different areas at the bottom break it down pretty easily so people can find what they’re looking for. 

*To find Yellow Ribbon info from va.gov*

I would look under education and click search by school. It seems easy to walk through with the dropdown menus for answers. I like that it uses common terms instead of the technical language to make it easier to understand. The months of service breakdown is helpful for determining eligibility. Yellow Ribbon doesn’t seem to be in the dropdown so let me see if there is anything else on here for Yellow Ribbon…but it is not anywhere on here. So…I would check the “learn more” tabs on the dropdowns. I’d check for a search box and type in Yellow Ribbon. So I’ll search for that and see what comes up. The top one is a VA website specifically about the Yellow Ribbon program. *clicked the tab* This page has tuition cost coverage for eligibility - includes searching by specific schools and what you’ll need to qualify for the benefit which is useful. It tells you how to apply and I like that there is a direct link to apply that makes it a lot easier.  

Things to watch for:

- How does the participant understand and navigate the accordion pattern?



- How does the participant navigate the table on the state page? (Ctrl+f, manual scroll, etc)



- What emotions/thoughts does the participant verbalize while looking at a table presentation of this data?



## Second Task: Conduct a search in prototype - 5 minutes

- Go to the other tab we opened earlier, with the prototype.
- Take a look at the content on this page. Tell me what you think this page is for, what you can do here. You can scroll up and down, but don't click on anything just yet. Think aloud as you look.

I’d search by school name. I see the school I am currently looking at in this list. It has grad and undergrad info here and it says there is unlimited funding which I assume means that it could cover the total cost difference after the GI Bill. The degree level would specify which level of degree and the division would specify the status. The number of students would tell you how many students can receive it and unlimited would mean that there is no cap on the number of students who can receive the benefits. Seeing that the university I’m interested in has unlimited under the students and coverage amount that is a good thing for me. I’d then look through other schools and use those characteristics to determine if they could be a good fit for me. 



How would you find Xavier University? 

*immediately scrolled down too X’s* 

To reduce the number of results I would go to the top and look for a filter button. I’d expect to see a filter dropdown with options to see schools by number of students or location or the max contribution per student to find specifically what you are looking at within your search. 



- What are your thoughts on the search criteria?



- Let's imagine you live in California, and you're interested in finding an in-state school for a Bachelor's degree. Go ahead and see if you can find that.



- After results are presented:

Again, take a look at the content on this page. Don't click on anything just yet. Tell me what you're looking at, what you can do here. Think aloud as you look.



Imagine you wanted to see this list in a different order, such has highest benefit amount first. How would you do that?



Does the information about each school feel complete to you?



Is the meaning of each piece of information in the card clear to you?



If you wanted to see the next set of schools, how would you do that?



## Third Task: Compare schools and change criteria - 8 minutes

- Let's say you're interested in [School A, School B, and School C] , and you want to see which one offers Yellow Ribbon to the most students. How would you do that?

- - If student does not use add to compare button and make their way to the comparison table, guide them there

- Tell me about this screen - what do you see here, what do you think you can do?



- What are your thoughts on the way this information is presented?



- If you wanted to update this list somehow, how would you do that?



- Now that you have this information about these schools, what would your next step be?

I would write down the schools that I am most interested in. I would probably go into this search with a preset list of interesting schools and see which have an unlimited cap to match the best programs to best assistance and then go the university’s website to get specific numbers. I think it would be helpful to be able to click the schools name and have it take you to the school’s website. It would also be helpful to have a compare option to use to compare a few different schools to just compare those schools. 5 would be good number of schools to compare at once.



- Imagine you want to go back and search for something different, maybe a specific school, or a different kind of degree. How would you do that?

To go back form here I would hit the back button on the browser, which worked, and then I’d look down at the alphabetical section of states.  



## Post-Task Interview - 5 minutes

- Do you have any other thoughts or feedback you haven't had a chance to share yet?

Positive:

It was easy to compare schools by state to see the funding and the grad vs. undergrad programs. 

Improvements:

I’d be curious of an online option to look exclusively at online programs. 

*looked for, and found, a fully online university under California*



- Any questions for me?



Thank-You and Closing - 2 minutes

Well, we really appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us today. Your feedback is so helpful to us as we continue to work on the site and make sure it really works for Veterans.

Thanks! Lastly, do you know any other Veterans, caregivers, or service members who might be willing to participate in a future user research sesson? If Yes: Thank you! I'll have our team send you an email with a little blurb that you can pass along.

Great, well thank you so much again, and enjoy the rest of your day!
