# **Participant 2, 2025-05-05-1pm-ET**


## **Instructions**

We will be able to get ok transcripts from EnjoyHQ, so focus notes on observations, clearly defined interpretations, and impactful utterances.


* Focus on observations of user behavior.
    * Example of observation: “Participants clicks on My VA tab, hovers over X header, then back buttons to landing page.”
    * Example of observation: “Participant says ‘this is annoying, that makes no sense.’ when looking to login to BTSSS.”
* Be clear where notetaker is interpreting or making inferences of what participant is thinking/feeling
    * Example of interpretation: “Based on facial expressions, participant seems to be confused. Going back and forth between X and Y pages seems like they are looking for something.”
    * Example of interpretation: “Participant easily found link no frustration.”


**Task order used: **


## **Task 1: Find Claim Details(from My VA)**

**From:** My VA landing page

**Task:** Imagine that on May 1 you went to see your PCP at the Cheyenne VA.  After that visit, you submitted a claim request to be reimbursed for the cost of the gas and tolls you incurred going to that visit.  Now, you want to find out what has happened to that claim.  From here, show me where you would look for that information.

Please remember to think aloud and describe what you are looking for.  What are you looking for? 
- 

**Questions** from: Submitted for Payment Claim Details page 

1 Tell me what you are looking at.
   - Scrolling down page (My VA)
   - Trying to click the menu
   - I was looking for something about thravel. I was about to click on appointments
   - Now it looks like im on the travel page and it says I can review and file.
   - I see the one abotu Cheyenne for May 1st.
   - I'd click on the details to get more details and if there is a decision.
   - 
3. What has happened to your claim? What tells you that?
  - Looks like it's been approved b/c it says it's reimburing amount and the status of submitted fo payment
5. What, if anything, do you think happens next for your claim?
 - I guess I'd recieve the money b/c it says it's submitted and I see an amount
6. What can you tell me about how much you are being reimbursed for?
   - I don't know. I clikced on what does this status mean.
   - I don't see that info
   - I'm not sure why there is a difference. There is nothing that shows me a difference. I'de reach out to my travel place to see why there is a difference.
    1. Probe: do they notice the gap between what they submitted for and what they got? Do they understand why there is a gap?
7. Looking at this page, what information do you find most important? What information is least important?
   - Most it's there other thatn the differece in the amount.
   - The amount is the most important part it shows if I am or am not getting it.
   - The dates are the second most important. Shows how long from submittion to getting the money
   - Least impotant would be the bacnk account info b/c I already have reibursement for disability 


## **Task 2: Find and appeal Denied Claim**

**From:** Submitted for Payment Claim Details page

**Task:** Now, imagine that you submitted a claim to be reimbursed for traveling for a visit on April 25, but you have not received payment.  You want to follow up on that claim.  From here, show me where you would look for that information.

Please remember to think aloud and describe what you are looking for.

**Questions from:** Denied Claim Details page 

6. Tell me what you are looking at.
   - Go back to claims and to the claim and click the detail
   - 
8. What has happened to your claim? What tells you that?
   - Opens decision letter and reads through it
   - Found the reason and found the appeals link in the letter
   - Found the appeal info in the detail page
    2. Probe: If they do not open the decision letter, prompt them to.  Gauge reaction to and comprehension of the letter. 
10. What, if anything, do you think you can do from here? 
11. Do you think you can appeal this denial?  Why or why not? What makes you say so?
    - Looks like I can I guess b/c the appela button is there and wouldn't be there if I couldn't
13. If you wanted to appeal this denial, do you think that you can do that from here?
    - I could clikc the link to appeal and would need the appointment information
15. If so, how would you expect to appeal this denial?
16. Looking at this page, what information do you find most important? What information is least important? 
 - The claim status tells me if it's approved or denied
 - The reasosna dn decision letter so I'd know why
 - Amount is least importatn

## **Task 3: Find partial pay claim**

**From:** Denied Claim Details page

**Task:** Now, imagine that several months ago you submitted another claim to be reimbursed for traveling for a visit.  You expected to be reimbursed around around $50 for this trip.  However, when you checked your account, you noticed that you were only paid around $20.  Now you want to learn more about why you did not receive that around $30 gap.  From here, show me where you would look for this information.  

Please remember to think aloud and describe what you are looking for.

**Questions from:** Paid (Partial) Claim Details page 

13. Tell me what you are looking at.
    - If I didn't have the exact date. I'd start clicking on claims to figure out which is the right one
    - I'd maybe go back to past appoitnments
    - I could maybe sort and see.
    - If I didn't have th date I'd have to clikc on the appointments
    - Click through details for the amounts
    - I see the payment difference
15. What has happened to your claim? What tells you that?
    - It says the 20 dollars was paid
    - Clicked on staus definition but didn't read it aloud
    - Claims status tells me it's paid
    - I see the option to download the decison  letter and would explain why there is a difference
    3. Probe: If they do not open the decision letter, prompt them to.  Gauge reaction to and comprehension of the letter.
       - It's says why there is a partial payment
17. What, if anything, do you think you can do from here?
    - All the ways to get a review
19. Do you think you can appeal this denial?  Why or why not? What makes you say so?
20. If you wanted to appeal this denial, do you think that you can do that from here? 
21. If so, how would you expect to appeal this denial?
22. Looking at this page, what information do you find most important? What information is least important?
    - Phone numnbers and appeal process. I'd click the link to learn how to appeal
    - I see I could mail it in
    - 1st - The decison letter is the most important becaosue it hase reason for decison
    - 2nd - The way to appeal
    - 3rd - Documents I submitted for the evidence
    - 4th - dates ant times I submitted so I have the info
    - Least - The status was paid but I was only partially paid adn it would be nice to see that in the status. Maybe better if ti was partially paid


## **Task 4: Resolve fiscal rescinded claim**

**From:** Partial Pay Claim Details page

**Task:**  *You submitted a claim to be reimbursed for traveling for a visit on April 2 but have not heard anything.  You want to follow up on that claim.  From here, show me where you would look for that information.

Please remember to think aloud and describe what you are looking for.


**Questions from:** Fiscal Rescinded Claim Details page 

20. Tell me what you are looking at.
    -Says fiscal recinded. Clicks on what does it mean b/c I didn't know what it meant. It was super helpful
22. What has happened to your claim? What tells you that?
    - Looks like something was wrong with my back acount
24. What, if anything, do you think you can do from here?
    - I need to reach out to my travel dept 
26. What do you think your next step is for this claim? Is there one?
    - I could click on the find facility link to find my facility
    - I'd call the travel department to figure out what was wrong
28. Looking at this page, what information do you find most important? What information is least important?
    1st - THe status definition becuse it tells me why
    2nd - Claim information so I have it when I call the VA
    3rd - Amount so they can find it by the amount
    4th - My evidence
    Least - I don't think that there is
    Maybe having the facility inforation whould be higher up


## **Reaction questions**

1. Overall, how easy or difficult would you say this process for following up on a travel claim that you went through today was?
   - Pretty easy it's step by step when you get into the system
3. What would you change about this process for following up on a travel claim?
   - I don't know that I'd change anything
5. Of everything that you looked at today, what would you say was the most confusing to you and why?
   - Harder to find the one that was different in ta amount. Maybe put tha amount ont he main screen
7. What about this process would you keep?
   - I have the app and having it at the fingertips is helpful
9. Is there anything else you would like to share that we have not covered?
    - Nope



[In the rare case of an emergency during a session, be prepared with an [emergency exit strategy](https://depo-platform-documentation.scrollhelp.site/research-design/Research-Safety-and-Emergency-Exit-Strategies.2143649793.html#ResearchSafetyandEmergencyExitStrategies-Sampleexitstrategies). Plan to include here at least one option, so its easy to find during a session. Take some time to practice so it feels more comfortable.]
