# **Participant 4, 2025-05-06-10:30am-ET**


## **Instructions**

We will be able to get ok transcripts from EnjoyHQ, so focus notes on observations, clearly defined interpretations, and impactful utterances.


* Focus on observations of user behavior.
    * Example of observation: “Participants clicks on My VA tab, hovers over X header, then back buttons to landing page.”
    * Example of observation: “Participant says ‘this is annoying, that makes no sense.’ when looking to login to BTSSS.”
* Be clear where notetaker is interpreting or making inferences of what participant is thinking/feeling
    * Example of interpretation: “Based on facial expressions, participant seems to be confused. Going back and forth between X and Y pages seems like they are looking for something.”
    * Example of interpretation: “Participant easily found link no frustration.”


**Task order used: **


## **Task 1: Find Claim Details(from My VA)**

**From:** My VA landing page

**Task:** Imagine that on May 1 you went to see your PCP at the Cheyenne VA.  After that visit, you submitted a claim request to be reimbursed for the cost of the gas and tolls you incurred going to that visit.  Now, you want to find out what has happened to that claim.  From here, show me where you would look for that information.

Please remember to think aloud and describe what you are looking for.  What are you looking for? 

**Questions** from: Submitted for Payment Claim Details page 

- User reads off the BTSS link

- Tell me what you are looking at.
  - I will click on what does status mean
-  What has happened to your claim? What tells you that?
  -  It's denied b/c I got a clim letter
  -  I think a descion has been reached. Nothing is telling me because I got a letter in the mail
  -  Prompted to look at claim status (Submitted for payment)
  -  They should've paid me based on this status
  -  User cliked on what does status mean
-  What, if anything, do you think happens next for your claim?
  -  I call VA and talk to billing
-  What can you tell me about how much you are being reimbursed for?
   -  Probe: do they notice the gap between what they submitted for and what they got? Do they understand why there is a gap?
-  Looking at this page, what information do you find most important? What information is least important? 


## **Task 2: Find and appeal Denied Claim**

**From:** Submitted for Payment Claim Details page

**Task:** Now, imagine that you submitted a claim to be reimbursed for traveling for a visit on April 25, but you have not received payment.  You want to follow up on that claim.  From here, show me where you would look for that information.

Please remember to think aloud and describe what you are looking for.

**Questions from:** Denied Claim Details page 

- Tell me what you are looking at.
- What has happened to your claim? What tells you that?
    - Probe: If they do not open the decision letter, prompt them to.  Gauge reaction to and comprehension of the letter. 
- What, if anything, do you think you can do from here? 
- Do you think you can appeal this denial?  Why or why not? What makes you say so?
- If you wanted to appeal this denial, do you think that you can do that from here? 
- If so, how would you expect to appeal this denial?
- Looking at this page, what information do you find most important? What information is least important? 


## **Task 3: Find partial pay claim**

**From:** Denied Claim Details page

**Task:** Now, imagine that several months ago you submitted another claim to be reimbursed for traveling for a visit.  You expected to be reimbursed around around $50 for this trip.  However, when you checked your account, you noticed that you were only paid around $20.  Now you want to learn more about why you did not receive that around $30 gap.  From here, show me where you would look for this information.  

Please remember to think aloud and describe what you are looking for.

- I'd go to Inbox to see if they told me anything
- I'd call them if I couldn't find it
- I go to "Review your payment history"
- I'd call them and ask them because I can't get anywhere
- Prompts to click on the travel claim link

**Questions from:** Paid (Partial) Claim Details page 

- Tell me what you are looking at.
  - The details is a good one to click on
  - Yeah, it says the amount and I'm wondering were the rest of it is
  - I'd click and call for help
  - IT takes to long to get there and that is my answer
  - Documents submitted and appeal
- What has happened to your claim? What tells you that?
  - They want me to file and appeal b/c the link is there
  - The don't know what I want
  - A decisoin has been made. It's denied because they sent me a letter
  - If I clicked the letter they'd give me the letter I got by mail
   - Probe: If they do not open the decision letter, prompt them to.  Gauge reaction to and comprehension of the letter. 
- What, if anything, do you think you can do from here? 
- Do you think you can appeal this denial?  Why or why not? What makes you say so?
- If you wanted to appeal this denial, do you think that you can do that from here? 
- If so, how would you expect to appeal this denial?
- Looking at this page, what information do you find most important? What information is least important? 


## **Task 4: Resolve fiscal rescinded claim**

**From:** Partial Pay Claim Details page

**Task:**  *You submitted a claim to be reimbursed for traveling for a visit on April 2 but have not heard anything.  You want to follow up on that claim.  From here, show me where you would look for that information.

Please remember to think aloud and describe what you are looking for.


**Questions from:** Fiscal Rescinded Claim Details page 

- Clicks on April 2nd

- Tell me what you are looking at.
  - Reads off
- What has happened to your claim? What tells you that?
  - Looks at amount
  - It's not there because they refused. I know that because I got a letter
  - I'd like to to hit the reciept
  - A decsion was reched becuse I got a decision letter that says it was denied
  - Nothing here tells me anything
  - It says Fiscal Recinded. Does that mean thye took it away. They sent me a letter.
  - I could submit an appeal
  - Prompted to look at "What odes status mean"
  - A decsion has not been reached
  - I'd file an appeal
- What, if anything, do you think you can do from here? 
- What do you think your next step is for this claim? Is there one?
- Looking at this page, what information do you find most important? What information is least important?
  - 1 - Fiscal Recinded (Status)
  - User didn't say
  - Least important is the documents I submitted


## **Reaction questions**

- Overall, how easy or difficult would you say this process for following up on a travel claim that you went through today was?
  - Very difficult because dealing with the VA is a pain in the ass
  - Talking with someone on the phone with the VA is difficult
  - With our time, after the technical issues, it was okay. I don't do FaceTime.
- What would you change about this process for following up on a travel claim?
  - Make it easier for people who aren't technical
  - Clcik on app and start talking
  - Call me and talk to me
- Of everything that you looked at today, what would you say was the most confusing to you and why?
  - Dealing with it being fake scenraio
  - Giving you the answer you want
- What about this process would you keep?
- Is there anything else you would like to share that we have not covered?
  - Make the VA system simpler.
  - If the person you are talking to would understand your question



[In the rare case of an emergency during a session, be prepared with an [emergency exit strategy](https://depo-platform-documentation.scrollhelp.site/research-design/Research-Safety-and-Emergency-Exit-Strategies.2143649793.html#ResearchSafetyandEmergencyExitStrategies-Sampleexitstrategies). Plan to include here at least one option, so its easy to find during a session. Take some time to practice so it feels more comfortable.]
