# **Participant 7, 2025-05-07-1:00pm-ET**


## **Instructions**

We will be able to get ok transcripts from EnjoyHQ, so focus notes on observations, clearly defined interpretations, and impactful utterances.


* Focus on observations of user behavior.
    * Example of observation: “Participants clicks on My VA tab, hovers over X header, then back buttons to landing page.”
    * Example of observation: “Participant says ‘this is annoying, that makes no sense.’ when looking to login to BTSSS.”
* Be clear where notetaker is interpreting or making inferences of what participant is thinking/feeling
    * Example of interpretation: “Based on facial expressions, participant seems to be confused. Going back and forth between X and Y pages seems like they are looking for something.”
    * Example of interpretation: “Participant easily found link no frustration.”


Device: Windows Laptop
Order: 2, 1, 4, 3

**Task order used: **


## **Task 1: Find Claim Details(from My VA)**

**From:** My VA landing page

**Task:** Imagine that on May 1 you went to see your PCP at the Cheyenne VA.  After that visit, you submitted a claim request to be reimbursed for the cost of the gas and tolls you incurred going to that visit.  Now, you want to find out what has happened to that claim.  From here, show me where you would look for that information.

Please remember to think aloud and describe what you are looking for.  What are you looking for? 

**Questions** from: Submitted for Payment Claim Details page 

- Tell me what you are looking at.
  - Finds claim detail easily
  - Lookign at that claim for that day and claim numnber
  - 
-  What has happened to your claim? What tells you that?
  - Submitted for payment
  - It's approved I should be seeing th emoney soon
  - THe claim status tells me that 
-  What, if anything, do you think happens next for your claim?
  - It would be paid to my account
-  What can you tell me about how much you are being reimbursed for?
  -  Reads amount
  -  It's a descrepancy. With my knowledge of travel maybe I havent met may cap so they took that money out. Or they didn't pay that amoun
   -  Probe: do they notice the gap between what they submitted for and what they got? Do they understand why there is a gap?
-  Looking at this page, what information do you find most important? What information is least important?
  - 1 Claim number
  - 2 Documents submitted to find the descrpancy
  - 3 Contact info
    - I would expect a decion letter b/c the amount is different. But maybe that's just for denials. At least something to tell me why the amount is differnt
  - Least - The direct deposit is the least important since they've already submitted 


## **Task 2: Find and appeal Denied Claim**

**From:** Submitted for Payment Claim Details page

**Task:** Now, imagine that you submitted a claim to be reimbursed for traveling for a visit on April 25, but you have not received payment.  You want to follow up on that claim.  From here, show me where you would look for that information.

Please remember to think aloud and describe what you are looking for.

**Questions from:** Denied Claim Details page 

- User looks at dependacy claims.
- I'm looking for the word travel
- I'd probrbaly go to my claims and maybe try to filter and then go to addition servies and got to check travel
- Goes to travel claims page

- Tell me what you are looking at.
  - Says denied
  - I'd download my decsions letter
- What has happened to your claim? What tells you that?
  - Denied
  - Downlaods decsion letter
  - I won't be able to open it because I don't have Word
  - I'd want a PDF
  - I can't scroll down to see the reason
    - Probe: If they do not open the decision letter, prompt them to.  Gauge reaction to and comprehension of the letter. 
- What, if anything, do you think you can do from here?
  - I can appeal with a secure message to the travel team. It gives me a form which doesn't make sense
  - I have no idea what that form is (10-0998)
  - Learn more would take me to the secure message infor
  - I can click on Learn more to appeal and it should be self explanitory
  - There is nothing to take me back. I'm hesitatnt ot use the back button on VA.gov
  - In the 5 years I've userd secure message I've only had a sucessful appeal
- Do you think you can appeal this denial?  Why or why not? What makes you say so?
  - If its within 30 days of the appointment then I could appeal it
  - Travel is pretty good with Secure messagging
- If you wanted to appeal this denial, do you think that you can do that from here? 
- If so, how would you expect to appeal this denial?
- Looking at this page, what information do you find most important? What information is least important?
  - 1 Decsion letter
  - 2 Reviewing docs
  - 3 Appeal process
    - I've never used the form. I just send secure message and they figure it out
    - In dropdown of secure message on VA.gov it goes to travel
    - You give them the claim number and then I wrtie down my concern and my phone number
    - 
  - 4 


## **Task 3: Find partial pay claim**

**From:** Denied Claim Details page

**Task:** Now, imagine that several months ago you submitted another claim to be reimbursed for traveling for a visit.  You expected to be reimbursed around around $50 for this trip.  However, when you checked your account, you noticed that you were only paid around $20.  Now you want to learn more about why you did not receive that around $30 gap.  From here, show me where you would look for this information.  

Please remember to think aloud and describe what you are looking for.

**Questions from:** Paid (Partial) Claim Details page 
- Back to claims
- Looking for...somehing I don't know
- I'd have to know the time period
- It was paid...
- I'd look for paid claim detials for each one
- Looks at each for the amount
- Finds it

- Tell me what you are looking at.
  - It's got a decison letter
  - I see the discrepancy in the amounts
  - Download decison letter
  - Can't scroll because it's a Word doc
- What has happened to your claim? What tells you that?
  - Decsion made
  - They made a partial payment (read from the preview of the letter)
   - Probe: If they do not open the decision letter, prompt them to.  Gauge reaction to and comprehension of the letter. 
- What, if anything, do you think you can do from here?
  - I'd go back to claims page and I'd contact local facility to find out what issue was
- Do you think you can appeal this denial?  Why or why not? What makes you say so?
  - Absolutely. Download appeal form and mail it or use online appeal
- If you wanted to appeal this denial, do you think that you can do that from here? 
- If so, how would you expect to appeal this denial?
- Looking at this page, what information do you find most important? What information is least important?
  - 1 Claim number to contact travel facility
  - 2 What I submitted to see what the difference is
  - 3 Decision letter tells me why
  - 4 Appeal form
  - Least - Setup travel reimbursement


## **Task 4: Resolve fiscal rescinded claim**

**From:** Partial Pay Claim Details page

**Task:**  *You submitted a claim to be reimbursed for traveling for a visit on April 2 but have not heard anything.  You want to follow up on that claim.  From here, show me where you would look for that information.

Please remember to think aloud and describe what you are looking for.


**Questions from:** Fiscal Rescinded Claim Details page 
- Back to claim list and to detail

- Tell me what you are looking at.
  - Fis rec tells me nothing
  - It doesn't tell me anything
  - What does this status mean...
    - Something is wrong with my bank
    - I'd need to call the travel dept in the help section
- What has happened to your claim? What tells you that?
  - They are ready to pay it but can't
  - Claim is approved
- What, if anything, do you think you can do from here?
  - 
- What do you think your next step is for this claim? Is there one?
  - Contact facilty.
  - I'd just use secure message
- Looking at this page, what information do you find most important? What information is least important?
  - 1 Status definiton b/c I have no idea what Fis Rec means
  - 2 Travle facility b/c it's my only recourse
  - 3 Claim number
  - Least - Documents submitted


## **Reaction questions**

- Overall, how easy or difficult would you say this process for following up on a travel claim that you went through today was?
  - (I missed it)
- What would you change about this process for following up on a travel claim?
  - When someone is doing travel claims they have already setup the finacial part. You don't need that here.
- Of everything that you looked at today, what would you say was the most confusing to you and why?
- What about this process would you keep?
- Is there anything else you would like to share that we have not covered? 



[In the rare case of an emergency during a session, be prepared with an [emergency exit strategy](https://depo-platform-documentation.scrollhelp.site/research-design/Research-Safety-and-Emergency-Exit-Strategies.2143649793.html#ResearchSafetyandEmergencyExitStrategies-Sampleexitstrategies). Plan to include here at least one option, so its easy to find during a session. Take some time to practice so it feels more comfortable.]
