# **Participant #1, 2025-05-08-4:00pm-ET**


## **Instructions**

We will be able to get ok transcripts from EnjoyHQ, so focus notes on observations, clearly defined interpretations, and impactful utterances.


* Focus on observations of user behavior.
    * Example of observation: “Participants clicks on My VA tab, hovers over X header, then back buttons to landing page.”
    * Example of observation: “Participant says ‘this is annoying, that makes no sense.’ when looking to login to BTSSS.”
* Be clear where notetaker is interpreting or making inferences of what participant is thinking/feeling
    * Example of interpretation: “Based on facial expressions, participant seems to be confused. Going back and forth between X and Y pages seems like they are looking for something.”
    * Example of interpretation: “Participant easily found link no frustration.”

Device: Android
**Task order used: **
Order: 3, 4, 1, 2


## **Task 1: Find Claim Details(from My VA)**

**From:** My VA landing page

**Task:** Imagine that on May 1 you went to see your PCP at the Cheyenne VA.  After that visit, you submitted a claim request to be reimbursed for the cost of the gas and tolls you incurred going to that visit.  Now, you want to find out what has happened to that claim.  From here, show me where you would look for that information.

Please remember to think aloud and describe what you are looking for.  What are you looking for? 

**Questions** from: Submitted for Payment Claim Details page 
- I'd look into BTSSS to look into the claim
- Talk to someone at the travvel office

- Tell me what you are looking at.
-  What has happened to your claim? What tells you that?
-  What, if anything, do you think happens next for your claim?
-  What can you tell me about how much you are being reimbursed for?
   -  Probe: do they notice the gap between what they submitted for and what they got? Do they understand why there is a gap?
-  Looking at this page, what information do you find most important? What information is least important? 


## **Task 2: Find and appeal Denied Claim**

**From:** Submitted for Payment Claim Details page

**Task:** Now, imagine that you submitted a claim to be reimbursed for traveling for a visit on April 25, but you have not received payment.  You want to follow up on that claim.  From here, show me where you would look for that information.

Please remember to think aloud and describe what you are looking for.

**Questions from:** Denied Claim Details page 

- Tell me what you are looking at.
- What has happened to your claim? What tells you that?
    - Probe: If they do not open the decision letter, prompt them to.  Gauge reaction to and comprehension of the letter. 
- What, if anything, do you think you can do from here? 
- Do you think you can appeal this denial?  Why or why not? What makes you say so?
- If you wanted to appeal this denial, do you think that you can do that from here? 
- If so, how would you expect to appeal this denial?
- Looking at this page, what information do you find most important? What information is least important? 


## **Task 3: Find partial pay claim**

**From:** Denied Claim Details page

**Task:** Now, imagine that several months ago you submitted another claim to be reimbursed for traveling for a visit.  You expected to be reimbursed around around $50 for this trip.  However, when you checked your account, you noticed that you were only paid around $20.  Now you want to learn more about why you did not receive that around $30 gap.  From here, show me where you would look for this information.  

Please remember to think aloud and describe what you are looking for.

- Clicked on manage claims and appeals
- Mentioned secure message for a personal ancidote to check on a travel claim
- This is not helping me at all
- Directed to travel claim link
- I'd go to past appointments b/c it woul dbe a past appointment
- Sees list of past appointments
- I see the link for claim details
- Directed to to claim link

**Questions from:** Paid (Partial) Claim Details page 

- Tell me what you are looking at.
  - Gives me the number and status and a definiton
  - Assumed the 30 gap was a deductible
- What has happened to your claim? What tells you that?
  - A decsion has been made by whatever the travel claim decided (didn't say the status). It's out of my control.
  - I'm only going to be reimbursed by the reimubursed amount
   - Probe: If they do not open the decision letter, prompt them to.  Gauge reaction to and comprehension of the letter. 
- What, if anything, do you think you can do from here? 
- Do you think you can appeal this denial?  Why or why not? What makes you say so?
- If you wanted to appeal this denial, do you think that you can do that from here?
  - I'd go to secure message. That's the only way I know.
- If so, how would you expect to appeal this denial?
- Looking at this page, what information do you find most important? What information is least important?
  - 1 Appeal a claim decsion. I could print the form and mail it in based on what I read here


## **Task 4: Resolve fiscal rescinded claim**

**From:** Partial Pay Claim Details page

**Task:**  *You submitted a claim to be reimbursed for traveling for a visit on April 2 but have not heard anything.  You want to follow up on that claim.  From here, show me where you would look for that information.

Please remember to think aloud and describe what you are looking for.
- I keep a copy of the claim and then I'd go to BTSSS
- If I neede to find it i'd go to BTSSS site
- I'd go back and go to past appointments
- Went back and found claim

**Questions from:** Fiscal Rescinded Claim Details page 

- Tell me what you are looking at.
  - Fiscal Rec - I have no idea what that means
- What has happened to your claim? What tells you that?
  - It's on hold
  - User look at claim defintion but didn't comprehend it
  - They are reimbursing me the amount based on that amount field
- What, if anything, do you think you can do from here? 
- What do you think your next step is for this claim? Is there one?
  - Contact local travel office
  - Reads status defintion
- Looking at this page, what information do you find most important? What information is least important?
  - 1 Status meaning tells me what has to be done
  - 2 The amounts because they are different
  - 3 


## **Reaction questions**

- Overall, how easy or difficult would you say this process for following up on a travel claim that you went through today was?
  - Somewhat difficult. Based on searching for tha answer I have to scroll through to find the answer
- What would you change about this process for following up on a travel claim?
  - Maybe so training. Send inforamtion out VA MHV with a video.
- Of everything that you looked at today, what would you say was the most confusing to you and why?
- What about this process would you keep?
- Is there anything else you would like to share that we have not covered? 



[In the rare case of an emergency during a session, be prepared with an [emergency exit strategy](https://depo-platform-documentation.scrollhelp.site/research-design/Research-Safety-and-Emergency-Exit-Strategies.2143649793.html#ResearchSafetyandEmergencyExitStrategies-Sampleexitstrategies). Plan to include here at least one option, so its easy to find during a session. Take some time to practice so it feels more comfortable.]
