# **Participant 6, 2025-05-06-2:30pm-ET**


## **Instructions**

We will be able to get ok transcripts from EnjoyHQ, so focus notes on observations, clearly defined interpretations, and impactful utterances.


* Focus on observations of user behavior.
    * Example of observation: “Participants clicks on My VA tab, hovers over X header, then back buttons to landing page.”
    * Example of observation: “Participant says ‘this is annoying, that makes no sense.’ when looking to login to BTSSS.”
* Be clear where notetaker is interpreting or making inferences of what participant is thinking/feeling
    * Example of interpretation: “Based on facial expressions, participant seems to be confused. Going back and forth between X and Y pages seems like they are looking for something.”
    * Example of interpretation: “Participant easily found link no frustration.”


**Task order used: **


## **Task 1: Find Claim Details(from My VA)**

**From:** My VA landing page

**Task:** Imagine that on May 1 you went to see your PCP at the Cheyenne VA.  After that visit, you submitted a claim request to be reimbursed for the cost of the gas and tolls you incurred going to that visit.  Now, you want to find out what has happened to that claim.  From here, show me where you would look for that information.

Please remember to think aloud and describe what you are looking for.  What are you looking for? 

**Questions** from: Submitted for Payment Claim Details page 
- User clicked MHV and found travel claim link
- It should go to BTSSS website
- User clicks and finds claim

- Tell me what you are looking at.
  - It's still in the submission status
  - I'd click inot the details adn it should come up with when it was submitting and it's status
  - Shows me the appointment and whenI submitted and updated
  - Documents
  - Amount and approved amount
-  What has happened to your claim? What tells you that?
  -  Submitted for payment
  -  This handy thing here (Status definition)
  -  The Submitted amounth and it says it righ there (Status)
  -  
-  What, if anything, do you think happens next for your claim?
  -  For me, nothing. In 3-10 days it'll be paid
-  What can you tell me about how much you are being reimbursed for?
  -  I think there is a deductible amount there but I don't know why it's different
   -  Probe: do they notice the gap between what they submitted for and what they got? Do they understand why there is a gap?
-  Looking at this page, what information do you find most important? What information is least important?
  - 1 Status defintion
  - 2 Amount
  - 3 THe day apporved (updated date)
  - 4 THe location of the medical center. I already know that
  - Least - Dcouments, unless it wasn't approved


## **Task 2: Find and appeal Denied Claim**

**From:** Submitted for Payment Claim Details page

**Task:** Now, imagine that you submitted a claim to be reimbursed for traveling for a visit on April 25, but you have not received payment.  You want to follow up on that claim.  From here, show me where you would look for that information.

Please remember to think aloud and describe what you are looking for.

**Questions from:** Denied Claim Details page 

- From the detail page I'd call.
- Navigated back to listing
- I'd go to this one...

- Tell me what you are looking at.
  - I'd click on what does this status mean
  - Then you can look in the letter
- What has happened to your claim? What tells you that?
  - It's denied
  - Looks through letter and finds denial reason
    - Probe: If they do not open the decision letter, prompt them to.  Gauge reaction to and comprehension of the letter. 
- What, if anything, do you think you can do from here?
  - I can appeal
  - On detail page I can download pdf file and submit through secure messaging
  - I can learn more with this link
  - User reads through decision revie page. "There's a lot of information here"
- Do you think you can appeal this denial?  Why or why not? What makes you say so?
  - I think you can appeal it but don't think you can win it
- If you wanted to appeal this denial, do you think that you can do that from here?
  - Higher level appeal info in letter
- If so, how would you expect to appeal this denial?
- Looking at this page, what information do you find most important? What information is least important?
  - 1 Status definiton
  - 2 Decision letter
  - 3 The appeal information
  - 4 The appeal link
  - Least - All the stuff at the bottom (footer?)


## **Task 3: Find partial pay claim**

**From:** Denied Claim Details page

**Task:** Now, imagine that several months ago you submitted another claim to be reimbursed for traveling for a visit.  You expected to be reimbursed around around $50 for this trip.  However, when you checked your account, you noticed that you were only paid around $20.  Now you want to learn more about why you did not receive that around $30 gap.  From here, show me where you would look for this information.  

Please remember to think aloud and describe what you are looking for.

**Questions from:** Paid (Partial) Claim Details page 
- GOes back to claims
- Clicks trhough multiple claims for the dollar amounts
- FInd the dollar mamount difference

- Tell me what you are looking at.
  - Looking at the dollar amount
  - Clicks on decsion letter
  - Loooks at letter
  - Calls outh the term "partial payment"
  - Find partial payment reason
- What has happened to your claim? What tells you that?
  - According to this (Letter) they only reimbursed for part of the trip
   - Probe: If they do not open the decision letter, prompt them to.  Gauge reaction to and comprehension of the letter. 
- What, if anything, do you think you can do from here?
  - I can appeal. I'd go back to the claim itself (on VA) and send a message to travel team
- Do you think you can appeal this denial?  Why or why not? What makes you say so?
  - 
- If you wanted to appeal this denial, do you think that you can do that from here?
  - I'd go to the travel team at the facility
  - Goes to find facility link and find the phone number
- If so, how would you expect to appeal this denial?
- Looking at this page, what information do you find most important? What information is least important?
  - 1 The amounts. It shows the difference
  - 2 Find your facility
  - 3 Options for apeal
  - 4 I guess the letter. It's importandt though
  - Least - Direct deposit. It should've been already done. 


## **Task 4: Resolve fiscal rescinded claim**

**From:** Partial Pay Claim Details page

**Task:**  *You submitted a claim to be reimbursed for traveling for a visit on April 2 but have not heard anything.  You want to follow up on that claim.  From here, show me where you would look for that information.

Please remember to think aloud and describe what you are looking for.


**Questions from:** Fiscal Rescinded Claim Details page 
- I'd go back to claim page and finds claim

- Tell me what you are looking at.
  - It says fiscal recinded and I hve no idea what this means
  - Clicks on definition
- What has happened to your claim? What tells you that?
  - Really not sure
  - How can the others work with the aback when this one hasn't
  - It's been approved but something has happened to it
- What, if anything, do you think you can do from here?
  - Call the travel dept
  - It's the first thing it (definition) tells you to do.
- What do you think your next step is for this claim? Is there one?
  - Go to find facility information
- Looking at this page, what information do you find most important? What information is least important?
  - 1 Claim status. I'm not sure what it menas but I know it's not good
  - 2 The defintion telling you to contact your department
  - 3 Started to say appeal section but realized it wasn't there. Need help section
  - 4 Learning how to set up direct deposit
  - Least - Documents submitted. It hasn't been pointed to for anything


## **Reaction questions**

- Overall, how easy or difficult would you say this process for following up on a travel claim that you went through today was?
  - Pretty easy. That particular page (details) is pretty intuitive. I actually just learned something there (appeal section)
- What would you change about this process for following up on a travel claim?
  - I don't think I would. It's a lot easier than some other things I have to deal with. It doens't need a lot of modification
- Of everything that you looked at today, what would you say was the most confusing to you and why?
  - Fiscal rec... drives me crazy. What does that even mean? There is no letter to explan what the issue was.
  - Add some detail about why we did this
- What about this process would you keep?
  - I'd keep all of it 
- Is there anything else you would like to share that we have not covered?
  - No. This is the one part I found surprisingly easy.



[In the rare case of an emergency during a session, be prepared with an [emergency exit strategy](https://depo-platform-documentation.scrollhelp.site/research-design/Research-Safety-and-Emergency-Exit-Strategies.2143649793.html#ResearchSafetyandEmergencyExitStrategies-Sampleexitstrategies). Plan to include here at least one option, so its easy to find during a session. Take some time to practice so it feels more comfortable.]
