# **Participant 5, 2025-05-06-1:00pm-ET**


## **Instructions**

We will be able to get ok transcripts from EnjoyHQ, so focus notes on observations, clearly defined interpretations, and impactful utterances.


* Focus on observations of user behavior.
    * Example of observation: “Participants clicks on My VA tab, hovers over X header, then back buttons to landing page.”
    * Example of observation: “Participant says ‘this is annoying, that makes no sense.’ when looking to login to BTSSS.”
* Be clear where notetaker is interpreting or making inferences of what participant is thinking/feeling
    * Example of interpretation: “Based on facial expressions, participant seems to be confused. Going back and forth between X and Y pages seems like they are looking for something.”
    * Example of interpretation: “Participant easily found link no frustration.”


**Task order used: **

- User found the travel page easily but wanted to go to past appointments
- After reading more they discovered the list of status


## **Task 1: Find Claim Details(from My VA)**

**From:** My VA landing page

**Task:** Imagine that on May 1 you went to see your PCP at the Cheyenne VA.  After that visit, you submitted a claim request to be reimbursed for the cost of the gas and tolls you incurred going to that visit.  Now, you want to find out what has happened to that claim.  From here, show me where you would look for that information.

Please remember to think aloud and describe what you are looking for.  What are you looking for? 

**Questions** from: Submitted for Payment Claim Details page 
- Found claim easily and opened claim detials

- Tell me what you are looking at.
  - I went straright to status b/c that tells me what I need to know
  - I can't tell from here why the price is different
  - I want to solve the issues of why it's 14 instead of 20 dollars
-  What has happened to your claim? What tells you that?
  -  It's finished and they are going to send payment
  -  They say I'm only reimbrsible for 14 dollars
  -  I'm reaing submitted and 
-  What, if anything, do you think happens next for your claim?
-  What can you tell me about how much you are being reimbursed for?
   -  Probe: do they notice the gap between what they submitted for and what they got? Do they understand why there is a gap?
-  Looking at this page, what information do you find most important? What information is least important?
  -  1 Status
  -  2 Reimbusement amount
  -  3 The help numnber
    - Honestly I'd just wait until I go to my next appointment
  -  4 Find facility
  - Least - Maybe the docs I submitted b/c I have them already


## **Task 2: Find and appeal Denied Claim**

**From:** Submitted for Payment Claim Details page

**Task:** Now, imagine that you submitted a claim to be reimbursed for traveling for a visit on April 25, but you have not received payment.  You want to follow up on that claim.  From here, show me where you would look for that information.

Please remember to think aloud and describe what you are looking for.

**Questions from:** Denied Claim Details page 

- Tell me what you are looking at.
  - Found easily
  - I see it's denied before I see apporved
  - Everythng we get ftrom the VA is denided fist. We come in ready for battle
- What has happened to your claim? What tells you that?
  - Download your decision letter. That's an awesome spot! These decsion letters are goldmines. Proof of why the VA screwed you.
  - It's a long letter. They gave you a lot of crap to look through
  - User understood the reason easily after finding it
    - Probe: If they do not open the decision letter, prompt them to.  Gauge reaction to and comprehension of the letter. 
- What, if anything, do you think you can do from here?
  - File an appeal
  - Just have to prove to them that it was covered to your connected.
  - If the link works. Yeah, you can do it from here.
  - Here's all the stupid 
- Do you think you can appeal this denial?  Why or why not? What makes you say so?
- If you wanted to appeal this denial, do you think that you can do that from here?
  - I see you can do it here but I'd probably go line by line on the letter
  - 
- If so, how would you expect to appeal this denial?
  - I'd print letter and scan everything and then upload eveything to the VA
  - The letter did a better job on the appeal
  - Reads Appeal section on details page
  - I wouldn't do that. I wouldn't have sent to the board of appeal
  - I'd just use the letter
- Looking at this page, what information do you find most important? What information is least important? 
- 1 - Learn how to appeal link. You're not going to get people to send a secure message. Submit a Board appeal? To who where why?
- 2 - Learn more about messages but I'd reword that paragraph
- 3 - Need help
- Least - Documents submitted. You already have that

## **Task 3: Find partial pay claim**

**From:** Denied Claim Details page

**Task:** Now, imagine that several months ago you submitted another claim to be reimbursed for traveling for a visit.  You expected to be reimbursed around around $50 for this trip.  However, when you checked your account, you noticed that you were only paid around $20.  Now you want to learn more about why you did not receive that around $30 gap.  From here, show me where you would look for this information.  

Please remember to think aloud and describe what you are looking for.

**Questions from:** Paid (Partial) Claim Details page 

- Tried to sort claims. Oldest appointment and find the status. Maybe I'd filter travel claims and there are the sorts. I'd take a day off and try to find that old ass appointment by month and year. The status filterdoens't have what I'm looking for.
- I'd try to search
- It's an old claim and go to the oldest one. The status is paid but you said they didn't give me all the money

- Tell me what you are looking at.
  - Let's open the decions leteter and fide out why
  - User saw the pharse "Partial payment" in the letter
  - 
- What has happened to your claim? What tells you that?
  - User saw the reason in the letter
  - It was only partially paid
   - Probe: If they do not open the decision letter, prompt them to.  Gauge reaction to and comprehension of the letter. 
- What, if anything, do you think you can do from here?
  - I'd file an appeal by printing the letter
- Do you think you can appeal this denial?  Why or why not? What makes you say so?
  - Yes. I'd show whatever documentaion and whatnot.
  - I'd also go to those CFRs
- If you wanted to appeal this denial, do you think that you can do that from here?
  - There is that poor sentience again (Appeal wording on detail page)
- If so, how would you expect to appeal this denial?
- Looking at this page, what information do you find most important? What information is least important?
  - 1 Claim staus. Paid staus is faulty. It's only partially paid
    - We owe the Veteran a better explination. Paid is 100% paid. IF you partially paid me you have to tell me. We need to be more clear.
  - 2 The amounts. It's good to have it here
  - 3 Help stuff
  - 4 Documents submitted
- Prompted to open status definition.
  - You wouldn't have to tell me that if the status was more clear


## **Task 4: Resolve fiscal rescinded claim**

**From:** Partial Pay Claim Details page

**Task:**  *You submitted a claim to be reimbursed for traveling for a visit on April 2 but have not heard anything.  You want to follow up on that claim.  From here, show me where you would look for that information.

Please remember to think aloud and describe what you are looking for.


**Questions from:** Fiscal Rescinded Claim Details page 

- Tell me what you are looking at.
  - Went to detial
  - Saw the status and read what status means
  - Understood that the bank account needs correcting
  - Found need help number
  - I'd make that number bigger
  - Nothing that says correct your account here
- What has happened to your claim? What tells you that?
- What, if anything, do you think you can do from here? 
- What do you think your next step is for this claim? Is there one?
- Looking at this page, what information do you find most important? What information is least important?
  - 1 - CLaim status b/c that what you look for to find what's happening with your claim
  - 2 - What status means. Fiscal recinded is big talkie words so we need help with that
  - 3 - How i Can fix it, from what's avaisble to me is the need help section
  - 4 - I guess I'd move direct deposit stuff
  - Least - Find the travel contact for your facility b/c I think we already know where to go


## **Reaction questions**

- Overall, how easy or difficult would you say this process for following up on a travel claim that you went through today was?
  - Very easy but we have to make it easier. Larger links and buttons.
- What would you change about this process for following up on a travel claim?
  - More succint ways to go to things and not go to this link and then this link
  - More desions on the from page
- Of everything that you looked at today, what would you say was the most confusing to you and why?
  - Travel keeps usiing there acronym BTTTTTSSSS. Just use the word travel. Do we have a call center that is just travel and have a button for that? On the first page.
- What about this process would you keep?
  - I'd keep status and decsion letter right there
- Is there anything else you would like to share that we have not covered?
  - I have not got TP in a while b/c it was too hard. I got tired of it.


[In the rare case of an emergency during a session, be prepared with an [emergency exit strategy](https://depo-platform-documentation.scrollhelp.site/research-design/Research-Safety-and-Emergency-Exit-Strategies.2143649793.html#ResearchSafetyandEmergencyExitStrategies-Sampleexitstrategies). Plan to include here at least one option, so its easy to find during a session. Take some time to practice so it feels more comfortable.]
