# **Participant 11, 2025-05-12-10:30am-ET**


## **Instructions**

We will be able to get ok transcripts from EnjoyHQ, so focus notes on observations, clearly defined interpretations, and impactful utterances.


* Focus on observations of user behavior.
    * Example of observation: “Participants clicks on My VA tab, hovers over X header, then back buttons to landing page.”
    * Example of observation: “Participant says ‘this is annoying, that makes no sense.’ when looking to login to BTSSS.”
* Be clear where notetaker is interpreting or making inferences of what participant is thinking/feeling
    * Example of interpretation: “Based on facial expressions, participant seems to be confused. Going back and forth between X and Y pages seems like they are looking for something.”
    * Example of interpretation: “Participant easily found link no frustration.”


**Task order used: **
Device: iPad
Order: 1,2,3,4


## **Task 1: Find Claim Details(from My VA)**

**From:** My VA landing page

**Task:** Imagine that on May 1 you went to see your PCP at the Cheyenne VA.  After that visit, you submitted a claim request to be reimbursed for the cost of the gas and tolls you incurred going to that visit.  Now, you want to find out what has happened to that claim.  From here, show me where you would look for that information.

Please remember to think aloud and describe what you are looking for.  What are you looking for? 

**Questions** from: Submitted for Payment Claim Details page 
- Goes to reveinw and file travel Claims link

- Tell me what you are looking at.
  - It has the appointmentmets with links to more details
  - It would be details specific to this claim
  - I wouldn't know what has happeded to my claim until I click the link
-  What has happened to your claim? What tells you that?
  -  Submitted for payment
  -  Some admin has reviewed it
  - It's in standby mode
-  What, if anything, do you think happens next for your claim?
  - It will be approved or denied and afterward it will be paid
-  What can you tell me about how much you are being reimbursed for?
  - Reads submitted and reimbursed.
  - It doesn't say it but VA has a detuctible. It's been my experience in the past
  - There is not a deciosn. It's submitted but not decieded
   -  Probe: do they notice the gap between what they submitted for and what they got? Do they understand why there is a gap?
-  Looking at this page, what information do you find most important? What information is least important?
  - 1 Claim status. I;m loing for submitted, in review, or approved
  - 2 Submitted and updated dates
  - 3 The appointment. At anytime you could have any number of appiontemnts
  - 4 Reminmursement amount
  - Least Documents you submitted b/c there is no document I submit (assuming SMOC claims)


## **Task 2: Find and appeal Denied Claim**

**From:** Submitted for Payment Claim Details page

**Task:** Now, imagine that you submitted a claim to be reimbursed for traveling for a visit on April 25, but you have not received payment.  You want to follow up on that claim.  From here, show me where you would look for that information.

Please remember to think aloud and describe what you are looking for.

**Questions from:** Denied Claim Details page 
- I'd go back and find appt

- Tell me what you are looking at.
  - I see the claim status says denied. Obv I want to know the reason and they want me to download the letter to see why
- What has happened to your claim? What tells you that?
  - Trying to find the area.
  - Finds the reason
    - Probe: If they do not open the decision letter, prompt them to.  Gauge reaction to and comprehension of the letter. 
- What, if anything, do you think you can do from here?
  - From the letter, I'd go to the VA form
  - From detail page, it gives you instructions to appeal. Sending amessage would be the easiset one
  - I don't know any Veteran that will send to the baord of a appeals for $35 dollars
  - Electroninc methods move fastest  
- Do you think you can appeal this denial?  Why or why not? What makes you say so?
  - If I want to appeal thsi is the process I have to go through.
  - You can fill out the hihger-level review with the form
- If you wanted to appeal this denial, do you think that you can do that from here? 
- If so, how would you expect to appeal this denial?
- Looking at this page, what information do you find most important? What information is least important?
  - 1 Claim status. It dirves me down to act
  - 2 Submitted and updated dates gives idea how much time has passed
  - 3 Appointment date and time
  - 4 Submitted amount
  - Least Claim status because that doesn't make sense to me to then have to go to another place to see why


## **Task 3: Find partial pay claim**

**From:** Denied Claim Details page

**Task:** Now, imagine that several months ago you submitted another claim to be reimbursed for traveling for a visit.  You expected to be reimbursed around around $50 for this trip.  However, when you checked your account, you noticed that you were only paid around $20.  Now you want to learn more about why you did not receive that around $30 gap.  From here, show me where you would look for this information.  

Please remember to think aloud and describe what you are looking for.

**Questions from:** Paid (Partial) Claim Details page 
- Goes back to list
- Tries to sort
- I have no idea. I'd have to click on a couple to see which one
- Clicks through a couple
- I'm looking for claim status paid about 3 months ago
- Directed to claim
- I guess by process of eleimination it's the one

- Tell me what you are looking at.
  - It says it's paid but doens't answer the why
  - To find that out I'd have to look at the decsion letter
  - Downloads decion letter
  - Sees the partial payment term in the letter
  - Goes to partial payment reason
  - 
- What has happened to your claim? What tells you that?
  - They have only decied to pay me half
   - Probe: If they do not open the decision letter, prompt them to.  Gauge reaction to and comprehension of the letter. 
- What, if anything, do you think you can do from here?
  - I can ask for reviews and appeals
- Do you think you can appeal this denial?  Why or why not? What makes you say so?
  - 
- If you wanted to appeal this denial, do you think that you can do that from here?
  - From the letter, it look slike it's sending to a form
  - From detail page, I'd fill out form and send secure message
- If so, how would you expect to appeal this denial?
- Looking at this page, what information do you find most important? What information is least important?
  - 1 The submitted and remiburesed amount. I'd want to know why.
  - 2 Claim status. It tells me it at least went through the process
  - 3 Where the appt was. It might force me to go back where I went vs where they say I should have gone
  - 4 Documsnts submitted
  - Least Where is confusiong b/c it's the place I went before and I didn't have this issue
  - 


## **Task 4: Resolve fiscal rescinded claim**

**From:** Partial Pay Claim Details page

**Task:**  *You submitted a claim to be reimbursed for traveling for a visit on April 2 but have not heard anything.  You want to follow up on that claim.  From here, show me where you would look for that information.

Please remember to think aloud and describe what you are looking for.
- Back to claim listing and to claim
- 

**Questions from:** Fiscal Rescinded Claim Details page 

- Tell me what you are looking at.
  - First thing I notice is Fis rec
  - I need to look at what it means (Clicks on status definition and comprehends what has happened and what to do)
  - 
- What has happened to your claim? What tells you that?
- What, if anything, do you think you can do from here?
  - Need help section to get help
- What do you think your next step is for this claim? Is there one?
  - Clicking on link and finding facility to find the contact info
- Looking at this page, what information do you find most important? What information is least important?
  - 1 Status. I immediate go to it to know what has happened
  - 2 The amounts. It lets me know it was approved
  - 3 Submitted and updated dates. i never see things move this fast
  - 4 Might be the claim number as the rep will need that
  - Least "If you are eligible..." section. It worked before why didn't it work now


## **Reaction questions**

- Overall, how easy or difficult would you say this process for following up on a travel claim that you went through today was?
  - More difficult that I was antiicpating. B/c I'm digging (going to other views) for information
  - If it's denied show me on the lsitng page
  - If it's paid, show me the amounts
- What would you change about this process for following up on a travel claim?
  - I'd put travel pay information in MyVA as it's buried as a hyperlink in the health section
  - There is no dashboard look to show actions
  - I wouldn't put travel pay with healthcare on MyVA
- Of everything that you looked at today, what would you say was the most confusing to you and why?
  - Navigating to the details to find they why in the letter
- What about this process would you keep?
  - I'd keep the listing page but add a bit more information on the items. It's much better than the old BTSSS site
- Is there anything else you would like to share that we have not covered?
  - If you have a less tech savvy person I'm not sure they'd go through all of this
  - VA has 3 way to do claims. BTSSS, text message, or theres kiosks. I'm confused on which way to do it. They varios ways work to varying degrees. They need to communicate the 30 day window.
  - Travel claim has been the most complex part of the whole VA benefits system



[In the rare case of an emergency during a session, be prepared with an [emergency exit strategy](https://depo-platform-documentation.scrollhelp.site/research-design/Research-Safety-and-Emergency-Exit-Strategies.2143649793.html#ResearchSafetyandEmergencyExitStrategies-Sampleexitstrategies). Plan to include here at least one option, so its easy to find during a session. Take some time to practice so it feels more comfortable.]
