# **Participant 10, 2025-05-09-1:30pm-ET**


## **Instructions**

We will be able to get ok transcripts from EnjoyHQ, so focus notes on observations, clearly defined interpretations, and impactful utterances.


* Focus on observations of user behavior.
    * Example of observation: “Participants clicks on My VA tab, hovers over X header, then back buttons to landing page.”
    * Example of observation: “Participant says ‘this is annoying, that makes no sense.’ when looking to login to BTSSS.”
* Be clear where notetaker is interpreting or making inferences of what participant is thinking/feeling
    * Example of interpretation: “Based on facial expressions, participant seems to be confused. Going back and forth between X and Y pages seems like they are looking for something.”
    * Example of interpretation: “Participant easily found link no frustration.”


**Task order used: **
Order: 4, 1, 2, 3
Using JAWS a little over a year but comfortable and labeled advanced

## **Task 1: Find Claim Details(from My VA)**

**From:** My VA landing page

**Task:** Imagine that on May 1 you went to see your PCP at the Cheyenne VA.  After that visit, you submitted a claim request to be reimbursed for the cost of the gas and tolls you incurred going to that visit.  Now, you want to find out what has happened to that claim.  From here, show me where you would look for that information.

Please remember to think aloud and describe what you are looking for.  What are you looking for? 

**Questions** from: Submitted for Payment Claim Details page 
- I'd go back
- Easily finds claim and goes to detail

- Tell me what you are looking at.
  - 
-  What has happened to your claim? What tells you that?
  -  It's approved
  -  Goes to "What does this status mean" to understand the claim
  -  I know that it's approved because it' sin the amount
-  What, if anything, do you think happens next for your claim?
  -  If I have the bank information then it will be deposted to my bank in a few days
-  What can you tell me about how much you are being reimbursed for?
  - It's another 6 dollar gap
  - I would've liked the claim staus saying approved, payemnt processing b/c I didn't know it was approved so I didn't have to go fishing through it to find out
  - I'm curious because it's the same difference. I'd look at the recipt to see where the difference is.
  - Maybe you only get reimbused for so many miles. I don't know the reasosong why they would make it different.
   -  Probe: do they notice the gap between what they submitted for and what they got? Do they understand why there is a gap?
-  Looking at this page, what information do you find most important? What information is least important?
  - 1 The status defintion b/c it says when they money will be there
    - This tells me that it's approved
  - 2 10 buiness days (Status definiton)
  - 3 Approved amount
  - Leaset - Submitted for payment b/c it's confusing. It's approved but when saying submitted I think it means "they" (TP office) submitted it.


## **Task 2: Find and appeal Denied Claim**

**From:** Submitted for Payment Claim Details page

**Task:** Now, imagine that you submitted a claim to be reimbursed for traveling for a visit on April 25, but you have not received payment.  You want to follow up on that claim.  From here, show me where you would look for that information.

Please remember to think aloud and describe what you are looking for.

**Questions from:** Denied Claim Details page 
- Goes back and finds claim

- Tell me what you are looking at.
  - It was denied
  - Goes to Claim detail and straight to claim status defintion
  - Oh it's an actual download (letter)
  - Uses Word's a11y tool to read the whole letter
  - 
- What has happened to your claim? What tells you that?
    - Probe: If they do not open the decision letter, prompt them to.  Gauge reaction to and comprehension of the letter. 
- What, if anything, do you think you can do from here? 
- Do you think you can appeal this denial?  Why or why not? What makes you say so?
- If you wanted to appeal this denial, do you think that you can do that from here?
  - I'd click the link from the letter
  - Yes, I can do it from the claim page
  - 
- If so, how would you expect to appeal this denial?
- Looking at this page, what information do you find most important? What information is least important?
  - 1 What does status mean
  - 2 letter
  - 3 Appeal section
  - Least - The eligible for reimbursement section


## **Task 3: Find partial pay claim**

**From:** Denied Claim Details page

**Task:** Now, imagine that several months ago you submitted another claim to be reimbursed for traveling for a visit.  You expected to be reimbursed around around $50 for this trip.  However, when you checked your account, you noticed that you were only paid around $20.  Now you want to learn more about why you did not receive that around $30 gap.  From here, show me where you would look for this information.  

Please remember to think aloud and describe what you are looking for.

**Questions from:** Paid (Partial) Claim Details page 
- BAck to claims
- Withouth the exact date I'll have to go one by one
- Found it by the amount

- Tell me what you are looking at.
  - Finds the reason (status defintion) and goes straight to claim letter and found the reason
- What has happened to your claim? What tells you that?
  - I used a different faciliyt and caclutaed the price based on a closer facility
  - 
   - Probe: If they do not open the decision letter, prompt them to.  Gauge reaction to and comprehension of the letter. 
- What, if anything, do you think you can do from here?
  - I can appeal with the forms and the links
- Do you think you can appeal this denial?  Why or why not? What makes you say so?
- If you wanted to appeal this denial, do you think that you can do that from here? 
- If so, how would you expect to appeal this denial?
- Looking at this page, what information do you find most important? What information is least important?
  - 1 The wole claim status section - What does this status mean and the letter
  - Leaset - Nothing. Everything you need to know is here


## **Task 4: Resolve fiscal rescinded claim**

**From:** Partial Pay Claim Details page

**Task:**  *You submitted a claim to be reimbursed for traveling for a visit on April 2 but have not heard anything.  You want to follow up on that claim.  From here, show me where you would look for that information.

Please remember to think aloud and describe what you are looking for.

- Looking at the claim status card
- Went to the travel page "Its the most logic"
- 


**Questions from:** Fiscal Rescinded Claim Details page 

- Tell me what you are looking at.
  - Looking for the claimby date
  - It's Fisc recind, I don't know what that means
  - I'm on the claim
  - I'm ablout to find out as I'm going to click on what does this status mean
  - Understands that the account doesn't work
- What has happened to your claim? What tells you that?
- What, if anything, do you think you can do from here?
  -  Set up direct deposit or call for help
  -  I'd look into DD and figure that out and call if I have trouble
- What do you think your next step is for this claim? Is there one?
- Looking at this page, what information do you find most important? What information is least important?
  - 1 What does the status mean as it explains why I didin't get it
  - 2 Amount helps
  - 3 Contact section
  - Least - I don't think there is a least. Everything is exactly what you'd need


## **Reaction questions**

- Overall, how easy or difficult would you say this process for following up on a travel claim that you went through today was?
  - Very clear with no dificulties. It gives you all your information
- What would you change about this process for following up on a travel claim?
  - Nothing.
- Of everything that you looked at today, what would you say was the most confusing to you and why?
  - 
- What about this process would you keep?
  - 
- Is there anything else you would like to share that we have not covered?
  - One thing, if you have a lot of claims, I'd have open and lcose dclaims to sort by... oh, you already have it (sorting and filtering) 



[In the rare case of an emergency during a session, be prepared with an [emergency exit strategy](https://depo-platform-documentation.scrollhelp.site/research-design/Research-Safety-and-Emergency-Exit-Strategies.2143649793.html#ResearchSafetyandEmergencyExitStrategies-Sampleexitstrategies). Plan to include here at least one option, so its easy to find during a session. Take some time to practice so it feels more comfortable.]  
