# **Participant 3, 2025-05-05-2:30pm-ET**


## **Instructions**

We will be able to get ok transcripts from EnjoyHQ, so focus notes on observations, clearly defined interpretations, and impactful utterances.


* Focus on observations of user behavior.
    * Example of observation: “Participants clicks on My VA tab, hovers over X header, then back buttons to landing page.”
    * Example of observation: “Participant says ‘this is annoying, that makes no sense.’ when looking to login to BTSSS.”
* Be clear where notetaker is interpreting or making inferences of what participant is thinking/feeling
    * Example of interpretation: “Based on facial expressions, participant seems to be confused. Going back and forth between X and Y pages seems like they are looking for something.”
    * Example of interpretation: “Participant easily found link no frustration.”


**Task order used: **


## **Task 1: Find Claim Details(from My VA)**

**From:** My VA landing page

**Task:** Imagine that on May 1 you went to see your PCP at the Cheyenne VA.  After that visit, you submitted a claim request to be reimbursed for the cost of the gas and tolls you incurred going to that visit.  Now, you want to find out what has happened to that claim.  From here, show me where you would look for that information.

Please remember to think aloud and describe what you are looking for.  What are you looking for? 

**Questions** from: Submitted for Payment Claim Details page 

- Tell me what you are looking at.
  - Same process
-  What has happened to your claim? What tells you that?
  -  Submitted for payment however there is a 6 dolar diff. I know there is a deductible b/c I read it. I don't sere it here.
  -  Submittedof rpayment means they approved it but thye need someone to cuts check or does the wire
-  What, if anything, do you think happens next for your claim?
-  What can you tell me about how much you are being reimbursed for?
   -  Probe: do they notice the gap between what they submitted for and what they got? Do they understand why there is a gap?
-  Looking at this page, what information do you find most important? What information is least important?
  - 1st amount
  - 2nd Status
  - 3rd THe update. When did they update it
    - I don't know if it was submitted on May 1st but I see it was updated. This shows me if it's a standard claim that there must be some kind of auto check for claims
  - 4th - Direct deposit is correct
  - 5th - Submitted amount for tracking purposes
  - Least - Claim number. I don't much pay attention to that


## **Task 2: Find and appeal Denied Claim**

**From:** Submitted for Payment Claim Details page

**Task:** Now, imagine that you submitted a claim to be reimbursed for traveling for a visit on April 25, but you have not received payment.  You want to follow up on that claim.  From here, show me where you would look for that information.

Please remember to think aloud and describe what you are looking for.

**Questions from:** Denied Claim Details page 

- Tell me what you are looking at.
  - Go to Review and file travel calim and check claim status to find out why
  - The details show status denied
  - Notices appeal
- What has happened to your claim? What tells you that?
  - Says it's denied from the status
  - Youcan open the decsion letter and I'd hoep it would give me more details
  - Waits for Android to convert the docx to pdf
  - Reads letter and finds the reason
  - If I agreed with the reason I'd let it go. If not I'd look at what I submitted as I saw it on the claim details
  - If I felt the were in error then I'd submit for appeal
    - Probe: If they do not open the decision letter, prompt them to.  Gauge reaction to and comprehension of the letter. 
- What, if anything, do you think you can do from here? 
- Do you think you can appeal this denial?  Why or why not? What makes you say so?
- If you wanted to appeal this denial, do you think that you can do that from here?
  - I cold do it now and I'd need the form and my doctor notes.
  - I'd have to mail it and that address would be on the document. I see it at the bottom of the form (PDF)
- If so, how would you expect to appeal this denial?
- Antying else
  - Sometimes in other claims you submit online through VA.gov. I'm not sure if travel claims are handled the same way as other claims
- Looking at this page, what information do you find most important? What information is least important?
  - How to appeal it and learn how to appeal
  - 2nd - MAking sure direct depost is set up correctly
  - 3rd - travel contact
  - 4th - Amount
  - Least - I think it's all important


## **Task 3: Find partial pay claim**

**From:** Denied Claim Details page

**Task:** Now, imagine that several months ago you submitted another claim to be reimbursed for traveling for a visit.  You expected to be reimbursed around around $50 for this trip.  However, when you checked your account, you noticed that you were only paid around $20.  Now you want to learn more about why you did not receive that around $30 gap.  From here, show me where you would look for this information.  

Please remember to think aloud and describe what you are looking for.

**Questions from:** Paid (Partial) Claim Details page 

- Tell me what you are looking at.
  - User not sure where to look on listing page and needed to look through each claim detail based on price
  - I see it was paid but I need to look at the decison letter to see why it's only 20
  - User finds the reason in the decsion letter
  - "I would challenge the decision"
- What has happened to your claim? What tells you that?
   - Probe: If they do not open the decision letter, prompt them to.  Gauge reaction to and comprehension of the letter. 
- What, if anything, do you think you can do from here?
  - I would put it in paper to disagree with the appeal section
- Do you think you can appeal this denial?  Why or why not? What makes you say so?
- If you wanted to appeal this denial, do you think that you can do that from here?
  - Fill out form and mail it
  - I'd use the same process for other claims but I'm not sure if it's the same for travle claims
- If so, how would you expect to appeal this denial?
- Looking at this page, what information do you find most important? What information is least important? 
  - 1st Claim decsion letter
  - 2nd Amounts becuase there was a descrepancey more than the 6 dollars
  - 3rd Dates
  - 4th Claim number. It's the leaset important but where there an issue it's the fastest way for them to find it
  - Least Claim numner. I don' t care about it but support people do

## **Task 4: Resolve fiscal rescinded claim**

**From:** Partial Pay Claim Details page

**Task:**  *You submitted a claim to be reimbursed for traveling for a visit on April 2 but have not heard anything.  You want to follow up on that claim.  From here, show me where you would look for that information.

Please remember to think aloud and describe what you are looking for.


**Questions from:** Fiscal Rescinded Claim Details page 

- Tell me what you are looking at.
  - Not sure what that mean (Fis Rec)
  - Looks like it's paid but I'm guessing they shouldn't have paid it.
  - I'd be calling for help and talk to a live person about fis rec
  - I'd think the BTSSS call center would be able to find that info
- What has happened to your claim? What tells you that?
  - Acutally there is a thing here that tells what it is... (Clicks on defintion and understands)
- What, if anything, do you think you can do from here?
  - Call for help to BTSSS and I beleive I can update bank info here on VA.gov
- What do you think your next step is for this claim? Is there one?
  - After the claim is approved they'd process payment
  - It says they tried to pay it but couldn't becasue of bank info
- Looking at this page, what information do you find most important? What information is least important?
  - 1st Claim status
  - 2nd The fact that the claim was approved from the details of the claim
  - 3rd Dates, you don't want to wait too long
  - 4th Documents submitted and claim number
  - Least 


## **Reaction questions**

- Overall, how easy or difficult would you say this process for following up on a travel claim that you went through today was?
  - Fairly easy
- What would you change about this process for following up on a travel claim?
  - There might be some kind of a train guide that can help people to help with different claim types.
  - User made refence to "partial payment" unprompted when referring to that scenario
- Of everything that you looked at today, what would you say was the most confusing to you and why?
  - Nothing
- What about this process would you keep?
  - All of it
- Is there anything else you would like to share that we have not covered?
  - A training guide document with the status defintion and decsion letter



[In the rare case of an emergency during a session, be prepared with an [emergency exit strategy](https://depo-platform-documentation.scrollhelp.site/research-design/Research-Safety-and-Emergency-Exit-Strategies.2143649793.html#ResearchSafetyandEmergencyExitStrategies-Sampleexitstrategies). Plan to include here at least one option, so its easy to find during a session. Take some time to practice so it feels more comfortable.]
