# **Participant #12, 2025-05-12-12:00pm-ET**


## **Instructions**

We will be able to get ok transcripts from EnjoyHQ, so focus notes on observations, clearly defined interpretations, and impactful utterances.


* Focus on observations of user behavior.
    * Example of observation: “Participants clicks on My VA tab, hovers over X header, then back buttons to landing page.”
    * Example of observation: “Participant says ‘this is annoying, that makes no sense.’ when looking to login to BTSSS.”
* Be clear where notetaker is interpreting or making inferences of what participant is thinking/feeling
    * Example of interpretation: “Based on facial expressions, participant seems to be confused. Going back and forth between X and Y pages seems like they are looking for something.”
    * Example of interpretation: “Participant easily found link no frustration.”


**Task order used: **
Order 2, 1, 4, 3
iPad wiht enhanced Zoom

## **Task 1: Find Claim Details(from My VA)**

**From:** My VA landing page

**Task:** Imagine that on May 1 you went to see your PCP at the Cheyenne VA.  After that visit, you submitted a claim request to be reimbursed for the cost of the gas and tolls you incurred going to that visit.  Now, you want to find out what has happened to that claim.  From here, show me where you would look for that information.

Please remember to think aloud and describe what you are looking for.  What are you looking for? 

**Questions** from: Submitted for Payment Claim Details page 
- Goes back to claims

- Tell me what you are looking at.
-  What has happened to your claim? What tells you that?
  - It's still pending. They haven't made a deciosn yet.
  - I'm looking if it's paid or denied becaus it says submitted for paymnet
  - 
-  What, if anything, do you think happens next for your claim?
  - I'd wait 30 days and then I'm calling to find out a status
-  What can you tell me about how much you are being reimbursed for?
  -  I put in for 20 and I got 14.
  -  That's a 6 dollar difference. I'm a littel confused. Why it was less? Who put that amount on there?
  -  They didn't pay me for something.
  -  I'd imaigne they will tell you why there is a difference
   -  Probe: do they notice the gap between what they submitted for and what they got? Do they understand why there is a gap?
-  Looking at this page, what information do you find most important? What information is least important?
  - 1 They recieved it. THe updated date
  - 2 The amount difference
  - Least Not tellimg me what BTSSS means
- Discovered the claim status at the end.
  - Oh, they told me they submitted the 14 dollars
  - I'd look at the documetes I submitted to see if I made a mistake


## **Task 2: Find and appeal Denied Claim**

**From:** Submitted for Payment Claim Details page

**Task:** Now, imagine that you submitted a claim to be reimbursed for traveling for a visit on April 25, but you have not received payment.  You want to follow up on that claim.  From here, show me where you would look for that information.

Please remember to think aloud and describe what you are looking for.

**Questions from:** Denied Claim Details page 
- Goes to the first claim status card
- I don't need appointments. I need claims
- It's not showing hte claim you mentioned
- I don't need health care
- Looking for where it says travel
- I'd call the VA at this point
- Direct to the links and then found it

- Tell me what you are looking at.
  - Denied. Why? that's what I have to find out
  - I'd go to the details
- What has happened to your claim? What tells you that?
  - I'm trying to find the why
  - Reads the status definiotn
  - Downloads letter
  - Takes a long time to get down to the decsion
  - Found the reason
    - Probe: If they do not open the decision letter, prompt them to.  Gauge reaction to and comprehension of the letter.
    - They made a decion but I don't know what.
- What, if anything, do you think you can do from here?
  - If you disagree section. I can do something from there
  - I could appeal the decsion
- Do you think you can appeal this denial?  Why or why not? What makes you say so?
  - It does tell me how I can from here (Appeal section)
- If you wanted to appeal this denial, do you think that you can do that from here?
  - I'd call the VA. I did that in the past but it never came so I just said forget it
- If so, how would you expect to appeal this denial?
- Looking at this page, what information do you find most important? What information is least important?
  - 1 See why they denied me
  - 2 How can I appeal
  - 3 


## **Task 3: Find partial pay claim**

**From:** Denied Claim Details page

**Task:** Now, imagine that several months ago you submitted another claim to be reimbursed for traveling for a visit.  You expected to be reimbursed around around $50 for this trip.  However, when you checked your account, you noticed that you were only paid around $20.  Now you want to learn more about why you did not receive that around $30 gap.  From here, show me where you would look for this information.  

Please remember to think aloud and describe what you are looking for.

**Questions from:** Paid (Partial) Claim Details page 

- Tell me what you are looking at.
- What has happened to your claim? What tells you that?
   - Probe: If they do not open the decision letter, prompt them to.  Gauge reaction to and comprehension of the letter. 
- What, if anything, do you think you can do from here? 
- Do you think you can appeal this denial?  Why or why not? What makes you say so?
- If you wanted to appeal this denial, do you think that you can do that from here? 
- If so, how would you expect to appeal this denial?
- Looking at this page, what information do you find most important? What information is least important? 


## **Task 4: Resolve fiscal rescinded claim**

**From:** Partial Pay Claim Details page

**Task:**  *You submitted a claim to be reimbursed for traveling for a visit on April 2 but have not heard anything.  You want to follow up on that claim.  From here, show me where you would look for that information.

Please remember to think aloud and describe what you are looking for.


**Questions from:** Fiscal Rescinded Claim Details page 

- Tell me what you are looking at.
- What has happened to your claim? What tells you that?
- What, if anything, do you think you can do from here? 
- What do you think your next step is for this claim? Is there one?
- Looking at this page, what information do you find most important? What information is least important? 


## **Reaction questions**

- Overall, how easy or difficult would you say this process for following up on a travel claim that you went through today was?
  - It wasn't hard to find it but I think it should have it's own area (on MyVA).
  - Once I found it I understood what I could do in the future
- What would you change about this process for following up on a travel claim?
- Of everything that you looked at today, what would you say was the most confusing to you and why?
- What about this process would you keep?
- Is there anything else you would like to share that we have not covered? 



[In the rare case of an emergency during a session, be prepared with an [emergency exit strategy](https://depo-platform-documentation.scrollhelp.site/research-design/Research-Safety-and-Emergency-Exit-Strategies.2143649793.html#ResearchSafetyandEmergencyExitStrategies-Sampleexitstrategies). Plan to include here at least one option, so its easy to find during a session. Take some time to practice so it feels more comfortable.]
