Caregiver Usability Study Notes
=============================================

Participant 1, 2/16/2021, 1 PM EST 


Thanks for joining us today! My name is Jonathan and I also have some colleagues on the line observing and taking notes. Today we're going to review a prototype about federal benefits that are provided to caregivers of Veterans.

- This entire session should take about 45 minutes. I want to be sure not to keep you much longer, so I may occasionally prompt you with the next question or topic.
- In this session, we want to hear your honest opinions. We are not testing your ability. We just want to improve these tools to better meet Veteran's needs. I will not be offended by any opinions you express, and I welcome your feedback.
- You'll be interacting with a prototypes and a demo tool. This is a demo tool that may not function exactly the way you expect. Some areas of the prototype will be clickable, and some will not. Since it's a demo, none of your actions will affect your actual VA information or benefits.
- Please talk aloud as you're looking through things. For example, say "now I'd click on this.. what's this?" This helps me understand what's going through your head while using the tool.
- To protect your privacy, we are not going to use your real name or Social Security Number today. Feel free to make-up a name, birthday, SSN...I can always provide that information if you want
- If for any reason and at any time you want to stop the session, please let me know.

**Recording Instructions**

- **Are you comfortable if I record my screen and audio as we talk today?** We use the recordings to confirm that we have captured your opinions accurately. The recordings are destroyed after we complete analysis, and none of your comments will be attributed to you directly. 
    - If yes: **Once I start recording, I am going to confirm that you are ok with me recording this session once more.** 

*Start recording to the Cloud.*

- **I have started recording. I'd like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record my screen and audio as we talk today?"** 

I have started recording. I'd like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record my screen and audio as we talk today?"

Participant: “Yes.”

Warm-up Questions - 5 minutes
For Veterans:

For Caregivers:

Tell me a little bit about yourself

**Participant:** “I am a mom of 2 daughters, a wife and a huge pet lover. I have 2 fur babies and I have an older dog myself. I’m a grandma of 2 awesome boys. I’m studying for funeral services. I have active duty myself for the National Guard.”

Tell me a bit about the relationship you have with the Veteran?

**Participant:** “I am a spouse and mom of a veteran.”

Is the Veteran you are providing caregiving, a family member or friend?

**Participant:** “Yes, I resigned my job about 3 years ago to assist my daughter and husband with childcare. I love it. I help my husband and I am grateful to help them. I’ve been married 30 years and I love taking care of my family.”
Do you receive any benefits from the VA? -If yes, what sort of benefits? -Are you part of the Program of Comprehensive Assistance for Family Caregivers?

**Participant:** “I don’t personally. My husband and daughter receive benefits.”

Facilitator: “Are you currently living with your husband?”

**Participant:** “Yes.”

Facilitator: “What kind of benefits does he receive?”

**Participant:** “I do not know.”

**Participant:** “I am not currently a part of the program.”

Facilitator: “Does your daughter live in the same household as well?”

**Participant:** “No she does not.”

Does the Veteran have more than one caregiver? -If yes, can you tell me a bit about that situation?

**Participant:** “It’s just me.”


**Applying for benefits task with first representative option - 15 minutes**

Now that I understand a little bit more about your background.
For Veterans:
Let's say you heard about a way you and your caregiver could receive benefits from the VA, and that you could apply online at VA.gov. You have navigated to the screen we are looking at. Now let's imagine you've decided you'd like to apply for these benefits. Go ahead and show us what you would do to apply.
For Caregivers:
Let's say you heard about a way you could receive benefits from the VA, and that you could apply online at VA.gov. You have navigated to the screen we are looking at. Now let's imagine you've decided you'd like to apply for these benefits. Go ahead and show us what you would do to apply.
Things to watch for:
In general, we want to sit back and watch them, but if they hesitate you can say “I noticed you hesitate here, what are you thinking?”
Remind participants to think out loud.
Any hiccups? Do they know all the information?
Participant did not know if she’s eligible to apply or not.
Any fields trip them up?
Participant misread the question “Would you like to add a Primary Family Caregiver?” as “Would you like to add a Primary Family Physician?”
Anything particularly confusing for them?
Participant was confused between primary caregiver and secondary caregiver. Participant was confused if the caregiver needs to be in the same household. She did not click on the drop box to understand the definitions.
Participant had to keep reminding herself that the application was for the caregiver and not the veteran.
Pay close attention to the representative and document upload sections
What documents would you upload here?
Participant: “I would think that my marriage license would be sufficient enough. Then, I would click on what documents I can upload.”
Would you have them on hand?
If on mobile, what would you do?
Make sure to dig in when there's any hesitation into what they are thinking
Any confusion understanding primary and secondary caregivers?
Yes.
Participant: “I noticed the drop box, but I did not think I would need to use it. It would have been very helpful for me. The list of people considered a caregiver is useful. The Friend & neighbor on the list helped clarify. I assumed a caregiver would have to be in the same household as the veteran.”
Post task questions - 10 minutes
Wonderful! I have a few questions about what you just saw in the prototype.
What did you think of the overall experience in completing this form?
Participant: “I think everything was laid out and self-explanatory. The individual will have to slow down and re-read questions to answer proper. It was laid out very easy.”
What was the hardest part of completing the form? Were there any areas you felt were unclear?
What worked well?
Participant: “I liked that after I submit my application, I can print out the page and it tells me what to expect next.”
I'm going to quickly show you my screen (moderator shares screen with “representative” question)
Can you tell me how you decided/knew that you were/weren’t a representative?
Participant: “I selected ‘no’ because it asked me about dealing with an attorney. I looked at my personal self and I know that was not applicable. I didn’t assume just because I was married to the veteran that I was applicable.”
If they were confused when completing this section. What could we do to improve the information around representatives?
Participant: “It is leading me to believe I need a legal document before I can fill out the caregiver application. Or, thinking that it would render the decision if I am qualified to be a caregiver.”
Can you elaborate on your reasoning for your selection?
If not addressed in tasks
What documents would you upload here?
Would you have them on hand?
If on mobile, what would you do?
Wrap-up questions - 5 minutes
Any other thoughts about the form?
Participant: “This is great information to know.”
Do you have any questions for me before we conclude?
Participant: “Is this real? Can the VA recognize a caregiver?”
Thank you and Closing
Well we really appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us today. Your feedback is so helpful to us as we continue to improve our products and services for Veterans and service members. Great, thank you so much again, and enjoy the rest of your day!



Great. Now we're really ready to begin!

## Warm-up Questions - 5 minutes

**For Veterans:**
- Tell me a little about yourself 

P: 

- Do you currently have a caregiver? If so, tell me a bit about the relationship you have with your caregiver?

- Are they a family member or friend?

P: 
- Do they live with you?

P: 

  - If no, how often do they come over to check in on you?

P: 

- Does your caregiver receive any benefits from the VA?

P: 

  -If yes, what sort of benefits?
  
P: 

  -Are you/they part of the Program of Comprehensive Assistance for Family Caregivers?
  
P: 

-Do you have more than one caregivers?

P: 

-If yes,  tell me a bit about that relationship?
  
P: 

-Are they a family member or friend?

P: 

- Do they live with you?

P: 

**For Caregivers:**
- Tell me a little bit about yourself

P: 

- Tell me a bit about the relationship you have with the Veteran?

P: 
- Is the Veteran you are providing caregiving, a family member or friend? 

P: 

- Do you receive any benefits from the VA?

P: 

  -If yes, what sort of benefits?
  
P: 

  -Are you part of the Program of Comprehensive Assistance for Family Caregivers?
  
P: 

- Does the Veteran have more than one caregiver?

P: 

-If yes, can you tell me a bit about that situation?

P: 

 - Are they a family member or friend?

P: 

  - Do they live with the Veteran?

P: 

## Applying for benefits task with first representative option - 15 minutes

Now that I understand a little bit more about your background. 

**For Veterans:**

Let's say you heard about a way you and your caregiver could receive benefits from the VA, and that you could apply online at VA.gov. You have navigated to the screen we are looking at. Now let's imagine you've decided you'd like to apply for these benefits. Go ahead and show us what you would do to apply. 

**For Caregivers:**

Let's say you heard about a way you could receive benefits from the VA, and that you could apply online at VA.gov. You have navigated to the screen we are looking at. Now let's imagine you've decided you'd like to apply for these benefits. Go ahead and show us what you would do to apply. 

Things to watch for:

In general, we want to sit back and watch them, but if they hesitate you can say “I noticed you hesitate here, what are you thinking?”

- Remind participants to think out loud. 
- Any hiccups? Do they know all the information?
- Any fields trip them up?
- Anything particularly confusing for them?
- Pay close attention to the representative and document upload sections 
  - What documents would you upload here?
  - Would you have themn on hand? 
  - If on mobile, what would you do?
- Make sure to dig in when there's any hesitation into what they are thinking
- Any confusion understanding primary and secondary caregivers?

## Post task questions - 10 minutes

Wonderful! I have a few questions about what you just saw in the prototype.

- What did you think of the overall experience in completing this form?

P: 

- What was the hardest part of completing the form? Were there any areas you felt were unclear? 

P: 

- What worked well? 

P: 

- I'm going to quickly show you my screen (moderator shares screen with “representative” question)
   - Can you tell me how you decided/knew that you were/weren’t a representative?
   - _If they were confused when completing this section._ What could we do to improve the information around representatives? 
   - Can you elaborate on your reasoning for your selection?
- _If not addressed in tasks_ 
  -  What documents would you upload here?
  -  Would you have themn on hand? 
  -  If on mobile, what would you do?

P: 
## Wrap-up questions - 5 minutes

- Any other thoughts about the form?

P: 

- Do you have any questions for me before we conclude?

P: 
 
## Thank you and Closing

Well we really appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us today. Your feedback is so helpful to us as we continue to improve our products and services for Veterans and service members.
Great, thank you so much again, and enjoy the rest of your day!
