Caregiver Usability Study Notes
=============================================

Participant 10, 2/23/2021, 10:30 AM 

**Note: This participant is a caregiver**

Thanks for joining us today! My name is Jonathan and I also have some colleagues on the line observing and taking notes. Today we're going to review a prototype about federal benefits that are provided to caregivers of Veterans.

- This entire session should take about 45 minutes. I want to be sure not to keep you much longer, so I may occasionally prompt you with the next question or topic.
- In this session, we want to hear your honest opinions. We are not testing your ability. We just want to improve these tools to better meet Veteran's needs. I will not be offended by any opinions you express, and I welcome your feedback.
- You'll be interacting with a prototypes and a demo tool. This is a demo tool that may not function exactly the way you expect. Some areas of the prototype will be clickable, and some will not. Since it's a demo, none of your actions will affect your actual VA information or benefits.
- Please talk aloud as you're looking through things. For example, say "now I'd click on this.. what's this?" This helps me understand what's going through your head while using the tool.
- To protect your privacy, we are not going to use your real name or Social Security Number today. Feel free to make-up a name, birthday, SSN...I can always provide that information if you want
- If for any reason and at any time you want to stop the session, please let me know.

**Recording Instructions**

- **Are you comfortable if I record my screen and audio as we talk today?** We use the recordings to confirm that we have captured your opinions accurately. The recordings are destroyed after we complete analysis, and none of your comments will be attributed to you directly. 
    - If yes: **Once I start recording, I am going to confirm that you are ok with me recording this session once more.** 

*Start recording to the Cloud.*

- **I have started recording. I'd like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record my screen and audio as we talk today?"** 

P: Yes

Great. Now we're really ready to begin!

## Warm-up Questions - 5 minutes

**For Caregivers:**

M: Tell me a little bit about yourself

P: Obviously I am married to a veteran who is 100% service-connected disabled. He has MS and I take care of appointments, medications, send messages to the doctors as I feel are needed. I also am disabled, so I’m home with him all of the time. There is nobody else that comes into the house. We have a teenage son who also lives here and is going to college online - fun stuff! 

M: Do you receive any benefits from the VA?

P: Not from the VA. I have the CHAMPVA medical insurance, but that’s all that I receive.

M: Anyone else helping with care?

P: I have a daughter who will step in and has a couple of times. She has stepped in if things go sideways. 

M: You said your son lives with you, but your daughter does not.

P: Correct.

## Applying for benefits task with first representative option - 15 minutes

Now that I understand a little bit more about your background. 

**For Caregivers:**

Let's say you heard about a way you could receive benefits from the VA, and that you could apply online at VA.gov. You have navigated to the screen we are looking at. Now let's imagine you've decided you'd like to apply for these benefits. Go ahead and show us what you would do to apply. 

M: Have you heard about the program at all?

P: I have heard about it a little bit but haven’t dived into it at all. I have a private disability insurance and they said that if I receive money from anywhere else then they won’t pay. So I haven’t dived into this.

M: This won’t impact your benefits

P: Information for me is beneficial as well! 

M: (Reads the task prompt)

P: Well, I would have obviously navigated to this screen first and I’d click on ‘start your application’. (Selects button) And then I would read the information. Having a bit of trouble scrolling… so then of course I would read all of this about legal representative or someone with power of attorney and fill out this application on behalf of a Veteran. This is confusing because ‘on behalf of the Veteran’ (Reads the content again out loud) ‘Are you filling out this application as a Veteran’s legal representative?’ I would select ‘Yes’

M: You mentioned it would confuse you. Why?

P: Because I would wonder if I’m filling this application for a Veteran, so I’m wondering am I filling it out for him or for my status as a representative. I’m hoping a marriage license works! We make decisions for one another, but I’m not sure if it’s a legally binding contract or we’d need something further. I don’t know if that’s your area or if you’re just working on the website. 

M: Yeah, I’m mostly just working on these tools and applications. 

P: So it’s got this box that says ‘What documents can I submit to show legal status’ and I’d want to click on that (Clicks on it and reads out the content) So I do not have a legal document or Power of Attorney or any of that. So, in that case I would probably make a phone call and talk to somebody at the VA to say, “So, how.. (sighs) I would want to know if they are very set on this current Power of Attorney or”… similar legal document… I’m not sure what that would be but that would be a question for my attorney.

M: Now that you’ve read this, show me what you would do!

P: Well after I got an answer that satisfied me I would hit ‘Continue’. There is a little bit more down on the page isn’t there… Ah, there we go! (scrolls to the ‘Need help?’ content) 

M: You mentioned ‘a sufficient answer’ or meets your expectations. What would that answer be?

P: We both have a will naming the other as beneficiary but I don’t think that covers where we’re both living. A marriage license, I would hope that would work, but I guess there’s couples out there who don’t make these decisions on behalf of the other. I think I need to contact my attorney if that’s the case. I’m assuming there’s a page out here and this is an updated version - or is this new?

M: In terms of the website?

P: Yes

M: Yeah, this is a new thing we’re getting in front of users to get feedback on. I know you selected ‘Yes’ and you came to this page. Can you tell me about this screen? 

P: Okay, (reads the content out loud) so I have a Brother scanner/printer that I would grab my documents I got freshly from my lawyer and scan them in, upload them… 

M: Okay, got it! So in order to upload the supporting documentation you would borrow the scanner from your brother and upload the document. And at this point it would be the marriage license/certificate?

P: Yes

M: Let’s say you didn’t have access to that document right away or you weren’t sure what to do, what would you do in that case?

P: I would go back onto this site and look at the supporting documents they allow and then contact my lawyer to see if I could get a legally-binding document that would allow us to go through this process

M: That’s super helpful, thank you! Let’s say that you’re looking at this page and you uploaded the document. Can you show me what you would do next?

P: I hit upload 

M: You should be able to scroll down

P: Okay! (the participant is experiencing challenges scrolling with the prototype) I don’t have other documents to add so I’m going to hit ‘continue’ (selects the ‘continue button’) (Reads the content) I would hit continue again (selects continue button)

Okay, so I would fill this out

M: Show me how you would do that!

P: (Filling the page out) Put any number for social security?

M: Yup - exactly that’s perfect

P: Date of birth… (inputs info and continues to the next page) Street address… (inputs information) I keep using the tab key and it’s not

M: Yeah, it won’t because of the prototype

P: His phone number…. (knows the information off the top of her head) Alternative phone number… 

M: What number would you put there?

P: We have a house phone still

M: So it’s the veteran’s phone number and then house phone?

P: Yup! Now his email address.. and his email address again.. and continue! (goes to next page) 
(Reads the content out loud) VA..

M: I know that this isn’t completely built out, would you know which VA medical center to select here?

P: Yup! He goes to (VA medical center) 

M: Perfect! You can select something for now

P: Currently he goes to the VA in Portland, but sometimes to the one in Salem. But I would put his primary as the VA medical center in Portland because I consider that his main care. So it’s a hospital and a clinic. I selected hospital because it is mainly a hospital. I think even in the name… I’m not sure if it is or not. But I know it’s a hospital. And then I’d continue!

(Reads primary caregiver out loud, selects the ‘additional info dropdown’ and reads the content out loud) So, I would say ‘yes’ because I’m the one doing this, and then hit continue. (reads information out loud) Okay, so that would be me! My middle name, which I never use… my social… my birthday… and continue

(Reads contact information out loud) Street address… same as his… alternate phone number would be the same as his alternate.. I would select ‘spouse’ and continue. 
Healthcare coverage (reading content out loud) Yes I do… and I will continue 

Second caregiver application… I would not add a second caregiver

M: Why not? 

P: My son who lives with us, he’s a young 18 so he would not be qualified to make decisions. My daughter doesn’t live with us and she very rarely helps so I don’t think they fit into that category that the VA is trying to cover here.

M: Great, thank you. What about this screen?

P: Review application… I would hit the plus sign

M: It’s not clickable - what would you expect to see?

P: His name, birth date, ssn (missed some of this because she list it very quickly - should check the recording)

Then I would scroll here to the signature page. I would put my name here.. and on behalf of my husband and I would certify that the information is accurate to the best of my belief. (Reads the next certify card out loud) Privacy policy is not clickable at this time I’m assuming

M: But you would click on that?

P: Yeah I’d scan it - I probably wouldn’t read it word-for-word because privacy policies are pretty standard. I scan things like that. Then I would type in my name again. (select checkbox) I would submit the application

M: I noticed that with the primary caregiver applicant box, you read that pretty thoroughly. Can you tell me a little bit about that?

P: Because I have found in the past reading different documents, not necessarily from VA, but you find hidden things in there. I want to make sure I’m not signing up for something I didn’t intend to sign up for or I’m lying to them in some way because that’s not me. So yeah, but like I said the privacy policies are pretty standard so I’m bad about not reading those.

M: So you mentioned entering your name again. Can you tell me about that?

P: I thought it was redundant because I did it in the statement of truth. There are some things in there I hadn’t thought of. Someone can request my discharge from the program at any time or could be revoked. I suppose if something happened between us that would be the case. I shouldn’t carrying that designation if we were to separate. I also should not continue to have that designation if I get Alzheimers or can’t do the things I do for him. So that’s a good thing to point out. 

M: You can go ahead and show me what you would do next.

P: I would submit the application (submits it) (reads the green alert box out loud, reads the blue box) I would print this page because I have found sometimes that things get lost. I would want proof I submitted it. I have a file that I keep all that stuff in.

M: Sure

Things to watch for:

In general, we want to sit back and watch them, but if they hesitate you can say “I noticed you hesitate here, what are you thinking?”

- Remind participants to think out loud. 
- Any hiccups? Do they know all the information?
- Any fields trip them up?
- Anything particularly confusing for them?
- Pay close attention to the representative and document upload sections 
  - What documents would you upload here?
  - Would you have themn on hand? 
  - If on mobile, what would you do?
- Make sure to dig in when there's any hesitation into what they are thinking
- Any confusion understanding primary and secondary caregivers?

## Post task questions - 10 minutes

Wonderful! I have a few questions about what you just saw in the prototype.

M: What did you think of the overall experience in completing this form?

P: I thought it was very straightforward and simple. I know that sometimes people have problems with computer applications, filling out paperwork via the computer, but this seemed straightforward and easy to follow. I appreciated at the bottom of each page that there’s always a phone number or website to help out with the application process even. 

M: What was the hardest part of completing the form? Were there any areas you felt were unclear?

P: Only that I live in Connecticut! So, no!

M: Yeah, I apologize for relocating you

P: I’ve never been there, so it might be kinda nice! But no, the only question I might have had would be the documentation I needed. But it made it clear that the marriage license doesn’t work because being next of kin doesn’t qualify you.

M: Knowing that, why did you select ‘Yes’ to that representative question? 

P: I assumed I would have contacted my lawyer and fixed that problem. In the past I have gone through and when it gets to the submit, they’ll let you save the application before you submit it so you can go to whatever or think about it further because I don’t want to receive benefits and find out I don’t qualify and have to repay what those benefits covered. 

M: I'm going to quickly show you my screen (moderator shares screen with “representative” question)
    * Can you tell me how you decided/knew that you were/weren’t a representative?

P: Legal representative or power of (reading the content out) 

M: Okay! So we already talked about this, what would you expect to happen if you selected ‘no’? 

P: I would expect it to kick me out and say I didn’t qualify

M: And when you say you don’t qualify..

P: You do not qualify for the caregiver position 

M: Got it! To be clear, ‘no’ you would not expect to be able to continue. (goes to the next page) Do you have any other thoughts or moments of confusion here?

P: Not on this page, no

M: Great! (continues to the secondary family caregiver page) I know again you selected ‘no’, was there anything unclear about this? 

P:  No. It appears that even if I would like my daughter to be a backup, she wouldn’t qualify because she doesn’t live with us. We might go live with her in our older age but she’s not going to come live with us.

M: Your understanding is to be a secondary caregiver you’d have to live with the veteran?

P: That was my understanding

M: Okay great! 

M: We’re working on content surrounding the primary caregiver. Could you look at this and let me know your thoughts?

P: (Reads through he content on the page) that’s good information if that’s true! (the first sentence). Well, I would want confirmation as to whether or not the secondary person has to live with you. Secondary is a backup, not a ‘help you make decisions’ or ‘help the primary’ but more of a ‘when the primary cannot do it, the secondary might step in’. 

M: So maybe something more about the secondary and who can act as the secondary? 

P: Yes

M: Now the last screen. You didn’t see this in the prototype but this is about the secondary 

P: So this would be the page about who is qualified for the secondary. I see the tab about learning more. 

M: (clicks the ‘additional info component’)

P: (reads the content out loud) Okay so she would qualify as long as…. there needs to be information about whether or not she needs to live with [the veteran]. 
    
## Wrap-up questions - 5 minutes
M: Any other thoughts about the form?

P: I think it’s pretty simple and intuitive. Like I said, some people who have difficulty filling things online and whatnot, but it’s straightforward. Basic information, the dropdown tell you what you need to know. I would have no problem with that process

M: Going back to that representative question, if I was going to tell you that you didn’t have to be a legal representative to be part of the program. Is there any information that would be helpful to put on that screen?

P: I think they would still need to be someone who lives in the house. Just because you can’t take care of somebody if you’re not there. 

M: That make sense. I’m sharing my screen again. 

P: I see it

M: Looking at this screen, let’s just say to be part of the program you do not have to be legal representative. Is there anything on this screen that helps clarify that for you? 

P: Well, if you don’t have to be a legal representative then you would need to take out the sentence ‘you would need to submit documentation about that’ or anything about ‘legal status’ - that term, ‘legal’. I still think you would need documentation to show.. I guess here’s no documentation for my best friend! I’m not sure how that would work. 

M: Thank you, that’s very helpful. Do you have any questions for me before we conclude?

P: I don’t believe so 
 
## Thank you and Closing

Well we really appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us today. Your feedback is so helpful to us as we continue to improve our products and services for Veterans and service members.
Great, thank you so much again, and enjoy the rest of your day!
