Caregiver Usability Study Notes
=============================================

**Participant 2, 2/17/2021, 12 PM EST**


Thanks for joining us today! My name is Jonathan and I also have some colleagues on the line observing and taking notes. Today we're going to review a prototype about federal benefits that are provided to caregivers of Veterans.

- This entire session should take about 45 minutes. I want to be sure not to keep you much longer, so I may occasionally prompt you with the next question or topic.
- In this session, we want to hear your honest opinions. We are not testing your ability. We just want to improve these tools to better meet Veteran's needs. I will not be offended by any opinions you express, and I welcome your feedback.
- You'll be interacting with a prototypes and a demo tool. This is a demo tool that may not function exactly the way you expect. Some areas of the prototype will be clickable, and some will not. Since it's a demo, none of your actions will affect your actual VA information or benefits.
- Please talk aloud as you're looking through things. For example, say "now I'd click on this.. what's this?" This helps me understand what's going through your head while using the tool.
- To protect your privacy, we are not going to use your real name or Social Security Number today. Feel free to make-up a name, birthday, SSN...I can always provide that information if you want
- If for any reason and at any time you want to stop the session, please let me know.

**Recording Instructions**

- **Are you comfortable if I record my screen and audio as we talk today?** We use the recordings to confirm that we have captured your opinions accurately. The recordings are destroyed after we complete analysis, and none of your comments will be attributed to you directly. 
    - If yes: **Once I start recording, I am going to confirm that you are ok with me recording this session once more.** 

*Start recording to the Cloud.*

- **I have started recording. I'd like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record my screen and audio as we talk today?"** 

I have started recording. I'd like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record my screen and audio as we talk today?"

Participant: “Yes.”

Warm-up Questions - 5 minutes

For Caregivers:

Tell me a little bit about yourself

**Participant:** “I met my husband in 2013 as he was being 
medically discharged from the Army. While we were dating, he 
was having some mental health problems from being in the 
service. I was actually a police officer at the time and thought I 
knew about PTS, however, I did not. There weren’t any resources
in the community, so I started a program myself. I became his 
caregiver before we got married. We got married in 2015 and 
have been a part of the VA’s caregiver program since.”


Do you receive any benefits from the VA? -If yes, what sort of benefits?

**Participant:** -Are you part of the Program of Comprehensive Assistance for Family 
Caregivers?


**Participant:** “My husband does. He is 100% disabled, so he gets 
disability. He is also retired from the military, so he gets 
disability retirement pay and social security. My eldest daughter 
and I both use the dependent education assistance through the 
VA. I became a part of the Program of Comprehensive Assistance
for Family Caregivers in 2014.”

When you applied for this was it on paper?”

**Participant:** “Yes.”

Does the Veteran have more than one caregiver? -If yes, can you tell 
me a bit about that situation?

**Participant:**  “My daughter would stay with him at the house when
I would travel. Now that she lives out of state, I rely on my 
husband’s mother. My mother-in-law is named as a secondary 
caregiver with the VA. My daughter is not.”


**Applying for benefits task with first representative option - 15 minutes**

Now that I understand a little bit more about your background.

For Caregivers:

Let's say you heard about a way you could receive benefits from the VA, and that you could apply online at VA.gov. You have navigated to the screen we are looking at. Now let's imagine you've decided you'd like to apply for these benefits. Go ahead and show us what you would do to apply.
Things to watch for:

In general, we want to sit back and watch them, but if they hesitate you can say “I noticed you hesitate here, what are you thinking?”
Remind participants to think out loud.
Any hiccups? Do they know all the information?
Participant did not know if she’s eligible to apply or not.
Any fields trip them up?

**Participant:** knows all of the information for her and her husband.

Any fields trip them up?

**Participant:** said she would have to call mother-in-law for her 
social security number, address, email, etc. to fill out the 
secondary caregiver information. Participant said it would be 
good to know she needed that information in the beginning.

Anything particularly confusing for them?

**Participant:** was confused when selecting the VA medical center 
or clinic because in her situation her husband is geographically 
between two VA medical centers.

**Participant:**  was confused on “Recent medical care” if it is 
wanting to know a VA medical clinic or any medical facility

**Participant:** was confused why the application was asking to add a
Primary Caregiver – she said, “I thought that is what the entire 
application is for.”

Pay close attention to the representative and document upload 
sections

What documents would you upload here?

**Participant:** used drop box to see what documents she 
needed. She said, “Some people might think if they are 
married to a veteran it automatically gives them legal 
representation.” Participant answered “No” to the legal 
representation question because she did not want to go 
through the extra steps when she could click “Continue”.

Would you have them on hand?

**Participant:** “Yes.”

If on mobile, what would you do?

Make sure to dig in when there's any hesitation into what they are 
thinking
•
Any confusion understanding primary and secondary caregivers?

No

**Participant:** “If the veteran is filling out the form, they might be 
confused why they might need a secondary caregiver.”


**Post task questions - 10 minutes**

What was the hardest part of completing the form? Were there any 
areas you felt were unclear?

**Participant:** “I think that older people filling out the form will 
have trouble uploading and adding documents.”



Wrap-up questions - 5 minutes

Any other thoughts about the form?

**Participant:** “I love that you all are putting this online and I wish 
more people knew about the program.”


Thank you and Closing
Well we really appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us today. Your feedback is so helpful to us as we continue to improve our products and services for Veterans and service members. Great, thank you so much again, and enjoy the rest of your day!

