Caregiver Usability Study Notes
=============================================

**Participant 3, 2/17/2021, 1:30 PM EST**


Thanks for joining us today! My name is Jonathan and I also have some colleagues on the line observing and taking notes. Today we're going to review a prototype about federal benefits that are provided to caregivers of Veterans.

- This entire session should take about 45 minutes. I want to be sure not to keep you much longer, so I may occasionally prompt you with the next question or topic.
- In this session, we want to hear your honest opinions. We are not testing your ability. We just want to improve these tools to better meet Veteran's needs. I will not be offended by any opinions you express, and I welcome your feedback.
- You'll be interacting with a prototypes and a demo tool. This is a demo tool that may not function exactly the way you expect. Some areas of the prototype will be clickable, and some will not. Since it's a demo, none of your actions will affect your actual VA information or benefits.
- Please talk aloud as you're looking through things. For example, say "now I'd click on this.. what's this?" This helps me understand what's going through your head while using the tool.
- To protect your privacy, we are not going to use your real name or Social Security Number today. Feel free to make-up a name, birthday, SSN...I can always provide that information if you want
- If for any reason and at any time you want to stop the session, please let me know.

**Recording Instructions**

- **Are you comfortable if I record my screen and audio as we talk today?** We use the recordings to confirm that we have captured your opinions accurately. The recordings are destroyed after we complete analysis, and none of your comments will be attributed to you directly. 
    - If yes: **Once I start recording, I am going to confirm that you are ok with me recording this session once more.** 

*Start recording to the Cloud.*

- **I have started recording. I'd like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record my screen and audio as we talk today?"** 

I have started recording. I'd like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record my screen and audio as we talk today?"

**Participant:** “Yes.”

For Caregivers:

Tell me a little bit about yourself

**Participant:** “I am a caregiver for my husband and stay at home. I
have a college education. I also have 3 dogs that I take care of.”

Tell me a bit about the relationship you have with the Veteran?

**Participant:** “My husband was losing feeling in his hands. He 
needs help doing things around the house and get ready for the 
day.”

Is the Veteran you are providing caregiving, a family member or 
friend?

Do you receive any benefits from the VA? -If yes, what sort of benefits?
-Are you part of the Program of Comprehensive Assistance for Family 
Caregivers?

**Participant:** “We just started working with a social worker for the 
next step to get benefits. We were interviewed by a social worker
for the Caregivers program. I applied by myself online about a 
month ago.”

Does the Veteran have more than one caregiver? -If yes, can you tell 
me a bit about that situation?

**Participant:** “My son helps a little bit but it’s mainly me, as the 
caregiver.”

**Applying for benefits task with first representative option - 15 minutes**

Now that I understand a little bit more about your background.

For Caregivers:
Let's say you heard about a way you could receive benefits from the VA, and 
that you could apply online at VA.gov. You have navigated to the screen we 
are looking at. Now let's imagine you've decided you'd like to apply for these
benefits. Go ahead and show us what you would do to apply.

Things to watch for:
- In general, we want to sit back and watch them, but if they hesitate you can 
say “I noticed you hesitate here, what are you thinking?”

- Remind participants to think out loud.

- Any hiccups? Do they know all the information?
- 
- Participant knew her and her husband’s information.

- Any fields trip them up?

**Participant** filled in the information about the Primary Family 
Caregiver as her husband’s primary physician – she later realized
that she misread the information.

Anything particularly confusing for them?

**Participant** was confused on who should be filling out the 
application

Pay close attention to the representative and document upload 
sections

What documents would you upload here?

**Participant** “Power of attorney documentation and medical
documentation.”

Would you have them on hand?

**Participant** “Yes.”

If on mobile, what would you do?

**Participant** “I would scan the documents to my phone. 

Facilitator: “Do you know where those documents are?”

**Participant** “The documents are at my house.”


**Post task questions - 10 minutes** 

Wonderful! I have a few questions about what you just saw in the prototype.

What did you think of the overall experience in completing this form?

**Participant** “I think this is great, but some older generations 
might have a difficult time filling out this form online.”

Facilitator: “Would your husband fill out this form on his own.”

**Participant** “No. He can only fill out forms with me.”

What was the hardest part of completing the form? Were there any 
areas you felt were unclear?

**Participant** was confused if there is a link to go to for question or 
only the “Need Help?” hotline – Participant said she would prefer 
a link for FAQs.

**Participant** suggested a “Save Later” button to save the 
application to complete at another time.

What worked well?

I'm going to quickly show you my screen (moderator shares screen 
with “representative” question)
o
Can you tell me how you decided/knew that you were/weren’t a 
representative?

**Participant** “I said yes because I am his legal 
representative and I have paperwork.”


**Participant** “If I wasn’t at home, I would have to close out 
and wait to fill out the form until I was home.”

**Thank you and Closing**

Well we really appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us 
today. Your feedback is so helpful to us as we continue to improve our 
products and services for Veterans and service members. Great, thank you 
so much again, and enjoy the rest of your day!

