Caregiver Usability Study Notes
=============================================

**Participant 4, 2/17/2021, 9 AM EST**


Thanks for joining us today! My name is Jonathan and I also have some colleagues on the line observing and taking notes. Today we're going to review a prototype about federal benefits that are provided to caregivers of Veterans.

- This entire session should take about 45 minutes. I want to be sure not to keep you much longer, so I may occasionally prompt you with the next question or topic.
- In this session, we want to hear your honest opinions. We are not testing your ability. We just want to improve these tools to better meet Veteran's needs. I will not be offended by any opinions you express, and I welcome your feedback.
- You'll be interacting with a prototypes and a demo tool. This is a demo tool that may not function exactly the way you expect. Some areas of the prototype will be clickable, and some will not. Since it's a demo, none of your actions will affect your actual VA information or benefits.
- Please talk aloud as you're looking through things. For example, say "now I'd click on this.. what's this?" This helps me understand what's going through your head while using the tool.
- To protect your privacy, we are not going to use your real name or Social Security Number today. Feel free to make-up a name, birthday, SSN...I can always provide that information if you want
- If for any reason and at any time you want to stop the session, please let me know.

**Recording Instructions**

- **Are you comfortable if I record my screen and audio as we talk today?** We use the recordings to confirm that we have captured your opinions accurately. The recordings are destroyed after we complete analysis, and none of your comments will be attributed to you directly. 
    - If yes: **Once I start recording, I am going to confirm that you are ok with me recording this session once more.** 

*Start recording to the Cloud.*

- **I have started recording. I'd like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record my screen and audio as we talk today?"** 

I have started recording. I'd like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record my screen and audio as we talk today?"

**Participant:** “Yes.”

Tell me a little about yourself

**Participant:** “I am a veteran, and my wife is my caregiver.”

Do you currently have a caregiver? If so, tell me a bit about the 
relationship you have with your caregiver?

Are they a family member or friend?

Do they live with you?
•
Does your caregiver receive any benefits from the VA? -If yes, what 
sort of benefits? 

**Participant:** “I receive benefits from the VA, like medical and 
disability.”

Are you/they part of the Program of Comprehensive Assistance for 
Family Caregivers? 

Do you have more than one caregivers? -If yes, tell me a bit about that
relationship? -Are they a family member or friend?

**Participant:** “Sometimes my daughter helps.”

*Participant lost connection and was unable to finish the session*
•

