Caregiver Usability Study Notes
=============================================

**Participant 5, 2/18/2021, 12 PM EST**


Thanks for joining us today! My name is Jonathan and I also have some colleagues on the line observing and taking notes. Today we're going to review a prototype about federal benefits that are provided to caregivers of Veterans.

- This entire session should take about 45 minutes. I want to be sure not to keep you much longer, so I may occasionally prompt you with the next question or topic.
- In this session, we want to hear your honest opinions. We are not testing your ability. We just want to improve these tools to better meet Veteran's needs. I will not be offended by any opinions you express, and I welcome your feedback.
- You'll be interacting with a prototypes and a demo tool. This is a demo tool that may not function exactly the way you expect. Some areas of the prototype will be clickable, and some will not. Since it's a demo, none of your actions will affect your actual VA information or benefits.
- Please talk aloud as you're looking through things. For example, say "now I'd click on this.. what's this?" This helps me understand what's going through your head while using the tool.
- To protect your privacy, we are not going to use your real name or Social Security Number today. Feel free to make-up a name, birthday, SSN...I can always provide that information if you want
- If for any reason and at any time you want to stop the session, please let me know.

**Recording Instructions**

- **Are you comfortable if I record my screen and audio as we talk today?** We use the recordings to confirm that we have captured your opinions accurately. The recordings are destroyed after we complete analysis, and none of your comments will be attributed to you directly. 
    - If yes: **Once I start recording, I am going to confirm that you are ok with me recording this session once more.** 

*Start recording to the Cloud.*

- **I have started recording. I'd like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record my screen and audio as we talk today?"** 

I have started recording. I'd like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record my screen and audio as we talk today?"

Participant: “Yes.”

Warm-up Questions - 5 minutes

For Veterans:

Tell me a little about yourself

**Participant** “I am a veteran and I served in the 70s. I am married
to veteran and he is my caregiver.”

Do you currently have a caregiver? If so, tell me a bit about the 
relationship you have with your caregiver?

**Participant** “I have a caregiver through an agency that the VA 
contracts. She helps me get ready in the morning, make up my 
bed, etc. My husband also helps as a caregiver, but he is not a 
caregiver through the VA.” 

Are they a family member or friend?

Do they live with you?

If no, how often do they come over to check in on you?

Does your caregiver receive any benefits from the VA? -If yes, what 
sort of benefits? 

**Participant** “I receive benefits from the VA and use their medical
clinic.” 

Are you/they part of the Program of Comprehensive Assistance for 
Family Caregivers? 

Do you have more than one caregivers? -If yes, tell me a bit about that
relationship? -Are they a family member or friend?

Do they live with you?
For Caregivers:

Tell me a little bit about yourself

Tell me a bit about the relationship you have with the Veteran?

Is the Veteran you are providing caregiving, a family member or 
friend?

Do you receive any benefits from the VA? -If yes, what sort of benefits?
-Are you part of the Program of Comprehensive Assistance for Family 
Caregivers?

Does the Veteran have more than one caregiver? -If yes, can you tell 
me a bit about that situation?

Are they a family member or friend?

Do they live with the Veteran?

**Applying for benefits task with first representative option - 15 minutes**

Now that I understand a little bit more about your background.

For Veterans:
Let's say you heard about a way you and your caregiver could receive 
benefits from the VA, and that you could apply online at VA.gov. You have 
navigated to the screen we are looking at. Now let's imagine you've decided 
you'd like to apply for these benefits. Go ahead and show us what you would 
do to apply.


In general, we want to sit back and watch them, but if they hesitate you can 
say “I noticed you hesitate here, what are you thinking?”

Remind participants to think out loud.

Any hiccups? Do they know all the information?

Knows all of her and her husband’s information.

Any fields trip them up?

**Participant** did not notice where to click the “Start your 
application” button.

**Participant** On the question about adding a Primary family caregiver, the 
participant chose “No” because she did not want to learn more 
about it. She then noticed the question above to add a Primary 
family caregiver and changed her answer to “Yes.” The 
participant suggested that the two sentences should be 
separated because she was confused.

Anything particularly confusing for them?

**Participant** In the beginning, the participant wanted to click the “Sign in” 
button and the “Menu” button at the top instead of “Start your 
application.”

**Participant** was confused on the Caregiver’s statement of truth 
page. The participant did not feel comfortable signing without 
her caregiver present. She said she would have to leave the 
statement of truth blank because her caregiver wasn’t sitting 
next to her. 

Facilitator: “What would you do in this situation?”

**Participant** “I would call the hotline for help and see if I 
could bypass the question.”

**Participant** suggested adding a statement before the 
application to let veterans know that their caregiver needs 
to be present. She said she would be frustrated if she got 
to the end of the application and couldn’t submit.

Pay close attention to the representative and document upload 
sections

What documents would you upload here?

Would you have them on hand?

If on mobile, what would you do?

Make sure to dig in when there's any hesitation into what they are 
thinking
•
Any confusion understanding primary and secondary caregivers?
o
Participant stated she was not confused by the questions.

**Participant** chose her husband as her Primary family caregiver 
because he helps her the most.

**Post task questions - 10 minutes**

Wonderful! I have a few questions about what you just saw in the prototype.

What did you think of the overall experience in completing this form?

Participant: “Easy. I just didn’t like statement of truth question 
and I wish they mentioned that caregiver needed to be there in 
the beginning.”

What was the hardest part of completing the form? Were there any 
areas you felt were unclear?

**Participant** stated that she would be filling out the application by 
herself and probably wouldn’t have her caregiver present. 
Because of this, she could not submit the application until she is 
with her caregiver.

What worked well?

**Participant** thought that the “Need Help?” hotline would be 
ueful.
•
I'm going to quickly show you my screen (moderator shares screen 
with “representative” question)
o
Can you tell me how you decided/knew that you were/weren’t a 
representative?

**Participant** “I selected “No” because I do not have a legal 
representative.”

If they were confused when completing this section.
What could 
we do to improve the information around representatives?

Can you elaborate on your reasoning for your selection?

If not addressed in tasks

What documents would you upload here?

Would you have them on hand?

If on mobile, what would you do?
Wrap-up questions - 5 minutes

Any other thoughts about the form?

**Participant** “I thought it was straight forward except the 
statement of truth question.”


Well we really appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us 
today. Your feedback is so helpful to us as we continue to improve our 
products and services for Veterans and service members. Great, thank you 
so much again, and enjoy the rest of your day!

