Caregiver Usability Study Notes
=============================================

**Participant 6, 2/18/2021, 12:30 PM EST**


Thanks for joining us today! My name is Jonathan and I also have some colleagues on the line observing and taking notes. Today we're going to review a prototype about federal benefits that are provided to caregivers of Veterans.

- This entire session should take about 45 minutes. I want to be sure not to keep you much longer, so I may occasionally prompt you with the next question or topic.
- In this session, we want to hear your honest opinions. We are not testing your ability. We just want to improve these tools to better meet Veteran's needs. I will not be offended by any opinions you express, and I welcome your feedback.
- You'll be interacting with a prototypes and a demo tool. This is a demo tool that may not function exactly the way you expect. Some areas of the prototype will be clickable, and some will not. Since it's a demo, none of your actions will affect your actual VA information or benefits.
- Please talk aloud as you're looking through things. For example, say "now I'd click on this.. what's this?" This helps me understand what's going through your head while using the tool.
- To protect your privacy, we are not going to use your real name or Social Security Number today. Feel free to make-up a name, birthday, SSN...I can always provide that information if you want
- If for any reason and at any time you want to stop the session, please let me know.

**Recording Instructions**

- **Are you comfortable if I record my screen and audio as we talk today?** We use the recordings to confirm that we have captured your opinions accurately. The recordings are destroyed after we complete analysis, and none of your comments will be attributed to you directly. 
    - If yes: **Once I start recording, I am going to confirm that you are ok with me recording this session once more.** 

*Start recording to the Cloud.*

- **I have started recording. I'd like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record my screen and audio as we talk today?"** 

I have started recording. I'd like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record my screen and audio as we talk today?"

**Participant:** “Yes.”

For Caregivers:

Tell me a little bit about yourself

**Participant:** “I am a veteran myself and I am a caregiver from my
neighbor who is a WWII veteran. I do not take care of him every 
day, but I help while his wife needs a break or needs to go out. I 
am not a caregiver for the VA.”

Tell me a bit about the relationship you have with the Veteran?

Is the Veteran you are providing caregiving, a family member or 
friend?

Do you receive any benefits from the VA? -If yes, what sort of benefits?
-Are you part of the Program of Comprehensive Assistance for Family 
Caregivers?

**Participant:**: “I do not receive benefits and I am not sure if my 
veteran does.”

Does the Veteran have more than one caregiver? -If yes, can you tell 
me a bit about that situation?

Are they a family member or friend?
o
Do they live with the Veteran?

**Participant:** “His wife is his main caregiver and I just help 
when needed.”

**Applying for benefits task with first representative option - 15 minutes**

Now that I understand a little bit more about your background.
For Veterans:
Let's say you heard about a way you and your caregiver could receive 
benefits from the VA, and that you could apply online at VA.gov. You have 
navigated to the screen we are looking at. Now let's imagine you've decided 
you'd like to apply for these benefits. Go ahead and show us what you would 
do to apply.
For Caregivers:
Let's say you heard about a way you could receive benefits from the VA, and 
that you could apply online at VA.gov. You have navigated to the screen we 
are looking at. Now let's imagine you've decided you'd like to apply for these
benefits. Go ahead and show us what you would do to apply.
Things to watch for:
In general, we want to sit back and watch them, but if they hesitate you can 
say “I noticed you hesitate here, what are you thinking?”

Remind participants to think out loud.

Any hiccups? Do they know all the information?

**Participant:** did not know all of the information for the veteran’s 
daughter who she decided was the Primary family caregiver. The
participant did know all of the information for the veteran.

Any fields trip them up?

Anything particularly confusing for them?

**Participant:** was confused between a caregiver and someone who 
would help in an emergency or decision-making situation.

Pay close attention to the representative and document upload 
sections

What documents would you upload here?

**Participant:** would not upload any documents here. The wife
is the power of attorney for the veteran; therefore, she 
would be his legal representation and upload documents. 

**Participant:** stated she would only fill out the application 
with the wife present.

Would you have them on hand?

If on mobile, what would you do?

Make sure to dig in when there's any hesitation into what they are 
thinking

Any confusion understanding primary and secondary caregivers?

**Participant:** stated that the veteran’s wife is the primary caregiver
but filled out form with the daughter of the veteran’s 
information.

**Participant:** reason for choosing the daughter as the primary 
family caregiver was because the daughter lives out of state but 
could get to the veteran fast if needed.

When asked why she did not choose the veteran’s wife as the 
primary family caregiver, the participant stated, “Because she is 
always there anyways. She would already know the information.”

Facilitator: *Showed the participant a different option of the 
same question*

**Participant:** then chose the veteran’s wife as the primary 
family caregiver when given more context.
Post task questions - 10 minutes
Wonderful! I have a few questions about what you just saw in the prototype.

What did you think of the overall experience in completing this form?

**Participant:** “It was an easy and straightforward form.”

What was the hardest part of completing the form? Were there any 
areas you felt were unclear?

**Participant:** “No.”

What worked well?

I'm going to quickly show you my screen (moderator shares screen 
with “representative” question)

Can you tell me how you decided/knew that you were/weren’t a 
representative?

**Participant:** stated that she does not have authorization so 
she selected “No” but if the veteran’s wife filled out the 
application, the wife would select “Yes.”

If they were confused when completing this section.
What could 
we do to improve the information around representatives?

Can you elaborate on your reasoning for your selection?
•
If not addressed in tasks

What documents would you upload here?

Would you have them on hand?

If on mobile, what would you do?
Wrap-up questions - 5 minutes

Any other thoughts about the form?

Do you have any questions for me before we conclude?
Thank you and Closing
Well we really appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us 
today. Your feedback is so helpful to us as we continue to improve our 
products and services for Veterans and service members. Great, thank you 
so much again, and enjoy the rest of your day!

