Caregiver Usability Study Notes
=============================================

**Participant 7, 2/18/2021, 2 PM EST**


Thanks for joining us today! My name is Jonathan and I also have some colleagues on the line observing and taking notes. Today we're going to review a prototype about federal benefits that are provided to caregivers of Veterans.

- This entire session should take about 45 minutes. I want to be sure not to keep you much longer, so I may occasionally prompt you with the next question or topic.
- In this session, we want to hear your honest opinions. We are not testing your ability. We just want to improve these tools to better meet Veteran's needs. I will not be offended by any opinions you express, and I welcome your feedback.
- You'll be interacting with a prototypes and a demo tool. This is a demo tool that may not function exactly the way you expect. Some areas of the prototype will be clickable, and some will not. Since it's a demo, none of your actions will affect your actual VA information or benefits.
- Please talk aloud as you're looking through things. For example, say "now I'd click on this.. what's this?" This helps me understand what's going through your head while using the tool.
- To protect your privacy, we are not going to use your real name or Social Security Number today. Feel free to make-up a name, birthday, SSN...I can always provide that information if you want
- If for any reason and at any time you want to stop the session, please let me know.

**Recording Instructions**

- **Are you comfortable if I record my screen and audio as we talk today?** We use the recordings to confirm that we have captured your opinions accurately. The recordings are destroyed after we complete analysis, and none of your comments will be attributed to you directly. 
    - If yes: **Once I start recording, I am going to confirm that you are ok with me recording this session once more.** 

*Start recording to the Cloud.*

- **I have started recording. I'd like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record my screen and audio as we talk today?"** 

I have started recording. I'd like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record my screen and audio as we talk today?"

Participant: “Yes.”

For Veterans:
•
Tell me a little about yourself
•
Do you currently have a caregiver? If so, tell me a bit about the 
relationship you have with your caregiver?
•
Are they a family member or friend?
•
Do they live with you?
•
Does your caregiver receive any benefits from the VA? -If yes, what 
sort of benefits? 
•
Are you/they part of the Program of Comprehensive Assistance for 
Family Caregivers? 
•
Do you have more than one caregivers? -If yes, tell me a bit about that
relationship? -Are they a family member or friend?
•
Do they live with you?
For Caregivers:
•
Tell me a little bit about yourself
o
Participant: “I have been married for 21 years. I’m a wife of a 
veteran who served for 17 years. I am 45 years old with two kids 
and I work full-time.”
•
Tell me a bit about the relationship you have with the Veteran?
•
Is the Veteran you are providing caregiving, a family member or 
friend?
o
Participant: “Yes, to my husband.”
•
Do you receive any benefits from the VA? -If yes, what sort of benefits?
-Are you part of the Program of Comprehensive Assistance for Family 
Caregivers?
o
Participant: “I do not, but my husband does. We applied for the 
Caregivers program, but we were denied. The VA said that they 
denied us because I was ‘only helping with wifely duties’ and I 
never appealed.”
o
Facilitator: “Did you apply on paper?”
o
Participant: “Yes.”
•
Does the Veteran have more than one caregiver? -If yes, can you tell 
me a bit about that situation?
o
Participant: “I have a 16- and 10-year-old that sometimes help 
out if I need. I can’t drive in the dark so if my husband needs to 
be somewhere, my 16-year-old will need to drive.”
o
Are they a family member or friend?
o
Do they live with the Veteran?
Applying for benefits task with first 
representative option - 15 minutes
Now that I understand a little bit more about your background.
For Veterans:
Let's say you heard about a way you and your caregiver could receive 
benefits from the VA, and that you could apply online at VA.gov. You have 
navigated to the screen we are looking at. Now let's imagine you've decided 
you'd like to apply for these benefits. Go ahead and show us what you would 
do to apply.
For Caregivers:
Let's say you heard about a way you could receive benefits from the VA, and 
that you could apply online at VA.gov. You have navigated to the screen we 
are looking at. Now let's imagine you've decided you'd like to apply for these
benefits. Go ahead and show us what you would do to apply.
Things to watch for:
In general, we want to sit back and watch them, but if they hesitate you can 
say “I noticed you hesitate here, what are you thinking?”
•
Remind participants to think out loud.
o
Participant stated before starting the application, that she would 
print out the information page to know what she needs before 
starting application. That way, she can be prepared. 

Any hiccups? Do they know all the information?

**Participant** needed to ask her husband for his email information. 
Participant knew all of the other information for herself and her 
husband.

**Participant** said that she put their hospital for VA medical center 
question instead of a clinic because she did not know name of 
the clinic.

Any fields trip them up?

Anything particularly confusing for them?

**The participant** clicked on “Learn more about a primary family 
caregiver“ because she didn’t know what the question is asking.

**Participant** was not sure if she needs to sign into her husband’s 
VA account before starting the application. 

Pay close attention to the representative and document upload 
sections

**Participant** thought if she entered “No” for the legal 
representation question that she would be denied and wouldn’t 
be able to continue the application.

**Participant** selected “Yes” because she has power of 
attorney.

What documents would you upload here?

**Participant:**  “Power of attorney documentation.”

Would you have them on hand?

**Participant:** “I don’t know where the documents are so I’m 
not sure if I could upload them.”

If on mobile, what would you do?

**Participant:** “I would take a picture of the documents on 
my phone. If I was at my office, I could scan them.”

Make sure to dig in when there's any hesitation into what they are 
thinking

Any confusion understanding primary and secondary caregivers?

**Participant** was confused about the word “add” on the Primary 
family caregiver question. She chose her son and not herself 
because she thought the question was asking for an additional 
caregiver besides herself.

**Participant** went back to the same question after moving 
forward and started to second guess her answer. She 
stated that she was confused.

The participant changed her answer to herself and put her 
son as the secondary caregiver instead.

**The participant** answered her son as the secondary caregiver and
later saw in the statement of truth at the end that he needed to 
be 18. She became frustrated and said she did not know that 
information on the secondary caregiver question and would have
to go back to change her answer.

**Participant** suggested changing the word “add” for the primary 
and secondary caregiver questions because its confusing. 
Participant said, “If the caregiver is filling out the form, they 
shouldn’t need to add themselves.”
Post task questions - 10 minutes
Wonderful! I have a few questions about what you just saw in the prototype.

What did you think of the overall experience in completing this form?

What was the hardest part of completing the form? Were there any 
areas you felt were unclear?

**Participant:** “The secondary qualifications need to be stated on 
the question and not at the end of the application.”

**Participant** was still unclear at the end of the session as to what 
the question about the primary caregiver was asking.

What worked well?
•
I'm going to quickly show you my screen (moderator shares screen 
with “representative” question)

Can you tell me how you decided/knew that you were/weren’t a 
representative?

**Participant:**  “I already interact with the VA on behalf of my 
husband anyways. I also have power of attorney.”

**Participant** thinks if you press “no” you aren’t eligible for 
the program. 

If they were confused when completing this section.
What could 

**Participant:** “It was fairly simple. I just didn’t understand what 
was being asked in some questions.”

Do you have any questions for me before we conclude?

**Thank you and Closing** 

Well we really appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us 
today. Your feedback is so helpful to us as we continue to improve our 
products and services for Veterans and service members. Great, thank you 
so much again, and enjoy the rest of your day!
