Caregiver Usability Study Notes
=============================================

**Participant 8, 2/19/2021, 2 PM EST**


Thanks for joining us today! My name is Jonathan and I also have some colleagues on the line observing and taking notes. Today we're going to review a prototype about federal benefits that are provided to caregivers of Veterans.

- This entire session should take about 45 minutes. I want to be sure not to keep you much longer, so I may occasionally prompt you with the next question or topic.
- In this session, we want to hear your honest opinions. We are not testing your ability. We just want to improve these tools to better meet Veteran's needs. I will not be offended by any opinions you express, and I welcome your feedback.
- You'll be interacting with a prototypes and a demo tool. This is a demo tool that may not function exactly the way you expect. Some areas of the prototype will be clickable, and some will not. Since it's a demo, none of your actions will affect your actual VA information or benefits.
- Please talk aloud as you're looking through things. For example, say "now I'd click on this.. what's this?" This helps me understand what's going through your head while using the tool.
- To protect your privacy, we are not going to use your real name or Social Security Number today. Feel free to make-up a name, birthday, SSN...I can always provide that information if you want
- If for any reason and at any time you want to stop the session, please let me know.

**Recording Instructions**

- **Are you comfortable if I record my screen and audio as we talk today?** We use the recordings to confirm that we have captured your opinions accurately. The recordings are destroyed after we complete analysis, and none of your comments will be attributed to you directly. 
    - If yes: **Once I start recording, I am going to confirm that you are ok with me recording this session once more.** 

*Start recording to the Cloud.*

- **I have started recording. I'd like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record my screen and audio as we talk today?"** 

I have started recording. I'd like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record my screen and audio as we talk today?"

Participant: “Yes.”

Warm-up Questions - 5 minutes
For Veterans:

Tell me a little about yourself

**Participant:** “I am a veteran, and I was in the military with the 
Army national guard during the Berlin crisis.”

Do you currently have a caregiver? If so, tell me a bit about the 
relationship you have with your caregiver?

**Participant:** “My wife is my caregiver. She does not receive 
benefits from the VA. My wife is just there for assistance.” 

Are they a family member or friend?

Do they live with you?

Does your caregiver receive any benefits from the VA? -If yes, what 
sort of benefits? 

**Participant:** “Yes, I am 100% disabled.”

Are you/they part of the Program of Comprehensive Assistance for 
Family Caregivers? 

Do you have more than one caregivers? -If yes, tell me a bit about that
relationship? -Are they a family member or friend?

**Participant:** “No one else.”


Applying for benefits task with first 
representative option - 15 minutes

Now that I understand a little bit more about your background.
For Veterans:

Let's say you heard about a way you and your caregiver could receive 
benefits from the VA, and that you could apply online at VA.gov. You have 
navigated to the screen we are looking at. Now let's imagine you've decided 
you'd like to apply for these benefits. Go ahead and show us what you would 
do to apply.

o**Participant:** stated that he would download the form first before 
filling out the online application. When asked how to start the 
form online, he said to press the download button.

At the end of the application, participant assumes that he will be 
able to add information for the Review sections.
•
Any hiccups? Do they know all the information?

**Participant:** knows all of his information. He said he would have to
ask his wife for her social security number. 

**Participant:** stated that his wife would probably be with him if he 
was filling out this form.

Any fields trip them up?
•
Anything particularly confusing for them?

**Participant:** was confused whether to put hospital or clinic for
one of the questions.

**Participant:** understood what a primary caregiver is. However, he 
was confused what *Required means on the question. He thinks 
it means it is required to put someone down instead of required 
to answer the question.

**Participant:** was thinking he would have to specify which 
insurance he has. He was confused when it did not ask him for 
that information.

Pay close attention to the representative and document upload 
sections

**Participant:** selected “No.”

Make sure to dig in when there's any hesitation into what they are 
thinking

Any confusion understanding primary and secondary caregivers?

**Participant:** When asked what a secondary is, the participant said a 
secondary caregiver would do the same as primary but just 
another caregiver.

Post task questions - 10 minutes
Wonderful! I have a few questions about what you just saw in the prototype.


**Participant:** answered “No” because he does not have any 
documentation.

If they were confused when completing this section.
What could 
we do to improve the information around representatives?

Can you elaborate on your reasoning for your selection?

If not addressed in tasks

What documents would you upload here?

Would you have them on hand?

If on mobile, what would you do?

Wrap-up questions - 5 minutes

Any other thoughts about the form?

**Participant:** “Nothing difficult, everything was clear.”


Do you have any questions for me before we conclude?

Thank you and Closing

Well we really appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us 
today. Your feedback is so helpful to us as we continue to improve our 
products and services for Veterans and service members. Great, thank you 
so much again, and enjoy the rest of your day!
