Caregiver Usability Study Notes
=============================================

Participant 9, 2/23/2021, 5 PM EST  


Thanks for joining us today! My name is Jonathan and I also have some colleagues on the line observing and taking notes. Today we're going to review a prototype about federal benefits that are provided to caregivers of Veterans.

- This entire session should take about 45 minutes. I want to be sure not to keep you much longer, so I may occasionally prompt you with the next question or topic.
- In this session, we want to hear your honest opinions. We are not testing your ability. We just want to improve these tools to better meet Veteran's needs. I will not be offended by any opinions you express, and I welcome your feedback.
- You'll be interacting with a prototypes and a demo tool. This is a demo tool that may not function exactly the way you expect. Some areas of the prototype will be clickable, and some will not. Since it's a demo, none of your actions will affect your actual VA information or benefits.
- Please talk aloud as you're looking through things. For example, say "now I'd click on this.. what's this?" This helps me understand what's going through your head while using the tool.
- To protect your privacy, we are not going to use your real name or Social Security Number today. Feel free to make-up a name, birthday, SSN...I can always provide that information if you want
- If for any reason and at any time you want to stop the session, please let me know.

**Recording Instructions**

- **Are you comfortable if I record my screen and audio as we talk today?** We use the recordings to confirm that we have captured your opinions accurately. The recordings are destroyed after we complete analysis, and none of your comments will be attributed to you directly. 
    - If yes: **Once I start recording, I am going to confirm that you are ok with me recording this session once more.** 

*Start recording to the Cloud.*

- **I have started recording. I'd like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record my screen and audio as we talk today?"** 

M: Tell me a little bit about yourself

P: I’m a caregiver to my husband. It’s been 12 years of caregiving. He went to Afghanistan and it wasn’t very good. Don’t recommend it and he had done Iraq in 04/05 and in 2009, on our 15 wedding anniversary he got blown up - catastrophically - it’s a miracle he is alive - like really, every single injury could have killed him - the man is too stubborn to die. And I am so happy because I am too old to train a new recruit. He is an amazing human being. So, like today I had to drive him to all his doctor’s appointments because his TBI and insomnia just exhaust him. He hears a running motor and he is out cold. But I get to listen to whatever I want on the radio. 


M: Do you receive any benefits from the VA?

P: Yes, I am on the caregiver program. 

M: How long? 

P: Back in 2012 is when we started dealing with the VA and it wasn’t until 5 or 5 months in that I heard about the VA caregiving program and I got on it. It was a blessing to go from working at Dell to like zero. I miss having a 401k. It’s horrible. This has been an incredible blessing 

M: Anyone else helping with care?

P: No. It is me, myself, and I.  


## Applying for benefits task with first representative option - 15 minutes

Now that I understand a little bit more about your background. 

**For Caregivers:**

P: This is a lot nicer. Big buttons, then it was back in the day. 

M: Let's say you heard about a way you could receive benefits from the VA, and that you could apply online at VA.gov. You have navigated to the screen we are looking at. Now let's imagine you've decided you'd like to apply for these benefits. Go ahead and show us what you would do to apply. 


P: Click right here, Start my application. I mean, it’s really straightforward. I like the big bold. I like the contrast of the blue button. I like the amount of white space. Sorry, I am going to geek out from a design perspective. And not that it’s comprehensive from Vietnam era. Vietnam era people are not tech-friendly. In fact, I walked through a caregiver...I do a lot of advocacy and volunteerism and I just walked a caregiver through this the other day that is like 70 years old. So, this makes visual sense.  

Like I said, it’s easy. Compared to caregiver.va.gov used to look like...and compared to other pages I have seen across the site...from a visual design perspective, i don’t see the need for any kind of change. 

M: Let’s say in your situation you wanted to go ahead and submit this application again. You can walk me through it. And again, if you cont. Talking aloud, just like you are doing, that would be great. 

P: I would click start your application and I would fill in the Veteran information. Do you want me to pretend to fill it in? 

M: yeah, you can fill it in. and if you can tell me who’s information you are entering...it would be super helpful. 

P: I am just pretending, it’s Joey bag of donuts, I am going to pretend it’s my Veteran, my spouse 

The caregiving community is actually very small. I geek out on patterns and trends. Because that’s how I make money because I pay attention to - I just notice these things. 

Street address, you want me to keep pretending to fill it in? 

M: Yes. And who’s number would you be entering?

P: The Veterans. It says the Veterans. I see nothing that has to deal with me at all. It’s all about the Veteran. which if you have someone that is not able to do the scheduling and planning. Like my husband, I do all the scheduling and planning. Because of his brain injury, he’ll forget something. It’s not that he is not intellectually aware, I mean he is brilliant, he just doesn’t have short-term memory. I would say 95% of Veterans you deal with don’t have short term memory. PTSD is a horrible thing. 

So I would use my email/phone number because  I am doing all my stuff. In the case of caring for someone with a brain injury/ALS. They can’t speak - they lose their muscles and they can’t talk. This all looks super straight forward. 

P: Still makes sense - Someone new to caregiving in the va health system might not know all of the official system names - it might be cool to put the name of facility and the city -  I drive nine hours I’m still in the state of Texas - Include the name of the city next to the medical center name. 

I would easily Google. I don’t even challenge myself anymore. An older person, I think having the city name would be useful

M: And would you know what to enter here? 

P: I’m the one that takes him to all his appointments. Different from the VA Medical Center. Civilian medical benefits - doesn’t need to go to a VA MC. I can take him 5 mins from, I have to say we have had some wonderful teams within the VA. Some of these guys are going from active duty straight to civilian 


P: Three lines for first, middle, last is a lot (can’t tab) You guys prob need it for Salesforce!...

M; On the site, you can tab. 

P: Otherwise it would be pretty quick 

M; Can you tell me about that decision to select PFC? 

P: I’m the only caregiver. Most of us because of jerky families or being geographically isolated, have no one else. Or some veterans isolate themselves from their families…

P: Primary, where is Secondary??

M: Where would you expect information on Secondary ? 

P: Learn more about PFC...I think what would be good to say here is, Do you have more than one Caregiver to this Veteran...that way they can just enter it all in with one pop. To give you  an idea, up  until a year ago, i was caregiving to my elderly aunt, that has a lot of complex health issues, and a mother, and someone who likes to run a side hustle...We don’t have time, After a long day of doctor appointments and dealing with everything else, you are a zombie, You can be a MENSA grad (recipient) and after a day of sitting in a waiting room you are reduced to mush...It might be easier to have everything at once…Less is more. 

P: Standard address. Sometimes caregivers don’t live with the Veteran. Families have issues. Caregiver street address is pretty straightforward - what would be cool if you click “same as Veteran” 

P: most of us only have a cell phone - make it so it doesn’t get stuck if you do not put in an alternative number

Let’s look at these choices - you have friend there - you got the whole spectrum

That’s pretty easy too…

Ah! Now here’s the secondary person! I think the secondary person should have been two screens ago. 

This looks the same as the other thing. Pretty straightforward (navigates back and selects no) 

P: Not everyone has the legal POA but I do...Let’s see what this says. I like that it spells this out simply and in bold letters (learn more). 

M: If you clicked upload what would you expect to happen? 

P: that it would download from my computer. To pick a file from. 

M: and would you have documentation? 

P: You learn to have it, your POA form, so in 12 years I have submitted, I think in the first 6 years I have sent one every month…

M: Would you upload more than one document? 

P: POA forms are a one pager, that’s all I would put down. This is very easy and straightforward. Someone that’s older would have family and friends say, hey what does this mean?

P: Representative’s statement of truth...This is very easy and straightforward...This is like if you the caregiver is not the representative. 

M: And was that confusing, entering your name twice? 

P: no, I just scanned down...I like that you can print the page. This looked really good - I liked the different colors, the font was easy to read



I like that you can print the page. This looked really good - I liked the different colors, the font was easy to read


## Post task questions - 10 minutes

M: What did you think of the overall experience in completing this form?

P: It was a lot simpler than it was 12 years ago
 
M: Was there anything that made it simple that stands out? 
P: Visually straightforward. I like that it has the form number. I like how it says equal to form 10-10CG. It’s helpful to see the form numbers

M: Did you think you had to upload documentation to submit the form? 


P: You get so used to have your ready file of important documents and even as a new caregiver - always handle myself - caregivers that have power of attorney would have no problem because we would all have that on our hard drive - you are going  to be ask 

And I like how it says, what documents can I submit to show legal status so that way, if someone is not sure if not sure if what they have will constitute what you have spelled out there…

M: Anything else that helped on this page makes your decision? 

P: The verbiage was pretty straight forward (talks about language) 

M: Can you tell me what you were looking at on the PFC screen? 

P: Primary means main so I just automatically click yes because I am the PFC. 

M: Okay

P: Most people will just have one. 

M: I wanted to share this screen (shows SFC screen)? 

P: It might be easier having it all at once. Is there just one caregiver click here (and this doesn’t even come up) The SFC question  is pretty straightforward. A little “click box” 

M: We were just playing around with a couple of ideas (shares surfaces language for PFC) What are your thoughts? 

P: I think that’s straightforward (talks through). It makes sense (simplify a bit more) - very direct 

M: The last screen I am going to show you (Shares SFC) 

P: That’s every possible situation 

M: Anything else or thoughts on the form? 

P: It looks really good. Like I said, visually alot better then it was 12 years okay. 



## Warm-up Questions - 5 minutes

Thanks for joining us today! My name is Jonathan and I also have some colleagues on the line observing and taking notes. Today we're going to review a prototype about federal benefits that are provided to caregivers of Veterans.

- This entire session should take about 45 minutes. I want to be sure not to keep you much longer, so I may occasionally prompt you with the next question or topic.
- In this session, we want to hear your honest opinions. We are not testing your ability. We just want to improve these tools to better meet Veteran's needs. I will not be offended by any opinions you express, and I welcome your feedback.
- You'll be interacting with a prototypes and a demo tool. This is a demo tool that may not function exactly the way you expect. Some areas of the prototype will be clickable, and some will not. Since it's a demo, none of your actions will affect your actual VA information or benefits.
- Please talk aloud as you're looking through things. For example, say "now I'd click on this.. what's this?" This helps me understand what's going through your head while using the tool.
- To protect your privacy, we are not going to use your real name or Social Security Number today. Feel free to make-up a name, birthday, SSN...I can always provide that information if you want
- If for any reason and at any time you want to stop the session, please let me know.

**Recording Instructions**

- **Are you comfortable if I record my screen and audio as we talk today?** We use the recordings to confirm that we have captured your opinions accurately. The recordings are destroyed after we complete analysis, and none of your comments will be attributed to you directly. 
    - If yes: **Once I start recording, I am going to confirm that you are ok with me recording this session once more.** 

*Start recording to the Cloud.*

- **I have started recording. I'd like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record my screen and audio as we talk today?"** 

P: Yes

Great. Now we're really ready to begin!

## Warm-up Questions - 5 minutes


**For Caregivers:**

P: This is a lot nicer. Big buttons, then it was back in the day. 

M: Let's say you heard about a way you could receive benefits from the VA, and that you could apply online at VA.gov. You have navigated to the screen we are looking at. Now let's imagine you've decided you'd like to apply for these benefits. Go ahead and show us what you would do to apply. 


P: Click right here, Start my application. I mean, it’s really straightforward. I like the big bold. I like the contrast of the blue button. I like the amount of white space. Sorry, I am going to geek out from a design perspective. And not that it’s comprehensive from Vietnam era. Vietnam era people are not tech-friendly. In fact, I walked through a caregiver...I do a lot of advocacy  and volunteerism and I just walked a caregiver through this the other day that is like 70 years old. So, this makes visual sense.  


## Thank you and Closing

Well we really appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us today. Your feedback is so helpful to us as we continue to improve our products and services for Veterans and service members.
Great, thank you so much again, and enjoy the rest of your day!
