##### Meeting Notes - 11/18/2016

## Walk through Form 22-1995

Caitlin Weber, Alex Taylor, Molly, Shay



VONAPP last updated: **2004**

Paper form last updated: **2015**

This form, even more than the last, should rely on **the paper form as a the source of truth**.



Changing schools is the most common reason someone might use this form, though there are a few others. We also discovered an undocumented reason that someone might use the form:

- you're changing schools,
- you're changing your educational, professional, vocational goal,
- you left your program due to unsatisfactory attendance, progress, or conduct; and you're now reentering the same program, or
- you were receiving VA education benefits as a veteran and now wish to receive benefits while on active military duty.
- **you would like to add new service periods to your military history to increase your total benefit eligibility.**

Application can also be used by:

- Spouses or dependents that are recipients of TOE and Chapter 33. Their original application would have been through Form 22-1990E



Form is processed at RPOs, but since applicant will already be in the system, the process is more direct.

- No clerk entry needed
- Directly into TIMS
- VCE can work to completion without pass off between people



**Expectation:** Language and question framing changes that we made in the 1990 should be reflected in the 1995



****



**Q #1F:** (SSN)

- Asking for sponsor SS# is probably irrelevant. 
- Reframe to ask for only Applicant SS#

**Q #1D:** (File number)

- File number is still necessary. 
- Most records are under SS#, but some older records are under an 8 digit file number

**Q #2:** (which benefit)

- Expectation is that you will select the same benefit that you are currently receiving
- No reason that data would be unavailable in BDN
- Likely that we can **remove this question**

**Q #4A & 4B:** (Education or professional goal)

- Collapse these questions into 1 questions.

**Q #4D:** (Previous school)

- Should be in BDN
- Likely that we can **remove this question**

**Q #4E:** (Why you stopped at previous)

- Frame as two explicit question 'date' and 'why'

**Q #5:** (Direct deposit)

- Not a likely need for people, but this is an appropriate place to give them the option
- Use a conditional yes/no to expose

**Q #6:** (Dependents)

- 1978 question still matters, 

**Q #7:** (Recent periods of service)

- Military history only needs to know about new periods of service since the last time you applied.
- Why don't we ask service status here? (Follow up with Tom/Shay)
- Would the 1990 Q14 (apply this period to benefit) question also need to be available for new service periods that are added?

**Q #7D:** (Character of discharge)

- Different chapters have different thresholds for whether character of discharge matters
- Not on 1990
- Try to **remove this question**

**Q #7E:** (Title 10 or 32 authority)

- This matters for some benefits
- Why don't we ask this on the 1990? (Follow up with Tom/Shay)
- Try to **remove this question**

**Q #8:** (Expect to receive benefits from GETA)

- Pretty rare
- Effectively 'no double dipping'
- Will not wipe out eligibility, but won't let you receive the eligible benefits during the same period
