# Research Plan for Apartment IA Proof of Concept Testing, October 2021
## Goals

The Health Apartment Team is conducting research to validate the IA of the health apartment proof of concept (POC) and the discoverability of health things within the apartment. The outcome of this tree test research will provide us with insights into what works and what needs work from the start. The tree test will also give us a clear, quantifiable benchmark to improve on in our iterations. 

**BACKGROUND** 

This project maintains the vision of the Digital Modernization Strategy set in 2017: To simplify and unify the Veteran health experience into a single front door by bringing all things health, including My HealtheVet, into VA.gov. We will create an accessible, usable, and discoverable health "home."


**RESEARCH QUESTIONS** 

See 'Tasks' below for a detailed list. Overall, 12 tasks were prioritized to balance thoroughness with an appropriate cognitive load for Veterans; see 'Method' below for additional information on how these tasks were prioritized based on various analytics.


## Method	
Based on [generative research in early 2021](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/tree/master/products/health-care/digital-health-modernization/research/generative-research-study-1) and [the recommendations from that generative research](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/tree/master/products/health-care/digital-health-modernization/research/health-apartment-ia), we will conduct this first round of research using a tree test to understand the discoverability of tasks and to validate the organization of information in the apartment. Built in Treejack by Optimal Workshop, we will pilot the tree test with Veterans on the internal team for clarity, timing, and general feedback prior to using it with Perigean recruits. This research will be asychronous (i.e., no live moderation), with opportunity for participants to share additional thoughts during the test itself. 

To balance comprehensiveness with cognitive load, we decided to test no more than 20 tasks per study. Here's how we prioritized which tasks we should test first. 
* We used top search terms to define top tasks, assuming that these are high-need, low-discoverability items. [Go to our analytics page for more information.](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/blob/master/products/health-care/digital-health-modernization/analytics/Analytics.md) 
* We prioritized tasks/topics that we had questions about.

*Note: Because the "big 4" tools (messages, appointments, pharmacy, and records) are well understood in MHV, the apartment POC did not make major shifts to them. Thus, we are not testing them in this first tree test.

[Go to the apartment sitemap Mural.](https://app.mural.co/t/departmentofveteransaffairs9999/m/departmentofveteransaffairs9999/1630530056765/d3d8cdb3f341d709f2f6b6658bbd7d6b6c50bf75?sender=uaf2e527a10dad9fb94a02129) 

[Preview the tree test.](https://adhoc.optimalworkshop.com/treejack/4b5t64uj) 


### Tasks
The prioritized 12 tasks, linked to our testing objective, were carefully curated such that they reflect how Veterans might naturally approach the website. We ensured that the answer wasn't given away by using the same language that’s in tree itself, and we used plain language to write the tasks. Below, the parentheticals describe the general goal of the task.

1.  You need to see a podiatrist, but live 110 miles away from the closest VA podiatrist. You want to find out whether you're eligible to see a non-VA doctor for this. (learning about community care)

2. You've determined you are eligible to see this podiatrist. How would you go about seeing this doctor? (viewing and managing appointments)

3. You have a 30% disability rating. You want to learn what health benefits your disability rating qualifies you for. (learning about disability benefits)

4. Your VA doctor prescribed you a hearing aid. After a few months, the battery has died. You want to order a replacement battery. (ordering health supplies)

5. You drove to your primary care appointment at VA. How would you go about getting reimbursed for gas? (requesting travel pay)

6. You were notified that you have an outstanding amount for a VA appointment. You want to find out how much you owe. (viewing medical copayments)

7. You need to go to the dentist. How would you find out what coverage you qualify for? (learning about dental benefits)

8. You have just received a diagnosis for PTSD. You want to find resources to help manage it. (learning about specific health conditions (i.e., research health))

9. Your doctor told you that you have high blood pressure and asked you to track those numbers online between visits. How would you enter that information? (tracking self-entered health data)

10. You want to subscribe to the My HealtheVet newsletter. (reading or subscribing to the MHV newsletter)

11. You had some blood tests done at VA this week and you want to see those results. (viewing labs & test results)

12. You got married and you want to add your spouse as a dependent to your plan. (managing benefits)

Post-study question: On what page would you expect to find anything COVID-19 related?


## Participants and Recruitment	
We've proposed using Perigean to recruit and schedule 60 qualified participants for each of the 6 groups outlined below (10 participants in each group). These groups build off the original 3 from the generative research with dditional segmentation by familiarity with MHV and another group that includes current service members. We ask that each of the groups be considered a separate recruitment effort and have drafted screening questions in the attached attached Excel file.

[VFS-APT_IA_Tree_Test_1_Recruitment_Screener.xlsx](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/files/7392368/VFS-APT_IA_Tree_Test_1_Recruitment_Screener.xlsx)

One benefit of this recruiting strategy is the ability to have participants within these clear segments. However, we have also considered a friends-and-family style recruitment approach. As familiarity with MHV is a key criterion, this could be accomplished through a post within the MHV newsletter and by leveraging MO Studio's Veteran network. This has the benefits of engaging OCC partners in the study design and leveraging their high newsletter subscriber base as participants. If we go this route, we will need to refine the study in Treejack and consider how, or if, to segment the participants in our analysis.

**>> When will we decide if we are going forward with Perigean or recruiting friends and family? If we’re going forward with Perigean, then we should remove the friends-and-family option from our research plan.**

***Groups***

We will be testing with these 6 groups or segments. Below are minimum numbers for the users who must meet the primary criteria within each recruiting segment, along with secondary criteria to be applied across all segments.
1. Familiar with MHV, have VA healthcare, segmented by number of years with the VA/eras of service **>> Do we mean number of years as a Veteran? That is different from number of years with the VA (e.g., years having VA health care). Era of service generally relates age and to number of years as a Veteran -- that is how we segmented in our generative research (not by number of years with VA).**
2. Not familiar with MHV, have VA healthcare, segmented by number of years with the VA/eras of service
3. Segmented by use of VA benefits
4. Familiar with MHV, have VA healthcare, segmented by caregiver and dependent needs
5. Not familiar with MHV, have VA healthcare, segmented by caregiver and dependent needs
6. Current service members

**PRIMARY CRITERIA**

***Criteria and Segmentation***

1. Familiar with MHV, have VA healthcare, segmented by number of years with the VA / eras of service:
_All participants must be Veterans who are enrolled in VA health care, AND have signed in to MHV in the last 6 months_
- At least 2 participants who have left the military within the last 3 years
- At least 2 participants who served in Operation Enduring Freedom or the Iraq War
- At least 2 participants who served in the Gulf War
- At least 2 participants who served in the Vietnam War

2. Not familiar with MHV, have VA healthcare, segmented by number of years with the VA / eras of service:
_All participants must be Veterans who are enrolled in VA health care AND have not signed in to MHV in the last 6 months_
- At least 2 participants who have left the military within the last 3 years
- At least 2 participants who served in Operation Enduring Freedom or the Iraq War
- At least 2 participants who served in the Gulf War
- At least 2 participants who served in the Vietnam War

3. Segmented by use of VA benefits:
_Of this population, at least 3 Veterans who are enrolled in VA health care AND have signed in to MHV in the last 6 months_
- At least 2 participants who use health care only, or health care and disability compensation, but no other VA benefit types (e.g. housing, education)
- At least 2 participants who use VA health care + 1 other VA benefit type
- At least 2 participants who use VA health care and 2 or more VA benefit types
- At least 2 participants who don't use VA health care  (Note that these are expected to have no familiarity with MHV)

4. Familiar with MHV, have VA healthcare, segmented by caregiver and dependent needs:
_All participants must be Veterans who are enrolled or have applied for VA health care or caregivers who provide care for a Veteran enrolled in VA health care AND have signed in to MHV in the last 6 months_
- At least 2 participants who access VA benefits for themselves only, without the help of a caregiver
- At least 2 participants who access VA benefits for themselves and their dependents, without the help of a caregiver
- At least 2 participants who are caregivers to Veterans and/or their dependents accessing VA benefits
- At least 2 participants in each group who use private health care providers/insurance to supplement their VA health care

5. Not familiar with MHV, have VA healthcare, segmented by caregiver and dependent needs:
_All participants must be Veterans who are enrolled or have applied for VA health care or caregivers who provide care for a Veteran enrolled in VA health care AND have not signed in to MHV in the last 6 months_
- At least 2 participants who access VA benefits for themselves only, without the help of a caregiver
- At least 2 participants who access VA benefits for themselves and their dependents, without the help of a caregiver
- At least 2 participants who are caregivers to Veterans and/or their dependents accessing VA benefits
- All participants must use or have applied for VA health care:
- At least 2 participants in each group who use private health care providers/insurance to supplement their VA health care

6. Current service members
- At least 2 participants who plan to transition from the military within the next year
- At least 2 participants who served in Operation Enduring Freedom or the Iraq War
- At least 2 participants who served in the Gulf War
- At least 2 participants who served in the Vietnam War


**SECONDARY CRITERIA**

Across the 6 study groups, we would like the sample to include the below targets. 

Gender:
- At least 6 women

Inclusion:
- At least 18 people of color
- At least 15 without a degree
- At least 10 with immigrant origins
- At least 30 with an identified cognitive disability 

Geographic distribution:
- At least 10 participants from the east coast
- At least 10 participants from the mid-west
- At least 10 participants from the west coast
- At least 15 participants from a rural area

Notes on decisions for above criteria: 
- We assume that the IA doesn't need to be tested specifically on a mobile device as it is the tree only, not a wireframe designed for mobile or desktop specifically. We recommend recruiting for participants to conduct testing on mobile devices at later stages.
- We spoke with Josh Kim regarding testing with Treejack on assistive devices and learned that it is technically "accessible," but not actually usable with screen readers. He recommended coding a tree in codepen for testing with screen readers. Based on this, we propose launching this study with Treejack for participants who don't use screen readers and adding a codepen tree testing to the backlog to address the risk of testing without this critical user group. 


## Timeline
- Conduct research: 10/29/2021 - 11/5/2021 (estimated, subject to change)
- Length of session: 10-15 minute asychronous online test
- Draft of research plan complete: 10/19/2021


## Team Roles	
- Research guide writing and task development: Meg Peters (meg.peters@va.gov); Lara Siopis (lara@themostudio.com); Paula Mendoza (paula@themostudio.com); Emily Mann (emily.mann1@va.gov)
- Treejack by Optimal Workshop development: Jared Cooke (jared@themostudio.com); Paula Mendoza (paula@themostudio.com)
- Participant recruiting & screening: Perigean
- Project point of contact:	Lauren Alexanderson (lauren.alexanderson@va.gov)
- Participant(s) for pilot test: Jared Cooke (jared@themostudio.com); Shawn Drinkard (drink@themostudio.com)
- VFS-APT research team: Meg Peters (meg.peters@va.gov); Lara Siopis (lara@themostudio.com); Paula Mendoza (paula@themostudio.com); Jared Cooke (jared@themostudio.com); Lauren Alexanderson (lauren.alexanderson@va.gov)
