HCADupes.P3.2019.03.06.1230

## Intro (2 minutes)

Comfortable with recording.

## Warm-up Questions (2 minutes)

- “About yourself”- I’m a current full-time student and Army reserves as well. I am in the Reserves as a Mechanic – 91B. I go to school for photography.
- “Have you used va.gov”- Yes numerous times before
- “Do you have a va.gov account”-I do for like Ebenefits
- “Have you applied for healthcare”- yes.

## First Task: Sign in prompt on HCA intro page - 5 minutes

**1. Why do you think the website is suggesting you sign in before starting your application?**

“Suggesting”-Um, so, in case you have to like walk away from the computer or internet goes out or something, so if you sign in it will save everything you’ve done. So you can always go back in and continue instead of starting all over.

**2. In real life, do you think you would sign in before starting the application or would you continue without signing in?**

“Sign in”- I would sign in first. It is also a lot easier and would bring up my information if I signed in.

I’m trying to scroll and it’s not scrolling.

**3. What do you think will happen if you click "Start your application without signing in."?**

“Expect”- I think the application will just start and I just won’t be signed in. 

**4. Is there anything you think could be improved about this prompt?**

“Improve”- Um, no. I think what it tells you in the grey box works perfectly fine.

## Second Task: Signed out ID page - 10 minutes

**Now that we're on the next page:

**1. Can you tell me what you're looking at here?**

“Seeing”- Again, I can’t scroll on my end. OK… so just looks like basic information on first page, so far. Yea.  [Scroll not working]

**2. What do you think the purpose of this page is?**

“Purpose”- Just to identify who you are. And they can probably pull up some of your records based on it.

**3. Why do you think we are asking for a name/birth date/ssn *before* filling out the health care application?**

“Why”-Just for identity purposes. 

“First page of application”-I’d assume this is the first page of the healthcare application. 

**4. Before clicking anything, what do you think will happen when you click "Continue Application"?**

“Expect continue”-You would probably get a prompt that the fields that are required are not filled in. So, don’t think it would not go to the next page until they are filled out. 

“If complete”-It would go to the next page. 
“What’s there”-Ummm… that’s a good question. I’m not sure.

**5. Do you trust this page?**

“Trust”- Yes. 

“Why”- um, because this is the page the VA I guess sent me to.

**6. What questions do you have about this page?**

“Questions”- What is the OMB control number? [Answer provided.] No questions. This page seems straightforward.

**7. What could be improved about this page?**

“Improve”- I don’t think it needs anything. Again, it’s pretty straightforward, just fill in the boxes and go to the next page.

**OK, let's pretend you have filled out the form. Please click into the First Name box for me — this will fill in the form in the prototype, though in real life, you'd be able to type into each field as you would normally expect to.**

**Please click "Continue to the Application." (Wait for "Please sign in prompt" to load) Now it looks like you're being asked to sign in to VA.gov.**

**1. Why do you think the site is asking you to sign in?**

“Why”- It might recognize that I have an account already. And again, probably to save my information incase something happens it is already there. 

**2. What do you expect will happen when you sign in?**

I think it will let me continue to the next page.
“Next page”- Probably service information, I think. Is probably the next page.

**3. How are you feeling at this point in your experience trying to get to the health care application?**

“Feeling”-well, it’s a little frustrating so far because I could continue as a guest and not sign in, but now it is prompting me to sign in. so that’s a little jagged. 

**4. Imagine this were real life – what do you think you would do from here?**

“Real life- Probably try this again later. Cause again I’m prompt to not sign in. So, I’d say, yea, I’ll do this later for something. 

## Third Task: LOA1 identity verification prompt and ID verification flow - 10 minutes

**So now we're back on the health care intro page, except this time you are seeing a message "Please verify your identity before applying for VA health care."**

**1. Why do you think you are seeing this prompt? Why do you think you are being asked to verify your identity before you can apply for health care?**

“Why prompt”-To make sure that it is you and no one is using your information to get healthcare.

**2. What do you think this has to do with the previous page we looked at where you had to put in your name/birth date/SSN?**

“Why asked”- Oh.. maybe the information that was put in is wrong and doesn’t match the VA’s system. It is just another way to verify that it is you, in case you have a typo or something. 

**3. How are you feeling at this point?**

“Feel”-This part I don’t mind. I would rather make sure it is the right person. So, I don’t mind verifying, like I’m okay with this

**4. Imagine this were real life – what do you think you would do from here?**

“real life”- I would verify my identity.

**5. What do you expect to happen when you click "verify my identity?"**

“Expect”- It might ask me about service information. Like from my dd214 or do any of these addresses match where I’ve lived before. Or family members type of thing.

**6. How could this prompt be improved?**

“Improve) I don’t think there does. There is even a link incase you want to read more about it and a phone number. I think this is pretty straightforward. 

**Now we are at the end of this process. Before we click "Finish:"**

**1. In real life, do you think you would have completed the identity verification flow to get to the next step in the health care application process?**

“Real life”-Yes.

**2. What do you think will happen next?**

“Next”- It will prompt me to go back to application, or to sign in. I’m curious about which one of the two but that’s my train of thought at this point.

## Fourth Task: LOA3 Warning - 12 minutes

**1. Tell me what you're seeing here. What is this page communicating to you?**

“Communicate”-{reading}. Ok. That’s good to know. This is just pretty much letting me know the status and why it that way.  Again, It’s straightforward.

**2. Why do you think you are now being told you don't qualify for VA health care?**

“Why”- Because what’s on my DD214 that was sent to the VA when I was discharged.

“Notice date”- Oh no… say that again. Yea, I did see that. 

“Based on prior application”- I think that is based on… I guess like when I applied. If today was Jan 30, 2015. It’s taking into consideration like all of my service up until then. 
“Clarification”- I think that it had to do with my previous, it was clear. Sorry.

**3. How do you feel at this point?**

“Feel”- I’m pretty bummed that I don’t qualify for healthcare.

**4. In real life, what do you think you would do next?**

“real life”- I wouldn’t do anything. It tells me I didn’t serve for 24 months continue months so I would just assume there’s nothing I can do about that unless I joined the military again and try to up those months

**5. Would you reapply?**

“Reapply”- No.

**6. What do you think would happen if you clicked "Reapply for VA health care?"**

“What would happen”- I’d get the same answer. It says, in bold, that a new application would not change our decision just based on my service time.

“Expect”- Might take me back to the beginning where I give my name and information. Bring me back to this prompt where I don’t qualify. 

**7. What questions do you have?**

“Question”- No questions.  I do like that the phone number is repeated multiple times for different sections.

**8. How could this page be improved?**

“Improve”- I think it is good as is. What needs paid attention is in bold already. Sao, I think it’s good.

**ENROLLED**

“Communicating”- [Reading] I think this screen is trying to tell me that I am enrolled, again and it shows me the date that I enrolled, where my preferred VAMC is – which is good to know – and if I need to change information, where to go.
“Feel”- I feel fine. It is informative. Again, I like that it shows me the preferred VAMC, it’s good to know.
“Reapply”- No because it is already telling me I am already enrolled. So, I wouldn’t have to.
“Improved”- I think it’s fine. 

**REJECTED**

“Communicate”- I do like who through the box is telling you the decision and why it was made?
It’s telling me that I didn’t qualify for health care. I did serve 24 months. But I don’t qualify because might make too much or I have not received a Medal of Honor or Purple Heart or I do not have service-connected disability. So, it can’t just be that I served two years in the military on active duty to be eligible. If I want to reapply I need to work with a case management team that I need to reapply.

“Feel”-I’d feel like I got my answer and If I needed to take a further step to reapply, I’d know who to contact about doing so.
“Reapply”- Only if I felt that I had one of the things at top change. Like income falls. Or if I end up with a disability. Sometimes when you apply you have a disability thing that hasn’t gone through yet. Those types of situations I would reapply. 
“Improve”- I think it is fine as is. Again, they are very well written.

**PENDING**

“Communication”- I’ve seen this one before, or similar to it. It’s telling my application has went through. They just need to verify somethings from my military service, and they will contact me if I need to turn anything in.

“Feeling”- I’d probably call the number and ask if there is a way to submit the document online to speed it up verses than in mail. If that were an option it would be great because sometimes mail takes forever especially on the weather. 
“Reapply”- No, because it tells me no.  I don’t need to.

“Improve”-I don’t think the page itself could be improved, but I do think that if there were an additive feature where I can just upload a scanned copy of my DD-214 or discharge paper to see that would be good. That’s not the page, I think that would be a system thing.  

**EXPIRE**

“Communication”- Telling me my application has expired because I didn’t submit the documents that were needed to be complete within a year and should I apply. Yes, I would definitely click on reapply for VA healthcare.
Why”- .it seems to be the reason my application was not accepted or approved was my fault.  I probably procrastinated some. So, if I could I would ummm just go through to see that my documents were in on time this time and it suggests that I could reapply again. 

Brings up a question, though. On the other pages, when it told me not to. Maybe the link for reapply for VA Healthcare should not be there. Otherwise, people may click it anyways, but this one says yes so this one makes sense why it would be there. It is misleading if the link is there I should be able to click it and reapply, but some people may not scroll and read. They may click it even though it tells them not to. 

“Improve”-No. This page is good.

## Post-Task Interview - 2 minutes

**1. Overall, how did you feel about the entire experience we looked at today? How do you think you would feel if you'd had this experience in real life?**

“Feel”- Umm… Only thing would just be that kind of circle. Continue without signing in, then made me sign in any way that was kind of just a big giant circle. I could’ve saved time by just signing in the first time around. So, if that’s what it wanted me to do, I wish it wouldn’t have given me the option to continue without signing in.

“Feel in real life”- In the beginning, when it told me to sign in, I would’ve went later. But once I had the time to go through all of the steps, I would be been fine. I wouldn’t have bothered me.

**2. In addition to anything you have already mentioned, how could this overall experience be improved?**

“Improve”-Just like I just talked about the reapply link should not be there on all of the pages. Didn’t notice until very end. So, if on the other pages where it says no the link should not be there. Those are my two main points.

“Improved”- Other than what we talked about, everything is fine. Everything needing to be read is in bold. Phone numbers are there for different sections, so if you have any questions specially they still apply. The pages are pretty simple. There’s not much going on color wise to distract you.

## Thank-You and Closing - 1 minutes

Well we really appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us today. Your feedback is so helpful to us as we continue to work on the site and make sure it really works for Veterans.

As a thank you for your participation, we'd like to send you a $50 thank-you check. This will be sent by (Brian/Shannon from) Perigean, the people that recruited you to talk to us today. They'll work w
