HCADupes.P5.2019.03.07.1030

## Intro (2 minutes)

Comfortable with recording.

## Warm-up Questions (2 minutes)

[About yourself] Veteran, retired. 
[Used va.gov] yes I have
[Do you have an account to login] Ebenefits, my HealtheVet, I don’t know if there’s any other websites I can log into.
[You can log into va.gov which we will be using today.]
(John is downloading desktop GTM to access the protype)

## First Task: Sign in prompt on HCA intro page - 5 minutes

**1. Why do you think the website is suggesting you sign in before starting your application?**

[Why do you sign in prior to starting application]  Repeat question, so you can save your work and not restart if you get bumped out.

**2. In real life, do you think you would sign in before starting the application or would you continue without signing in?**

[Would you sign in]  I would sign in prior.

**3. What do you think will happen if you click "Start your application without signing in."?**

Scroll down- 
[What do you think would happen if you clicked]  Well typically VA you would get a PDF to fill out online, I typically get something I have to mail it in. I do it all on Ebenefits, so I don’t have to send it in.

**4. Is there anything you think could be improved about this prompt?**

[Any questions]  Self explanatory.
[Continue without signing in]  It won’t let me click the link.

## Second Task: Signed out ID page - 10 minutes

**Now that we're on the next page:**

**1. Can you tell me what you're looking at here?**

[What do you see]  Block for name, DOB, SS number…

**2. What do you think the purpose of this page is?**

[What is the purpose]  Probably to.. header of the form you are filling out, name, SSN. First page to health care application.

**3. Why do you think we are asking for a name/birth date/ssn *before* filling out the health care application?**

[Why would we ask this before the application]  I think it would be for new application and it asks for that to verify service.

**4. Before clicking anything, what do you think will happen when you click "Continue Application"?**

[What would apply if continue to application]  It would take you to the application or cannot be located in the system. Most veterans coordinate the information through the VA to know if it is a veteran. It has been my experience for the past.

**5. Do you trust this page?**

[Trust]  Yes.

**6. What questions do you have about this page?**

[What questions]  None really, if I didn’t trust I wouldn’t put my SSN down.

**7. What could be improved about this page?**

[Improve]  I like its self-explanatory, it is what it is

**OK, let's pretend you have filled out the form. Please click into the First Name box for me — this will fill in the form in the prototype, though in real life, you'd be able to type into each field as you would normally expect to.**

**Please click "Continue to the Application." (Wait for "Please sign in prompt" to load) Now it looks like you're being asked to sign in to VA.gov.**

**1. Why do you think the site is asking you to sign in?**

[Prompted to sign in why]  I have no idea because I would have signed in the first step. 

[Why would you be asked at this time] To make it a secure connection.

**2. What do you expect will happen when you sign in?**

[What do you expect]  The process will continue, and you will finish form. 

**3. How are you feeling at this point in your experience trying to get to the health care application?**

[How do you feel]  I feel comfortable, I have no problems with it.

**4. Imagine this were real life – what do you think you would do from here?**

[Imagine if it were real life what would you do]  I would sign in.

## Third Task: LOA1 identity verification prompt and ID verification flow - 10 minutes

**So now we're back on the health care intro page, except this time you are seeing a message "Please verify your identity before applying for VA health care."**

**1. Why do you think you are seeing this prompt? Why do you think you are being asked to verify your identity before you can apply for health care?**

 [Why do you have to verify]  You have to be the individual whom is applying for it, you cannot pull people from the crowd and do it for you. I guess you could, but you should do it yourself. How would you verify if it were the veteran.

[Why]  I don’t know, for security reasons.

**2. What do you think this has to do with the previous page we looked at where you had to put in your name/birth date/SSN?**

[Why did we ask]  Seems to be a duplicate because you asked Name, SSN, should you do that prior.

**3. How are you feeling at this point?**

[Feeling]  Confused.
[Why]  You asked for my SSN and name prior but now expecting me to verify it. You should require people to sign in and verity their identity prior.
[How could be fix this to make it less confusing]  I would make this the first screen before applying for VA healthcare.

**4. Imagine this were real life – what do you think you would do from here?**

[Real Life]  I would verify, most likely name and SSN and click continue. I would do this prior to calling for help.

**5. What do you expect to happen when you click "verify my identity?"**

[What do you expect]  I go to the next page and fill out the form.

**6. How could this prompt be improved?**

**Now we are at the end of this process. Before we click "Finish:"** 

**1. In real life, do you think you would have completed the identity verification flow to get to the next step in the health care application process?**

[How could it be improved]  I think if this would be the first page it would be the improvement.
[Click verify identity]

**2. What do you think will happen next?**

[What do you think will happen when you click finish]  It takes you to the application.

## Fourth Task: LOA3 Warning - 12 minutes

**1. Tell me what you're seeing here. What is this page communicating to you?**

[What is it telling you]  It is telling you where you do not qualify for health, and what to do if you think it is wrong or need mental health care.

**2. Why do you think you are now being told you don't qualify for VA health care?**

[Why now]  Because it has taken the information entered in prior screens and determined you are not a veteran or honorably discharged.

[Did you notice the date applied]  Yes.
[Does it have to do with previous application]  My take would be this is the original date applied, if you appeal it than it would be affective the date originally apply.
[Clarification]  I think it would be the information entered today.

**3. How do you feel at this point?**

[How do you feel]  I would call the number and feel curious more than anything else. Why didn’t it allow me to.

**4. In real life, what do you think you would do next?**
**5. Would you reapply?**

[Do you think you would reapply]  Yes.
[Why]  Because I wouldn’t be on the page if I didn’t have all the documentation to prove my service, I would just apply again.
[Do you think it would change the status]  I don’t know, sometimes I forget to place information.

**6. What do you think would happen if you clicked "Reapply for VA health care?"**

[Would you click link] Yes.
[What would happen]  It might take you through the same process or more questions.
[Why]  It wants you to upload new information to verify claim.
[What do you mean by same process]  It would take me to the same page through the same application to answer more questions while filling out the form.
[More rigorous application]  Yes.

**7. What questions do you have?**

[Any questions at this stage]  Nothing really.

**8. How could this page be improved?**

[How could it be improved]  I think its pretty good the way it is.

**Enrolled**

[Screen communicated]  You are already enrolled, and my first question is why you would not know if you were already enrolled.
[Feeling]  Why am I already enrolled who did it for me.
[Reapply]  No you’re already enrolled.
[Improvements]  A link to update information.
[Did you notice the VA form 10-10EZR]  No I did not notice that.
[What do you think the form does]  It would probably update my information. I would have to go to google to figure out what the form is.
[Did you notice the link that askes to update information]  Yes I see that.
[Does that answer your questions]  Yes it would answer my question. I went right from the application date and skipped all in the middle and went to the end of the page.

**Pending**

[What is it communication]  It is the review is in progress.
[How would you feel]  It would answer my question and tell me to be patient.
[Would you reapply]  No.
[How could it be improved]  I think it looks pretty good.

**Expired**

[What is communicating]  It has expired.
[Feeling]  What did I do wrong? I didn’t submit, or I didn’t respond to information that was requested.
[Reapply]  Yes.
[Improvement]  A reason as to why it has expired would be nice.

## Post-Task Interview - 2 minutes

[How do you feel about the process]  I feel like it was pretty straightforward and easy.
[Why]  Logical fashion, the first or second page could be deleted but when in a logical fashion.
[Any other improvements for experience]  No not really.

## Thank-You and Closing - 1 minutes

Well we really appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us today. Your feedback is so helpful to us as we continue to work on the site and make sure it really works for Veterans.

As a thank you for your participation, we'd like to send you a $50 thank-you check. This will be sent by (Brian/Shannon from) Perigean, the people that recruited you to talk to us today. They'll work with you to figure out the right place to send it.
