# April 11, 2024: Form field removal pre-CCB
*Ask VA VA.gov Team*

## Attendees

- Ask VA VA.gov: Becky Phung, Tyler Gindraux
- CRM: Chris Clemens, Tamara Kanterman
- BVA: Dylan Dubbs, Robert Eakman, Jennifer Feuer, Scott Hadley, Breon Johnson, Kevin Powers, David Smith

## Summary

- We recommended removing gender and reason you're contacting us.
- They have no issues removing the recommended fields.

## Actions

- [ ] No actions

## Notes

- Split inquiry
  - Decided to leave it as is.
- Field removal
  - Reason you’re contacting us
    - Scott Hadley: “VBA supports whatever changes best improve the Veteran / submitter experience.”
  - Gender identity
    - Breon: “I understand getting MPI data, my question is, as far as receiving the information from the submitter. I know you stated here that unless the gender … Are we talking about each one of these fields? Or just the fields that don’t identity as M or F?”
    - Becky: “This is confusing. This analysis was done with the current form. Which is just a single character, M or F. Or random characters. So this is saying that in less than 1% of inquiries that have gender data, a submitter will give gender data. This is saying that having this field wouldn’t significantly increase how much we know about gender. Most gender data we have is in MPI.”
    - Breon: “Okay.”
  - Breon: “I can’t think of anything else. We all talked about it before the meeting and we all had a consistent thought that the approach you’re going with right now is good with us.”
- Points of contact
  - Breon: “Which LOBs? [They have many.]”
  - VBA-ART: Breon, Matt, Kevin Powers
  - VR&E: David Smith, Jackie Lou
- Quick submit/attachments
  - Matt: “Our queue won’t allow attachments.”
  - “So if they say, “my DD214 is attached,” we need to send them through Quick Submit.”
  - “I monitor and I haven’t seen anyone complain about using Quick Submit.”
  - “Right now, we send people to Quick Submit.”
  - “The other thing people do as a workaround is, instead of attaching a document directly they’ll send a link to Google Docs or iCloud. We don’t do that. We have a project we’re working on with a bot that’s going to identify those twice a day. If we have anything in our queue, that tells people we don’t accept docs that way, you’re going to have to use Quick Submit. Which is what our agents should do now.”
