# August 30, 2023: Compensation business line review
*Ask VA Integration Team*

## Agenda

- Introductions
- Review AVA form fields
- Review category and topic names

## Attendees
 
- Our team: Tyler, Becky, Ruchi, Chante
- CRM team: Shelby, Wayne, Maria, Jaime
- Pension/Fiduciary: Angelita Taylor, Nancy Williams
- NCC: Scott Hadley
- VBA-Outreach, Transition & Economic Development (OTED): Robert Eakman
- VBA-ART: Breon Johnson
- Not present: Jennifer Fuhrer (Pension/Fiduciary)

## Key takeaways

- Breon noted that VBA ART does not refer to the submitter's response to `tell us the reason you're contacting us`:
> "VBA ART does not use that. We focus on the content of the question."

- Both NCC and Pension & Fiduciary teams said they'll use which contact method a submitter prefers:
> "We do respond in the manner they request unless there's any issue with the contact method. If they ask for mail, we will do that. Same for phone, email.""

- The Compensation team doesn't use `gender` to answer inquiries:
> "We don't use that at all. Especially if someone has pronouns. Most of our responses are auto-generated. We don't pull reports about this or anything like that. We don't use it.""

- The military service information fields are used for authentication purposes, Breon said:
> "We need their name, branch of service and SSN. Service number is kind of outdated. We don't really use that or the EDIPI number. But that might change."

- We proposed the category be updated to `Disability compensation` with mixed feedback. We plan to follow up with Breon, too:
> "Best just to leave it as compensation."
>
> "I would prefer to be consistent with what's on VA.gov. I'm okay with changing it because that's how VA.gov has that language."

- We learned that `Fiduciary program` does not always include guardianship or custodianship (it's more complex than that). So we're considering using the label, `Fiduciary program (Guardianship or Custodianship)` across Ask VA. This is a category name, but also a topic name a few times within Ask VA.

## Actions

- [ ] Compile outstanding questions for Breon about category and topic names

## References

- [Category, topic and subtopic proposed names spreadsheet](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1AlUqvwn49ah2gHniTwx3x0afOPliKgURo575e73OH40/edit#gid=1192783561) we reviewed in Google Sheets.
- [Form fields review (with business lines)](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1GIsq9Y6Ap9mBUL49j1Ad7tm1N_nfD0Yoxw9ThtexCMU/edit#gid=329502423) we reviewed in Google Sheets.
- [Complete meeting notes](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1y5nzZ1pDojdTjKEXu3d0eM_jxj72WrSRxaEsZOoiqkA/edit) in Google Docs.
