# Vet Center Outreach Specialist Interview

**Interview date:** August 28, 2020 <br></br>
**Time:** 10am

VC = Vet Center
MVC = Mobile Vet Center

### Questions
[GENERATIVE QUESTIONING – 30 MIN]

**Warm up**
* How long have you been an outreach specialist at the VA?
> Since 2010. 10 years. Started as MVC driver, did that for about 4 to 4 and a half yrs. Then switched to “bricks and mortar” outreach specialist. MVC went to another location that was a bit more rural, where it could be used more efficiently than in an urban area.

* What brought you to this line of work?
> I was in the Army. Enlisted in 2001. 9/11 happened when I was in basic training. Training got more intense that it would normally be. Was deployed in 2003, was truck driver in Iraq. Came back and got out of military within 6 months of coming back. Had a son. Made changes for my family — my son was a little over a year old and didn’t know me.

> Went in and out of VA, counseling. Got job in VA as a file clerk in 2006. Every year I just asked to train on whatever, just kept going up and up. Got married. Family. School — now I am a licensed counselor. 

> MVC was when I went back to school. Got me out and about. 

> “It’s a perfect job because I can absolutely help vets where they are, bring them resources… And connect them to the VA.”

* Have you worked as an outreach specialist in more than one district or region?
> Always been at Orlando VC as an outreach specialist. Started at Daytona VA MVC.  

**Role**
* How would you describe your role at VA?
> Job is to make sure we can connect with community and VA resources and connect vets to RCS as a whole. Community resources and VA resources are a part of RCS, a part of our mission statement. 


> “When you bring vets into RCS, you always connect them with resources they need at VA or in the community.”

> Identifying gap needs. Asking counselors, community — figuring out what needs of vets we are not meeting. “This is a huge part of what an outreach specialist does” — identifying those needs and making connections in the community.

* If you had to break down these responsibilities into percentages, what might that look like?
> 50% of my time is advocating and community partnerships. Building relationships. 
> 
> 30% of time building relationships with vets in community, whether talking to vets in the community or talking with them 1 on 1. 
> 10% collaboration in our own VC. Paperwork, follow up, what went well, what did not. Strategizing.
> 
> 10-15% marketing. We do a lot of marketing, are very straggly, because we have limited means for now. Social media, Eventbrite, getting word out in community. “Digital marketing, especially now, is starting to take a larger part of what we do.”

* How about the role of the clinicians at your Vet Center, can you tell me what that role looks like?
> Clinicians are very integral part — 1 on 1 service to vets. Marriage, family groups. Identifying social and economic services. Figuring out if they can get outreach specialists to help with some services. Like resume services, outreach. Clinicians are good at identifying what they should spend their time doing and figuring out how outreach specialists can help

> When they do the outreach plan… We have a counselor who is also a combat vet, he really reaches out to disabled vets. I write my outreach plan with him in mind. Another counselor works with women, so I do my outreach plan with her in mind. 

> Have different levels of outreach specialists— we have 7, 9, and 11 (GS level). I am an 11 so I have some cases. Some outreach specialists do support groups; one does an art group. Outreach specialists (“VOPs”) add a lot of individual services to what counselors do. 

> I know we have a new PD (director) coming soon, so that may change things. 

> For an outreach specialist, the amount of supervision depends on GS level. GS 11 has very little supervision. GS 7 probably won’t see individuals alone. A GS 9 might start seeing individuals. An 11 might do a walk in and might give that client directly to a counselor. 

> Biggest thing is time and experience, how much time they have hands-on with that veteran. 

> Number of clinicians varies depending on VC case load. Here in Orlando, if fully staffed we have 5 counselors, an office manager and me (a VOP). 

> There are a few that do have 2 outreach specialists. But it’s a bricks and mortar and MVC person.

* Once a client starts using services, does the relationship between you and the client end or change?
> 

**Eligibility**
* Can you walk me through the process for determining eligibility for Vet Center services?
> ”When in the field, It’s basically no veteran gets turned away.”

> To be eligible: vet was  in war zone, combat, or experienced traumatic event. 

> National Guard, mortuary affairs, drone, bereavement, MST. (Think “Reserve” was in this list.)

> Explaining to vets that the services for family are specifically related to the vet and their military experience. Bringing up the fact that it doesn’t matter what their discharge status is. They can have a dishonorable discharge. If they are working on a discharge upgrade, they just need to let us know that. We don’t need to know details. 

> Their eligibility is based on war time, combat, expeditionary medal. We ask them in 1st or 2nd visit to bring DD214. Especially Navy. Navy is a bit different. They might be in waters that are combat and not know it. 


* How does a potential client figure out their own eligibility? e.g., a non-married couple
> I tell them to come in and bring their stuff — we can interpret it and figure out eligibility. 

> I tell them to come to the VA, to talk to a VA service officer, someone who is proficient at looking at DD214. If they insist on looking at eligibility on their own, I tell them to look for expeditionary medal, hazardous duty pay, or any service medal specific to an area of conflict. 

* What questions do they ask you the most? Or is there anything potential clients find confusing about this process?
> VC has a bit wider range of eligibility than the medical center does. We include more areas of conflict. That’s why I have them bring their DD214 so we can look at it. They might have been in areas of high hostility or conflict and they are not tech considered a combat vet, but if they are in an area like that, they may have gotten hazardous duty pay and may be eligible. Persian Gulf. Also mentioned Africa. 

> They ask me about gray areas of conflict all the time. 

**Clients**
* Can you describe the different types of clients that you work with? (Where in the journey are your clients. e.g. Newly separated, families during bereavement, family In crisis mode)
> 


* If you had to break down the types into percentages that you work with, what might that look like?
> 70% Vietnam vets. 
> 10% MST. 
> Next would be 10% Iraq-Afghanistan. 
> Next 10% everything else — Persian Gulf, Grenada, Lebanon. 

* Do different types of clients tend to need different services, e.g. a Veteran vs a spouse or child?
> Have more Vietnam support groups. Those vets are not necessarily looking for change; they are looking for support. Groups tends to be support, social. 

> Services geared towards women vets and Iraq-Afghanistan vets tend to be more clinical. Coping skills, anger mgmt. I use the term “younger” loosely that our Iraq-Afghanistan vets are 20-58 years old. War has been so long. Some vets from Iraq-Afghanistan have adult kids in Iraq-Afghanistan. “There are generation gaps even in the same ‘eras.’ ”

> For Iraq-Afghanistan, Persian Gulf — from the 1990s to 2010, they reached out for services. But since 2011 they are not in group services.  Yes, they get individualized services. They are busy, working. Counselors meet them during evening and weekend hours. 

**Interacting with Clients**
* What are the different ways in which you interact with your clients? e.g. Phone, in person, one-on-one, in a group setting, in the community?
> Phone. “Google is our best referral.” We get calls form ppl saying I just Google /Orlando veteran services/. 

> Job fairs, events, walking around downtown. There are homeless vets downtown. Tables at medical centers. Fishing trips — “They will eventually talk to you about something.” 

> Walking groups - “We will just walk around a lake and talk to them.”

> Virtual - Since March, Skype, WebEx. “WebEx has been really good.”

LH - “What’s your opening line?”
> I wear my veteran hat. Give them my card. Ask them if they need services. “Have you heard about the VC?” If reluctant, I talk to them about what branch of service they were in. Talk to them about what they did in military. “Just talk to them as if I was talking to any other veteran, as if I was in the VFW on my day off and I was talking to a veteran.” It doesn’t work to say hey, I work at the VA… 

* Can you tell me how Mobile Vet Centers get used in your area?
> We have a lot of rural areas, but not quite as much as if we were going to West or Midwest.

> MVCs - “we set them up as a giant billboard.” People see the giant seals. We also use MVC for events. 
> 
> Melbourne event - we set up a little ways form the traveling wall. 1st thing vets see when they are done walking through the wall is the VC. (The wall seems to be military monument.) We can have them come into the MVC and talk or cry. “It creates a safe place” for them to have a moment, maybe talk. Or talk to a counselor. 

> Catchment area - schedule MVC to go once or twice a month and have counseling appointments. This way, vets don’t have to drive an hour and a half to go to a VC. 

LH - are those existing clients? 
> It could be both. Last year we marketed to VFW, American Legion. Put it on Eventbrite. Used the medical center’s social media, generated new clients. Had enough new clients to justify an MOU with local health department, who granted us a space to see vets in that area monthly on a permanent basis. 

> Recurring ones are clients but we also see walk ins.

* How about Community access points? How might those vary?
> MVC created so many new clients, so much interest that it created a CAP and moved to once a week. Could be as little as needed or once a week. If a CAP moves to every day of week, it would become an outstation, a mini VC.

> Outstations and CAPs give same services as VC but on a “much smaller scale.”

* Are there other ways you would see interacting with Veterans? (e.g., chatbot, email)
> It would be helpful to have some type of calendar, a way to promote our own events, things we are doing locally without having to go through other channels. It would be helpful if we had ability to do some outdoor activities and they were created by VCs so it’s not us tagging along after the community partners. We don’t have the means to do that on our own. 

> “It would be very beneficial if we could create, plan, and implement some those programs ourselves.” One factor is funds; another is liability. For example, if we take 10 vets out horseback riding, the community partner takes on that liability. 

**Services**
* What services are used most frequently by your clients?
> “Definitely groups. Group is probably the #1 thing.”
> Benefit referral. 
> Benefit and resource referral. (This might be the same as above — she might have just been adding “resource.”)
> Individual. 
> Communications and liaison with VAMC. A vet might not be able to easily explain what is going on with a referral. We can help the VAMC understand what the vet wants and needs. 

* How about those used least frequently?
> In this area, the least used is our Reserve and Nat’l Guard partnerships. We have a difficult time. The units are not very proactive; they are reactive. I used to belong to one of those units years ago, so they know me. They are very closed. If there is a suicide… It’s very hard to get them to let mental health services in and be proactive.”

* Are there other services you offer other than the official list?
> Depends on the counselor, the facilitator of the group. They come up with a group purpose — clinical, recreation, supportive. They decide how structured or loose the group will be. “Supportive” is a loose term. Could be weekly check in.  

> The group supports and the counselor gives advice, facilitates — does not necessarily teach something clinical. “Really, it’s the group itself that supports one another.” 

* Does your Vet center offer recreational outings or other activities?
> We have a really large LGBT population in Fla, and a large LGBT veteran population. We do a pride event every year. This year we did a drive through pride event. Promoted through medical center social media and the usual channels. Partners. We created ___ (missed this) and had a lot of decorations. We were all waving American Flags and we handed them the resources through the car. 

> We are serving ALL vets…. We take pride in celebrating all vets, and specifically special populations.”  “Show vets that we recognize them as unique as well.” 

> An issue is funding. If in person, we usually get finger food or a cake. People come from community who don’t identify as a vet (they say they are not), but once you talk to them, you see they are a vet. 

> Staff here will bring in ice to cool down the water. 

> “Free food always brings more vets than nothing.”

> We work closely with volunteer services. They can provide the community with a wish list, get donations. A lot of times we have items donated that way. 

* If so, how are are these offerings categorized? Do they fall under counseling or events or are they their own category?
> 

* How do groups get formed?
> 

* How will Vets find out about these services and activities?
> 

**Events**
* What are some examples of events or recreational activities that you’ve put on or promoted (pre and post COVID)?
> 

* How do you promote events?
> 

* Are there recurring events that Vet Centers offer?
> 

**Tools**
* What tools, websites or resources do you use to plan and publicize outreach events?

LH - how would you publicize an event? 
> “I have mixed feelings because I feel like people look more on social media, but I have mixed feelings about putting VC staff in charge of social media content.”

> vetcenter.va.gov - if we could have a local calendar where we could put events and attach a flyer they could download or take a quick picture with their phone. Some place specific to the VC that maybe we could link to other areas. 

> We could use a good way to promote stuff and keep up with event counts. Data. How many people said they were coming versus how many people came.

> Would link to medical center social media page. I am more comfortable with public affairs maintaining social media rather than 300 ppl maintaining social media. 

* Do you use or keep mailing lists, listservs, social media?
> 

* Partnership organizations, e.g. universities, print media?
> 

* From a technology perspective, what could be improved to help you in your outreach?
> 

* What is the most important thing a vet should get out of visiting your VC website for 1st time?
> 

* Is there information that you currently communicate in brochures or other promo materials that you think should get reflected on the website?
> 

### Closing
* Any questions for us?
> “I love my job, so any questions, please feel free to ask. I am willing to share.”

LH - if you would share brochures, promo materials. That would be helpful. 
> Yes, I will. 

* Was there anything that I didn’t ask that you think that I should know?
> 

* Thank yous…
