# Vet Center Outreach Specialist Interview 

**Interview date:** August 26, 2020
<br></br>**Time:** 9am 

VC = Vet Center 

## Questions
[GENERATIVE QUESTIONING – 30 MIN]

**Warm up**
* How long have you been an outreach specialist at the VA?
> Started in Feb 2014. Started operating mobile VC. There was another outreach specialist here. That person retired. Last 4 yrs I have been outreach specialist. 

* What brought you to this line of work?
> Retired from Air Force. Got referred here to apply for job. Deployed to Iraq and Afghanistan. I feel at home working with combat vets.

* Have you worked as an outreach specialist in more than one district or region?
> Always at Escanaba (?). Have worked with other VCs in Wisconsin, lower Michigan. 

**Role**
* How would you describe your role at VA?
> To go out in the community and establish relationships with stakeholders and community. Get caught up in doing events. But the relationships you establish become friends, not just business, and they refer friends to you.

> Vets may be a little hesitant to seek behavioral health counseling. Relaxed atmosphere at VC. 

> You establish relationships, make sure VC name is in community. 
> 
> These ^ are the 2 main things (working with vets, establishing relationships). 

* What are your main duties and responsibilities?
> See ^

* If you had to break down these responsibilities into percentages, what might that look like?
> The 2 things above are equally important. Most of the stakeholders in community are vets themselves. So you establish relationships with stakeholders 1st in order to get them to refer vets. 
> 
> Spend maybe 50-50 on  working with vets versus establishing relationships.

* How about the role of the clinicians at your Vet Center, can you tell me what that role looks like?
> Once I meet with a vet and get them set up with appointment with clinician, then they sort of make the connection. What sets VC apart from VA: we have the flexibility to take it slow. We have clinicians. We have time. “We can just talk for a while.” It’s really important for the clinicians to get to know the vets 1st. Establish relationship. Maybe counsel family later. See vets for PTSD. Vet needs to get comfortable. Helps fam dynamic if we get to know family, too. 

> Maybe getting the vet into a group can help them connect with like-minded vets. When they get out, they are really missing that camaraderie. Upper peninsular Michigan is rural. It really helps them to get Into a group. Make sure we can offer them the full range of services. 

**Eligibility**
* Can you walk me through the process for determining eligibility for Vet Center services?
> Yes, there is process. In RCS and in most VCs, you have probably heard it a 100 tines: “combat vet.” That needs to be clarified. “It can mean 50 different things to 50 different people.”
> 
> We look at DD214, discharge papers, medal. Maybe someone served in Iraq and does not consider themself a combat veteran. But we do consider them one. 

> Other qualifying factors: MST. Only thing we need to determine eligibility from that: 
a) active duty and they say they have experienced MST, or
b) if they are a vet, then determine if they are a vet and if they experienced MST while serving in military, they they are eligible.

> 80-90% of the vets we see in this VC and the surrounding ones all fall into the term combat vet. The remaining 20% are MST. Then outliers are mortuary affairs. 

> Bereavement - 
RCS says we can work with family if vet was killed on active duty. There is a form.

> Missed something he said here… There was buzzing and his voice went in and out at times. Think he was referring to vets who are not eligible for VC services. 
We don’t turn away, do warm handoff to VAMC. 

* How does a Vet Center validate a client’s eligibility?
> See ^. DD214, medal, discharge papers.

* How does a potential client figure out their own eligibility? e.g., a non-married couple
> Some are easier than others. Vet was in combat operation, overseas. Afghanistan, Iraq, Vietnam. They pretty well know they are eligible. Sometimes see people who have experienced MST, and they think it needs to be documented. But it does not. 

> It’s really eye-opening when I stand up and give a presentation — I see people who think they not eligible. I tell people to let VC determine eligibility.

 * What questions do they ask you the most?
> “One of the things that gets sort of muddy is family members.” Varies from VC to VC. Maybe some VCs are willing to work with younger kids, like 7 yrs old.  This does not seem as standard as combat vets or MST. 

> Sometimes on event weekends, we try to make sure people have not experienced MST. 

> If you have an extraditionary _____ (could not understand him — maybe he meant a medal) and you served as part of combat, you are eligible.

 * Is there anything particularly difficult or confusing about this process?
> Related info ^ . 

* When a client comes into a Vet Center, how do you determine if someone is eligible? Honor system do they have to show identification?
> Related to “How does a Vet Center validate a client’s eligibility?” above ^ .

* Do different types of clients tend to need different services, e.g. a Veteran vs a spouse or child?
> Case by case basis. Some vets want to come in and don’t really want spouse involved. Some vets want a spouse to see a therapist. We offer spouse groups. Some want spouse to have full range of services. 

> “It all has to tie back into the vet’s readjustment. You can’t just offer counseling to a spouse if the vet doesn’t want the spouse to have it.” 
> 
> Sometimes vets who are initially closed or standoffish warm up with group activity. MST survivors are an example.

> Really, it’s case by case. People who are being seen under the umbrella of combat vet would be more likely to go into group thereby. 

> MST survivors are more likely to do individual therapy.

**Interacting with Clients**
* What are the different ways in which you interact with your clients? e.g. Phone, in person, one-on-one, in a group setting, in the community?
> Some outreach specialists like me have gone to peer support training. When you reach out, you let them know what the VC offers. Sometimes vets want to talk about general benefit issues. We can answer ?s and give referrals to services. 

> They might have ?s about property tax waivers. Even therapists will set up appointment for vet to talk to me about employment referral. 

> Outreach, just by nature of job and community interaction, we have.a lot of resources in community. And in the VC. 

 * Are there other ways you would see interacting with Veterans? (e.g., chatbot, email)
> Quick ?s by phone. Normally the vet comes into our office and talks. 

LH -  Other ways u want to interact?
> I’ve run groups to get vets outside doing different things. Want to do more of that. We had a frisbee golf group. Get vets out of the those, get moving.  Other outreach specialists have had gardening groups with vets in the VC.

> I can’t think of anything else… There are probably a lot of things I’d like to do that I’m not doing now. 

* Once a client starts using services, does the relationship between you and the client end or change?
> You’re exactly right. “I sort of take a little ownership of those vets.” I want to make sure they are getting taken care of. “I will still stay n touch just to kind of keep that connection going.” We pair vets and therapists as best we can. Sometimes they come in a few times before seeing a therapist. Sometimes they don’t want therapy. Sometimes they want to switch therapists. 

> “I make sure they’re getting taken care of and that they are comfortable with the services they are getting.” Don’t want them to get uncomfortable and to stop coming.

> Even the clinical groups, I try to sit in on them from time to time. Just so they know who I am. If a therapist is going on vacation, the therapist tells the vets so they know. “It just helps to stay connected with them.” 

LH - Groups seem like they can vary as to how they are categorized. Do you have to designate something as purely recreational or purely clinical? 
> If you have a certain time-limited group started and it’s recreational, you try to steer away from anything clinical going on. If you have a clinicial Group, sometimes they will try to mix a little recreation in. But most therapists will not mix clinical into recreation. 


**Clients**
* Can you describe the different types of clients that you work with?
>  Vietnam vet groups. Iraq and Afghanistan - generally distinct groups. They interact fine, but they are just going thru different life things with aging, etc. 

> “OIF” - Iraq and Afghanistan groups. Pretty standard for most VCs.

LH - How many clients before you start a group?
> Mostly pretty challenging. Try to let the vets… (buzzing). Can be as few vets as 2-3 when start. Try to limit to 10-12. If you get more, is not as good. Groups usually run 1 hour and a half. 

LH - in your VC, what does a client grouping look like? 
> We find that Vietnam vets are easier to get into a  group. Seems this is because they have more time. Most are retired. At 10-11am, I can have 10-12 vets.
 
> Iraq and Afghanistan groups - only have so much time. They have jobs 40+ hours week, kids, soccer practice. I just believe there is only so much time they can go.

 * If you had to break down the types into percentages that you work with, what might that look like?
> 60% Vietnam vets, rest are younger. (Initially he said 60-70%,;then he said 60%. )

* Where in the journey are your clients. e.g. Newly separated, families during bereavement, family In crisis mode
> See above ^ .

* If you had to breakdown these stages in the journey that your clients fall into, what might that look like?
> See above ^ re: life journey.

**Services**
* What services are used most frequently by your clients?
> Most used service is individual counseling, just to come in and talk, “Get things roff their chest.” “That is used a lot. “
> 
> Get lot of referrals from service officers filing claims for vets.  They come in for counseling and use this to substantiate their claim.

> You can have vets who just want to talk. 

> You can have vets who want to do cognitive therapy. BNBR (sp?) - therapy. 

> We try to once or 2x a year. Week long camp therapy. ____ retreat. (Could not und him). Very successful. “They’re pretty intense.” 

LH - mobile units? How deliver services?
> Especially the newer mobile units have 2 offices in them. You can use them to talk a therapist and go to rural area where you may not have services established. 
> 
> Try to get case load established in a location. “Once case load is established, the mobile VC is used to get a comm’y access point up and rolling.”

> We have a smaller mobile VC. Not really conducive to clinical counseling, certainly not for groups. We have been successful at getting county vet service officer to give us an office; this is better than truck. 

> We use the truck for a lot of events. “It’s an attention grabber.” Nat’l Gd Army training downstate. We will take our truck down there and soldiers will have access during their training.

* How about those used least frequently?
> 

* Are some services more automated vs needing to be more hands-on?
> 

* Does your Vet center offer recreational outings or other activities?
> 

* If so, how are are these offerings categorized? Do they fall under counseling or events or are they their own category?
> 

* How will Vets find out about these services?
> 

**Events**
* What are some examples of events or recreational activities that you’ve put on or promoted (pre and post COVID)?
> There are just so many examples of events. Any time you have a group of  vets together… Ice fishing, other things. They will try to be there. 

> Snow frost races. Sometimes vets will have ATV rides. Sometimes mobile vet center is there. 

> We try to pair up with vents others put on. 

> We try to do an annual Thanksgiving food basket giveaway. Mobile VC used for that. Go to communities that might use baskets. Work with county. 

LH - how promote?
> It’s pretty rural here. Radio station, newspaper, VA medical officer. Work with them to get news releases out. They will help us by posting stuff to FB page and website. 

> Work with public services officer. I have gone out to promote VCs, done presentations. Not a lot of private events. 
> 
> RCS can come up with various events, BBQs. “We try to make it as non of a clinical thing as possible.”

LH - how would a clinical event be promoted?
> Manual, email. They normally start promoting it within group. 

> If we could have when groups meet. Some meet every other Tues, some every other Wed.  Vets get confused. Only issue might be people randomly showing up. Need a qualifier - they have to be seeing a therapist first. 

> About a year ago, I started sending out quarterly newsletters. Then I added a group calendar. Make it easy for them, something for them to hold onto. Otherwise not so easy to to tell them every time we have group.

> We snail-mail to remind them of group. There are a few who have email. With Vietnam vets, a lot of them “___ anything to do with a computer.” (Could not understand him.)

> Manually mail with support assistant’s help. Have address list. 

> Send copy of our email to all vet service officers. Give them calendar, in case some vets they are talking to lost their calendar. Helps them with their networking. Announce new groups. Write-ups on new benefits thing that might be of interest. 

LH - No social media? 
> “No, bc it’s been sort of discouraged in the past by VCs setting up an actual Facebook account.” Typically run it through therapist at VAMC. Work with them on open house. Only for events open to all vets in community. 

> If big event open to community, then we would get the word out thru social media. Other than that, we don’t have a social media platform. lWe just have nat’l VC Facebook page. Does not seem feasible. 

LH- other partnership organizations you leverage? 
> Mainly just radio, local news. They capture the event we’re doing and they always take time to interview us about what the VC offers. 

* Who initiates the events?
> 

* Can you walk me through what it looks like to put on an event?
> 

* Are they Vet Center specific?
> 

* Are there recurring events that Vet Centers offer?
> 

**Tools**
* What tools, websites or resources do you use to plan and publicize outreach events?
> 

* How do these help you do your job?
> 

* Do you use or keep mailing lists, listservs, social media?
> 

* Partnership organizations, e.g. universities, print media?
> 

* From a technology perspective, what could be improved to help you in your outreach?
> “I think a website his going to help a lot.” 

> “I really like the idea of having a section of the website we can update and edit ourselves: calendar, bios, etc.”

> Most of our staff have served in Iraq or Afghanistan. “I think those bios would help a lot.” I think when vets come in to get behavioral health services, there is a lot of anxiety, If I have an appointment with Travis, and I can see what he looks like, read about him, I think it would really help with anxiety.”


### Closing
* Any questions for us?
> Are you all going to be gathering info from vets being seen by the VC?

LH - yes, your thoughts?
> Get a good mix some of older vets and younger ones — you should see what they feel like would be helpful to have on the website. “There may be stuff that we don’t know that we don’ t know.”

> MP - What other organizations in the community do you work with?

> State Vet Affairs Office - divided into regions. Have regional rep. Michigan VA Agency. Partner on various events. 

> Also thru state they have employment reps, they are doing job fairs. Therapist might refer. Partner with them pretty regularly. Nat’l Guard, military units. 

> Colleges - most have vet reps. 

> Those ^ are 3 pretty key partnerships. 

> And the VAMC is invaluable to partner with. Most vets know about them. They have been around forever. VCS only around since late 70s. Lot of vets don’t know about VCS - whether they are part of VA, hospital, outside.  

> MM - would you pls email newsletter? 
> Yes .COVID has changed our services.

* Was there anything that I didn’t ask that you think that I should know?
> 




