# Outreach Specialist Interview

**Interview date:** August 20, 2020 <br></br>
**Time:** 1:00pm

### Questions

[GENERATIVE QUESTIONING – 30 MIN]

**Warm up**
* How long have you been an outreach specialist at the VA?
> In 4 days, it will be 7 years. 

> He is in Springfield, MA. 

* What brought you to this line of work?
> Was active Army 8 yrs. Did couple deployments to Iraq. Really loved the military. After 4 yrs out, began college. ~6 yrs out got Bachelors in criminal justice. Thought about going back to military. Was staff sargeant. Loved different ideas, unique experiences. Thought about law enforcement. Thought about becoming DoD police offcer. Realized that was not right. 

> Was fortunate to find out about Vet Center. Am from Western MA. Heard about outreach opportunity from counselors. (At an event?) 

> I have taken what I learned in military and tried to grow that over time. I have 3 daughters: 6, 9, and 13. A lesson in patience. "I absolutely love what I do." 

> Got masters degree to be counselor during my time here. Don't have license. Did internship. "You just kind of like know where your limit is." I have been focusing on outreach for past couple yrs. Love vets, love working with them, love the clinical aspect of what we do. Love getting out in community. "I think that passion feeds what you do... You genuinely believe in what you are doing."

* Have you worked as an outreach specialist in more than one district or region?
> Been outreach specialist in Springfield the entire time. Unique thing is opportunities given to me, that I have sought, or given to me by district office. We have a lot of outreach specialists across country. I was asked to go to St. Louis to participate in helping define what we are and to leadership summit/training. Have been networking, finding out what happens in other areas of the US. 

**Background/ The Role**
* How would you describe your role at VA?
> Multi-faceted approach. Form my perspective, it's not jsut getting the word out about the VC program to service members, Vets, and families. Letting them know about our services, what we provide. Big piece of that that's missed is in our mission statement: Overall goal is to provide services, but also to provide appropriate referrals. This really broadens the scope for the outreach specialist. It's not just going to service members and families; it is also about establishing relationships with community stakeholders like VSOs. For example, we have a local donut shop, Donut Dip. They donate to us, make extra stuff so we can give to our vets. Creates a nicer environment. 

> Also community health, medical centers. Being able to estab rels in comm'ys. "One of my main goal sis networking." With our lack of visiblity online and with social media... I talk a lot. The apssion, dedication to svc and subppot is really needed. 

> ANother piece: being able to provde the team here add'l resources. The team here might now und how to help a Vet find resouirces. As an outrach spec'ish, help the team help a Vet find bene svcs. Connectingn ppl who can hlpe Vet get svcs. 

> "Multifaceted apaproach."

* What are your main duties and responsibilities?
> Xxx

* If you had to break down these responsibilities into percentages, what might that look like?
> Vets are IDed as svcs membs who left miliatry. Also servce active duty svc membs. 

> This will depedn on the area of the ctry you are in. Some VCs are near miliary bases.

> 10-15% of time with current svcs members - outreach. Maybe 20% We are struggling with a lot of that stuff. Curr we are r4unning into raodasmblsocks estab connex with milairy bases, leadership. 

> COIVID is a bit diff. Normally I spend about 1/2 my time in an ouotreach event. Going to loc bizs, colleges. Spend time engaging with comm'ys. Vets and fams or comm'y stakhehoders. 

> 25% of time in ofc outreach plannig, makg connex, reaching oiut to ppl. Helping wout with whatver odds and edns. Clinnical support for Afghanistand. Maybe helping ofc mgr answer fpohnes. 

> I acn't engage in comm'y now b/c of COVID. I am working on planning -- how do we do that? Social media. We developed newslettesr. We are dg things to help supplemnt the other things we are not doing now. 

* What does a typical week look like for you?
> Xxx

**Eligibility**
* Can you walk me through the process for determining eligibility for Vet Center services?
> At nat'l level, I brought up this as a concern, still needs to be addressed furhter: We are not jsut readjustmt counsleing, we are a referral. So if Vets are not elig, we can refer them. 

> It's really imp b/c if s/one looks at elig crit and doesn't feel they meet it, we don't wnat to put up roadcblaock. I can still help coonnect them with coomm'y.

> "Being that bbridte or that warm handofff is s/thing we bypass. I see it als the time." Vet thinks we can't help. Ned to focus on what they need. 

> On the website... Wehne we say "combat Veteran," they think it means in combtat, shoowting at ppl. But it could be a cook, support person away from family. "That cook might have a lot of reasjdustmt issues they are trying to work thru. Making them feel like the have a voice is exterm imp."

> VC program straetd with Vietnam Vets. Reconigzing they had readjustment issues. It startted as peer-to-peer vet support gopur. Then clinical treatment as an option. 1990s expanded elig for survs of militrary secual trausm. Contineuds to expand for providing med care for casualites of war. 

Drone crews is very, very new. Only since late '90s, 2000s. They need elig. We work with fam members, including bereavement. Have trained clinicians who hel with that. 

* How does a Vet Center validate a client’s eligibility?
> When init engg that Vet and finding if they are elig, I am not immed thinking, "Oh, are they eligible? I will get to that as I figure out what that svc memb is looking for."

> Elig for cinical svcs, elig for referrals. "We want to be that place taht provides that." (referrals)

> When talking to them, I go thru the criteria, I go thru carefully. Miliiarty sexual trauma. We offere trauma informed care. We offer these categs. Do you fit into one? We ask gently. "There's no rush. Take our time doing that." "Wee have Veit Vets who've been coming to our VC since the 1980s."

> When we do talk abt things on our website and talk about eligibility, "we need to talk about referrals, too."

* How does a potential client figure out their own eligibility? (e.g., a non-married couple)
> With us, we're heavily relied on to clarify that. When it comes to bradning, and our mktg maters, we need to convey that. "It's not just a nuclear family... it's whatever family is considered to you." We hae helped parents.

> We had to get away from "help without hassles" branding we had. Need to state our svcs without putting anyone down.

> "Elim barriers to care is extremeley imp." "Finding out what family means to them." Boyfriend, girlfied,, cheidern -- I just say that.

* What questions do they ask you the most?
> Xxx

* Is there anything particularly difficult or confusing about this process?
> Xxx

* When a client comes into a Vet Center, how do you determine if someone is eligible? Honor system do they have to show identification?
> Xxx

* Do different types of clients tend to need different services, e.g. a Veteran vs a spouse or child?
> Acorss the spectrum, we have spouses (more with Vietam Vets)... You mean utilize the family aspect of our svcs more than others?

MM - Who tends to initiate? Touch point?

> Ideal way we are gg to engage, the primary way, is that Vet or svc member. Important reason behind that is our recordkeeping. We use the DD214 to determine elig. We take svc membs' word for PTSD. Maj or svc membs we work with are combat vets or they worked in areas of hostigily. That is on their papework.

> We use the vet's SSN. Vet has to initiate. If for some reason courts get involved, the Vet is the "owner of that record." If Vet divorces, that is a factor. The Vet must be engaged in some capacity. Mentioned clinical staff. 

> Often svc membs don't want to reach out, and the spouse asks the VC for help. That's where we come in as the OR spec'ist. We don't cold call. We want that vet to engage. We have to find a way. That's why we go out in comm'y. Recruitment. Grabbing cup of coffee. Their 1st appt doesn't have to be with a clinician. 

> "We just want to get them into the VC to engage with svcs." "We have to figure out how to be innovative, how to nav that." Diff dep on area of country. Diff types of events. Maybe a hamburger with other Vets.  

**Interacting with Clients**
* What are the different ways in which you interact with your clients? e.g. Phone, in person, one-on-one, in a group setting, in the community?
> Xxx

* Does the way you do your job differ depending on the format?
> Xxx

* Are there other ways you would see interacting with Veterans? (e.g., chatbot, email)
> "We are struggling with the social media side. Being able to have a platform. Diong 2 virutal info sessions. Zoom. Pushing that out with a flyer. Vets can watch from home, don't have to talk. Can just watch and listen. "Having to go thru all these backroads... We get it done, but it's not ideal."

> Technology - People are scrolling thru, might see it. 

* Does a relationship between a client and outreach specialist evolve or change over time?
> Xxx

**Clients**
* Can you describe the different types of clients that you work with?
> 60% are Viet Vets. Demographic here in W MA. Breakdown of that: some are engaged in evid-based treatment, but more often than not, they don't tend to go towards the regimented trtment. They enaage with other Vets. 8-10 VV groups. A Persian Gulf gruop. Thikn he also said Afghanistan. 

> Also have a spouse group. Often it's the older VV wives. 

How do groups form? 

> Main approach is based on what clinicians do we have at a VC? Determine their interests. One of ours is a trained classical Guirtarist. Our group became "Guitars for Vets." 

> Over 90% of the Vets who walk into our VC, we have a good email adress for them. 

> Vietnam Vets - not as many have email.

> Newsletters, moving bulleting board. Kayaking, equine therady, evid baed grp, anger mmgtm, Substnace abuse. 

> Coloring group now with 1 of our interns. Adult coloring books. 

> Once we get them plugged in, we let them know what is 

> Evidence-based: VA has blocks of what this emans: EMDR, ACT (Acceptane and Conmmtiment Therapy), PTSD, Cognitive Proc Therapy. Prolongeed expposrue is 12 (?) weeks, very regimnted. Deemed evidence-based offically. 

Large VV poopul in W MA... What Others? 
> VV, Persian Gulf, GWAT are biggest groups. 

> We have gone out of our way to find underserved populations. Women. There is not a large group of Women Vets being served by VA. Oiurs is one of the biggest. 

> GWAT - Glob war on Terror - this is agood sized popul. 

> Miliary sexual trauam. 

> Courage group. VA does one, too. 

> Drone crews adn emergent med care are small groups. Mortuary affiars. 

> Vets with dual roles. 

> Persian Gulf group very small. 

> Mabye 1-2 Korean War vets. Maybe a couple WWII vets. 

* If you had to break down the types into percentages that you work with, what might that look like?
> Xxx

* Where in the journey are your clients? (e.g. newly separated, families during bereavement, family In crisis mode)
> Xxx

* If you had to breakdown these stages in the journey that your clients fall into, what might that look like?
> Xxx

**Services**
* What services do you personally support most frequently?
> "That's tough. Support as in the most valuable svc we wd offer?"

> "Indiv counseling. Without a doubt, that's going to be the most used svc we have."

> Least used svc: Emplyment referral. We dno't have an emplyment rep. We have a voc rehab rep. We let her ustilzie our space, which is great. 

> I refer ppl to emplyemnt agencies or groups that help with emplyemmnt. 

> Bereavment. That is not necessarily combat related. It's more often suicide. Struggle with this b/c our elig criteroa say we give svc if it's while the vet is serving. For vets not active, when fam needs support: "To me, it's an absolute no briiner that that vet is eligible." We run it up to mgmt. Wnat to provide svc. 

> We do humanitarian visits, but we do not promote that. If comm'y knew, we wd be very busy, our clinician wd be booked, we wd have to hire more. Up to 5 humanintarina visits for that vet or svc memb, and during that time we hope to provide them with a referral. 

> Wd be a vet not necess meet elig crit, they are struggling in a home. they are not in a crises. "We are not crisis resonse. It' took me a long time to und that." My old dir told me that. 

We have walk in hours, too. Humanit svcs -- you will not get into evid absed treatments, you are asssessing risk, tyry8ing to calm the vet and pass them on to approp svc. Usually does not go too deep. It's tricky. I leave it up to the clinicans to decide that. 

* What services do you personally support least frequently?
> Xxx

* Are some services more automated vs needing to be more hands-on?
> Xxx

* What’s are some challenging aspects of supporting these services?
> Xxx

* How will Vets find out about these services?
> Xxx

**Events**
* What are some examples of events or recreational activities that you’ve put on or promoted (pre and post COVID)?
> Xxx

* Who initiates the events?
> Xxx

* Can you walk me through what it looks like to put on an event?
> Xxx

* Are they Vet Center specific?
> Xxx

* Are there recurring events that Vet Centers offer?
> Xxx

**Tools**
* What tools, websites or resources do you use to plan and publicize outreach events?
> Xxx

* How do these help you do your job?
> Xxx

* Do you use or keep mailing lists, listservs, social media?
> Xxx

* Partnership organizations, e.g. universities, print media?
> Xxx

* From a technology perspective, what could be improved to help you in your outreach?
> Xxx

### Closing
* Any questions for us?
> I think I am really on the learning curve. I und overall what our prog has to offer. When it comes to web design, I am interested in how it will all work out. 

* Was there anything that I didn’t ask that you think that I should know?
> Xxx

*If time permits… but most likely a separate session*

### Vet Center Page Critique
[CRITIQUE OF CURRENT DETAIL PAGE – 15 MIN]

[Current Vet Center page example](https://www.va.gov/find-locations/facility/vc_0342V) 

This is what a Vet Center page looks like today, in an ideal world, what would the page look like if it was first exposure that a Veteran or service member had to your Vet Center, maybe after they did a google search.

* What would be the most important thing(s) that they should be able to learn or understand.
> Xxx

* What could be improved about [this] website to improve your needs as an outreach specialist?
> Xxx

* Thinking of all those first conversations with new and potential clients, what would they change?
> Xxx

[SWITCH TO EVENT PAGE]

[Event page example](https://www.va.gov/outreach-and-events/events/sierra-vista-arizona-resource-fair/) 

* What about a page like this? How does a page like this fit into your workflow?
> Xxx

