Conversation Guide: VSA Caregiver, Usability research of shortened form based on disability rating for the 10-10EZ, September 2021

*Start recording to the Cloud.*

* I have started recording. I'd like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record my screen as we talk today?" Yes

Ok. Now we're really ready to begin!

Warm-up Questions - 5 minutes

For Veterans:

* Tell me a little about yourself:

* How many years has it been since you left the service?

* Do you currently have health care benefits through the VA or through another provider? I have been getting VA healthcare since 2005.

* Tell me a little bit about how you chose this health care option?

* Have you ever filled out the VA Health Care application either partially or fully? Paper after my second deployment. Part of the process coming back.

Health Care application introduction page - 5 minutes

* Please read the entire page and let me know if any questions come to mind:

* After participant reads and initial questions are noted: strange to see mental health mentioned first.

* Why: confusing. I would probably go here for medical first

    * What do you think of the listed requirements?

    * Is there anything that you would not have on-hand or would need to prepare before starting this application?  Yes. But I would hope they would already have military insurance info.

    * Did that happen when you got out: Yes. Because my insurance was tied into my ID card. I didn't have a separate card.

    * Do you have any additional thoughts or questions? Then seeing that think I might have gone to the wrong place

    * What next: I'm not sure why household income is mentioned here. It says optional, but I don't know why you would need it for VA healthcare. I guess because I don't think household income would have anything to do with qualifying for VA healthcare.

    * Want something to tell you why it’s here: That might be helpful..

    * *Looking at dropdown for eligibility.* I am curious to know after seeing the income stuff. Curious to click on discharge upgrade but qualify without so probably wouldn't. Would probably go ahead and click the other 2 dropdowns.

    * First time didn’t click, why the second time: First time viewing page as overview.

    * Obvious clickable: Yes

 

Variation 1: Applying to health care benefits, 50% or higher disability rating is known at sign in (~half of participants, participant should have a disability rating of 50% or higher) - 15 minutes

Let's pretend that you went through the sign in process and are taken to here (authenticated Intro page), from here please continue with the application.

* Participant will next be shown the short form notification

    * Can you tell me a little about your thoughts as you read this page?  I would probably see what I could get through without signing in. Back to basically the same info. Redundant. I've already seen this.

* Is there anything that stands out to you on this page?

* Participant will next navigate to the first page of the form "Veteran information"

    * Mostly let the participant fill out the form:

    * Make special note of how participant interacts with the green alert that talks about the short form

    * Prompt participant to interact with alert on the third or fourth page of the form if they haven't already:

Variation 2: Applying to health care benefits, 50% or higher disability rating is known at self-report, VA compensation question (~half of participants, participant should have a disability rating of 50% or higher) - 15 minutes

Go ahead and continue as if you were applying for health care. Note if participant would sign in or not.

Let's pretend that you went through the sign in process and are taken to here (authenticated Intro page), from here please continue with the application.

Thoughts: This was a question for the study. I answered 90, but I'm actually P&T

* Participant will next navigate to the first page of the form "Veteran information"

    * Mostly let the participant fill out the form: tab didn't work. Definitely used to tab feature.

    * Green box at the top, did you notice it and what does it mean: Yes. I liked that it was checked. After several pages, I would click the dropdown because I think it's not so short after all. So I guess when I signed in it would have pulled my disability rating.

    * Thoughts or questions on that: But I wonder if I had been able to continue without signing in that the shortened app wouldn't be available. I wonder what other info it "pulled." I would have thought birthdate, address, etc. would have been seen when I signed in.

    * Filled out va forms where it was able to pull information:  If I sign in, I think all the basic info is already there.

    * Questions or thoughts: Coming off a deployment and qualifying for healthcare with the VA, this would be automatic. But I guess it could also be former military person years later this would make more sense.

    * If this were you how would you answer it: Curious if no makes a difference. On processing app.

    * Guess how it would affect the application process: Coming as I did through processing post-deployment; I would answer yes. But I think it would be harder if the answer was no because you would ask more questions. Examples: Have I ever had insurance? When was the last time? What insurance? etc. But coming off active duty or deployment, I would assume you already had that info.

    * This page would be prefilled: Yes because VA would have military info. I remember everything just transferring over.

    * Group code: This was always just social. wouldn't have any id what to put for group, there was no group #

For the purpose of this research, imagine that you actually do not have a disability rating of 50% or higher, and you reached this page by accident.

What would you do next?

Ask participant to continue filling out the form

* Prompt participant to interact with alert on form if they haven't already:

Post task questions - 5 minutes

Wonderful! I have a few questions about what you just saw in the prototype.

Overall

* What did you think of the overall experience? It seemed more detailed than I would expect for a "shortened app" But I know you said demo. So hopefully active it would be easier.

* What would have made it easier: Like I said, when I signed in, basic info would transfer. Maybe just a "this is the info we have, please check if correct"

* Tell me about this experience in your own words, as if I was another Veteran interested in applying for health care: It was still pretty straightforward and simple. Now I want to know what happens next.

* Tell me more: What happens next? I review and submit and then what? How long do I need to wait? Yes. How should I expect to be contacted?

* Expectation from how they would contact you: Email. But it could also be just continuing to check online for status. But I want a basic timeframe. Maybe I should expect an email or maybe I just have to keep checking online.

* Helpful to know which way to expect: Yes. And a timeframe. You should hear something in . . .

* After you submit how long it takes or the first page: I mean after I submit.

* Anything to prepare or lookout for if telling another veteran: Have insurance & DD214 forms on hand for other veteran.

* Any other thoughts or questions for me before we conclude? I like the need help that stays at the bottom, always available.

* Used these numbers before: Never heard of the MyVA411. Definitely used VSO & regular number, but I wouldn't have thought about VSO. Good it was mentioned. Looks good.

* Thank you and Closing

Well we really appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us today. Your feedback is so helpful to us as we continue to improve our products and services for Veterans and service members.

Thank you so much again and enjoy the rest of your day!

 

