Conversation Guide: VSA Caregiver, Usability research of shortened form based on disability rating for the 10-10EZ, September 2021

*Start recording to the Cloud.*

* I have started recording. I'd like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record my screen and audio as we talk today?" yes

Ok. Now we're really ready to begin!

Warm-up Questions - 5 minutes

For Veterans:

* Tell me a little about yourself

* How many years has it been since you left the service?

* Do you currently have health care benefits through the VA or through another provider? Yes, I am seen by the va and then Tricare. Theres a new initiative for dual enrollees.

* Tell me a little bit about how you chose this health care option? My primary care provider is through the va and they utilize what is within va and then Tricare. They make the referral or types of care required

* Va care: I guess applied in 2014 for disability. At that point it was approved for care with the va. I was enrolled then in 2-14. Then the new process, has just been about a year and that process was simple. It was call this number and give them the name and you are enrolled.

* Over phone: yes

* application: it was primary on paper, fill out the document then the process you sit down with other doctors and a lot of wo0rk that went on behind the screen from the va to be fully enrolled and the disability claim adjudicated.

* timeline: I don’t remember the number of months but it was less than a year, like 6-8 months.

Health Care application introduction page - 5 minutes

* Please read the entire page and let me know if any questions come to mind: Part of what I would do would depend on the time I have. I wouldn’t click on that button, I would follow the steps, click on the eligibility requirements, then gather information (reading page), then after that I would start the application. Actually the start application looks misleading to be honest because it’s not a start application. It is another section. It really is what happens after I apply button. Then step 4 is sign in and start application. I am just reading though the directions quickly because it says sign in to start and start without signing in. it answers the question why. Information will already be entered so I would sign in for security of it.

 

* After participant reads and initial questions are noted:

    * What do you think of the listed requirements?

    * Expectation of time: so I would in a perfect world, less then 30 minutes and be done. Certainly it would save time to check the eligibility piece to make sure I am eligible without going to the bottom to fill it out and waste time.

    * Requirements work as expected: so I almost would group those better. I assume I can enroll if all of these statements are true then I would break it up and see this as a separate section. A question in my mind is to make it clear it is a separate section. All of these must be true then must meet one of these requirements. There should be an and between these sections.

    * Concern there: making sure the people see the statements. Those are two separate things and making is super clear that they are separate. You have to have all of these and at least one of these service requirements.

Variation 1: Applying to health care benefits, 50% or higher disability rating is known at sign in (~half of participants, participant should have a disability rating of 50% or higher) - 15 minutes

Let's pretend that you went through the sign in process and are taken to here (authenticated Intro page), from here please continue with the application.

* Participant will next be shown the short form notification

    * Can you tell me a little about your thoughts as you read this page? I would read through the top line there; I am not sure as a consumer that I care if it va care 1010ez. I am not sure that it adds value. When I click on start it will take me to that form. This statement makes sense for healthcare. Instead of apply online now, apply but clicking green button below. I see the green button but I try to streamline. Then I have the same information here. Is that in case I missed it on the prior page

    * Thoughts: it seems like I am being pounded on the head with eh same information. To me I got it. its redundant to have it all over again. You told me the requirements and what to do so I would click to start.

    * Thinking the next page would be the application: yes. If there would be a second button or not, I don’t know if I had an expectation for that but now that I think of it, if this information would be on the previous page, well it is right there. It would be good to go directly there to sign into the no kidding form.

    * What do you expect to happen next?

    * Do you have any questions?

    * Is there anything that stands out to you on this page? Good, bad, indifferent

Alright, let's continue

* Participant will next navigate to the first page of the form "Veteran information"

    * Mostly let the participant fill out the form: the form infomration isnt useful to me. now am I applying for healthcare or just eligibility.

    * Thoughts and difference: I guess is there a possibility of filling this out and go to the percentage of not eleiable people. I guess healthcare because I checked the eligibility. 

    * What happened there: I tried to tab. Normally it will just go to the next block. When I tabbed it went back to the previous block.

    * If I need extra help I can call for assistance. Am I supposed to know what a location service organization is? From my perspective, in OH we have then in every county that could help but someone else could read that as DVA, VFW, etc. that may not know what I am talking about when I call them.  These buttons don’t work I would assume you need dashes, my states missing. TN is spelled wrong. it says birth sex, I don’t really care about having 50 million choices for sex but it is clear that it is birth sex so that makes it clear.

    * If it did have other choices, feelings: It always makes me wonder when I see them, what’s the point. Why does this matter. That’s what it makes me wonder. I think it could be misleading to list a lot of choices. Maybe I am taking it to far but it makes me wonder if the va is going to help me. say I am transgender; will they help me with that. If the va is interested in that, it could mean they will assist me with that. Me personally I don’t know if that is possible but that could lead them down the path of thinking they will assist either mental health which makes sense but the physical side is the path I walk down in my brain.

    * Helpful to explain the question: yes.

    * Ethnicity: that’s not typical to have more than one choice. Normally there is a selection for multiple races instead of selecting them. I guess this is a more direct way of getting the demographics. This is probably a better way because multiracial could be a lot of things.

    * Mailing: this is important because this is how I get updated. I guess the mailing address could be different for some people. I am trying to think why someone may have a different home and mailing address. I guess if you have a p.o box.

    * Va benefits: that would be. I guess the first 2 are self-explanatory. Va pension, there may need to be more of an explanation. I think va pension is if I was a va employee and retired from the va is what that would mean. Then I wonder, I cant click on 3 things. What if I am disabled and get a va pension or confused what va pension is.

    * Va pension not clear: correct. You could get a pension and have a rating. I think that requires further clarity.

    * Last page: it looks like if I am getting 50 percent or higher theres a shorter application which is cool. That’s self-explanatory.

    * Expectation: I think it is less then 30  minutes, maybe 15. I don’t know that’s a guess. If I have questions then theres the answer and the va will confirm it if I am not sure. I don’t know how I wouldn’t be sure but I guess theres a possibility.

    * Make special note of how participant interacts with the green alert that talks about the short form: I can look here if I was wondering. I wouldn’t normally click that I would just be happy to filling out a shorter explanation.

    * Health insurance is straightforward.

    * Typical have: I would need to grab it from my wallet unless it was something it told me to gather, which it is so it would be n3ext to me. then I’m done. Way less than 15 minutes

    * Review: I don’t know if I would review this, I might. I tried to click on it. the question is why is this here, do you want me to review. If you want me to review, it should have a statement, review to ensure accuracy. It would make me click it and correct it if needed.

    * Privacy policy that is required, I guess it’s a legal thing so I have to click it

    * Expectations of plus icon: on previous steps it will list the application information. For this on it wouldn’t be a PDF it would be the information I filled out so I can go back right there to fix it and save it and then go to the next category to do the same thing. Then submit it. it doesn’t look like I can but that’s what I would do

    * Expectations: I am on this page, I signed in, then up here it says sign in. then the same comment for 1010ez. After clicking submit I would expect a confirmation and reminder for how long it takes to be reviewed and I can sign in to check the status at any time. I have a bar below, its 4 sections, it would be cool if it showed me where I am. Like the bar that shows what’s completed. That’s it on that page.

    * How to be contacted: through email. That’s a good point, maybe that should be part of the message, thanks for the application you should hear through email so please check regularly and to check the status.

Post task questions - 5 minutes

Wonderful! I have a few questions about what you just saw in the prototype.

Overall

* What did you think of the overall experience? It was really simple which is good. Easy to follow, directions overall was good other than what I mentioned. I think overall it was a good experience.

* Tell me about this experience in your own words, as if I was another Veteran interested in applying for health care: I would say go to this site it is super simple, it takes 10-15 minutes at the most. That’s what I would tell them. In the back of my mind, I guess there would be other information they need like medical records but they really don’t for the application.

* Will everyone have the short experience: no. so based on my understanding me at one point I selected myself for the short form. I imagine if I click this instead it would put me on the long form option. I don’t know how long it is but I would still encourage them to do it and be in the system if they served.

* Any other thoughts or questions for me before we conclude? I really don’t. this is a simple process and that is what I would tell people. Totally worth the time, and it’s just being at the computer, that’s it. it’s not like you have to going on a fishing trip to finish the form.

Thank you and Closing

Well we really appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us today. Your feedback is so helpful to us as we continue to improve our products and services for Veterans and service members.

Thank you so much again and enjoy the rest of your day!

 

**Conversation Guide: VSA Caregiver, Usability research of shortened form based on disability rating for the 10-10EZ, September 2021**

*Start recording to the Cloud.*

* **I have started recording. I'd like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record my screen and audio as we talk today?" It is fine.**

Ok. Now we're really ready to begin!

**Warm-up Questions - 5 minutes**

**For Veterans:**

* Do you currently have health care benefits through the VA or through another provider? I sue some va healthcare mostly for my hearing aids, I have Tricare for life so for some healthcare I go to the naval hospital which is a bit closer. I do both between the naval hospital and va.

* Have you ever filled out the VA Health Care application either partially or fully? It has been 15 years now.

* What made you apply: I retired from the military and then became a contractor. I went back and forth between Iraq and Afghanistan. It started to9 effect my health care, my hearing has decreased a bit, issues after vitamin as well I was still dealing with.  I put an application in, approved at 0 percent within a year of retiring then as things worsened I applied again for an upgrade.

**Health Care application introduction page - 5 minutes**

* Please read the entire page and let me know if any questions come to mind: as I initially applied for healthcare. I think the first thing would be making sure I had my own health records that documented my time in the Marine Corps. Then go through the record to identify issues, get service records, OQR because it documents where I was and the experiences like Vietnam and other places in the world. Between those two then I would go to the site to download the application forms. Then I would honestly start putting together the package I would then submit to the va. I would list health issues, because I was advised to do so earlier, those pages and add them as enclosures so whoever was rating then they would say hearing loss, add enclosure one, combat and hearing test that showed the decrease during service. Knee surgery when 18 at the academy, then records to follow. Then I would take it down to the main medical center or first call then mail or take it down because it is when you indicate you submitting the package.  We sue to put together the packages with enclosures so it is simple for them to read, and then the fact finding investigation is easier. My youngest boy that is 45, still plays rugby. One of his teammates were with the va, as a rater it helped if they needed need to go through the records.

* Print form: yes.

* If it could be done online: it would I think I would still need to go through my health records and service records then scan and upload them. I know sometimes I get letters back stating done submit the records, I honestly ignore those because I try to make it easy for the rater and va.

* After participant reads and initial questions are noted: I think I would go straight to the enrollment page to open the form and start filling it out. If it is a pdf which I assume it would be, I assume you could fill it out and save it. I don’t think I would have any issues

* Where would the pdf be: At the enrollment application.

* Want to click right there: yes I would expect it right under apply for va health care

* Where next: where it says start the application, sign in to start application.

    * What do you think of the listed requirements?

    * Is there anything that you would not have on-hand or would need to prepare before starting this application?

    * Do you have any additional thoughts or questions?

**Variation 1: Applying to health care benefits, 50% or higher disability rating is known at sign in (~half of participants, participant should have a disability rating of 50% or higher) - 15 minutes**

Let's pretend that you went through the sign in process and are taken to here (authenticated Intro page), from here please continue with the application.

* Participant will next be shown the short form notification

    * Can you tell me a little about your thoughts as you read this page?

    * What do you expect to happen next?

    * Do you have any questions?

    * Is there anything that stands out to you on this page? Good, bad, indifferent

Alright, let's continue

* Participant will next navigate to the first page of the form "Veteran information"

    * Mostly let the participant fill out the form: pretty self-explanatory so far.

    * What happened: yeah I tried to click the arrow, I needed to put the arrow right below to get it to work.

    * Veteran information: at the bottom it said if I had issues there was a number to call for help. That was helpful. So far just self-explanatory. I helped my son fill out an application for va as well. The mailing address and home address. He was in the process of moving so we put my home address. They have been really great at sending infomration to me.

    * Experience from mail communication: yeah they mail the letters. It has been all by mail. He was moving from AZ to WA. It’s a lot cooler there.

    * Questions or thoughts here: nope.

    * Previous page questions: no it was just confirming.

    * Insurance: I am on Medicare now at this age.

    * Insurance: I don’t know if that would actually, where it has policy number I assume they want my Medicare number which I don’t know off hand.

    * Hard to find: not at all, I would ju8st get my wallet. I think it was initially my SSN with a -T. they may have gone to the new id numbers; I have the card in my wallet so its easy to just pick it up. If I were on a private insurance, I think the codes would be easy but on Medicare I think group code and number may be the same. I would be a little confused. I think I would have just put down my Medicare number and my Tricare id number for the second one. Then if they have questions they would contact me.

Review page: I think I would just review the application. It would go over the information I put in I assume. I did try to click on it but it didn’t open for me. I think it is an opportunity to review before clicking submit and accepting the privacy policy.

Expect next: by submitting the application, when it says va healthcare, I am already at a rating so I can go to any va healthcare facility and be seen for any issues I am having. I am not sure why I am submitting it. I don’t think I am submitting an application for disability it is for healthcare through the va.

Why unclear: because I think I already have va healthcare. Access to va health care facility, what this application does is unclear. I don’t know if it is giving access to a different facility or if this is just the site where I can put in infomration about things I have had. Is this just a website where I can say I have been vaccinated. If this was an initial application as before, this is not to submit the disability application but an application to be able to access va healthcare facilities.

Your guess: I thought it was for gain access to va healthcare. To visit a va facility.

Something that made you feel differently: I initially thought we were talking about a disability application I thought it would be to upgrade or an initial disability rating. Then when we get here there wasn’t a place where we listed the disability. That’s why I think it wasn’t for compensation but for healthcare facility.  

**Post task questions - 5 minutes**

Wonderful! I have a few questions about what you just saw in the prototype.

**Overall**

* What did you think of the overall experience? I thought the application was simple to submit. Again I assume where it says review the links just aren’t active but once they were I would be able to go over the form I filled out. I did not click submit application but would expect after submitting it would send an email to my email I listed with confirmation. Then at some point it would be accepted. Then a third email once approved. Status updated through email. That is what I would expect.

* Was there anything that stood out to you? No I thought it was simple and a positive experience. I have had nothing but positive experiences with the va. They have always been helpful and easy to work with. When I first got my hearing test and hearing aids I talked to the audiologist and her comment that theres more laid back.

* Tell me about this experience in your own words, as if I was another Veteran interested in applying for health care: I would say it was self-explanatory. Just follow the pages that come up, fill in the information, if you have questions theres numbers at the bottom where you can contact organizations for additional information then submit and wait for updates.

* Any other thoughts or questions for me before we conclude? Do I get a grade on this.

* Online vs pdf, what would you choose: I would prefer this process over the pdf option.

* like what we just did: yes but I would like to be able to review and save the form within my computer. I don’t know if it will provide that option but I do save all of that infomration in a file so I can have when it was filed and the information.

**Thank you and Closing**

Well we really appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us today. Your feedback is so helpful to us as we continue to improve our products and services for Veterans and service members.

Thank you so much again and enjoy the rest of your day!

 

