**Conversation Guide: VSA Caregiver, Usability research of shortened form based on disability rating for the 10-10EZ, September 2021**

*Start recording to the Cloud.*

* **I have started recording. I'd like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record my screen and audio as we talk today?" Yes.**

Ok. Now we're really ready to begin!

**Warm-up Questions - 5 minutes**

**For Veterans:**

* Do you currently have health care benefits through the VA or through another provider? I get all of my healthcare through the VA.

* How long: Exclusively since 2020, prior to that I only received mental health through the va and yearly checkups.

* Have you ever filled out the VA Health Care application either partially or fully? I had to go to the va, I was a reservist so I was only eligible after a deployments. I had to hand them my dd214 and fill out paperwork. Then they determined if I was elgi9able. At the time you had shared costs so I wasn’t getting disability at the time. Then I received my vas card in the mail. It was a group of us and it took about an hour. It was before Nona opened so it was at lake Baldwin.

* How long before you got the card: maybe a month or two

* Expectable time: it seemed very long at the time, it was due to the surge of troops in Afghanistan and it was when we were headed back so there was a large amount of veterans being processed at the va. If you are a reservist or national guard you were eligible for 5 years from the return of deployment. There were a lot of us.

**Health Care application introduction page - 5 minutes**

* Please read the entire page and let me know if any questions come to mind: this is va.gov so because I get my healthcare through the va and I am 100 percent. I frequently have to use this page for infomration. I have seen it before. First thing I would do is gather the information and make sure I have everything then start the application. I would click sign in in to start the application.

* After participant reads and initial questions are noted:

    * What do you think of the listed requirements?

    * Is there anything that you would not have on-hand or would need to prepare before starting this application? The household income, I have a spouse so it would take some digging to get our taxes from last year. Then the deductible expenses I am not sure what that would mean. Obviously theres healthcare and education. Then I would click on why does the va need this infomration. So if I am just applying for healthcare through the va I wouldn’t think I would have a disability rating yet.

    * Process you went through, healthcare then disability: I applied for the healthcare initially because I didn’t have insurance at the employment I was at and I have having some physical and mental problems. I did not apply for disability for another two years. I thought it was for those that were more disabled then me. I thought it was for those that lost a leg or arm. People that dealt with more than I did until it was 2014 and at that point the mental health issues just became too much and I knew that it wasn’t just for people that were more disabled then me

    * How did you find out it didn’t have to be worse and you could get it: I just took a chance I want to say. I was also active reserve so I had people in my unit that were talking about it, I was just like you didn’t even deploy you were on pre-deployment orders. Nothing actually going to deployment. Then I discharged form the reserves and I was like okay let me give it a shot. At least if anything more happened the injuries I did have would be covered so I applied. It was approved at 30 percent then after 6 years it went up.

    * Do you have any additional thoughts or questions? I would read though the information to make sure I have everything then click start the health care application.

**Variation 1: Applying to health care benefits, 50% or higher disability rating is known at sign in (~half of participants, participant should have a disability rating of 50% or higher) - 15 minutes**

Let's pretend that you went through the sign in process and are taken to here (authenticated Intro page), from here please continue with the application.

* Participant will next be shown the short form notification

    * Can you tell me a little about your thoughts as you read this page? This would not have applied to me at the time because I did not have a disability so I would have had to fill out a longer application but I would click continue.

    * What do you expect to happen next? That they would already have a lot of the financial information because of the rating I do have it is unemployability. I am rated at 80 but paid at 100 so they would have my financial information because I cant work over a certain number of hours a year or I lose the 100 percetn rating.

* Participant will next navigate to the first page of the form "Veteran information"

    * Mostly let the participant fill out the form:  obviously my birth sex because at the time the military didn’t allow others. Okay so when I fill out an application I use the tab key a lot but it is skipping through information its not going directly to the next.  Reading over te insurance it is required, selected no.

    * Review: it just seems repetitive. If I am filling out a short application then why am I inputting so much. It has my infomration then va benefits which I did not see then insurance information. It just seems like a lot of information that they should already know but obviously they didn’t have this when I applied. I would accept the privacy policy; I don’t read those. Then submit.

    * Prompt participant to interact with alert on the third or fourth page of the form if they haven't already:  It has stuck out but it seems like this is all of the information that was on the original application, it is frustrating because it is everything I initially had to fill out for healthcare.

    * Expect next: because it is a computer application, I would except a congratulations you qualify. Or because you need to put in the financials you should be like here’s the amount you’ll need to pay. I would expect a break down of my costs. Its all computerized so why wouldn’t it be complete. Why do you need to come back and check the status. it should just be insistent.

    * How you contact you: why phone

    * Preferred method: yes for things like this. I would not expect a text message but email I would probably not answer an email for the fact that I would think it was a scam. The va doesn’t email unless it’s to tell you, you have an appointment. then obvious mail but a phone call is quicker. Like if theres a flag on the application it should ring it to someone’s attention and there needs to be further contact. If phone calls don’t work then mail.

    * ** **

    * **Post task questions - 5 minutes**

Wonderful! I have a few questions about what you just saw in the prototype.

**Overall**

* What did you think of the overall experience?

* Was there anything that stood out to you?  No, its typical va webpages. I like that it has the vso infomration, when I was applying this wasn’t available and they didn’t speak about the vso. So I didn’t know what a vso was until 2017 I wanna say. When I initially applied I applied on my own without help. I feel like the va kind of, even though they put the information there, it is kind of confusing as to how to find one. The fact they are actually at the va I did not know that. That would have been much more helpful when applying. I feel like I would have gotten ratings for my physical limitations a lot sooner. Questions for va healthcare is pretty straight forward, then this down here is the typical web page. That really is the only thing that stands out.

* Tell me about this experience in your own words, as if I was another Veteran interested in applying for health care: I would say don’t do it. not because of the application, just don’t do it. being honest, va healthcare is crap. If it was the last resort like it is for me without any other insurance. Fill it out, do what you have to do then get out of the va system. I would say make sure you have the infomration together, then because of the information needed I would provide infomration on how to get the dd214 if you don’t have it and other than that just do it if you absoutely have to.

* What did you think of this "short form" experience? I know this is a test but it said it would prefill my information so I would have expected it to prefill correctly. With hat being said if it prefilled the information it would have my maiden name. Would I be able to change that in the application. The va still doesn’t have my information correct across the board. Its my maiden name in some areas.

* Do you think you could: I would want to be able to change it within the application so it is correct and if I was approved and going in for an appointment I would want my information correct and not have to say no this is my name and here’s my marriage license. It is frustrating providing the information and they don’t talk to each other.

* Clarification: be contacted once to provide the information and then it changes across the board. It’s a computer system it should update everywhere instead of just one place.

* Didn’t ask for information, why: it said I was completing the short form so I assume it ahs my income and deductible information because I am already disabled and receiving unemployability and is provided my SS each year. No income from me but only from my spouse which is easy to gather.

* Any other thoughts or questions for me before we conclude? No but I hope this works. Just because I had to take time off work to go to the va to do the process to apply. That was only the process, as I recall the information you sit through the presentation and I feel like that it is a waste. That infomration is provided by a va rep when you demobilize through whichever base you go through and they tell you have to do it. that funding could be butter spent with better healthcare and programs for vets. I live in Orlando so there’s a huge homeless population. Maybe an outreach program to get them off the street and provide a safe environment besides a street corner. It could redirect funding to other areas to better assist veterans.

* If this form is available can do online and funding elsewhere: Yes and outreach programs for those struggling they can take care of the applications at tat time if they are out in the community instead of sitting in an office to provide all of the information. They could be providing assistance to the veterans that are in need.

**Thank you and Closing**

Well we really appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us today. Your feedback is so helpful to us as we continue to improve our products and services for Veterans and service members.

Thank you so much again and enjoy the rest of your day!

 

