**Conversation Guide: VSA Caregiver, Usability research of shortened form based on disability rating for the 10-10EZ, September 2021**

*Start recording to the Cloud.*

* **I have started recording. I'd like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record my screen and audio as we talk today?" **Yes it is okay. I understand that you are recording the screen and audio.

Ok. Now we're really ready to begin!

**Warm-up Questions - 5 minutes**

**For Veterans:**

* Tell me a little about yourself

* How many years has it been since you left the service?

* Do you currently have health care benefits through the VA or through another provider? Yes I do. I have the va and Medicare.

* When did you start using va: I think it was at the end of 2014, intake was January 2015. 

* Tell me a little bit about how you chose this health care option? I got a medical retirement from the Army. So this was all applied for as I was getting out.

* Have you ever filled out the VA Health Care application either partially or fully? I don’t really remember the details now.

* Va healthcare: its been good, theres been very good provides but there has been some frustrating interactions. It is disappointment sometimes but we work with it.

**Health Care application introduction page - 5 minutes**

* Please read the entire page and let me know if any questions come to mind:

* After participant reads and initial questions are noted: I can open the question mark box and read the statements. Then click the link for discharge update or correct. Oh. The discharge upgrade, it can be due to any of these categories.

* Surprised: I  was just looking to see what it was. It wasn’t about changing the rating but changing the character or type of discharge you were given.

* Expect it to be the rating not discharge: yeah maybe something more like that. It tells you what you need and then to start the application.

    * What do you think of the listed requirements?

    * Is there anything that you would not have on-hand or would need to prepare before starting this application? No, I have a copy of my dd214 on cloud so that’s easy. Insurance, I also have scans of those, I am not sure how hard it is to get them on the tablet though.

    * What next: click sign in.

    * Do you have a sign in: I do.

I would sign in, normally I would click on the name and see that I am signed into the va website. Then start the form.

    * Do you have any additional thoughts or questions? I really wondered if I signed in correctly and if that was the correct page. That’s why I checked the top right, it looks like the health portal. I am used to the health portal and banks that show you the user id and tell you that you are logged in at the top most of the time. I saw that I was signed in and it will be signed into my account.

·   	**Variation 3: Applying to health care benefits, does not have 50% or higher disability rating (1-2 participants) - 15 minutes**

Let's pretend that you went through the sign in process and are taken to here (authenticated Intro page), from here please continue with the application.

* Participant will next be shown the short form notification

    * Can you tell me a little about your thoughts as you read this page? Easy. It would be nice if I knew how many screens were part of step one.

    * Thoughts: Nope

    * This page changed, its like stepping out of the process. Okay then wow we ended up on step three.

    * Tell me more: well I guess it found that because I have a higher disability it didn’t need to go to step 2. I suppose think it something like that.

    * questions:  I think maybe if I finish it, it would show me a summary of the steps before I submit the applications.

    * Want them to show: I would open up the veteran information tab. If it’s not saving the information then it wouldn’t show me what is going in there. If it was complete I would review the application and see everything that I entered to ensure it is correct prior to submitting the application.

    * Expectation on review page: I would really expect it to show something like a block that states I have a disability rating of 50 percent or higher. I would expect to see it here since I put that in.

    * Is there anything that stands out to you on this page? Good, bad, indifferent

    * Prompt participant to interact with alert on the third or fourth page of the form if they haven't already: I saw the line and it helped explain.

    * Obvious it can be clicked on: it is yes.

**Post task questions - 5 minutes**

Wonderful! I have a few questions about what you just saw in the prototype.

**Overall**

* Was there anything that stood out to you? It is really part of the va website.

* What does that mean to you: it has the VA banner across the top and has the drop down menu that can take you to other va links/programs.

* Anything happen you didn’t expect: no, it seems like it was very ordinary. This is exactly how I would expect an application to work.

* Tell me about this experience in your own words, as if I was another Veteran interested in applying for health care: It is a pretty typical web application. You sign into the website or create an account. You input the information and there are screens where there are steps and you enter a few pieces of information then you go to the next screen, done and you can review and submit. It promises it will be fast but it can be done in less then 30 minutes if you are comfortable with it and have a good connection. If not comfortable with it, it could take a while.

* Form compare for easy of use: it is really easy; it displays  straightforward  on the screen.

* What about time expectation: I am used to a lot of healthcare forms that as a whole ask your medical history. This is faster then filling out medical history at the doctors office.

* Any other thoughts or questions for me before we conclude? Is this supposed to login and be a new option on the va website. A preview of this would make it a lot easier to do this. I remember my switch over to the va being some very long forms that my wife had to write it in because she has a better memory of things and knows what people are looking for especially doctors and nurses. She filled out the medical history and had to do the address, number, and lots of other things. Then filed it. this is a much faster process then it use to be.

**Thank you and Closing**

Well we really appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us today. Your feedback is so helpful to us as we continue to improve our products and services for Veterans and service members.

Thank you so much again and enjoy the rest of your day!

 

