# Sept. 25 VSignals Summary

This is an anlysis of the report dated **September 25, 2022**. *We query VSignals feedback for anything that mentions check-in. For this week, there were 252 comments that mentioned check-in.*

## 48 comments mentioned eCheck-in
* 13 experienced frustration when completing eCheck-in due to receiving error states and having to check-in with staff anyway:
  * Too early message
  * Too late message
  * System time out message
  * System was down
  * Service not available
  * Phone number not in the system
  * Attempted to check-in for a clinic that wasn’t enabled
* 19 find eCheck-in difficult to utilize, just don’t like, or have never gotten it to work.
  * 1 had difficulty using eCheck-in to check in for their second appointment of the day
* 12 Veterans don’t have cellphones / don’t want to use their phone to check-in / don’t like that they could incur a text messaging fee.
* 4 were concerned about service in the building affecting their ability to check-in.
* 3 had difficulty scanning the QR code.
* 2 were confused about the difference between pre-check-in and check-in.
* 2 appreciated the staff’s help explaining eCheck-in and thinks more staff should be available to provide help.
* 1 thinks eCheck-in is causing backups at the check-in windows.

## 35 comments mentioned checking in on kiosks
* 27 want the kiosk check-in back or describe the kiosk as easy.
* 5 were unaware that the kiosks were not working and didn't find out until they attempted to use them.
  * 1 didn’t know that the kiosk didn’t check them in after attempting check-in on it.
* 4 believe the kiosk is difficult to use, hard to input information, should have staff assisting use, or asks too many questions.

## 111 comments mentioned staff
* Many of the comments were about positive or negative staff attitudes during check-in and throughout their appointment. Feedback was received about MSAs, clinicians, and other staff roles.
    * 75 mentioned positive staff attitudes/interactions
        * Words used to describe these interactions include helpful, efficient, ensure service with comfort, excellent care, excellent explanations, friendly, outstanding, professional, personable, patient, prompt, courteous, knowledgable, genuine, had my back, thorough, welcomed, respected, above and beyond, supportive, kind, exceptional.
    * 27 mentioned negative staff attitudes/interactions
        * Words used to describe these interactions include distracted, less than cordial, rude, no assistance, no one on the same sheet of music, not professional, not friendly, disrespectful, treated like I was bothering them, lack people skills, impersonal, treated like “cattle”…to just check a box.
    * 9 believe check-in and other staff roles are not staffed appropriately to accommodate Veteran needs.
        * 6 experienced no staff at the check-in desk where their appointment was located.    

## 43 comments gave general check-in feedback
* 18 mentioned long wait times between arrival and check-out.
* 7 mentioned short wait times.
* 15 stated check-in is easy/great.
* 7 were unaware where to check-in.
  * 3 were unaware that the check-in location for their appointment changed.
* 5 experienced staff not being notified of their check-in, resulting in some no shows and long wait times.
* 2 were unaware their appointment was canceled prior to arrival.
* 1 suggested a tour would be helpful when Veterans are new to a facility, so they know the location, where to go, and what to do during their first visit.
* 1 wants check-in to be closer to the building entrance.
* 1 experienced confusion around VHIC card requirements for lab work.
* 1 was sent to the wrong clinic for the wrong appointment after checking in.
* 1 stated staff were confused because the appointment was changed from telemedicine to in-person and it wasn’t changed in the system.

## 28 comments mentioned travel reimbursement
* 25 want travel pay back on the kiosk / said it was so easy to file for travel reimbursement on the kiosk.
* 17 believe it is hard to file for travel reimbursement now (via online and paper form).
* 1 experienced long wait times when attempting to submit their travel claim.
* 1 tried to go in-person to file and no one was at the travel office.
* 1 believes that travel reimbursement should be automatically done without Veteran having to fill anything out.

## General feedback about VA Healthcare
* 8 enjoyed all aspects of their appointment experience from check-in to check-out.
   * “Simply amazed how well VA has it together”
   * “Thank you for what you do for our Vets.”
   * “I felt that I was the focus of the appointment.”
* 2 had staff present their health questions or nature of pharmacy pickup in a public space where others could hear.
* 2 want the mask requirement removed.
   * 1 because they have hearing problems can can’t understand staff.
* 2 had trouble scheduling an appointment.
* 1 said “I left just as confusing if not more than when I walked in”
* 1 felt rushed during their appointment.
* 1 believes vaccine appointment times need to be spaced out more.
* 1 was concerned about VA’s use of SSN for check-in and lab labels.
* 1 stated that travel time is never calculated correctly when organizing VA rides to appointments.
* 1 states that handicap parking is too far from the main building.
* 1 finds way finding difficult at their location.
