# November 29, 2022 VSignals Summary

This is an analysis of the report with feedback from **November 1 - 15, 2022**. *We query VSignals feedback for anything that mentions check-in and travel reimbursement. For this week, there were 618 comments that mentioned check-in and travel reimbursement, which is more than double the number of comments from the last report.*

## Comments that Mentioned eCheck-in

#### Positive Comments
-  5 liked eCheck-in
-  1 said it worked wonderfully.
-  1 said it was fast and easy.

#### Negative Comments
-  *** 17 said new process is difficult/doesn't like PCI for themself, low vision, older, or low tech savvy Veterans.***
  -  1 said it requires too many steps.
  -  1 needed assistance to complete it.
-  *** 14 do not have a smart phone or don't want to use a smart phone to check-in***
-   16 tried eCheck-in and wasn't successful.
  -  1 stated that the number to text didn't work.
  -  1 gets other VeText messages, so they were confused about why eCheck-in doesn't work for them. 
  -  4 thought they were checked in via eCheck-in and they weren't.
  -  1 was redirected to staff twice.
  -  3 tried to use it for a clinic that was enabled, but they had no idea the clinic wasn't enabled. There was a sign in the waiting room.
  -  2 never got the QR code to work.
-   1 was frustrated that they coudln't update their personal information in eCheck-in.
-   2 thought they needed to download an app to check-in.
-   4 had questions about eCheck-in's security.
-   6 said they had no cell service or facility had no wifi/cell service. 
-   2 thought eCheck-in makes the check-in process longer.  
-   1 was told by staff to check-in with them after using eCheck-in, so they didn't understand why they would use eCheck-in then.   
-   1 wanted to be notified to check-in process change beforehand.

## Comments that Mentioned General Check-in

#### Positive Comments
-  11 said checking-in was easy 
    
#### Negative Comments
- ***49 had long wait times between arrival and check-out.***
  - 13 mentioned that the wait to check-in with a staff member was long.
  - 2 said the wait was so long that they left without completing their procedure/labs.
- ***14 sited short wait times between arrival and check-out.***
- 17 said that they ended up not actually checked in after originally checking in with staff.
  - 2 commented that this happened at a lab.
- 1 commented that a computer problem for staff delayed all check-ins.
- 8 were confused about how to check-in. 
  - Some perceived the process as continually changing.
  - 3 were confused about checking in for their second appointment of the day. They thought that they were already checked in for both.
- 9 believe that the check-in areas are not appropriately staffed for the volume of Veterans checking in.
-  9 didn't realized that check-in wasn't available on the kiosk.
-  1 commented that staff apparently tried to visually wave at a blind Veteran to get their attention to check them in.
-  3 went to check-in and found out VA canceled their appointment.
-  1 commented that they don't like the lab check-in process: you wait, then are calling up and they ask why you are there. Next, you sit down, then you are called back up to complete your lab test.
            
## Comments that Mentioned Kiosk

#### Positive Comments
-  32 liked/loved/enjoyed the self check-in kiosk
-  1 commented that staff helped them with the kiosk.
-  3 liked the removal of the kiosk.
-  1 liked some of the kiosk features, such as seeing their next appointments.

#### Negative Comments
-  ***41 said they want the kiosk reinstated for check-in.***
-  ***47 said they want the kiosk reinstated for travel pay.***
-  5 said removing the kiosk made travel pay a lot harder. 
-  2 feels that the kiosk machine still be in the waiting rooms is causing confusion. People are trying to check-in on them, then not being checked in.
-  1 was frustrated by signage saying to use the kiosk, which wasn't actually available.
-  2 had difficulty using the kiosk.

## Comments that Mentioned Travel Pay

#### Negative Comments
-  26 experienced difficulty/weren't successful filing a claim through BTSSS. It isn't user friendly.  
-  3 said that they stopped filing due to the difficulty of BTSSS and the paper process.  
-  13 said it was difficult receiving the actual reimbursement after completing BTSSS or paper form. They were either denied or delayed several months and hadn't heard anything. 
-  3 wants travel pay connected to check-in.
  - 1 wants to do all of this on their phone.  
-  9 were not happy about having to fill out a paper form to file/saw filing via paper as a step in the wrong direction.
-  2 had to travel to a different location to file for travel pay.

## Comments that Mentioned Staff

#### Positive Comments
-  ***178 mentioned positive staff attitudes/interactions; words used to describe these interactions included helpful, polite, compassionate, very professional, respectful, punctual, friendly, wonderful, great explaining, great, cheerful, pleasant, and more.*** 

#### Negative Comments
 -  ***54 mentioned negative staff attitudes/interactions; words used to describe these interactions include not polite, acted disgusted, loud, unprofessional, indifferent, rude, lazy, snarky, difficult, impersonal, overly aggressive, lacked compassion and empathy, made to feel rushed, grumpy, disrespectful, and lacked listening skills.***
 -  1 said "I cried once I made it to the waiting area." due to staff interactions.
 -  1 said the staff made them question whether they wanted to come back for their mental health appt.
 -  Many mentioned that staff were having personal conversations or using their personal cell phones and not helping Veterans.

## Comments about Appointments In General
-  ***48 described an overall wonderful experience from the time they checked to until the appointment was complete.***
  - "Great job all around!"
- 19 experienced wayfinding confusion when entering. Some didn't know where to go to check-in. Sometimes staff aided in the confusion.
  - 1 missed the kiosk feature where wayfinding directions were provided.
- 4 said that wait time to get an appointment was too long. 
  - Some didn't specific what their definition of "too long" was. 
  - 2 mentioned currently waiting 3-4 months to schedule.
- 7 commented on the mask requirement.
  - 1 was confused about when to mask.
  - 6 want the requirement eliminated.
- 4 had difficulty finding parking.
- 2 couldn't get through on the phone to the clinic.
- 6 found the physical layout of the check-in areas unacceptable.
  - Many reasons were given, including:
    - The layout made it hard to see the receptionists and talk with them.
    - They aren't big enough for wheelchairs or optimal for walkers to access.
- 1 complimented the physical space as clean and quiet.
- 1 hasn't been receiving appointment notifications and missed an appointment as a result.
