# Combining profile & account usability testing

[Matt Shea]

*[Participant 3] [April 7, 2020] [11:00 AM]*

## Intro (5 minutes)

Thanks for joining us today! My name is Tressa and I also have some colleagues on the line observing and taking notes. Today we're going to talk about the profile on the VA website.

Before we start, a few things I want to mention:

- **This entire session should take about an hour.** I want to be sure not to keep you much longer, so I may occasionally prompt you with the next question or topic.
- **You'll be interacting with a prototypes and a demo tool.** This is a demo tool that may not function exactly the way you expect. Some areas of the prototype will be clickable, and some will not. Since it's a demo, none of your actions will affect your actual VA information or benefits. At some points we will be using the mobile version of the website for this study - so just use your mouse like you'd use your finger on a phone. Also, all of these pages were made using a completely made up person with completely fake information. This will not affect your account or information in any way.
- **In this session, we want to hear your honest opinions.** We are not testing your ability. We just want to improve these tools to better meet Veteran's needs. I will not be offended by any opinions you express, and I welcome your feedback.
- **If for any reason and at any time you want to stop the session, please let me know.** 
- **Are you comfortable if I record my screen and audio as we talk today?** We use the recordings to confirm that we have captured your opinions accurately. The recordings are destroyed after we complete analysis, and none of your comments will be attributed to you directly. 
    - If yes: **Once I start recording, I am going to confirm that you are ok with me recording this session once more.** 
    
    **Participant:** Notes here

*Start recording.*

- **I have started recording. I'd like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record my screen the audio as we talk today?"** 

## Warm-up Questions

**Moderator: Before we look at the website, let’s start with a few warm-up questions.Tell me about your service history OR tell me about yourself**

**Participant:** Yeah, I was in the Navy from 1973-1989, ump I was enlisted for several years and an officer for almost 10
 
 
**Moderator: Have you ever been to VA.gov?**

**Participant:** Yes I have
 
**Moderator: (if yes) How often do you use VA.gov on average?**

**Participant:** Not very often, because right now I'm not eligible for benefirts because I'm currently working and I exceed the income thresholds, but I'm getting close to retirement 
 
**Moderator:  What do you typically do on Va.gov?**

**Participant:** Well, like I said, not much right now. Just looking at um benefits that might be available. Just trying to keep on the edge of what's available, so when the time comes I"ll be more familiar.

**Moderator:  Have you ever used VA.gov to update your personal information?**

**Participant:** Probably not since I first set up the account, prob ably been a couple years? I don't remember doing irt.

**Moderator:(if yes) Can you tell me about this experience?**

**Participant:** 

**Moderator:(if yes) Can you tell me what you were specifically doing?**

**Participant:** 

**Moderator:Do you remember what forms you used??**

**Participant:** 

**Moderator:Are you currently recieving any benefits from the VA? Which ones?**

**Participant:** 

**Moderator:Did you get these by applying through the website? When?**

**Participant:**

**Have you ever connected any outside apps to your VA health records? (*clarifier*) (For example, it's possible to connect your health app from your iphone to your VA health records.)**

**Participant:** No

## Screenshare

**Moderator: I'm going to ask you to go to VA.gov on your browser.  Once you have it pulled up, will you share your screen with me?  Click the  "Share" button in Zoom.  For these exercises we would like to simulate a mobile experience so if you could make your browser screen narrow like a phone screen that would be great. Try to move a bit slower than you normally would on a website and talk me through your actions. Information shown will not reflect any of your actual information.**  

## First Task: Wayfinding and profile navigation (Mobile View) (20 minutes)

**Moderator: You have recently moved and you've come to the VA website because you need to update your mailing address. Show me what you would do to change your mailing address. Okay, since you will need to be logged-in for this task, we're going to use a prototype with fake information and I'll send you the link. (*send link*) Now you've found the location and landed on this page. Just as a reminder - all of the information in this prototype is completely made up.  We will be logging in as 'Kim Washington' (who is completely fictional) today and if you could pretend to be her for these exercises, that would be great. Alright, just a reminder - you are trying to update your mailing address.**

**Participant:** Well I would presume that I would sign in first.

**Moderator: (*On the Edit form*) Since this is a prototype, we are going to simulate typing in a new address by having you click into any of the fields in this form. That will update the whole address. (*On the updated form*) OK, now you have entered a new address.**

**Participant:** Okay, so I would probably click on the name to get options. then I would guess it would be profile. And hit profile, and uhhh personal and contact information. I'd scroll down to address, and then I would change it. Click edit for mailing address and then I could enter the information. Click update. And then I'll scroll back down and confirm that it did that. 

**Moderator:I noticed that you went to 'your name', could you talk me through twhy you did that?**

Just in my experience, and not with va.gov, but my experience with apps tend to be that's where I would find the options for various profile or account settings.  I saw it was marked as a menu so I presumed that's wehre I would find that.

Did you find it easy or hard? Why?

It's where I was expecting to find it, if it wasn't as obvious I woudln't have known where to go. The reason I was expecting that was because of previous experience with apps. It's a farily standard construct. If i was new to apps, I wouldnt know where to go.

If you could go over the personal and contact information section. Let me know if anything is missing?

P: I don't see an option to let me enter another address, it makes sense why you'd have a home and mailing address. Phone numbers... uh... those are all the ones I would expect. Email address, I see there's one entry - I don't know if there's an option to have multiple email address. 

M:Great, is it clear to what parts of the page are editable?

P: Yes, very clear - the link makes it very obvious what you can edit.

M;  Did that exercise make sense?

P: Yep. No questions.

**Moderator: Great, from here, could you double check that any payments that you might recieve from the VA are going to get to you?**

**Participant:** Hmm that's interesting. Presuming I need to get back up to the top somehow. I see there's a home under the menu - I'll see what's there. I'm presuming VA benefits and healthcare... I'd try to expand that. That or possibly My VA and if not that then I'd guess... okay. Apparently I don't have an option to get back to that. I see direct deposit information, I don't know if this is what you're looking for. So without these items expanding, I'm not sure where I would go from here. I would expect the information I'm looking for is in the 'menu' option or under 'My VA'

M: Why would you expect to see them there?

P: I'm just trying to find information about my benefits, I would have expected it to be under this menu or under the personal menu. A lot of times I would expect under my VA would be information about my own VA specifics. 

**Moderator: Could you go ahead and open the profile menu? Okay, without clicking into any of the sections - could you explain to me what you think each one might be used for?**

**Participant:** We've already explored that pretty extensively. Military information, - dates of services, possibly charactizational discharged, ranks and rates.  Direct deposit information - bank information for dispersment, hope that you would have the option of being able to have the money placed in multiple bank accounts.  Account security - change my password, establish 2 factor authentication, security questions.  Connected apps - I can only guess at, apparently we have the ability to connect and interlink information from multiple apps. I don't know if that would be financial institution apps or medical services apps, personal doctors, things like that.  

**Moderator:  Go ahead and click on Account Security and look over this section. Does this section match your expectations?**

**Participant:** Okay, verification, 2-factor... that's good. Terms conditions... uh... questions about signing in. Um well, I would've anticipated at a minimum an ability to modify the passowrd. I'm presuming on the sign-in there's a password and a username. I was anticipating a change of password here. But maybe that's not how it's set up. I'd also think security questions would be here as well. 

M: Could you do that same thing for direct deposit information?

P: Account, account number, type of account, that's what I would expect. Okay payment history - that's not exactly where I would've expected to look for that information... hopefully there's an option to have multiple accounts for dispersment.

M: Where would you expect to see payment history?

P: Now that I see it here, it makes sense. But I never would've figure it out for myself. It being on the profile menu itself, I don't think I would've looked for dynamic information like payment history.  I wouldn't be surprised at this menu (profile menu) that said payment history. 

M: If you couldn't find it yourself, where would you have looked?

P: I would've tried search first. 

**Moderator: Could you scroll up to the the dark grey box below the header with your name in it? What are your thoughts about this area?**

**Participant:** Hmm my thoughts. I don't know if it has a funtion other than providing this information, it's nice to have the symobl but it's eating up a lot of screen space. Being on a mobile app - to get down to anything usable I have to swipe a couple times. It's not a tremendous amount of space being used in there, but this stuff does add up over time.  This heading is very large and in unneccessary font - it's using up about 1/3 of my screen space.

## Second Task: Connected Apps (Mobile View) (10 minutes)

**Moderator: Okay, great. Now we are going to walk through another scenario.  Imagine that last month, you used your iPhone's Health app to share your VA medical records with a non-VA doctor. But now you've decided you want to remove the Health app's access to your VA records. ** 

**Participant:** I don't recall exactly whre I saw that... oh connected apps. I'd go there. That was actually a good example of what connected apps would be used for. I'd scroll through here, looking for the particular app. You said it was an iphone app. I don't know if this is the one you're talking about - I'd presume I'd click on the disconnect button. Then I get an 'are you sure?' that's good. Get confirmation, thats good. then I see that it's gone.

**Moderator: Do you know if your information from this app is completely removed from VA.gov? **

**Participant:** No, I do not. 

**Moderator: Was anything confusing to you in this process?

P: No.

M: imagine you did have concerns, where would you go for more information?

P: I'd look through here for some additional information... I'd ssee connected apps FAQs... my first place to go would be this one. 

**Moderator: How would you connect a different app to your VA health records?

**Participant:** The only option is 'find apps you can use'. I'm guessing this would give me a list of apps that are currently on my phone and could be connected.

M: How would you feel about the app storing your records?

P: I don't feel too bad about that, as long as I have some recourse to request that they purge the data. Then I wouldn't be upset. Is it the external app storing information?

M: External app.

P:  That's probably nothing that the VA can control, so I'd probably need to contact them. Unfortunately, I'm kind of a realist about these situations, so I recognize that information might be around for awhile.

**Moderator: Did you find it easy or hard to navigate using the menu at the top of the page?**

**Participant:** Easy. It's prominent, it's pretty obvious. The coloration, the marking lets me know it's a menu.  The section above this (breadcrumb) let's me know where I am.  There's some nuances that you need to learn. It seems effective and not convoluted. Can't do much better than that.

## Third Task: Wayfinding and profile navigation (Desktop) (10 minutes)

**Moderator: Okay, we're going to switch gears and take a look at the desktop view.  We will start from the VA.gov homepage again, so if you could return to your browser with VA.gov and expand the screen so you're viewing it how you'd normally look at it. (*From VA.gov homepage*) Okay, so for this scenario you'd like to double check that the VA has the correct dates for the time that you were in the military.  How would you do that?**

**Moderator:(*send link*) Okay, you'll have to be logged in for the next step, so here's a link to the desktop protoype.  Again, this has all fake information with a fake person - Kim Washington.**

**Participant:** Oh right, I would see two possibilities that I would expect. Either the account login, or possibly my VA. I would look under the accounts menu - profile as we were before. Here I can see there's more information. I would look at my military information, and the dates for my services. 

**Moderator: Do you understand what information on the page is editable?**

**Participant:** It doesn't look like anything is editable, and if it was a hyperlink my mouse would change. 

**Moderator: Do you understand why you can't edit military information?**

**Participant:** No. There's this option, I may expect some explanation. 

M: Go ahead and click on that link if you'd like. 

P: This information is being pulled from DEERS, which is perfectly reasonable.

**Moderator: Was anything confusing? **

**Participant:** Not really, no.

**Moderator: Great, from here, could you show me how you'd edit the email address you use to log into VA.gov?**

**Participant:** To log in... I guess it wouldn't be under account sercurity... so I know it's under contact information. So I don't know if this email address is being used for log-in... I can presume that it is since it's the only one that I have. But there is a help here, so I'd actually check this first to make sure I"m doing the right thing. Okay, so this is informational for the app, and I need to go to the service that I use to log in.

**Moderator: What are our thoughts on improving that experience?**

**Participant:** I don't know that you can... I don't know what the experience is from the outside.

M: You said you'd assume the email would be the one you'd use to login

P: On a standard experience, you'd have an email address or username to login.  So I would assume that's where I would find it in Account security.

**Moderator: I have a few follow up questions. Was it easy or hard to find the pages you needed? **

**Participant:** Easy. Basically it's fairly logically laid out in a standard fashhion.

**Moderator: Could you tell me your thoughts on the navigation? **

**Participant:** I like it. It's standard and easy to recognize and there's lots of jumping around. It's clear what I can click on and it's going to change what's in the part of the panel. 

**Moderator: Any other thoughts? **

**Participant:** I prefer the desktop to mobile, but maybe it's just because I'm an old curmudgeon.


## Fourth Task: Profile and Profile 2.0 Comparison (5 minutes)

**Moderator: I'm going to quickly show you a different version of the profile (moderator shares screen with previous profile).**

**Participant:**

**Moderator: Do you remember if you ever used this version? (*if yes*) What did you do on here? (*if no*) What are your thoughts on these pages vs the pages we looked at earlier?** 

**Participant:** Uh I don't recall if I've used this. I don't know what I ever have used this website. From an interface perspective... this one is clearly all the information is thrown on the page. So at a glance you have everything available to you, with links to jump to an appropriate section.  It's too much information on this page. The pseudo-tab view is a better implementation.

**Moderator: Based on going through this flow, would you prefer to use the version we used today or this version? 

**Participant:**  I would prefer the version we used earlier.

## Post-Task Interview 

**Moderator: OK, those are all the screens we are going to look at today. I just have a few more questions for you. **

**Participant:** I like it! I can see it being very useful, it gets you all the information you're looking for.  There might be a small learning curve, but that's with everything.  There are many apps that make it much harder to find information.

**Moderator: What are your overall impressions of the new VA.gov profile we viewed today?**

**Participant:** Good! I didn't feel like I was flailing around at all, I felt like I could find what I was looking for... maybe not on the first button click but maybe on the second or third.

**Moderator: What are your overall impressions of navigating through the profile?**

**Participant:** The desktop is good.  The mobile app - there's an awful lot of wasted space, making you have to scroll a lot.  Maybe it's me because I don't have my phone all the time.  My first thought wasn't about scrolling down... anything that can be done to keep everything on one screen that would be an improvement.  You only have a finite space, the text might be important but you don't need to take up so much of the screen. Either shorten the label or even better - the heading fonts are at least twice as big as they need to be.  The identification pattern - it's all good information. The service seal is 'nice', but I don't know if that's necessary.  That might be better on the side next to the name. Fonts could definitely been a bit smaller.

**Moderator: Any questions you have for me?**

No. Not really.

## Thank-You and Closing

**Moderator: Well, we really appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us today. Your feedback is so helpful to us as we continue to work on the site and make sure it really works for Veterans.  As a thank you for your participation, we'd like to send you a $50 thank-you check. This will be sent by (Brian/Shannon from) Perigean, the people that recruited you to talk to us today. They'll work with you to figure out the right place to send it.  Any questions before we sign off?**

**Participant:** No, I'm good, thank you.

**Moderator: Great, well thank you so much again, and enjoy the rest of your day!**
