# Combining profile & account usability testing

Note taker: Shawna Hein

*Participant 5, Wednesday April 8, 1pm*

## Intro (5 minutes)

Thanks for joining us today! My name is Tressa and I also have some colleagues on the line observing and taking notes. Today we're going to talk about the profile on the VA website.

Before we start, a few things I want to mention:

- **This entire session should take about an hour.** I want to be sure not to keep you much longer, so I may occasionally prompt you with the next question or topic.
- **You'll be interacting with a prototypes and a demo tool.** This is a demo tool that may not function exactly the way you expect. Some areas of the prototype will be clickable, and some will not. Since it's a demo, none of your actions will affect your actual VA information or benefits. At some points we will be using the mobile version of the website for this study - so just use your mouse like you'd use your finger on a phone. Also, all of these pages were made using a completely made up person with completely fake information. This will not affect your account or information in any way.
- **In this session, we want to hear your honest opinions.** We are not testing your ability. We just want to improve these tools to better meet Veteran's needs. I will not be offended by any opinions you express, and I welcome your feedback.
- **If for any reason and at any time you want to stop the session, please let me know.** 
- **Are you comfortable if I record my screen and audio as we talk today?** We use the recordings to confirm that we have captured your opinions accurately. The recordings are destroyed after we complete analysis, and none of your comments will be attributed to you directly. 
    - If yes: **Once I start recording, I am going to confirm that you are ok with me recording this session once more.** 
    
    **Participant:** Notes here

*Start recording.*

- **I have started recording. I'd like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record my screen the audio as we talk today?"** 

## Warm-up Questions

**Moderator: Before we look at the website, let’s start with a few warm-up questions.Tell me about your service history OR tell me about yourself**

I served in the navy for 20 years, retired almost 5 years ago.
 
**Moderator: Have you ever been to VA.gov?**

Yeah, a few times. I haven’t been recently… maybe I have. But I have in the past.
 
**Moderator: (if yes) How often do you use VA.gov on average?**

Lately, honestly not very often.
 
**Moderator:  What do you typically do on Va.gov?**

Let me see what was I doing the last time… usually if I go on there I’m looking for some particular type of information… let me think. Like I said it’s been awhile since I’ve been on there. I might go on there to… well actually I used it quite a bit for education purposes… I haven’t filed for disability so I haven’t used it yet for that. Every now and then maybe look for health care information

**Moderator:  Have you ever used VA.gov to update your personal information?**

At this moment I don’t recall.

**Moderator:Are you currently receiving any benefits from the VA? Which ones?**

No.

**Have you ever connected any outside apps to your VA health records? (*clarifier*) (For example, it's possible to connect your health app from your iphone to your VA health records.)**

No, I have not. 

## Screenshare

**Moderator: I'm going to ask you to go to VA.gov on your browser.  Once you have it pulled up, will you share your screen with me?  Click the  "Share" button in Zoom.  For these exercises we would like to simulate a mobile experience so if you could make your browser screen narrow like a phone screen that would be great. Try to move a bit slower than you normally would on a website and talk me through your actions. Information shown will not reflect any of your actual information.**  

## First Task: Wayfinding and profile navigation (Mobile View) (20 minutes)

**Moderator: You have recently moved and you've come to the VA website because you need to update your mailing address. Show me what you would do to change your mailing address. Okay, since you will need to be logged-in for this task, we're going to use a prototype with fake information and I'll send you the link. (*send link*) Now you've found the location and landed on this page. Just as a reminder - all of the information in this prototype is completely made up.  We will be logging in as 'Kim Washington' (who is completely fictional) today and if you could pretend to be her for these exercises, that would be great. Alright, just a reminder - you are trying to update your mailing address.**

I would do that one of two ways. I would start with Menu, to see if I can find…
(clicks on the menu on top right)
Well that just gives me VA locations.
(goes back home)
(clicks on search, types in “change of address”)
(Clicks on “change your address”, first result)
Search menu is probably the quickest way… so that’s how I would do it. And then go through what it says, which says sign in to VA.gov...

**Moderator: (*On the Edit form*) Since this is a prototype, we are going to simulate typing in a new address by having you click into any of the fields in this form. That will update the whole address. (*On the updated form*) OK, now you have entered a new address.**

So I would go back onto the VA website… right.  
(She first tries to search again but it’s not clickable.)

Then she clicks on the menu that says “Kim” and goes to profil

Well I guess I can go to profile since that’s usually what you do.  Contact info…

She clicks into contact info

So am I trying to change my mailing or my home?

She clicks in

This is cool… oh wow that’s neat. And then just hit update.

That was pretty cool though.. The fact that you can go in there and hit edit and it gives you an option to one if you live on a military base… and you can put whatever information and leave it blank and hit update and you’re good to go… so it’s convenient, I like that.

**Moderator: Why do you think we show a mailing address and home address?**

It’s perfect becayse somebody like myself may live out in the country like I do, so I have a physical address and then I have a PO box as a mailing address.

**Moderator: Did you feel like it was easy or hard to edit your mailing address overall?**

Since I knew where to go… under my pretend name and hit profile… it was pretty simple. For one I couldn’t click the search button and then I thought to myself well wait a minute, let me look under my name… a lot of times when you’re updating anything, you click on your name to update your information… so I kind of should have figured that out from the get go 

**Moderator: Take a look at the 'personal information' section: what information would you expect us to see here? Is anything missing?**

I like that there is two addresses, for me personally I have two. This looks about standard… maybe an other number… possibly an alternate email. 

**Moderator: Is it clear to you what parts of the page are editable?**

Yes, there is a big blue edit underline, like a hyperlink, so yes.

**Moderator: Great, from here, could you double check that any payments that you might recieve from the VA are going to get to you?**

Let’s see… (scrolls up)... I would think to go back… to the name.  (the name isn’t clickable in the prototype though)... for example when I use Amazon I can find my account information under my name.

(notetaker: seems like she’s scrolling past and not seeing the “profile menu” section for awhile)

I’m clicking [the name] and [it’s not working]… oh profile menu, there you go.  Direct deposit information.  And there it is, direct deposit information. 

**Moderator: I noticed you had a hard time finding the profile menu could you speak to that?**

I kept clicking under the name and I didn’t pay attention to the bar. Which actually says profile menu. I automatically went to the name… but like I said profile menu is right there, so once I saw that I was able to navigate from there.

**Moderator: do you have any thoughts on how to improve that?**

I know for me it was an oversight on my part because my mind automatically went to looking for my name, but it’s right… there.  I mean. It could be a different color, or it could be capitalized, but other than that, you have this blue bar right there, I just missed it… probably because I was scrolling up real fast and my mind was on checking under my name.

**Moderator: Could you go ahead and open the profile menu? Okay, without clicking into any of the sections - could you explain to me what you think each one might be used for?**

Personal and contact information we’ve already been through that… self explanatory it’s all your contact information.

Military information I would think, information that pertains to your military service… branch, rank, years

Direct deposit we just looked through that, for banking information.  

Account security I would think has information pertaining to the security of your account. Password, reset, or something like that… making sure maybe something is set to private, or stuff like that.

Connected apps… maybe other apps that you might use like the military pay website, or, yeah that’s the only one.. But other possible military related apps in connected apps.

**Moderator:  Go ahead and click on Account Security and look over this section. Does this section match your expectations?**

I like that, the two factor authentication, I like that. I have websites at work that use a two factor authentication, I like it… because, to me, it’s that extra step saying this is you, this isn’t anybody else because you’re the only one that’s got this information… the only other thing I can think of as far as security… is a password reset… um but then… yeah. Changing the password if you need to. Other than that I like it. 

**Moderator: Could you scroll up to the the dark grey box below the header with your name in it? What are your thoughts about this area?**

I like it. (laughs) honestly I do. It kind of reminds you who you are. I like it. I mean… it says ok this is what branch… this is who you are, this is the branch you served under. It’s simple, it’s a simple identifier. It kind of looks cool. 

## Second Task: Connected Apps (Mobile View) (10 minutes)

**Moderator: Okay, great. Now we are going to walk through another scenario.  Imagine that last month, you used your iPhone's Health app to share your VA medical records with a non-VA doctor. But now you've decided you want to remove the Health app's access to your VA records.** 

Hmm… now that’s interesting. That I’ve never done. I might go back to profile… because I’m thinking more than likely I would have to go… (goes to profile menu, hovers over security briefly then clicks on connected accounts)... maybe go to connected accounts… and… (scrolls down on the connected apps page)... maybe there’s something here where I can do that… I’ve never done that, so I’m not aware of how that’s done.

**Moderator: so what would you do if you were confused and needed help?**

I would go to the search engine and search for sharing medical files or something basic like that.

**Moderator: if you could scroll down and you want to disconnect your apple healthkit app, could you show me how you would do that?**

(Clicks disconnect) and then hit disconnect, right?... (sees the confirmation)... ok so I take it this would be where it would be done… I learned something new.  

**Moderator: Do you know if your information from this app is completely removed from VA.gov?**

I don’t know. (laughs)

**Moderator: if you were wondering about that, would you possibly know where to look?**
Actually probably not.

**Moderator: How would you connect a different app to your VA health records?
(if confused - add clarifiers): If you wanted to find new apps on your phone to use with VA.gov, where would you look? **

Probably in this same area that I’m in right now, where the apps are at. Find the applicable app and add it.  

**Moderator: could you show me?**

It looks like… hm find apps you can use… I would probably go there, find apps you can use. That’s good that there is a Go to connected accounts FAQ, that question you just asked me about connecting and disconnecting, that would probably be a good place to start as far as finding information

**Moderator: was anything confusing about this process?**

For me there was nothing confusing, just the fact that I wasn’t aware of the sharing medical records or anything like that… but it shows apps that you might already have… there’s an FAQ section and a find apps you can use in case you want to put more in there… it allows you to disconnect… so, outside of me not being aware of sharing medical records and stuff, no.

**Moderator: do you have any questions?**

No, to me it’s great. It’s a great learning.

## Third Task: Wayfinding and profile navigation (Desktop) (10 minutes)

**Moderator: Okay, we're going to switch gears and take a look at the desktop view.  We will start from the VA.gov homepage again, so if you could return to your browser with VA.gov and expand the screen so you're viewing it how you'd normally look at it. (*From VA.gov homepage*) Okay, so for this scenario you'd like to double check that the VA has the correct dates for the time that you were in the military.  How would you do that?**

Well, if the page is a reflection... I would sign in and look for military information. 

**Moderator:(*send link*) Okay, you'll have to be logged in for the next step, so here's a link to the desktop protoype.  Again, this has all fake information with a fake person - Kim Washington.**

(Clicks on the name Kim at the top right, clicks on Profile. Goes to Military information)  

And… it shows me my military information, and it gives you an option what if it doesn’t look right.

**Moderator: Do you understand why you can't edit military information?**

Well I would imagine you can’t just put… you can’t alter anything about your military service. Only they can.

(Opens up the hint text) 

I would click there [what if my military information doesn’t look right] and reach out to DMDC for that

**Moderator: Was anything confusing?**

No

**Moderator: Great, from here, could you show me how you'd edit the email address you use to log into VA.gov?**

Goes to personal and contact… everything looks the same as the phone prototype… I would go over where it says email and hit edit.  

(Notetaker note: The “delete” action probably should be consistent with other cards?)

**Moderator: when you change this email do you understand what it’s changing?**

I’m thinking it’s just the site… not sure if it changes everything across the board but anything pertaining to the site

(clicks into “how do I update the email I use to sign into VA.gov)

Oh there’s more ways to update

**Moderator: can you give me your thoughts about what you’re thinking right now**

Well there is an how do I update the email I use to sign into VA.gov… it gives you that information.. 

**Moderator: Do you understand why you need to go to an outside page to edit your email address?** 

Security reasons?  That’s my first thought.

**Moderator: I have a few follow up questions. Was it easy or hard to find the pages you needed?**

It depends on what I’m looking for… quite honestly if I’m not sure where to find it, then I use the search engine

**Moderator: Was anything confusing?**

No, not yet.

**Moderator: Desktop vs Mobile version of the nav?**

To me they are the same but on the mobile app you have to do things a little differently… on the mobile app there is the bar and the dropdown menu… either way you get to where you need to go.

**Moderator: anything else?**

No, it’s pretty cool. For me it… looks good, for me… it’s user friendly. Like I said, if there’s something I’m not sure of or know exactly where to find it, search bar is there. So… it’s a one stop shop.

## Fourth Task: Profile and Profile 2.0 Comparison (5 minutes)

**Moderator: I'm going to quickly show you a different version of the profile (moderator shares screen with previous profile).**

**Moderator: Do you remember if you ever used this version? (*if yes*) What did you do on here? (*if no*) What are your thoughts on these pages vs the pages we looked at earlier?** 

I might have… it’s been awhile since I’ve actually gone in and looked in my profile

This one is cluttered… there is way too much going on on one page. Where the other one… do you have to click to get to where you need to go, yes, but, it’s categorized. This is your contact information, this is your military information, this is your banking information. It’s not all on one page... that (being on one page) is more work to me, versus it being categorized.  On the webpage there is a menu, on the mobile there is a dropdown menu. So… the other version to me is much better, it’s less convoluted, less confusing. You don’t have to scroll down… on this one you have to scroll down for days just to get to where you want to go. I like the setup (of the other one)

**Moderator: Based on going through this flow, would you prefer to use the version we used today or this version?** 

Definitely the version I looked at earlier

**Moderator: Why?** 

For me, personally, I don’t want to scroll for something I’m looking for. Like on this version, personal information is way on the bottom. To where the other version, you know you just click from the menu and what you need is right there without having to go through all the other stuff. So if I wanted to change my contact info I just go to the contact info. Or if I want to change my banking information I can just go to account in the many without having to scroll and look for anything. Everything is categorized and convenient. This is not convenient. 


## Post-Task Interview 

**Moderator: OK, those are all the screens we are going to look at today. I just have a few more questions for you.**

**Moderator: What are your overall impressions of the new VA.gov profile we viewed today?**

I like it. It’s simple, easy to use. It had what I needed… so it was good.

**Moderator: What are your overall impressions of navigating through the profile?**

I was good with it. I mean, like I said it was easy. Simple. You know what you need is right… whatever you’re trying to do… is right there.

**Moderator: Overall, how could we improve the VA profile?**

Honestly I… for me personally I didn’t see anything. To me everything was there.  To me it was simple and to the point. 

**Moderator: Any questions you have for me?**

No, I really want to thank you all for giving me this opportunity to assist with this. I thought it was a really great experience. 

## Thank-You and Closing

**Moderator: Well, we really appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us today. Your feedback is so helpful to us as we continue to work on the site and make sure it really works for Veterans.  As a thank you for your participation, we'd like to send you a $50 thank-you check. This will be sent by (Brian/Shannon from) Perigean, the people that recruited you to talk to us today. They'll work with you to figure out the right place to send it.  Any questions before we sign off?**

**Moderator: Great, well thank you so much again, and enjoy the rest of your day!**


