# Combining profile & account usability testing

[Nicolaus Wygonik]

*[Participant #] [4/9/2020] [1:06 CT]*

## Intro (5 minutes)

Thanks for joining us today! My name is Tressa and I also have some colleagues on the line observing and taking notes. Today we're going to talk about the profile on the VA website.

Before we start, a few things I want to mention:

- **This entire session should take about an hour.** I want to be sure not to keep you much longer, so I may occasionally prompt you with the next question or topic.
- **You'll be interacting with a prototypes and a demo tool.** This is a demo tool that may not function exactly the way you expect. Some areas of the prototype will be clickable, and some will not. Since it's a demo, none of your actions will affect your actual VA information or benefits. At some points we will be using the mobile version of the website for this study - so just use your mouse like you'd use your finger on a phone. Also, all of these pages were made using a completely made up person with completely fake information. This will not affect your account or information in any way.
- **In this session, we want to hear your honest opinions.** We are not testing your ability. We just want to improve these tools to better meet Veteran's needs. I will not be offended by any opinions you express, and I welcome your feedback.
- **If for any reason and at any time you want to stop the session, please let me know.** 
- **Are you comfortable if I record my screen and audio as we talk today?** We use the recordings to confirm that we have captured your opinions accurately. The recordings are destroyed after we complete analysis, and none of your comments will be attributed to you directly. 
    - If yes: **Once I start recording, I am going to confirm that you are ok with me recording this session once more.** 
    
    **Participant:** yes that fine, {recording button press} Repeated yes that fine 

*Start recording.*

- **I have started recording. I'd like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record my screen the audio as we talk today?"** 

## Warmup Questions

**Moderator: Before we look at the website, let’s start with a few warmup questions. Tell me about your service history OR tell me about yourself**

 **PARTICIPANT:**  Well ok I went in 1999 late, very end of 98 early 99 and well let’s see, was Army dual military with spouse during that time, let’s see got out 2014 as a disabled veteran Now we have a farm.

Yes, both of us, my spouse gets VA disability payments.  My spouse has used the education service and other wise heath care mostly 

**MODERATOR: Did you get these by apply through a website**
**PARTICIPANT:**  Yes

**MODERATOR: Do you remember when?**
**PARTICIPANT:**  The first, education benefits was 2005 2004 probably and then I applied just recently for myself and for the VA disability the first application as 2003 and then again in 2014.

**MODERATOR:  How often do you use VA on average**
**PARTICIPANT:**  At least 1 a month for something it seems like. For myself or for my husband check out something at least once a month, sometime more

**MODERATOR: You mentioned that you use it for benefits do you do anything else on the website?**
**PARTICIPANT:**  I will pock around and try and find more information or I will research thing pretty regularly to see, you hear that this going to change that is going to change so I look up that a lot what the current benefits are what the current regulation are. 
I pull off a lot of things, when you do something in particular, they want the VA letter. And so that a pretty regular thing I print that off a lot, going in there for that, let see that usually it. 

**MODERATOR: Have you ever used VA.gov to update your personal information? **
**PARTICIPANT:**  Yeah I have done that. I know that there has been some…. When there many changes over the years 2014 when I retired, the system deleted things or purging things and I was going in and updating a lot of stuff for me and my husband, it would revert a very old address for me like my entry address like 20 years a go. So that was a little frustrating. 

**MODERATOR: Have you ever connected outside app to VA records**
**PARTICIPANT:**  I haven’t yet. I know lets see. I was trying to do stuff about a year, a go but I have had a lot of problems with the DS login page. Any time I go in there I wound up spending time trying to get in and it keeps timing me out or there would be a blank page. I have not done a lot of exploring because I am spending my time logging in. 
. 

## First Task: Wayfinding and profile navigation (Mobile View) (20 minutes)

**MODERATOR:  You have recently moved and you've come to the VA website because you need to update your mailing address. Show me what you would do to change your mailing address. Okay, since you will need to be logged-in for this task, we're going to use a prototype with fake information and I'll send you the link. (*send link*) Now you've found the location and landed on this page. Just as a reminder - all of the information in this prototype is completely made up.  We will be logging in as 'Kim Washington' (who is completely fictional) today and if you could pretend to be her for these exercises, that would be great. Alright, just a reminder - you are trying to update your mailing address.**
**PARTICIPANT:**  Okay get some of that background junk of. Like that. great

**MODERATOR: (*On the Edit form*) Since this is a prototype, we are going to simulate typing in a new address by having you click into any of the fields in this form. That will update the whole address. (*On the updated form*) OK, now you have entered a new address.**
**PARTICIPANT:**  okay let see.

**PARTICIPANT:**  okay so I would… I think MyVA, its been a little while so I don’t know exactly. I don’t want to do anything so let’s see.

**MODERATOR: Sorry what are you looking for**
**PARTICIPANT:**  looking for where my profile would be, okay I see where I am at, ok so I would scroll down to change address, (scrolling…silence)

**MODERATOR: What are you looking for here? **
**PARTICIPANT:**  I am looking for the process and see if I c	an do it online, Click edit and Looking for update, (scrolling around to find something (Clicked on menu). Silence-I would go to my VA profile-

**MODERATOR:  Sorry we are changing the mailing address**
**PARTICIPANT:**  Okay, I would put in my new address and update. Alright

**MODERATOR: Great, I noticed that you clicked on MYVA**
**PARTICIPANT:**  I was looking… I was trying to remember how to get to the profile information and thinking it was under that portal. There are things.. as things change just trying to adjust and remember where everything goes. 

**MODERATOR: Did you find it easy or hard where to edit your personal information? **
**PARTICIPANT:**  Well once I hit info it was easy to fine.

**MODERATOR: Once you found it was it easy or hard to edit your email address over all? 
**PARTICIPANT:**  Very easy.

**MODERATOR: Why? **
**PARTICIPANT:**  Once I got to this screen it was very strait forward. I mean I actually just there the address and edit is right there with the address. It a lot more user friendly than many other VA stuff.  Usually it’s a form and submit and it’s a long drown out process

**MODERATOR: What are your thought on why we would need your mailing address and home address? **
**PARTICIPANT:**  I am guessing home like, home address would be is where your travel and care is set up, as far as if you receive healthcare and distance is calculated for things. Mailing would be where you get appointment reminders, trying to think, pamphlets, update on what kind a of services are out there.

**MODERATOR: Is it clear to you on this page what parts are editable? **
**PARTICIPANT:**  Yeah, I like the edit there and being able to click on it.

**MODERATOR: What information would you expect to see here and is there any information missing? **
**PARTICIPANT:**  (Reads headers out loud) Personal contact, birthday and sex, address and phone numbers and that nice how it has the mobel and the home because that has been an issue sometimes in the past, email address. That is pretty all encompassing.  The only other things that might be useful but might be too for this area might not be personal contact info, at one point when you login into the profile say or have an icon or something if you were a disable veteran  or a percentage but its been several iterations a go and a that would be the only other things or your treatment physicality but that may go into other database and things. 

**MODERATOR: Great can you go into the gray box with your name. Can you just give me your thoughts about this area? **
**PARTICIPANT:**  It’s really cool that it has Army (seal) there it makes it personalized it to you and not just another veteran that fun and I like it.. It’s nice your name and service is highlighted there.

**MODERATOR: Any thoughts on how it fits into the rest of the page?  **
**PARTICIPANT:**  I think its appropriate that it is at the top of the page, it set aside the header that appropriate. You click on it is the first thing you see and it’s the header and I think that is appropriate.

**MODERATOR: Great did that exercise make scene to you? Was it confusing at all? **
**PARTICIPANT:**  No. I think it was strait forward

**MODERATOR: From here can you double check that the VA has the correct banking information for you? **
**PARTICIPANT:**  Okay, let’s see.  Ahh that’s handy. Direct deposit info now. There is my bank account and number, yeah this looks good and you can click on payment history.

**MODERATOR: Okay, I noticed that you click on your name first and then went to profile menu? Can you speak to that? **
**PARTICIPANT:**  Yeah, I guess, I just thought for some reason I would go back to my main profile than once I clicked there was nothing then I would go to the profile menu.	 

**MODERATOR: Okay, when you say my main profile menu what do you mean by that? **
**PARTICIPANT:**  I was just thinking my info, I did not think of profile menu. I have never… I don’t know. I would click on my name and my info would be there or my name would be there?

**MODERATOR: Great, can you just open that profile menu, without click in on any of those links please walk me through those and tell me what your thoughts would be for each of those. **
**PARTICIPANT:**  
•	Personal and contact info- We went over that is your name and services, your mailing address email address and phone number
•	Military- Would be your entry date and exit date, your type of discharge, Service like Army, Marines, Navy. That is probably most of that.
•	Direct Deposit- Again banking info and were your benefits go to.
•	Account- Username and password, and any kind of security questions, if you have a security pic icon, possibly 2 step verification set up, recovery methods, that kind of things
•	Connect Apps- Probably be if you are using any VA apps like The Move app, I don’t know I am guessing, or any other apps that you are using connected to your profile. 

**MODERATOR: Great Do you feel like there is anything missing from this section. **
**PARTICIPANT:**  The only other thing I would say is possibility benefit information. And again, that might include education options, your disability stuff I don’t know, or go to a menu that link to those things.  If I was coming to this and scrolling through it would be nice to have it all in one spot. 

**MODERATOR: All right. Can you go ahead and click on Account Security for me. Can you scroll through this section and see if it matches your expectation or see if anything is missing here? **
**PARTICIPANT:**  Sorry I have some background noise

**MODERATOR: Repeats previous question? **
**PARTICIPANT:**  That good you identify the 2 step factor that is good. My only other thought would be is if you wanted to change your password or your username, of course you can’t change your DS login but you can change some of the other.

**MODERATOR: Great, any other thoughts about this section before we move on? **
**PARTICIPANT:**  No


**Moderator:**

Things to look for: 
- I noticed you got to the form to change your address from (*homepage*) or (*through the profile*) why did you go there?
- Was it easy or hard to find where to edit your personal information?
- Take a look at the 'personal information' section: what information would you expect us to see here? Is anything missing?
- Did you feel like it was easy or hard to edit your mailing address overall?
- Why do you think we show a mailing address and home address?
- Is it clear to you what parts of the page are editable?
- Did that exercise make sense to you?

### Things to watch for:

- I noticed you clicked [this]. Talk about why you chose this.
- How does the participant interact with the nametag area of the page? Do they skip over it?
- Do they understand why they can't edit all parts of the page?

## Second Task: Connected Apps (Mobile View) (10 minutes)

**MODERATOR: Okay, great. Now we are going to walk through another scenario.  Imagine that last month, you used your iPhone's Health app to share your VA medical records with a non-VA doctor. But now you've decided you want to remove the Health app's access to your VA records. ** 
**PARTICIPANT:**  okay, 

**MODERATOR: Could you walk me through how you would do that? **
**PARTICIPANT:**  Okay, (scrolling up. To menu), I think I would go to connect app and see what apps are here. (scrolling) Okay you say Apple health kit? You just disconnect, that nice I like it

**MODERATOR: why? **
**PARTICIPANT:**  Its intuitive, It’s similar to other apps I use for uhm, like Drop Box per-say, where I have other apps that have access to it. Where I can have access to verify who has access to it and I can block them or allow it.  It’s good, 

**MODERATOR: Do you know if your information from this app is completely removed from VA.gov? **
**PARTICIPANT:**  Hum, let’s see. Reading (mouse is moving left and right) yeah it says it is. You just have to remove your data from Apple’s health kit.

**MODERATOR: Does that make scene to you? **
**PARTICIPANT:**  Yes it does.

**MODERATOR: Do you feel anything was confusing at all in this process? **
**PARTICIPANT:**  No it sounds pretty good.  I like it its strait forward.  Intuitive, I guess.

**MODERATOR: Imagine you did have concerns, where would you go for more information? **
**PARTICIPANT:**  Let’s see if I want to see more, I could go here for facts connect apps or find more apps I can use.

**MODERATOR: What do you think is in the Find apps you can use link? **
**PARTICIPANT:**   To me that would be apps that are available or that might be relevant to the VA.gov like, the app I mentioned the Move app that I mentioned. Or some of the health apps out there.

**MODERATOR: In this connected app section does this have missing? **
**PARTICIPANT:**  No I think it is all there, it shows a list of your apps and what apps you can link or use and there facts if you have questions. l like that there is explanation, so it gives you a full discloser.

**MODERATOR: Do you have any questions about the process we just looked at? **
**PARTICIPANT:**  No.

**MODERATOR: Just little shift of gears, Can you please give me your thoughts on Profile Navigation? **
**PARTICIPANT:**  It clear and simple and what is provided in the menu is pretty good.   It is defiantly an improvement from what some of the VA programs have now. So, I like it.
Let’s see the only thing that they have is my  “my go to” is go to my name for the profile menu,

**MODERATOR: Why? **
**PARTICIPANT:**  I don’t know I don’t necessarily expect to go down to another menu here. (moussing over lower menu). I don’t know I see the little arrow there, which would indicates that there is a menu there. But I am not sure. Maybe because there is an arrow beside the name I would go there. 

**MODERATOR: Do you have any thought on how we could improve that experience? **
**PARTICIPANT:**  Let’s see, maybe center this langue there. So, it is a little more noticeable and not in this line of sight with this other tag. “Home and profile” maybe larger or bold type in the center,

**MODERATOR: Would you say this navigation is easy or hard to use? **
**PARTICIPANT:**  Easy.

**MODERATOR: why? **
**PARTICIPANT:**  Well I like the menu that pops up there and it got all you information you can see that you can click on it go to a different area and highlighted with the blue and the menu item you select is highlighted there so it  give you a kind of visual direction for where you are going.. Nice simple and “X” to get out. 


**MODERATOR:  How would you connect a different app to your VA health records? 
(if confused - add clarifiers): If you wanted to find new apps on your phone to use with VA.gov, where would you look? **

### Things to watch for:

- Do they understand where to go for 'Connected apps'?
- Do they understand that they cannot connect a new app through VA.gov?
- Does the terminology 'connected apps' make sense?
- Make note of how user interacts with navigation.  Is it easy to use and to find?

## Third Task: Wayfinding and profile navigation (Desktop) (10 minutes)

**MODERATOR: Okay, we're going to switch gears and take a look at the desktop view.  We will start from the VA.gov homepage again, so if you could return to your browser with VA.gov and expand the screen so you're viewing it how you'd normally look at it. (*From VA.gov homepage*) Okay, so for this scenario you'd like to double check that the VA has the correct dates for the time that you were in the military.  How would you do that?**

**PARTICIPANT:**  Great, on site, I would scroll down and see to… Here you can get your entire record (moussing over Records link ‘Request your military records’) I know for history that you can also go to this benefit letters and that will include your service date. I think that is it. (Scrolling down) I think that would be the best place find that here in your Records. 
**MODERATOR: Where would you click to go there? Where would you look? **
**PARTICIPANT:**  l would probably, Let’s see Military Record.   Here it gives you a better breakdown (Scrolling through left div) So you can search your historical military records or your discharge document. 

**MODERATOR: Okay, you'll have to be logged in for the next step, so here's a link to the desktop prototype.  Again, this has all fake information with a fake person - Kim Washington.**
If you were trying to find your military profile where would you go?
**PARTICIPANT:**  For my records correct.

**MODERATOR: Yes just that the dates in the military are correct? **
**PARTICIPANT:**  It would be nice to go to MyVA but I would be here through Records

**MODERATOR: You said it you think it would be in MyVa? **
**PARTICIPANT:**  It would be nice. I know that we were in there earlier and it was not there.  I guess what throw me off here is that in the VA it si just talking about medical records so then if you look at military record it is talking about DDV 14.

**MODERATOR: What would you assume would be in MyVA**
**PARTICIPANT:**  It would be nice If like under the service records, if there was information about let see there military record, ahh it does have it. 

**MODERATOR:Is this an appropriate place or is there a better place for this to live under? **
**PARTICIPANT:**  Okay so it is under the name, ooh that good actually, yeah

**MODERATOR: Do you understand what information on this page is editable? **
**PARTICIPANT:**  I would think none of this (main div) is (not editable) without paperwork.  Your personal info you DD and security and apps. 

**MODERATOR: Is it clear why you may not be able to edit this information? **
**PARTICIPANT:**  There is no edit button or course it probably not something we should be messing with as an end user.  So then to click on that it does explain how to how to edit if there is an error.

**MODERATOR: Did you find that easy or hard to find on the page? **
**PARTICIPANT:**  Not to hard to find I just did not know it was there. That part was nice. 

**MODERATOR: Any other thoughts about military information? **
**PARTICIPANT:**  The only other thing I would add is what types of discharge, honorable/dishonorable because it does effect what type of VA benefits you get.

**MODERATOR: How would you edit your email address used to login to VA.gov**
**PARTICIPANT:**  I would look under personal info and then email address, edit, and update. That was pretty simple.

**MODERATOR: When you see this email address what do you think it is connected to or does it make scene that it is connected here? **
**PARTICIPANT:**  So it look like it connects for corresponded,  it’s not intuitive that that is your log in because I do not remember being able to use an email address to log in, I know here it says you can so that good it does explain you can, which is good so now I can see now I can login with this stuff, 

**MODERATOR: Do you understand why you would need to go to an outside page to edit your email address? **
**PARTICIPANT:**  I am guessing because you could potentially use it to log into multiple databases.

**MODERATOR: Can you please scroll up to the navigation to the desktop view? What are your thought on the navigation? **
**PARTICIPANT:**  it looks good similar block as the mobile view. I like that it shows these links as clickable with the blue and were you are is highlighted in bold. Looks good looks professional.

**MODERATOR: What are your thoughts on this navigation verses the mobile screen. **
**PARTICIPANT:**  They are defiantly similar.   I recognize it as similar for the pop from the other view.  It seems appropriate and comparable.

**MODERATOR: Did you find it easy or hard to find the page? **
**PARTICIPANT:**  It was not too bad.  It’s just learn where things are as they change and update to find where to go.  like that the military information is here now. 

**MODERATOR: do you have thought on how to? **
**PARTICIPANT:**  The only other things because there are change and things are new is possible to have an icon somewhere that you click on for more information. At least while we are learning where things are, like a like a little question’s thing. 

**MODERATOR: Did you find anything confusing in this experience?**
**PARTICIPANT:**  I was little thrown off by going to get the military information but once I saw one in the profile it was a nice.  


    

### Things to watch for:

- Does the overall desktop navigation make sense?
- Is the user confused by any terminology?
- Does the user understand the FAQ dropdowns?

## Fourth Task: Profile and Profile 2.0 Comparison (5 minutes)

**MODERATOR: I'm going to quickly show you a different version of the profile (moderator shares screen with previous profile).**

**PARTICIPANT:**   Okay

**MODERATOR: Do you remember if you ever used this version? (*if yes*) What did you do on here? (*if no*) What are your thoughts on these pages vs the pages we looked at earlier?** 
**PARTICIPANT:**  I don’t think so

**MODERATOR: What are your thoughts on these pages ? **
**PARTICIPANT:**  Let’s see. It nice to see the DoD number is there with your info, SS# probably unnecessary is, I also don’t think the service awards aren’t necessary.  Checking account info looks good. It looks like a lot of similar info, does not have the apps there.

**MODERATOR: What are your thoughts about the layout from this page verses the other page? **
**PARTICIPANT:**  It is a lot of scrolling, I like how there is a little more silo thing in the menu instead going through 5 pages of clicking or scrolling, so that nice.  It is very kind of jumbled on the current thing. It’s like a big run on sentence.  I defiantly like the broke down parts more, with the menu items.

**MODERATOR: Based on today would you prefer to use the version now or the version earlier? **
**PARTICIPANT:**  Earlier? 

**MODERATOR: Why? **
**PARTICIPANT:**  Definity having a specific thing verse pages and page is a lot nicer.  I can do a screenshot verse that one piece. Yeah, I think I like the early one better, mainly for that, especially if you add a few this that would make it a one shop stop

**MODERATOR: What kind of things? **
**PARTICIPANT:**  I like the things like honorable, dishonorable discharge, awards don’t matter for the VA but your rating does. What type of discharge is important? Obviously, the dates are import I would just add a quick disability rating, permeant or temperedly and type of discharge from the military. What else. I think that is it. 

**MODERATOR: What was your overall impressions of the screens you viewed today? **
**PARTICIPANT:**  I like, I really like coming in and seeing my service Army there. It’s a nice little feeling like a reminder a way to feel connected. I like the boxes where it has more organize feeling, the little dropdown menu is good.  See where to update your info. This just looks clean and easy to use. I would think a vet at any age could come and look see. Under account security 2 factor, and personal contact email that, I would prefer the login piece here so you could update your login at lets.  That may be the only other thing to add here. 

**MODERATOR: What were your overall impression of navigating through the profile? **
**PARTICIPANT:**  It simile I like it. You can go through and see most relevant info.  It seems pretty intuitive. Once you are here. That something a lot of the VA profile did not have in the past, more utilitarian that was not intuitive thought process put into it. It makes it user friendly. 

**MODERATOR: Any more thought on how we can improvement the VA profile?**
**PARTICIPANT:**  No nothing else besides military, disability VA disability rating and add log in to security page. 

**MODERATOR: Okay great any questions for me? **
**PARTICIPANT:**  No you are all in the right direction. 

**Moderator: Based on going through this flow, would you prefer to use the version we used today or this version? **

## Thank-You and Closing

**MODERATOR: Well, we really appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us today. Your feedback is so helpful to us as we continue to work on the site and make sure it really works for Veterans.  As a thank you for your participation, we'd like to send you a $50 thank-you check. This will be sent by (Brian/Shannon from) Perigean, the people that recruited you to talk to us today. They'll work with you to figure out the right place to send it.  Any questions before we sign off?**
 **PARTICIPANT:**  Notes here

**MODERATOR: **Great, well thank you so much again, and enjoy the rest of your day!**

