Stakeholder Meeting Notes

10/18/17

Attendees Randall, Alex, Rob Reynolds, Paul Shute, Stephanie Li, Bruce


Stakeholder visibility meeting

Intro and context of design sprint work to stakeholders. 

We officially kicked off our design phase with the goal to complete usability research and finalize design direction and prototype. 

We want to continue our collaboration with stakeholders for this and upcoming phases of work as we build and launch our pilot for a veteran facing 526 turbo tax tool. (claims for increase)

This will consist of a weekly cadence to allow the team to share their work/ insights and receive feedback.

Rob stated that he wants to make sure business requirements are taken into account before we build. Randall stated one of the goals of this collaborative effort is we can work together on a design prototype before coding starts.Rob worried about a model where business requirements are not taken into account and this is not revealed until delivery.

Alex started the presentation with the market analysis research. Finding patterns of effective tools in the wild that we can leverage.

Turbo Tax:
Triage
Data Interation
Conditional Logic

USAA:
Contextual Help
Document Upload

Figo:
Document Handling

Doodle:
Scheduling

- Triage conversation lead to some concern about change management and how to guide Veterans to and from eBen depending of their specific claim type....What is most elegant way to kick back to eben if not claim for increase?

- Conversation about how a submitted claim is tagged. Eben vs Vets.gov. What is the source?

Data Integration - A document handling tool with a staging environment generated excitement tempered by mvp scope. Talked about naming documents and need to follow up if this is useful and how to standardize. 
 
- We talked about the relative merits of metadata and it's impact on rVSR work.

- Contextual help generated questions about business and legal requirements. Need to ensure that legal requirements (questions asked, format, etc) are accounted for in our new flow. 

- Scheduling got a lot of interest and is complex. follow up deep dive needs to occur to undertand the exact process and how we can leverage to build a better more streamlined experience. We presented a few solutions that are most likely not technically feasible for MVP. Hopefully, we can leverage some of it. 

Presented WIP screens (prototype)
   1. Comments were generally clustered around similar topics as above
   2. The scheduling section validated the flags cases mentioned within our team earlier in the day. 

- We need start and end dates for treatments. 

 Actions
- Continue close coordination with stakeholders to dig into each specific area:
triage, evidence gathering, document upload, scheduling, etc
- Get more info on Taxonomy and DBQ recommendations

Overall: Well received by stakeholders

We also provided same presentation to internal dsva claims team prior to meeting with stakeholders. 
