# Conversation Guide: Personalization 2.0 Service Member Interviews — Participant 1

## Intro (2 minutes)

Thanks for joining us today! My name is Samara and I also have some colleagues on the line observing and taking notes. Today we're going to talk about your service member to veteran transition. 

Before we start, a few things I want to mention:

- **This entire session should take about 45 – 60 minutes.** I want to be sure not to keep you much longer, so I may occasionally prompt you with the next question or topic.
- **In this session, we want to hear your honest opinions.** If you've had a frustrating experience or find something we show you to be confusing, we want to hear about it. Your honest insights help us to figure out how we can improve the VA experience, and we will not be offended by any opinions you express.
- **If for any reason and at any time you want to stop the session, please let me know.** You will not be penalized in any way if we need to stop.
- **Are you comfortable if I record my screen and audio as we talk today?** For this session, I will ask you to show us how you complete some tasks. We use the recordings to confirm that we have captured your opinions accurately, and just so you know, we delete these recordings a few weeks after the session. Do you have any questions about this? Are you ok if we record today?

*Share screen*

## Warm-up Questions (2 minutes)

**OK, let's get started.**

1. **First, can you tell me a little bit about yourself? (If stuck, prompt to ask about service experience, where they live, their work)**.

- I am 43, in the Marine Corps for 25 years. Wife, 3 kids. I start retirement in a week and a half. 

**OK, now I am going to turn on the recording.**

*Start recording.*

2. **Have you received your separation orders from the military? When are you scheduled to leave the service?**

- Yes, that is correct. (Samara's notes: Retiring in 1.5 weeks)

3. **Have you completed the Transition Assistance Program (TAP) yet?**

- Yes, I have.

## Service member needs (10 – 15 minutes)

1. **What challenges, questions, and concerns are you facing as you transition from the military back to civilian life?**

- Most of what I am concerns or the unknown, is how dealing with the VA will work. I will get a paycheck from retirement and how will I schedule my VA appointments, disability and appointments. I know I have to do it, so I know how to do. So, I just want to hurry up and get there. I have to experience it to know how it works. I don’t like knowing what I don’t know so I have been talking to individuals that have retired to help me through this process. 

**Clarification — Repeated back what he said to make sure I heard correctly**

- Yes.  For me I will be living 4 hours from the nearest VA clinic. I have to coordinate that, and I hear about long wait lines. I will be frustrated if I have to drive 4 hours then wait long lines for an appointment. 

**Any concerns besides the VA?** 

- Outside of the VA, so finding a job. Part of what I am trying to figure out is my disability rating because it provides extra income. Some job offers are higher than others but will be traveling a lot. I know I need a job, but I don’t know what I will need to do for it yet. 

2. **Of these, what are the most important issues/challenges you're facing?**

- They are all equally weighted, but they all depend on the financial aspect of it, so I need direction. I can take a job, but I want to make sure that I take the right one. (Samara's notes: his concerns are that he doesn't know what his retirement/disability pay will be, which factors into what job he will take because he can take a lower paying job closer to home if the VA compensation makes up the difference from what he might make at a higher paying job).

3. **Have you been able to start addressing [these issues]? If so, how are you going about addressing them, or how might you address these challenges once you separate?**

- Most of it I have to wait until I am official out. I put myself our there with resumes with all types of business to see the opportunities. I looked at the GI Bill and looking at all of the jobs that will allow me to pursue education and further my career. 
	
**Clarification (not sure what I asked)**

- Both. Most of the time, I spent most of my last 6 months focusing on my transition to take care of everything, get my family moved, get in all of my medical done, seminar, and do my turnover with the individual that is replacing me. I have been focused on that, so I haven’t been able to focus on what occurs 2 weeks from now. 

**TAP/Appointments — What did they cover in TAP re: VA benefits?**

- It was all health related. I sat down with my VSO to do my final physical and there were things I had to address. It required more time and took days to do. With the VA appointment, once you submit you package its about 6 months prior to your EAS (end of service) then they send you a lot of packets with questionnaires. It was about 2 weeks of straight appointments and did a great job with putting it all together for me but still many days of appointments. 

**Clarification — Were all the appointments part of the VA disability compensation claim process?**

- Yes. All are related to the VA for my disability. Correct. 

**How did you know to work with the VSO to process your claim?**

- Most of it was the notes I took and the questions asked during TAP and talking to individuals that have recently retired. I met with the DAV rep to get an assessment. He said 6 months out, I wasn’t sure when that started. I though it was from 6 months from my terminal not EAS. What they told me the process, and I had everything ready so I could turn in my package to the VSO. 

**Clarification — What is the difference between terminal and EAS?**

- EAS is the retirement date the last official day on active duty. Terminal leave I can take in conjunction how many days prior to EAS until my true retirement date.  It is from the EAS, my actual retirement date. My last day is November 30th. April 1st was when I could submit it instead of March 1st as I thought. 

(Samara's notes — this means that he was able to submit for disability 6 months prior to his end of service, his official last day in the service)

**Have you done any research online, or only worked with VSOs/people you know?**

- Both have been the people from the organization and online. Trying to figure out my retirement pay and where the nearest VA hospital is that I will be living to know what will be available. I have not been able to look into ebenefits. It makes me nervous not knowing. I would have liked to see if there were a class to assist and train me on that. 

4. **How could the VA help you address these issues/challenges, if at all?**

- I don’t think I have received much from the VA, the VA website didn't produce much. My friends and TAP have taught me alone. I have not gotten anything from the VA. 

## TAP (10 minutes)

1. **Can you tell me about your experience in TAP?**

- I have gone to 4 different sessions, 3 executive session for individuals that are retiring. I went multiple times to get as much information as possible. The VA reps there walked us through some but not much. They did provide some things, but I wish there were classes to take. In that process I picked up more things each time. What I was frustrated with, the 4 different classes on 4 different bases. All of them were different. Some have a different focus or a better rep. I picked up more from each one because there were different things were available or different mentor sessions. The more you know the better.

2. **What did you learn about receiving benefits at the VA?**

- Not really much, the last one I was shown to use the locator to find the locations. I wish they helped with appointments. 
- Mostly their disability, how to get it done. How to do appointments and make sure that ebenfits login was done correctly. The disability process was there but not a lot. Mentioned before my situation is different I am nowhere near a base, so I am in a completely different situation.

3. **What went well re: TAP?**

- Hearing from former service members about their experiences and the educational options are. Boots to truckers, Boots to teachers, resumes or mock interviews. Getting critics on everything and how to use a cover letter and what to do after a resume was god.

4. **How could TAP be improved?**

- I wish it was more streamlined. Like I said, I went to 4 different seminars over 5 years and not a single one was the same. The basics, yes, but the focus was different. It is the quality of the briefers and what they are willing to talk about but limited to what they can provide. I wish there were additional classes that could be available. 
- It is hard because I did not know the instructor, they go through their briefs they don’t look at it as helpful. Some don’t want to learn, and they should be there to help such as DMO and the pay sections. Some are as effective but each time I went to the course we had people that were at those

**How could TAP better prepare you to transition veteran life?**

- A lot has to do with the VA, unfortunately I don’t know much about the VA. Like how I can check the status of a claim. A friend of mine assisted me to figure it out. I don’t know how to do that it can be very frustrating, during the claim process they may need additional information and had to go to multiple different sites to see what was going on. The lack of information was frustrating. 

**What do you want them to focus on?**

- Where to or how to better navigate the websites, ebenefits, my pay and all of the sites. If there were a way to know to receive more in depth classes that would be helpful. 

## Digital/VA.gov (10 – 15 minutes)

**Now I'm going to pass you keyboard and mouse controls so I can see how you'd research some of the things we have talked about. PLEASE RECORD EXACT STEPS THEY TAKE AND WHAT SITES/PAGES THEY GO TO**

1. **Can you show me how you would research [benefits they are interested in] online?**
	
- (Google.com)- (*Googles "VA disability claims process"*)
- I use google a lot so I look at the key words and I can look up claims then I scroll down and see if I can find what I asked for. (*Using "People also ask" quick answers shown in an accordion on the search results page*) Here it tells me the days it takes. I can click on there’s for basic. I can look at the rate of disability claims denied but I would go to how to check a status. 
- (*Clicks into search result on cck-law.com*). I click on it if it looks like a trustworthy site and read it to see if it could answer my question. This is where, right here I did not know this before. It will tell you that you are awarded because I didn’t know if it would be emailed or mailed. It takes 3 days or a week they would tell you. Some say they get a call. You have to make sure your phone number is correct. I would want to look at this because what if I need to do an appeal. 
- (*Goes back to search resuls and clicks into results on hadit.com*) I don’t know if I would click on this prior or not to fined out the ebenefits status messages information. I would want to know if they were approved how I would do this. 

2. **Can you tell me why you did not go to any of the VA websites to find this information?**

- Anytime I try to do it at the VA website (*Samara's notes: he did not specify which website, and it became clear later that he has only been to the new VA.gov once very recently to check claims*) I have not found it easy to use or not found out what I need or log in to multiple accounts. Most sites don’t let me do it at work and want to send it to my email because my work network won’t let me check it. I don’t have data on my phone so I can’t to it that way. I have never had a quick easy answer form the VA. Previously I have gone to ebenefits. What is frustrating is that the VA.gov and ebenefits is not links. I do the basics on the va.gov website. 

## VA.gov

**(Samara opened up VA.gov) Can you show me how you would find Disability information on VA.gov?**

- (*On homepage*) I would look at the how page and click check appeals/claims status. (*Clicks the Claims & appeals status tool link*)(*Scrolls down and sees information on different login types*) Again, it is additional questions and I don’t know what a premium account is (Samara's note: Premium account = reference to MHV premimium account, which is the type of MHV account someone would need to access the claim tool). 

**Did they talk about login in during TAP**

- Only ebenefits page (Samara's note: The participant had been to TAP most recently in Oct 2018, prior to the new VA.gov launch and prior to TAP guiding people to VA.gov). I can see it is submitted but makes me go to the VA.gov and have to create a new login when I already have an account on ebenefits. Correct. Most recent was October of last year. 
- I went on here (VA.gov) the other day to see my claim and saw the projected completion date ad there were no knew request for information. They send new additional medical packets, the lady on the phone told me they needed to change my appointments but didn’t tell me they needed new information. I started on ebenefits and my friend was telling me about this and where to go and then it took me to the va.gov site which was more in depth. I have been on a couple of weeks ago. 
- Claim status tool- it was helpful, but I was frustrated because I didn’t know understand why I did not see an email that the new website or didn’t get word. Why they didn’t link the sites. I don’t like how I had to create new accounts for basically the same website. 

4. **Can you tell me what your ideal first-time experience online would look like as a service member transitioning to life as a veteran? How could we make this experience as seamless as possible?**

- Is there a walk through to the websites, like a point and click to see what is available and what is provided? It would assist in properly navigating the website, it would be the most helpful for me. 
- Starting from here (claim status page*), sign in to create account it would have a dropdown and then walk through how to do it such as fill prescription or make an appointment. If there are classes or walk throughs to find it if that makes sense. Yes, being able to navigate the websites. 

**Can you show me how you'd find a hospital near you?** 

- I don’t know, well right there (*finds it in navigation*) Find a VA Location and click on that. (*Puts in zip code where he will be*). I know this is the closest one that is a true VA hospital, but I would have to look at the closest clinic. What does specialty care mean for them? See the long times for appointments is frustrating. It is helpful to know and if they can do most of my things at the clinic that is helpful. 
- Trying to find out how I can make an appointment would be helpful. 

**Can you show me how you would check your prescription status?**

- I saw that on the main page (*navigates back to homepage*). What I don’t know is that when I make the appointment will the facility get it then how long will it take. 

## Staging — My VA Dashboard

1. **Take a look over this page. What are your overall impressions?**

- So here it tells me all of my benefits, it allows me to click find benefits and it allowed me to start my claim. It shows me how to use my GI Bill, it tells me I am enrolled into health care, has a section to get records, I don’t know what the VA letters are. 
It is like a profile page and shows me the basics of my account. 

2. **How do you think you, personally, might use this page as a service member who is getting started with the VA for the first time?**

- I would use it a lot, this is what I am hoping to use. Without me doing this study with you I would not have known where to find it. I would hope if I started my process I could go here or when they call they would tell me to go here. This is where most of my basic questions are right here. This is a very helpful page. 

3. **What information is *not* on here that would be helpful to you as a service member who is getting started with the VA for the first time?**
	
- I would have to do more searches because not seeing the whole thing and not knowing what is next. Unfortunately, the only thing I would want to look at is how to make an additional claim or change or using my VSO as an advocate for me. I would have to go to that organization's page. I would also have to look at the appeals and claims page for additional information. 

4. **In addition to anything we may have already discussed, what would you change about this page to make it something that would help you more easily manage your onboarding experience at the VA?**
	

5. **Anything else that could be improved?**

- Just I wish there would be a way that went to TRS prior to this coming out would be told about the change. It would make life a lot easier or see that the change occurred and get notified. How many veterans/service members didn’t know about this change. This needs to be put out there for everyone. 

## Post-Task Interview (2 minutes)

1. **In addition to anything we have already discussed, what else can the VA do to help you seamlessly transition into life as a veteran, both online and offline?**

- I really can’t at this time, I don’t know enough at this time to know the questions to ask. 

## Thank-You and Closing (1 minute)

Well we really appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us today. Your feedback is so helpful to us as we continue to work on the site and make sure it really works for Veterans.

As a thank you for your participation, we'd like to send you a $50 thank-you check. This will be sent by Perigean, the people thast recruited you to talk to us today. They'll work with you to figure out the right place to send it.

Any questions before we sign off?

Great, well thank you so much again, and enjoy the rest of your day!
