# Conversation Guide: Personalization 2.0 Service Member Interviews — Participant 2

## Warm-up Questions (2 minutes)

OK, let's get started.

1. **First, can you tell me a little bit about yourself? (If stuck, prompt to ask about service experience, where they live, their work).**

- I was active duty for 9 years not in nation guard ready to separate, just graduated college, infantry for 9 years and public affairs for 6 years. 

2. **Have you received your separation orders from the military? When are you scheduled to leave the service?**

- Active yes and national guard no.
- (Samara's notes: He left active duty in 2014 and is in NG now but has not finished his time in NG)

3. **Have you completed the Transition Assistance Program (TAP) yet?**

- Yes.  June of 2014. 

4. **Are you planning to separate from the national guard?**

- Yes, but it was explained that we do not receive separation orders we just stop going. 
- Process different: as it has been explained I just stop going and it doesn’t make sense because I have gear and if there is then I will be the first and no one knows what’s going on.

## Service member needs (10 – 15 minutes)

1. **What challenges, questions, and concerns are you facing as you transition from the military back to civilian life?**

- The biggest part of TAP was spending three days how to fill out a resume, dress for a job interview and a quick 1 hour run down of all benefits the va offers. No practical skills like managing finances, like grown up things that you are not responsible for in the military. The practical things like college applications were here’s how you fill out a form, not there how you boil down your skills to two pages, the resume has the skills and different bases you were at. 

2. **We'll talk about TAP later. I'm interested now in what concerns you were dealing with then you separated.**

- So my biggest concerns was what will I do for health care and money to continue to live once I am out. I learned that the briefing that I could use the VA for health care for 4-5 years. I was infantry and public affairs, I focused then on how I start the GI bill and start school. Biggest concerns were health care and what I do for a paycheck. 

3. **Of these, what was the most important issue/challenge?**

- The biggest was how do I pay the bills once I get out. It was the scariest thing. 

4. **How did you address these challenges?**

- I just went to my Army education office and asked them what I needed to do to start the GI Bill. They weren’t much help. I ended up going to the school I wanted to attend, and they walked me through the process. 
- Healthcare: I was planning on getting out and becoming full civilian, we were required to sit through a recruitment or reenlistment with a national guard and reserve recruiter. It was individual and what their job was, my job has a 20k signing bonus that included insurance and my girlfriend talked me into signing on for the national guard and the bonus would assist while the GI Bill started due to the stories of how long it its. Also, the healthcare. I ended up doing that and it was a terrible mistake because the GI bill payments started and after I signed up I found out the VA would cover my health care for 4-5 years when I got out. 
- Clarification: Until the national guard brief the plan was to use the GI Bill and I crunched the numbers that if I set aside the GI Bill payments I could cover the months that I was not in school but the worry of the payments not coming in the first 6 months to a year is what made me do the national guard.  

5. **How could the VA have helped you address these issues/challenges, if at all?**

- They could have had a website that was easier to use that had more then the generic information and a phone system where you can talk to a person or don’t have to wait two hours to talk to a person. They could have done anything other then what they did. 

6. **What would your ideal scenario have been?**

- Ideal: I mean even if it were just a link [on the website] that said "separating: this is how we help" and have a page and links that are categorized that it was easy to navigate. Or apply for different situations or types of people that are getting out. Like going to school click here, going right into a job click here, something like that. Their website is, I have never been able to get on and find what I need to go there and be like oh that’s what I need. Right now, I get about 3 emails a day since they have gone through their new letters about nothing that applies to me or anyone else I Know. 
- Clarification: No, my assumption that I was told from people and experience with the VA they would be unreliable with what I needed and if I have to rely on them wholly I need to have a backup plan for when they fail. 

**Now I want to talk a little bit more about VA benefits.**

**(Note: we didn't go through this section since this person has already set up benefits**)

1. **How high of a priority is getting set up to receive benefits through the VA?**
2. **Have you thought about what benefits you are interested in receiving from the Department of Veterans Affairs?**
3. **Have you started researching these benefits?**
4. **What are the main questions and concerns you have about receiving benefits through the VA?**
5. **How can the VA help you answer these questions and concerns?**

## TAP (10 minutes)

1. **Can you tell me about your experience in TAP?**

- The biggest part of TAP was spending three days how to fill out a resume, dress for a job interview and a quick 1 hour run down of all benefits the va offers. No practical skills like managing finances, like grown up things that you are not responsible for in the military. The practical things like college applications were here’s how you fill out a form, not there how you boil down your skills  to two pages, the resume has the skills and different bases you were at.
- That pretty much covers it. 

2. **What did you learn about receiving benefits at the VA?**

- It was something like a bit about healthcare and then you know how in elementary school you had to do a book report and you didn't have time to read all of it? That’s how it was when they did the brief, it was like that hour was up and it was back to everything else. It was a slide with contact information that you could go to this website.

3. **What went well re: TAP?**

- Nothing, to be honest it was a waste of time. You are expected to work every day until you get out so it just creates more hassle because leadership expect you to work and you have to go to these classes that aren’t useful for you. 

4. **How could TAP be improved?**

- Honestly I have no idea. Just make it relevant. 
- I didn’t find it helpful.

5. **How could it better prepare you to transition veteran life?**

- I guess what I mentioned in the beginning — transition even now is just basic adult functions that you never develop or have to worry about, the basic things like budgeting, planning grocery shopping for the week that normal adults develop as they grow from teens to young adults to adults moving into their first apartment and jobs where it is developed slowly over time. We are just thrown out expecting to know it, there is always someone that you can call or a website that can help you, you can google everything to figure it out. I don’t need three days of a slide show that gives me websites I can go to. Give me relevant information. 

6. **How could it more effectively prepare you to receive benefits through the VA?**

- I don’t know it could have, it went through all of the basic overview of all of the benefits that can be generally applied to everyone separating but for the most part at the time that’s not stuff that you could just sign up for you had to go someone to do it. I had to apply for the GI Bill through my school and go to the VA center. The only way to get you disability application approved was to go to the American legion or VFW to fill it out for you, so I don’t know. The only thing it told you was the things you already knew about. 

**(Note: The interview ended here because the participant was having technical difficulties that prevented us from doing the screensharing portion of the interview.**)
