# Conversation Guide: Personalization 2.0 Service Member Interviews — Participant 3

## Warm-up Questions (2 minutes)

OK, let's get started.

1. **First, can you tell me a little bit about yourself? (If stuck, prompt to ask about service experience, where they live, their work).**

- I am in my 22nd year in the Navy as a helicopter pilot, working at Navair since 2011. 
- Retiring next summer.
- A wife, 3 daughters. 

2. **Have you received your separation orders from the military? When are you scheduled to leave the service?**

- I will end in September in 2020, I am going to start the class here shortly. 

3. **Have you completed the Transition Assistance Program (TAP) yet?**

- No, I have not. 

## Service member needs (10 – 15 minutes)

1. **What challenges, questions, and concerns are you facing as you transition from the military back to civilian life?**

- It is the first time I have had to apply for a job since high school. Big part is making the transition smooth, so my wife and kids do not see a change with healthcare and things like that. I need to work on that in the next year. Like VA and health benefits is a huge part of that. 

2. **Can you tell me what you mean by "making the transition smooth"?**

- Yea, I think part of it, one thing you may not be familiar with as a pilot even if I have not been flying we need to keep a clean bill of health incase we do fly. They have nagging things that don’t get reported, but since I am getting out I have to start talking about the issues I have. Trying to knock out those things that have happened over the past 22 years. I know that’s a huge part of retirement and VA benefits. The flight doctors are used to individuals getting retired. I have to go get a sleep apnea test now since we couldn’t get it don’t because we would not get to fly. Making sure my kids and my wife’s things all transfer over as going to Tricare for life. 

3. **Can you tell me what you are trying to make smooth for your family?**

- Their healthcare and anything that they have been getting seen for, braces. Etc. to ensure that is taken care of. So, we know exactly what we are covered for and not. 

4. **Of these, what are the most important issues/challenges you're facing?**

- All are equally important. I think another change is being a service member.  You get everything done and now I will be in the regular routine of getting that done instead of just going to see the doctor. Change is hard and when you have been used to it for so long its hard, change in healthcare, where your life, new work, trying to plan ahead as much as we can is what we want. 

5. **Have you been able to start addressing [these issues]? If so, how are you going about addressing them, or how might you address these challenges once you separate?**

- One I know I may need to get foot surgery prior to getting out, I have been to the doctor and going to the specialty appointments so it can be done prior to getting out. Making sure my record is complete and ready to go so I don’t have gaps or doubts. 

6. **Have you started looking into anything at the VA?**

- I have not, I think I need to go to the TAP class within the next two months. I think that I will have a much better idea and basis to start digging into the questions. I have heard the good, bad and horror stories and you need to get the package in and or it won’t meet your end date. I think that the things you have to get done are well advertised. 

7. **What do you expect to learn in TAP?**

- To learn most about what I need to do to get out and I hope to learn about the programs and process that are for me once I am a retiree within the VA spaces.

8. **How could the VA help you address these issues/challenges, if at all?**

- You may have it already but have not poked around the website. In the military we use checklists, I think a retiree from the VA would be useful with dates and maybe lessons learned. Like hey when you download this is the best way to do so. 

9. **Can you tell me more about what would be on the checklist?** 

- Key days like do this before here, or retirement do this and complete it by three months and give hard deadlines. 

**Now I want to talk a little bit more about VA benefits.**

1. **How high of a priority is getting set up to receive benefits through the VA?**

- It is pretty high. I think that there has been a lot of good benefit and efforts that many people don’t even know about until later on. Like my dad is getting VA benefits as a prior service to assist with the prescription costs. I don’t think he realized it until he sat with a VA rep. There are benefits out there that people don’t even realize are out there. 

2. **Will you be receiving TRICARE?**

- Yes, because I will be a retiree.

3. **Have you thought about what other benefits you are interested in receiving from the Department of Veterans Affairs?**

- Well I am using the post 9/11 Gi Bill with my daughter. 
- I would say one thing is interesting getting a disability rating that could have a negative meaning. Like you are just claiming something instead that what you have incurred disability then you should take advantage of because you were injured during service and insured that you have the medical coverage. There’s the difference between, I think sometimes there has been an attitude that someone is trying to get something for free, as I can attest as I go to physical therapy every Thursday there are pilots getting their neck and back looked at. 
- (*Went to VA.gov homepage*) I just went to the main website for the VA and there is not really an easy here you are getting ready to get out of the military either retiring or getting after 10 years. There is not a quick a dirty here’s where you do, and this is what you need to go. 
- Yes, and there’s another (something). It has VA healthcare and benefits but there is no this is what you benefits are. The GI Bill comparison tool is great but what are the other things you could be eligible for? There is no quick and dirty "this is what you may be qualified for."

4. **Have you started researching these benefits?**

- Some people have uses. I am in an area where a lot of people retire and stay so it’s mostly been a lot of word of mouth. A lot of discovery and finding. I found this benefit by digging not it was laying there for everyone to see. 

5. **What are the main questions and concerns you have about receiving benefits through the VA?**

- Really it comes down to the process — what do I need to do and what are the problems that are normally ran into?

6. **How can the VA help you answer these questions and concerns?**

- Yeah I would say whether it is a check list or part of it doing it on the website you have disability healthcare. There should be a section where you are getting ready to get out with check lists, what to apply for and how to apply so when someone goes to the website it is right there for them. 

(**Note: Didn't go through TAP section since he hadn't been through TAP; Didn't got through screensharing portion because he couldn't download GTM**)

## Post-Task Interview (2 minutes)

1. **In addition to anything we have already discussed, what else can the VA do to help you seamlessly transition into life as a veteran, both online and offline?**

- I think I am good right now. 
