# Conversation Guide: Personalization 2.0 Service Member Interviews: Participant 4

## Warm-up Questions (2 minutes)

1. **First, can you tell me a little bit about yourself? (If stuck, prompt to ask about service experience, where they live, their work).**

- Been in the army for 25 years, about to retire. 
- Communications and IT person. 
- Bachelors and Masters degree. 
- Just trying to figure out what I want to do when I retire. 

2. **Have you received your separation orders from the military? When are you scheduled to leave the service?**

- Yes, I retire December 31st. 

3. **Have you completed the Transition Assistance Program (TAP) yet?**

- I have. 

**Service member needs (10 – 15 minutes)**

1. **What challenges, questions, and concerns are you facing as you transition from the military back to civilian life?**

- (In reference to TAP) There is a lot of information that is thrown at you. There is a lot of information put out about the VA but not specifics and when you ask questions they don’t want to give you answers. I don’t know if they don’t know or if it is contract out, they don’t have information that is needed. I am started the VA medical process next week, the VSOs don’t work for the VA but don’t want to tell you much about the process. I am trying to find out the process. The biggest issue now is using the Home loan right now. I used the education assistance in the past as well, that’s about it. 

2. **So you have started going through the claims process?**

- Yeah or having to go talk to someone else and when told to talk to other people they don’t have answers and it repeats. 

3. **Of these, what are the most important issues/challenges you're facing?**

- Honestly, just the claims process but I am starting that now and have all of my appointments next week. The QBC guys called me Friday the 9th of August and told me that they were trying to schedule my appointments for next week when I was out of town. When I was checking on what was going on they just left me a voicemail about my appointments. And I have another appointment Wednesday for retirement, and they will only change it once. 

4. **What kind of research have you done?** 

- I looked on the website and the manual that was given out during TAP. Looked at the disability claims, pay and medical care. A couple things I just need clarification on. I have sleep apnea, I guess the VA will send me out that equipment. Just those things, as far a knee braces and medications. 

5. **Have you been able to start addressing [these issues]? If so, how are you going about addressing them, or how might you address these challenges once you separate?**

- Just have a one stop shop to find the information that you are looking for. I can look online, and I don’t mind it but most of the time I like to be able to just call and ask how to do that without being on the phone for an hour and changed people. 

6. **How could the VA help you address these issues/challenges, if at all?**

**Now I want to talk a little bit more about VA benefits.**

1. **How high of a priority is getting set up to receive benefits through the VA?**

- A high priority. 

2. **Have you thought about what benefits you are interested in receiving from the Department of Veterans Affairs?**

- Disability, home loan, I have a home loan now and a prior one where I sold the house not to long ago, education benefits that I transferred some to my son and I used some of it when I was in the reserves so I don’t know how much he will get. 

- (Samara asked some sort of clarification but IDK what) Well, it depends on the benefits that are available. I will have to look into that, I don’t know what all is available. I know there is Voc Rehab, but I don’t know what all they have that I need. 

3. **Have you started researching these benefits?**

- I looked on the website and the manual that was given out during TAP. Looked at the disability claims, pay and medical care. A couple things I just need clarification on. I have sleep apnea, I guess the VA will send me out that equipment. Just those things, as far a knee braces and medications. 

4. **What are the main questions and concerns you have about receiving benefits through the VA?**

- Just working through the process, I don’t know any other questions for the benefits. 

5. **How can the VA help you answer these questions and concerns?**

## TAP (10 minutes)

1. **Can you tell me about your experience in TAP?**

- It is okay. It’s a general program, in my opinion it would be better if it were focus more on what individuals were planning on doing once out of the military. Some instructors are good as far as the DOL, it depends where you go to TAP at. I have been to Fort Myer, the instructor for DOL was good and the VA instruct at Fort Belvoir was better. It is not that beneficial. 

2. **What did you want them to talk about?**

- I mean I am looking at small business, so I have been exploring those. Once of the boots to business, some other HireOurHeros, just trying to figure out which way I want to go, either start my own business or work.

3. **What did you learn about receiving benefits at the VA?**

- Just a brief overview, they don’t go into a lot of detail on how it works or go talk to a VSO or other organizations. I have looked online but not a lot due to being busy.

4. **What went well re: TAP?**

- The weeklong program was 50 percent effective but the boots to business was better. It needs to be a better structured program to figure out what you want to do.

5. **What was effective?**

- The basic skills on the resume and giving the basic information out to people and where they need to go. People need to go to TAPS earlier at least a year for further out. I did that and it helped me out. 

6. **How could TAP be improved?**

- Like I said, I guess continue the program somewhat what is now but have other people there to help guide and mentor to explore what you are looking at doing is one of the biggest things I would say.
Help you focus on where you might want to be either small business or a certain career field. What you need to focus attentions on such as skills, education and certification. 

7. **How could it better prepare you to transition veteran life?**

- The same thing I just said. I don’t have anything else. That’s why I say a mentorship program instead of a basic overview. 

8. **How could it more effectively prepare you to receive benefits through the VA?**

(**Note: We didn't go through the screensharing portion of the call because the participant couldn't download GTM**)
