## Combining profile & account usability testing

[Jonathan Nelson]

*[Participant #2] [4/6/2020] [1 PM EST]*


## Intro (5 minutes)

**Moderator:Hello? Can you hear me? (no response). Hi [name redacted]? Can you hear me?**

**Participant**: Good afternoon. Sorry for the delay. I was having difficulty logging in. 

**Moderator: Thanks for joining us today! My name is Tressa and I also have some colleagues on the line observing and taking notes. Today we're going to talk about the profile on the VA website.**

Before we start, a few things I want to mention:

- **This entire session should take about an hour.** I want to be sure not to keep you much longer, so I may occasionally prompt you with the next question or topic.
- **You'll be interacting with a prototypes and a demo tool.** This is a demo tool that may not function exactly the way you expect. Some areas of the prototype will be clickable, and some will not. Since it's a demo, none of your actions will affect your actual VA information or benefits. At some points we will be using the mobile version of the website for this study - so just use your mouse like you'd use your finger on a phone. Also, all of these pages were made using a completely made up person with completely fake information. This will not affect your account or information in any way.
- **In this session, we want to hear your honest opinions.** We are not testing your ability. We just want to improve these tools to better meet Veteran's needs. I will not be offended by any opinions you express, and I welcome your feedback.

 **Participant:** Okay. 
 
 **Moderator:** 
 
- **If for any reason and at any time you want to stop the session, please let me know.** 
- **Are you comfortable if I record my screen and audio as we talk today?** We use the recordings to confirm that we have captured your opinions accurately. The recordings are destroyed after we complete analysis, and none of your comments will be attributed to you directly. 

**Participant:** Yes 

**Moderator: We use the recordings to confirm that we have captured your opinions accurately. The recordings are destroyed after we complete analysis, and none of your comments will be attributed to you directly.**

- If yes: **Once I start recording, I am going to confirm that you are ok with me recording this session once more.** 
    
 **Participant:** Yes, I am. 
 
**Moderator: [Start recording] And just to verify, umm, are you comfortable if I record my screen and audio as we talk today?**

**Participant** Yes, I am 

**Moderator: Great. Okay.**

## Warm-up Questions

**Moderator: So, before we look at the website, I just have a few warm-up questions for you. So, uh, if you can tell ll me about your service history?**

**Participant:** Umm, I was activity durty in the Army from 2013 until 2016. When I left active duty when I was in the reserve, National Guard ever since. 
 
 
**Moderator: Great. Have you ever been to VA.gov?** 

**Participant:** Yes
 
**Moderator: Great. And how often do you say you use it on average?
**

**Participant:** Ummm, fairly infrequently. I’ve used it, ummm, mainly for GI Bill stuff. Umm, but in terms of frequency, I would say, maybe twice a quarter. 
 
**Moderator: Okay, And you mentioned you use it for GI Bill stuff. What other things do you do on the website?** 

**Participant:** Ummm, I have a VA service connection as well, so when I initially filled my service connection, I filled my claim through VA.gov.

**ModeratorOkay, cool. Do you remember what forms you used to do that at all?**

**Participant:** For filling a service connection? 

**Moderator: Mmmhmm**

**Participant:** Umm, I have no idea. But I know it said in on the forms. 

**Moderator: Cool. No worries. Have you ever used VA.gov to update your personal information?**

**Participant:** Yes. 

**Moderator: Great. Can you tell me about this experience?**

**Participant:** Umm, so at some point VA.gov was transferred from what I believe was Ebenefits, and I had logged in, I had moved from DC to Philly, so I think there was a column on the left hand side that has like personal, or my information, or something like that, and I updated it, and to my knowledge I think it updated it throughout, you know, everything your using VA.gov for but I am not sure. 

**Moderator: Okay, cool. That sounds great. Just one more question; Have you connected any outside apps to your VA health records at all?**

**Participant:** No, I have not. 

**Moderator: Okay, cool.**

## Screenshare

**Moderator: Okay, we are going to go ahead and get started. So, I'm going to ask you to go to VA.gov on your browser and I will also send it here in the chat just in case.**  

**Participant:** Alrighty. 

**Moderator: Once you have it pulled up, will you share your screen with me? Click the "Share" button in Zoom. if you can see that at all?**

**Participant:** Okay, yeah. Just go to VA.gov first 

[Participant starts sharing screen]

**Moderator: Great.**

**Participant:** Okay. 

**Moderator: Perfect. For these exercises we would like to simulate a mobile experience so if you could make your browser screen narrow like a phone screen.**

**Participant:** Okay 

**Moderator: Great**

**Participant:** Good? 

**Moderator: Perfect. Yeah, that will work. Cool, while we are doing this if you can try to move a bit slower than you normally would on a website and speak through your actions. Information shown will not reflect any of your actual information.**

**Participant:** Okay

**Moderator: Great**


## First Task: Wayfinding and profile navigation (Mobile View) (20 minutes)

**Moderator: Here is a scenario we can walk through. So, you have recently moved and you've come to the VA website because you need to update your mailing address. Can you show me what you would do to change your mailing address.**

**Participant:** So, I would look for the sign in button, looks like it as top but I will just check, so yeah. I would click sign in. 

**Moderator: Okay, so now I am going to send you a link to a prototype seeing as you have to sign in here and that will just be in the chat.**

**Participant:** I actually can’t…

**Moderator: Down at the bottom of the Zoom…**

**Participant:** I got it. 

**Moderator: Okay, perfect.**

**Participant:** So, just copy that link in my browser?

**Moderator: Perfect. You can go ahead and make that normal screen if you’d like**

**Participant: Okay.**

**Moderator:  Okay, since you will need to be logged-in for this task, we're going to use a prototype with fake information “Kim Washinton” Just as a reminder - all of the information in this prototype is completely made up.**

**Participant:** Sure.

**Moderator: Just a reminder - you are trying to update your mailing address.**

**Participant:** So, I would imagine that it would be under my name, Kim, and then, I would click profile, and scrolling down it has personal and contact information, ummm, There is a “how do I update it” but since I know, right underneath of it says “address.” Did we say it was the address information that I was changing? 

**Moderator: Yes**

**Participant:** Okay, so, I would click on the...I would click on both the mailing and the home address if it doesn’t offer a option to do both simultaneously. So, I don’t live on a military base. I would click on the address and it looks like it auto populated. City, state, zip code and I would click update - and it looks like the home address wasn’t changed as well so I would go in and do it both the home address and mailing address. This, for whatever reason, is making me do it again so I will. 

**Moderator: Okay. Oh, okay so that home address isn’t clickable right now but you would go to home address after mailing address you mentioned?**

**Participant: Right.**

**Moderator: And could you just kind of  walk me through why you would do that?**

**Participant:** Umm, I feel like, why would I choose my name first? 

**Moderator: No, why you would go to, umm, home address after mailing address? Would you assume those would both would update?**

**Participant:** I would assume that they would both be the same, but obviously reflects the mailing address of 811 Vermont Ave, which is right across the street from VA central office I believe, but yeah, they are different so I would imagine you would change them both. 

**Moderator:Okay. And okay, great. Do you find that easy or hard to find where your personal information was?**

**Participant:** I found it easy.

**Moderator: Okay, and why would you say that?**

**Participant:** Well, you know it has the normal dropdowns like a search and contact, I just, I would assume that it would be under my own name. You know? Umm, feel like if you need to make any changes to your profile that would include your contact information that would be under your own dropdown or something that either says my info or in this case, my name. 

**Moderator: Okay. If you could go ahead and just scroll through this personal information section. What information would expect to be here and do you notice if anything is missing?**

**Participant:** I would expect to see my date of birth, umm, I don’t know if I would expect to see my gender but...it is there. I would expect to see home address. I would expect to see phone number. Umm, and I was going to say email address but I see that as well so it has everything I would expect to see...in my information, maybe, benefit entitlement, I don’t know if 
that would necessarily be in your personal information but just knowing the entitlements potentially. 

**Moderator: Anything else you can think of that you would want to see?** 

**Participant:** Ummm, I guess it has the service information but I guess the Veteran would know that information so it’s, I just think it’s really contact information I would expect to see and that’s what’s there and some basic PII. 
 
**Moderator: Great. Is it  clear to you on this page what parts of the page are editable?**

**Partpant:** Yes, I mean it says edit underneath of it. And you would have the ability to write text in them and update so, yeah. 

**Moderator: Okay, ummm, any oyster thoughts about the personal and contact information section at all?**

**Partpant:** No. 

**Moderator: Great, from here, could you double check that any payments that you might receive from the VA are going to get to you?**

**Participant:** From here, I would get out of my profile - go home - ah, menu. I don’t think I can...Are you taking about from my own profile? Personal contact information?

**Monderator: Yeah, just from this page that we are on. How do you think you can get to a place where you check to see if the VA is going to send you the right payments?**

**Participant:** I can’t actually click anywhere. But I would click out and try to find it in one of the search, tool boxes or dropdowns. 

**Moderator: Okay, And what are you looking for right here?**

**Participant:** I guess it could be direct deposit but that wouldn’t necessarily tell you when a payment is coming. 

**Moderator: It’s to double check that it’s going to get to you.**

**Participant:** So, are you asking about direct deposit information? 

**Moderator: Ummhmm, yeah**

**Participant:** I don’t really know how I found that. Was it click on profile? Okay, so I would click, I guess I would click of profile and then direct deposit information. 

**Moderator: Okay**

**Participant:** And then payment history would show [inaduble].I think you can go as far back as, I don’t know, a few years. So I click on “view payment history.” 

**Moderator: Okay, great. So I noticed it was a little tough to find the profile menu. Can you, maybe, talk me through your thoughts on that?**

**Participant:** So, I was initially looking, I didn’t know that there was a direct deposit information within your profile. Which it does...it makes complete sense but I think when I used it previously, I don’t remember that being in the profile. There was, I think there was a payment or some other toolbar, so I was initially going to get out of profile section and try and click this home button  to see, you know, I think it was under benefits os something like that. So, but yeah now I know it’s in profile. 

**Moderator: Okay.And where would you expect to find direct deposit information?**

**Participant:** Under a benefits tab or something like that. I don’t think I would have expected to see it in the direct deposit, like in the profile section. 

**Moderator: Okay. So, you already have this profile section open here. Without clicking on any of these sections will you just walk me through them and explain to me what you think each one might be used for?**

**Participant:** Within this? 

**Moderator: Yeah**

**Participant:** So, yeah...personal and contact information we’ve [inadiable]. Your date of birth, your gender, your [inadiable], your email address. Military information, would have your dates of service. I think I’ve only ever seen my active duty stuff. I don’t think I’ve ever seen my reserve component stuff. Direct deposit information, I think, it is self explanatory but it would have your banking information, routing number, your accounting number, and if you need to make any changes, I would imagine [inaudible]. Account security, if you wanted to change your password. I use a DS login so I would get something sent to my, like a 4 digit or 6 digital numerical code sent to my phone, I guess that would for making changes for anything that had to do with that...Connected apps, I guess if you did have, if you wanted to connect your personal health information to VA, I would imagine that would be sort of way to do so with connected apps. 

**Moderator: Okay, If you don’t mind I just want to go back a little bit to direct deposit flow that we talked about before. I know it was a little confusing to find that. Can you maybe talk to me how that might be easier? Where you thought it might be on those pages that you saw?**

**Participant:** I just wasn’t expecting to see direct deposit within the profile section. Frankly, it doesn’t get any easier having that in your profile section, so I think it was, I think it was user error. But I was just expecting to see it in like, you know, in the benefits section, and you can look up, or click under payment, I would imagine if you need to make any changes there would be direct deposit toolbar there as well. 

**Moderator: Okay, cool. If you can go ahead and exit out of that profile menu.**

**Participant:** Yeah, sure. 

**Moderator: And if you can just take a look at this grey bar with your name in it. Can you tell me your thoughts on this?**

**Participant:** This, right here? 

**Moderator: Yes**

**Participant:**  It has the Army emblem and it has  my name and service component. My thoughts, I guess I think it’s cool, umm, I know what branch I served in. I don’t need to see it. It’s cool that it has the Army emblem but it’s also, I don’t need to see that either. But yeah. 

## Second Task: Connected Apps (Mobile View) (10 minutes)

**Moderator: Okay, great. Now we are going to walk through another scenario.  Imagine that last month, you used your iPhone's Health app to share your VA medical records with a non-VA doctor. But now you've decided you want to remove the Health app's access to your VA records. ** 

**Moderator: Could you walk me through how you would do that? **

**Participant:** so I know that there is a profile menu.  I would click on that. And then I would click on connected apps because that’s what I thought you would connect an outside website or app.  So to disconnect I would click on the disconnect button,and “Do you want to disconnect this app?”  I would assume this is the one we were talking about, I would click disconnect. And it looks like it gives you confirmation that the app has been disconnected. And it gives you the date. 

**Moderator: Cool. So, you kind of touched on this a little bit, but just to go over it. Why did you think it would live in the connect app section?**

**Participant:** Well, because it’s third party access, they need to to connected in first place. Umm, so I would imagine you both connect and disconnect in the same place.

**Moderator: Okay.  Do you know if your information from this app is completely removed from VA.gov?**

**Participant:** Ummm, let’s see. No, but that’s because I didn’t read everything thoroughly. It says, “they won’t have access to new information but will still have access to information previously shared.  Remove any stored data. Connect Apple Healthkit and request permanent deletion.” So, to answer your question, no, it was not,  permanently. 

**Moderator: Was anything confusing to you in this process?

**Participant:** No, I didn’t find anything confusing. 

**Moderator: Okay, imagine if you did have concerns. Where would you expect to go for more information?**

**Participant:** Concerns about anything? Like changing contact information or…

**Moderator: This specifically. The connected apps.**

**Participant:** I guess I would click on learn more about this first...to try to answer any questions I might have before I would reachout. Learn more about SapleApp. Or there’s FAQs and you can find out what apps you can use through this bottom part. 

**Moderator: How would you connect a different app to your VA health records?

**Participant:** Say that again?

**Moderator: How would you connect a different app to your VA health records?

**Participant:** I would go back to the profile. I would go to connected apps. And... Connected apps...I would click on “find apps you can use”

**Moderator: Okay, and why would you click there?**

**Participant:** Cause I don’t see anything else, saying like add. This has just your connected apps. I would expect to see something like  add a new one and I don’t see that so I would think it would be in the “Find apps you can use” 

**Moderator: Overall, what did you expect to see in the connect apps section?**

**Participant:**  I would expect to see the ones that were currently connected. I would expect to see, or have the ability, to stop sharing and I would expect the ability to add a new connection. 

**Moderator: Do you have any questions about the process we just looked at?**

**Participant:** No, I don’t. 

**Moderator: Okay. Do you feel like it explained everything you were looking for on these pages?**

**Partipant:** No, I don’t know. I don’t know  if I have the ability to add  a new one on this page. Because I didn’t see that. Unless it was [Inadudable] 

**Moderator: Can you talk to me about the navigation at the top of the page?**

**Participant:** Just the profile or the top in general? 

**Moderator: The top in general.**

**Participant:** Maybe in addition to the direct deposit and the connect apps and the personal information if there was something like benefits you are currently using, currently receiving...benefits you are currently using. Because chances are if I am logging on to VA.gov, it has to do with one of the benefits I am using.

**Moderator: Anything else before we move on?**

**Participant:** No, that’s it.   

## Third Task: Wayfinding and profile navigation (Desktop) (10 minutes)

**Moderator: Okay, we're going to switch gears and take a look at the desktop view. We will start from the VA.gov homepage again, so if you could return to your browser with VA.gov and expand the screen so you're viewing it how you'd normally look at it. (From VA.gov homepage) Okay, so for this scenario you'd like to double check that the VA has the correct dates for the time that you were in the military. How would you do that?**

**Participant:** First thing is I would sign in 

**Moderator:(*send link*) Okay, great. So, I will send you a link to another prototype. And this time this is the desktop view.**

**Participant:** Okay, I logged in. If I wanted to check the dates of my service. I would go to my profile. I would click on military information. It looks like I could see I was in the Army until 2016 and the Air force...and if something doesn’t look right, I would click this button that says, “something doesn’t look right.” 

**Moderator: Do you understand what information on the page is editable?**

**Participant:** Yes, it looks like nothing is editable. And I wouldn’t imagine you would be able to edit your military information. 

**Moderator: Was anything confusing? **

**Participant:** No. 

**Moderator: Great, from here, could you show me how you'd edit the email address you use to log into VA.gov?**

**Participant:** I would click on to personal and contact information.Scroll down to email address. I would click on blue highlighted edit link - I would edit, I would update, I would change the email address and click update. And that’s how I would change the email address. 

**Moderator: Can you just double check that was the email you used to login into VA.gov?**

**Partpant:** Maybe account security. This is two factor authentication. I guess, are you saying it is not under the email address…That’s not the one I logged in with? 

**Moderator: If you can just scroll down so under the email address box you can see the little link.**

**Participant:** Oh, yeah. 

**Moderator: Yeah. So you can click on that. Can you give us thoughts how we can make that clearier?**

**Partpant:** I think it was clear. I just didn’t notice it. But I would imagine that changing your email address would change your DS and ID. I guess having it next to edit, having  a blue link next to edit instead of underneath.

**Moderator: Okay. Great. If you can scroll back up. Go ahead and click on account security.**

**Participant:** Okay. 

**Moderator: If you can just look over this and say if this is what you expected to see here...**

**Participant:** Ummmm, yes. I would also expect using the two factor. I would expect to see either a phone number or email address you can edit - I think I use a phone number as my two factor.  I would expect to see that is the factore they are using the correct either phone number or email address. 

**Moderator: For these exercises did you find it easy or hard to find the pages that you needed?**

**Participant:** Well, I thought I found it easy until I think I didn’t find the right email address thing.  So, I will just say for me personally that I didn’t realize that changing your email address wouldn’t automatically update the email that you use to sign in to VA.gov

**Moderator: Okay. So, for this desktop view. What are you thoughts on the navigation?**

**Participant:** I always, personally, like using the desktop, I think I am just older. I think, it has more on the page and you are more likely to see what you are looking for as opposed to be narrowed down to a smaller view. 

**Moderator: Okay, Great. Do you have any questions about these flows we went threw?**

**Participant:** No, I don’t

## Fourth Task: Profile and Profile 2.0 Comparison (5 minutes)

**Moderator: I'm going to quickly show you a different version of the profile (moderator shares screen with previous profile). Just one second. I am going to try that again. I think my internet is going slow.**

**Participant:** No, it’s okay

**Moderator: Do you remember if you ever used this version?

**Participant:** Yes, I think I did.

**Moderator: Do you remember what you did on here. You mentioned you changed your address, did you do anything else?

**Participant: I think I did change my direct deposit as well.**

**Moderator: Okay, do you remember that experience at all?**

**Participant:** Ummm, I don’t remember it being particularly memorable or difficult to do so 

**Moderator: Based on going through this flow, would you prefer to use the version we used today or this version?**

**Participant:** I think, ummm, I think the one we looked at earlier I feel like, had kind of, less information. Although it seems, you know the contact information. The fact that it has them in seprate tool bars makes it seem like there is less going on. So, the first one, I think, it more user friendly. 

**Moderator: Cool and why would you say that?** 

**Participant:** I think I am repeating what I just said. Everything is kind of, the first one had, just like these links at the top of the page, it just had them. Iit just seems like there is alot going on in the one that is currently being shown. 

**Moderator: Do you have any other thoughts or things you notice about this page vs the other one?**

**Participant:** I can’t tell if it’s just  my eyes, but do you have the ability to go in and edit email address or phone number? It doesn’t seem like you can add from this page because it does not give you the ability to edit it? Unless it’s at the top of the contact information. Oh, it says, “How do I update…”
It just seemed like the one earlier was more user friendly with the ability to handle things on your own.


## Post-Task Interview 

**Moderator: What are your overall impressions of the new VA.gov profile we viewed today?**

**Participant:**  It does seem more user friendly and kind of, less is more, Still have the same information. You have it in a way that is less confusi that you can edit...It just seems more user friendly is the short answer. 

**Moderator: Cool. What are your overall impressions of the new VA.gov profile we viewed today?**

**Participant:** I think it is user friendly. Easy to navigate. You know? Fail proof. If you wanted to go in see and edit  and change things. 

**Moderator: Overall, how could we improve the VA profile?**

**Participant:** I definitely think that’s the right path. You know, looking at the older site, like I said it just seemed like there was a lot more going on, which can be confusing for...I was going to say for like older Veterans, but I guess for everyone really.   

**Moderator: That’s all the questions I have. Any questions you have for me?**

**Participant:** No, I do not

## Thank-You and Closing

**Moderator: Well, we really appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us today. Your feedback is so helpful to us as we continue to work on the site and make sure it really works for Veterans.  As a thank you for your participation, we'd like to send you a $50 thank-you check. This will be sent by (Brian/Shannon from) Perigean, the people that recruited you to talk to us today. They'll work with you to figure out the right place to send it.  Any questions before we sign off?**

**Participant:**  Cool. I hope you and everyone else listening is safe and okay. 

**Moderator: Great, well thank you so much again, and enjoy the rest of your day!**
