# Session Notes: Income Limits App Usability Testing

## Warm-up Questions - 5 minutes
I have started recording and i'd like to confirm are you comfortable with recording my screen and audio today? Yes
1. *I understand you are a (Veteran / Caregiver). Is that right?*
	- *(If Caregiver, confirm:) Are you a caregiver for a Veteran? Are you a Veteran?*

1.	*What kind of device are you using today?* Apple iPad Mini 2 (Tablet) I have a smartphone, but I prefer the tablet because the screen is bigger.
_Do you ever browse websites on your phone?_ Yes, I do.
Prefer link to be sent in zoom chat.
1. *How do you typically get information and benefits from the VA?* Uh, I usually, sometimes word of mouth and that would lead me to maybe an individual provider or sometimes a website containing benefits information from maybe a therapist and also sometimes I do it independently on my own. Just web search is what I’m looking for, you know, various benefits information sometimes on chat boards and whatnot. 
Uses google chrome for web searches.

1. *Do you have VA health care?* I have conditional healthcare. It means I am only eligible for specific services because my claim is still working through the system. 

1. *What have you heard about income eligibility for VA health care?* Uh, I heard it when I was first getting started at the VA, I am with now specifically with the means test. Any income or benefits that are granted to you like social security, disability or retirement pension. Things like that.

1. *Do you get a pension from the VA?* I do not.

1. *Do you get VA disability compensation for a service-connected disability rating of 50% or higher?*  Correct, zero. They consider it zero. I am on an appeal. I applied in 2019, I think. 


## User Tasks
Hmm, it says update or switch browsers. Let me see. I also have google chrome on here, so I’ll try to open it in that. The website you sent me says unsupported browser but I was using safari, so I am seeing if that works on Google Chrome. It says the same exact thing. Let me share my screen so you can see the message itself. 

[because of the browser problem, moderated asked participant to use computer instead, which worked]

### Task 1: [Wayfinding] 
*(if they DON'T have VA health care) Let's say that you're wondering if you're eligible for VA health care with your current income.* Generally I would look up the income limits on google and specifically look for a VA.gov page or something official and see if my income is within those parameters. 
Typed in VA income limits for 2023 on google. Scrolled down to Health Benefits – Annual Income Limits link straight from the VA.gov. I wouldn’t be looking at pension rates because that doesn’t apply to me. And I also may look at this link 2023 VA Health Care Copay Benefits. 
So right here I would look at the Aid and Attendance Threshold because I believe that applies to me possibly and maybe the national income threshold but to figure out which of these two groups, I’m in, or any of these groups, I would contact an attorney in the VA that we have. There is a pro bono law group that does loft limits and things like that for veterans and they also work on VA claims and are there to answer questions that have a hotline that you can call so those kinds of things because I have learned from past experience that it’s a lot easier to ask the professional than to spin your wheels and figure it out, you know. If you’re not sure because some of these things are arbitrary you know some of the grouping not so much.
 
*(if they already have VA health care) Let's say that your income just changed, and you want to know whether you're still eligible for VA health care or if your benefits might change.* 

*if they have 50% or higher disability rating, do they say that income limits don't apply to them?*

*if they have a VA pension, do they say that income limits don't apply to them?*

*Can you show me how you would find out if you're eligible for VA health care with your current income?*

### Task 2: [Open prototype] 

*What are your impressions of what you're looking at?* Looks like a VA website explaining healthcare costs but that looks like it’s for folks with a disability rating of at least 50%. I think it’s really just an overview of the different..sorry I lost my train of thought. It’s really just an overview of things you would expect and questions you may have about signing up for VA healthcare and if you’re eligible.

*Could you try to use this to find out if you're eligible for VA health care with your current income? Please explain what you want to do before clicking anywhere.* Right here it is, how we assess and verify your income to determine eligibility and copays. I am just going to read through this really quickly. Okay yeah, the means test that I had mentioned before. And I’m going to go ahead and well, it’s not a link. But if it was a link, I would click it under the paragraph right here that says we use your income information to help determine for VA healthcare based on your income and whether you need to pay copays.
I would continue to scroll down and read and see what enhanced eligibility status means...which means you don’t need to provide your income information. You don’t qualify, for eligibility status but you agree to pay copay for your care. You do not have to provide your financial information. I mean reading from that I would probably expand all where it says more about providing financial information for specific groups because what if I am in a group that I do not know about.
Okay so I am just going to go ahead and read through the VA health care costs. It says you may qualify for additional healthcare depending on your income disability rating and I’m just gonna read through this particular paragraph about will I need to pay for my care. So, it looks like they give you a little bit of information about the requirements and a little bit with the priority groups but I’m gonna continue to scroll down to see if there’s anything else if. And there it says check our current income limits that I’m assuming this is an active one, correct?
Maybe a table setup that has different priority grounds or different incomes.
Okay, I’m gonna go and click Get Started where the green arrow is.
### Task 3: [Intro page of app] 
*What are your impressions of this page?*  so this kind of setup I like. Specifically with the bold text and how there’s bubbles here. I know this is slightly different, but this is a more visually pleasing design.
*What do you think you can do here?*

*Do you think this tool would be useful for you or not? WHY?* I think it would, but the problem is that there’s a lot of text and not enough separation of it, or I’m sorry, like differences in it. So, it’s kind of like a *tldr* situation if that makes sense, you know even something as important as income and VA healthcare.

*If not, who would it be useful for?* 


### Task 4: [Answer questions in app] 
*How would you use this? Please talk me through what you would do, but do not click anywhere yet.*

- *(RECORD all comments and anything confusing about the interactions on each screen of the prototype:)*
 I’m going to go ahead and select. No, I didn’t get VA pension benefits but I’m assuming not an active link.
Did you attend  VA aid and attendance? I’m assuming I’m gonna…oh, no, it allows you to click. Now, alright, I’m gonna go ahead and click continue. 
I have, but I’m not completely sure what it is. I’m assuming maybe something with caregivers but again, not sure.
Did you get a VA household allowance? I did not. And I know because I don’t get VA benefits yet. I’m gonna go ahead and click continue whenever you are ready.
Okay, good. I don’t have to select a zip code, but I would type in my zip code and just click continue.
How many dependents did you have last year? Okay, so they're saying, I had 2. Can I click continue? 
*what would you have put there if you had?* zero.
Alright so just reviewing the information and whenever you’re ready ill click continue.

### Task 5: [Results screen]
*What are your impressions of this page?* alright, your income limits for 2023. And, by the way, this design I like as well with the with the little arrow here, and the dot line instead of the straight line, and the little expanded boxes with the bold text. also, to differentiate whether it's a link or something else.

- *(RECORD: Which accordions did they open? How to estimate income / $29K / $29-43K / $43-81K / $81-90K / $90K or more)*  So select your household income for 2023. I don't want to put in my real income just for privacy reasons.

*Can you explain what this page means to you?*

*How is your income involved here?* I have social security and disability. Oh, I mean I would just, you know, I would have to see what range my income was and then I would expand it and then see what things I may be eligible for based on this tool.

*If your salary last year was around $40,000, what might that mean for your eligibility for VA health care?* Uh, lets see. Were in the 29 to 43. It says you may be eligible for VA health care for most types of care and prescription medications with copays.
So, it means that when you go in for care whether its mental or physical health, you don’t have to pay a copay to see the physician for a visit or test but for prescription medications you will have to pay copays for. 
Just an amount of money you have to pay based on your income and I guess based on your eligibility based on your health care you get.

*Can you tell me what benefits you might get?*

*If your salary last year was around $28,000, what might that mean?* free VA health care for most types of care, free prescription medicines, travel reimbursement. 
Yeah, I've never had the travel reimbursement, but I know a lot of people that have, and it's I live in New York City. And so sometimes it's different whether they have like a specific van that does it, or if it's sometimes trying to get a really difficult cab reimbursement.
*If your salary last year was around $83,000, what might that mean?* VA health care with full copays for care and prescription medicines. Copayment based on income and the type of care you have. So you go to a physician, get medication. You have to pay Copayment.
Copay and based on your income and the type of care you have.

*If your salary last year was around $90,000, what might that mean?* It would be in this same category. 

*How sure are you that these benefits would apply if your salary was around $90,000?* not sure because it is at the end of the income bracket so especially if it was like 90,090, I would probably contact someone local at the VA or use one of the many helpful chat options.

- *How certain are you that you don't qualify for more benefits*? 

*What if your salary was around $100,000?* I would click this next box. It says you may not be eligible for VA health care based on your income, but you may still be eligible based on factors like your disability rating or service history, so it looks like Based on that income of a 100 k. You are only entitled to the Disability bill that you get, and not any healthcare through the VA. 
But it continues on and says that we can connect you with mental health care. No matter your discharge, status, service, or history, ze, and then they also say, Non-VA health insurance options, which I have read about before, not because my income was that up because of Medicare stuff, and I know that sometimes the Va. If your income is at that level, will work with Medicare and do a similar thing where you pay like a certain percentage for inpatient care and other things.

*(RECORD all comments)*

### Task 6: [What next]
*Please stay on this screen. Based on what you see in this screen, what do you think about this information and the question of eligibility for VA health care?* I would say it is pretty clear and laid out well.  I would say this is very partial kind of brief information so I would be like 50% sure but I would definitely contact somebody or do a little more research because it says you may which is not…

*How would you decide what to do next?* 

*What would you do next?*  it says right here you can call the 877 number but then there’s also, I know this probably doesn’t work, but maybe there would be a chat feature.
I would also look at past income limits. If I was someone whose income was erratic, not consistent, then I would want to know if I would still be eligible. Maybe pattern of changes, so that if I'm somebody, that their income is erratic, or I don't. Yeah, erratic or not really dependable. I would want to get a sense of, you know, MIC, maybe paying for copays or not, you know, to try to get a sense. If there's a pattern in the ways that the I'm so sorry. I apologize. If there's any kind of pattern like I said of. Did seem to raise it, like, you know, 4,000 a year, whatever it is. And of course, you know, but that's it. Sorry.

*How did this tool help or not help you decide what to do?*

### Task 7: [Check info entered]
*Now you want to check whether you entered your location correctly. How could you do that?*  I would scroll up. I am not sure. I would maybe go back in the application, but I am not seeing an option.
Or I would see “review the information you entered” ahh okay here. So, I would click edit where it says edit zip code.


### Task 8: [Change year]
*Suppose that you’re in the process of appealing a health care claim from 2021, and you want to see the income limits from that year. What could you do?*  I would scroll down to where it says past income limits and click this link. Past income limits…you said it was from 2021. So, this says you can go back all the way to 2015 so I would click 2021. Did you get a VA pension from VBA in 2020? For me I would say no. Did you get VA Aid and Attendance benefits in 2020? No and then I would click continue. 

What was your zip in 2020 I would click continue. How many dependents? I of course would put 0 but it says 2 so I click continue. 

Your income limits for 2021.*reads through paragraph* I would definitely read this to make sure I am adding up the income I have. Oh, and its saying to get a full income assessment you need to apply. So, with that note it tells me I should not take this for face value….(time 2:58)

- *(RECORD all comments and anything confusing re the interactions on each screen of the prototype:)*

## Post-Task Interview - 10 minutes
1. *How or where would you expect to find this app that you just used?* probably on the VA smartphone app, I have it. Under the benefits section.

1. *What worked well for you?* I would say the little carats with the information, obviously the design features with the dropdown lists and whatnot, and the fact that…

1. *What was unclear or didn't work well for you?* in the beginning with this link where I told you about the long paragraphs that were just like all the same.

1. *What would you like to change or add?* i'd like an option for like a chat that you can click like a little chat bubble. It depends whether it’s a bot or a representative. But you know, having maybe pre-selected questions like, If my income is at the upper limit, am I in this bracket or this bracket?

1. *Is there anything else that we haven't talked about that you think I should know?* 
