# Session Notes: Income Limits App Usability Testing

## Warm-up Questions - 5 minutes

1. *I understand you are a (Veteran / Caregiver). Is that right?* Yes, I am. Retired Air Force.
	- *(If Caregiver, confirm:) Are you a caregiver for a Veteran? Are you a Veteran?*

1. *What kind of device are you using today?* A cell phone. It is an Android. You just tell me.
1. *How do you typically get information and benefits from the VA?* I used to go to VA.gov. 

1. *Do you have VA health care?* No I do not.

1.	*What have you heard about income eligibility for VA health care?* I really haven’t heard anything about it since I have been employed since retiring and I am using Tricare. I pay some annual fees.


1. *Do you get a pension from the VA?*  No I do not.

1. *Do you get VA disability compensation for a service-connected disability rating of 50% or higher?* No I do not.


## User Tasks

### Task 1: [Wayfinding] 
*(if they DON'T have VA health care) Let's say that you're wondering if you're eligible for VA health care with your current income.* 

*(if they already have VA health care) Let's say that your income just changed, and you want to know whether you're still eligible for VA health care or if your benefits might change.*

*if they have 50% or higher disability rating, do they say that income limits don't apply to them?*

*if they have a VA pension, do they say that income limits don't apply to them?*

*Can you show me how you would find out if you're eligible for VA health care with your current income?* Goes to VA.gov. I would just start looking at the site and go to apply now for VA healthcare. Check eligibility. Start with the application, or maybe go to programs and services to check that out. I probably wouldn’t go to the application right away. I think I would go to the programs and services at the bottom. Maybe I would do a search at the top for income eligibility. Annual income limits health benefits, right there. Okay this takes me to annual income limits, and this shows me.

### Task 2: [Open prototype] 

*What are your impressions of what you're looking at?* I think for the phone the text is a little too big for the phone I am using. I am using a Galaxy Z fold and the test is too big even for the bigger screen. It has good headings. I like how the information is laid out. It is definitely identifying as a VA website. 

*Could you try to use this to find out if you're eligible for VA health care with your current income? Please explain what you want to do before clicking anywhere.* I am just scrolling to see if I could find more information. I see a link that says check our current income limits. It has information about how it changes. I would click the get started. On this page I could verify my income to ensure I can qualify. Make sure I meet all the requirements prior to applying.


### Task 3: [Intro page of app] 
*What are your impressions of this page?*
*What do you think you can do here?*

*Do you think this tool would be useful for you or not? WHY?* Yes because these are questions, I have had in the past. The VA website has so much information that it can get overwhelming.

*If not, who would it be useful for?*


### Task 4: [Answer questions in app] 
*How would you use this? Please talk me through what you would do, but do not click anywhere yet.* I would click no because I did not get a pension last year. Did I get VA aid, and I would click no. Did I get a house allowance last year, that is a no. I like how these are simple questions. I would enter my zip code and hit continue. If I was doing this for real, I would put only one since it is just myself and my wife. My daughter is 28 years old and out of the house. Yeah, that is how we usually file is 1 dependent. I like that it gives you the option to go back and edit. I would just continue. It comes up with the income limits and tells me that I meet the limit.

- *(RECORD all comments and anything confusing about the interactions on each screen of the prototype:)*
 

### Task 5: [Results screen]
*What are your impressions of this page?* I like the page. The larger text on the phone is not bad because I do not have to get my glasses to read it. It is simple and it would take a short amount of time to go through. I would use this page to see if I met the income limits and go through the process to apply for benefits.

- *(RECORD: Which accordions did they open? How to estimate income / $29K / $29-43K / $43-81K / $81-90K / $90K or more)* If I expand that range, it states I may be eligible for some  healthcare and prescriptions. It means I would not have to pay for normal care and get medications. 
What do you mean by normal care? Checkups, acute care for sickness, colds, flus, anything like that which requires a doctor’s visits. I would not think it would cover surgeries. I guess it would be helpful if it gave more information on what type of care it would include.
*What does copay mean to you?* It is a small payment I would have to pay when I go to the doctor/prescription. Usually, $30, or less.

*Can you explain what this page means to you?*

*How is your income involved here?*

*If your salary last year was around $40,000, what might that mean for your eligibility for VA health care?*

*Can you tell me what benefits you might get?*

*If your salary last year was around $28,000, what might that mean?* Free care, free prescription, travel reimbursement, so if I had to go to a special VA, I would get money back for gas and lodging.

*If your salary last year was around $83,000, what might that mean?* I get healthcare with full copays and prescriptions. That is the only thing listed on there. The more income the copays come into play.

*If your salary last year was around $90,000, what might that mean?* I would still be in the same bracket, but if it was over $90,000, I would not be eligible unless I had a VA disability rating. 

*How sure are you that these benefits would apply if your salary was around $90,000?* It says you may not be eligible, but I would click on the link that states find out if you may be eligible. I would expect that I was not eligible since I do not have any disability.

- *How certain are you that you don't qualify for more benefits*? 

*What if your salary was around $100,000?* I would expect the same about the $90,000 or more unless I had a VA disability in the system.

*(RECORD all comments)*

### Task 6: [What next]
*Please stay on this screen. Based on what you see in this screen, what do you think about this information and the question of eligibility for VA health care?* The information is clear. I think there are one or two spots that could provide more information, like what is normal care would be. Just so you have a context to relate it to. It makes it easy to navigation and understand.
Is this the final answer? Is there anything else you need to do to see if what you see is correct? I would think this is correct. It gives you a point to go further down the road if there is anything else you can do to go through the process. The ones that are higher I don’t think it is not for sure you don’t qualify but you need to go through the process to see if you are eligible. I would click the "Find out if you may be eligible" link for VA healthcare underneath it.

*How would you decide what to do next?* 

*What would you do next?* I would go ahead and click on the link that states to find out to see if I was eligible.

*How did this tool help or not help you decide what to do?* It easily demonstrates what the brackets were and what benefits you would receive. That is the main point.

### Task 7: [Check info entered]
*Now you want to check whether you entered your location correctly. How could you do that?* I would scroll up and click on review information that you have entered, and it takes me back to review my information and then I would click edit. I would go to zip code and hit edit. I would reenter my zip code and continue. It takes me back to the dependents and hit continue where it would take me back to review my information. 

### Task 8: [Change year]
*Suppose that you’re in the process of appealing a health care claim from 2021, and you want to see the income limits from that year. What could you do?*  I think what I could do is expand my estimate tool. That is not what I was looking for so I would maybe go back to, I don’t think that was in the review the information you entered. Maybe expand all to see if there is another area. Get past income link at the bottom. It shows I can go back to 2015, so I would scroll down to 2021, and hit continue. It takes me through the same questions as before. I would select the income bracket I fall in and expand it.

- *(RECORD all comments and anything confusing re the interactions on each screen of the prototype:)*

## Post-Task Interview - 10 minutes
1. *How or where would you expect to find this app that you just used?* This tool I just used I would expect to find it on VA.gov that is where I go to find any VA information.  It would be great if you clicked on the healthcare would have a drop down with an income calculator. 

1. *What worked well for you?* The questions for the eligible were simple and it took you through one at a time. 

1. *What was unclear or didn't work well for you?* The only thing was the description of normal healthcare.

1.	*What would you like to change or add?* From what you said it would have information you have already entered for other years. If there was a lot of information to enter if you could have that populate, but with what is asked I don’t see that as an issue. 
2.	*Is the font different than you normally see on your phone?* Yes. 3
3.	*Do you normally navigate webpages on your phone?* Yes, sometimes. More browsing happens on a computer. 
4.	*Can you go back to the original page before the past limits part? The final page for the current year. Did you read anything or know of anything from here if deductions would count towards your eligibility?* No, I was thinking it was talking about my annual income. That tells me that it is not your annual income that counts deductions as well. I think it would be better if you added that information into the introduction instead of putting it into an expansion area.
5.	*What do you think would be helpful to help tell you that deductions would be counted?* I would think for this one I think when you go to select your income range I would just go to the numbers. That is how I would click. Just have a brief introduction stating it is a total income for me and my spouse which is important to know.

1. *Is there anything else that we haven't talked about that you think I should know?* I could open another tab and show you have the normal VA websites typically shows up. It is more of a formatting for a cellphone over a desktop. 
