## Session Notes: Income Limits App Usability Testing

## Warm-up Questions - 5 minutes

1. *I understand you are a (Veteran / Caregiver). Is that right?* Yes.
	- *(If Caregiver, confirm:) Are you a caregiver for a Veteran? Are you a Veteran?*

1.	*What kind of device are you using today?* I have you on my iPhone, but I have my iPad with me also. The Zoom in on the iPhone.
2.	How would you prefer to receive that URL? Yeah, either way the chat is fine.
1. *How do you typically get information and benefits from the VA?* I just Google it or look it up. Search for it. 

1. *Do you have VA health care?* I don’t. I don’t get any benefits.

1. *What have you heard about income eligibility for VA health care?* Income eligibility, no I haven’t.

1. *Do you get a pension from the VA?* No I don’t.

1. *Do you get VA disability compensation for a service-connected disability rating of 50% or higher?* No. No, I don’t.0


## User Tasks

### Task 1: [Wayfinding] 
*(if they DON'T have VA health care) Let's say that you're wondering if you're eligible for VA health care with your current income.*

*(if they already have VA health care) Let's say that your income just changed, and you want to know whether you're still eligible for VA health care or if your benefits might change.*

*if they have 50% or higher disability rating, do they say that income limits don't apply to them?*

*if they have a VA pension, do they say that income limits don't apply to them?*

*Can you show me how you would find out if you're eligible for VA health care with your current income?* Hmm, so I guess I would just VA income eligibility. So, I guess right here. 

### Task 2: [Open prototype] 

*What are your impressions of what you're looking at?*

*Could you try to use this to find out if you're eligible for VA health care with your current income? Please explain what you want to do before clicking anywhere.* Learn more about VA eligibility. That seems like a pretty good place to start applying for VA healthcare. Check out our current income limit, that might be it. It is pretty far down on the page if that is the section I was going to. I would go to that.


### Task 3: [Intro page of app] 
*What are your impressions of this page?* Hmm looks like a basic information site from the VA. 
*What do you think you can do here?* Oh there is a whole menu section that was covered up. It looks like you can sign into a VA account. Get started, I guess it would go through my income and verify if I meet the limits or not.

*Do you think this tool would be useful for you or not? WHY?* Yeah, I think it would be helpful to people to see if they qualify or not based on their income. I don’t know if I really thought about applying for VA based on my income. Right based on my income stuff. That never really occurred to me for some reason. 
Have you considered VA healthcare? Yeah, I have. I just never went through with it for some reason.
You have never applied? Right, yeah. I was going to try to do it so I could get my school pay for it, but my school did not take that, so it didn’t work for me. 

*If not, who would it be useful for?*


### Task 4: [Answer questions in app] 
*How would you use this? Please talk me through what you would do, but do not click anywhere yet.*
Probably click this get started thing right here and see what that does for me. I am not sure why it is not letting me click on it. I was trying to click on no I did not receive the VA pension and just go through the questions. No, I didn’t. No. Zip code last year. So, I would just put my zip code in which is not that one, and just hit continue. So, it would be just myself for dependents, but this would have me enter 2. Now I have to review my information, which looks good to me.

- *(RECORD all comments and anything confusing about the interactions on each screen of the prototype:)*
 

### Task 5: [Results screen]
*What are your impressions of this page?* 

- *(RECORD: Which accordions did they open? How to estimate income / $29K / $29-43K / $43-81K / $81-90K / $90K or more)*

*Can you explain what this page means to you?* I guess it is just like. I guess it is like it has the break down of the income limit, it looks like, and what benefits you qualify for. It also has a link so you can apply. You could either apply or see what you are eligible for. 

*How is your income involved here?*

*If your salary last year was around $40,000, what might that mean for your eligibility for VA health care?* Free VA healthcare for most kinds of care and prescriptions with copays. You lose the travel reimbursement. *inaudible* *participant drops call* 

*Can you tell me what benefits you might get?*

*If your salary last year was around $28,000, what might that mean?*

*If your salary last year was around $83,000, what might that mean?*

*If your salary last year was around $90,000, what might that mean?*

*How sure are you that these benefits would apply if your salary was around $90,000?*

- *How certain are you that you don't qualify for more benefits*? 

*What if your salary was around $100,000?*

*(RECORD all comments)*

### Task 6: [What next]
*Please stay on this screen. Based on what you see in this screen, what do you think about this information and the question of eligibility for VA health care?*

*How would you decide what to do next?* 

*What would you do next?* 

*How did this tool help or not help you decide what to do?*

### Task 7: [Check info entered]
*Now you want to check whether you entered your location correctly. How could you do that?* 

### Task 8: [Change year]
*Suppose that you’re in the process of appealing a health care claim from 2021, and you want to see the income limits from that year. What could you do?* 

- *(RECORD all comments and anything confusing re the interactions on each screen of the prototype:)*

## Post-Task Interview - 10 minutes
1. *How or where would you expect to find this app that you just used?*

1. *What worked well for you?*

1. *What was unclear or didn't work well for you?*

1. *What would you like to change or add?*

1. *Is there anything else that we haven't talked ab
