# notes

Mark Dewey's Notes from the 20210713 meeting

## scratch pad

- whats is the minimal data we need to store in LoROTA
- currently VetText queries LoROTA

- vetxt puts data in lorata
gets UUId
only stores
  appointment id

link to a list of questionnaires

line between check in and clipboard

a clipboard gets a UUID

- arrary if Qid's

if vetext knew the Qid, it could just embed

VeText is going straight to VistA

SiP

- QR responses don't expire
- SiP using Lighthouse?

## Whats the MVP?

- a validation page/flow
- a thing that supports multiple questionnaires
  - a checklist to show use what questionnaires they have
- VeText queries Vista to store data in LoROTA
  - patient ICN
  - appointment id
- Vets API queries LoROTA to get clipboard data

## Questions

- How can we prefetch LoROTA data in a sercure way?
- In complete data in Light house, that might be an issue.
- Do we need demographic data for our questionnaire?
- can we edit the questionnaire?
- Can the questionnaires be required at different times? Ie Mental health needs to be fill out with in aday or pre-visit can be filled out now. (not MVP)

## Actions Items

# Stephen Barrs notes:
## Optimization opportunities 
* Can we pre fetch UUID and data from LoROTA in a secure way?
    * I think this goes against the core security of Lorota.  App would have to query for all UUIDs associated with that app to pre-cache. No GET request should be made to Lorota without a UUID
* Cache data after first LoROTA access in vets-api redis
    * This can work and should respect the timeToLive and valid date range embedded in the Lorota options data

## save in progress
* if using PGD what happens if they never complete it and partial data is in PGD?
* staff and other apps need to query for all QRs regardless of status, and handle empty data fields
* do we need SIP if using multiple short forms?
* does legal ownership of data start with data entry or with submit?
* need to be very intentional about what our obligations are around SIP if we are implementing it ourselves.  
* clear description to Veteran about if the data would be visible to providers or not. 

## Snapshot Data
* we store this in postgres so we can get a snapshot of demographic data when the form was completed.  Do we really need this?
* Why are we doing anything with demographics in pre visit summary?
* if demographics updates are needed, that should be a separate form to complete. 

## Assumptions:
A Veteran who completes forms with Lorota access can access those completed forms until the TTL or Date Range is no longer valid
* Should subsequent access be read only?  can they edit a submitted form? (FHIR QR status=amended) 

