# Conversation Guide: Direct Deposit Updates

### [Staging](https://staging.va.gov)

## Warm-up Questions (2 minutes)

1. **Before we start, can you tell me a little bit about yourself? (If stuck, prompt to ask about service experience, where they live, their work).**

- I’m from [redacted], I’m 37 and I’m a veteran.

2. **Do you have a VA.gov account? If so, about how often do you use the website?**

- Yes

3. **Do you receive direct deposit payments from the VA? If so, for what?**

- Yes. For service-connected disability.

## Navigating to Direct Deposit (5 – 10 minutes)

Alright, we are now on VA.gov. We have already signed you in as a test user named Johnnie Weaver.

1. **Without clicking anything, can you please tell me where you think a VA.gov user might go to update their direct deposit information with the VA?**

- Probably the VA healthcare and benefits. 
  - Why- because it deals with benefits.
- Navigate to direct deposit- or maybe it would be myVA. So, when I did the option I didn’t see anything for direct deposit, so I went to MyVA and it doesn’t give me . I could try find VA benefits.
  - Why- Because you know it’s a benefit so its dealing with things like direct deposit. 
- Next- Um, I would try to click find va benefits. I don’t really see a link to direct deposit.
- Next- Maybe my name. Maybe account. 
  - Why- Um, I guess I thought it would deal with direct deposit but it just talking about my va.gov account. I am looking to see other options but don’t see anything that would have to do with direct deposit. 
- Next to find it- At this point I would probably give up. Nah, I can’t see anything else that has to do with direct deposit.
- Try from here- Maybe go to profile. Oh, there it is. 

2. **OK, now that we have talked through it, please show me how you would find where to update your direct deposit information with the VA.**

- (Looks in Health and Benefits menu and doesn't see it)
- Navigate to direct deposit- or maybe it would be myVA. So, when I did the option I didn’t see anything for direct deposit, so I went to MyVA and it doesn’t give me . I could try find VA benefits.
  - Why- Because you know it’s a benefit so its dealing with things like direct deposit. 
- (On My VA dashboard) Um, I would try to click find va benefits. I don’t really see a link to direct deposit.
- Next- Maybe my name. Maybe account. 
  - (Goes to Account Settings) Why- Um, I guess I thought it would deal with direct deposit but it just talking about my va.gov account. I am looking to see other options but don’t see anything that would have to do with direct deposit. 
- Next to find it- At this point I would probably give up. Nah, I can’t see anything else that has to do with direct deposit.
- Try from here- Maybe go to profile. (Goes to Profile via main nav) Oh, there it is. 

3. **How did this meet your expectations?**

- Experience, confusing- I don’t know, I don’t think it was confusing I just didn’t know where to go. It is not descriptive enough. I guess it could let you know that this tab deals with banking information. Ok, just if it were to say banking information or direct deposit directly. Something like that would let you know. 
- Where- I guess down by the rest of the tabs on the home page like where it says my home VA.
- Makes sense- Yes it does actually.
  - Why- Because you know it is where all of your other information is, so it is fitting that the direct deposit information is where your other information
- Why in account settings- Again because I was thinking account, I associate account with bank account.

4. **What could this be improved?**

-  Improve- I guess even though I said it would be easier to have a tab. It to be in profile does seem more fitting. Just kind of like provide I guess a little video to help guys navigate where it at. Like I didn’t know it would be in profile. This is where you would find information for direct deposit. 


## Direct Deposit in the Profile

Now we are in the user profile. Please scroll until you see the "Direct Deposit" section.

1. **First, tell me what you are looking at here.**

- Yea this is pretty good. It seems like once I get here I am able to go to where I need to go. Like if I wanted to do any type of edit or look at any type of information I can. Yes. would This first one right here. Right here.

2. **Where would you go to update your direct deposit information for the GI Bill?**

- (Not in notes)

3. **What should you do if you think you are the victim of fraud?**

- I would call this number right here.

4. **Without clicking anything, what do you think will happen when you click Edit?**

- It is likely it will take me to the screen where I can edit my information. 

OK you can click Edit. 

1. **(Once modal is open) Can you tell me what you are looking at here?**

- Yes, it is asking for my banking information. 

2. **Why do you think each field is blank?**

- Because I have not put anything personal in there yet.

3. **OK, now we are going to have you update this information. For the routing number, please enter 124003116. You can enter anything into the Account Number and Account Type field.**

- (No response)

4. **(If they have clicked Update, direct them to reopen the form) How did this form meet your expectations?**

- It was pretty good. 
- Why- It allows you to choose your information pretty easily. 
- Clarification- Like routing number was available and all the information was already there. Pretty much select it and update it.
- Different if I had to fill it in- If it were my first-time yea, if it wasn’t I wouldn’t be too happy.

- **(If applicable) What was clear? What did you find to be confusing?**

- No its pretty straight forward

5. **What could this be improved?**

- I can’t really think of a way to improve it, it seems pretty standard I guess. This is how it is on all the other sites you must open your information.

## Direct Deposit Content Page

(URL is https://staging.va.gov/change-direct-deposit-beta)

**Note**: We may do this sectin before the profile section if someone searches for Direct Deposit instead of navigating right to the profile.

1. **If you needed more information on direct deposit, how would you find it?**

- I would probably just go back to the top maybe. 
- (Still on profile) Next- I am looking at this, I think this is the only area that deals with direct deposit and if I need anything additional to anything available. 
- Didn’t try to search- I didn’t notice there was a search, I am just now seeing it. 
- Search direct deposit- No because for whatever reason I knew it would give me all of these other options. It says 1 of 10 of 999 results. That’s a lot. I would click on the first one (clicks into direct deposit content page). 


(Assuming they search) Alright, I have that page open in another tab, so I will navigate there for you. (Once they open the page):

1. **Can you take a look over this page and talk to me about what you see on this page?**

- (Reading page), Yea this seems like this page has everything here. 
- Clarification- like if you want to change your information and it tells you here how to change it. 

2. **(Change wording depending if profile has already been visited) How would you update your direct deposit info for comp and pen? OR How would you navigate to your profile to update your direct deposit info?**

-	Just go to profile here.

3. **How would you update your direct deposit info for the GI Bill and other education benefits?**

-	I would have to sign in to ebenefits. 
-	Thinking- I would click this right here (referencing correct CTA). 

4. **How else could you update your direct deposit information if you did not want to do it online?**

- Call this number right here. 

5. **How could you update the address associated with your direct deposit info?**

- I am thinking maybe go back to profile. 

6. **How did this page meet your expectations?**

- Actually, its pretty good, I didn’t know I could access all of this information. 
- More clear- I say that a lot of the time I get emails for va.gov and I don’t really read them and mostly just trash them. I am assuming that this information is in the emails that are sent to me. Its mostly on my part, maybe if I just paid more attention and read the information how the website has changed and the new things going on with the website. Right. 

7. **What could this be improved?**

- Um, no. 
- (What is Clear about page) well it just the information that you need is telling you where everything is at. 
- Improved- Maybe make it to where someone who doesn’t know what to look for can look for it. When I talk to my uncles they are not tech savvy and get confused, I guess if it could be a bit simpler and more exact. 
- How- I guess up top where it has questions in bold and answer, provide a link directly that will go to everything and have everything there when you click the link instead of having to always scroll down to link.
- Clarification- Yes. Having them all up here like right there. Like a link back to the profile.

## Post-Task Interview - 2 minutes

1. **Overall, how did you feel about the entire experience we looked at today?**

- Well again, if I am to be helpful I didn’t know I was able to access al of this information on the website. 

2. **In addition to anything you have already mentioned, how could this overall experience be improved?**

- Well again like I said, I know that they send out the emails and even when you go to the VA there’s sometimes booths where people can help you. Make sure everyone has access to the information. Make people knowledge like classes or videos so guys know how to use the website. 
