# Rules of Engagement (ROE) - P2 Notes

*Engineer, VFS - Benefits & Memorials*

Friday, Oct 25, 2019 at 5:30pm ET


## Intro 

**Moderator:** Thanks for joining us today! My name is Naomi and I also have some colleagues on the line observing and taking notes. Today we're going to talk about the experience of the VFS team working with the VSP team. I don’t know if you’ve heard about VSP team?

**VFS teammate:** I’ve been working on VA.gov for a year and a half now, used to work on it when it was one team

**Moderator:**  In this session, we want to hear your honest opinions. We are not testing your ability. We just want to improve the process so we can all better meet Veteran's needs. I will not be offended by any opinions you express, and I welcome your feedback.

**Moderator:**-If for any reason and at any time you want to stop the session, please let me know. Are you comfortable if I record my screen and audio as we talk today?

**VFS teammate:** Yeah, totally fine.
   
 **Moderator:** If yes: Once I start recording, I am going to confirm that you are ok with me recording this session once more.

*Start recording.*

-I have started recording. I'd like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record my screen the audio as we talk today?"

**VFS teammate:** Yes , I’m fine

 **Moderator:** We’re talking about ROE documents, talking about usability and findability of documents like this.

## Interview questions for VFS team members

**Moderator:** - How long have you worked on veteran-facing tools?

**VFS teammate:** I started working on va.gov when it was still vets.gov. Maybe march of last year around that time

**Moderator:** - What is your practice area?

**VFS teammate:** I’m a back-end engineer.

**Moderator:** Have you heard of the term Rules of Engagement? What does it mean to you?

**VFS teammate:** I mean, yeah. Maybe not terms in engineering practices

**Moderator:** What comes to mind?

**VFS teammate:** Warfare. *laughs*
 
**Moderator:** Anything else?

**VFS teammate:** A set of rules that you have to follow for both parties.

**Moderator:** - Have you heard of a document called Rules of Engagement? 

**VFS teammate:** No, not personally.

**Moderator:** - If there was a document, What would you expect from this type of document?

**VFS teammate:** I mean, that’s a pretty, what’s the word I’m looking for...could be anything related to my practice. Could be how pull requests should be handled, how code structure, how documentation, rules having to do with my job I guess

**Moderator:**  Have you seen it somewhere before?

**VFS teammate:** Mm-mm
 
**Moderator:** If there was a document, where would you think to find it

**VFS teammate:** Va.gov team repo

**Moderator:** Your specific team, vsa- benefits memorials?

**VFS teammate:**  I don’t know about team specific, but probably under engineering practices.

**Moderator:** Have you written anything like this?

**VFS teammate:** I haven’t participated or read a global doc like this or at all. Only documentation ive worked on is specifically stuff we’re working on. Nothing best practices per say. 

**Moderator:** In terms of being on this team, have you ever had other back-end engineers join this team?

**VFS teammate:** Yeah

**Moderator:** Have you given them any documentation?

**VFS teammate:** Depends on the team, like if you need to get things developed? There’s devops that. API punch list stuff, things like best practices, things to follow. 
To be honest, most documentation stuff is pretty dispersed. Most of us learn by word-of-mouth, if you ask someone that's been here longer than you, you ask them or you work off the current code

**Moderator:** If it were all in one place, you would recommend the team engineer folder or where would you look to find it?

**VFS teammate:**  I don’t care where it sits, as long as it’s cohesively together. Please don’t use confluence or any documentation app. It should be there cohesive, searchable, indexable. That’s what makes documentation good, not that it’s just there but you can find it.

**Moderator:** If you were to search for this, what would you search for?

**VFS teammate:** Depends on what im looking up and what problem I have. Say I have to work with upstream services for edss (?) , if I want to look up documentations for keywords on that, I should look up the keyword and see what applies to those keywords.

**Moderator:** When you have helped others onboard in your team, did you spend an amount of time that could have been documented. What would be helpful for someone new coming on?

**VFS teammate:** I still have multiple engineers on my team that doesn't have socket access and that's a problem. There's a certain amount of access an engineer needs before they’re useful. We’re still waiting on PIV access which is insane, there’s a lot of kinds of blockers that are out of our hands.
Beyond that, I spend a lot of time with engineers showing them where to look. Vets API is pretty monolithic. A lot of it is unorganized, also rails is a magical way of doing things so it’s hard to track it down. Most not easily documented, you gotta work on it...engineering would be easy if you just read about it

**Moderator:** You’re valuable for sure. What we’re aiming to do is to see if there’s some sort of way to ease the process for you guys. If you can’t think of anything right now, it's fine, if there is, feel free to reach out to me on slack. Anything you can give us, we can take to heart and consider.

**VFS teammate:** It’d be really convenient if you could tag documents with multiple keywords, because you or with every living document, things change. Just talking about documentation in general, there should be one unified area where it sits. 

**Moderator:** If there is one unified area it sits, what would you call that area?

**VFS teammate:** I don’t know, nomenclature is an engineer's worst nightmare. I don’t know how to name things ahhh *laughs*

**Moderator:** Where you sit, do you consider VSA being the big picture? What’s signifying being shared by everybody?

**VFS teammate:** Even though VSA and VSP are on the same codebase. Unless you guys are really trying to restrict the documentation because of API…Something clearly shared..invite you saying this is where you need to go

**Moderator:** Anything else you’d like to add?

**VFS teammate:** No, I mean I don’t know about what.Talking about VSP in general or anything like that

**Moderator:**  Right now we want to figure documentation and how we can help out the process.

**VFS teammate:**  Documentation is pretty hard to write. People also don’t like to update documentation.

**Moderator:** Why do you think that is?

**VFS teammate:**  People just don’t think about it. Swaggerdocs is like that right now, it needs to be updated. We can’t represent our stuff properly. People don’t like writing documents. That’s the main thing or people don’t know where the documentation lives for things that they’re working on. 

**Moderator:** If you can think of anything that comes to mind, please slack me.

**VFS teammate:** Hope I was semi-helpful.  
