# Call Center Focus Group
## Attendees
Sophia Philip  
Dawn Munoz  
Carolyn Williams  

Beth Ackbar  
Wendy Haines  
Kelsi Hampton  
Chante Lantos-swett  
Akeem Caldwell  
Kelly Strzepek  
Darren Teta  
Brenda Torres-Hill  
Jenny Watson  


## Purpose of call: Review support guide document 

### USiP Site Impact table
Chante: VA Health and Benefit App is the same as VA flagship mobile app. HRC Help Desk is POC for OCC mobile apps. We want both contacts. Brenda will share

Carnetta in chat: MHV is the same as My HealtheVet. Perhaps MHV should be MHV VSignals then Kophie is the POC

- Update table with identified POC's, update general language in document to be more hollistic of changes coming, speaking to phased approach and which app will change when, include hyperlink to Executive Orders

### Rerouting through ID.me
Carnetta: The However sentence includes Login.gov, and it’s just thrown in there. Here the ID.me is the multi factor, not an account.

- Update support guide to include screenshot of ID.me multifactor flow. Remove inclusion of Login.gov in the paragraph, be more specific about ID.me's challenges with Veterans.

### Communication Campaign Schedule
Would you like the schedule continuously updated incrementally or have one schedule even if not final?

Carnetta: a projection of the schedule is helpful for help desk.  

Carnetta: Having the apps that will be affected, include those as well. So they can see what will be addressed in time. 

- Update schedule to include a projection of campaign channels and the apps affected over time. 

### Include full hyperlink
The discussion guide features hyperlinks to resources throughout, depending on the process flow for reps, is that useful or redundant?
Darren: Keep hyperlinks as reps will view document online 

### ID.me specifics
- Update to include language to the effect of "If Veterans don’t have a US social security number, use ID.me"

## Next Steps
- Set monthly meeting schedule and align on invite list
- Update support guide with feedback identified above, to be delivered Sept 18.
