# Staff-Facing Check-In & Workflow Discovery Group Interview Conversation Guide
## Research Questions:
-	What is the staff experience of check in, patient tracking?
    -	How does experience vary by role / department / clinic / appointment type?
- Do staff use or have access to VSE during check-in?
-	What are pain points for staff for each of the tools involved & in general?
-	What is working well about existing processes & tools?
-	What are the admin-level needs being met by VETlink software / patient flow management tools?
-	How has COVID era changed check-in needs and process?


## Moderator logistics
- Use #feedback-backchannel in Slack for real-time feedback from observers.
- Mute your Slack notifications
- Before the session, send out the observer instructions to your observers (Slackbot will do this for you if you type "observer instructions" into #feedback-backchannel).
- In the Attendees section, make sure everyone except the participant is on mute.
- In the Audio section, click the drop-down arrow and make sure "Play Entry/Exit Chimes" is unchecked
- Check your screensharing setup and share permissions for participants.
- When the participant is ready, begin the session with the following intro
## Project-specific setup
-	Mural board prepped (if using)
## Intro - 5 minutes
Hi everyone, thank you all so much for taking time out of your day to talk with us. I'm [name], I'll be guiding our conversation today. A few of my colleagues are on the call to take notes and listen in.

I’ll give a bit of background on why we want to talk to you all and then tell you a bit about what this hour is going to look like. So, the team I'm working with is looking at how VA medical centers and CBOCs currently handle checking Veterans in and tracking Veteran through their appointment or services. As you know, the kiosk tool and VetLink software that many sites use are being decommissioned in the next year, and we are talking to staff as well as Veterans to make sure that what is built in its place meets the needs of everyone involved. 

What I'm hoping we will do today is have a conversation about how check in and patient tracking work at your facility, what’s working and what’s not working. I know you are all involved at different levels and different points in the process, I want to hear about each of your perspectives. I expect there to be differences in your perspectives, and that is actually really helpful. The purpose of this conversation is not to reach any sort of consensus. 

Before we start, a few things I want to mention:
- This entire session should take about 60 min. I want to be sure not to keep you much longer, so I may occasionally prompt you with the next question or topic.
- In this session, we want to hear your honest opinions. There are no right or wrong answers. I’m not going to be offended, I’m interested in honesty.
- I know you all have other responsibilities besides talking to me for an hour, so if you have to hop off at any time, we understand. 
- Are you comfortable if I record my screen and audio as we talk today? We use the recordings to confirm that we have captured your opinions accurately. The recordings are destroyed after we complete analysis, and none of your comments will be attributed to you directly.
  - If yes: Once I start recording, I am going to confirm that you are ok with me recording this session once more.
__Start recording.__
- I have started recording. I'd like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record the audio as we talk today?

## Warm-up Questions - 10 minutes
Let's start with a quick round of introductions, you all might know each other, but my colleagues and I don't know you.

* **If you could share your name (and pronouns if you’d like to share them) & how your current role connects to check-in and patient tracking.**
> **P1**: Program Application specialist for Puget Sound. We do:
>   * Data management, reporting and processing requests for service line attendees and county corrections
>   * Catastrophic disability placements, name changes and clinic builds
>   
>   We support administrative services as a layer between IT and them. Work with kiosk services. Technical in that part of the kiosk; we help if there is a paper jam, if it's down. Then the IT support team deals with software for check-in. 
>   
>   I am a Veteran and I use the VA as health care facility. Very in tune with the items going away and replace. Also work with cerner for the stuff that will be replaced in future

> **P2**: Program Application Specialist. We: 
>   * Make it easy for each clinic to get the help they need
>   * Make sure the daily errors are fixed so their processes can go on smoothly


Thanks for doing that, gives me a bit more context for our conversation. 

One more question for each of you to answer before we dive in. Could you each go around and in one word describe... 
- The process of checking in Veterans to your facility

>   __P1__: "Repetitive" Easy, it's pretty easy right now.

>   __P2__: "Depends"

- The process of queuing and tracking patients through their appointments and services at your facility
>    __P1__: "Confusing." Right now, we have different systems that are VistA related. Have to look in ICB, patient chart, CPRS, VistA. There's a host of apps that the appointment or encounter touches. Most of it is done through VistA or VistA GUI, but until its completed, its not always the easiest to track because there are so many applications it touches.

>    __P2__: "Frustrating."

## Task Intro - 2 minutes
Okay, now we're going to dive into it.

## First Task: Check-In - 15 minutes
-	What are the different ways a Veteran can check-in at your facility? (listen for IMH, Kiosk, Clerk)
>    __P1__: Phone app depending if that’s the type of appt they have (virtual appt)

>    __P2__: Kiosk or front desk

-   **For staff, which works best?**
>    __P1__: Kiosk or ICB (Insurance Capture Buffer system). Easiest is kiosk. If not working properly, front desk manually checks in patient and then prints out encounter form. (Based on experiences from a couple of years ago.) 
>    Virtual appointment as a veteran is easy for me.

>    __P2__: They can many times have other insurance

-   **What is ICB?**
>    __P1__: 
>	 * Need name, dob, SSN
>	 * We're supposed to update their account. 
>	 * They are supposed to start at the kiosk and end up at the desk
>	 * See appts listed, pull up sheet, and update any insurance information that patients have.
>    (ICB is) A way they bring revenue into facility. Bill for private insurance items if they have it. 
>    It's not a VistA program. It has scanners built in to take a copy of their insurance form. Possible revenues. A given staff member would have the program open. 
>    Most don’t use VistA, will use VSE. Cerner is supposed to replace VSE.
>    If there is a glitch, then they'll have to go into VistA. They'll have CPRS, VSE, ICB, and VETlink open. They can check through VETlink, which the kiosk also uses.

-   **Difference in check-in for clinical vs lab?**
>    __P1__: Most clinical use CPRS and another program, not VistA. Clinical don’t use the scheduling package much. Only front office.
>
>    Radiology - Uses another program and Vista/VSE, VetLink
>    
>    TRM/Call Center - There's another app for staff to staff messages (TRM Telecare Record Managing system). Usually from the call center. Patient wants to give a message to their care team. They uses VistA data and CPRS.
>    
>    Lab - Use VETlink for queueing, with different screens for them to use. 
>    
>    Technicians - Probably use CPRS
>    
>    EEBO (eligibility) uses various applications, connecting from VBA to VHA for a multitude of verification and name changes, sexual orientation requests. No CPRS but use other areas of VistA and other apps that the rest of the hospital doesn't use.

-   **Collecting identity and next of kin info, how often is this verified?**
>    __P1__: Next of kin not part of check in, mostly eligibility. they can call in and have it annotated in their file or by EEBO. 
>    For check in is it's just name, dob, ssn, address, insurance capture for private health insurance

-   **How do staff know when insurance needs to be updated?**
>    __P1__: They know tricare every 6 months and other non-reimbursables 6 months
>    Reimbursables should be asked every time
>    A lot of times vets are unwilling to provide that info. they sent out flyers and informational brochures explaining why they should provide this insurance information.


-   **Have they used I am here for check in?**

>    __P1__: No, we have "Am I on?" but that's for clinical use only

		
-   **If you could change one thing about the check-in process, what would it be to make it easier for staff?**
>    __P1__: Not ditch the kiosk, but have in different mechanism so you have to welcome the vet in for appt.
>    One (personal, dental) experience in non-VA facility. They had a handheld device, as soon as I came in. I typed in my info, loaded into the ipad/tablet. The next appointment, they hand me the iPad and I checked myself in.
>    
>    Interacting with the staff who is supporting. Personable. Most veterans have already had that impersonal life in their military service. Some people would like that personable experience. Most don’t like coming into hospitals anyway. Make it as welcoming as possible.
		
>    __P2__: [Add] Pre-check in. Like the kiosk, but overall nothing [to change].
		
-   **What would be appealing about precheck in?**
>    __P2__: If I'm running late, I'll be able to let them know without having to call and get three different clinics just to reach mine. Can automatically go and let them know I'm late. Instead of when I'm there.
		

-   **Do Veterans end up half-way checked in?**
>    __P1__: Yes. It allows the encounter to be checked out before being checked in. Then it ends up with a duplicate encounter and they have to figure out which is the right and which one to delete. Could bill insurance twice which could lead to all kinds of problem. Huge ripple effect, which includes no action taken encounters/checked out without being checked in.

-   **Can you track how frequently this happens?**
>    __P1__: Can see it in VSSC (data warehouse) stores trends. One of the online sources. P2 pulls errors. Daily there are a couple thousand, both clinical and admin errors.
>    
>    Depending on keystrokes can determine whether an error was made or not. Can be as easy as wrong eligibility status entered or an address correction.
>    
>    VistA is so old it glitches a lot. Daily basis. Clinical errors say something isn't right. Takes a team to figure out what needs to be corrected and who can corrected. Spend a lot of time working on encounter errors.

>    __P2__: All the time. It affects the other clinics. It causes more research to determine if they actually check in to their appt. Reimbursement impacts, affects  getting the mileage benefit.
>    The [contractor] doctors get paid off of who they see too. So they may not get paid.

>    __P1__: Errors depend on the users. Errors [can include] when a patient has an appointment scheduled after deceased because the clinic hadnt been notified.
>    What's good is that along with error itself, it tells what exactly it is and how to correct it.


    - Possible follow up prompts / make sure to cover:
        - What about these options is working well? What's not working?
        - Differences between walk-in and scheduled check-in?
        - What options are available for lab / pharm / enrollment?
        - Why are these the options in place? Was anything else considered?
        - From a staff perspective, which of these works best/worst for you? why?
        - How does your role/tasks to complete change (if at all) based upon the check in method?  
        - When are identity / insurance / contact info / next of kin etc verified?
            - How often is it verified? Why is it important to verify it that often?
            - How is this information used by yourself or other staff?
            - When a Veteran updates their contact or next of kin information, is a notification of that change sent to the Veteran? (Example: Maybe a letter is sent saying your phone number was changed on X date. If you didn't make this change, then contact X.)
        - How has check-in changed w/ COVID?
        - Did your site use I am here - the texting check-in tool? If so, how well did it work for your facility?
        - If you could change one thing about the check-in process, what would it be?
- **How do staff know that Veterans are checked in? (listen for VEText, VETlink, VSE, VistA)**
>    __P1__: Through VETlink probably and different applications in vista. So many applications to it. 

>    __P2__: VETLink, CPRS and look through doctors' notes. VistA may say it didn’t come in, but you can go through doctors' notes using the spread of tools.

````
  -	Possible follow up prompts / make sure to cover:
      - What tools do staff use to manage Veteran check-in?
      - Who needs to know that a Veteran is checked in? Do they all find out the same way?
      - __Do those staff have VSE open?__
      - Do Veterans ever end up in the waiting room without having fully completed check-in? What happens in that scenario?
      - What other hiccups come about with Check-in, how do staff manage them?
````
  
- **How do staff communicate to Veterans when they are ready for their appointment or services?**
>    __P1__: Provider comes out and gets them. 

- **For lab or pharmacy, they use a number system. How do they get the number?**
>    __P2__: From the kiosk


*    **How do staff know which Veteran to call next?**
>    __P1__: Its usually around their appt time. If they go in early, you can go to lunch and come back or I can ask the provider to fit you in. It's up to the clinic and the provider. If you've waited longer than 10 minutes, reinform the provider and check the system. 

*    **And that’s up to the Veteran?**

>    __P1__: Most front line staff are aware, they have a print out upon check in for alerting. The encounter form is staff facing. They put it in a jacket and on the door. Or provider can check VistA or CPRS or VETlink. Many tools for alerting provider.
>    With virtual, if it disconnects, they just call you as a telephone visit.


>    __P2__: When they checked the veteran in, they say it.

		
*    **What about for low-vision and non-hearing veterans?**
>    __P1__: TTY services, postcard reminder for 3 types - 1 remind, 1 recall reminder, 1 noshow/cancel reminder for hearing impaired.
>    For seeing impaired, not sure. Audiocare reminder systems

>    __P2__: Clinics are good are giving a call to those veterans, leaving messages. Staff calls back multiple times and leaving good notes in CPRS - blind, give instructions on how to proceed next.


*    **In the waiting room?**
>    __P1__: iPad would be great. There are deaf employees and they have softphone on iPad. So when they dial a specific number, someone with ASL comes on and they're able to provide sign language. Probably not for veterans. 
>    
>    There is an alert [VSE GUI/VistA] called a flag alert - behavior, infection control, etc.  Assists with instructions with what they have communicated in the past or what the VA wants them to do about this patient. Making sure you're not trying to harm the patients. Also have employee patient flags saying that you need appropriate access.

>    __P2__: Once you pull the name up, it alerts the staff they need to look for them. 

````
  - Follow ups / look out for:
      - From a staff perspective, which of these works best/worst for you? why? 
      - How do staff know which Veteran to call next?
      - What about for low-vision and non-hearing veterans?
````

- **What concerns would you have about Vets checking-in before they are physically on site versus allowing check-in to occur X minutes (maybe 10-20 minutes) before the scheduled appointment time?**
>    __P1__: Precheck is great for plane, but not hospital. There are emergencies that occur that may take doctor away for a min. Unless you have a Veteran going from one area to the next, then its good, but prior to that there is a clinical workflow that would be disrupted. And liability if anything would have happened in the parking lot.

>    __P2__: Because we pay for the mileage, it would have to be a limiter to it. Would have to let the other clinics know that the Veteran actually did come in. This is just a precheck, not necessarily arrived. Would need to verify [arrival].

- Anything important about check-in that we haven’t discussed?
- From what we've talked about regarding check-in, what is most important to each of you?
## Second Task: Patient Tracking - 15 minutes
Next let's move on to how staff communicate about where the Veteran is in their appointment or service.
-	What are the ways staff at your facility communicate about where in the process the Veteran is?
````
    - Possible follow up prompts / make sure to cover:
        -	What is working about this process? What isn't working?
        -	Why are these the options in place? Was anything else considered?
        -   From a staff perspective, which of these works best/worst for you? why? 
        -	Who needs to track this information? Do they all access it the same way?
        -	Differences between walk-in and scheduled check-in?
        -	Changed w/ COVID?
        -	Does patient tracking system allow for handoff between clinics / facilities? (ie patient has multiple appts, or multiple parts to one visit?
````

- Anything important about patient-tracking that we haven’t discussed?
- From what we've talked about regarding patient-tracking, what is most important to each of you?
## Post-Task Interview - 10 minutes
- **What capabilities of the kiosk and VetLink software would you say MUST be included within the new system (the items that can’t be removed)?**
>    **P1**: Everything in there is important for capturing their data. Would not remove anything.

>    **P2**: Travel. Seeing how much of workload was put on them. Give them another way for them to fill out their claims. 

- **What worries do you have about the Kiosk & Vet link software going away and a new check-in process/system being available in its place?**
>    **P1**: No concerns as long as they have the same criteria and something that can be mobile and wireless. Rather than a standup, print out machine. You can even go to Chik-fil-a and you can get your meal and go. I don't see why we can't have that kind of information already loaded for check-in.

>    **P2**: Piggyback on P1 on that


- If you could design check-in anyway that you wanted, what would that check-in process look like?
## Thank-You and Closing - 2 minutes
Well we really appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us today. Your feedback is so helpful to us as we continue to work on this experience for both staff and Veterans.
- Lastly, are there other folks from your site who weren’t in this conversation who have a different perspective that we should to talk to?
- Would your site be open to a site visit, where a researcher from our team observes check-in in person?
- **Any questions for me?**
>   **P1**: Are you facilitating the new software for the new kiosk?

[Facilitator (Julia): We're in early stages of research…]

>   **P1**: Thank you for asking the questions that are going to impact in a positive fashion the way we provide services to our veterans.


Great, well thank you so much again, and enjoy the rest of your day!

