# Staff-Facing Check-In & Workflow Discovery Group Interview Conversation Guide
## Research Questions:
-	What is the staff experience of check in, patient tracking?
    -	How does experience vary by role / department / clinic / appointment type?
- Do staff use or have access to VSE during check-in?
-	What are pain points for staff for each of the tools involved & in general?
-	What is working well about existing processes & tools?
-	What are the admin-level needs being met by VETlink software / patient flow management tools?
-	How has COVID era changed check-in needs and process?


## Moderator logistics
- Use #feedback-backchannel in Slack for real-time feedback from observers.
- Mute your Slack notifications
- Before the session, send out the observer instructions to your observers (Slackbot will do this for you if you type "observer instructions" into #feedback-backchannel).
- In the Attendees section, make sure everyone except the participant is on mute.
- In the Audio section, click the drop-down arrow and make sure "Play Entry/Exit Chimes" is unchecked
- Check your screensharing setup and share permissions for participants.
- When the participant is ready, begin the session with the following intro
## Project-specific setup
-	Mural board prepped (if using)
## Intro - 5 minutes
Hi everyone, thank you all so much for taking time out of your day to talk with us. I'm [name], I'll be guiding our conversation today. A few of my colleagues are on the call to take notes and listen in.

I’ll give a bit of background on why we want to talk to you all and then tell you a bit about what this hour is going to look like. So, the team I'm working with is looking at how VA medical centers and CBOCs currently handle checking Veterans in and tracking Veteran through their appointment or services. As you know, the kiosk tool and VetLink software that many sites use are being decommissioned in the next year, and we are talking to staff as well as Veterans to make sure that what is built in its place meets the needs of everyone involved. 

What I'm hoping we will do today is have a conversation about how check in and patient tracking work at your facility, what’s working and what’s not working. I know you are all involved at different levels and different points in the process, I want to hear about each of your perspectives. I expect there to be differences in your perspectives, and that is actually really helpful. The purpose of this conversation is not to reach any sort of consensus. 

Before we start, a few things I want to mention:
- This entire session should take about 60 min. I want to be sure not to keep you much longer, so I may occasionally prompt you with the next question or topic.
- In this session, we want to hear your honest opinions. There are no right or wrong answers. I’m not going to be offended, I’m interested in honesty.
- I know you all have other responsibilities besides talking to me for an hour, so if you have to hop off at any time, we understand. 
- Are you comfortable if I record my screen and audio as we talk today? We use the recordings to confirm that we have captured your opinions accurately. The recordings are destroyed after we complete analysis, and none of your comments will be attributed to you directly.
  - If yes: Once I start recording, I am going to confirm that you are ok with me recording this session once more.
__Start recording.__
- I have started recording. I'd like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record the audio as we talk today?

## Warm-up Questions - 10 minutes
Let's start with a quick round of introductions, you all might know each other, but my colleagues and I don't know you.

- **If you could share your name (and pronouns if you’d like to share them) & how your current role connects to check-in and patient tracking.**
> **P4**: Ambulatory, PACU recovery area, etc. Work in clinics use Vetlink as part of the software to check patient in, have better flow, etc.
> **P5**: Staff RN in the surgery clinic at charlie norwood va
> **P6**: CBOCS located in Inkon, SC, Athens GA, work with kiosks.


Thanks for doing that, gives me a bit more context for our conversation. 

One more question for each of you to answer before we dive in. Could you each go around and in one word describe... 
- The process of checking in Veterans to your facility

- **The process of queuing and tracking patients through their appointments and services at your facility**
> **P4**: "Void". I'm sure the capabilities are there to track every part of the process, space of time where we dont know before provider sees, while waiting in exam.
> **P6**: "User friendly" Minus the other things that I mentioned before [Still referring to check in]

- **What about managing flow? Would it be a different word?**
> **P6**: "Not necessary"

## Task Intro - 2 minutes
Okay, now we're going to dive into it.

~~Here is a simplified outline of Veteran check in, and Veteran tracking . This will serve as somewhat of a visual anchor for our conversation, and we will add some notes along the way, but primarily this is a conversation amongst you all. I’ll jump in with questions and redirects to make sure we’re covering certain things, but first and foremost, we want to hear from you all.~~
## First Task: Check-In - 15 minutes
~~Let's start on the left. The Veteran arrives onsite for an appointment or unscheduled service.~~ 
-	What are the different ways a Veteran can check-in at your facility? (listen for IMH, Kiosk, Clerk)

````
    - Possible follow up prompts / make sure to cover:
        - What about these options is working well? What's not working?
        - Differences between walk-in and scheduled check-in?
        - What options are available for lab / pharm / enrollment?
        - Why are these the options in place? Was anything else considered?
        - From a staff perspective, which of these works best/worst for you? why?
        - How does your role/tasks to complete change (if at all) based upon the check in method?  
        - When are identity / insurance / contact info / next of kin etc verified?
            - How often is it verified? Why is it important to verify it that often?
            - How is this information used by yourself or other staff?
            - When a Veteran updates their contact or next of kin information, is a notification of that change sent to the Veteran? (Example: Maybe a letter is sent saying your phone number was changed on X date. If you didn't make this change, then contact X.)
        - How has check-in changed w/ COVID?
        - Did your site use I am here - the texting check-in tool? If so, how well did it work for your facility?
        - If you could change one thing about the check-in process, what would it be?
````

- How do staff know that Veterans are checked in? (listen for VEText, VETlink, VSE, VistA)
````
  -	Possible follow up prompts / make sure to cover:
      - What tools do staff use to manage Veteran check-in?
      - Who needs to know that a Veteran is checked in? Do they all find out the same way?
      - __Do those staff have VSE open?__
      - Do Veterans ever end up in the waiting room without having fully completed check-in? What happens in that scenario?
      - What other hiccups come about with Check-in, how do staff manage them?
````

- How do staff communicate to Veterans when they are ready for their appointment or services?
````
  - Follow ups / look out for:
      - From a staff perspective, which of these works best/worst for you? why? 
      - How do staff know which Veteran to call next?
      - What about for low-vision and non-hearing veterans?
````

- What concerns would you have about Vets checking-in before they are physically on site versus allowing check-in to occur X minutes (maybe 10-20 minutes) before the scheduled appointment time?

- Checking in virtually. What concerns do you have with pre-onsite check in 30-60 min?

- Anything important about check-in that we haven’t discussed?

- Worries about decommissioned?

- From what we've talked about regarding check-in, what is most important to each of you?

## Second Task: Patient Tracking - 15 minutes
Next let's move on to how staff communicate about where the Veteran is in their appointment or service.
- **What are the steps involved in patient visit and who is tracking those steps?**
> **P4**: Once patient has checked in, they sit in waitining room. Then the nurse, if there is an exam room available, will put them in the exam room. Then there is note taking and they will notify the the provider on a post it that a patient is ready. They'll look at the clipboard to see which one is next and what room they're in.
> If theres anything else that they need to do, they'll consult with the nurse.

- **Will the providers and nurses use it to track any of that process?**
> **P4**: No, there may be more capabilities that we're not using, but after the check in, it's not being used.
> **P5**: No, we stop after the routing slip, then we go out and room them. We don't use it for anything after that.
> In the other clinics, we will use for patients who may need vascular surgery procedure before their appointment. That helps them to check that they completed that appointment there. If we see they haven't checked in there, we'll tell them they need to go do that. Or if they have an MRI, we can check if they have to do that and keep things moving that way.

- **Is there any pre-visit preparation that you do?**
> **P5**: We print through our VistA system, print clinic schedules for the day, for the following day and go through each patient to see if pre-op. If they are, we indicate if they need to get labs or x-rays or pre-screening. We create routing slips. For ortho, if they're complete joint patient, we have to create a form where they have to take a physical therapy class.
> If they need to have x-rays or any imaging prior to appointment, we briefly read through the consults. We do pprocedures there, and we can prepare that the procedure rooms will be available and staff will be available.
> We check if there are duplicate appointments - ones that didn't get canceled. We also make sure everything matches up, not scheduled more than once. Or those who have passed away and expired. We call it "scrubbing our charts for the next day."

- **Who does this?**
> **P5**: The nursing staff does all of it. The only time MSAs get involved is when we'll have to get them for scheduling and cancelling. Everything else is strictly nursing staff.

- **Does any of that get handed to patients in waiting room?**
> **P5**: No they do it in the room.

- **Are there any other ways you track?**
> **P4**: We use the routing slip on every door, so you know when the door is shut there is a patient in that room. For urology, the routing slip prints out and put into central place - file holder on the wall, in specific slot. There's a slot for pre-op, etc. If there is someone who just has a question or phone call, put in slot to get someone to answer the question.
> Put in other slots of when they checked in and what appt time they had. It's archaic. So provider will come out to check, take the slip into exam room, look up info on patient. Then hit their PA system and call the patient to their room. 
> There wasn't adecuate staffing to get people to interact with patients.
> ENT does the normal way, grab patient, put into a room and tell the provider they're ready.
> **P5**: In podiatry, if room availability, then get that slip, then go to the room. Then doctor will come out and nurse will turn the room over to them. Some want to stay in their exam room, some will have the nurse do that and turn it over.

- **Provider preferences?**
> **P4**: For the 2 hallways, there are 6 services located there. So we have to be creative, morning and afternoon. Each one has certain days and times that they're around.
> With all the different services, they have preferred ways.
> Nurse has to wait for provider to finish charting, "are you ready for your next patient." Always a good amount of patients waiting. If they have help from other volunteers, they'll use other exam rooms where they stay in that same room. It's different across the board.
> After they exit the room, nurse cleans it. And some hallways have 2 clinics

> **P5**: On most days, we'll have 2 clinics in one hall. 

> **P4**: So top of their clipboards, they'll have to say who (which clinic, provider) it is for. That's where it gets complicated. Then you have providers who prefer only certain rooms.
> We're used to it. This is our zoo, this is how we run it.

- **Are you using metrics?**
> **P4**: It's not being tracked. It wasn't that long ago that we let the nursing staff to use.

> **P5**: They don't check in other places either. We don't track in primary care either.

> **P4**: And that is important to us, we do need to track.

- **Pull in reports or metrics? Flow of patients through their visits?**
> **P6**: No, we don't.

- **What happens in the clinic when the communication drops?**
> **P5**: It can go so many different ways. Patient can be completely missed. Providers thinking they're finished for the morning. Then we have to backpeddle, track down and tell providers what happens.
> Patient satisfaction issue too. Most patients check in early, I mean like 30 min early for appointment. We had a patient come in at 10-10:30 am for 1:30 pm in the hopes they'll be seen earlier. We try to let them know.
> If they're sitting there waiting and they're missed, it affects them. And affects flow of clinic. Patient was roomed ahead of someone who was early or on time and then there are no rooms available. [We have to remove the roomed patient and replace with the missed patient] "Sorry, we have to take this patient out of room to re-room correct patient."
> [It sometimes happens when a patient is on the] Wrong provider's chart. Correct provider not knowing that the patient was there.
> A lot of providers are efficient. Even in high volume clinics, they try to stay on time, being 30 min sticklers. There's no hospital wide policies. I know MSAs are not supposed to "no show" a patient until after 1 hour is passed.
> But providers, we go after what they say, sometimes if it's after 30 min, they can't see them today.

- **How often does a patient get missed?**
> **P5**: Once a month, if even that. Not often. There are 2 halls, multiple nursing units. One nurse checking in for vital signs, one rooming, one doing other stuff. 3-4 nursing staff available to check and double check each other.
> Constantly checking Vetlink, printed schedule, checking sign in sheet, etc. There are those crazy days where only one nurse in procedure, pulled in multiple directions. But it's not very often in clinics I've worked in.

- **Last time it was mentioned that sometimes the system goes down or they haven't completely checked in. How do you handle breakdown in communications?**
> **P6**: Here we use Teams to communicate. Especially if they're really busy, we give them a heads up to give them awareness.

- **Any pre-work prep?**
> **P6**: No we don't.

- **What is the process for no show?**
> **P6**: Some of the providers are different, if it's been 15 or 30 min, sometimes that's a no show. Some will wait to the end of the day, may wait until they have a free time, if at all possible. And then some of the nurses will let us know. Since everyone is so flexible, there's no specific rule. If it's [the appointment] a call or something, then they may call later.
> I run an encounter report at the end of the day. If there's no note, I reach out to doctor or nurse or provider and ask if I should mark them as a no show.

- **What changes would make it easier for staff to communicate**
> **P5**: I think it would be nice if it changed the patient column or row to a different color. When you look it's all the same color. Sometime they don't complete the process and it doesn't change and we need that for the routing slip.
> Once they complete, it would change color. That way we can clearly see who didn't check in. And it would improve our efficiency. I like that the routing slips have the check in time.

> **P4**: If all the clinics and staff followed the same process because my staff rotate to different clinics. So they have to learn the quirks for each of the clinics. Sometimes it wouldn't be possible based on space, so that's only to an exent. Logistically going to be barriers or 
> "the way weve always done it." Now with Vetlink and everyone using it from MSA to Nurse to Provider, everyone should have a hand in putting down the information of where it is or should be. They would need to be well versed to put in information.

> **P6**: I don't think there's too much you can do to make it easier, nothing you can do to make it easier. 
> I think the only thing if there was something taken out for patient on the kiosk, it will alleviate them from thinking. At the end of the day, the MSAs are checking those things afterward so they might as well take that out.
> As far as communicating, I don't have anything for you.

- **Check out process?**
> **P4**: From a nursing standpoint, if there's a return to clinic (RTC) order, they need to return in timeframe, we escort to MSA area, and they take it from there. The only time we would if MSAs call us because they dont have an RTC order, we'll get that by communicating with providers.
> **P6**: That's correct, we are scheduling the return to clinic (RTC) orders, update emails, video appointments, rescheduling and confirming, things of that nature. Return to Clinic - entered through cprs and we schedule using the GUI vista program, it rolls into that.



````
    - Possible follow up prompts / make sure to cover:
        -	What is working about this process? What isn't working?
        -	Why are these the options in place? Was anything else considered?
        -   From a staff perspective, which of these works best/worst for you? why? 
        -	Who needs to track this information? Do they all access it the same way?
        -	Differences between walk-in and scheduled check-in?
        -	Changed w/ COVID?
        -	Does patient tracking system allow for handoff between clinics / facilities? (ie patient has multiple appts, or multiple parts to one visit?
````

- **Anything important to you all we havent discussed**
> **P4**: Everything we discussed, I think that's all important.
> **P6**: Not from me, I appreciate giving our input.

- From what we've talked about regarding patient-tracking, what is most important to each of you?

## Post-Task Interview - 10 minutes
- What capabilities of the kiosk and VetLink software would you say MUST be included within the new system (the items that can’t be removed)?

- What worries do you have about the Kiosk & Vet link software going away and a new check-in process/system being available in its place?

- If you could design check-in anyway that you wanted, what would that check-in process look like?

## Thank-You and Closing - 2 minutes
Well we really appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us today. Your feedback is so helpful to us as we continue to work on this experience for both staff and Veterans.
- Lastly, are there other folks from your site who weren’t in this conversation who have a different perspective that we should to talk to?

- **Would your site be open to a site visit, where a researcher from our team observes check-in in person?**
> **P4**: Yes

> **P5**: Yes

> **P6**: Yes, as long as it's cleared, sure!

- Any questions for me?

Great, well thank you so much again, and enjoy the rest of your day!

