# Staff-Facing Check-In & Workflow Discovery Group Interview Conversation Guide
## Research Questions:
-	What is the staff experience of check in, patient tracking?
    -	How does experience vary by role / department / clinic / appointment type?
- Do staff use or have access to VSE during check-in?
-	What are pain points for staff for each of the tools involved & in general?
-	What is working well about existing processes & tools?
-	What are the admin-level needs being met by VETlink software / patient flow management tools?
-	How has COVID era changed check-in needs and process?


## Moderator logistics
- Use #feedback-backchannel in Slack for real-time feedback from observers.
- Mute your Slack notifications
- Before the session, send out the observer instructions to your observers (Slackbot will do this for you if you type "observer instructions" into #feedback-backchannel).
- In the Attendees section, make sure everyone except the participant is on mute.
- In the Audio section, click the drop-down arrow and make sure "Play Entry/Exit Chimes" is unchecked
- Check your screensharing setup and share permissions for participants.
- When the participant is ready, begin the session with the following intro
## Project-specific setup
-	Mural board prepped (if using)

## Intro - 5 minutes
Hi everyone, thank you all so much for taking time out of your day to talk with us. I'm [name], I'll be guiding our conversation today. A few of my colleagues are on the call to take notes and listen in.

I’ll give a bit of background on why we want to talk to you all and then tell you a bit about what this hour is going to look like. So, the team I'm working with is looking at how VA medical centers and CBOCs currently handle checking Veterans in and tracking Veteran through their appointment or services. As you know, the kiosk tool and VetLink software that many sites use are being decommissioned in the next year, and we are talking to staff as well as Veterans to make sure that what is built in its place meets the needs of everyone involved. 

What I'm hoping we will do today is have a conversation about how check in and patient tracking work at your facility, what’s working and what’s not working. I know you are all involved at different levels and different points in the process, I want to hear about each of your perspectives. I expect there to be differences in your perspectives, and that is actually really helpful. The purpose of this conversation is not to reach any sort of consensus. 

Before we start, a few things I want to mention:
- This entire session should take about 60 min. I want to be sure not to keep you much longer, so I may occasionally prompt you with the next question or topic.
- In this session, we want to hear your honest opinions. There are no right or wrong answers. I’m not going to be offended, I’m interested in honesty.
- I know you all have other responsibilities besides talking to me for an hour, so if you have to hop off at any time, we understand. 
- Are you comfortable if I record my screen and audio as we talk today? We use the recordings to confirm that we have captured your opinions accurately. The recordings are destroyed after we complete analysis, and none of your comments will be attributed to you directly.
  - If yes: Once I start recording, I am going to confirm that you are ok with me recording this session once more.
__Start recording.__
- I have started recording. I'd like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record the audio as we talk today?

## Warm-up Questions - 10 minutes
Let's start with a quick round of introductions, you all might know each other, but my colleagues and I don't know you.

* **If you could share your name (and pronouns if you’d like to share them) & how your current role connects to check-in and patient tracking.**
> **P3**: My responsibility include assigning the role for superusers and supervisors for our site. Vetlink running smoothly. Giving people training, coordinating with management on a regular basis. Pull management report monthly, pass to superusers and management level. 
> Air traffic controller, make sure everything runs smoothly. monitor daily, vetlink applications, no issues. 
> Monthly open meeting for VETlink. National meeting once a month - super users attend that meeting

- **Is that for all clinics in Puget Sound?**
>  **P3**: CBOCS for puget sound. Citadel, Orangelous (sp?), Mount Vernon, Bell View, Lake City


Thanks for doing that, gives me a bit more context for our conversation. 

One more question for each of you to answer before we dive in. Could you each go around and in one word describe... 
- **The process of checking in Veterans to your facility**
>   __P3__: "Responsible, responsibility"

- **The process of queuing and tracking patients through their appointments and services at your facility**
>    __P3__: "Workflow" 

- **If you had to sum it up, how would you?**
>    __P3__: Manage the workflow and get Veterans to check in

## Task Intro - 2 minutes
Okay, now we're going to dive into it.

## First Task: Check-In - 15 minutes
-	**What are the different ways a Veteran can check-in at your facility? (listen for IMH, Kiosk, Clerk)**
>    __P3__: Kiosk, but heard they can use the mobile in certain sites. At this time, just kiosk or go to staff face-to-face.
>  Kiosks are distributed across the the facility where they can check in.

-  **What are the differences between walk in vs check in?**
>    __P3__: Walk in patients happen at the laboratory, pharmacy, and ED area. Other clinics it's mostly the scheduled patient workflow.

-  **Do you work with them to build that workflow?**
>  __P3__: Give to superusers to set it up, but as site administrator, I may help them to set it up.
>  But they are responsible for managing the workflow and check in process. If theres issues with kiosk, they come to me.

-  **What type of issues?**
>  **P3**: The kiosks are 9 years old. So frozen screen most of the time, flickering, different colors. It's time to replace.

-  **When that happens, can you fix on your own?**
>  **P3**: No, I have to call vendor, but I trouble shoot first. If it's still having issues and not booting up or panel is going bad, then, I'll request replacement from Vetlink. Usually less than week for the replacement.
> They send the technician to replace

-  **How frequently?**
>  **P3**: About 3 kiosks a month across all of the sites, depending on traffic. Slow traffic area not as much.


-  **How has check-in changed with COVID?**
>  **P3**: Just added work flow, questionairy workflow - do you have symptom...Just that workflow before checkin process. In the kiosk

		
-   **If you could change one thing about the check-in process, what would it be to make it easier for staff?**
>    __P3__: Haven't thought about it. Use phone to check in, people dont like to use kiosk. Some sites turned off kiosks during COVID. Or they can call in?

-   **How would those easier for staff?**
> P3: I don't know if its easier or not. I cant tell you that, if someones going to check in, theyre going to check in.
> As long as patient checked in, its easier for staff.
		

-   **Do Veterans end up half-way checked in?**
>    __P3__: Every day. Monitor this daily. It's in VETlink, if it's not complete. Patient has appt, but doesn't fully check in, it says "Signed in". It should say check in. Mentioned this to staff - if you see "sign in" instead, it means it could be wrong area or they didnt check in.


-  **Does the status in vetlink that says something has been done but not complete?**
>  __P3__: Yes. There is a notification that they would have to click into in the status column to see more detail, but they dont always do that.
>  Vetlink app is old so they still use access and verify code, like VistA.

- **Do you use vettext?**
>  __P3__: Yes. Most provider and nurses don't use VistA at all so they forget codes. So they call daily that they cant login. PIV doesnt work for this.
>  You have to reset your verify code going through VistA themselves. It'll prompt them to reset. Then once reset, they can go back to vetlink. Verify only good for 90 days.

- **Do they get a warning from Vetlink?**
>  __P3__: Not from Vetlink, not like VistA.

- **For other systems they use PIV?**
>  __P3__: yes. And even super users have this issue.

## User's Vetlink Walkthrough - 15 minutes

>  __P3__: When they have the status "insurance assistance required", Veterans can not check in. They need to go directly person. They cant do it from kiosk.
> [Shows Signed In status with warning icon and Signed In status without warning icon]
>  Can click Notifications and see "wrong area" listed for the notification. I told staff, if you dont see patient in your area, if you click their name, it will tell you what kiosk he was trying to check in
> And it says building. So it will give you a little bit more detail. I can look up where this clinic belongs to give me more info on where the clinic is.
> If it's brand new clinic, it will say "no cliniics to display"

- **How often?**
>  __P3__: Depends, but it will need superuser to add clinic info to Vetlink. And if its not connected, then it may automatically say "wrong area"

- **Why would a new clinic get added?**
>  __P3__: Maybe new provider on board so they need it created. If its not added, it'll say wrong area in the notifications.

- **Whats the difference between signed in and started interaction**
>  __P3__: Signed in is for lab ed area. But other than that it should be "checked in"
> Started interaction looks like theres no info with it
> [Brought up slide. Notfications listed on Vetlink for all the potential interruptions.]

-  **How do staff resolve check in?**
>  __P3__:  When they see that this patient try to check in but doesnt say checked in. 
> Then the staff checks them in manually. From searching patient in vetlink, look up details and check them in

-  **Theres no digital support to inform the check in was not done?**
>  __P3__: If theres noone at the front desk, staff may look for them. 

- **Is front desk in the given clinic or central front desk?**
>  __P3__: In given clinic.

> So this clinic is not in Vetlink. Sometimes I try to help them and edit clinic for the superusers since they're busy. That way next time it won't say "wrong area"

-  **And it look like there are other things you can control?**
>  __P3__: If they have a new clinic, then they have to add in 2 places, one for kiosk group and one for the templates.
>  Adding that clinic to the template - either checkbox add to all clinics or manually add to specific.
> So that building can check in any clinics. They can figure out how to deal with other clinics

-  **We've heard about others having to reconcile errors in VSSC?**
>  __P3__: No, usually i dont deal with VSSC.

````
    - Possible follow up prompts / make sure to cover:
        - What about these options is working well? What's not working?
        - Differences between walk-in and scheduled check-in?
        - What options are available for lab / pharm / enrollment?
        - Why are these the options in place? Was anything else considered?
        - From a staff perspective, which of these works best/worst for you? why?
        - How does your role/tasks to complete change (if at all) based upon the check in method?  
        - When are identity / insurance / contact info / next of kin etc verified?
            - How often is it verified? Why is it important to verify it that often?
            - How is this information used by yourself or other staff?
            - When a Veteran updates their contact or next of kin information, is a notification of that change sent to the Veteran? (Example: Maybe a letter is sent saying your phone number was changed on X date. If you didn't make this change, then contact X.)
        - How has check-in changed w/ COVID?
        - Did your site use I am here - the texting check-in tool? If so, how well did it work for your facility?
        - If you could change one thing about the check-in process, what would it be?
````

- **How do staff know that Veterans are checked in? (listen for VEText, VETlink, VSE, VistA)**

````
  -	Possible follow up prompts / make sure to cover:
      - What tools do staff use to manage Veteran check-in?
      - Who needs to know that a Veteran is checked in? Do they all find out the same way?
      - __Do those staff have VSE open?__
      - Do Veterans ever end up in the waiting room without having fully completed check-in? What happens in that scenario?
      - What other hiccups come about with Check-in, how do staff manage them?
````
  
- How do staff communicate to Veterans when they are ready for their appointment or services?


````
  - Follow ups / look out for:
      - From a staff perspective, which of these works best/worst for you? why? 
      - How do staff know which Veteran to call next?
      - What about for low-vision and non-hearing veterans?
````

- What concerns would you have about Vets checking-in before they are physically on site versus allowing check-in to occur X minutes (maybe 10-20 minutes) before the scheduled appointment time?

- Anything important about check-in that we haven’t discussed?

- From what we've talked about regarding check-in, what is most important to each of you?


## Second Task: Patient Tracking - 15 minutes
Next let's move on to how staff communicate about where the Veteran is in their appointment or service.
-	What are the ways staff at your facility communicate about where in the process the Veteran is?
-  **While you have VEtlink up. Do they use this to communicate where patients are?**

>  __P3__: Yes. Activity buttons in vetlink. Patient show up, they will call. This is a really good tool
>  When patient check in using kiosk. Staff at front desk dont need to call back side. Provider or nurse has access, so they can see, they just go on and get them.
>  They know exactly where patient is with staff.
>  Memo tab they can communicate notes, like chatting type anything they want to.
>  Clinical side use the activity buttons. It will make anouncement, then they will click each one as the patient goes through.
>  They utilize these buttons really well.

- **Are there reports you generate for how much those buttons are used?**
>  __P3__: Yes we do have those reports. Gives you information about walk in and queueing. [Reports are standardized]
>  They'll pull these reports to see their status.

- **Do you get resistance from staff?**
>  __P3__: How long have these technicians have been... Gives you times on how long. 

- **What do you hear from staff?**
> __P3__:The supervisors track how much time you're spending, they can pull reports. How much time spent on each patient.
> Supervisors like the visibility?
> Yes, that is correct

- **Does wait time track check in and calling the patient?**
> __P3__:Yes. Clinics use this report.

- **Would you have concerns allowing vets to check in early?**
> __P3__:Could be issue. We talked about this a month ago. With some other site, would you like them to use?
> When checkin from home vvc is fine. But they should be inside the facility. I don't think that's a good idea.
> When check in but not there, maybe they're lost. Or no show.
> If the nurse is looking for them and theyre not there, going to be issue.
> We have possibility to set up wayfinding on the kiosk. We started this 4 years ago. We turned it off.
> Because patient had appoint 6th floor different building. Nurse was looking for them. Patient went to starbucks, coffee, show up
> Half hour later, marked as no show. We turned that off for that clinic. It was too far from check in area.
> If they are in diff building, they get lost. Or kiosk print so small font, its hard to read it. It doesnt work well with wayfinding
> A year ago, vendor try to set up gps. Havent heard from them yet.
> Without a direct system, theres concerns about patients finding the clinic.
> It doesnt really work well for wayfinding unless they print 8x11 big font. Its like a receipt printing from kiosk.

- **What other ways do they get info about where appt is?**
> __P3__: It would be good idea to have like in the mall, they have a big display you are here or somebody can program in kiosk, you are here, diagram, that would be nice.
> Most new patients will ask employess or use directory on the wall. They can give them direction on how to get there.

- **If they checked in at home, would they use the same methods to find their appt?**
> __P3__: That is really not a good idea to check in at home.

- **When folks dont show up, what is the impact on your work?**
> __P3__: I dont have answer for that one. They say they check in, but dont show up. They may lose credibility. No good answer for that.

- **What are impacts now for check in but then doesnt make to their appointment?**
> __P3__: It would be impact that other patient cant schedule the appointment. It would be nice to cancel beforehand so other patient can use that appt.


````
    - Possible follow up prompts / make sure to cover:
        -	What is working about this process? What isn't working?
        -	Why are these the options in place? Was anything else considered?
        -   From a staff perspective, which of these works best/worst for you? why? 
        -	Who needs to track this information? Do they all access it the same way?
        -	Differences between walk-in and scheduled check-in?
        -	Changed w/ COVID?
        -	Does patient tracking system allow for handoff between clinics / facilities? (ie patient has multiple appts, or multiple parts to one visit?
````

- Anything important about patient-tracking that we haven’t discussed?
> __P3__: I think we talked most. Most area, new clinic when get built. Vetlink not communicating with vista. Thats all I have for now. If I have more, I can contact you if I have any ideas.

- **Anything to make it easier for staff?**
> __P3__: Not really, theres no need to change at this time.

- From what we've talked about regarding patient-tracking, what is most important to each of you?


## Post-Task Interview - 10 minutes
- **What capabilities of the kiosk and VetLink software would you say MUST be included within the new system (the items that can’t be removed)?**
>    **P3**: Check in process is easier than vista, updating demographics so patient can update all that and next of kin using kiosk, print future appointments or look it up.
>  If theres information about anything their missing, can look it up. And before, they could submit travel claims. I don't know why they removed from kiosk. Theyre trying to go electronically, so why dont they new upgrade kiosk with VTESS so they can use the equipment.

- **What worries do you have about the Kiosk & Vet link software going away and a new check-in process/system being available in its place?**
>    **P3**: This equipment is old, so we need software need to be updated. Travel, wayfinding better system, better function. Check in process is good, they love it.

- If you could design check-in anyway that you wanted, what would that check-in process look like?

## Thank-You and Closing - 2 minutes
Well we really appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us today. Your feedback is so helpful to us as we continue to work on this experience for both staff and Veterans.
- **Lastly, are there other folks from your site who weren’t in this conversation who have a different perspective that we should to talk to?**
> **P3**: Yes, her name is Molly, she used to be a supervisor and she can give you some good background.

- **In what capacity?**
> **P3**: In scheduling staff. She's off today, so hopefully she'll be back tomorrow. Thats it for our staff.

- Would your site be open to a site visit, where a researcher from our team observes check-in in person?

- Any questions for me?

Great, well thank you so much again, and enjoy the rest of your day!
Thank you, if i have more i will reach out to you
