# Staff-Facing Check-In & Workflow Discovery Group Interview Conversation Guide
## Research Questions:
-	What is the staff experience of check in, patient tracking?
    -	How does experience vary by role / department / clinic / appointment type?
- Do staff use or have access to VSE during check-in?
-	What are pain points for staff for each of the tools involved & in general?
-	What is working well about existing processes & tools?
-	What are the admin-level needs being met by VETlink software / patient flow management tools?
-	How has COVID era changed check-in needs and process?


## Moderator logistics
- Use #feedback-backchannel in Slack for real-time feedback from observers.
- Mute your Slack notifications
- Before the session, send out the observer instructions to your observers (Slackbot will do this for you if you type "observer instructions" into #feedback-backchannel).
- In the Attendees section, make sure everyone except the participant is on mute.
- In the Audio section, click the drop-down arrow and make sure "Play Entry/Exit Chimes" is unchecked
- Check your screensharing setup and share permissions for participants.
- When the participant is ready, begin the session with the following intro
## Project-specific setup
-	Mural board prepped (if using)
## Intro - 5 minutes
Hi everyone, thank you all so much for taking time out of your day to talk with us. I'm [name], I'll be guiding our conversation today. A few of my colleagues are on the call to take notes and listen in.

I’ll give a bit of background on why we want to talk to you all and then tell you a bit about what this hour is going to look like. So, the team I'm working with is looking at how VA medical centers and CBOCs currently handle checking Veterans in and tracking Veteran through their appointment or services. As you know, the kiosk tool and VetLink software that many sites use are being decommissioned in the next year, and we are talking to staff as well as Veterans to make sure that what is built in its place meets the needs of everyone involved. 

What I'm hoping we will do today is have a conversation about how check in and patient tracking work at your facility, what’s working and what’s not working. I know you are all involved at different levels and different points in the process, I want to hear about each of your perspectives. I expect there to be differences in your perspectives, and that is actually really helpful. The purpose of this conversation is not to reach any sort of consensus. 

Before we start, a few things I want to mention:
- This entire session should take about 60 min. I want to be sure not to keep you much longer, so I may occasionally prompt you with the next question or topic.
- In this session, we want to hear your honest opinions. There are no right or wrong answers. I’m not going to be offended, I’m interested in honesty.
- I know you all have other responsibilities besides talking to me for an hour, so if you have to hop off at any time, we understand. 
- Are you comfortable if I record my screen and audio as we talk today? We use the recordings to confirm that we have captured your opinions accurately. The recordings are destroyed after we complete analysis, and none of your comments will be attributed to you directly.
  - If yes: Once I start recording, I am going to confirm that you are ok with me recording this session once more.
__Start recording.__
- I have started recording. I'd like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record the audio as we talk today?

## Warm-up Questions - 10 minutes
Let's start with a quick round of introductions, you all might know each other, but my colleagues and I don't know you.

- **If you could share your name (and pronouns if you’d like to share them) & how your current role connects to check-in and patient tracking.**
>    __P1__: Nurse Manager for asc and pacu area. Managing people who use the Vetlink software. Not too much experience using it, but P2 is familiar with using it. They used in primary care clinic and it was instrumental there.

>    __P2__: Staff RN in charlie alwood (sp?). Transferred last year. Uses Vetlink eveyday there. Saw it would be beneficial in surgery clinic as well. We use it everyday. Between podiatry and 1D clinic. Podiatry - The check in meets in front of station and we (nurses) help them. But in 1d, MSAs are front line and patients check in with them first.

>    __P3__: Lead MSA for CBOCS in Aiken, Athens, Statesboro. Oversee with the kiosk, when they do updates, and alert when something goes wrong

Thanks for doing that, gives me a bit more context for our conversation. 

One more question for each of you to answer before we dive in. Could you each go around and in one word describe... 
- **The process of checking in Veterans to your facility**
>    __P3__: User-friendly. Its a good tool letting the nurses know when patients are there.

>    __P2__: P3 took my word [User-friendly]. I've actually be present to assist them with check in. I feel the accessibility and design is user friendly. We run into problems when they don't have card. That trips them up, hitting continue [in the process], and fully following through. There's times they don't complete, they think they're done and sit down.
> With everyone having access to Vetlink, we reduce the time. We're constantly watching the flow, so when we see ita patient come up, we highlight on our clinic's calendar. There's a category that says Checked In and we're able to let the MSA know they checked in. User friendly on patient and staff side.

>    __P1__: "Sometimes user-friendly." 18-19 months in position. Not quite the opposite of user friendly, but sometimes patients would half check in and staff wouldn't know. The nurse would come out to find out why they're late. If Veteran uses screen and follows prompts correctly it works. But sometimes they don't.

>    __P3__: We have had some of that experience with the CBOCS, especially with elderly it may be too many questions. If there were fewer questions [it may help them complete check in].


- The process of queuing and tracking patients through their appointments and services at your facility

## Task Intro - 2 minutes
Okay, now we're going to dive into it.

~~Here is a simplified outline of Veteran check in, and Veteran tracking . This will serve as somewhat of a visual anchor for our conversation, and we will add some notes along the way, but primarily this is a conversation amongst you all. I’ll jump in with questions and redirects to make sure we’re covering certain things, but first and foremost, we want to hear from you all.~~
## First Task: Check-In - 15 minutes
~~Let's start on the left. The Veteran arrives onsite for an appointment or unscheduled service.~~ 
-	What are the different ways a Veteran can check-in at your facility? (listen for IMH, Kiosk, Clerk)

- **It sounds like length is a factor. How do you recover when half checked in? What is impacted?**
> P1: It causes delay, patient dissatisfaction. They're never going to say "It's my fault." They blame the people, the system. So now there's a disruption in clinic flow and they need to be squeezed in between other patients' appointments.
> Usually 4 patients scheduled per timeslot. Then, in the next one you'll have 5, then it will bump the next timeslot [cascading]. Then patients get upset for congestion.

>    __P2__: Patient dissatisfaction. Some are very frustrated. Some bypass kiosk altogether due to past experiences, go straight to MSA.
> It slows flow of clinic. Nursing staff monitors Vetlink but our clinics are busy. It may be 30 min before you can go back to the monitor. It may be a while before you get the update. It is sometimes missed, not a 100% guarantee.
> The amount of questions, Next of kin, confirmation, sometimes patients just want to change things and it doesn't go the way it should. So they dont continue through.
> That should be looked at. And when they don't have their VA card, it prompts them to complete verification. The way years, dates are shown to verify who they are makes them overhelmed with double identity verification when they dont have their card

-  **Other dropoffs?**
> __P2__: Verify insurance and next of kin are problematic.
>  __P3__: And all those demographic questions could be taken off. As MSAs we have to ask those questions at check out anyway, so demographics are not necessary.

-  **What else isn't essential?**
> __P3__: insurance, sometimes it doesn't go through, so we still have them on our list to update. There seems to be a disconnect, so they have to talk to MSA anyway. Next week they come back for labs and it asks for insurance again. So common complaint.

- **When update their contact or next  of kin, do they get notified about that change?**
>    __P3__: not to my knowledge

- **What do you see on the Vetlink side? How do you know something went wrong?**
>    __P3__: It says "No appointments for check in" - late or wrong day. Or gives you some type of warning. Let's you know it misses next of kin.
> However, since we're so busy, we may not see it at that time or within a reasonable time. They need to have something flashing like teams to let you know something happens.

>    __P2__: I roatate between 2 clinics, when its complete it generates an encounter. The nurses are in the back, so we don't see them when they check in. We rely on vetlink to know patient is there. There's a column will show they check in. From that point, we get up to get the routing slip.
> If not printed, then we notify the MSA we need the slip. 

- **If no routing slip or says something in Vetlink?**
>    __P2__: We dont move forward without routing slip, then we go to MSA. Sometimes we go and get the patient and eventually we get the slip. We try to make sure theyre checked in

- **Routing slip = encounter form?**
> **P2**: Yes.

- **What happens if the Veterans are Blind or hard of hearing?**
> **P1**: Most check in through MSA, accompanied by someone or they already know to check in with MSA. I've never encountered someone who didn't know they could get assistance.

- **Did you make adjustments with covid?**
> **P2**: In Primary care, the kiosks were off limits. I can't remember when we re-opened. Then at one point it was all virtual so traffic all stopped. 
> Signage on kiosk to remind washing hands and use hand sanitizers, still there. Movement to clinic since vaccine clinic relocated, so we had to move kiosks

- **Do you use VEText or I am Here?**
> **P1**: Yes we use that but it hasnt been very effective. More than kiosk, theyre having issues with VEText
> **P2**: Feedback I received is veteran would follow proper steps but nobody would ever notify them to come up. So it was a disconnect somewhere.

- **Do Staff use VEText?**
> **P2**: Not in my areas. It all of a sudden implemented but no education or notification to the staff. Staff found out from negative feedback
> **P3**: Are they going to link VEText to VetLink? We use it but only thing we dont like it is that if we check them in on Vetext first, we can't check in on VETlink. We have to do VetLink first.

- **Any other problems with I am here texting?**
>    __P1__: No 

>    __P2__: No

>    __P3__: No

- **What does it say in the parking lot?**

>    __P3__: CBOCS, uptown and downtown, signs are up in parking lot to text you are here and you would get further guidance.

- **Have you gotten positive feedback about that experience?**
>    __P1__: No

>    __P2__: No

>    __P3__: No

- **Do you see any potential type of solution where veteran check in on phone? (Once current issues are solved)**
>    __P2__: If VETlink could talk to VEText, I could see the potential. I think veterans would like the option of staying in car instead of waiting area. If it was a more efficient system

- **What would need to be part of it to make it effeicient for staff?**
> __P2__: We need to see that they're there. Its interesting. Veterans would wait an hour without saying "I've been missed". They don't say anything.
> If there was a way to make it visible to all the staff, then that would make it more efficient so we can catch the ones who are just waiting.

>    __P3__: Especially with reduced seating with covid, it helps us as well. The text can give them an approximate time, rather than them be sent back to their vehicle after the waiting room is full.
> If I check into Vetext, that should roll into Vetlink. That would be ideal.


````
    - Possible follow up prompts / make sure to cover:
        - What about these options is working well? What's not working?
        - Differences between walk-in and scheduled check-in?
        - What options are available for lab / pharm / enrollment?
        - Why are these the options in place? Was anything else considered?
        - From a staff perspective, which of these works best/worst for you? why?
        - How does your role/tasks to complete change (if at all) based upon the check in method?  
        - When are identity / insurance / contact info / next of kin etc verified?
            - How often is it verified? Why is it important to verify it that often?
            - How is this information used by yourself or other staff?
            - When a Veteran updates their contact or next of kin information, is a notification of that change sent to the Veteran? (Example: Maybe a letter is sent saying your phone number was changed on X date. If you didn't make this change, then contact X.)
        - How has check-in changed w/ COVID?
        - Did your site use I am here - the texting check-in tool? If so, how well did it work for your facility?
        - If you could change one thing about the check-in process, what would it be?
````

- How do staff know that Veterans are checked in? (listen for VEText, VETlink, VSE, VistA)

````
  -	Possible follow up prompts / make sure to cover:
      - What tools do staff use to manage Veteran check-in?
      - Who needs to know that a Veteran is checked in? Do they all find out the same way?
      - __Do those staff have VSE open?__
      - Do Veterans ever end up in the waiting room without having fully completed check-in? What happens in that scenario?
      - What other hiccups come about with Check-in, how do staff manage them?

````

- How do staff communicate to Veterans when they are ready for their appointment or services?

````
  - Follow ups / look out for:
      - From a staff perspective, which of these works best/worst for you? why? 
      - How do staff know which Veteran to call next?
      - What about for low-vision and non-hearing veterans?
````

- **What concerns would you have about Vets checking-in before they are physically on site versus allowing check-in to occur X minutes (maybe 10-20 minutes) before the scheduled appointment time?**
- **Would you be concerned about someone texting there but not being on site?**

> **P2**: No

> **P3**: No, I wouldn't

- **Would staff need a way to communicate with veteran not just in waiting room?**

> **P3**: Well you can send something to them now after they send the I am here text. Theres a template already in the system and you can add to it, so you can communicate to them that way.

- **Would staff consider calling veteran or typing work better?**
>    __P1__: I think either option. Sometimes we're running behind and we need to communicate to them. The option to call would be nice

>    __P3__: I agree

- **What concerns do you have about them checking in 20 min before theyre on site.**

> __P2__: I dont think that would be good. The oversight would affect the process. We're not sure whether theyre here, where they are. I don't think that works for the volume of patients we see

> **P1**: A day or 2 ahead of time to just let you update, ask covid questions ahead of time.

> **P2**: Majority use kiosk.

> **P1**: But that will give them the option of completing all that stuff ahead of time.

> **P2**: They would still have to alert that they're on site. They would have to communicate and staff would have to be trained so everyone can work toegther. There's a disconnect and having the silo affects the patient flow
> Make it more efficient.

- **Would you be open to having another session about patient tracking**
P1: Sure
P2: Sure
P3: Sure, if we can help make it a better flow for everyone

- **Anything important about check-in that we haven’t discussed?**
>    __P1__: When Veterans check in, it creates a timestamp so on the router slip, it has check in time. But we don't have time once a vet is placed in exam room. We don't know how long they've been waiting in exam room until seen by provider.
> So when your tracking, we need to see how long. And space utilization, we are trying to cram a lot in one space. We have 6 services running through on a given day of the week.

>    __P3__: No, not right now.

- From what we've talked about regarding check-in, what is most important to each of you? 

## Second Task: Patient Tracking - 15 minutes (Not in this session)
Next let's move on to how staff communicate about where the Veteran is in their appointment or service.
-	What are the ways staff at your facility communicate about where in the process the Veteran is?

````
    - Possible follow up prompts / make sure to cover:
        -	What is working about this process? What isn't working?
        -	Why are these the options in place? Was anything else considered?
        -   From a staff perspective, which of these works best/worst for you? why? 
        -	Who needs to track this information? Do they all access it the same way?
        -	Differences between walk-in and scheduled check-in?
        -	Changed w/ COVID?
        -	Does patient tracking system allow for handoff between clinics / facilities? (ie patient has multiple appts, or multiple parts to one visit?
````

- Anything important about patient-tracking that we haven’t discussed?

- From what we've talked about regarding patient-tracking, what is most important to each of you?

## Post-Task Interview - 10 minutes
- **What capabilities of the kiosk and VetLink software would you say MUST be included within the new system (the items that can’t be removed)?**
>    __P3__: We still need some type of non-card identifier in case card reader doesnt work or they dont bring it

>    __P2__: I think option to use your card should also stay, the appearance of software should stay, touch screen is nice, the function to notify staff with timestamp needs to stay.
> Option to get staff ability to manually check in veteran if kiosk cant needs to stay.


- **What worries do you have about the Kiosk & Vet link software going away and a new check-in process/system being available in its place?**

>    __P2__: The clinic flow. MSAs wouldnt be able to check in the volume since theyre checking out patients, walkins, questions, dropping off paperwork, giving directions.
> Volume of traffic goes by so they have to look up wayfinding. Amount of job duties, they couldn't handle all of this without kiosks and without designated check-in only MSAs. It would be drastic to our clinic flow to not have kiosk.

>    __P3__: I agree. 

- **If you could design check-in anyway that you wanted, what would that check-in process look like?**

>    __P2__: A centralized area, similar to like a visitor help desk. Where it would alert the receiving clinic and give patient clinic with room number. They come without their letters. We have 2 divisions. YOu can tell when someones lost and you help them.
> They need a greeting, assistance, prinout, where, what time to be there. Then when they get to clinic, they finish the check in process. Then its kind of like...the DMV has it. They created in columbia (sp?) county - a person who looked you up before you even went through the front door. In foyer - what are you here for? Do you have this this and this for your appt? No, go back home immediately rather than waiting in line for an hour and then finding out you dont have it?

> __P3__: I think thats a great idea to streamline. Especially when they come to the wrong area. The Veterans are upset about the removal of the travel benefits though.

## Thank-You and Closing - 2 minutes
Well we really appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us today. Your feedback is so helpful to us as we continue to work on this experience for both staff and Veterans.
- Lastly, are there other folks from your site who weren’t in this conversation who have a different perspective that we should to talk to?

- Would your site be open to a site visit, where a researcher from our team observes check-in in person?

- Any questions for me?

Great, well thank you so much again, and enjoy the rest of your day!
