# Staff-Facing Check-In & Workflow Discovery Group Interview Conversation Guide
## Research Questions:
-	What is the staff experience of check in, patient tracking?
    -	How does experience vary by role / department / clinic / appointment type?
- Do staff use or have access to VSE during check-in?
-	What are pain points for staff for each of the tools involved & in general?
-	What is working well about existing processes & tools?
-	What are the admin-level needs being met by VETlink software / patient flow management tools?
-	How has COVID era changed check-in needs and process?


## Moderator logistics
- Use #feedback-backchannel in Slack for real-time feedback from observers.
- Mute your Slack notifications
- Before the session, send out the observer instructions to your observers (Slackbot will do this for you if you type "observer instructions" into #feedback-backchannel).
- In the Attendees section, make sure everyone except the participant is on mute.
- In the Audio section, click the drop-down arrow and make sure "Play Entry/Exit Chimes" is unchecked
- Check your screensharing setup and share permissions for participants.
- When the participant is ready, begin the session with the following intro
## Project-specific setup
-	Mural board prepped (if using)
## Intro - 5 minutes
Hi everyone, thank you all so much for taking time out of your day to talk with us. I'm [name], I'll be guiding our conversation today. A few of my colleagues are on the call to take notes and listen in.

I’ll give a bit of background on why we want to talk to you all and then tell you a bit about what this hour is going to look like. So, the team I'm working with is looking at how VA medical centers and CBOCs currently handle checking Veterans in and tracking Veteran through their appointment or services. As you know, the kiosk tool and VetLink software that many sites use are being decommissioned in the next year, and we are talking to staff as well as Veterans to make sure that what is built in its place meets the needs of everyone involved. 

What I'm hoping we will do today is have a conversation about how check in and patient tracking work at your facility, what’s working and what’s not working. I know you are all involved at different levels and different points in the process, I want to hear about each of your perspectives. I expect there to be differences in your perspectives, and that is actually really helpful. The purpose of this conversation is not to reach any sort of consensus. 

Before we start, a few things I want to mention:
- This entire session should take about 60 min. I want to be sure not to keep you much longer, so I may occasionally prompt you with the next question or topic.
- In this session, we want to hear your honest opinions. There are no right or wrong answers. I’m not going to be offended, I’m interested in honesty.
- I know you all have other responsibilities besides talking to me for an hour, so if you have to hop off at any time, we understand. 
- Are you comfortable if I record my screen and audio as we talk today? We use the recordings to confirm that we have captured your opinions accurately. The recordings are destroyed after we complete analysis, and none of your comments will be attributed to you directly.
  - If yes: Once I start recording, I am going to confirm that you are ok with me recording this session once more.
__Start recording.__
- I have started recording. I'd like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record the audio as we talk today?

## Warm-up Questions - 10 minutes
Let's start with a quick round of introductions, you all might know each other, but my colleagues and I don't know you.

- **If you could share your name (and pronouns if you’d like to share them) & how your current role connects to check-in and patient tracking.**
> **P7**: Supervisory Program Application Specialist and site lead for past couple years for vetlink and kiosk. Hearing talk about going away, so I'm glad I'm on this discussion.

> **P8**: Chief of Patient Experience and healthcare. Also Army Veteran. Interested in what services we can provide. Responsible for entire Durham healthcare system, VAMC, different departments, all the cbocs included.

Thanks for doing that, gives me a bit more context for our conversation. 

One more question for each of you to answer before we dive in. Could you each go around and in one word describe... 
- **The process of checking in Veterans to your facility**
> **P8**: "Confusing." Prior to check in area, you got kiosk and front desk. Sometimes front desk is empty and you can check in solo, but not notified you're in the wrong area. For example, I can arrive at area E that has a lot of services, but I need to be on another floor. It allows me to check in, I sit there, no one tells me [I'm in the wrong area]. Until I get a call I missed my appointment and I am in wrong area.
> Needs checks and balances that I'm in the right area of hospital. Not good for veteran experience. We have some in the older population that like tech but then you have those who don't. Then you have young people who would like to do check in directly from tech. That's the most confusing because we have two different avenues [for entry at Durham]. It has a possibility of checking in wrong location.

> **P7**: "Confusing/Cumbersome." My perspective as site lead - patients coming in don't have human interaction checking in. Not having the human interaction there are cases where the kiosk (old, dated) goes down. As supervisor of dept, I'm also running around investigating why kiosks are down. And I'm playing catchup and getting kiosks back online. 
> Then on top of this old technology, if we can have something where they can check in virtually or something away from this bulky equipment, we could be used that space for waiting area. Have been working this way for the past 4-5 years.

- The process of queuing and tracking patients through their appointments and services at your facility

## Task Intro - 2 minutes
Okay, now we're going to dive into it.

~~Here is a simplified outline of Veteran check in, and Veteran tracking . This will serve as somewhat of a visual anchor for our conversation, and we will add some notes along the way, but primarily this is a conversation amongst you all. I’ll jump in with questions and redirects to make sure we’re covering certain things, but first and foremost, we want to hear from you all.~~
## First Task: Check-In - 15 minutes
~~Let's start on the left. The Veteran arrives onsite for an appointment or unscheduled service.~~ 
-	What are the different ways a Veteran can check-in at your facility? (listen for IMH, Kiosk, Clerk)

- **What do you imagine about virtually**
> **P7**: > Person from vetna showcased what they do in South Carolina. Along lines of VETlink and VEText combined, where they can check in virtually by dialing or texting number. With COVID going on, it was a great concept. People wanted to be safe, in their cars, and it gave them freedom to not only be seated in the waiting area. There was a button on queuing set up you can text patient in real time, "please make your way up in the next 15 minutes, dr is ready to see you". I thought we were doing that, but said no. If we could have a device, [we need] something [with] minimal space. Years ago, iPads on a wall mound where they could be pulled out and easily accessible to patients, for motororized scooters or wheelchair. 
> Also something where you can virtually check in and communicate with patient. I'm POC for VEText too. But we need a one stop shop where all the tracking goes in one. Rather than a new product on one side and one on a separate screen.

- **So if in wrong place, MSA can provide wayfinding support?**
> **P8**: Correct. One thing I would like to see is that the kiosk has a map or something. But whould be a challenge because clinics get shuffled around.

- **why would they get shuffled?**

> **P8**: We have a small campus. We're the smallest in our VISN. So we can only build up. Sometimes when they need more space and they'll have to move it to another CBOC. [Recently] Flood on second floor, required certain areas to move.
> It was built in 1953 so there's always a gas leak or something, so its musical chairs.

- **What does it take to keep up to date? Does that take work as a team?**
> **P7**: Primarily done by me and others. We used to have a lot of superusers, but too many hands in the pot. Had to strip access away. As new clinics are being built, I'm not always notified to add a new clinic on the kiosk. So they [Veterans] can attempt to check in and then theyre presented with message to find someone to check in. Then I'm notified on the back end.
> It's cumbersome because only 2 people in hospital are doing this. Assistance with accounts and maintenance of kiosk.

- **What were the problems with superusers?**
> **P7**: User accounts being modified, lack of training. They were provided administrator access and it was trial and error. Rather than trained properly how to investigate and provide the experience that was required.

> **P8**: In general, there's a lack of standard operating procedures that are accessible to all staff and clearly defined. The knowledge is with the person but not in a physical source. If that person leaves, that knowledge goes away.
> Then there's an angst to change. Definitely a challenge. We can show that things will improve with our design/change managment team. But still they're used to doing in a way. "Legacy employees" are stuck in their way. New policies and procedures are not easy.

- **Are there tools where staff training was good? VSE and Vetext?**
> **P7**: That is done by me and one staff member. We're not the end user but on daily they'll say we cant get into VETlink or locked out. So it's configure and unlock accounts. Something as simple as needing to change verify code in VistA.

- **Is "I am Here" used at all?**
> **P7**: We started it but it never took off. We never saw over 25% patients face-to-face so no utilization.

> **P7**: There's no set location for them to congregate. We tried to identify some parking spaces, but facilities revised parking for handicap accessible toward the front. So now they're sitting their car waiting for how long. And there were complaints having to "sit in my car in hot or cold and Ihave to waste gas."
> If our campus allowed more space and we had an area where we had a centralized space, it would work but we just don't have space to allow for that.
> We have a main parking garage but when you present to the clinic where we were tight on space because we had to map out seating, we didn't have any assigned parking spots allotted for it.

- **Any issue with Cell coverage?**
> **P7**: No, but if patients weren't opted in, they weren't seeing the alerts. Some are more apt to technology, some not. Then some not receiving text messages and don't text back.

````
    - Possible follow up prompts / make sure to cover:
        - What about these options is working well? What's not working?
        - Differences between walk-in and scheduled check-in?
        - What options are available for lab / pharm / enrollment?
        - Why are these the options in place? Was anything else considered?
        - From a staff perspective, which of these works best/worst for you? why?
        - How does your role/tasks to complete change (if at all) based upon the check in method?  
        - When are identity / insurance / contact info / next of kin etc verified?
            - How often is it verified? Why is it important to verify it that often?
            - How is this information used by yourself or other staff?
            - When a Veteran updates their contact or next of kin information, is a notification of that change sent to the Veteran? (Example: Maybe a letter is sent saying your phone number was changed on X date. If you didn't make this change, then contact X.)
        - How has check-in changed w/ COVID?
        - Did your site use I am here - the texting check-in tool? If so, how well did it work for your facility?
        - If you could change one thing about the check-in process, what would it be?
````

- How do staff know that Veterans are checked in? (listen for VEText, VETlink, VSE, VistA)

````
  -	Possible follow up prompts / make sure to cover:
      - What tools do staff use to manage Veteran check-in?
      - Who needs to know that a Veteran is checked in? Do they all find out the same way?
      - __Do those staff have VSE open?__
      - Do Veterans ever end up in the waiting room without having fully completed check-in? What happens in that scenario?
      - What other hiccups come about with Check-in, how do staff manage them?
````

- How do staff communicate to Veterans when they are ready for their appointment or services?

````
  - Follow ups / look out for:
      - From a staff perspective, which of these works best/worst for you? why? 
      - How do staff know which Veteran to call next?
      - What about for low-vision and non-hearing veterans?
````

- **What concerns would you have about Vets checking-in before they are physically on site versus allowing check-in to occur X minutes (maybe 10-20 minutes) before the scheduled appointment time?**
- **Checking in virtually. What concerns do you have with pre-onsite check in 30-60 min?**
> **P7**: I would be hesitant 60 min before campus, it's not going to show true data when patients arrive. Maybe 15-20 min prior, but 60 minutes they can check in and then bump into traffic.
> They're almost there but they're not physically there. An hour prior to appointment is unrealistic if they're truly not there and not called. 

- **What if they received in 10-20 min range that would prompt to check in?**
> **P7**: That would work.
> **P7**: There may be delays in travel process. But view appointments, wayfinding if possible, directions to clinic could work ahead of time.

- **Anything important about check-in that we haven’t discussed?**
> **P7**: With the new transition, is there going to be a physical device?

- **Moderator: Still in early phases. We're hearing from both sides that it may not be one right answer across population**
> **P7**: I think the virtual would work, we would have to build a team as far as new intiative and rollout. Minimal device in area rather than big bulky machines.
> If it were wireless, we would not run into as many problem. No reseting port issues, working on wifi would be ideal. It could be connected and operational. Not having to rely on another team to provide service, can troubleshoot a bit better.

- **Is card swiping important?**
> **P7**: Yes and no. if you already identified using name, dob, ssn, address then you don't really need it. 

> **P8**: I can count on one hand how many times I used my va card to check in. I know a lot who do though. It's something to consider given possibly making experience easier and faster. 
> There is hesitancy about typing your social into a system, so i think card reader can be useful.

- **What is the entry like at your site? (Posters, etc)**

> **P8**: From our parking deck to entrance, you probably have at least a thosand feet and in that area we have a bunch of posters. We have space for it. It will be an extra layer [for reminders].
> In our other entrances, we don't have as much space, but we would have space to put something.
> Covid screener developed in durham, so we're open to QR codes and can be used here. Successful with patient population and staff.
> You're always going to have individuals who are not going to do it. There are some who are illiterate or have limited capabilities.
> There is value added to having posters. I was even thinking about checkin once they got into the wifi range, but I wouldn't want it to be just that one thing if wifi goes down.

> **P7**: I love the idea of doing assessment on my cell phone, I added the covid screening website to my favorites and can easily show staff I'm cleared. So something like that would especially work for our younger population.
> Being able to check in remotely couldn't be reliant on wifi proximity. But still have reasonable time prior to checking in.

- **How Wifi and cell coverage?**
> **P7**: In clinical areas I haven't seen areas affected. I know we had OIT install wifi boosters in the hospital for T-mobile cell coverage.
> We didn't capitalize on it as much as I thought we were. Never heard negative response like I don't have cell service in this area.

- **What does an ideal state of check in look like?**
> **P7**: Going to one single piece of software. If VEText goes away, Do we shift to another platform? Whether admin, nursing and providers, having one piece of software would work for the entire time and incorporating "I am here" in single platform.

> **P8**: Must track the time- check in check out, need to be user friendly, ability for front desk staff to check people in, and a wayfinding/mapping tool.

> **P7**: Definitely wayfinding. In Orlando, there is a big screen where they can touch where they need to go and it would say you're here, this is how you need to go somewhere. Mapping it out turn by turn.

- **Worries about decommissioned?**
> **P7**: If it's new for staff, they'll need to be re-educated. Being site lead being educated on this, I'm constantly staying in the loop for me and my team. Also, there might be resistance from veterans being used to only having the kiosk/electronic.
> Be able to constantly provide re education on both sides [Veterans, Staff] on the process and moving forward.

> **P8**: No worries. The current kiosk system set the bar pretty low. So I can see theres room for improvement. There's always going to be hesistancy for change. For example, the travel process change that went online.
> There will be growing pains, but a lot of opportunity for improvement.

- From what we've talked about regarding check-in, what is most important to each of you?

## Second Task: Patient Tracking - 15 minutes
Next let's move on to how staff communicate about where the Veteran is in their appointment or service.
-	What are the ways staff at your facility communicate about where in the process the Veteran is?

````
    - Possible follow up prompts / make sure to cover:
        -	What is working about this process? What isn't working?
        -	Why are these the options in place? Was anything else considered?
        -   From a staff perspective, which of these works best/worst for you? why? 
        -	Who needs to track this information? Do they all access it the same way?
        -	Differences between walk-in and scheduled check-in?
        -	Changed w/ COVID?
        -	Does patient tracking system allow for handoff between clinics / facilities? (ie patient has multiple appts, or multiple parts to one visit?
````

- Anything important about patient-tracking that we haven’t discussed?

- From what we've talked about regarding patient-tracking, what is most important to each of you?

## Post-Task Interview - 10 minutes
- What capabilities of the kiosk and VetLink software would you say MUST be included within the new system (the items that can’t be removed)?

- What worries do you have about the Kiosk & Vet link software going away and a new check-in process/system being available in its place? 

- If you could design check-in anyway that you wanted, what would that check-in process look like?

## Thank-You and Closing - 2 minutes
Well we really appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us today. Your feedback is so helpful to us as we continue to work on this experience for both staff and Veterans.
- Lastly, are there other folks from your site who weren’t in this conversation who have a different perspective that we should to talk to?

- Would your site be open to a site visit, where a researcher from our team observes check-in in person?

- **Any questions for me?**
> **P7**: Expressed interest to VISN lead that we should pilot anything rolled out. Can we be one of the pilot sites in durham?

> **P8**: Always open to innovation and change, especially improving for Veterans.

> **P7**: Anything as far as wait time boards that could be utilized with this new technology? 

> **P8**: In private sector, other places you can see how much time. "Now I can go get coffee." Open transparency.


- **Open to another session in next week or week after?**
> **P7**: Friday 2 pm

> **P8**: Days in afternoon.



Great, well thank you so much again, and enjoy the rest of your day!

