# Staff-Facing Check-In & Workflow Discovery Group Interview Conversation Guide
## Research Questions:
-	What is the staff experience of check in, patient tracking?
    -	How does experience vary by role / department / clinic / appointment type?
- Do staff use or have access to VSE during check-in?
-	What are pain points for staff for each of the tools involved & in general?
-	What is working well about existing processes & tools?
-	What are the admin-level needs being met by VETlink software / patient flow management tools?
-	How has COVID era changed check-in needs and process?


## Moderator logistics
- Use #feedback-backchannel in Slack for real-time feedback from observers.
- Mute your Slack notifications
- Before the session, send out the observer instructions to your observers (Slackbot will do this for you if you type "observer instructions" into #feedback-backchannel).
- In the Attendees section, make sure everyone except the participant is on mute.
- In the Audio section, click the drop-down arrow and make sure "Play Entry/Exit Chimes" is unchecked
- Check your screensharing setup and share permissions for participants.
- When the participant is ready, begin the session with the following intro
## Project-specific setup
-	Mural board prepped (if using)
## Intro - 5 minutes
Hi everyone, thank you all so much for taking time out of your day to talk with us. I'm [name], I'll be guiding our conversation today. A few of my colleagues are on the call to take notes and listen in.

I’ll give a bit of background on why we want to talk to you all and then tell you a bit about what this hour is going to look like. So, the team I'm working with is looking at how VA medical centers and CBOCs currently handle checking Veterans in and tracking Veteran through their appointment or services. As you know, the kiosk tool and VetLink software that many sites use are being decommissioned in the next year, and we are talking to staff as well as Veterans to make sure that what is built in its place meets the needs of everyone involved. 

What I'm hoping we will do today is have a conversation about how check in and patient tracking work at your facility, what’s working and what’s not working. I know you are all involved at different levels and different points in the process, I want to hear about each of your perspectives. I expect there to be differences in your perspectives, and that is actually really helpful. The purpose of this conversation is not to reach any sort of consensus. 

Before we start, a few things I want to mention:
- This entire session should take about 60 min. I want to be sure not to keep you much longer, so I may occasionally prompt you with the next question or topic.
- In this session, we want to hear your honest opinions. There are no right or wrong answers. I’m not going to be offended, I’m interested in honesty.
- I know you all have other responsibilities besides talking to me for an hour, so if you have to hop off at any time, we understand. 
- Are you comfortable if I record my screen and audio as we talk today? We use the recordings to confirm that we have captured your opinions accurately. The recordings are destroyed after we complete analysis, and none of your comments will be attributed to you directly.
  - If yes: Once I start recording, I am going to confirm that you are ok with me recording this session once more.
__Start recording.__
- I have started recording. I'd like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record the audio as we talk today?

## Warm-up Questions - 10 minutes
Let's start with a quick round of introductions, you all might know each other, but my colleagues and I don't know you.

- **If you could share your name (and pronouns if you’d like to share them) & how your current role connects to check-in and patient tracking.**

> **P10**: Advanced MSA and a Veteran. I do a lot of check in, scheduling, a lot of things they do on kiosk, i can do on desktop. Mental health outpatient clinic.

> **P9**: Avdanced MSA and Veteran. Same things P10 does, I do too. I work in hearing aid dept.

Thanks for doing that, gives me a bit more context for our conversation. 

One more question for each of you to answer before we dive in. Could you each go around and in one word describe... 
- **The process of checking in Veterans to your facility**
> **P9**: On kiosk - "Difficult," In person - "Easy". We have baby boomers in our department, 60 and over and there are too many steps they don't understand. Sometimes they think they're checked in but they're not and I have to help them. And it's a lot of the same repetitive questions on the kiosk.
> A lot are not computer literate.

> **P10**: On kiosk - "Slow," In person - "Easy". Slow ties in to what P9 said. Even for the ones who know how to use kiosks, it's a lot of questions. Especially when they are running late, the last thing they want to do is answer these questions. Even when you have another appointment later, it asks the questions again. Some are not just older veterans, some are just not computer literate. They need something so basic like a big Yes because they can't grasp whats being asked on the screen.

- The process of queuing and tracking patients through their appointments and services at your facility

## Task Intro - 2 minutes
Okay, now we're going to dive into it.

~~Here is a simplified outline of Veteran check in, and Veteran tracking . This will serve as somewhat of a visual anchor for our conversation, and we will add some notes along the way, but primarily this is a conversation amongst you all. I’ll jump in with questions and redirects to make sure we’re covering certain things, but first and foremost, we want to hear from you all.~~
## First Task: Check-In - 15 minutes
~~Let's start on the left. The Veteran arrives onsite for an appointment or unscheduled service.~~ 
-	What are the different ways a Veteran can check-in at your facility? (listen for IMH, Kiosk, Clerk)

- **If you were to change, what would you change to solve that problem?**
> **P10**: That would be the first thing they do - check them in and tell them if they're in the wrong place. We get that a lot, but they don't know and it doesn't necessarily tell them the location. The demographics shouldn't be all in the same process. Do that after the appointment, not necessarily as they're trying to check in. Relying on diff transportation, they dont want to do that. They think they're just skipping those steps, not realizing they're skipping the whole thing.
> Travel should just be automated. They shouldn't have to exit the system and go back in.

> **P9**: It's too long. Are you the person? Are you ready to check in? Put your social in, check in. And *then* if something else needs to be done, go to front desk. And then they also have the insurance [part] and they try to stick their insurance card in. All that demographics stuff shouldn't be there.
> Alert that you're in wrong clinic. And travel should tie in. It won't even let you put multiple claims in online. Too many steps. They need to cut it out. Line could be long sometimes.

- **What happens when Veteran doesnt all the way check in? How do you solve that?**
> **P9**: I try to monitor the waiting room. I ask if they have an appointment. Then I'll ping someone. I don't tell them they weren't checked in because they don't want to hear that. I'll tell my team and they'll see him and help.
> We use teams message through audiology. I'll message group that someone checked in. I'll say "let me help you," I don't say that they did something wrong.

> **P10**: Sometimes patients are a little sensitive if providers haven't seen them. I'm trying to coordinate with doctors and patients. And they cant see patients after thei [appointment] time if they're busy. And it becomes a whole can of worms.

- ** Aren there any programs to let you know?**
> **P9**: I think Vetlink shows that sometimes? I forgot what it says because we haven't used the kiosk in so long. Only if the patient comes up.

> **P10**: I think it's a yellow trinagle, but no notification. On the veteran screen, theres none from screen we normally have up.

- **Why were the kiosks shut down?**
> **P9**: Shut down because of covid. And then sometimes they refuse to use because privacy information [concerns], they're not swiping their cards.

> **P10**: We have some of those here too who feel it's invasive. Its unplugged because of covid. It hasnt been up since then.

- **Have you used I am here? Have you heard of it?**
> **P9**: No

> **P10**: No

> **P9**: You automatically get a appt reminder from the VA. I think its healthevet or something.

- **How do you use it?**
> **P9**: I don't use it, the providers do.

- **How is check in communicated with veterans?**
> **P9**: I don't think they miss their appointments I feel like there are a lot of notifications. Email, text, text closer to appointment, then call.

> **P10**: For text reminders, you have some on limited budget so you have cell limits, it eats up their data.

- **Are texts possible for the future of check in?
> **P9**: I don't think they read their texts in time. I have to help them with their phone a lot. I don't think that would be a good idea.

- **What happens if issue with eligibility?**
> **P9**: I know if there are certain codes, I know they can't be seen. If you want to be seen, go to the business office. They shouldn't get pass us. They still get processed
> I don't think they should be seen if they're still in processing. Just because you're a veteran doesnt mean you're qualified to be seen here.

> **P10**: Different process [in Mental Health]. Eligible or not, we see them for humanitarian reasons. We still get some who aren't registered, so we have to send to the business office.

- **They have to go to a different area?**
> **P9**: If they're not enrolled, they can't be seen. "AG - over income guidelines"

> **P10**: We have to tell them they have to go to business office and register and then be a walk in. For us, it's all the same day, even if it's still in processing.
> Only time is if theyre flagged and can't go to doctors at CBOCS, but it's rare that theyre not eligible at all.

> **P9**: We get one humanitarian, it's rare [in audiology].

- **When check in with you all do you update next of kin, etc?**
> **P9**: I try to update demographics. I let them tell me their address and see if they want to add email and then I'm finished. But we can do next of kin

> **P10**: Next of kin I can't. They would need to do it from the business office.

- **Could you describe your workspace?**
> **P9**: 2 monitors, no privacy screens because of size so patients can see everything. We aren't really 6 feet apart. Sometimes patients are hollering so everyone can hear their information. No privacy. Just privacy windows for covid.
> 3 people in our little office so Veterans can see.

> **P10**: 4 of us, we have the 2 monitors and phone so when person next to me has patient, they can see my screen. And vice versa.
> Glass in front of us, but opening between the glass so they can pop their heads through. When they check in, everyone can hear and see each other's stuff.

> **P9**: we have to holler really loud because were in audiology.

- **What programs do you use?**

> **P9**: VistA GUI although it's not working right now, CPRS, insurance buffer, Vetlink. 

> **P10**: Same, and teams, outlook.

- **Which ones are part of scheduling?**
> **P10**: Vetlink and insurance buffer. 
> Rarely use VSE for checking in. They say not to use it for checking in. If VETlink goes down, we'll use VistA. But they don't talk to each other.
> I don't know why. Vetlink is easy

> **P9**: They can't see it - providers cant see VistA GUI. 

- **Providers are looking in VETlink?**
> **P9**: Right. They could go into old VistA. GUI is down so we're scheduling in vista so it's a pain. Don't know whats wrong with it but it's been down since yesterday.
> **P10**: It's been down since yesterday.

````
    - Possible follow up prompts / make sure to cover:
        - What about these options is working well? What's not working?
        - Differences between walk-in and scheduled check-in?
        - What options are available for lab / pharm / enrollment?
        - Why are these the options in place? Was anything else considered?
        - From a staff perspective, which of these works best/worst for you? why?
        - How does your role/tasks to complete change (if at all) based upon the check in method?  
        - When are identity / insurance / contact info / next of kin etc verified?
            - How often is it verified? Why is it important to verify it that often?
            - How is this information used by yourself or other staff?
            - When a Veteran updates their contact or next of kin information, is a notification of that change sent to the Veteran? (Example: Maybe a letter is sent saying your phone number was changed on X date. If you didn't make this change, then contact X.)
        - How has check-in changed w/ COVID?
        - Did your site use I am here - the texting check-in tool? If so, how well did it work for your facility?
        - If you could change one thing about the check-in process, what would it be?
````

- How do staff know that Veterans are checked in? (listen for VEText, VETlink, VSE, VistA)

````
  -	Possible follow up prompts / make sure to cover:
      - What tools do staff use to manage Veteran check-in?
      - Who needs to know that a Veteran is checked in? Do they all find out the same way?
      - __Do those staff have VSE open?__
      - Do Veterans ever end up in the waiting room without having fully completed check-in? What happens in that scenario?
      - What other hiccups come about with Check-in, how do staff manage them?
````

- How do staff communicate to Veterans when they are ready for their appointment or services?

- **How do you adjust for special requirements?**

> **P9**: I'll let the doctors know and let people in waiting room know we're not screaming at them. We'll be calling them and they don't hear.
> It's all the time here.
````
  - Follow ups / look out for:
      - From a staff perspective, which of these works best/worst for you? why? 
      - How do staff know which Veteran to call next?
      - What about for low-vision and non-hearing veterans?
````

- **What concerns would you have about Vets checking-in before they are physically on site versus allowing check-in to occur X minutes (maybe 10-20 minutes) before the scheduled appointment time?**
> **P9**: Could work well, but signal wouldnt work here.

> **P10**: And then there are the limited phone services.

> **P9**: Then they leave the phones in the car. For me, I'm the type of person who would like to do that [by technology], avoid the desk.

- Anything important about check-in that we haven’t discussed?

- From what we've talked about regarding check-in, what is most important to each of you?

## Second Task: Patient Tracking - 15 minutes
Next let's move on to how staff communicate about where the Veteran is in their appointment or service.
-	What are the ways staff at your facility communicate about where in the process the Veteran is?

````
    - Possible follow up prompts / make sure to cover:
        -	What is working about this process? What isn't working?
        -	Why are these the options in place? Was anything else considered?
        -   From a staff perspective, which of these works best/worst for you? why? 
        -	Who needs to track this information? Do they all access it the same way?
        -	Differences between walk-in and scheduled check-in?
        -	Changed w/ COVID?
        -	Does patient tracking system allow for handoff between clinics / facilities? (ie patient has multiple appts, or multiple parts to one visit?
````

- Anything important about patient-tracking that we haven’t discussed?

- From what we've talked about regarding patient-tracking, what is most important to each of you?

## Post-Task Interview - 10 minutes
- **What capabilities of the kiosk and VetLink software would you say MUST be included within the new system (the items that can’t be removed)?**
- **From kiosk experience, are there things that are essential?**
> **P9**: More privacy. Maybe face recognition if they forget card or dont know where to put card in.

> **P10**: Even privacy panels would help. I stand and block screen so people behind me can't see.


- **What worries do you have about the Kiosk & Vet link software going away and a new check-in process/system being available in its place?**
- **Any concerns about it going away?**
> **P9**: If they have something easier than Vetlink that would be fine. Its a pretty simple to use program already.

> **P10**: I prefer to use kiosk for check in, just dont like all the questions and it can be slow. Going to a clerk is faster. 
> It would be better if they could tie travel to appointment as that would check me in for that portion.


- **If you could design check-in anyway that you wanted, what would that check-in process look like?**
> **P10**: Location. Rather than waiting for a clerk to tell me how to get anywhere.


## Thank-You and Closing - 2 minutes
Well we really appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us today. Your feedback is so helpful to us as we continue to work on this experience for both staff and Veterans.
- Lastly, are there other folks from your site who weren’t in this conversation who have a different perspective that we should to talk to?

- Would your site be open to a site visit, where a researcher from our team observes check-in in person?

- Any questions for me?

Great, well thank you so much again, and enjoy the rest of your day!

