# Staff-Facing Check-In & Workflow Discovery Group Interview Conversation Guide
## Research Questions:
-	What is the staff experience of check in, patient tracking?
    -	How does experience vary by role / department / clinic / appointment type?
- Do staff use or have access to VSE during check-in?
-	What are pain points for staff for each of the tools involved & in general?
-	What is working well about existing processes & tools?
-	What are the admin-level needs being met by VETlink software / patient flow management tools?
-	How has COVID era changed check-in needs and process?


## Moderator logistics
- Use #feedback-backchannel in Slack for real-time feedback from observers.
- Mute your Slack notifications
- Before the session, send out the observer instructions to your observers (Slackbot will do this for you if you type "observer instructions" into #feedback-backchannel).
- In the Attendees section, make sure everyone except the participant is on mute.
- In the Audio section, click the drop-down arrow and make sure "Play Entry/Exit Chimes" is unchecked
- Check your screensharing setup and share permissions for participants.
- When the participant is ready, begin the session with the following intro
## Project-specific setup
-	Mural board prepped (if using)
## Intro - 5 minutes
Hi everyone, thank you all so much for taking time out of your day to talk with us. I'm [name], I'll be guiding our conversation today. A few of my colleagues are on the call to take notes and listen in.

I’ll give a bit of background on why we want to talk to you all and then tell you a bit about what this hour is going to look like. So, the team I'm working with is looking at how VA medical centers and CBOCs currently handle checking Veterans in and tracking Veteran through their appointment or services. As you know, the kiosk tool and VetLink software that many sites use are being decommissioned in the next year, and we are talking to staff as well as Veterans to make sure that what is built in its place meets the needs of everyone involved. 

What I'm hoping we will do today is have a conversation about how check in and patient tracking work at your facility, what’s working and what’s not working. I know you are all involved at different levels and different points in the process, I want to hear about each of your perspectives. I expect there to be differences in your perspectives, and that is actually really helpful. The purpose of this conversation is not to reach any sort of consensus. 

Before we start, a few things I want to mention:
- This entire session should take about 60 min. I want to be sure not to keep you much longer, so I may occasionally prompt you with the next question or topic.
- In this session, we want to hear your honest opinions. There are no right or wrong answers. I’m not going to be offended, I’m interested in honesty.
- I know you all have other responsibilities besides talking to me for an hour, so if you have to hop off at any time, we understand. 
- Are you comfortable if I record my screen and audio as we talk today? We use the recordings to confirm that we have captured your opinions accurately. The recordings are destroyed after we complete analysis, and none of your comments will be attributed to you directly.
  - If yes: Once I start recording, I am going to confirm that you are ok with me recording this session once more.
__Start recording.__
- I have started recording. I'd like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record the audio as we talk today?

## Warm-up Questions - 10 minutes
Let's start with a quick round of introductions, you all might know each other, but my colleagues and I don't know you.

- **If you could share your name (and pronouns if you’d like to share them) & how your current role connects to check-in and patient tracking.**
> **P14**: Lab supervisor. Good crew of 35 employees who are med techs. We check in 100-150 per day. [Did not know Vetlink is going away] It helps streamline, track turn around times for reports and whatnot. Used to call patients, especially those unable to see or hard of hearing,etc. Numbers arent high for those patients and there is a volunteer that helps. What would be awesome is for those who have no orders - to let them know they have no laboratory orders.
> That way they're not waiting for us to accession them. It upsets them when we have to break the news. Some [patients] are there around 5:30 am, then at 7 when we open, we have to break the news that we don't have the lab orders and then they gotta go home.

> **P15**: Phlebotomy supervisor. Work in front, near kiosk everyday. Help patients sign in, not right in front of us, but there are 2 nearby. Around it all day long. Most know what they're doing but some are new that need help or blind that need help.

Thanks for doing that, gives me a bit more context for our conversation. 

One more question for each of you to answer before we dive in. Could you each go around and in one word describe... 
- **The process of checking in Veterans to your facility**
> **P14**: "Streamlining." Compared to the prior system of having them leave their cards and people cutting in line, that wasn't ideal. When we got Vetlink, our team was manually doing that and it was tedious, with patient identifiers and having to yell out names 100-150 times a day.
> To have visible numbers on screen has been helpful. 

> **P15**: "Helpful." Before it wasn't organized. This is more "organized." So that might be a word too.

- The process of queuing and tracking patients through their appointments and services at your facility

## Task Intro - 2 minutes
Okay, now we're going to dive into it.

~~Here is a simplified outline of Veteran check in, and Veteran tracking . This will serve as somewhat of a visual anchor for our conversation, and we will add some notes along the way, but primarily this is a conversation amongst you all. I’ll jump in with questions and redirects to make sure we’re covering certain things, but first and foremost, we want to hear from you all.~~
## First Task: Check-In - 15 minutes
~~Let's start on the left. The Veteran arrives onsite for an appointment or unscheduled service.~~ 
-	What are the different ways a Veteran can check-in at your facility? (listen for IMH, Kiosk, Clerk)

- **Expansion on the check in process**

> **P14**: We see stats if they log in correctly. We try to help those who have CT/radiology first. Then chemo patients, etc considered "stat patients". Not always a gauranteed process, but it helps us see who we need to see first.
> Worked with Vetlink coordinators to do that. We had them assign a different set of queue numbers for that, like the DMV. 2 different series of numbers to distinguish "stats" from routine.
> They can be vocal, and upset.

> **P15**: And some of them get upset. Especially older ones get confused on which ones to push "chemo," etc. Some say I've been here longer, why are you calling [this other person] first.
> **P14**: Sometimes we have to make calls to providers for orders, so we have to explain to them their orders are not in the system yet. We have to tell them we will have to call you later and others will be called ahead.
> Needs to be user friendly especiall with hard of hearing and blind. We have 2 boards, they can see when there number is called.
> Blind, they come to front desk. Typically we have someone just walk them over. We go grab them and enter info at the kiosk, but they also have the ability to talk front desk.

> **P15**: It also calls their number out loud.

> **P14**: They can see it or hear it. It also allows us to enter notes into Vetlink. She's able to see my note of "this patient has no orders" and it will track our times that we entered. It also lets us know who's done or not done.

- **Reasons orders don't come through earlier?**
> **P14**: A nurse not scrubbing her clinic - whos coming for them and needs labs. Human error - providers need to enter their own.

> **P15**: Sometimes they [patients] may just be newly added - "stats" or walk-ins.

> **P14**: Sometimes elderly are confused. Sometimes they don't need labs, they just have appts but they think they have labs.

> **P15**: Sometimes they'll forget what happened - I'll write down what labs they did but then they'll come in again [for the same ones].

> **P14**: Vetlink will pull up future orders a few weeks (45) ahead.

> **P15**: That would be so helpful if it can flag that there arent orders.

> **P14**: Then we check which one we do or do not want. I think that notification alone would solve a lot of issues.

> **P15**: They blame it on us a lot. 

> **P14**: So they're not waiting for all that time just to find out there are no orders in the system for them.

> **P15**: Depends on what team they have, some come in at different times. So if they checked in at 6 am then they might be waiting til 8 am.

> **P14**: Can be anywhere from a few minutes of notification to hours. Most don't open til 8 am. Then it can take hours for orders to come in. They come to lab for blood work. We have to have really good customer service out there. Sometimes we have to say your Dr doesn't want lab work.

> **P15**: That's really frustrating too. If they're called to come to lab, then we say we already did them. Do you know who called you? "Well it was just a message."

> **P14**: VA send out robo calls or medical support assistants will call them. They see the lab appointment, but there's a lapse in knowing whether there's [actually] an order. That's different from outside VA systems, where providers will work with them. For VA, we don't work with providers to enter orders. Lab staff do not enter those.
> A lot of times, they'll bring orders from outside sector. All the VAs are setup for this.

- ** Are there any routines to prepare for walk in and schedules**
> **P14**: No. Some VAs will operate off of schedules but we don't. Were basically walk-ins. Some CBOCS, they have scheduled, but a lot of VAs don't have scheduled [labs]. A lot [of patients] come in the morning from 5 am to 12 pm. They don't come in later because they have the assumption that all labs are fasting labs.
> And then they have their appointments with providers later on in the day, so by time see providers they have done their labs.

- **Do they get info ahead of time whether it's fasting or not?**
> **P14**: That whole education part should be done by providers and teams. A lot don't need to be fasting before labs. Whether a patient is fasting or not, we can run them, but whether they needed to fast will have to do with provider. Shift towards not fasting anymore because for everyday life you're not fasting.

- **Any other issues with check in?**
> **P14**: Patients showing without orders is our biggest issue. As far as checking in, I think Vetink does pretty well [with that] and reports.

> **P15**: No, it's really organized, most like it because they know where they are in line. They sign in, they get a number. Some don't like it. And I know the faces when they walk up, they refuse to use it. We manually check them in and go about our day.
> We're working with veterans some with PTSD issues, so we work with them where we can.

> **P14**: If you can get it to query for orders and let them know, would be amazing.

> **P15**: [And tell them if they have to do labs.] For 24 hour urine, they sometimes bring and drop off, and if we don't catch them in time, we're not able to tell them they need to do labs with that.

- **Veterans will do partial check in?**
> **P15**: Yes, it just says continue at the end. Some of them don't go that far. It tells us that they exited on that page. I'll tell them this is how you do it or help them.

> **P14**: Back to the user friendliness.

> **P15**: I try not to say eveyone's names at the desk, but sometimes you have to. Call them up there or go out to them to tell them.

- **What happens when they check in at the wrong area or kiosk?**
> **P15**: We only see lab. Also confuses them when they sign in downstairs at the lobby. We have [queue numbers] 300-500 and downstairs [queue numbers] 100-300. Sometimes we get them [and see the assigned numbers] and say you have to sign in and check in upstairs [here] too and get one of these numbers.
> I can see when they sign in at a different building, but not everyone can see that. In primary care, if they push lab, then it will sign them in over here too.
> They work on CPRS and I work in VistA and we can see what's all in there.

> **P14**: If provider adds labs, they either call us or send them for labs. If they check into another location, they can check into a kiosk we have over there. We typically will send somebody over there. It would be patient dependent.
> When they need more labs, they'll walk to main lab area.

- **When come in for appts how do they find lab?**
> **P15**: Most know, but there are signs and volunteers that help them out, greet them, screen them due to covid 19. Most are regulars here.

- **Do you use Vetext to track patients?**
> **P14**: Other services do, but not here in lab. I think has to do with volume.

- **Change using activity buttons - how is that useful?**
> **P14**: Lets us know real tracking time. We "call" [button] them back after orders, then we have "done" [button]. Tells us the time our staff spent with them to completion.

- **Do you make changes after seeing the data?**
> **P14**: Targeting issues with our staff. We can see longer Turn Around Times for shortages. We have staff members who forget to click "done". We share data monthly with the team, then bring to upper management.

- **Are there any barriers for using buttons?**
> **P14**: Just forgetting. Most are so used to the system, we're able to do it.

- **Shared workstations?**
> **P14**: 3 computers in our area. If we had more that would be great. We don't have a monitor per station, we don't have a computer per person. They have to log in and share. We're in same area together. A lot of times, it's "can you click this for me now that I'm done".
> Supposed to go through remodeling. But now "can you call for me, click done for me."

> **P15**: I watch it a lot up here. If I see it in a timely manner and I know there done, I'll do it for them. We do that a lot.

- **What other programs do they have up during the workday?**
> **P14**: VistA  and Vetlink. Should we troubleshoot, we put up CPRS - VistA windows version that providers use. Click Vetlink what we want but we have to have VistA up as well.
> We don't schedule anyone so we don't even look at schedule, but we can pull up patient schedules. Not really for our lab. We help more patients without scheduling.

- **Anything about check in or vetlink we havent talked about yet?**
> **P15**: I like that on ticket it has time and date. We dont have Dr notes, [we tell them] take your tickets and they appreciate that.

> **P14**: Printing of labels is done in VistA. Check or uncheck in Vetlink and it prints in VistA. If we had a way to query for order and the patients can hold on to them, that would be great. But then theres "what if they dont grab their labels", and then a lot of phi.


- **Anything else gets printed?**
> **P14**: Just their number for Veterans. There are patients who come by who will ask for something for us to give them, we print their lab or lab appt for travel.

> **P15**: Not unless we accept or not accepted. One vetlink one is orders or no orders.Some people get upset - "I drove 100 miles and I won't get paid unless I have appointment."
> I have to explain that we dont have appts, but ill sign their paper say they were here.

> **P14**: Some clinics schedule for lab clinics. We don't schedule, but community based schedule for labs. A lot of the clinics like to schedule, but unless they are scheduled for lab, they don't have that appointment. Only a few specialty type of clinics. A lot of time they schedule but forget to enter orders.

- **Which ones?**
> **P14**: Nephrology. As a facility, we moved away from [scheduling]. The Veterans get upset and say we scheduled them, but then we say no we have to go off the orders. Lab clinic appointment does not equate to lab orders being there for us to process.
> A lot of clinics that are exceptions for us. Fo chemo, we only process 7 days, coumadin only 24 hours ahead. Clinic, provider, team driven.

> **P15**: Not many.

````
    - Possible follow up prompts / make sure to cover:
        - What about these options is working well? What's not working?
        - Differences between walk-in and scheduled check-in?
        - What options are available for lab / pharm / enrollment?
        - Why are these the options in place? Was anything else considered?
        - From a staff perspective, which of these works best/worst for you? why?
        - How does your role/tasks to complete change (if at all) based upon the check in method?  
        - When are identity / insurance / contact info / next of kin etc verified?
            - How often is it verified? Why is it important to verify it that often?
            - How is this information used by yourself or other staff?
            - When a Veteran updates their contact or next of kin information, is a notification of that change sent to the Veteran? (Example: Maybe a letter is sent saying your phone number was changed on X date. If you didn't make this change, then contact X.)
        - How has check-in changed w/ COVID?
        - Did your site use I am here - the texting check-in tool? If so, how well did it work for your facility?
        - If you could change one thing about the check-in process, what would it be?
````

- How do staff know that Veterans are checked in? (listen for VEText, VETlink, VSE, VistA)


````
  -	Possible follow up prompts / make sure to cover:
      - What tools do staff use to manage Veteran check-in?
      - Who needs to know that a Veteran is checked in? Do they all find out the same way?
      - __Do those staff have VSE open?__
      - Do Veterans ever end up in the waiting room without having fully completed check-in? What happens in that scenario?
      - What other hiccups come about with Check-in, how do staff manage them?
````

- How do staff communicate to Veterans when they are ready for their appointment or services?


````
  - Follow ups / look out for:
      - From a staff perspective, which of these works best/worst for you? why? 
      - How do staff know which Veteran to call next?
      - What about for low-vision and non-hearing veterans?
````

- What concerns would you have about Vets checking-in before they are physically on site versus allowing check-in to occur X minutes (maybe 10-20 minutes) before the scheduled appointment time?
- Checking in virtually. What concerns do you have with pre-onsite check in 30-60 min?


- Anything important about check-in that we haven’t discussed?

- Worries about decommissioned?


- From what we've talked about regarding check-in, what is most important to each of you?

## Second Task: Patient Tracking - 15 minutes
Next let's move on to how staff communicate about where the Veteran is in their appointment or service.
-	What are the ways staff at your facility communicate about where in the process the Veteran is?

````
    - Possible follow up prompts / make sure to cover:
        -	What is working about this process? What isn't working?
        -	Why are these the options in place? Was anything else considered?
        -   From a staff perspective, which of these works best/worst for you? why? 
        -	Who needs to track this information? Do they all access it the same way?
        -	Differences between walk-in and scheduled check-in?
        -	Changed w/ COVID?
        -	Does patient tracking system allow for handoff between clinics / facilities? (ie patient has multiple appts, or multiple parts to one visit?
````

- Anything important about patient-tracking that we haven’t discussed?

- From what we've talked about regarding patient-tracking, what is most important to each of you?

## Post-Task Interview - 10 minutes
- **What capabilities of the kiosk and VetLink software would you say MUST be included within the new system (the items that can’t be removed)?**
> **P15**: We have to know what appointments they have to see what labs they need. And the memos that we leave.

> **P14**: It enables our team to track progress for patients who are outliers. Querying people and see what appointments they may have. Looking at them in vetlink and it pulls that data from vista.

- **What worries do you have about the Kiosk & Vet link software going away and a new check-in process/system being available in its place?**
> **P15**: Please dont take it.

> **P14**: Whenever Vetlink isn't working properly, its chaotic. We have the old way of "please put your card here". Reviewing each card. Doing that manually. Query for orders, look at appointments.

> **P15**: Makes it really unorganized if we're not on top of it. They're up there at the front desk and I can't really work. It takes away from work too, because I need someone helping out.

> **P14**: Then PHI issues. You gotta be really careful. Especially with older pop they can't hear so you're yelling.

- **If you could design check-in anyway that you wanted, what would that check-in process look like?**
> **P14**: Check in, query for orders, labs come up, then if no labs contact your provider. If there's a way for lab orders to present, then print orders for patient even for future labels. Then we would use those.

> **P15**: When we're really busy, there's 4 buttons. "Call", then "with staff", then after staff "done with patient", then "done". We could do with one or two less buttons. 

> **P14**: We wish we could cut and paste which buttons we would want. Not have to do call, with staff, done with staff, done.

- **Is there a check out process?**
> **P14**: No, they're just done.

## Thank-You and Closing - 2 minutes
Well we really appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us today. Your feedback is so helpful to us as we continue to work on this experience for both staff and Veterans.
- Lastly, are there other folks from your site who weren’t in this conversation who have a different perspective that we should to talk to?

- Would your site be open to a site visit, where a researcher from our team observes check-in in person?

- **Any questions for me?**
> **P14**: Is this a national project to get new vendor or create one [new application]?

- **Moderator: It's national project being done with OVAC and OIT to explore what options there are. First part of that is research how people are using, what's working and not working then whether thats building something or working with a new vendor.**

> **P14**: We are a small facility but we all go through same issues. 

Great, well thank you so much again, and enjoy the rest of your day!

