# 7.7.20 metrics chat about disability rating w/ Steve

**TL;DR: Viewing disability rating is important to users as part of a larger flow that has to do with claim status. Users are trying to answer whether their claim status has been updated by checking on their disability rating.**

- People are building workflows off of disability rating.
- Why vets look at disability rating:
  - To make sure it’s correct
  - To make sure a states update from the past are applied correctly
  - To confirm something they did in the past works.
  - It’s become part of a flow they take to confirm claim status.
- This is why people log in to check claim status. People go claim status —> disability rating —> dependents —> etc. They just want to confirm the status of their claim by checking their disability rating.
- It’s about “did the thing I did before work?” Ie. Did the action they take with their claim status complete the claim, close it out, and result in an update to their rating?
- We could set baseline KPIs for clicks, but by itself, it doesn’t mean anything. BUT if you can see disability rating in the context of the other stuff and then take some kind of meaningful action, that’s what’s important.
- What we care about:
  - Cares about page paths —> how does this contribute to tasks?
  - Entrance —> Exit pages. This could tell us if people were satisfied with what they saw.
- What we don't care about:
  - We don’t care about how much traffic that page gets.
  - Could we actually expect to see fewer page views if disability rating is featured on the dashboard? Maybe, but pageviews alone doesn't tell us if we made a meaningful difference in the user's flow.
- Could be helpful to have more user research around disability rating and what meaningful actions should be associated with it.
- Rating really has more to do with people wanting to know status of claim or appeal.
  - Related thought: Since people want to see the status of their claim whether there is an action needed or not, perhaps reducing call center calls is a good metric for dashboard success.
