# Participants


## Older Veteran at the Beginning
- "This is so clean and easy to read!"
- Usually uses Meds.com to actually learn about the medicine
- Most important information:
	- Rx Number
	- Timeline of medication
	- Dosage

## Female - Veteran Caregiver

- Uses MHV (She calls "my health")
- Loves secure messaging - selects her doctor with dropdown
- There is no empathy in the system
- Narcotics was very hard to pick up at the medical center
- Most important info: interaction
- Has a premier account on my health but cannot order Rx which she does not understand
- "oh no that is the pill" -- User clicked on individual pills first 
- "They're going to love this -- I love this!"
- What expected to see on "Secure Messaging" User expects that there will be a refill message about that particular medication on the page. 
- "I don't like computers but this to me is so simple"
- "This is really simple, not time consuming. I'm not a computer person at all but this is so simple."
- "I'm probably doing something wrong but I'm not ignorant either... I mean I can read. It's probably me but for me not being able to figure it out is not good..."
- "That was the easiest thing I've ever done"

## Male Veteran - Fast Tracker 
- Most important info: side effect and interaction
- Suggests we focus on older veterans because they might struggle the most with technology
- Uses ebenefits but not MHV
- Has had pleasant experience with refill online but calls
When on
- History to see when was the last time he ordered
- Doesn't use secure msg but would love it -- incase he forgot and wanted to order at night and also have a track record for accountability
- Talks to a nurse on the phone to refill Rx
- "No back button to original page" -- How can we better direct users back to the first page?
Both Medication history and Tracking history are valuable:
	- Medication history: You want to know all the medications you took
	- Tracking medicine - You want to know when you normally order medication


## Older Gentleman Before Mr. Protocol Came
- Based on observation: Didn't know what to click on the dashboard or how to process any of the information. Big assumption based on his struggle to process any of the information, he might have been iterate. Also says that he uses his sister's computer. Generally not a computer user. 
- Calls doctor for refills

## General Observation

- A lot of people don't know you can refill Rx online
- How are we planning to announce Rx refill on Vets.gov?
Have script on phone to lead to vets.gov

Should there be a link back to dashboard?
Medicines label with Green refill button
Need more Dashboard pages
There is a window when you are ready to do a refill


# Next Steps

### Dashboard
- Do we need a dashboard?
- How can we make the landing page more inviting?
What is the first thing you want to do?

### Medicine Page
- Rx History - Maybe have a dropdown that helps filter by year
- Action at bottom of list?
- Green bar ghost button was missed

### Medicine Detail
- Small enough so doesn't feel overwhelming
- Have pill image here

### Tracking Delivery
- Auto refill?
- What is the difference between tracking delivery vs. View All
- If you click "refill again," a sign comes up saying that it is already getting delievered
- When redirected to a carrier's page, should we have a redirect message or window saying that you're leaving the page?

### Secure Messaging 
- Have SM on medication detail page to automatically message doctor about that specific medicine. Maybe have a link that says "Message to Refill this Rx"




