# Vet Centers - touchpoint meeting 8-31-2020

LH - initially we thought we’d tackle taxonomy first. But we first want to get alignment on website needs. 

Looking at detail page content plotting of required versus nice-to-have and local control versus national control. See Mural board, which was a work in progress on 8/31:
https://app.mural.co/t/vsa8243/m/vsa8243/1598619500695/c1d0401ae4e3e4483d8b136784ccd93a337dfbc3

Want to see what content: 
* Already have
* Coming from Aptive
* Get from VCs

Want to go through this to get on the same page. Next step is wireframe, looking at potential web page design. 

See screen. 

First went through REQUIRED items: 
**VC name, address and phone, hours, location map.** 

Jessica - VC names can change. Personally I don’t like them changing. You have accurate info now. From time to time, we get requests for change, especially depending on location of lease. Sometimes VCs move. Get 1-2 requests a quarter for changes. 

MM - is there a local name or nickname versus the more formal name? 

Jessica - if we have the request, we don’t have a conventional — I can only think of 2 — 1 is the Ogden VC that was renamed per Congressional bill with mayor’s name. 

**Intro copy:** Yes, have universal copy. Chief officer is signing off on copy that we think would be similar to website copy. Can get that to you in next few days. 

**Photos:** We are working to get that now. We’ve captured as much as possible. Hard with covid. Designers at Aptive have wide variety of pics now. They are selecting them for print materials. 

**Calls to action:** LH showed examples. 

Jessica - I’d be interested to hear what our OR specialists think. Many staff has said they prefer to have vets call a VC near them. Call center versus VC? 

Troy - the call center calls are the 24|7 calls. They reroute to local. Would want vets to email to all staff, not just OR specialist. Maybe specify couple categories of interest: counseling, communities, home loan. 

Elizabeth - along the same line ^ . This helps us prepare, have resources ready. If they call VC after hours, automatically goes to call center. 

Jessica - #1 should be call VC. **Priority of calls to action:** 
1. Main VC phone number
2. Call center
3. Email to all staff 
4. Events

Troy - **hours** can change locally. Can be handled easily by us. 

Jessica - it could. I do know our data team needs that. Traditionally we have liked to manage that nationally. Also so we are aware that ppl are changing the hours. Also want change address to be national. 

Aptive: 
Eligibility messaging, free | no cost messaging, confidentiality messaging. 

Moving past the REQUIRED section: 

Jessica - **Photos and videos** of open houses, specific clients, etc need nat’l oversight. Need a process around these types of photos and videos. Also **staff individual photos** would come from VC but need process. 

Jessica - if we have a vet service officer… What does “**community partnerships**” mean? That might be something the team and I need to think through. I’d be interested to know what VA is doing with that re: implied endorsement. 

Jessica and Elizabeth - If we offer space in our VC for VBA officer, should list on event calendar. 

Elizabeth - maybe local church has food pantry at VC, is donating resources. 

Jessica - Maybe I can get with the team and review that one. 

We need feedback on the rest of the board. Labor Day is next week. LH will create something in a bit more “digestible” format for Jessica et al to review.  

Jessica - yes, and I might need to get with our chief officer and districts on some of these things. I will also check with our data officer on hours. 



