# Vet Centers - touchpoint meeting 9-14-2020

Besides the outreach spec’ists, Jessica S, Ashley, Sue Candelier, and Caroline Brandt were on the call. 

Michelle M recorded the call. 

## Presentation
Leyda walked through the findings and recommendations from formative user research: 1-hour interviews with Vet Center outreach specialists in August 2020:
https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/blob/master/products/facilities/vet-centers/initiatives/2020-2021-modernization/discovery/outreach-specialist-interviews/Vet%20Centers%20Discovery%20-%20Research%20Findings%20.pdf

## Discussion after the presentation
JS - “you hit the nail on the head”
You have clearly IDed our challenges, how to help our staff. 

JS - revisit #2, recommendation to call: Would we also want to say call or stop in? 

DC - hesitant to chg recs bc COVID drove this one, which is the situation now. We can ask this ? or validate this in a later research sprint. 

JS - revisit #4 - svcs shd be illustrated in a non-clinical manner. 

DC - VCs are “the softer side of SEARS” - there is overlay with what is offered at a med ctr or clinic but the delivery mechanisms are softer — like the Aptive tag cloud. 

LH - progressive disclosure design philosophy. Tone and order would represent this. We are also leveraging Aptive research. 

DC - VCs are “best in class” for VA. 

JS - “That’s definitely something we can get behind.”

LH - we are ready to talk to Caroline and get some assets, then do prototype and test it with Vets. 

JS - include Sue, too. 

LH - we may seem quiet for a bit, getting the prototype and testing going. 

DC - as we do the UR, want to work with you to figure out what some pilot sites could be. We did Pitt on the VAMC side. That way, we can make chgs before rolling out to all 300 VCs. Wd be building prototypes this winter b4 rolling out nationwide (I think he means pilots wd launch this winter). 

JS - wd Aptive be asking all VCs for photos, etc, even though we are doing pilots with some VCs? 

DC - we want to learn from the pilot VCs re: data calls. (It was a bit unclear what he was saying, but it seemed to be this.)

DC - want to schedule a quick meeting with JS on the ?s she called LH about. 

JS - want vetcenter.va.gov needs to match facility page content. 

DC - for VAMCs, we work on the content with a few VCs before hardening it for all VCs. 
