# Vet Centers - touchpoint meeting 9-21-2020

**Catchment areas and how to administer services across rural areas**

Rich Barbado from 10-RCS, from the Planning and Policy office, the person Jessica asked to attend: 

We are at phase where we are trying to figure out where we are covering and where we’re not covering as best we could be. 

Last month we asked VCs for what they thought their svc area was by ZIP. Also asked for MVCs. The folks on this call can give helpful info. 

ArcGIS - just mapped the results into this system. Planning ofc objective is that when a lot of the physical VCs were stood up, there were factors that went into that. We are re-looking at coverage the physical locations have now. Projecting for when there won’t be Korean and Vietnam Vets anymore (by 2045). 

Doing overlays of current locations vs need. e.g. out west one VC covers huge area vs small urban cluster that can have multiple.

Are brick and mortar stations and outreach and MVCs deployed appropriately for Vets that are eligible?

Considerations like migratory patterns of Vets going to where jobs are. 

#### Access to care:

Rich - [new site should] "eliminate barriers", right now it's just a phone and address.

Suggests: Visual aids, e.g. location parking, what the team composition is. The more things you can have that may decrease the Vets’ level of anxiety, the better. "taking a step into the unknown", it's a big ask of anyone and when you couple that with the after effects of war, or trauma they've sustained,  If we can showcase those things up front, the more Vets will use the VCs. 

#### Future data calls 

Dave C - You did 1 call to the facilities, asking about ZIP codes they serve? Will this be a regular data call? And wd we be revisiting the positioning of that? Plans to keep that data fresh? 

Rich - yes, I understand that we plan to do this annually at a minimum. Don’t know what they did last time they did this. I’ve only been in VA 6 yrs. 

600 VAMCs. 300 VCs. 

Dave C - if you include the clinics with VAMCs, you get into the thousands. We’ll need this data to build and evolve the product. 

[Jessica joined.]

**Bryan - MVC catchment areas - static or change?** In New England area, personnel wise, you have a MVC assigned to a specific VC, so there will be a driver assigned to a specific Vet Center. But the MVC is a district asset. There are 5 districts across the country. Multiple MVCs support that district or region. E.g. the Hartford, CT VC has a MVC driver, he along with two other Vet Centers in New England support the New England region.
 That kind of overlaps depending on avail of MVCs, and their mission. But the MVC is a district asset and the district level assigns availability of the MVC (keeping the VC in the loop).. In New England, you have 18-20 VCs.

**Ken - Agrees, an MVC is just "logistically housed" at a VC.** Whatever Outreach Specialist is lucky enough to have one of those things right at their VC,  is tasked with operating it within their catchment area particularly at their VC, but can take it anywhere. Can be turned over to another Outreach Specialist. e.g. last week the MVC from Escanaba, MI was down in Milwaukee for quite a few days. "We swap that back and forth". The one here pretty much covers the Delta peninsula, Michigan, down into Wisconsin over the Mackinac Bridge into lower Michigan. MVCs can pretty much go anywhere the district or RCS need them to go. 

LH - if you find a need in a rural area 300 miles away, how would that work?

Ken - if a director for a certain VC (that VC has its catchment area), if they have a MVC, they can just use it. Or they can request a MVC. There’s not really a limit on where they cd go. Usually if there is a need, you request the closest one. If it’s not available, you just work your way out. 

LH - plan for all ZIP codes in the country to be assigned. 

Rich - in theory, yes but there are odd things like Dodger Stadium having own ZIP. Every military installation should have a zip code. Most VCs are located near military installations (less so OCONUS = Outside Continental United States). Military bases, too. First and foremost, we are looking for gaps in coverage and develop courses of action, plus up, etc. 

Chief officer often says "MVCs are Demand developers or reconnaissance" platform in certain areas.

**A real scenario that they want to see more of...**
Hopi or Navajo - started with us going, over multiple iterations, into "geographically isolated but densly Veteran populated". Moved eschelon by eschelon [establishing VC presence] because the demand required it. We figure out what the community looks like, do we need to send clinician and outreach specialist? Do we need outstation? In theory, that’s how it’s supposed to work. We want to bolster that.

Bryan - 1 big thing to get across on the website - not just looking at the brick and mortar VC — having that reach. Ok, temporarily we might push out a MVC and access point. But we really want to show that expanse, that reach. That reach is extremely important to represent. 

A VC’s might be over state lines. 

**Dave C - how do you communicate the catchment area and your reach with MVCs, etc **

**Rich - I think that’s what we’ve been struggling with.** It’s been a challenge. We’re trying to mitigate and eliminate as many barriers to access as possible. When I left the military, somebody told me there was a Vet Center in Lowell, that was the closest, I would have said "hell now, I'm not driving 2 hours round trip to Lowell" without knowing that 15 min down the road from my home of record, there was a community access point. If somebody said, hey, you have to jump on the grenade once, do a check and an eval, do an intake process, then you're free to see the clinician that's 15 min down the road from you, yeah, absolutely. But there was nothing electronically available to me out there on the ether, to say **here's the brick and mortar and concentric circles out from lowell that they're covering down on.** Up here in Haverill, they're covering near Glouster and further northeast. [BUT] Being on a living platform, you know people come and go, and we have to rain things in, when we're plused up running at 100%, we can roll stuff out.

**Bryan -**
How do we communicate about geographic avail to Vets today? It’s an in-depth convo about catchment areas, CAPs, etc. 

W.r.t. how to represent this on website: I was thinking about that radius, a veteran puts in their location, that Vet Center is highlighted, have a lit-up area of what the VC roughly covers. CAPs are often updated. Is there has been talk of putting them on the map as well? We used a MVC as a CAP for a ltd time. Not sure how we’d represent that. 

**Dave C -** freshness of data is critical. Especially if VA is revisiting where the brick and mortar VCs are over the new few years. 

**Ken -** that would be very helpful especially for more rural areas. If someone doesn't physically tell you, you wouldn't know. They aren't going to reach out. We have 3 therapists who work far away. 2 work 3 hours away. 3 hours one way.  

**Bryan -** I have a QR code on my business card. Vet Center address on front isn't very helpful. The QR code will up the closest Vet Center to the phone's location. Pulled up vetcenter.va.go legacy version QR code scanner.
















