# Profile editing evaluation - P1
9/27/22

Moderator: 
Talks participant through screen sharing and guide user to staging.va.gov/profile/contact-information

Moderator: 
Okay, great. So now i'm gonna have you go ahead and update the contact information. Except for mailing address let's go ahead and skip that one.
I’m just curious to see how this works for you adding contact information.
You can add real information, or just put fake information in whatever you feel like doing.

Participant: 09:50:39
Okay, Alright, Okay, This is where I live. Home address. [Clicks edit button and begins to scroll down form]

Participant: 09:50:48
Do I live on base? No country. okay. [verbalizes what they are entering]

Participant: 09:51:11
Hmm. [reads alert aloud] “We’ve updated your mailing address…”

Participant: 09:51:16
Do you want to update your mailing address?  No. So now let me go to choose to edit a home phone number [clicks edit button]

Participant: 09:51:30
[reads form aloud as they type, clicked save]. [Clicked choose to add a work phone number. I don’t even know why we have this on here, most of us Veterans don’t even work.

[clicks edit for work phone number and saves number, reading form fields aloud]

Moderator: 09:51:56
Okay, and i'll i'll go ahead and stop you there.  What can you tell me about that experience for you?

Participant: 09:52:07
 I like this better because my own personal experience. I've tried to change my phone number for the last I'm gonna say 10 years, and my phone number is still wrong. in the V A. gov system so yeah so every time they tell me they're gonna call me, they call the old home number, and then I get letters saying we couldn't reach you, make your appointment in 14 days, or your consult is going to be deleted.  And so then I end up missing consults like MRIs, and mostly radiology appointments, and I have to go through the whole process again. So this is beneficial, if it will, you know, if it actually will  update the information.

[participant shares long story about struggles updating phone numbers at VAMCs]

Moderator: 09:55:14
Okay. So now, i'm gonna have you do one other thing. You can go up to the  the home address, and edit it to make it purposely incorrect.

[participant scrolls down and updates zip code to make it incorrect. Alert appears]

Participant: 09:55:41
[reading] We couldn't confirm your edges with the postal service. Please verify your address, so we can save it.” Oooo!

Moderator: 09:55:53
Oh, tell me about this when you said., “Oooo”, what are you thinking?

Participant: 09:55:57
So it must be connected to the USPS site, and it doesn’t show this is an actual street. so is telling me are you sure? My parents address does that okay it's a rural area and it's where they actually lives.  But it always tell them something is wrong with the address. I've never seen this in here on this site here. but I see it on like the usps site. That's. why, I say it has to be connected to the Usps site with all of the street addresses in the US. Because it just told me that was No, I need to confirm it. But yeah, I notice that it does that. my parents address it.

Moderator: 09:57:10
Okay, So what would you do from here if it was my real address?

Participant: 09:57:19
If it was my real address, and it's telling me that it's wrong, I would say use this address, anyway, and hop that it'll take. So let me try and see if it'll actually save it. [clicks update, and modal to match mailing address to home address appears]

Participant: 09:57:42
[reading modal] Do you want to update your milling just to match this home address?

Moderator: 09:57:51
Yeah, well let's not do that, for this recession but you're saying yes, Tell me why you’d do that if this is your real address.

Participant: 09:57:59
I would choose. Yes, because I would want that to be the right one. Now there is I don't know if it works or not because in a rural area where I move from my mail and address is a PO Box. My physical dress is, you know, the physical. Thank you. And so the VA always wants the physical location. but we don't get mail. We don't have a mail carrier that comes that way.

We have a problem getting our mail in small town, Georgia, because they always want the physical address, and we try to explain to them all the time that mailing address is a PO Box. It’s hit or miss dependent upon where we go in the VA system.

Moderator: 09:59:01
And so in this case, if this was your rural address, would you still hit yes, or would you, to update your mail? 

Participant:
If this was my mailing address, I would hit No. Because I know the mail is not gonna go there.

Moderator: 09:59:21
Got it. That's helpful. Go ahead and hit No, just so we don't save a mailing address here. And then let's go ahead and remove the information that you added just to kind of clear this out

Participant: 09:59:43
[scrolls down and clicks remove button. Reads alert content aloud]
I always come back. Okay, yes, remove. 
[scrolls down and removes remaining contact information]

Moderator: 09:59:57
Now i'm gonna have you check out the notification setting section of your profile.  So if you could go to the profile menu.

Participant: 10:00:09
[first clicks main menu by mistake and realizes immediately it is the wrong menu]

Moderator: 10:00:14
Yeah. and then hit notification setting settings go ahead and go through this flow like You're gonna update notification settings.

Participant: 10:00:29
[reading alert content]
We don't have your mobile phone number to manage settings for text message is first adding mobile phone number to your profile.

Participant: 10:00:41
Okay, if I have a mobile number phone, number click edit to add a mobile number, okay
[clicks link to update mobile number. Adds mobile number and hits update button.]

Hmm: Okay. Now you can manage text notifications. Okay. [scrolls down page]

Participant: 10:01:15
You sounded kind of surprised. Can you say more about that, 

Participant: ]
because I just had a though. everybody don't have smartphones to get texts right. I had a flip phone forever, and I couldn't get any texts so for half of us veterans this won't be helpful. even though we add the number we can't get the texts. And then you got a half of us that do have phones that you can get texts but we don't know how to use them.

Moderator: 10:02:02
That was just a thought like “this would not be a helpful feature.”, you don’t think?

Participant: 10:02:06
Not for what not for the majority of us. The majority of us would probably just prefer you just call.

Moderator: 10:02:20
Go ahead and continue as If you are going to set it up.

Participant: 10:02:26
[scrolls down to email address]
Okay, do my email address? 

Moderator: 10:02:33
no, just for the texts. 

Participant: 10:02:36 
Oh, gosh, text notifications.
[scrolls back up and clicks link in confirmation alert]
Okay, So Hmm: Applications, claims, decisions, reviews and appeals.

Participant: 10:02:45
Board of Veterans appeals hearing reminder. Okay, Well, I’m assuming I would want that if I had to use that.

Moderator: 10:02:53
But okay, we'll go ahead and click don't notify me just to to test the process.

Participant:
[clicks radio button] update saved, ok, don’t notify me. 

Moderator: 10:03:04
Okay, and talk to me about that, does. How does that experience line up with your expectations of changing settings for that kind of thing?

Participant: 10:03:16
Well, because claims is something that we try to stay on top on top of for us that could use the feature that would be good. but I don't know if it'll be helpful or not, because we really can't do anything until we get that brown envelope in the mail. That the decision.

 So half the time if you tell me that I have a claim, and i'm about to get some information, and you don't actually give it information at the time and tell me that I have to wait, that just adds to the stress. I can’t say that this will be too helpful for the majority of us. 

Moderator: 10:04:11
And what about the process of turning the notification on and off? How did that sit with you? 

Participant: 10:04:13
It was simple. Honestly, when I update the email, I probably would have when I had to, like and got off because, that little piece that says, go ahead and update notification now -  it just totally went right past me. I totally just missed it. Maybe if it  jumped out at me, or had a big stop side or something I probably would notice, but I had you not said something, I would have missed it and thought “Okay, i'm good.”

Moderator: 10:04:58
 would you have thought that your notifications were turned on at that point?

Participant:
Yes, I would have.

Moderator: 10:05:04
That's so helpful to know. Okay, alright. Well, i'm so when we're done with this part now. So i'm gonna go ahead and have you sign out of this website. you can do that by going up to the Sam and the top sandwich. Yep, and hit sign out and Now i'm gonna have you go to a prototype.

This is this is really basic. it's not gonna work exactly the way you think it would. but just to give you an idea of another approach to editing contact information.  [gives URL information to participant and participant opens prototype]

Moderator: 10:06:09
The mailing address and the home phone numbers both actually are clickable. You can click on the edit link, so go ahead. And you know, imagine you needed to edit this address

Participant: 10:06:25
[clicks edit and begins to edit information]
That little button down there [iOS autofill on keyboard] makes it so much easier.
[continues speaking what is entered into the fields, clicks update]. What? Why didn’t it update?

Moderator: 10:06:59
What did you hit? It’s not gonna actually show your updates since it's just a prototype. So talk to me about what you you do the next. sounds like It didn't work like you expected it.

[participant explains they expected autofill to work on prototype]

Moderator:
Ah, got it. Ok.  Home number is the other one. 

Participant: 10:07:49
Home number, home number, homenumber. Why do we even have a home number? most people don't even have landlines anymore. What’s the purpose of putting a home number and then they're not gonna call my home number, anyway.

Participant: 10:08:05
Let me see what 703 so i'm gonna put my cell number here from my home number, and there's no extension. Most people don't have extensions on the home number first, but just in case, I guess that's what is there.

Moderator: 10:08:21
Okay, and Then again, it's not gonna save it because it's just a prototype. What are some differences you notice this in the prototype and the website you used previously other than your auto fill doesn't work?

Participant: 10:08:42
Um [hesitates, thinking]. Not much. Not much of a difference. I mean it's still asking me for the same information.  The look is just different. The look is different. The look is more more clean ascetic, kind of boring. The other one has pretty colors and a lot of us are just visual. Even if it has  some kind of color, something it'll get our attention. 

And thank goodness, I only had to do like a couple of things, because my attention span gets really short if something is not jumping out at me. 

Moderator:
Okay, but if you had to fill out this whole page, you feel like maybe that would be difficult.

Participant: 10:09:35
I would say, fill it out if I had to fill it out. I could but yeah, it just didn't I didn't feel anything about it. 

Moderator: 10:09:49
Did you notice that the prototype takes you to a new page for each step, whereas on the website it was all on one page?

Participant:
Yes! Yes it sure did.

Moderator: 10:10:03
What are your thoughts on that? 

Participant: 10:10:11
It didn't really make a difference.  Yeah, it didn’t make a difference that it went to another page because my focus was just on updating the information. and so anything else that it did it just kind of went by I'm: like, Okay, my focus is go to here and edit this information. It just okay, let me get back to where I suppose we but

Participant: 10:10:39
But the other one. The other one is I guess because it is there, you know you don't it have to move or anything. It's a little bit more appealin, the one that you had me do the first time.

Moderator: 10:10:59
Well, that was everything I wanted to get your feedback on today. what was challenging about it?

Participant: 10:11:15
The the doing the actions weren't really challenging it's just in the back of my mind. It's almost like what's the point it is like why am I doing this? Am I doing this again? you know i've already updated this. Why don't they already have this? Yeah, so the  putting in the information wasn't challenging. [Laughs]  Well, no, everything is blurry when I take off my glasses and my magnifier away. So it just takes me a minute to to do it, because the the font is so small in sometimes I can get clumsy with my fingers. But the actual doing wasn't that challenging.

Moderator: 10:12:19
It doesn't look like you're using your magnifier, so you're still able like take you without it.

Participant: 10:12:29
Oh, I put my glasses on so I can hold it closer to me, and not be fumbling, and cause it'll it'll take me a minute when i'm when I have my hands behind my magnifier screen. And so, just for this, I know we were on a time constraint, so that's why I pulled out my glasses so I can hold it closer. but I prefer to use the magnifier.

Moderator: 10:13:05
Then let me go ahead and let me show you one thing i'm trying to.

Moderator: 10:13:12
I'm gonna save the transcript before I forget awesome and I was.

Moderator: 10:13:19
I mean that was everything. Do you have any questions, or comments, or anything else before we wrap up?

Participant: 10:13:24
Now, who who decides what information is in this [profile]?

[Moderator tells participant that it’s a variety of departments that get together to decide what is important and technically possible based on veteran needs and current va system capabilities]

[Moderator asks participant if they have time for one more task, and has them log in to staging.va.gov again]

Moderator: 10:18:16
Okay, great So now let's just go ahead and go to the home phone number.

Participant:
Was this here before? What?  Wait, says we will send you VA Letters, bills, and prescriptions to this address. 

Moderator:
It was yes, 

Participant :
Oh, that just went totally over my head. You know, you said not to update the mailing address. So that's why, I didn't pay any attention . Okay, Where am I going? just to the one of the phone numbers?

Moderator: 10:19:09
Okay, Now go ahead and just go to any of the phone numbers 

Participant: 10:19:18
I'm gonna go to the work numbers that's the one that Yeah. Okay, then. 

Moderator:
just put a number in in and then don't hit update. now try to edit another section, another phone number or address without…Yeah, you can go ahead and hit that [edit button on next section].

[cancel changes alert appears]

Participant: 10:19:56
 [reading] You're currently editing your work. Please go back and save or counsel your work before editing a new section of your profile. 
I don't know if that's good or not because…. because for the sake of time, if I have to edit each little piece, one at a time, that's good to cost me, you know, 3-4 seconds in between each one. depending upon my Internet and
then sometimes being in a rural location it's gonna do that little buffering thing, i'm gonna get bored, and i'm gonna stop, because if it buffers like 2 times. I'm just like okay, i'll come back to it later, and then i'll forget to come back to it later. So I I’ll end up not editing anything, and leaving the wrong information there. 

But like on your other page, where you can do it all, and then do update that that right there will save time, even though the other page is like kind of aesthetically boring, it'll save me more time if I can just okay put the information here. Put the an update one time versus update each in individual piece

Moderator:

Well, the the other prototype did have you enter everything separately like you could not update your and you're, you know, like you'd have to go back and forth.

Participant: 10:21:49
Ooooh! You know what I'm thinking. Okay, I guess because I could see all of the, ok, I could see it'll say edit, but I don't see the lines [form inputs] to put it in. So I guess on the other one, because I saw the lines to me that made me think, Okay, Okay, and do it all i'll here, because I can see it all.

I guess that that must be Why.

Moderator: 10:22:23
Okay, that's helpful, and then go ahead and hit cancel here.

Participant: 10:22:31
[reads alert aloud]
“Are you sure?” Yes, [clicks button] 

[session wrap up]
