# Profile editing evaluation - P10
9/29/2022

[Moderator guides participant through screensharing and staging.va.gov/profile/contact-information]

**Moderator:** I would like for you to go ahead and update the contact information that you see here.

**Moderator:** 12:26:54
You can start with any field you don't need to use your real information.

**Moderator:** 12:26:59
But if it's easiest for you to just enter things that you know, then that's totally fine

**Participant:** 12:27:12
Okay, wait a minute. I'm gonna put in my real address.

**Moderator:** 12:27:20
Okay, we'll remove everything when this is done.

[participant uses autofill and clicks update. Immediately scrolls to phone number section. Appears to miss address validation alert]

**Participant:** 12:27:33
Okay. Phone numbers. Oh, Lord, I never…

[clicks edit and triggers currently editing alert. dismisses alert without reading it]

Oh, Home Phone number. Do I put that in?

**Moderator:** 12:27:52
You can go ahead and edit any of the fields that you would if this is your own profile. 

**Participant**: Okay, this says you are editing your home address, I don't know what that means. I don't think it's going to let me.

**Moderator**: okay and Why not?

**Participant:** 12:28:09
I don't know because it went to home address it's says, choose edit to add a home phone number, and I hit edit. And it says, Please go back and save or cancel your work before.

Oh, update, Okay, Okay, You gotta read. You gotta be able to read.

[participant realizes what has happened and clicks update, without ever scrolling back to up to see the address validation alert. Triggers alert to sync mailing address with home address]

**Moderator:** 12:28:40
Okay, And what is this telling you? 

**Participant:**It tells me we have this mailing address for you on file, and it has your address, I guess, Panorama City, California. Do you want to update your mailing address to this one? Yes. [clicks yes]

**Participant:** 12:29:05
Yes, we've updated it to my address. close [clicks close button] right? update saved.
Now we edit the phone number is that right?


**Moderator:**  there is no right or wrong here. You can do As you've feel but you feel it is the next thing that you'd like to do. 

**Participant**: [clicks edit home phone number button] I hope I can remember it because it belongs to Robos. They they are the only ones who use it. Oh, gosh I don't even answer it. Okay, update that.  [scrolls down] And then mobile edit this. [triggers alert] please go back and save or cancel your work.

[clicked edit before update had completed saving]

Okay, Alright, update SAVED. , this is where you currently live.

**Participant:** 
Phone numbers.  I thought I updated it I don't have a work.

**Moderator:** 
Okay, and then, mobile i'll add the edit that Okay.

**Moderator:** 12:30:32
Okay, Okay, great. So i'll have you stop there what was difficult If anything about making those updates? 

**Participant**: The fact that I had to read everything.

**Moderator:** 12:30:48
Do you normally expect to have to read so much when you're updating information? 

**Participant**: Well, I just didn't pay attention in the beginning. That was the only thing. My mind moves fast.

**Moderator:** 12:31:15
Okay, that's totally understandable. I wanted to have you go back up to the home address section and take a look at something up there. So if you click on [participant clicks edit for home address] yeah, go ahead and edit the home address. The first time you entered it you had, I think, mistakenly put a comma after the 9. 1 3.  [moderator guides participant to repeat initial entry and click update to trigger address validation]

**Moderator:** 12:33:01
Talk to me about what you see here on the screen.

**Participant:** 12:33:05
We couldn’t confirm your address with the Us. postal service. Please verify your address. [reads alert content]. It said. I entered, and you know what you said. 3, 0 0 6, 4. But mine is actually 3 0 0 9 4. 

**Moderator: **I’d like to ask you just a couple more questions about this is, how clear is this information to you?

**Participant:** 12:33:39
It's very clear. I know, where I live.

**Moderator:** 12:33:50
Okay, And let's imagine that this suggested address was also incorrect. How would you go back and edit the address to make sure that everything was the way it should be.

**Participant:** 12:34:02
Well, I would read it and see if it had everything, cause I do make mistakes. I would look at it first before entering it.  But see normally, whenever I have to put an address it, you know, like it comes up automatic, and I just hit the button that says you know, put in the address.

**Moderator**: you mean like in your like the auto, fill feature. kind of saved on your computer? 

Participant: yes

**Moderator:** 12:34:41
Okay, And if you had to, if you wanted to manually review it again, how would you go back from here to do that, like if you wanted to You know, changes the zip code yourself or the suggested address was not correct.

**Participant:** 12:34:57
Go back. I would go back and and or up, you know, updated How would you go back?

**Participant:** 12:35:09
I guess I would. I guess I would just I don't know ed edit and go look at it again. I don't know. 

**Moderator:** Okay, Okay, that's helpful it's good. It's helpful for me to understand how you would do that. Was anything unexpected or challenging about going making all these updates?

**Participant:** 12:35:42
Not really i'm used to making a lot of I have to read carefully when I go to the VA Site, because, it isn't always on task so I do have to read carefully.

**Moderator:** 12:36:02
Okay, And how's this font size for you or Do you feel like you need to use your magnifier?

**Participant:** 12:36:09
No, this is fine. 

**Moderator**: Okay, that's good to know alright well, next i'm going to have you remove the information that we've added here no the mailing address won't be able to be removed, but the rest of the fields. You can click the remove button.

**Participant:** 12:36:37
What, for the the phone number? 

**Moderator**: Yeah, just so that we can clear out your information from here.

**Participant:** 12:36:44
Okay, Okay [clicks remove button and triggers currently editing alert] You are currently editing [reads alert]. 

**Moderator**: What does this mean to you? This alert?

**Participant**: What? What is this?  I guess what I should have hit is not remove but edit and it's take it out. I would have probably tried that choose edit to add a work phone number. Yeah, I would have probably, if it didn't remove Then I would have to go back and edit and backspace it out.

**Moderator:** 12:37:31
Yes, i'm curious to learn how you would go ahead and remove it. when you try to do that there's a message that pops up, and I want to get your feed your understanding of that, too. Let's go back up and just try one more time to remove.

**Participant:** 12:37:56
You can just try to remove the home address. Okay. [scrolls up and mouses over update and cancel buttons in mailing address section. Eventually chooses update]

**Moderator:** 12:38:04
Let's see, I see you kind of choosing between those 2 buttons. What would you expect it to happen?

**Participant**: I Don't know. I don't know let's see edit. you say remove it now?

**Moderator:** 12:38:28
Yeah. remove the remove the address. 

**Participant**: Okay, remove all the [reads street name].

**Moderator:** 12:38:37
Is that in this this is the way you would expect it to work if you were going to remove an address?

**Participant:** 12:38:43
Yes. Oh, it's asking which one then? [opens menu for states] yeah Oh, okay. So what now?

**Moderator:** 12:39:02
i'm gonna actually give you a hint this will not be this won't work because our fields are required. So go ahead and hit cancel.  And now go down to the home field and i'll just have you click the remove button there. and now it should work. 

**Participant:** 12:39:26
Remove? Yes, okay, this will remove. [reads alert] Okay, yes. remove my information. I always talk out. Okay. Update [clicks update button]

**Moderator:** 12:39:45
Yeah. and then you can go through and remove the other pieces of information that you've entered. 

**Participant**: what the phone number?

**Moderator:** 12:40:01
Yes. And I see you kind of going back between those buttons. [participant is hovering over  “yes, remove information” and then cancel. What were you thinking there? 

**Participant**: Well, I have to be some a lot of things I have to read again. My sight is changing. and even though I have on glasses sometimes I have to read things over just to be sure. cause i'm elderly! I have to read things over and over sometime, you know, to be certain.

**Moderator:** 12:40:46
Okay. And then if you can continue down and remove the mobile phone number.
[participant removes all information] 
I just wanted to make sure that all this is cleared out for the next step of of what we're going to look at.

So now, if you can go to the notification settings section in the profile.

[moderator guides participant to notification settings]

**Moderator**: Now i'd like you to imagine that say that you are getting text messages from the VA. That you no longer want to receive, and you want to update your notification settings. Show me how you would do that.

**Participant**: I'm not sure i'm getting text messages from the Va. That I do not want to get and I they don't have my cell number anymore. 
So what do I do? I don't know I don't know what I do. I guess. How are they sending me messages If if they don't have my number?

**Moderator:** That's a good question. that could happen with because there are various systems in the VA that are not connected. Let's just go through like  say that you just wanted to manage your text message Notifications. Go ahead and add a mobile number to your profile.

**Participant:** Okay. [clicks link in alert and goes back to contact information. Clicks edit for mobile number and easily adds number to profile]

**Participant:** Update?

**Moderator**: is that what you would normally do?

**Participant:** Mm hmm. [clicks update, reads confirmation message] Update saved now, you can manage text, notifications. [scrolls down page]

**Moderator:**And tell me about that. What is that telling you? 

**Participant:** Oh, okay, then, that's okay, it's it's fine. It says  now you can manage text, notifications that's fine. 

**Moderator**: Okay, and if you wanted to update those settings, how would you do that from here?

**Participant:** I would edit it. [hovers over edit button for mobile number] 

**Moderator**: the the text setting?

**Participant**: I do receive text messages and emailed from the Va.

**Moderator:** 12:44:25 So If you wanted to manage the settings for those from here?  

**Participant**: I would edit it.

**Moderator:** 12:44:34 You would edit your phone number?

**Participant**: Edit it or remove it, yes. 

**Moderator:** 12:44:47
Okay, I'm gonna have you go back up to the notification settings Section again. And now that you have a phone number. Show me how you would change the settings here.

**Participant:** 12:45:17
I wouldn't change it. I would leave it like it is. 

**Moderator:** 12:45:23
And why is that? 

**Participant**: Because I do need to to receive text messages about different things from the from the VA.

**Moderator:** 12:45:32
Okay? And what are these messages for? 

**Participant:** 12:45:40
Appointments, or different services that I might need. If they choose to text me. You know, that’s how I keep in touch with them.

**Moderator:** 12:45:54
On this particular page are those notifications. part of the setting, or from what you can tell?

**Participant**: it seems to be. If the Va needs to use contact information to notify me about different things. Then, why would I keep my information from them?

**Moderator:** 12:46:29
Right right. For the purpose of this, this is just a test website. This is not gonna affect anything for you VA. Imagine that you wanted to stop getting the notifications. Can you show me how you would do that here.

**Participant**: yeah I would simply hit this [hovers over radio button] Don’t notify me. Okay, right? update saved. don't notify me.

**Moderator:** 12:46:53
Okay, and and now what would you not be notified about?

**Participant:** 
I would not receive text messages about appointments or I guess medication stuff that they might need to text mean about 

**Moderator**: Okay, and right above the update saved. Can you read the text to me that's right immediately above it?

**Participant**: You mean applications claimed decision group? 

**Moderator:** 
Right between applications and update Saved. D you see, the text that says board of veterans appeals Hearing reminder? 

**Participant**: Yes.

**Moderator:** 
Had you seen that before. 

**Participant**: I don't think so. I can't remember.

**Moderator:** 
Okay, thank you that's very helpful how does this align with your expectations for managing text message settings?

**Participant:** 
It's seems rather simple. It seems very simple to me 

[Moderator guides participant to remove mobile number, sign out, and over to prototype]

**Moderator:** 12:50:30
See how you would edit your mailing address and home phone number here.

**Participant:** 12:50:40
Okay. [clicks edit link] Well, ordinarily I would just hit this. [autofill button] 

**Moderator:** 12:51:10
I don't know if that'll work in this prototype.
Look at that. Oh, and interesting. Okay, and it's not gonna actually save your information just so you know 

**Participant:** 12:51:30
alright.. [clicks update, goes to address validation screen] Just hit any of them (radio buttons)? 

**Moderator**: Yeah, what is this telling you? Talk to me a little bit about that before you move on.

**Participant:** 12:51:36
 it said I entered 1, 2, 3, anywhere street. Chicago Pennsylvania. 

**Moderator:** 12:51:44
You can just choose either one.

**Participant:** 12:51:53
Okay, i'll choose this one [suggested address, clicks update.] Okay. [scrolls up and down screen] Okay.

**Moderator:** 12:52:11
And then home Phone: number

**Participant:** 12:52:20
Alright. [clicks edit link] Put mine?

**Moderator:** 12:52:26
Sure, or you could just change one digit in here it doesn't it's not gonna save it. But it's just this way. you can kind of get the feel for how it works.

**Participant:** 12:52:37
Okay, alright. [clicks update and goes back to confirmation screen] 

**Moderator**: Okay. So what are some of the differences? you notice from this and the website we were on previously.

**Participant:** 12:52:51
Well, It's it's a lot simpler it's a lot easier to maneuver.

**Moderator:** 12:53:03
What's easier about it?

**Participant**: Well, over here it's just a couple of boxes, and it it just seems not as much work. Or maybe i'm already into you know, i've learned the system, and this is a better one. Easier.

Moderator: Can you elaborate on what's better about it?

**Participant:** 12:53:41
Simpler, not so much to read not so much, not so many words.Just it's straight to the point in a little box you know rather than, do this, Do that, do the other. It’s simpler.

**Moderator**: Okay, Yeah, so far alright let's see here, I wanna just look through my list of questions here. Oh, so one thing i'm curious if you noticed the prototype takes you to a new page. Each time you make an update, whereas the website we were looking at everything happened on one page. Did you notice that? 

**Participant:** 12:54:25
Yes, 

**Moderator**: what are you thoughts about that?

**Participant:** 12:54:32
It is certainly easier to, you know, to get to maneuver it. it's not as complicated as the other page, you know, having to do this and push this button and that button and you know. It’s just a lot simpler.

**Moderator:** 12:54:54
Okay, that is very helpful to know. Talk to me about your overall experience editing contact information today, as we go went back and forth through the couple of websites.

**Participant:** 12:55:10
Well, at first you know I didn't have any expectations, and I have to learn you know what it was you were doing. I had to learn to maneuver this up here, and then by the time we got to the other page, you know, and you know, to read everything. I had to read. I I think I got a little confused on the first, the way the first section was organized, and I had to learn it. You know, I do recognize. 

**Moderator**: Do you remember specifically what confused you?

**Participant:** 12:56:03
Quite a bit, because I’ve not ever seen that kind of format before. And it It was you know. It required me to actually read, you know, rather than you know, just fast glancing at it like this. I can kind of glance at and see, and there is Edit and It's simple.

**Moderator:** 12:56:33
Have you ever needed to update your contact information on va.gov?

**Participant:** 12:56:42
Not really. it's been the same for a long time.

**Moderator:** 12:56:53
Well, stability and consistency is nice for sure that means that you haven't had a big move, and and moving is always a pain in the butt.

**Participant:** 12:56:59
No. I came here in 2000 and i've been right here ever since the same phone number the whole number.

**Moderator:** 12:57:09
Well, that was everything I wanted to get your feedback on today.

[moderator goes through wrap up session]
