# Profile editing evaluation - P11
10/5/2022

- Participant joins session from iPhone using VoiceOver. 
- Participant is blind.

[moderator guides participant to prototype]

**Moderator:** Go into the web page and see how you would edit your mailing address and home phone number and talk to me a little bit about what you're hearing.

**Participant:**  11:10:47
it read my Chicago address, and then I have a link underneath of it. It says, edit but right now I couldn't edit that address I don't think until I hit the edit link. Okay, is that right? 

**Moderator:** It is right. And how many addresses did it read aloud to you?

**Participant:**  11:11:07
Well, I just did the only one, but I just started swiping right from the top. If I kept going, or if I let it read the whole page to me, I may hear more.

**Moderator:**   11:11:20
Okay, And is that normally how you navigate where you're just kind of like jump to something or how do you familiarize yourself with the content on a web page?

**Participant:**  11:11:31
I usually just start at the very top. and swipe to the right, or I may switch to heading and go down by and use the navigate by heading.

**Participant:**  11:11:45
I don't have the patience that a lot of people have. I don't have any patience. I don't like to read a lot of extra stuff. So I try to usually try to get to where I need to be as fast as possible.But sometimes, you know, if i'm on a completely unfamiliar page, I may just have to read the page, you know, that makes sense.

**Moderator:**   11:12:05
Okay. we'll go ahead and continue exploring the page and see if you can edit your mailing address and your home phone number

[participant tabs down page, focusing on each element]

**Participant:**  11:12:32
So I have a home address. I have 3 phone numbers but every one of those as an edit it says Link. But and edit after that you want me to go ahead and try to do it.

**Moderator:**   11:12:51
Yes, please, and specifically for the home phone number and the mailing address cause The rest of them will not work since it's a prototype

[participant skips over mailing address section]

**Moderator:**   11:13:13
So the very first edit the very first section it's it seems like you missed it.

**Moderator:**   11:13:19
Is for mailing address on the page

**Participant:**  11:13:30
Sorry I thought that was the one I hit but I guess it wasn't

**Moderator:**   11:13:36
Now tell me about where you've landed.

**Participant:**  11:13:41
So I can desk it. reads me the street address, and so forth, and I can just double tap in there to edit that field.

**Moderator:**   11:13:49
Okay, You want me to do that

**Moderator:**   11:14:02
Properly. You know that you understand that it is a form field that you can put information in. You can just make your way down, you know. Imagine that you had updated your information. tell me what you would do from here to to make that update on the page.

**Participant:** 
It is telling me that you know each part of that address, and it is it does have that asterisk to tell me it’s required. And it has an update button there, and a cancel button. Which I think is what I need to do to get out of it. [hits cancel button] and you want me to do the home phone?

**Moderator:**  
Yes, please. And what is it reading to you now .

**Participant:**  11:14:58
I have the it's reading me the home phone number that's in there, and then the next field would be extension, and then there's an update and cancel button.

**Moderator:**   11:15:07
Okay.

**Participant:**  11:15:16
And you can see this, too. Right? 

**Moderator:**   11:15:22
Yes, yes, I can. Yeah. And you know, Tiffany actually found some information about how we might be able to hear the screenreader. Before we leave the screen while it's still fresh, can you just talk to me a little bit? about your experience you know navigating this form and updating contact information on this prototype that I've taken you to?

**Participant:**  11:15:47
Oh, that was that all worked perfectly. it's very simple and clear.

**Moderator:**   11:15:54
Okay, was there anything confusing about it.

**Participant:**  11:16:02
No. It's just a personal preference for me that, you know, Home Address: phone email, all that stuff I usually just like to all that to be on one single form. But that's just me. 

**Moderator:** Okay, was it clear to you that when you that you went to a new page to update the information.

**Participant:**  11:16:23
Oh, yeah, because the safari tells me that I went to a new page, and it also plays a little chime. So I know that it did. Yeah it's there's no problem knowing that, there's no problem navigating back. I mean the the navigation bars, you know. some websites Take the navigation bar away, but just it stays on yours So back, back, forward. All that stuff still works.

**Moderator**: And is that cumbersome for you, or pretty easy to Keep going back and forth?
 
**Participant:**No, that's just That's just standard So it's no problem.

[Moderator and participant try to troubleshoot Zoom audio sharing. Unsuccessful]

[Moderator and participant attempt to log into staging unsuccessfully. Participant switches to laptop and JAWS, and logs into their own account in VA.gov. Moderator guides participant to contact information]

(48 minute mark on recording)

**Moderator:** So now that you’re here on the contact information page, I’m going to have you go ahead and update the contact information you see here. I’ll make sure we go back and change it back to what’s there today.

[ Participant begins to navigate, clicks edit button for mailing address. Updates mailing address without problem and triggers address validation. Reads alert through screenreader.]

**Moderator**: Tell me what you’re thinking as you read that.

**Participant**: Ok, so it can’t find that address because I took the T off. So it wants me to go back and change it. [clicks edit button in alert. Updates address] That works perfectly. That was very clear.

[Participant explains JAWS shortcuts]

**Moderator**: Now go ahead and just make some updates to the rest of the information on this page. 

[participant explores button on page and choose to edit work home number. Tabs through fields and goes back to phone number. Number is automatically highlighted and participant presses 6, so the field is just ]

**Participant**: I just tab tab tab until I get to the update button, And then I’m going to press enter. Now my computer always stays in, JAWS stays in what is called form mode, so I have to get out of that to hear what it actually did. 

[Has to tab back up to hear error message. Tabs into field and does not realize there is already a number 6 again. Error announces.]

**Participant**:  I don’t know why it’s doing that.

[goes back into form field and clears it. Tool tip announces as pop up. Saves form, update save announced]

**Moderator**: Talk to me about that process, of updating that phone number.

**Participant**: that’s one of those little weird, uh, fields I guess, because you created this website. I know a little bit about web development. And if that’s an actual phone number field then it gives a little bit of a weird field type to JAWS. It doesn’t say an edit box, it says it’s a combo box. Because it does that, if I’m not at the end, it automatically wants to put my cursor at the beginning instead of at the end. And when I tab into it, I don’t think it selected the whole field. I can’t select everything to back it out. I have to go all the way to the right and then I can clear everything out. That’s not you, it’s just that combo type.

**Moderator**: Was that clear to you as you were trying to edit it? It doesn’t sound like it told you.

**Participant**:  No. Well, it was prompting me that it wasn’t happy. Because it was an alert. But if I interrupt the alert, if I arrow or something and the alert gets interrupted…but that’s me. I tend to jump around very fast. That’s the whole patience thing again. If I was trying to do it normally, that wouldn’t happen. I’m trying to go fast because we’ve been here a long time. I would normally listen better.

**Moderator**: I have plenty of time, so you don’t need to rush for my sake. [time check, participant agrees to continue]. Now I’m going to have you remove your mobile phone number and we’ll add it back in a little bit.

[participant expected to be able clear field by removing phone number and saving. Moderator guides to remove button for mobile phone number, participant skips over are you sure alert content] 

**Participant**: Ok. It’s probably a little hard on you because Ive got JAWS speaking fast.

**Moderator**: I had told you where the remove button was, and I know earlier in our session you came across that button on other fields.

**Participant**: If I did, I forgot it. I would’ve been stuck there for a minute because to me, if I edit it and blank it out, and update it, that to me is the same as removing it. So, when I got back there, because it wouldn’t let me out of that, I would’ve been there for a while confused. If I were to read this whole area before I hit edit, I would’ve seen there was a remove button. But that’s me. 

**Moderator**: Got it. Ok so now what I’m going to have you do is imagine that you heard that there are some really helpful notifications that you can get from the VA, and you wanted to sign up for text notifications. There is a section in the profile called notification settings, so I’m going to have you go there and show me how you’d sign up for text notifications. 

[participant starts to navigates to notification settings. 58 minute mark. Explains how he understands various links on pages using JAWS]

[1hr 3 minute mark, gets to notification settings page]

Moderator: Go ahead and show me how you’d set up those notifications.

**Participant**: [reads alert content] If I wanted notifications via text it would have to have a mobile number. [Clicks link to contact information page. Focus is on mobile edit button, goes up and down page to understand what is there. Adds mobile phone number. ] It says now I can manage them and there’s a link to go do that, so I’m going to do that. [clicks link to go back to notification settings page]

**Moderator**: Before you continue, I want you to be aware that this will actually update your notification settings since we’re in your account.

**Participant**: I don’t mind that at all. I didn’t know this was here. [listens to notification name, chooses to opt in]. So that little alert right there, the only thing I didn’t like about that is that I would like the option to save it myself. Here, if you accidentally hit the space bar or whatever, it changes it whether you really wanted it to or not.  

**Moderator**: So you’d rather there be button to press after you enter the radio. 

**Participant**: Yes, only because, this to me is a form field. Because it’s a form field I would expect that to have a save button not for that to automatically do it.  Not that that’s wrong but that’s just how I would expect to do it.

**Moderator**: that’s all I would like to have you do in this session. Thinking back to updating your contact information, tell me about your experience with that.

**Participant**: This site is actually pretty clear. It’s as clear as it can be. Nothing is ever going to be perfect, because what one person likes another person might now. One thing I will tell you is because a lot of time, that, alert, a lot of websites, those alerts don’t read. In other words, JAWS doesn’t hear that alert. And if JAWS didn’t hear that alert, I wouldn’t know that it had saved. It. But you’ve got it set up so that it does.  That’s the thing with screenreader technology you have to be sure the alerts get focus so they read out loud

**Moderator**: That’s exactly why we do these sessions so we can learn these things and be sure we’re doing ok or learn where we can improve. Was there anything confusing about the process of updating your street address, when you took the T off of the street and tried to save it.

**Participant**: No, because it told me everything I needed to know that was wrong with it. That’s a whole lot easier than trying to figure it out yourself.

**Moderator**: Did you notice on the website you updated all your contact information on one page, whereas on the prototype it was different pages?

**Participant**: I don’t know that I noticed it wasn’t switching pages. Usually, for me, how I’m used to most web forms being, if you’re going to update your contact information, it’s all just one form. So address, street address, city, state, zip, phone - it’s usually just one form. So you have one edit button, and one update button.That doesn’t make this one wrong, it’s just different.

**Moderator**: and this process of updating notification settings, I know it was unexpected that there wasn’t a button to save the form. What are some of your other thoughts about updating these settings?

**Participant**: that was all perfectly clear. And it was really nice that I didn’t have to navigate somewhere and do it myself. It took me where I needed to do it, and then it took me back to where I was. It’s always aggravating it says well you need this and you have to come here to do it, and then go back to finish it. This being all in line here made it very simple to me.

**Moderator**: That’s very helpful. And I think we corrected all of the information in your profile from the previous round, so I think we’re good there. And that’s everything. I appreciate you being willing to spend extra time with us and juggle different devices.

**participant**:  I just have a couple of questions. I know you have other blind people that do this too and I’ve been doing this for a while. When you’re talking to people like me do you have like an expert there, that’s with technology because you get a lot of interesting things - I do things one way and someone might do it another, better way. DO you have any kind of user quick tips? You’re getting a lot of quick tips.

**Moderator**: I don’t think we’v been tracking that as closely as we probably should. Tiffany who is on the call is an a11y specialist on our team, and we have another team member who is blind. [shares tips observed from other participants]

[short conversation about sharing accessibility tips. Session wrap up]

Suggests that we have an “Accessibility tips” section for VA.gov that is only for screenreader users. 




