# Profile editing evaluation - P3
9/27/2022

[Moderator guides participant through signing in and getting to contact page]


**Moderator:** This is the page I wanted you to take a look at, and i'm gonna add an update the contact in information on this page. 
I'll have you skip mailing address but any other field on this page You can update and you don't need to use your bill information, but if it's easy for you you can we'll delete everything at the end. 

**Participant**: Okay. So you want me to update my mailing wait Say it again?

[moderator repeats]

[Participants starts scrolling down, clicks edit for home phone number. Gets “we’re sorry” error when attempting to save]


**Participant:** Hmm. Should I push, cancel, Update? 

**Moderator:** what would you do normally if this was actually your your page?

**Participant:** [reads] We're working to fix the problem. I would try to update it again. Perhaps to need spaces. [tries to edit again] Okay, to I don't know it doesn't give me option to spaces, so that's not . I would. I would just try again, though, extension I don't know this. Maybe 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, does 
[clicks again, and it doesn’t work]

**Moderator:** hmm okay, it's strange that it's not working. But let's go ahead and hit cancel. Well, continue editing. you can cancel again and try a different field and see if that works.

[participant scrolls down to email address and saves without issue]

**Moderator:** Okay, great, Okay, and then maybe try the the home address.

[participant clicks edit for home address, and checks box for “I live on a military base. Scrolls down]

**Participant:** OK. Let's see what else does it want here. [scrolls down through form, and hesitates on APO field]  Wait a minute what's this? [scrolls again] Okay, wait a minute so. i'm confused by so many lines, I guess, because, like i'm thinking of my real address, I would typically just need those 2 lines, and then, like the state and the Zip code so there are more lines here, perhaps that's military address requirements I don't know. It's more lines than I I expect here I don't know. 

[clicks update, and triggers “please confirm your address” alert]

**Participant:** Okay, yeah. right, cause I just added like some mock address. So it doesn't recognize that got it okay.

**Moderator:** okay so That's clear to you.

**Participant**: yeah

**Moderator:** Okay, you can go ahead and and proceed. 

[participant clicks “use this address”, and triggers the match mailing to home address modal” 

**Participant:**Okay, Yeah, whatever I put sure. [clicks yes, and gets a save error message in the modal]

**Moderator:**
And can you talk to me a bit about That last screen that you were on?

**Participant:**Yeah, it was asking me to confirm my the information I just input which is always great, like I'd like to see that just in case right? You can make an error error, even with your own data. So that was like a confirmation screen.

**Moderator:** Okay, you can go ahead and close this. Now i'm gonna have you go back to your home address. Go ahead and edit it. and now without hitting any of the buttons, click edit on that mailing address

[participant triggers “currently editing” modal]

How does this land with you? 

**Participant:** [reading] you're currently editing your home address? “Please go back and save or cancel your work before adding a new section of your profile. If you cancel your in progress work won't be saved.“ this is fine. It's like just kind of like a reminder notification of what you're about to do, and I actually see the error that I made in the address. I clicked on I lived on a army base, so I see that's why it was like more lines I see it now, because I just saw “I live in the United States” and but now I'm, seeing all of the “United States military base”. So that was my era, Okay, got it. So take a look at this form now, and see it does it.

**Moderator:**
How does this line up with your expectations when you normally update your address?

**Participant:**
Okay, let's see. [scrolls] So this street street all in it’s like one more line than i'm used to on this this third line here. seems like a lot city desktop. that's Yeah, that's typical Okay, all right?

**Moderator:** So overall what would difficult about making these updates to your contact information?

**Participant:** Nothing was pretty seamless, I mean of course, if I I input an accurate address it would a process that. So it's it shows to me that it's sensitive to, I guess like fraudulent information, or it inaccuracies that it picks up on that .

**Moderator:** How about the various kind of messages and alerts that you saw along the way?

**Participant:**I think they're good because again. sometimes, we could get distracted, and these are great reminders of like, Hey, you're about to go in this area to do this thing, and maybe I didn't mean to go there and it's like Oh, no, let me come out or go back or go back to the home screen. So I think the reminders are helpful 

**Moderator:**Okay, okay, that's that's good to know. Alright, i'm gonna have you go ahead and hit cancel out of this home address.

**Participant**:  [scrolling up and down] Oh, wait a minute. Where? Where? am I Oh, sorry cancel okay, that's okay.

**Moderator:** And then you can just go ahead and remove this. And how does this information read for you?

**Participant:** It’s letting you know what whatever steps you're about to take will have an impact on other things. So that was helpful, too. 

[participant removes all contact information]

**Moderator:** Okay. And now i'm gonna have you look at notification settings. If you could go and update that in this profile.

[participant navigates to notification settings, follows link to add mobile number]

**Participant:** So where do I go now?

**Moderator:** I had asked you to manage your settings for notifications. And it brought you here.

**Participants:** Oh, ok. So maybe let me update my email I guess? [clicks into email and adds that information]

**Moderator:** In the previous one where you updated your mobile number, that had been a link that said manage your text notifications. Did you had you noticed it?

**Participant:** I didn't 

**Moderator:** Okay that's that is that's really good to know if you go back up to a profile menu. Then you should be able to go see the notification settings. And now you can go ahead and just just make an update here. I'm curious how managing these settings works for you.

**Participant:**Okay, So update, Okay, I updated my mobile phone. [scrolling up and down on page] So it Auto populates :”notify me by text: or It gives you the options to change that which is fine. And I guess i'm looking for like some kind of submit. Because right? like where do I go from here to confirm that I've made these updates and changes and that this is what I want?

**Moderator:**
Oh okay. If you wanna go ahead and change it as if you wanted to say, don't notice me and let me get your thoughts on this

Participant: [clicks “don’t notify me] Okay, update saves. Okay, So I like that it says update saved when I make the change but since it auto populates notify me by text. I don't know I guess because it's automatically there it doesn't need to be a submit. I guess i'm i'm accustomed to have it like that next step, like a confirmation that I agree to this action.

**Moderator:**
 Yes, yes, I got it. That makes sense. Okay, are there any other things that do or don't align with your expectations about managing notification settings?

**Participant:**
No, I think this was fine. 


**Moderator:** Well, let's go ahead and remove that information that you added, if you click update mobile phone. Yeah, just remove that, especially since it's actually your phone number. 

**Participant:** [clicks remove] Yes, Okay, see how [the button] has “Yes, remove my information?” I think it should the cancel should be maybe “cancel and save”. Because I think the cancel could be interpreted as cancel what I just did, too, like it feels similar to remove.

**Moderator:** Okay, that's helpful

[moderator guides participant through logging out and getting to the prototype]

Okay, let's see. Okay, great So for this one the mailing address and the home phone number work. So if you could, just you know, imagine you wanted to make an update to this and go through that process.

**Participant:**
[clicks edit link for mailing address and then update button] Okay, Yeah, that was simple enough. 

**Moderator:** And then how about the home phone number?

Participant: [updates home phone number]

**Moderator:** Thinking about the differences that you notice between the website you were on and this prototype, can you tell me what you noticed? 

**Participant:** This prototype seems a little easier. Right? Like everything is like right here. and I feel like I If they were more steps to take in the other website where this [prototype] feels a a little more concise and easier to me.

**Moderator:** Okay, can you say a little more about Why, that might be? 

**Participant:** I Guess because it's like I don't know I don't know what it was about this experience that felt quicker than the last one. Maybe because it's I don't know further up on the screen. Okay, like I really didn't have to go anywhere like It was just right here.

**Moderator:** Did you notice that this prototype takes you to a new page for each update versus keeping you all on one page?

**Participant:** you know I didn't notice that. No, it just because it like it it happened so quickly. I didn't really notice that.

**Moderator:**
 Can you just generally talk to me about your overall experience editing contact information today?

**Participant:**
Yeah, I felt like it was user, friendly. It was simple. It was you know. clear instructions on where to go to edit where to update those edits how to remove those edits like sometime. It wasn't always clear how I could save the edit but then it tells you, after it's done, you know the the edit was saved, or save updated something like that. 

**Moderator:**and when you say sometimes it wasn't clear, are you thinking about the lack of the Button on the notification?

**Participant:**
Correct. Yeah. So i'm thinking like a lack of save or submit button, button for data press.

**Moderator**: Have you ever needed to update your contact info on VA.gov?

**Participant**: No

[session wraps up]
