# Profile editing evaluation - P4
9/27/2022

[moderator guides participant through signing in, screen sharing. Participant lands on contact information page]

Moderator:  15:46:40
So from here. I would like for you to update the contact information that you see here. Please skip the mailing section and scroll down the page and just go ahead and update contact information.

Moderator:  15:46:59
You don't have to use your real information if you don't want to. Please do what's easy for you 

Participant: 15:47:01
okay You want me to edit my address?

Moderator:  15:47:10
Yes, please edit the address. Yes, you can start with the address Just skip mailing, though, the next edit button,

Participant: 15:47:22
Then alright. [clicks edit for mailing address button, and immediately checks box next to “I live on a US military base…”]

Moderator:  15:47:32
Well, actually, i'll have you…ok you can go ahead and fill this out. But I'm gonna have you hit cancel instead of update it. Once you get to the bottom. Okay.

Participant: 15:47:49
Okay. [scrolls down] Street. Address.  [pauses] You hear me? 

**Moderator:** Yes, I can hear you. Yes, go ahead and complete this, like you normally would, for a mailing address.

[participant uses browser autofill function]


Moderator:  15:48:19
And don’t update. i'm gonna have you hit cancel for this one.

[participant hits cancel, triggers “are you sure” modal]

Moderator:  15:48:40
Okay, So now I can see this dialogue. here. Is this clear? you 

Participant:
yes, it's telling me I haven't finished.

Moderator:  15:48:52
Okay. And if if you wanted to cancel, what would you do from here?

Participant: 15:49:00
I would cancel that. 

Moderator:  15:48:52
Okay, go ahead and do that. 

[participant hits cancel button]

And then go ahead and continue down the page and edit additional fields.

Participant: [scrolls down page and added home number and work number]

Moderator:  15:50:33
Okay, And then i'm gonna have you go back up and update the home address. 

[participant tapped on edit for home phone number, hesitated, and then scrolled up and hit edit under home address. Triggered “currently editing” modal, and then got redirected to an access VA page.  Moderator guides participant back to staging]

Participant:
Okay, i'm back to contact info all right 

Moderator:
Now, if you can add a home address to this.

[participant clicks edit for mailing address]
And which address are you editing now? 

Participant:
not yet. okay Okay, i'm i'm putting my home address ,

Moderator:  15:54:43
And then when you get to the Zip code i'm gonna have you purposely put in an incorrect zip code. Okay, just change it, maybe by 2 digits and then hit update. And i'm curious to get your feedback on the dialogue that you see when you do that.

Participant: 15:55:07
[reading] We couldn't verify your address with the US postal servers, because there may be a problem with the unit number. Please edit your address to update the unit number. If your unit number is already correct, please continue with address below you entered. 

Moderator:  15:55:25
So what do you think about this? 


Participant:
It picked up that there is something wrong with the unit address. There   shouldn't be a f beside that 37, or 8 okay, And so what would you do from here?

Participant: 15:55:51
I will go back down and edit the address again. Okay, show me how you would do that.

Participant: 15:55:59
Okay.

[clicked edit for home address, triggering “you’re currently editing” modal

Participant: 15:56:10
[reads] Okay, Well, it won’t let me go back and save.  I got to go back and save our accounts to my work from editing.

Moderator:  15:56:23
Okay.

Participant: 15:56:29
I don't wanna use the address

Moderator:  15:56:50
You know what i'll have you i'll actually go ahead and stop you here if you can hit cancel.

Participant: 15:57:01
Okay.

Moderator:  15:57:02
Can you talk to me about the different addresses that are available for you to update on this page?

Participant: 15:57:13
There were several different addresses. 2 of them were wrong, so it it was letting me go back and edit my address.

Moderator:  15:57:22
Okay, And what is this telling you now [are you sure modal]?

Participant: 15:57:30
Reading: You haven't finished editing and saving the changes to your melon address. If you cancel now we won't save your changes
That’s telling me that If I don't save what I have then i'll the changes that I may want me saved. But that's what I wanted to do because the address was wrong.

Should I continue editing? 

Moderator:
you can do what you would normally do.

Participant: 15:58:09
Okay. [clicks continue editing]

Moderator:  15:58:25
Okay, until you're adding your address back here. 

Participant: right. 

Moderator: Okay, let me go ahead and have you scroll down and cancel out of here. Okay, and then hit cancel again when that when that dialogue appears and we won't save these changes. 

Okay, yeah and then hit cancel There you go.

Okay, Now talk to me about the different addresses that you have available for you here.

Participant: 15:58:51
There are 2 that was wrong, and there was one that was correct. 

Moderator: If you scroll down a little bit, do you notice that there are 2 edit buttons?

[participant scrolls past address section]

Moderator:  15:59:14
Actually, I'm sorry. can you go back up I just wanna focus on the address section.

[participant scrolls back up]

Yes, okay. So there are 2 edit buttons here. Can you tell me what they correspond to?

Participant: the top one is where they send my letters and my prescription to, and the home address down at the bottom? I guess that's where I currently live. So it would be the same as my mailing address but for somebody that has a PO Box or something, it would have to be different. So that's what why there could be 2.

Moderator:  16:00:04
Got it and then I do have a question I know, as part of the session when you, when we schedule this we had asked If you use any kind of like font resizing or magnification. Do you use any special tools on your phone or settings to read the screen?

Participant: 16:00:23
Yes,font resizing. 

Moderator: OK you have font resizing Okay, and is that that's a setting on your Samsung phone?

Participant: 16:00:31
Yes, 

Moderator: okay, Got it. Okay, thank you that's helpful to know. Now I’m gonna have you go ahead and remove the phone numbers that you saved.

Participant: 16:00:45
Okay [hit removed button] And now hit Yes, removed by information?

Moderator: Yes, please.

[participant removes all information and navigates to notification settings]

Participant: 16:01:53
[reads alert] We don’t Have your mobile number. 

Moderator: Now go. Yeah. go ahead and go and follow the kind of steps here to manage your notification settings.

Participant: 16:02:03
Okay, I would add a mobile number to my profile, and then I will edit the mobile number and put my phone number in there.

[enters phone number]

Participant: 16:03:04
Okay, “update saved, now you can manage text notifications” [clicks link]

Participant: 16:03:15
Okay, so we'll use contact information from your profile to send you notifications. [reads page, scrolls down]

[still reading] Applications, claims, Decision, reviews, notify me by text

[clicked notify me by text]

Moderator:
Okay, say, okay. now, how does this line up with your expectations of managing notification settings?

Participant: 16:03:52
It was pretty easy. I mean Once I updated my telephone number. It went right to that. I could receive notifications on applications claims, decisions, and appeals. So that that's that's a big help

Moderator:  16:04:10
Okay, So if you selected this, notify me by text, My understanding is that you would expect to receive updates about applications, claims, decision reviews, and appeals.

Participant: 16:04:26
Correct. 

Moderator:
Okay, was anything difficult about making this update? 

Participant: 
No, not at all.

Moderator:  16:04:37
Okay, thank you i'm gonna have you go ahead and remove your mobile number.

[guides participant through removal of information, logging out and navigating to prototype]

Moderator:  16:07:04
Because this is a prototype it's not gonna work the way you might expect 
You won't get able to save any of the changes that you make. But i'd like for you to go ahead and on this one edit the mailing address.

[clicks edit and updates address, and clicks update]

Participant: 16:08:06
Okay, and then you want me to add a home phone number?
[goes through updates]

Moderator:
What are some of the what are some of the differences you noticed?

Participant: 16:08:47
Well, it didn't save it because it's a prototype. so it's not connected to any kind of database to save 2 but i'm interested to know what differences you noticed between this and the website we were looking at previously. let's see it It change the number. I went to the to the information a whole lot quicker, and It gives you the opportunity to update your home phone number, your mobile and your work. I think on the other one. It didn't have that Hmm. Okay, I'm not..I can't remember i'm not sure.

Moderator:
OK are there any other differences that you noticed?

Participant: I don't really see any difference. 

Moderator: Did you know that this prototype takes you to a new page for each step, whereas on the website it was all on one page? 

Participant:
Oh, yeah, right. I did notice that.

Moderator:  16:10:31
Can you talk to me about how that impacted your experience?

Participant: 16:10:39
It was the whole lot easier than going to a different page for each edit.

Moderator:  16:10:57
So the other website was easier than this one. 

Participant:
Yes, 

Moderator:
okay. Can you say a little bit more about what makes that easier?

Participant: 16:11:12
Because you're actually it tells you I mean on the other one, once you did the update until Oh, it tells you your information.Whereas this one tells you this just updated. 

Moderator:
Oh, I see. Okay. So this one tells you like it keeps your like. this one just says your contact information has been updated at the top of the page the other one. It kept your updated information at the top of the page.

Participant: 16:11:55
Right. 

Moderator: Well, that's everything I wanted you to look at. Can you talk to me about your overall experience editing contact information during our session today?

Participant: 16:12:09
It was very helpful. I gave me a review of how to go in and update and and information and I also saw that in the other one, if you put in the wrong contact information and let you know that your profile couldn't be updated at this time. It picked up on errors. 

Moderator: Okay, Was there anything challenging about updating your contact information today?

Participant: 16:12:52
The only thing that was challenging was when I had to do the login.gov I was used to using my healthevet. So okay, i'll say that we will go into a different site. So yeah, that's the only challenge that I had today. Other than that everything was pretty smooth. 

Moderator:
Okay, And last question, When have you needed to update your contact info on VA.gov?

Participant: 16:13:25
When I moved I had a change of address. and I had to update my information. I have my phone the same phone forever. So I haven’t had to update my phone.

Moderator:  16:13:45
But change of address definitely Okay, got it that's really helpful to know.

Moderator:  16:13:53
That was everything I wanted to get your feedback on today. [session wraps up]

