# Profile editing evaluation - P6
9/28/2022

[moderator guides participant through sign in and screen sharing]

**Moderator:** Okay, great. So go ahead and update the contact information that you see here, and I notice you're zooming you zoomed in a little bit. Is it hard for you to see this font? 

**Participant**: it's not as easy, but some of the stuff is bigger, but some of the letter didn't come across it bigger.

**Moderator:**
Would you expect this to be bigger, based on that setting? 

**Participant:** Yeah, some of it is, though, like the website is, and the things that are in blue. And the contact information is just the smaller headings like under mailing and home.

**Moderator:** Okay, got it. Okay. we'll go ahead and update the contact information on this page.

Let's skip mailing address but you can do any of the other fields, and you don't need to use your real information.

But you can if that's easiest for you okay and we'll delete everything at the end.

[participant uses browser autofill and quickly completes form. Sync mailing and home address modal appears]

**Moderator**: And before you click on anything here. tell me what how what you understand about this message?

**Participant**: It updated my mailing address and address and is saying it didn't have that address on my on file for me before. So it’s making sure that this is what I want to do.

**Moderator**: Okay, so it is telling you that it updated your mailing address, and it didn't have that before.

**Moderator**: Okay, alright, go ahead and hit. No, just for the purposes of this. Okay?
And then you can continue and update any other fields that you'd like on this page.

[Participant scrolls down, easily updates home phone and work phone]

**Moderator**:
Okay, and i'm gonna go ahead and stop you here. Now, can you go up to the address that you entered i'm gonna have you edit it so that it's purposely incorrect to show you a message and see how that lands with you. so you could make the zip code incorrect.

[participant updates zip code and hits update button, triggers “confirm your address” with suggestion]

**Moderator**: Talk to me about what you see here

**Participant**: let's see it's telling me that it couldn't be found by the postal service there. With the address I put in.  If I did that, verify that I did it correctly. and if it isn’t go back and edit it.

**Moderator:** Okay, and how would you go back to edit it? 

**Participant:** Let's see. I think if I click update it should. 

**Moderator**: You think it should take you back to editing it?

**Participant:**
Yeah, I think so. 

**Moderator:** Okay, go ahead and try that

Okay, go ahead and hit no on this one again. 

**Participant:** Oh no, it didn't do it. 

**Moderator:** so is that what you expected?

**Participant:** no I don't think it was no cause it still has my old zip code. I thought it would have let me go back and edit it. 

**Moderator:** Okay. Now, if you can go ahead and go imagine you needed to update the home phone number that you entered.

And then Now go ahead and scroll down a little bit and hit edit on the work phone number. and i'm curious to get your feedback on this message that you see here.

[participant clicks and triggers “you’re currently editing…” modal]

What are your thoughts about that?

**Participant:** it's telling me that I clicked on the edit, button for my home number, and I either either go back and save it or account. Go back, save or cancel my work before editing a new section. Okay, So I need to go back and do what I was doing in the home, And before I can go to another section.

**Moderator**: Okay. So yeah, I just wanted to know if that makes sense to you. How does that All of this line up with what you would expect for editing contact Information in your profile?

**Participant**: this makes sense, this one [currently editing section modal] . This is how I normally went in there and edited stuff in the Va app. But I don't remember. Well, I never made a mistake with my zip code. I would have never seen that.

**Moderator**: Okay, got it. What was difficult If anything, about making these updates?

**Participant**: the most difficult was the words, like seeing.

 **Moderator**: Can you say more about that that difficulty?

**Participant:** With the the pop up, “you're currently adding a home phone number” That's good easy for me to see, because it's bigger and is bold. But the smaller grayer letters underneath a little less legible. And I can't zoom in on those in this pop up.

**Moderator**: Okay, Okay, that's a really good piece of feedback there. I didn't realize that zooming was disabled on these.

**Moderator**: Okay, all right. great. Well, i'm gonna go ahead and have you close out of this, and I will have you now go to the notification settings section of profile.

So if you click on that profile menu [participant clicks on main menu button] actually if you close out of this, and click the menu below that under the name Sam Cortez [participant clicks profile menu]

 Did you see that before? 

**Participant:**no, no I didn’t pay attention it.

[participant clicks notification settings from menu]

**Moderator:**Alright, Now go ahead and go through the process as if you were going to manage your notification settings for VA.

[participant clicks link in alert and adds a mobile number. Immediately starts scrolling]

**Participant**: You want me do the email address too? 

**Moderator**: No.

[participant continues to scroll up and down page]

**Moderator:** I notice that you're scrolling up and down, are you looking for something in particular?

**Participant**: To see if there was anything else and hit update besides the email.

The only thing left is just the mailing address address and you said we aren’t going to work with that.

**Moderator**: So at this point, do you feel like your notifications are turned on.

**Participant**: Yeah, I would. Because this is how they've notified me before.

**Moderator:** Okay. alright. If you scroll back down to the mobile section, did you notice this link that says “manage text notifications”?

**Participant**: No, I just looked for the update saved and the check.

**Moderator:** Okay, go ahead and click on that link there. And now just change this setting here, i'm curious how this works for you.

[participant clicks on “don’t notify me” for radio button]

**Moderator**: Is that what you expected? 

**Participant**: Yeah. And I saw when I went in here said notified me by text. So it auto populated the not, I mean, even without me choosing it. So that was good. So that was what that was good for me, 

**Moderator**: So you like to be kind of just opted in by default?

**Participant**: I do.****

**Moderator**: Okay, alright, anything difficult about making this update?

**Participant**: No, not really.

**Moderator**: And how does it line up with your expectations of managing a notification?

**Participant**: It's usually how things are set up I think those things are opt in unless you have to opt out.

**Moderator**: Okay, So most things are kind of like you're opted in already.

**Participant**:  yes.

**Moderator**: Okay, alright, that's really helpful. Let's go back and remove all the information that you added to the contact section.

[moderator guides participant removes contact information in each section, and signs out of prototype. Guides participant to prototype]

**Moderator**: Show me how you would edit your mailing address and your home phone number here.

[participant Zooms in and clicks edit]

**Moderator**: And did that zoom in automatically for you, or did you zoom in?

**Participant:** I zoomed in. This is small [zooms in again. Goes down page]. The letters on the screen under the dropdown, and when you type in or small.  But when I clicked on the state it was large, like my phone.

**Moderator:** Okay. This isn't actually gonna save so you don't need to update the street address or anything.

**Participant**: Okay.

**Moderator**: And I see you're kind of zooming in and out. Can you tell me about what what's going on?

**Participant**: Yeah. I zoomed in because it it had a black space at the bottom. I wanted to see how far it would allow me to, so that I have to see the whole screen, and as zoom back out to make sure that I could see the whole screen.

**Moderator**: And what would you do next to update this? 

Participant: press update button. [presses button]

**Moderator**: Okay, go ahead and do that, and then show me how you would edit your home phone number.

[participant saves home phone number. Moderator explains this is not connected to a database.

**Moderator**: What are some of the differences you notice between the this prototype and the website that we were on previously?

**Participant**: There are no blue headers [referring to buttons] on the website, and but these headers like the the address and phone number. They're still larger, and the bold writing under them for mailing address and home address and home and mobile those are good. The blue is good {edit links}, too, and brighter, just not as large.

**Moderator**: So the blue head is the the blue headings that are missing like the Are you talking about the buttons on the previous page?
