# Profile editing evaluation - P7
9/28/2022

[moderator guides participant through logging in and getting to contact information page]

**Moderator:** This is a test site. So as you do this you can enter real information or fake information will delete everything when we're done. like you to go ahead and update the contact information here except mailing address 

**Participant**: Okay. [scrolls down page, clicks edit button on home address] What is mailing address?

**Moderator**: You can skip mailing address

**Participant**: [scrolls down and clicks edit button for work phone number. Triggers “currently editing” modal” Tries again]

 Okay, they keep saying, Oh, well, huh! you're currently editing your home address [reads content in alert].

So is it not allowing me? unless I put something?  Let's see [clicks cancel in home address section].

Okay. [begins go edit home phone number. Saves and moves onto work phone number]

**Moderator**: Oh, that was interesting! [participant continues with editing in mobile number]. And for this one i'm gonna actually have you having a cancel and not save that one. [participant clicks cancel and triggers “are you sure” modal] And talk to me about this.  Does this make sense to you?

**Participant**: Yes, but if i'm offering feedback I don't think extension for the home phone number or the mobile,  makes sense. I mean, I guess maybe it could be for home depending on if you're in a facility. Or something. Maybe so. I guess it could be for home, because you never know with the population, I guess. But for mobile number. I don't know why there will be a need for an extension.

**Moderator**: Okay, that makes sense. Okay, And then can you go up to the home address and go ahead and put an address in there.

Participant: [clicks edit on home address] So I guess one thing that I would say before I even put in here is, I feel like there should be something available to ask, “is your home and mailing address the same?” so that you don't have to go back in and enter the home address.

**Moderator**: Okay, got it and that's good feedback.

**Participant**: [enters home address and triggers please confirm address modal. Quickly closes it and triggers “we’ve updated your home address” modal]

**Moderator**: Does that make sense to you?

**Participant**: *hesitates*. yes, okay. 

**Moderator**: And what do you think about this [“updated home address” modal]?

**Participant**: Again. I just think with this it could maybe say your mailing address, is it the same as your home address? Do you want to leave them the same?  or something along those lines. If you had checked that box. But if you do go in and put a different home address, I think it should list your home address and your mailing address and confirm that you want them different than what was entered.

**Moderator**: Okay, I follow you. Go ahead and click cancel here. What was challenging about that process of updating information?

**Participant**: I don't think it was challenging, but like I said I just think it's unnecessary, If they're the same. Again, stuff like that kind of irks me. So if there's an option, let's not be redundant, if if we don't need to.

**Moderator**: How does this align with your expectations of updating contact information? Other than that lack of that box to kind of sync up the mailing and home address.

**Participant**: [scrolling up and down] Maybe also. So this is like I went in, and I want to update. Maybe it can just ask if you want to.  Maybe it can just ask if you want to update it. Because maybe I don't need to update my contact information. Maybe it's the same. Or did I automatically say, I want to update my contact information?

[Moderator explains that contact information isn’t automatically updated.] 

**Moderator**: Okay. So now i'm gonna have you check out the notification settings part of profile. So now go through this as if you wanted to update your notification settings.

**Participant**: So if I want to enter like my cell phone number ?

**Moderator**: Is that what you understand? The first step to be? 

**Participant**: Yes. [clicks link and adds mobile number. Hesitates]

**Moderator**: What would you do from here?

**Participant**: [reads content in alert and clicks link in save confirmation] Now I would go to see [scrolls up] if I’ll be receiving text messages regarding applications, claims, decision reviews and appeals, and I think I would probably click notify me by text. [clicks] Ok it’s updated and that’s it.

**Moderator**: How does that align with your expectations of setting up a notification? 

**Participant**: Oh, I think it's good I guess I would want it to say I understand that it says update saved. Maybe it could say “Now you will receive notifications via text”, you know.

**Moderator:** For this one that you just set up - what kind of notification will you get? 

**Participant:** I would think applications what's my, let's say my application has been submitted. For claims, I would imagine that I would receive a text message, saying, You have submitted your claim for disability, compensation. Maybe I would also receive a text message. when a compensation and pension appointment has been scheduled, when it moves from one phase to the next. Maybe if now it is being moved to a reviewer to decide, I would think that maybe I would receive a text message about that And what final decision has been made.

**Moderator:** Okay, Do you see the text there that says Board of Veterans appeals hearing reminder? 

**Participant:** Yes, I do see that. 

**Moderator:** Did you see it before? 

**Participant:** No.

**Moderator**: So now, that do you still feel like you would get all those other notifications that you described?

**Participant**: No. 

**Moderator**: Okay, Well, that's certainly. an area that we can improve to to make that more clear.

**Participant**: Why is that There, I think that's so random. 

**Moderator**: why do you think? before I answer.

**Participant**: looking at it board of veterans appeals, hearing reminder. Now it almost makes me think that's the only time I would get it reminder or notification via text message. 

**Moderator:** Yes, that's right so this this setting is specifically for that reminder.

**Participant:** Oh, well, then, that applications, claims, decision reviews and appeals needs to be changed.

**Moderator**: Yeah. it's it's misleading the name of that is been named in anticipation for more notifications to be added in the future that would all live under the section, but for now that's the only one that we have here.

**Participant:** Yeah, I would take that away. The current sub heading input Board of Veterans appeals hearing reminder.

**Moderator:** Yes, Okay, That's really good feedback thank you Okay, now, I'm gonna have you click on that update mobile phone link.
And i'm gonna have you remove all the information that you added, just to kind of wipe the sleep clean and make sure we don't save anything that it doesn't you entered anything with your contact info. What do You think about the alert you’re seeing every time you hit remove?

**Participant**:  I think that's a good idea just in case you know, someone clicks in an error, then they get a second chance to to confirm that that's actually what they want to do in the event that it was a mistake.

[guides participant to log out and to prototype]

**Moderator**: [on prototype] Can you show me how you would edit your mailing address and home phone number here?

**Participant**: I would just click edit and enter information accordingly. Okay, do you want me to do it?

**Moderator**:  You can just change one thing to test it out. It’s not going to save since it’s a prototype.

[participant enters information and clicks update]

**Moderator**: then the home phone number is set up to check that out too, if you wouldn't mind just taking a look there. Just change like one number again. it's not going to save it, but it gives you an idea of the feel of how this would work.

[participant enters information and clicks update]


**Moderator**: What are some of the differences you notice between the prototype and the website that you were on previously?

**Participant**: With the prototype. So you want me to tell you the differences. So it didn't ask to confirm or show like well, this is what you changed it to like it did on the website. The confirmation of the change overt on the prototype versus the website.

**Moderator**: you're referring to that green Box at the top?

**Participant**: Yes, yes I think that was it, I mean otherwise. It was, you know, pretty straightforward as far as changing it.

**Moderator**: Do you still feel like with this green banner up at the top of the page versus like at the top of the button does that change anything for you 

**Participant**: no it doesn't 

**Moderator**: Okay. Did you notice that the prototype takes you to a new page for each step, whereas on the website it was all on the same page? 

**Participant**: Oh, no I didn't pay that any attention.

**Moderator**: Alright, that's helpful to note that that was not noticeable for you. Okay. Well, that's everything I wanted to have you take a look at today. Can you talk to me about your overall experience editing contact information today?

**Participant**: Yes, okay. I mean they were all pretty straightforward. It was, you know, run of the mill change your your contact information. pretty much i've seen online in general. I didn't necessarily feel like one was any you know much more difficult than the other like I said other than the feedback on website where if the I understand though I went there to change the information. So I guess in that instance it would not be necessarily a need for the mail to say that the mailing and the home address are the same. But then, in that case, I would imagine that there would be a question about if I need to also change the mailing address. 

**Moderator**: So, you would expect if you had the mailing address entered, and the home address entered, and then you change the home address that it would ask you if you want to change your mailing address too right?

**Participant**: yes

**Moderator**: Okay, Okay, great. Well, that I mean that's all really good feedback. You're definitely identified. some helpful things that we can improve for this process.

[moves into session wrap up]
