# Profile editing evaluation - P8
9/28/2022

**Moderator:** Alright. So here we are, and i'd like for you to go ahead and update the contact information. You see here. You can start with any field except mailing address let's skip that one for now, he said, update the cut.

[participant starts scrolling down the page] 

**Moderator:** Yeah any of the contact information feels that you see here except mailing address, and you don't have to your real information or whatever's easier for you.We'll delete everything at the end yeah that's fine no problem.

**Participant:** I’ll put my old home.

[enters street address line one ands tarts scrolling up and down page. Does not use autofill. Presses Update and triggers the  update mailing address to home address modal.]

Hit update. Yeah, I just did, you know whatever you would normally do if this was your file and you were setting things up.

**Participant:** Okay, So [reading] we don't have a mailing just on file for you. Do you want to update your mailing address to match this home address. that's fine. *Presses yes*

**Moderator:**  I'm. Curious. What is your impression of this and that information you read, and what has happened?

**Participant**: That was very easy to just update information. Very easy, very seamless. 

**Moderator:** Okay, alright, go ahead and continue on the page and add just a couple more pieces of information.

[participant scrolls down page and adds phone number, and then email address. 

**Participant**: Everything is easy to find update. so that's very good okay, 

**Moderator:** And now go ahead and hit edit for this, and lets change it to con. And press cancel

[participant does so and triggers the Are you sure? modal]

**Participant**: Okay, that makes sense. Yeah, makes sense almost like a yeah, Yeah, that makes sense.

**Moderator**: Okay, What would you hit? Yeah, if you hit cancel, What do you expect to happen?

**Participant:** I expected to build blank again new editing. I expected to just go back to the same screen that I was typing on, but with the same information already in there.

**Moderator:** Ok, and now I’ll have you go up to the home address field, you can edit.  Just change the last digit of the Zip code to like something that you know is not correct.

[participant does so and hits update]

**Participant:** [reading] Couldn’t confirm the address… okay, okay, that's good to have the suggested address. That's also very good. 

**Moderator:** Okay, and tell me more about what what's good about this.

**Participant:** So in case I missed the digit, or in case I mistype. And so also, if I didn't really know, exactly you know the correct address, I should say, like if it was wrong like in you know, like, automatically, if I were to enter into my device settings and it was the enter into this and it was wrong like you saw my previous addresses for the first time, So that would be good to be like a catch. 

**Moderator:** That makes sense. what do you expect to happen if you wanted to edit this? How would you edit it from here if you realized it was wrong?

**Participant**: I see that the edit address button is right there [under suggested address]. But I also see like a here in this [mouses over alert] yeah, right in here right here.

**Moderator:** And if you clicked it, what are you, what will happen if you could have that?

**Participant:** Yeah. So what I expect to happen is It goes back to the same address I was working on with the information there that's what I'm doing is gonna happen. Do you want me to click it?

**Moderator:** Yeah, go ahead and click it.

**Participant:** alright. good. Okay.  [participant is returned to edit mode] That's what I thought would happen.

**Moderator**: And now imagine you needed to edit your home phone number.

[participant scrolls down to home phone and clicks edit. Triggers the “currently editing” modal]. 

**Participant:** So i'm gonna edit here. so [reads alert content and clicks ok. Scrolls back up to home address section]

So I gotta update this first. so I definitely, so that's cool. I wish I would say, save instead of update. I don't know why, just thinking save would be a little bit better. That’s just my personal opinion thought.

**Moderator**: when you say you save instead of update, are you talking about the the buttons at the bottom of the form?

**Participant:** Yes,  right there.

**Moderator**: now i'm gonna have you remove the mobile phone number. Actually, all the information that you've entered.

[participant removes content from each section. Initially triggered the “currently editing” modal]

**Participant:** [reading “are you sure” modal for removal”… remove the contact email addressed across these unit the benefits. [reading] Okay. Okay, Well, that's good that it does them all at the same time. Is that is that what we're going for here? Just to have all this connected with one update? That’s pretty smart.

[moderator explains that the current site is actually like this]

**Moderator**: Great. So now i'm gonna have you go to the notification settings part of the profile.

**Participant:** Alright. then notification settings. [scrolls up and down. Clicks button for main menu] Hmmm. [clicks Sam menu repeatedly. Moderator has to guide participant to profile menu]

Ooooh! Gotcha. There. OK.

**Moderator:** Did you notice the profile menu under the Sam Cortez name?

**Participant**: No, I didn't see it I did not see it.

[moderator asks participant to go through the process of managing notifications]

**Participant**: Okay, It says right here the phone number here. So I have to add a phone number first.

[clicks link to add mobile number, easily adds number]

**Participant**: that's good that it's a button right there to go back to where I was at. [clicks manage text notifications link]

**Participant**: [back on notification pages] So this right here is, don't notify me. [clicks don’t notify me] this says update saved.

**Moderator**: tell me what is the kind - what are you telling them not to notify you about?

**Participant**: What I can what I can see is that [hesitates] this is about any s any correspondence about anything having to do with VA as far as any of those following applications, financial decisions, reviews, and the pills. So all corresponds about that then I I believe. But then there's this board of veterans of affairs hearing reminder thing that i'm like, wait. “What's that about?” 

**Moderator:** Okay. So that's not clear to you? 

**Participant**:, not not not not for me right now, 

**Moderator**: Okay, as far as the way that you adjusted the setting talk to me about how that lines up with what you expect for turning things on and off.

**Participant**: Oh, yeah. So that was that was easy. That worked out. I like I like how it automatically does do the update without having a button on there.

**Moderator**: Can you say more about why?

**Participant**: Less to click. In today's day and age that's one I think people care about. At least I do.

[scrolling around page]
So i'm just looking around here to see… I do like how it's setup here. Everything is very cut and dry as far as I can see.

**Moderator:** Okay, Great. Well, i'm gonna have you go up there go back to update your mobile phone number and just remove that phone number again, please.

**Participant**: Sure thing

[participant removes contact information]

**Participant:** I’m glad you get the notification that you're gonna that you're gonna be signing out of everything.  I wasn't aware that it signed you out of everything. So i'm glad you list that.

**Moderator:** Oh, like when you remove your info? 

**Participant:** Yes.

**Moderator:** okay good that's good to know. Yeah, we've that's something that I feel like best to remind people about every time they do something like that. Cause those the ramifications from removing your contact info could be pretty serious if you have disability benefits or something else. 

[moderator guides participant to prototype]

**Moderator:** Go ahead and show me how you would edit your mailing address and home phone number here. It's not gonna reflect any of the changes that you make like back on the screen. But i'm just curious to see you kind of go through the flow of updating that information.

**Participant**: Now, you said home interest or mailing? 

[moderator clarifies task]

**Participant**: [scrolls down prototype and clicks edit[] So if I go here to edit  my address, it makes perfect sense. 

[hits save, surprised that edit isn’t reflected, moderator explains there is no data base since it’s a prototype]

**Participant:** Yeah, that's easy easy enough. {scrolls up and down on page] We’re good.

**Moderator**: What do you notice It's different from between this and the site we were on?

**Participant**: It doesn’t give you the notifications about what’s changing or what’s going to be changing. Obviously since you said it was a prototype, it doesn’t show you what was saved. It doesn't seem as - it seems a little drier to me then the one I was looking at before. You know everything's easy to see. 

**Moderator**: can you elaborate on what you mean by dryer?

**Participant**: Yeah, of course. it's just the layout the layout of it. It doesn’t  appeal to me. I guess maybe just cause the color. This seems like because it's drier because it's just very plain.

**Moderator**: Did you notice that confirmation message at the top?

**Participant**: Okay, so I did not at first. 

**Moderator**: Did you notice that this takes you to a new page for each step, whereas on the website it kept you on the same page the whole time?

**Participant**: I did not even notice that either. Wow! i'd much rather be on the same site.

**Moderator**: Oh, can you say more about why? 

**Participant**: yeah, cause it's just something about having to switch pages in the middle. Things could be going on in the background, and my bandwidth could be being used up a lot.  I know it's not that much of a difference, because it's a very plain background, and very easy to load and everything like that. But it's just the [inaudible] that yeah i'd rather stay on one screen. It just feels more cohesive when everything's on one screen. 

**Moderator**: Okay, thank you for that feedback. that's super helpful that's a good point bandwidth. That's everything I wanted to have you look at today. Can you just talk to me about your overall experience editing contact information during our session?

**Participant**: So on the VA website, it was very, very easy to do. Very simple, very seamless. everything is cut and try, and in your face. I do like that. I’m definitely huge fan of that for sure. I don't have any other comments. I suppose…definitely I’m a fan of the layout, the layout of it looks really, it’s a really good layout.

**Moderator**:  The layout of the [VA site]?

**Participant**: Yes.

[moderator moves to closing remarks and ends session]
