# Profile editing evaluation - P9

9/28/2022

[moderator guides participant through screen sharing and logging into staging.va.gov]


**Moderator**: could you go ahead and show me how you would update the contact information? We won't update the mailing address so you can start with home, and then just keep updating and kind of show me how you would add in information. And you can use your own information that's completely fine we'll remove it. But you can also make something up it, either way is is the same for us. So, whatever you prefer

**Participant**: Alright. [match home

**Moderator**:  i'm gonna stop you for a second here, and just ask about what you're seeing here, and kind of your thoughts on it as you continue.

[participant remains silent and clicks “yes”]

 **Moderator**: what did you select There i'm sorry I can't always tell because it's on mobile.

**Participant**: Oh, we updated your mailing address. I don’t know what it says.

**Moderator**: Okay, Okay, I see and talk to me about what you just did then. And what happened there? 

**Participant**: I just put my address, my new address in there. I saw it updated it.

**Moderator**: What do you think the pop up was for that appeared after you updated your information?

**Participant**: I don’t know. I don’t remember what popped up.

**Moderator**: Okay, Is anything unclear about about this?

**Participant**: So far. No. 

**Moderator**: And how does this align with your expectations? Normally when you update information we like when you go anywhere and need to change your address or change your phone number. Is this similar or different to what you would normally expect to see that's 

**Participant**: similar

**Moderator**: Okay, Okay, So that sounds good. Well, you can go ahead and go down and just keep updating some of this information.

[participant clicks edit button for home]

Actually I'm gonna ask you to do something right now to see what happens. So now that you have this open, could you scroll down and try and edit your work?

[Triggers “currently editing” alert]

So tell me about this that you're seeing there when you try and do that.

**Participant**: It's not workin.
 
**Moderator**: Why? is that Why, does it seem like it's not working? 

**Participant**: because it's not letting me there's no place to put in my anything, any new thing

**Moderator**: Okay. So if you wanted to update your work, your work number, then what would you do next?

[participant scrolls up and down page. Triggers alert again and closes it]

**Participant**: I wouldn't do it.

**Moderator**: you wouldn't do it?

**Participant**: no place to do it.

[participant scrolls up and down page. Triggers alert again and closes it]

**Moderator**: So did you notice the there's kind of like red towards the top of the page?

**Participant**:  Yeah

**Moderator**: And tell me about that. What is that? What does that say? or what does that kind of mean to you?

**Participant**: Enter your home phone Number.  required. 

**Moderator**: Okay, So if you if you see this here, then what would be your next step like if I wasn't here?

**Participant**: I put my home phone number in there. 

**Moderator**: Okay, you can go ahead and do that.

[participant adds phone number.

**Moderator**: Okay, And what about that? Was there anything that was unclear?

**Participant**: No. 

**Moderator**: Okay. Okay, i'll have you try something else Then so. let's try again with the work number

**Participant**: Now it has a Now I can do it, though. 

**Moderator**: Yeah, Why is that?

**Participant**: I don’t know. [pauses] I don't have a work phone number though.

**Moderator**: that's Okay, we can make one up. I don't either. before. you finish. that actually i'm gonna have you, Now that you've entered some some numbers click cancel or hit cancel.

[triggers are you sure modal]

**Moderator**: Can you tell me about this

**Participant**: Yeah, they they just won't save my number if I Cancel.

**Moderator**: Okay, Is there anything unclear about this? Okay, you can go ahead and make a selection.

[closes out of alert]

**Moderator**: okay i'll have you try something else that's kind of specific.Go up to your home address And then if you can edit that, and I think you to just change something just a little bit like maybe change the street number or change the Zip code, Yeah. and then update that And now, as as you know through this i'd like if you could kind of walk me through what this seems like to you and then, and what you do

[Participant asks for clarification]

**Moderator**: Just tell me about what you're seeing here now. 

**Participant**: my address. I updated it, address it, says [clicked use this address and triggered sync mailing and home address alert]

**Moderator**: Before you go forward again. So I saw that you said use this address. Was there anything that was confusing about that? 

**Participant**: Not really. 

**Moderator**: What do you think that was for the the information you just saw before, when you had to select? Use this Address.

**Participant**: Just for there. 

**Moderator**: Sorry I didn't catch that do you mind repeating.

**Participant**: it'd be for their whatever, be for their information.

**Moderator**: Okay. Okay. You can move forward. I'm gonna have you try the address thing one more time you don't mind.

[participant updates home address again, mistypes zip code and struggles with inline error messaging. Seems like he is unsure how to proceed]

**Moderator**: before you do anything else Now, can you can talk to me about what you see here [address validation screen]

**Participant**: Yeah. Yeah. [clicks entered address option, and yes button]

**Moderator**: So why did you choose that? 

**Participant**: because it's my it's it's the correct address.

Moderator: Okay, cause was the other one not correct? 

Yeah, just to Zip: 

Moderator: Okay. And so it was showing you a couple different addresses. Is that right? 

Participant: Yeah. 

Moderator: Okay. Why do you think it was showing you those different addresses

Participant: For me to pick the correct one, that’s what they have on file.

Moderator: Okay. And was there anything confusing or unclear about that?

**Participant**: no

**Moderator**: Okay, So now I will have you actually remove the information that you're able to remove here. so you can't remove mailing address. We can remove that separately for you. But if you could start with home [participant clicks remove button and quickly dismisses alert]. Okay, next time i'm gonna ask you to linger on the thing that shows up for a second.

[participant hits remove button on the next element and clicks “yes remove my information”]

**Moderator**: Yeah, right here. Can you tell me about this?

**Participant**: Yeah, it remove your home phone across these benefits.

**Moderator**: Okay, and did you? So when you saw that before, did you read that information?

**Participant**:  Yeah. 

[guides participant to notification settings]

Moderator: Okay, So now, i'd like you to imagine you want to set up notifications, and show me what you would do if you came to this page And saw this here, what would be your next steps?

Participant: Well, I would add my mobile number. 

Moderator: Okay, you can go ahead and do that.

[clicks link to add mobile number. Gets interrupted by someone in the room. Scrolls up and down page] I forgot what I was doing. Was I supposed to? Ok, let me try again 

[goes back to notification settings page. Clicks link back to contact page and scrolls up and down.]

I can’t remember what it says. I forget what I’m supposed to do.

[clicks main menu, then personalized menu, then profile trying to find notification settings. Lands back on notification settings page. Clicks link back to contact information]

[participant clicks edit and enters mobile phone number]

**Participant**: alright.

**Moderator**: And what would you do next after that?

**Participant**: click edit. [participant clicks edit and pauses on edit screen]

**Moderator**: What about now? What would be your next steps?

**Participant**: Just hit update.

**Moderator**: Okay. interesting. Did you notice that after you updated mobile your mobile number number before? You remember when it had kind of a green alert there?

**Participant**: Not really. 

**Moderator**: Okay. Okay. let's try something again. if you could remove your mobile number, and then let's add your mobile number again, and I wanna stop and ask you about something once you do. Okay, So before you do anything else, did you notice the link here that says, manage text notifications previously?

**Participant**: No

**Moderator**: Okay, Yeah, it's just it actually was here for just a little bit. And then it went away. So that's really good to know Got it disappeared, and that you didn't see it. So can you click on that the manage text notifications.


**Participant**: I don't know where it's at.

**Moderator**: If you scroll back down to down [participant refreshes page]

**Moderator**: Oh, that's okay, it went away again. So it's one of those things that's only there for like a little bit, and then it disappears that's fine. So there was. There was something after you updated your your phone number that said success, and then manage notifications. If you, if you would have clicked on the link that said, manage notifications. Where do you think it would take you.

**Participant**: I don't know

[guides participant back to notification settings page]

00:36:39.000 --> 00:36:56.000
Can you show me how you would change your notifications?

[participant clicks radio button]

Moderator:Okay, Can you tell me about what you just did? 

**Participant**: Yeah, change it from not notify me to notify me.

**Moderator**: Okay, and was, whatever happened, what you expected to happen or different?

**Participant**: No, it was what I expected to happen.

**Moderator**: Okay, is there anything challenging or unclear about this?

**Participant**: No

**Moderator**: Okay, So now that you change this to say, notify me by text, what what do you think that you would get information about?

**Participant**: What the decisions and stuff are that the VAs made about my appeals and stuff, and claims. 

**Moderator**: Okay, Is there anything unclear about that? Alright: Okay.

[Moderator does time check and guides participant to prototype, explains it won’t work as expected]

**Moderator**: can you show me how you would edit your mailing address

[participant clicks edit button for home address]

**Moderator**: actually this one is different in that home address doesn't work. So we have to go with mailing

[participant clicks update and triggers address validation]

**Moderator**: Okay, Can you tell me about what just happened?

**Participant**: Yeah, they can't verify it my I I edited the address. They can't post office can't verify it. [clicks cancel]

**Moderator**: Okay, so what would you do now, or what did you do?

[participant clicked cancel]

**Moderator**: Let's try that again, and then we can see what you would would do In that case.

[participant enters edit mode in prototype, clicks update and goes to address validation]

**Moderator**: So now, what would you do here?

**Participant**: This tab and update/

**Moderator**: Okay, Was anything unclear about that?

Participant: no

**Moderator**: Okay, and then you can scroll down and update your home phone number

[participant does so without problem]

**Moderator**: And what about that? Was there anything, unclear?

**Participant**: No.

**Moderator**: So what are your thoughts on on this approach and this it's different prototype

**Participant**: That's kind of easy

**Moderator**: Can you say more about what makes it easy?

**Participant**: It’s simple, you know it's like you don't have a lot of options.

**Moderator**: Okay? And when you say options, what are you referring to like different?

**Participant**: Different ways that you can go with it. You know

**Moderator**: Okay, And what? So when you say different ways, you could go. Do you mean like what you see on the screen, or things that happen>

**Participant**: It’s not making youDecide. it's like either a or b type thing, not even that it's just nothing. Just change your phone number. 

**Moderator**: Okay, Okay, I see and did you notice that you were actually going to a different page when you were editing.

**Participant**: no, I wasn't thinking about it 

**Moderator**: Okay, that's good to know, and was there anything I mean it sounds like you said it was pretty easy, but anything at all that Was challenging about this. 

**Participant**: Not really. okay. 

**Moderator**: So I mentioned that this this one you actually were going to a different page to edit  And the earlier website we tried was not. Do you have a preference? or what do you think about the difference between those 2

**Participant**: I don't know. What did you say? 

**Moderator**: Oh, yeah no, no problem, I can repeat. So this one that you did that you tried here this prototype. And in comparison to the website that we tried before, What  do you think about the difference between the 2? or did you notice any differences?

**Participant**: Oh, well, I just said to change it and I changed it I wasn't even thinking about it.

**Moderator**: Would you say that this one was easier or harder? Did you like it better, or did you like the other one better? Just if there's anything in comparison

**Participant**: I didn't like any better. but it's just easier you know just simpler the options just one thing to do.

**Moderator**: Okay, that makes sense. alright. Well, that's all I had for you to try today.

[session wrap up]
