# Sprint 13
| Assigned to | Item | Story Points | Notes| Retro|
| --- | --- | :---: | --- | --- |
| Justin | Facility Locator integration within form |5| Research started | Will adjust plan based on API timelines |
| Justin | Add labels to dropdowns |3| (1/21) In Progress | In Review |
| Justin | Code custom intro page |5|(1/16) In Progress (1/21) Done| In Review | 
| Justin | Code custom outro page |5| (1/17) Will start| In PR |
| Jonathan | Moderate Usability Sessions ! |5| (1/16) Starting tomorrow |Done |
| Patrick and Jonathan | Make changes based off of Content and IA review |5| (1/16) Notes sent to Design, (1/16) Content Revisions (Back to official language)| - | In progress - will be added together with research findings |
| Patrick and Jonathan | Take notes on and attend usability studies, create transcript based off of usability studies|5 per session| (1/16) In progress, (1/21) It continues | Done :tada: |
| Team | Debrief sessions post Usability Sessions  |0| (1/16) In Progress | Done :tada:|
| PMs | Schedule Privacy and Security review (with Andrew Gunsch) |1| (1/16 - Waiting to identify more folks) | Had one meetings, still working to identity more folks |
| Kevin | Finish form submission endpoint (and associated tests) in the API |5| (1/16 - In progress, data validation and form saving, (1/21) - Almost done, waiting on finalized schema | In Review | 
| Kevin | Form Schema changes + tests| 5| added in | In Review |
| Kevin | Add email to form schema | 3 | added in | In Review |
| Kevin | Roadmap and Sprint Planning for CARMA Integration |3| Moving to Sprint 14 |

---
### Open questions (1/16):
---
- Should we use the official language?
- Identifying ISO and security concerns
- ToT: Legalese content, security concerns, program buy-in

### Open questions (1/16):
---
- Emails to va.gov team members not going through
- Can we expedite getting va.gov emails for Kevin, Justin


 - 18 - 28: Kevin PTO
