# Off-Site Search Product Outline - VA.gov (WIP)

## Communications
- GitHub Label: search
- Slack channel: [#va-search](https://dsva.slack.com/channels/va-search)
- Product POCs: 
   - John Hashimoto, DSVA @johnhashva 
   - Steph Orkand, VSA/GCIO @stephorkandatx 
- User Research/User Experience
   - Liz Lantz, VSA/AdHoc @andaleliz 
- Engineering POCs:
   - Nick Sullivan, VSA/AdHoc @Nick Sullivan

## North Star
Providing an **authoritative, optimized external presence on leading search engines (e.g. Google, Bing) and other discovery engines (e.g,. Google Maps, Alexa)** for Veterans fully aligns with our North Star goals of:
- Increase the use of self-service tools, focusing on services most important to Veterans.
- Decrease the time users spend waiting for an outcome.
- Consistently deliver a satisfying, reliable, and secure online experience.

## User Problem Statement
- As a Veteran, **I want to find** the information I need from Veterans Affairs as quickly and easily as possible using search engines and other popular "answer engines" such as Google Maps.

### User Goals
- As I veteran, I want to easily and quickly find the link to the information I need with few clicks as possible using a search engine.

### Business Goals
- As a Veterans Affairs business stakeholder, I want to ensure veterans are provided links/paths to the most authoritative and up-to-date information available on the VA.gov Website.

### Product Goals
- Conduct a fresh assessment of VA.gov's site for SEO authority/ranking -- with a focus on the [Drupal auto-generated site map and meta-data structure. ](https://gbyte.co/blog/drupal8-seo-simple_sitemap-vs-xmlsitemap-differences) 
- Work with engineering teams to determine if improvements can be made to site quality (e.g. broken links, etc.) and [site speed](https://developers.google.com/speed/pagespeed/insights/), as part of renewed optimization efforts.
- Work with the content team to ensure we are content aligns with the search intent of our target audience of veterans and other key user groups -- and we are leveraging internal linking to improve search ranking.
- Implement [search engine developer tools ](https://app.zenhub.com/workspaces/vsp-5cedc9cce6e3335dc5a49fc4/issues/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/9333)-- including Google Search Console and Bing Web Developer Tools -- more proactively measure and manage our external search performance.

## Assumptions

- The organic search authority and ranking (as measured by SEMRush) of VA.gov is not as strong as could be to ensure the site is the single source of truth for veterans.  
- The VA.gov xml site map -- auto-generated by Drupal -- does not produce an optimized site index for improved search engine ranking 

## Hypothesis or Bet
**If** _we take cumulative steps to improve our search optimization_ **then** _we expect VA.gov search engine referrals to materially increase_.

## OKR
- Higher average CTRs for VA.gov top keywords
- Increase in organic Search Engine referral traffic


