**Conversation Guide: VSA Caregiver, Usability research of shortened form based on disability rating for the 10-10EZ, September 2021**

*Start recording to the Cloud.*

* **I have started recording. I'd like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record my screen and audio as we talk today?" Yes**

Ok. Now we're really ready to begin!

**Warm-up Questions - 5 minutes**

**For Veterans:**

* Do you currently have health care benefits through the VA or through another provider? All of my healthcare is from the VA, I sue the Charleston facility and its clinics.

* How long: my first experience was in Durham, that was in 2004-2005. We moved to SC and I switched to Charleston va.  

* Anything prompt healthcare: I was leaving my old job and needed coverage. I had heard about the agent orange protection the va was studying so I chose va.

* Have you ever filled out the VA Health Care application either partially or fully?  I was living in a rural area and didn’t have much assistance from third party vendors, so I did it on my own. It was a hassle initially. I never really was given a list of things or forms, documents that were needed so I would send something in they needed and then they would ask for something else. We went back and forth.

* How was it back and forth: the old fashion postal service.

**Health Care application introduction page - 5 minutes**

* Please read the entire page and let me know if any questions come to mind: okay well first it begins with the general purpose and the range of services. It is self-explanatory I think. This is covering everything I mentioned to you, I found out about one at a time, tis nice to have it grouped together so you know what is required.

* After participant reads and initial questions are noted:

    * What do you think of the listed requirements?

    * Is there anything that you would not have on-hand or would need to prepare before starting this application? No not really, I don’t see anything. It looks self-explanatory

    * How would you apply: I would just start by signing in to start the application.

    * Login with va you normally use: I generally use the standard va. I have the other qualified ones but I just use the general va because at this point in time I am getting into message or ordering prescriptions. It’s just easier, it’s just how I have always done. Once you start using one that’s where you tend to stay. Its true in my case.

**Variation 1: Applying to health care benefits, 50% or higher disability rating is known at sign in (~half of participants, participant should have a disability rating of 50% or higher) - 15 minutes**

Let's pretend that you went through the sign in process and are taken to here (authenticated Intro page), from here please continue with the application.

* Participant will next be shown the short form notification

    * Can you tell me a little about your thoughts as you read this page? It looks pretty straightforward. They always seem to stress mental health; I understand that maybe the guys today see things I didn’t see. I just wonder if sometimes it makes it seem like they are really probing to see if I am all together or not mentally because of the frequency that it is mentioned in many of the things I get in the mail. To me it seems like they stress mental health, maybe that’s how it should be today. I don’t take offense but I wonder what they are after.

    * More about feelings or thoughts: Well I guess whether or not I have got the facilities above me to handle life in the way it should be rather than going off the deep end

    * Asking that each time you see it: yeah it reinforces it.

    * Go on as you would: its nice to see it includes information for the spouse if they are involved. I didn’t start over but had to go back to the beginning and do things they required for my wife and no one said anything about it originally so its good to cover that on the front end and maybe to stress it is for their benefit to provide them some of the things they’ll be qualified for the health side and I guess the exchange and commissary. I am sure in some places it would be important

    * Want this to expand on benefits for spouses: yes as a reminder that the benefits extends beyond the individual. An assumption would be made that I was applying after the military or am I applying later date. The gross income could change I got a civilian job. I guess it doesn’t make an assumption, it provides the starting point form when you apply. It could be different for someone that is just getting out of the military and getting into the va due to injury or if it is someone that has been out for awhile and now wants to apply. The background information for the individual could change significantly which was the case for me. I know me going in was due to agent orange but I didn’t know I would be applying for this or need to apply for this until I found out there was a connection with the issues I was having. I was taking care of a lot of it before I knew. I finally ended at duke university and due to their work with the VA it was recommended. If I hadn’t been involved in that I would have continued on as I was.

    * What do you expect to happen next? Lets start the application.

    * Thoughts: I like it, knowing I wont need to back track on information I provided over the years. I am glad to see that they are keeping record of what they have

    * Expectation: if it were me now I would say it will be a lot easier then I thought.

* Participant will next navigate to the first page of the form "Veteran information"

    * Mostly let the participant fill out the form: are these going to require a dash between numbers or can I just enter the numbers. I would just type the numbers all the way across. That number is the same one because I don’t have a hard line anymore.

    * Review:  personally I think there should be a brief explanation why you want me to enter into each one to check them. You already have my information. Step 3 of 3 review.(reading page) I have already provided the information or you already have on file, since it is a benefit of the individual filling it out, it may be beneficial as to why we are reviewing the information.

    * How would you interact with his page: I tried to enter into it but it wont let me so I think it may be what hasn’t been updated. I liked on the name and the plus side.

If it was working what would be there: I think it would solve all the problems if you have a comment that you are double checking everything is complete. Other than that I don’t see anything wrong.

What next if it was correct: I would come down check the box and submit.

    * Make special note of how participant interacts with the green alert that talks about the short form: that they are going to be asking for new information since they indicated they already have a file on me or I assume they are verifying what they have.

    * They have a file and information they don’t have or need verified is what you are looking at: that is the assumption I would make.

    * Leave you with questions or general questions: no I don’t think so. It ahs been straightforward.

    * Happen after submitted: I guess I would be looking for some sort of message from va that they received what was needed for the application process to begin giving me a time period or some sort of date that would expect to hear back from them and in what way. Maybe I would already given enough information to have a percentage of disability or coverage. I know you want to make it simple so maybe just a future date to expect to hear back and how it would come to me, either mail or email.

    * Preferred method: since we are doing this online I would think that would be the fastest way. If it is someone just getting out of the service they may be moving and haven’t found a percetn location. They would always have that email contact whereas they may not have an exact mailing address yet. the message when clicking submit it may also ask if they have a preference. Some people may prefer mail but as everything is with email, you might as well use that

    * What would you pick: I would pick email.

**Post task questions - 5 minutes**

Wonderful! I have a few questions about what you just saw in the prototype.

**Overall**

* What did you think of the overall experience? Well it was so much easier then when I applied. What I should say is they already have a file on me so I would have had to provide more information. They haven’t said how they will communicate the information, records keeping part of it. maybe health records, doctor visits or conclusions.

* Explain: how I am as a beginner will provide hard copy data to those that need it. like do I take it somewhere or do I mail it, is it copies or originals.

* Medical records: exactly and my dd214., birth certification, marriage certification. I found out to have them as an original. At the time they weren’t exacting copies, I had to get an original of the documents. I had a hard time getting them.

* Was there anything that stood out to you?

* Tell me about this experience in your own words, as if I was another Veteran interested in applying for health care: I guess I would start by encouraging them early on to start the application and tell them they probably want to keep copies of the correspondence of the records they plan to send so they have a duplicate file of what va will have. I would encourage them to use the new method.

* What did you think of this "short form" experience? well based on all of the things I needed to do not just for the military. It was a short form and to the point and asks the things the va needs to.

* Any other thoughts or questions for me before we conclude? Other than what we talked about. I would just wonder how  to get the records to them and what method. It is what you would need if applying from scratch. It would be the health records in order to confirm I have the need for care. I wouldn’t want it to be too complicated but just so the service members knows what is being asked for is really something that is needed and why it is needed.

* Questions or concerns: no I know where you are coming form and I like it. if anyone has the comparison with it in the past would definitely jump on it.

**Thank you and Closing**

Well we really appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us today. Your feedback is so helpful to us as we continue to improve our products and services for Veterans and service members.

Thank you so much again and enjoy the rest of your day!

 

