Conversation Guide: VSA Caregiver, Usability research of shortened form based on disability rating for the 10-10EZ, September 2021

*Start recording to the Cloud.*

* I have started recording. I'd like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record my screen and audio as we talk today?" yes

Ok. Now we're really ready to begin!

Warm-up Questions - 5 minutes

For Veterans:

* Tell me a little about yourself

* How many years has it been since you left the service?

* Do you currently have health care benefits through the VA or through another provider? Yes, I am seen by the va and then Tricare. Theres a new initiative for dual enrollees.

* Tell me a little bit about how you chose this health care option? My primary care provider is through the va and they utilize what is within va and then Tricare. They make the referral or types of care required

* Va care: I guess applied in 2014 for disability. At that point it was approved for care with the va. I was enrolled then in 2-14. Then the new process, has just been about a year and that process was simple. It was call this number and give them the name and you are enrolled.

* Over phone: yes

* application: it was primary on paper, fill out the document then the process you sit down with other doctors and a lot of wo0rk that went on behind the screen from the va to be fully enrolled and the disability claim adjudicated.

* timeline: I don’t remember the number of months but it was less than a year, like 6-8 months.

Health Care application introduction page - 5 minutes

* Please read the entire page and let me know if any questions come to mind: Part of what I would do would depend on the time I have. I wouldn’t click on that button, I would follow the steps, click on the eligibility requirements, then gather information (reading page), then after that I would start the application. Actually the start application looks misleading to be honest because it’s not a start application. It is another section. It really is what happens after I apply button. Then step 4 is sign in and start application. I am just reading though the directions quickly because it says sign in to start and start without signing in. it answers the question why. Information will already be entered so I would sign in for security of it.

 

* After participant reads and initial questions are noted:

    * What do you think of the listed requirements?

    * Expectation of time: so I would in a perfect world, less then 30 minutes and be done. Certainly it would save time to check the eligibility piece to make sure I am eligible without going to the bottom to fill it out and waste time.

    * Requirements work as expected: so I almost would group those better. I assume I can enroll if all of these statements are true then I would break it up and see this as a separate section. A question in my mind is to make it clear it is a separate section. All of these must be true then must meet one of these requirements. There should be an and between these sections.

    * Concern there: making sure the people see the statements. Those are two separate things and making is super clear that they are separate. You have to have all of these and at least one of these service requirements.

Variation 1: Applying to health care benefits, 50% or higher disability rating is known at sign in (~half of participants, participant should have a disability rating of 50% or higher) - 15 minutes

Let's pretend that you went through the sign in process and are taken to here (authenticated Intro page), from here please continue with the application.

* Participant will next be shown the short form notification

    * Can you tell me a little about your thoughts as you read this page? I would read through the top line there; I am not sure as a consumer that I care if it va care 1010ez. I am not sure that it adds value. When I click on start it will take me to that form. This statement makes sense for healthcare. Instead of apply online now, apply but clicking green button below. I see the green button but I try to streamline. Then I have the same information here. Is that in case I missed it on the prior page

    * Thoughts: it seems like I am being pounded on the head with eh same information. To me I got it. its redundant to have it all over again. You told me the requirements and what to do so I would click to start.

    * Thinking the next page would be the application: yes. If there would be a second button or not, I don’t know if I had an expectation for that but now that I think of it, if this information would be on the previous page, well it is right there. It would be good to go directly there to sign into the no kidding form.

    * What do you expect to happen next?

    * Do you have any questions?

    * Is there anything that stands out to you on this page? Good, bad, indifferent

Alright, let's continue

* Participant will next navigate to the first page of the form "Veteran information"

    * Mostly let the participant fill out the form: the form infomration isnt useful to me. now am I applying for healthcare or just eligibility.

    * Thoughts and difference: I guess is there a possibility of filling this out and go to the percentage of not eleiable people. I guess healthcare because I checked the eligibility. 

    * What happened there: I tried to tab. Normally it will just go to the next block. When I tabbed it went back to the previous block.

    * If I need extra help I can call for assistance. Am I supposed to know what a location service organization is? From my perspective, in OH we have then in every county that could help but someone else could read that as DVA, VFW, etc. that may not know what I am talking about when I call them.  These buttons don’t work I would assume you need dashes, my states missing. TN is spelled wrong. it says birth sex, I don’t really care about having 50 million choices for sex but it is clear that it is birth sex so that makes it clear.

    * If it did have other choices, feelings: It always makes me wonder when I see them, what’s the point. Why does this matter. That’s what it makes me wonder. I think it could be misleading to list a lot of choices. Maybe I am taking it to far but it makes me wonder if the va is going to help me. say I am transgender; will they help me with that. If the va is interested in that, it could mean they will assist me with that. Me personally I don’t know if that is possible but that could lead them down the path of thinking they will assist either mental health which makes sense but the physical side is the path I walk down in my brain.

    * Helpful to explain the question: yes.

    * Ethnicity: that’s not typical to have more than one choice. Normally there is a selection for multiple races instead of selecting them. I guess this is a more direct way of getting the demographics. This is probably a better way because multiracial could be a lot of things.

    * Mailing: this is important because this is how I get updated. I guess the mailing address could be different for some people. I am trying to think why someone may have a different home and mailing address. I guess if you have a p.o box.

    * Va benefits: that would be. I guess the first 2 are self-explanatory. Va pension, there may need to be more of an explanation. I think va pension is if I was a va employee and retired from the va is what that would mean. Then I wonder, I cant click on 3 things. What if I am disabled and get a va pension or confused what va pension is.

    * Va pension not clear: correct. You could get a pension and have a rating. I think that requires further clarity.

    * Last page: it looks like if I am getting 50 percent or higher theres a shorter application which is cool. That’s self-explanatory.

    * Expectation: I think it is less then 30  minutes, maybe 15. I don’t know that’s a guess. If I have questions then theres the answer and the va will confirm it if I am not sure. I don’t know how I wouldn’t be sure but I guess theres a possibility.

    * Make special note of how participant interacts with the green alert that talks about the short form: I can look here if I was wondering. I wouldn’t normally click that I would just be happy to filling out a shorter explanation.

    * Health insurance is straightforward.

    * Typical have: I would need to grab it from my wallet unless it was something it told me to gather, which it is so it would be n3ext to me. then I’m done. Way less than 15 minutes

    * Review: I don’t know if I would review this, I might. I tried to click on it. the question is why is this here, do you want me to review. If you want me to review, it should have a statement, review to ensure accuracy. It would make me click it and correct it if needed.

    * Privacy policy that is required, I guess it’s a legal thing so I have to click it

    * Expectations of plus icon: on previous steps it will list the application information. For this on it wouldn’t be a PDF it would be the information I filled out so I can go back right there to fix it and save it and then go to the next category to do the same thing. Then submit it. it doesn’t look like I can but that’s what I would do

    * Expectations: I am on this page, I signed in, then up here it says sign in. then the same comment for 1010ez. After clicking submit I would expect a confirmation and reminder for how long it takes to be reviewed and I can sign in to check the status at any time. I have a bar below, its 4 sections, it would be cool if it showed me where I am. Like the bar that shows what’s completed. That’s it on that page.

    * How to be contacted: through email. That’s a good point, maybe that should be part of the message, thanks for the application you should hear through email so please check regularly and to check the status.

Post task questions - 5 minutes

Wonderful! I have a few questions about what you just saw in the prototype.

Overall

* What did you think of the overall experience? It was really simple which is good. Easy to follow, directions overall was good other than what I mentioned. I think overall it was a good experience.

* Tell me about this experience in your own words, as if I was another Veteran interested in applying for health care: I would say go to this site it is super simple, it takes 10-15 minutes at the most. That’s what I would tell them. In the back of my mind, I guess there would be other information they need like medical records but they really don’t for the application.

* Will everyone have the short experience: no. so based on my understanding me at one point I selected myself for the short form. I imagine if I click this instead it would put me on the long form option. I don’t know how long it is but I would still encourage them to do it and be in the system if they served.

* Any other thoughts or questions for me before we conclude? I really don’t. this is a simple process and that is what I would tell people. Totally worth the time, and it’s just being at the computer, that’s it. it’s not like you have to going on a fishing trip to finish the form.

Thank you and Closing

Well we really appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us today. Your feedback is so helpful to us as we continue to improve our products and services for Veterans and service members.

Thank you so much again and enjoy the rest of your day!

 

