**Conversation Guide: VSA Caregiver, Usability research of shortened form based on disability rating for the 10-10EZ, September 2021**

*Start recording to the Cloud.*

* **I have started recording. I'd like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record my screen and audio as we talk today?" that’s fine**

Ok. Now we're really ready to begin!

**Warm-up Questions - 5 minutes**

**For Veterans:**

* Tell me a little about yourself

* How many years has it been since you left the service?

* Do you currently have health care benefits through the VA or through another provider? Mostly the healthcare is through Medicare and Tricare for life as a secondary. I get glasses through the va and hearing aids. Rated at 60%

* Tell me a little bit about how you chose this health care option? The va because I get free hearing aids and glasses, I am in a retiree community so we have a medical facility on site whereas the VA is 1.5 hours away in downtown DC. Its not convenient to do that and because I have the Tricare coverage it was more convenient before this. I don’t use them directly besides for medications I get at Walter reed.

* Have you ever filled out the VA Health Care application either partially or fully? When I retired in 94 I did my application and I was rated at 10 percent. Then in 2-16 I read an article and then worked with the DAV to submit a number of applications. That’s when my rating went from 10 to 60 percent. I had to work through appeals to get it straightened out and my shoulder injury medical records were misplaced. The time period it was right after my Tricare records were not transferred so I had to spend a year searching for them. The first round was in 2018 then I had a bunch of appeals because I located the records and got my rated of 60 in 2020.

* Forms with the va, general thoughts and process of the forms: I helped on the submission forms. It was very frustrating. To things that aren’t available are the finding letters, they are hard to find and then submitting the records and tracking them down. Like when I was looking for them again it was hard finding them and then they wouldn’t accept the records. Va.gov would not give me my status for almost 8 months, I was getting appointments but the status was unknown. The website was frustrating. I worked with you all for a few years now, transitioning the online forms is on the right path. I didn’t experience using them but I think it helps. I had a lot of experience using the other forms.

* Any answer to why the status: never a response even after letters and calling.

**Health Care application introduction page - 5 minutes**

* Please read the entire page and let me know if any questions come to mind: I was in the process of putting in another application so I have gone to this part, wait this is va health care I have not applied for va healthcare.  Here is the apply for healthcare, is this not working. I personally tend not to sign in. I do to avoid; it saves me time and I want to see what I am going through without being committed.

* After participant reads and initial questions are noted:

    * What do you think of the listed requirements?

    * Is there anything that you would not have on-hand or would need to prepare before starting this application?

    * Do you have any additional thoughts or questions?

**Variation 1: Applying to health care benefits, 50% or higher disability rating is known at sign in (~half of participants, participant should have a disability rating of 50% or higher) - 15 minutes**

Let's pretend that you went through the sign in process and are taken to here (authenticated Intro page), from here please continue with the application.

* Participant will next be shown the short form notification

    * Can you tell me a little about your thoughts as you read this page?

    * What do you expect to happen next?

    * Do you have any questions?

    * Is there anything that stands out to you on this page? Alright, let's continue

* Participant will next navigate to the first page of the form "Veteran information"

    * Mostly let the participant fill out the form:  The category list to describe you, it doesn’t have the I prefer not to answer button. I would have expected that option.

    * Check box: I would have filled in what I had. I don’t think I would have lied about it.

    * Cause you to stop: me personally, it would depend on what I was looking for healthcare. If it were an alternate place for healthcare.

    * Insurance: it wont let me click it, the first two times it didn’t accept it. I can tell you for Tricare there is no group number so it being a required field.

    * What would you do: I would put in none and how they take it. for Tricare and you’ll have a lot of them if they are Tricare for life or prime. All you have is the 1 number that is on your id card.   You might want to consider a tick mark for Tricare or Medicare instead of the name of the provider.

    * Prompt participant to interact with alert on the third or fourth page of the form if they haven't already:  I did notice the alert. I thought it was good. I mean I want to make it as quick and easy as possible. I didn’t click the link.

    * Obvious it could be clicked: no it wasn’t. the down arrow is a bit dull.

    * Noticed the alert, what did you think it meant: I noticed it, I didn’t notice until you pointed it out the link mark. The link I expect to see in blue with an underline. This shows its an internet link pull down. If I was going to bring down a file it would still stay as the normal onscreen curser. You might want to change that to say as 50 percent disabled you are filling out a shorter application then this be a question mark.

    * Thinking it goes to another page: yes, that’s why I was hesitant. Its an infomration box. You can do that or you could just put the question mark in a circle there or change the words to as 50 percent disabled you are filling out a shorter application

    * Expectation of shorter application: pretty much this, my name, insurance, and I think if I went to a normal doctors office they ask what my issues are, PMC. If this is just checking for eligibility which I think maybe it should be called that, apply for health care eligibility because it’s your healthcare entry form. If I did this at the doctors I would expect to make an appointment after this.

    * Review: I would expect to see what I have already entered. I would assume there is a privacy policy even though the link doesn’t work. Then submit. I would guess I am at the end. I think this is just an application, it is probably fine. You might want to ask what type of healthcare they are looking for. Again I am 50 percent so I get it all, I guess one of the questions would be, are you asking for the disability related. I am not sure the rules, I might be able to get everything. Maybe going back to the beginning when I clicked. Maybe have what type of healthcare you are eligible for. I think 10-20 percent theres a way to check before applying. If it is only service connected disabilities. If not I would expect a list to be provided. Here I am kind of what am I eligible for, should I even go through the process.

    * Before or after to get the list: Either here or the first one that has a link or if theres a summary of what my healthcare opportunities. Do I even bother filling out the form. If I were to click on I do not receive any va pay.

    * More clarity on eligibility: right.

    * Submitting, next page expectations: I guess it depends on what they are doing next. I would expect a confirmation and how they will contact us. We will be sending a verification email within 24 hours and a notification of eligibility. Then what will happen next. And if who to contact if I don’t get the verification.

    * How do you think they would be in contact: having dealt with the va there is generally an email that comes back acknowledging the submission. I don’t know about checking health status but the disability status, theres a page online to see that it ahs  been submitted, process, then if they did send something there would be a notification on the screen. The annoying part was with disability is that they sent the letter but couldn’t locate the letter online. It ahs taken longer than a month. My last one it took over a month form the time I knew the decision was made and then I moved and the letter was lost in the mail. Again it is my standard complaint. The correspondence you have to call to get a copy or go to the dav. They can download it but I can’t do that.

    * Came by month after a month: yes that’s all you get. The official decision letter comes by mail. I couldn’t even see the decision . This was for proper calculation of my disability. I didn’t know what they accepted or rejected until I got the letter.

 

**Post task questions - 5 minutes**

Wonderful! I have a few questions about what you just saw in the prototype.

**Overall**

* What did you think of the overall experience? I think having this online is good, it asked the questions I expected besides the healthcare I was looking for. I don’t know if they need that at this point, that’s why I go back to the degree of healthcare I would qualify for. Its better then nothing. Otherwise it is what I expected to fill out to go to the doctors office. As long as I get the follow up its great.

* Tell me about this experience in your own words, as if I was another Veteran interested in applying for health care: This is straight forward. I did the disability claim and we worked a lot getting things cleaned up. There are things that weren’t connected, during the research. It was because I went through the process there were things I couldn’t get; I mentioned the decision letters. If I am appealing a decision, if I misplaced the letter, how do appeal it without knowing. This is a simple process. I have a claim that I am trying to establish that my service was during Vietnam, its not medical documents its service record documents but the only one I have is the disability form. The questions are all, do I have to say I want to link the disability to this, they already have my medical records they need the service record infomration. Before I was on active duty I was on training and went through combat zones in Vietnam. That made us eligible to be considered a Vietnam  vet and eligible for other conditions. I don’t know if that makes a difference if I change the era vets so I don’t know what to fill in those blanks. Then there was a disconnect, there are two different forms for comments. It wasn’t obvious that they were both filled out.

* Any other thoughts or questions for me before we conclude? The coverage is the only one I had questions about. That would be it.

**Thank you and Closing**

Well we really appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us today. Your feedback is so helpful to us as we continue to improve our products and services for Veterans and service members.

Thank you so much again and enjoy the rest of your day!

 

