Conversation Guide: VSA Caregiver, Usability research of shortened form based on disability rating for the 10-10EZ, September 2021

*Start recording to the Cloud.*

* I have started recording. I'd like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record my screen and audio as we talk today?"

Ok. Now we're really ready to begin!

Warm-up Questions - 5 minutes

* Do you currently have health care benefits through the VA or through another provider? I use Tricare prime at the naval hospital and va healthcare

* When va healthcare: May of 2020

* Tell me a little bit about how you chose this health care option? It wasn’t hard, I retired as could’ve started. I went through out processing and then submitted my claim and used the site to apply for healthcare and then went to the clinic to be screens, did labs and then a 1 hour phone call with the va and it ahs been fine since. I use va for mental health all other primary is through Tricare because it is closer to my house.

* Have you ever filled out the VA Health Care application either partially or fully? After being in the navy for 21 years you are always filling out forms and answering the same thing over and over. I did it for Tricare, then to retire then for va. Everyone asks the same data but since the initial there hasn’t been any data entry. The learning curve was benefits and healthcare. To be screened for disability , it doesn’t go through the va health care so I had to take it and then submit it to benefits.

* Thoughts: it seems odd in a sense but I don’t think it is communicated well to new veterans. I think others believe they talk and it would be an automatic process. I friend said we go to the appointments but disability hasn’t increased. From an outsider going in it doesn’t seem well. One is for health and the other is to worry about ebenfits. If they have to keep each other happy it would make it slower. For me it wasn’t a bad deal because I knew about it before.

Health Care application introduction page - 5 minutes

* Please read the entire page and let me know if any questions come to mind: it looks familiar that it is the theme of the va site, if I remember this page, no because it was two years ago. I would assume there would be a yeas no because it is asking a question if I have or hadn’t. if I had then I would want to see sign in to check the status if I hadn’t it would say sign in to start the process. either way you still need to sigh in to check the status.

* Looking for the place to start: for someone that is technology challenged, they are focused on the button, it doesn’t give me an option to answer the question asked. I would scroll down or click the button to see where it would take me. I would click that without having read below at all.

* Keep going: I would have clicked the button but it won’t let me. if the button didn’t work I would read and try to figure it out. I would click all of the buttons I have done that before and left like I was going in a circle. If I am looking for a link, I have found out that you are looking for some information and its on ebenefits but you are on va.gov. some don’t understand why there are two sites but one is for healthcare and the other is for benefits.

* Click link: I know how the hyper links work so if I have more questions I click it and I normally know why people are collecting the information. On number 3 I would click what happens after so I know what happens when I start the process. it says I have a letter in the mail and it will tell me if I was approved. I wouldn’t login to check since I will get a letter. Normally the data is mirrored on the sight. I would click to sign in to start. I don’t know why people want to start it without signing in.

* Why odd: signing in if you already registered, they will have most of the data so it would be prepopulated. If you don’t sign in then its not done or may not be mapped to my account. I am making a reservation, using the guest site but not the member account and points not added to the account. Why would you not want to marry them together immediately. If you could start it without logging in it will eventually make you login.

 

* After participant reads and initial questions are noted:

    * What do you think of the listed requirements?

    * Is there anything that you would not have on-hand or would need to prepare before starting this application?

    * Do you have any additional thoughts or questions?

Variation 1: Applying to health care benefits, 50% or higher disability rating is known at sign in (~half of participants, participant should have a disability rating of 50% or higher) - 15 minutes

Let's pretend that you went through the sign in process and are taken to here (authenticated Intro page), from here please continue with the application.

* Participant will next be shown the short form notification

    * Can you tell me a little about your thoughts as you read this page? My assumption was correct, it says it will prefill the application with existing data. I would click the green button without looking. It is the same stuff on the prior page

    * Thoughts: I would eliminate the green button here and encourage people to read through it again just in case. It says you have to follow the steps but provide the choice to leave the page first. I know people don’t like to scroll but people will click this before reading. It looks like it is the same data. For me I would just click start application.

    * What do you expect to happen next?

    * Do you have any questions?

    * Is there anything that stands out to you on this page? Good, bad, indifferent

Alright, let's continue

* Participant will next navigate to the first page of the form "Veteran information"

    * Mostly let the participant fill out the form: thanks for not making me scroll for my birthday, the year. It was like 50 years ago. so far its good, no problem. I know because I am not logged in but if I were I assume it would be prefilled.

    * Expectations of prefill: standard stuff, name, DOB, numbers, address. I did web development before and we found out they were entering the general information 12 times within 12 months. Enter it once and then show it to me to verify. Use the opportunity to collect updated data as an organization. I use different tools on the browser that prefills the data.

    * Email and number filled: yes.

    * I don’t use my phone number often. My mobile number is my number. I think primary contact would be good. The system normally wants to call at home. I get message from my provider because I gave it to them as well.

    * Preferred method: cellphone. It depends on some things I like an email, text, or a call. that’s a demographic shift. The younger generation may want a text the older generation may want a letter or call.

    * Compensation: I know that I have to answer it because the two don’t speak. If it could be auto populated it would be great. Some may forget and think it is still on the site so they would exit out without saving. There is no link to let them check the compensation, maybe a link to check the va compensation and opens a different window. If they are already logged in they wont need to login again. I think that would be great right here. I know what mine is, when were at this point we tend to just have completed the process but who knows.

    * Insurance: this is all fine infomration because not everyone has Tricare. So I don’t think adding a link to Tricare wouldn’t be a benefits. It would be a majority but not everyone

    * Experience: how I would expect to apply for anything really, asks general information. I know they want to know if I have outside insurance. Demographic information, contact information and the insurance. So far so good. They aren’t not asking something I would expect.

    * Dropdown: why I need to confirm the disability. I wouldn’t read it because I know what it means. Healthcare doesn’t know my rating. This is just explaining why they are asking.

    * Meet your expectations: yes.

    * Because I am over 50 percent I am filling out a shorter application

    * What does that mean: it will be fewer healthcare questions because if you have 100 percent then you have provided a lot of information. I know there are a lot of laws in place regarding eligibility for medical ebenfits based on ratings. For less then 50 percetn they don’t have to give me everything but since I am over 50 they are required by law.

    * Review: I would click all three plus so I could review the information

    * Expectation: everything I entered would be there and allow me to make adjustments if I needed if it was put incorrectly. Click I have read and accept then submit

    * Expect next: probably a summary of the stuff you said earlier in the drop down. It takes 5-10 days and you will get a letter from the va or use this link to check your status or update any information. Maybe 2 weeks period your wife loses her job and you lose medical. Cell phone is broken so now you get a new one. There is a lot to ensure we still have medical coverage. I would check everyday due to the anxiety, like do I have healthcare. I had pay issues when I got out, so I had to keep going back and fourth to get dental, health and vision because of my pay thing. I don’t go to the site now

    * How were you checking: I do everything on the web. Even to communicate with my PMC I start online. The va was really good for me because the process was easy, I wanted to get reevaluated so I went in and clicked buttons and it happened. I rarely pick p the phone and call someone.

    * Make special note of how participant interacts with the green alert that talks about the short form

    * Next thing by mail: my experience is that the va does final notification by mail.

    * If you had a choice: I think I would default to mail, I like seeing it on the site which I can login and get a copy of the letters. Getting the letter in the mail that goes into my va folder. I have a physical file. A younger veteran may be cool with an email. Even if I had an email with pdf I would print it and put it in my folder. I cant take a website somewhere and so it to someone.

Post task questions - 5 minutes

Wonderful! I have a few questions about what you just saw in the prototype.

Overall

* Tell me about this experience in your own words, as if I was another Veteran interested in applying for health care: It was really easy because I assume they are getting infomration from my account. I assume that a VA healthcare benefits person has access to healthcare in some way. My assumption is that they would call if they had questions or need something. That may be something that they put on the confirmation screen as well. I would tell my buddy that they should get healthcare form the va it is super simple. My friend right now ahs healthcare but never benefits. I think he had to provide the long form.

* Any other thoughts or questions for me before we conclude? I don’t.

Thank you and Closing

Well we really appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us today. Your feedback is so helpful to us as we continue to improve our products and services for Veterans and service members.

Thank you so much again and enjoy the rest of your day!

 

