**Conversation Guide: VSA Caregiver, Usability research of shortened form based on disability rating for the 10-10EZ, September 2021**

*Start recording to the Cloud.*

* **I have started recording. I'd like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record my screen and audio as we talk today?"**

Ok. Now we're really ready to begin!

**Warm-up Questions - 5 minutes**

* Do you currently have health care benefits through the VA or through another provider? Yes, VA, Medicare and Tricare for Life

* How long with the va: Retired end of 91. Been using VA since 2005, said I didn’t have issues before that. Initially applied when retiring from Army

**Health Care application introduction page - 5 minutes**

* Please read the entire page and let me know if any questions come to mind:

* After participant reads and initial questions are noted: First, immediately went to check application status. Then would click on bread crumb>"How to apply”

Might click on link>how to get mental health care

Click on the accordion "What are the eligibility…" -No [question] It is pretty self-explanatory if you fall into one of those categories. I’d say that’s pretty clear.

Then gather your information- SSN, discharge info, insurance cards, last year’s income. So that when you are filling out the application you can have all of that data right there

Cause a delay? Yes, if you don't have all of your requirements like last year's gross, deductible. A lot of folks don’t know how that plays into VA HC. For me it doesn’t matter because I am a Vietnam Vet. - I am exempt from all of that.

It explains why they ask for it. (Clicks on accordion)

Then you can start the application. If you have an established sign in then you can do that, that way if you have to do that, that way if you have to leave you can come back to it.

* No questions, I’ll go ahead and sign in

**Variation 2: Applying to health care benefits, 50% or higher disability rating is known at self-report**

Would I already have my disability rating yet? - Answers at current status of 50% or higher

* Participant will next be shown the short form notification

No pause on alert

-Fills out Insurance info (puts dr name in Name of policy holder). 

Would you have all of that info handy? If you paid attention to the first part of it, where it said to get everything together before applying, you would have everything handy.

**On Review**

* Expect: Everything that i had inputted, looking to make sure it is correct.

* After submission: I would expect another screen, all your information has been submitted and accepted, timeframe, answer you by email. You’ll receive an email within 24hrs that all of this had been received. 

* Expect it through email. 

* Preferred contact: I prefer text or email

**Post task questions - 5 minutes**

Wonderful! I have a few questions about what you just saw in the prototype.

**Overall**

* Was there anything that stood out to you?  No, it’s actually an easy process to do. ...This is much simpler and clear and with all of the drop-down boxes that tells you what you need to start with, so it should be an easy process to put it in and apply.

* Any other thoughts or questions for me before we conclude? I didn’t really have any questions, I think most everything was answered as you went along. It told you what you were going to need, and if you hit a problem, the explanation was there.

**Reflecting on short form**

* Expectation when seeing short form: That it would not be a lengthy process, and a large portion was already in the system, that would allow them to take a small amount of data that I would put in and combine those two to get the answer.

* This is a much simpler process than what we used to have to do.

* Would everyone be able to have the short form: I think everyone should be able to have it. If they left the service, filled out applications that were sent to the VA.

**Looking at short form confirmation**

* I know that at 50% disability rating they pay for more. I know that because I had had that question asked of me. They may want to put an explanation of why that question is there. Why they need to know if it is 50% or more.

**On the Alert page**

Had you read that? 

-I hadn’t read that. I didn’t notice it. I also think that might be better on the previous page of why they want to ask that question. No questions after reading it.

**On small green box alert**

* Noticed this one. That you’re not going to go back and put all that information in that went on your initial application. You issues. That’s going to marry that together

* *Clear to click on?* Yes, the little arrow.

How we can present the short form

Do you think everyone would be able to have it? I think just about anyone who has put in an application, in the past or current, I think would appreciate a short form application. Hopefully it’s not a false sense of security that they have your information on file and marry it with information on file. At least they have some idea who you are.

I think this will make things go smoother. Much smoother than in the past.

**Thank you and Closing**

Well we really appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us today. Your feedback is so helpful to us as we continue to improve our products and services for Veterans and service members.

Thank you so much again and enjoy the rest of your day!

 

