**Conversation Guide: VSA Caregiver, Usability research of shortened form based on disability rating for the 10-10EZ, September 2021**

*Start recording to the Cloud.*

* **I have started recording. I'd like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record my screen and audio as we talk today?"**

Ok. Now we're really ready to begin!

**Warm-up Questions - 5 minutes**

* Do you currently have health care benefits through the VA or through another provider? Yes I do I have employer health care and va.

* How long with the va: since 2000.

* Tell me a little bit about how you chose this health care option? That’s when I felt the military and was declared a disabled vet.

* Have you ever filled out the VA Health Care application either partially or fully? No, I think they just told me I was enrolled.

**Health Care application introduction page - 5 minutes**

* Please read the entire page and let me know if any questions come to mind:

* After participant reads and initial questions are noted: Okay I would click on sign in to start the application

* Anything stand out or start right away: I would just start it, the va puts everything you need at the end. I just want what I need. Prefers the button at the top.

**Variation 1: Applying to health care benefits, 50% or higher disability rating is known at sign in (~half of participants, participant should have a disability rating of 50% or higher) - 15 minutes**

Let's pretend that you went through the sign in process and are taken to here (authenticated Intro page), from here please continue with the application.

* Participant will next be shown the short form notification

* Interacted with id.me before: yes that’s how I login to see my benefits.

    * Can you tell me a little about your thoughts as you read this page? 

    * What do you expect to happen next?

    * Do you have any thoughts/questions? The green button is at the top now.

    * Immediately go in to start: yes.

    * Is there anything that stands out to you on this page?

* Participant will next navigate to the first page of the form "Veteran information"

    * Mostly let the participant fill out the form: so far its good.

    * Anything standing out: no it seems alright so far.

    * Make special note of how participant interacts with the green alert that talks about the short form: I get a shorter application because I am over 50 percent. That is wonderful. Most applications I do have like 10 screens.

    * Expectation: Maybe it will just look up my disability and see that I am covered for everything and I can just be enrolled.

    * Insurance: would I put in my personal infomration. I wouldn’t pout in my insurance because I would want them to pay for everything

    * If insurance is put there va wouldn’t provide as much: correct.

    * Want more information for why they are asking this: yes. I would want it on the step because when they ask if I had other insurance.

    * *would not fill out insurance*

    * Would have gone back and said no: yes I would have went back and changed it.

    * Time and short message, meet expectations: it was much better than normal applications.

    * Tell me more: a lot of applications I have done like VocRehab, even application when I applied for compensation there was a lot of screens.

    * Compared to that: this was faster. I assume if I hadn’t been 50 percent or higher it would have been higher. You only get all healthcare paid for at the va if you are over 50 percent.

    * Short form alert when you got here I assume you took time to read it: yes

    * Thoughts as you read it: I was thinking 50 percent or higher they ask less questions because if you are 50 percent or higher you are eligible for all healthcare.

    * Questions or concerns: no it was clear.

    * Thoughts when you saw this: when I saw 3 of 4 I was excited. I don’t think it had step of step when I first started it was just step 1 or 2 then changed to step 3 of 4 here.

    * Questions was it clear: no it was clear.

    * Expect after hitting submit: probably tells me what the medical record number is, the phone numbers of departments and maybe it will let me pick a primary doctor

    * What to show medical numbers, what do you mean: like a number that is tied to my records

    * Phone number as well: yes so I can call the departments.

    * You assume this point you would be enrolled and can start to use it: yes.

    * If the va needs to contact you, how do you expect to contact you: either email or phone. Not mail because it takes forever. Mail still isn’t getting places in a timely manner.

**Post task questions - 5 minutes**

Wonderful! I have a few questions about what you just saw in the prototype.

**Overall**

* Was there anything that stood out to you?  No, I understood it well.

* Tell me about this experience in your own words, as if I was another Veteran interested in applying for health care: Um I would tell them I just applied and if you are over 50 percetn it is quicker. It only took 4 steps. They ask other health insurance but I didn’t fill out mine. If you do decide to do it, it wouldn’t take you that long.

* Any other thoughts or questions for me before we conclude? No other questions about this application.

**Thank you and Closing**

Well we really appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us today. Your feedback is so helpful to us as we continue to improve our products and services for Veterans and service members.

Thank you so much again and enjoy the rest of your day!

 

