Conversation Guide: VSA Caregiver, Usability research of shortened form based on disability rating for the 10-10EZ, September 2021

*Start recording to the Cloud.*

* I have started recording. I'd like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record my screen and audio as we talk today?" Okay.

Ok. Now we're really ready to begin!

Warm-up Questions - 5 minutes

For Veterans:

* Tell me a little about yourself

* How many years has it been since you left the service?

* Do you currently have health care benefits through the VA or through another provider? Just VA healthcare.

* Tell me a little bit about how you chose this health care option? I want to say it was 2014 I started to use the VA benefits when I was released from active duty.

* Have you ever filled out the VA Health Care application either partially or fully? No.

Health Care application introduction page - 5 minutes

* Please read the entire page and let me know if any questions come to mind: Just looking at check eligibility, gather information and start application. It looks familiar but it ahs been awhile.

* How will the process be: I don’t know I feel like it might be complicated. I know it is asking for a lot of information and some of it isnt what you just have on you like insurance card, SSN, and military discharge information. I don’t carry my dd214.

    * Is there anything that you would not have on-hand or would need to prepare before starting this application? Since I don’t pay taxes, the gross income taxes for the household for my spouse and me. I would need to figure that out. The rest of it seems easy. The SSN for my spouse and dependents is a laundry list. The only issue would be dd214 and SSN’s. I think everything else I cut and dry.

    * Do you have any additional thoughts or questions? No

    * What next: it just says start application so I would need to check the eligibility first.

    * Where: Theres a link to what are requirements to enroll. I would click that.

    * Go ahead, expect that: It gives you the list of overall of what you need. (reading page) I have clicked on links before on government sites and it doesn’t always turn out the way it is. It is a little more complicated. This is better, this is what I need.

    * What next: (reading page) it goes to start the application. I think I would need to gather my information first. sign in to start the application.

    * Do you have an online login with va: I have the ebenefits portal and myhealthevet.

Variation 3: Applying to health care benefits, does not have 50% or higher disability rating (1-2 participants) - 15 minutes

Let's pretend that you went through the sign in process and are taken to here (authenticated Intro page), from here please continue with the application.

* Participant will next be shown the short form notification

    * Can you tell me a little about your thoughts as you read this page? It says start the application. So far this is pretty painless, you just need to read it and make certain it is the next step. It is self-explanatory if you do that. It is at the top and bottom once you read through its on the bottom as well. If you get the OMB control number and expatriation date. It is self-explanatory so I would start the application.

    * What do you expect to happen next?

    * Do you have any questions?

    * Is there anything that stands out to you on this page? Good, bad, indifferent

Alright, let's continue

* Participant will next navigate to the first page of the form "Veteran information"

    * Mostly let the participant fill out the form: right now it is the basics. My name,  mothers maiden name. that’s it for this page. Then it just asks for basic information, DOB, gendered/sex, then goes into race. Then my mailing address. Then it goes to the email address, do you have to use the same that you used to login.

    * More than 1 email: theres an account for my wife and I and then theres one that I have had for years.

    * Okay what type of compensation do you current receive. This this it has different options. I know that 10-40 then 50 or higher, then va pension. That is confusing because I am 100 percent but do I click on the pension or 50 percent or higher

    * What would you do: I would put my rating. I think that could use more clarification

    * How do you see them differently: I have a rating but I also get a va pension so it’s like okay which one do I need to put.

    * Note: because I clicked on being 50 percetn or higher I assume the va pension would be more questions then the rating part is what I am getting out of it.

    * Make special note of how participant interacts with the green alert that talks about the short form

    * Feelings or thoughts: I am just going to see something real quick. It is completely different between rating and pensions

    * Thoughts:  think that could be very confusing. For myself I know I have a hard time navigating because its mind of muddy waters. If I want proof of service letter to go in MI. I get hunting and fishing licenses for free but I need the letter. I go on ebenfits and its like pulling teeth from a chicken. I have an issue with that and I could imagine applying for healthcare is harder. Not all veterans are tech savvy.

    * Where were at, how is it confusing: well if I feel like if I wasn’t 100 percent certain, the rating and the pension part. If you get both, you might not know which one to pick unless you knew exactly what you wanted. That part there would frustrate a lot of people because if its wrong then you have to go back, it could make it a longer process. Like if you apply for benefits, or do you have a pension and get disability rating. Clarification and mixing them both together would make it easier for those going on the site.

    * Note: it could just be combined together

    * Like how you explained before: yes

    * This page itself: no, this one is self-explanatory. That is cut and dry there. I like how it has why do I need to confirm. 

    * Expect next: it will probably ask my infomration, date of injury, where I was treated, just the basics I guess. This is obviously a government site and ahs all of my information I just need to verify it is me. it will probably ask questions to verify I am who I say I am

    * Next: it goes back to where I was before when I clicked on pension. That is an extra step for the same thing.

    * Majority of confusion solved if it was clear on first question: yes. Then I realized it brought me to where I was when I clicked on the other. It’s like a long walk off a short pier to do this.

    * Review: (reading page) you would fill all that out then brings you here. It is self-explanatory. I don’t know what they are asking in va benefits part but hopefully its not a ton of stuff.

This would be a review: oh, I just don’t know exactly what they would be asking. At least it tells you at the beginning what you would need on hand. I do like if I need help they have the links and stuff at the bottom and I can call numbers to.

    * Prompt participant to interact with alert on the third or fourth page of the form if they haven't already:

Post task questions - 5 minutes

Wonderful! I have a few questions about what you just saw in the prototype.

Overall

* What did you think of the overall experience?

* Was there anything that stood out to you?  You know I was kind of expecting to jump through loops to get to where I ne3eded to go. If you read through it all it tells you what you need to do, step 1,2,3. It was setup easily and easy to navigate.

* Tell me about this experience in your own words, as if I was another Veteran interested in applying for health care: I know initially when I was at WTU they were trying to have us login to ebenefits and do different things. It was intimidating because like I said if you aren’t tech savvy or do have complications it could be intimidating. It told you from the start what you needed to have, I know before it just told you to go to the site and never told you what you needed. This must be newer because I haven’t seen that before. As far as helping others that would be easy if you have it all here’s what you do. It self-explicatory. Its just that one part.

* As filling it out, it didn’t ask for that, thoughts: that’s a little strange but again it may be a just in case if you needed the information it was on hand. I know before in the past I went on to my benefits page for dependents. It  didn’t always have it, there was always something missing and information I needed.

* Any other thoughts or questions for me before we conclude? Is this like an actual site now or is it just testing the waters to see how it goes if it replaces something. I know before when I needed to fill out stuff on sites it was harder, this seems less painful then I had to deal with before.

Thank you and Closing

Well we really appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us today. Your feedback is so helpful to us as we continue to improve our products and services for Veterans and service members.

Thank you so much again and enjoy the rest of your day!

 

