**Conversation Guide: VSA Caregiver, Usability research of shortened form based on disability rating for the 10-10EZ, September 2021**

*Start recording to the Cloud.*

* **I have started recording. I'd like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record my screen and audio as we talk today?" Yes it is totally okay.**

Ok. Now we're really ready to begin!

**Warm-up Questions - 5 minutes**

* Do you currently have health care benefits through the VA or through another provider? I have Tricare for retirees and I use the va for some stuff. Mainly my stuff and then dental through my employer.

* Have you ever filled out the VA Health Care application either partially or fully? I imagine it was when I retired in December of 2020. It was either online or a phone call. I don’t remember if I finished on the phone, I think it was.

**Health Care application introduction page - 5 minutes**

* Please read the entire page and let me know if any questions come to mind:

* After participant reads and initial questions are noted: I have been to this page but I don’t think I applied here.  The only thing I think is that sign in to check status. I would expect the button to be higher then click it. I have to scroll all the way down to start, I would think it would be up here. I figure most people know if they are eligible. I wouldn’t think people that aren’t veterans would try to get va healthcare. Then all of this stuff, do people do not know it, maybe the gather infomration for gross income and expenses. I feel like all military should know they need the dd2314 on hand. Then maybe when you click apply have it come up do you need this stuff then have a continue.

* Already know so don’t need to go through before: Yes. 

    * What do you think of the listed requirements?

    * Is there anything that you would not have on-hand or would need to prepare before starting this application?

    * Do you have any additional thoughts or questions?  NO nothing else pops out.

    * What next: I would read it then I would click this button.

    * Do you have an account : Yes.

    * Start healthcare: click sign in but I would need to go get my password. Sign in as id.me. I assume if it is a bigger monitor I wouldn’t need to scroll to check it. I find it weird that I already clicked start and now I have to do it again. Once I said to start it I expected prefills to come up. I would need to read through this then start the application. When I read this, it doesn’t provide new information. I know it includes this, this doesn’t help me and it takes more to read. I come here and I expect to come here right away.

**Variation 1: Applying to health care benefits, 50% or higher disability rating is known at sign in (~half of participants, participant should have a disability rating of 50% or higher) - 15 minutes**

Let's pretend that you went through the sign in process and are taken to here (authenticated Intro page), from here please continue with the application.

* Participant will next be shown the short form notification

    * Can you tell me a little about your thoughts as you read this page?

    * What do you expect to happen next?

    * Do you have any questions?

    * Is there anything that stands out to you on this page? Good, bad, indifferent

Alright, let's continue

* Participant will next navigate to the first page of the form "Veteran information"

    * Mostly let the participant fill out the form: When I see things that are optional I skip it, I don’t know why they are on there if not required because I wont take the time to do it. This has always bothered me because I can’t remember the city I was actually born; it’s just a Tobin think or if others have that concern. I always worry I will put in the wrong thing then get kicked out. I think I have defaulted to Dallas because it is simpler. I think it is Dallas, you are raised in one city but born in another. I think this is good, this has been blue the entire time and I am still there even though I have went through other pages. I assume it is basic demographics. I think its sloppy that it shows all full.

    * Unrelated that was good: the month date, I like the prefills. I am sure it helps. Allowing to select the calendar then select 5th makes more sense.

    * The tab button doesn’t work, I would expect to be able to tab but it goes back up there.

    * Normal habit: yes

    * I like the short and sweet and quick. When I click next, it saves the information. That’s good, other than that why am I clicking so much to stay on step 1. I have clicked 5 times; I keep clicking next when I would just scroll down. If it is saving infomration then that’s a good way not to have to renter but if not then I would prefer to scroll and then click next for step two. Maybe because there are older people some may have a home phone and a mobile home. None of this is required I guess, on the other pages it stated what was require. If I wasn’t part of this and this doesn’t have required I wouldn’t have entered it even though I think you need it. I think if it’s not required don’t have it and then you don’t need the required button. It makes me think this isnt required.

    * Why is it being asked: so you can contact me so I would think it would be required.

    * Maybe I don’t think I understand. If anyone is over 50 you are getting a check, so if I click this aren’t I also this

    * What would you do: I would stay here. So because my disability is over 50 then this assures me, this tells me that the va pension is because you worked for the va. I see where its different. I realize my thought was wrong. maybe this va pension would say this does not include service disability. Just this one needs clarification.

    * Expectation: that took me like 2 minutes if we weren’t talking so I would think I have maybe 10 minutes to do this.

    * Each following step same time: yes I would assume that.

    * Thoughts: I guess I don’t see the point of this, theres 4 choices and then confirm. this seems redundant.

    * Why it was asking that question: wanting to make sure I am actually 50 percent or higher. Then earlier there were only 4 choices, the chance of selecting the wrong one would be close to 0.

    * Why did it ask for the confirmation: good point, I assume because there is healthcare benefit for having over 50 percent, you get more services so they want to ensure you should be getting it. no matter what I click it will be checked by the va. They are asking to make sure I am answering it correct, they still check it so having another step doesn’t make it easier.

    * I am on step 4, this is the only time I would, a veteran can be another event hats not retired. I understand why its being asked.  So I  now notice I only have 4 steps, I have been reduced and it makes me aware of that. Maybe someone that was 50 percent and knew if they would have a shorter application they would click that. I think that’s good that they waited to have it reduced. Then insurance, because I am retired I am like of course I do because I am retired. A lot of veterans don’t retire so they wouldn’t have Tricare.

    * Here I would just fill it out, I think it would be nice to have self or other. I think it would be the person that is filling it out would be the name of the policy holder.

    * Why confusing here: I just think it would be easier to check self. If other then have to fill it in.

    * Policy number, for retirees. I would think that the policy number is my dod number, so have clarification what my policy number would be and I have been using it for a little less then a year.

    * What would you do: I would login online to see if I can find it. if I can find it great if not I would put my Dod number. I think it would be good o only have 1 required. It took me longer to read it, I think it would say this or group number so I thought I could enter it there. I wouldn’t have entered that until I entered the policy number. I would fill it out in order instead of reading all of it first.

    * Now I review it, so I could look at it and clicking this it would expand it. I am supposed to look at this, I like the link. I don’t know how many would read it. personally I wouldn’t. then I would click submit.

    * Expect: that a screen pops up with here’s my number, you should get an email or call within the XX hours then if not having a number to call or a check status. if I don’t want people to call they submit then a link to check the status.

    * Clear expectation of time and status: Yes.

    * Make special note of how participant interacts with the green alert that talks about the short form

    * Prompt participant to interact with alert on the third or fourth page of the form if they haven't already:

**Post task questions - 5 minutes**

Wonderful! I have a few questions about what you just saw in the prototype.

**Overall**

* What did you think of the overall experience? It was short, quick to apply and I like that. That stands out to me.

* How easy: everything was easy to enter, no flags. I like the windows were good. Maybe have sub bullets we talked about. At the beginning it needed my income and expenses but I never had to enter that. Since I don’t enter it I would take that out because I don’t know I would have figured that out. Maybe I would’ve said I couldn’t apply yet but I didn’t need it. the only thing I wouldn’t have had was the policy number but that tells you in the start. It would’ve been nice for that only to be there. Everything that I entered was stuff anyone would know.

* Leave you with questions:  It does because you asked me to reflect but I wouldn’t have thought about it. If I actually looked for it then I would have been frustrated but at the end I would be done.

* Tell me about this experience in your own words, as if I was another Veteran interested in applying for health care: I would tell them, I guess you have to know your rating so you have to wait. I would tell them once they finish their rating then it took me 5 minutes and was simple so don’t call. my experience with calling is not as efficient as that.

* What did you think of this "short form" experience? The only expectation was that it was reduced from what others were doing so it is easier to process if over 50 percent. It was done quicker. So I went from 6 to 4 steps. It makes sense to me. I don’t care about the other steps I didn’t have to do, maybe that’s why I didn’t need tax or income. So if I am over 50 percent, maybe have it noted that if you are over 50 percent.

* Any other thoughts or questions for me before we conclude? No questions, no thoughts.

**Thank you and Closing**

Well we really appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us today. Your feedback is so helpful to us as we continue to improve our products and services for Veterans and service members.

Thank you so much again and enjoy the rest of your day!

 

