platform/engineering/collab-cycle/architecture-intent-template.md, before:

# Architecture Intent Template

__*** DRAFT *** DRAFT *** DRAFT ***__

The Architecture Intent meeting helps your team build a solution that meets Veteran-facing Service Platform (VSP) engineering standards and lowers the potential for launch-blocking issues later in the development cycle.

## What is the purpose of Architecture Intent meeting?

The Architecture Intent meeting is less a formal presentation and more of a discussion.  It not only provides OCTO-DE and Platform with an early understanding of the product/feature your team wants to build, but is also an opportunity to collaborate and provide feedback on the intended implementation and surface any adjustments needed to meet VSP engineering standards. The focus is on making sure your code meets user needs within the constraints of the platform your building on.

## Preparing for the Architecture Intent meeting

You should write up your Architecture Intent using the template below.The Governance Team will need at least **2 business days** to review your matierials.

## Architecture Intent Template

Your document should be brief and high-level.  One to two pages is appropriate for many changes.  Focus on the high level and link to supporting material where appropriate; this is not a detailed engineering spec.

- Product description
    + Brief overview of motivation for the change
    + Link to product doc or GitHub issue
- UX design description
    + For user-facing changes
    + Link to lo-fi prototype or wireframes
- Frontend changes
    + Identify any significant code changes
    + Describe any product analytics being gathered
- Internal API changes
    + List new or modified APIs in `vets-api`
    + Describe expected call patterns
- External API changes
    + List new or modified APIs for upstream systems
    + Describe expected call patterns
- Background jobs
    + List any required background processing
    + Describe error and dead letter handling
- Data storage
    + Describe new or modified databases, tables or columns
    + Describe indexes and constraints
    + Identify PII and PHI
- Libraries and dependencies
    + List new or updated dependences
- Metrics, logging, observability, alerting
    + Identify key areas to monitor
- Infrastructure and network changes
    + List any changes or additions
- Test plan
    + Describe automated testing
    + Describe required test data and test user accounts
    + Note any manual tests or user acceptance tests
- Rollout plan
    + List scope of any feature flags
    + Identify other teams to coordinate with
    + Describe rollback plan


## How to schedule the Architecture Intent meeting

TODO: use [Design Intent][1] as a template

[1]: https://depo-platform-documentation.scrollhelp.site/collaboration-cycle/design-intent

Commit message:

Added a "When" section.
Also added a paragraph to the template section stating that's it's okay
not to have all the answers.

Typo fixes and minor formatting changes.

platform/engineering/collab-cycle/architecture-intent-template.md, after:

# Architecture Intent Template

__*** DRAFT *** DRAFT *** DRAFT ***__

The Architecture Intent meeting helps your team build a solution that meets Veteran-facing Service Platform (VSP) engineering standards and lowers the potential for launch-blocking issues later in the development cycle.

## What is the purpose of Architecture Intent meeting?

The Architecture Intent meeting is less a formal presentation and more of a discussion.  It not only provides OCTO-DE and Platform with an early understanding of the product/feature your team wants to build, but is also an opportunity to collaborate and provide feedback on the intended implementation and surface any adjustments needed to meet VSP engineering standards. The focus is on making sure your code meets user needs within the constraints of the platform your building on.

## When to schedule an Architecture Intent meeting?

You should schedule an Architecture Intent meeting if any of these apply:

- You have questions about one or more points on the template below.
- You're having trouble locating or getting technical info from other stakeholders or system owners.
- You're using an architecture pattern not currently found on the va.gov platform.
- You plan to use a new technology, library or dependency.
- You're integrating with a new system or API, inside or outside of the VA.
- You need to coordinate your change with other teams or your change will add work or responsiblity to other teams.
- You're gathering new [PII]/[PHI] or saving PII/PHI in a new place.
- There are cost, performance or security implications to your change.

[PII]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Personal_data
[PHI]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Protected_health_information

## Preparing for the Architecture Intent meeting

You should write up your Architecture Intent using the template below.  The Governance Team will need at least **2 business days** to review your materials.

## Architecture Intent Template

Your document should be brief and high-level.  One to two pages is appropriate for many changes.  Focus on the high level and link to supporting material where appropriate; this is _not_ a detailed engineering spec.

Some of the items below may not apply to your work--that's okay.  You may not be able to fill in some items that _do_ apply to your work--that's also okay.  If you don't have answers, please come ready to ask questions.

- Product description
    + Brief overview of motivation for the change
    + Link to product doc or GitHub issue
- UX design description
    + For user-facing changes
    + Link to lo-fi prototype or wireframes
- Frontend changes
    + Identify any significant code changes
    + Describe any product analytics being gathered
- Internal API changes
    + List new or modified APIs in `vets-api`
    + Describe expected call patterns
- External API changes
    + List new or modified APIs for upstream systems
    + Describe expected call patterns
- Background jobs
    + List any required background processing
    + Describe error and dead letter handling
- Data storage
    + Describe new or modified databases, tables or columns
    + Describe indexes and constraints
    + Identify PII and PHI
- Libraries and dependencies
    + List new or updated dependences
- Metrics, logging, observability, alerting
    + Identify key areas to monitor
- Infrastructure and network changes
    + List any changes or additions
- Test plan
    + Describe automated testing
    + Describe required test data and test user accounts
    + Note any manual tests or user acceptance tests
- Rollout plan
    + List scope of any feature flags
    + Identify other teams to coordinate with
    + Describe rollback plan


## How to schedule the Architecture Intent meeting

TODO: use [Design Intent][1] as a template

[1]: https://depo-platform-documentation.scrollhelp.site/collaboration-cycle/design-intent
