# Running Design and Research Agenda

## July 25, 2024
Attendees: Rachael Penfil, Steven Straily, Lois Lewis, Mary Wang, Bo Altes, Devi Hill

### Agenda topics
- Review [10-10d UXR stakeholder readout deck](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1rneN0c0SynW1Jj_5_JuEqMKYtkbkEHLvV4n0KdCELpg/edit#slide=id.g892adcb623_0_141)
- Discuss next up research for claims
  - Beginning research plan and conversation guide next sprint
  - Concern that CHAMPVA findings won't transfer to FMP
      - On the service side, that's probably true.
      - As far as interaction for the form, findings should transfer
      - We also got a lot of info about FMP from earlier studies
- In the future - can we plug into the Claims Status tool?
- Where do we need to update beyond VA.gov? Youtube? How can we keep our business partners in the loop?
      -  We need to keep our business partners up to date - eg., chat with Brian Guenther - make call center on board, paper documentation up to date, etc.

### Decisions and action items
- Move forward with research on CHAMPVA claims research as planned
- Readout is ready to go

## July 18, 2024
Canceled - Lois OOO

## July 11, 2024
Canceled - Lois OOO

## July 4, 2024
Canceled - July 4th holiday

## June 27, 2024
Attendees: Rachael Penfil, Steven Straily, Lois Lewis, Mary Wang, Bo Altes, Devi Hill

### Agenda topics
- Review feedback on revised FMP decks
  - Keep Monday meeting title the way it is
  - Remove finding numbers
  - Update date for stakeholder readout July 3
  - Remove third bullet from slide 9 in stakeholder deck, make it a talking point
  - Add a screenshot for inline edit
  - Flip order of form usability improvement findings

### Decisions and action items 
- Address Lois' comments on the decks

## June 20, 2024
Attendees: Rachael Penfil, Steven Straily, Lois Lewis, Mary Wang, Bo Altes

### Agenda topics
- Discuss process flows/service blueprints
  - Steven presented the [skeleton](https://app.mural.co/t/departmentofveteransaffairs9999/m/departmentofveteransaffairs9999/1718652759079/9b8e9bf6a84513373bc234644531bf694d9a4f84?sender=u50b7e26ebf5d18d7d4312080) he worked on in Mural. Would keep them all in one document, rather than one deliverable per Mural.
  - Lois: it might be more than what we need. If things fit better in separate Murals, make sure there is a sticky or something telling you the other document exists. Especially if we don't want to duplicate work. Worried about too much clutter.
    - Not sure that linking between these is standard, so may want to look at other examples.
    - [Map of maps](https://app.mural.co/t/departmentofveteransaffairs9999/m/departmentofveteransaffairs9999/1691694705068/f167df3bf00da9473559b70daef763ae41c2aeaa?sender=ud64d6310f5d321d8542a2119)
      - Disability compensation blueprint is probably more than we want to do
    - Honing in on the service blueprint and workflow diagram
    - Don't know if we need info cards
- Talk through any unclear feedback for FMP readout decks
  - Monday deck: clean it up, add some visuals, and reduce size of "front matter". Change the titles of the findings to a sentence summarizing the finding.
  - Stakeholder deck: clean it up, show images/interface when can. Format quotes.
    - Slide 8 has a really long headline and lots of quotes, but instead say in words what the quotes are supporting. Heading too long. Maybe just one quote and format it so it reads like a quote, summarize them instead. Soften language, perhaps. Second quote is telling a story, which is what we want.
    - Make sure findings aren't duplicated, and tell the story associated with slide 12 and 9 associated with not interacting with FMP/using providers that will deal with it for them.
  
### Decisions and action iteams
- Incorporate feedback to two readout decks
- Start with process workflow, and then Steven's service blueprint for FMP claims

## June 13, 2024
This meeting has been canceled.

## June 6, 2024
Attendees: Rachael Penfil, Steven Straily, Lois Lewis, Mary Wang, Premal Shah, Devi Hill

### Agenda topics
- Andy is out starting next Monday until week of July 1, and the design CoP presentation isn't until July 8. With this in mind, I would to suggest that Steven and I focus on the 10-10d report this sprint and the readouts next sprint.
  - This is good to go.
- Priority: CHAMPVA claims stakeholder interviews vs. CHAMPVA user journey map. I would suggest that we focus on stakeholder interviews because we don't really know anything about the CHAMPVA claims backend systems and processes.
  - Stakeholder research: 10-7959a
  - Lois is not sure that the journey map is not as useful as a task flow map that we could get from stakeholders - that's the product and engineering need.
  - Happy to have Jamie and Syd work on the stakeholder research
  - Do we need the behavioral notes on this?
  - Focus on process. Can't change their jobs that much.
  - Will be doing 4 interivews. Will need after actions.
  - Might even want to say: we want to diagram this process.
  - Make it less formal, more conversational.
  - Include: ask probing questions about OHI, content questions, how you know there's fraud, etc.
  - Premal wants the workflow diagram. Maybe we hand off to product to do a workflow diagram while Jamie and Syd work on the larger findings.
  - Main object needs to be: how does a claim get processed?

### Decisions and action items
- Steven and I will focus on 10-10d analysis and do readout decks next sprint.
- We can start scheduling stakeholder interviews for CHAMPVA claims.
- First thing to come out of CHAMPVA claims is workflow diagram. Perhaps can be informed by what Bo and Mary have already done, if they have questions aren't on our list.

## May 30, 2024
Attendees: Rachael Penfil, Steven Straily, Lois Lewis, Bo Altes, Mary Wang, Premal Shah, Devi Hill
### Agenda topics
- 10-10d update - [analysis Mural](https://app.mural.co/t/departmentofveteransaffairs9999/m/departmentofveteransaffairs9999/1712766096062/a4141cf44d7867853fb69698ea6003aa2216d5d4?wid=0-1717015651965&sender=u3844370d13a440a7859d3526)
- July 8 FMP readout at Monday meeting / currently unscheduled stakeholder readout
- CHAMPVA claim stakeholder interviews
  - Lois: We have a prototype, we have screens. What is the goal for stakeholder interviews? We may not need the process from FMP, with full affinity mapping. 
  - Rachael + Steven: Biggest pieces of info that we're missing: service and process. How does a claim get processed? How are things functioning on the back end? What are the most common errors from the perspectives of stakeholders?
  - Lois: Wants to see a research plan.
  - Lois: Maybe use CHAMPVA Monday meeting to see who we need to talk to to answer those questions. Some of our stakeholders have changed.
- Future research: I'm wondering if it makes sense to watch forms / claims processors once we have a form in production or maybe pre-production to understand the new digital form experience from the processor perspective.

### Decisions and action items
- Work on 10-10d GH report first, then after that we can stakeholder readout
- Stakeholder readout: aim for delivering in Sprint 20.
  - 8 hours for drafts of both decks, to 2 hrs to make any changes after Lois and Premal's review
  - Shorter is better. After the first readout, two weeks later, come back with specific workshop items where we present findings and design changes and work on them together.
  - Work on research plan for CHAMPVA claims (7959a).
    - Look at the questions Syd had for 59a and see if we can roll them into stakeholder interviews, and if we even need  to ask them at all.
  - Add future research item to backlog.
