# August 15, 2023: Women Veterans business line review
*Ask VA Integration Team*

## Agenda

- Introductions
- Review AVA form fields
- Review category and topic names

## Attendees

- Our team: Becky, Tyler, Ruchi, Khoa
- Center for Women Veterans team: Ana Claudio (Global Outreach Manager for the Center for Women Veterans), Michelle Terry (Outreach Program Manager), Shannon Middleton (Advisory Committee for Women Veterans Manager)
- CRM team: Wandy, Shelby, Jaime
- Not present: Dwayne Campbell, Elizabeth Harrington, Carl Mcpherson, Missina Schallus

## Key takeaways

- It's unclear whether agents for the Center for Women Veterans team can see responses to `Tell us the reason you’re contacting us` in Dynamics. If they can see it, they're not referring to it.
> "I don't use this."

> "I don't recall seeing this. I focus more on the detailed information the Veteran provides. I'm not saying it's not there, but I don't look for this."
- If a Veteran prefers to be contacted another way (besides email), the Center for Women Veterans team will try to meet their need. But this doesn't happen often.
> "I have not encountered someone requesting that we respond via letter or telephone, but if they do ask, we would. We respond by email right now."

> "We should have this option, for example, what if a Veteran has a disability."
- The Center for Women Veterans team is interested in revamping the current topics for their category (and potentially even which types of inquiries they handle). It sounds like, right now, they're needing to do a lot of re-routing to other teams. Their focus, really, is on outreach.
- We clarified that our scope (right now) is updating the names to be consistent with content on VA.gov. But, if they'd like to amend the list of topics (add or remove) they should bring this to the CRM team. If this happens before we launch, we'll make sure we're using this updated list.

## Actions

- [ ] Becky: Confirm whether agents can see `Tell us the reason you’re contacting us` in Dynamics.
- [ ] Tyler: Learn when `How should we get in touch with you?` options are dis/abled.
- [ ] Center for Women Veterans: Discuss potential changes to topics with CRM team.

## References

- [Category, topic and subtopic proposed names spreadsheet](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1AlUqvwn49ah2gHniTwx3x0afOPliKgURo575e73OH40/edit#gid=1192783561) we reviewed in Google Sheets.
- [Form fields review (with business lines)](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1GIsq9Y6Ap9mBUL49j1Ad7tm1N_nfD0Yoxw9ThtexCMU/edit#gid=329502423) we reviewed in Google Sheets.
- [Complete meeting notes](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1y5nzZ1pDojdTjKEXu3d0eM_jxj72WrSRxaEsZOoiqkA/edit) in Google Docs.
