# ESLint Rule Changes and Testing

**Author:** Jhonny Gonzalez
**Last Updated:** February 21, 2020
**eslint version:** 4.18.2

## Overview

This is an initial process to test and deploy new rules for ESLint.

## Objective

To improve code quality in the repo by enforcing new ESLint rules.

## Background

We installed ESLint a couple of years ago in the VA repo and hasn't been updated nor improved since then.

Now, that VFS teams will have an increased ownership on their pull request reviews, this will help them getting a better judgement as well as facilitate the review process.

# Specifics

## ESLintin Procedure

The ESLinting rules in CircleCI will be used as an experimental staging area as we explore new rules and ways to communicate any issues that are discovered.

## Code Location

### ESLint main file

`.eslintrc` => located at the root folder.

### ESLint Testing file

`circle.eslint.json` => rules under review will be located here

## Plugin/New Rules Audit

Before contemplating the idea of adding a new plugin with rules, it is important to perform an audit. This audit will help us determine if the current repo is in compliance with each rule. All outstanding errors from rules must be cleared (disabled or fixed) before going into the testing stage.

VFS teams are responsible for fixing the errors generated by the rule under review. Once all the errors have been cleared, we can proceed by adding the rule(s) to the testing stage file (`circle.eslint.json`)

## Rules acceptance

All rules under review will always be considered to become enforced. However, based on feedback or complexity they can become disabled and not enforced.

## Feedback

VFS are encouraged to provide feedback from any rule that is under review. To do so, please use the tag `@frontend-review-group` or message any of the front-end tools team members in Slack and provide us with your feedback.

## Revision History

_The table below should record the major changes to this document. You don't need to add an entry for typo fixes, other small changes or changes before finishing the initial draft._

| Date              | Revisions Made | Author          | Reviewed By |
| ----------------- | -------------- | --------------- | ----------- |
| February 21, 2020 | Initial Draft  | Jhonny Gonzalez |
