**Conversation Guide: Baseline Wayfinding Research on VA.gov**

**Moderator logistics**

_Start recording to the cloud._

* **I have started recording**. I'd like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record my screen and the audio as we talk today? Yes.

**Warm-up Questions - 10 minutes**

Let's start with a few questions...

* Where do you typically go to get information and benefits from the VA? I would say I go to the, not HealtheVet that is health information, I have it wrote down at home but I am not sure the name of it. It is a website.
* Can you tell me about the last time you were looking for information or trying to do something with your VA benefits? I put in for disability and had to go to the website and login.
  * What did you want to do? I checked to see how much I was getting a month for disability, the next step to file for claim. Yes I went to va.gov.
  * How did you get started?
  * What did you do next?
  * Can you share a browser window in Zoom and show me what you did? 
    * _Where started: va.gov. I remember I had to put my password and stuff in._
    * _Results: Yes, I found it._

**Veteran Tasks**

Now I'm going to ask you to do a number of things that you may or may not have done before. Please do these tasks on your computer or phone as you normally might if I weren't here. For each task, I will stop you at a point when I feel like we've done enough, and I won't ask you to sign in.

I would like you to _talk aloud_ as much as possible so that you share what you're thinking, what you're doing, what you like, what you dislike, and what you're unsure about.

**Task 1: \[Message doctor\] - 4 minutes**

* Let's pretend that you had a doctor's appointment at the VA last week, and now you have a follow-up question for the doctor. How could you contact them?
* Could you please go to VA.gov and show me what you would do? I would put myhealthevet in if I could get to that from here.
* You could do it from here, could you try from here: Okay, I see healthcare it says refill and track prescriptions, that's what I normally do. Stuff like that. Clicks check on labs, okay.
* Follow-up question for the doctor: send a secure message is what I would do, I don't know if that is what I was supposed to do but it's what I normally do.
* Can you talk to me about how you got here?  I went back to the medicine part and saw it says send secure message.
* Looking for labs is something you've done: normally I go back to see her after labs, sometimes they are scheduled. Usually I don't see my labs through them, find out results in person at next appointment.
* How would you rate the ease of finding what you were looking for on a scale from 1 to 5, where 1 is _difficult_ and 5 is _easy_? And why? It is a 5 for that. It is right there in front of you, click here for secure messaging. Now getting answers is a bit harder but getting to that point is easy.

**Task 2: \[Track claim status\] - 4 minutes**

* Say that you've already applied for disability compensation, and you want to find out if your claim has been approved. What could you do? Check the disability, check claim approval status. just click on it.
* Could you please go to VA.gov and show me what you would do? I went to the check appeal status and clicked on it and it look me to that page.
* Went back to the home page first: yes.
* How would you rate the ease of finding what you were looking for on a scale from 1 to 5, where 1 is _difficult_ and 5 is _easy_? And why? 5 on that.

**Task 3: \[Appoint a representative to help with your claim--Find form\] - 4 minutes**

* Pretend that you just found out that your disability claim was denied and you want to appeal. You know someone who has agreed to help you with that. How would you find the form to fill out to say that you want that person to be your representative? That's a good question. I would check the same putting because it says check on claim or appeal status. I guess I would want to appeal it. I pushed the same buttons.
* Trying to find the forms: I can't find that.
* Anything else you would try: Let's see, (reading page) unless you file another claim for compensation I don't see another tab.
* Anything you might be able to use to help: it says I can upload evidence to support my claim.
* Task is you have someone to help and you need to tell the va: I don't see anything else to put on there.
* Been on here on the phone: yes but I had someone try to help me get an increase. They done most of the work.
* Something you may not have done on your own: right.
* Scroll to the top, anything you might try: (reading page), I don't see anything on that page.
* How would you rate the ease of finding what you were looking for on a scale from 1 to 5, where 1 is _difficult_ and 5 is _easy_? And why? 1 on this.

**Task 4: \[Update direct deposit\] - 4 minutes**

* Imagine that you just changed your bank. How would you update this information with the VA so that your disability compensation payments will go to your new bank instead of your old one? I would try view my payment history and see if it has my bank listed there. I am there.
* Do you see a way to do it from this page: Yes, what should I do if I need to change the direct deposit or contact information. I would change the information online.
* Next thing to do: I would sign in or create an account.
* Can you talk to me about how you got here? Directly form view my payment history page.
* How would you rate the ease of finding what you were looking for on a scale from 1 to 5, where 1 is _difficult_ and 5 is _easy_? And why? 5\.

**Task 5: \[Travel reimbursement direct deposit--R&S\] - 4 minutes**

* Now that you've updated your bank information for disability compensation, you want your travel to medical appointments to be reimbursed by direct deposit, too. How could you set that up? Mine always went through, I do it if I am at the clinic I sign for my reimbursement so it automatically goes to my checking account.
* Direct deposit already setup: yes.
* What about if you are not at the clinic: it says upload evidence so maybe that but is under disability. I would try secure and manage health appointments. 
* What are you looking for: looking for something talking about travel reimbursements. I don't see anything about travel pay.
* Anywhere else you may look: I would go back; I am not sure where I would go from there. I can't find the place where it looks like I need to go. 
* How would you rate the ease of finding what you were looking for on a scale from 1 to 5, where 1 is _difficult_ and 5 is _easy_? And why? 1 on that one.

**Task 6: \[Find a VA location\] - 4 minutes**

* I'd like you to imagine that you're planning a trip to another city, and you want to know where the nearest VA hospital is. How would you figure this out? Let's see. I would send a secure message to my health care provider for that one to see where the closest one is to where I was going. Or do I need to make an appointment.
* Anyway you may be able to see where the nearest va hospital is without sending a message to your provider: If there's a search menu I would do that. There's a search menu, I would type the city like Knoxville. It gives me cemetery locations is all. I have done this before so I know.
* Do you remember what you did: I think in the search I did the city where I wanted it to be in. right here I cant find it.
* Any other place that may help find it: I would try the health appointments; it may show a city. This says find the location for your appointments under how can the va appointments told help manage my care. If I needed to make an appointment I can through this site.
* What if you were curious where the nearest medical center was: It says for information please call 877-470-5947, I would call that.
* How would you rate the ease of finding what you were looking for on a scale from 1 to 5, where 1 is _difficult_ and 5 is _easy_? And why? One that one a 2\.

**Task 7: \[Get benefit letter\] - 4 minutes**

* Your mortgage lender has asked for proof of your income. How can you get a document that shows the income that you receive from the VA? I would go to my payment history and get a copy of that.
* How would you do that: I am on this page right now, let me read. It says I can view my disability compensation; I would do that and print off a copy of that.
* Something you've done before: Yes, I am pretty sure I have done that.
* Is this how you did it: yes.
* How would you rate the ease of finding what you were looking for on a scale from 1 to 5, where 1 is _difficult_ and 5 is _easy_? And why? 5 on that.

**Task 8: \[Get medical records\] - 4 minutes**

* You were just advised to see a doctor outside the VA, and their office asked for your medical history from the VA. How can you share that with them? That's a good question. Healthcare history let's see. On records it says get your va medical records so I would click on that and that's what comes up.
* Is this helpful: Yes.
* How would you rate the ease of finding what you were looking for on a scale from 1 to 5, where 1 is _difficult_ and 5 is _easy_? And why? 5 on that.

**Task 9: \[Update dependents\] - 4 minutes**

* Say that you just got married. How would you tell the VA about your new spouse (because it might increase your disability compensation)? Actually can that happen, I got married a year and a half ago. That's a good thing to do. Boy I don't know, change my information. There's a change of address but I wouldn't need to change that we live in the same place. I am not sure about that one.
* What are you looking for: to change records, there's ID cards. I don't think that would be it though. I am not sure about that.
* Anything else you might do on this page: No.
* How would you rate the ease of finding what you were looking for on a scale from 1 to 5, where 1 is _difficult_ and 5 is _easy_? And why? 1 on that.

**Post-Task Interview - 5 minutes**

* What do you _like_ about using the VA.gov website? I like the things I can find; they are real handy you know.
* What do you _dislike_ about using VA.gov? There are a lot of things I cant find.
* What would you like to _change_ about VA.gov? Just have more boxes of the things that I might need to use.
* What would you like in the boxes: Only real difficulty I have is signing in and out because of passwords.
* Other complications: not that I can think of.
* When you're unable to find what you're looking for on VA.gov, what do you do next? I usually call a friend that's a veteran or I talk to someone at my clinic to get additional information. It works well, they do a lot of this stuff for me.
* Is there anything else that we haven't talked about that you think I should know? No, not that I can think of.

Observer questions:

Zoom over the phone before: No.

Talking about how if you cant find someone, you call. How often do you contact the provider for help: Maybe once a month.

Is that after you try to find it: Most of the time because I couldn't find it online.

Somethings you call provider right away instead of looking: Just if it was something to do with my health.

**Thank You and Closing - 1 minute**

Well we really appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us today. Your feedback is so helpful to us as we continue to work on improving the VA website.

Thank you so much again and enjoy the rest of your day!
