**Conversation Guide: Baseline Wayfinding Research on VA.gov**

_Start recording to the cloud._

* **I have started recording**. I'd like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record my screen and the audio as we talk today? Yes Ma'am.

**Warm-up Questions - 10 minutes**

* Where do you typically go to get information and benefits from the VA? I use va.gov a lot of times but I also call the 800 number and I guess if I don't feel comfortable with that prior to covid I went to the DAV facility and asked them
* Can you tell me about the last time you were looking for information or trying to do something with your VA benefits? IT was at va.gov and there is a program where you pre-qualify for va burial. SO that's what I was looking at and still in the process. I went to va.gov and also called to confirm what I read was true. Which the website talks about it and was very details but they gave the number to call so I called to confirm we needed to do preapproval.
  * Can you share a browser window in Zoom and show me what you did? I am not quite familiar with zoom yet but I have used it a few times. Using tablet. I was at the va site but when I hit the bottom it wont allow me to share. Oh there it is.
    * _Where started: va.gov, I went to va benefits and then burials and memorials. Then pre-need burial, where I am at right now talks about everything and then there's the number I was talking about._
    * _Read then called to confirm: correct._

**Veteran Tasks**

Now I'm going to ask you to do a number of things that you may or may not have done before. Please do these tasks on your computer or phone as you normally might if I weren't here. For each task, I will stop you at a point when I feel like we've done enough, and I won't ask you to sign in.

I would like you to _talk aloud_ as much as possible so that you share what you're thinking, what you're doing, what you like, what you dislike, and what you're unsure about.

**Task 1: \[Message doctor\] - 4 minutes**

* Have you always used a tablet: I have also used a phone
* Let's pretend that you had a doctor's appointment at the VA last week, and now you have a follow-up question for the doctor. How could you contact them? I think I would hit menu, find va location, let's see. Then it brings my address so I would choose the facility, va health. Yes then of course it brings up clinics. I am scrolling down because I did all health services and it brings up the clinics.
* What are you looking for: I am looking for either the \[clinic name redacted\] clinic. I am saying that is I am assuming they would have it but 90 percent of appointments are at \[clinic name\] because that's where my primary care is. I also go to the va hospital.
* How would you ask the doctor the question: I would call the number and leave a message for them to call back. If it mental health, the number here. I like that the number is separate because it makes a difference especially if you have an urgent issue.
* Is there a way to ask the question without being on the phone: You can. I am not sure how to do that yet. It is coming on board where you can message them but I don't know how you do that yet. I am looking for it here but I don't see it yet.
* Back to va.gov: contact us, ask us a question online, contact local va, (reading page) I am missing it, I don't see where you can actually contact. Oh healthcare, here send va secure message to health care provider. Then it should the instructions on how to do it.
* What would you do at this point: well I would sign in or create an account if I didn't have one.
* How would you rate the ease of finding what you were looking for on a scale from 1 to 5, where 1 is _difficult_ and 5 is _easy_? And why? I would say 5 because it only took a few seconds to figure it out. Once I saw where it said send a message it was easy to figure out from there. I think even someone not computer savvy if they were searching they would find it.

**Task 2: \[Track claim status\] - 4 minutes**

* Say that you've already applied for disability compensation, and you want to find out if your claim has been approved. What could you do? I would think you can go back, home, disability right here. From the home page you scroll and disability then check your claim or appeal status. I would click on that. Then again it would have you sign in or create an account.
* How would you rate the ease of finding what you were looking for on a scale from 1 to 5, where 1 is _difficult_ and 5 is _easy_? And why? Again 5, it is very easy.

**Task 3: \[Appoint a representative to help with your claim--Find form\] - 4 minutes**

* Pretend that you just found out that your disability claim was denied and you want to appeal. You know someone who has agreed to help you with that. How would you find the form to fill out to say that you want that person to be your representative? Since I am here at check va claim or appeal status I would go there, keep going down and it should be (reading page) okay let me go back. (reading page) Unless I missed it. I would think here where check va claim or status they would have somewhere here where the form is that you would need to submit.
* Looking for the form: oh okay. (reading page) I don't know unless you would hit contact. Resources and support. (Reading Page) I think at this point I would call to ask how to get my representative. Clicked contact us, I would again I was looking for the other ways to get answers from va, I would call or send a message here to see how to get a personal representative.
* How would you rate the ease of finding what you were looking for on a scale from 1 to 5, where 1 is _difficult_ and 5 is _easy_? And why? This one here because it took me longer and I don't see that specific form on how to ask for my personal representation. I would say a 3\.
* I'd like you to go to another page, which I've put the link to in the chat 
  * Can you try using this page to help with the task? Types va representative for appeals. (reading page) okay this is file a disability claim. That is all about getting help with filing a claim but nothing about appeals.
  * Can you go back to what you typed to search and try something else there: how do I get a representative for VA assistance. I may not be asking the right questions. I wonder if I need to say medical assistance or disability assistance. 
  * Under find a va form (Reading page): so this is only for forms then, right
  * Is that what you think: yes. From what I am seeing. I do know when I put in key words, it did bring up forms but not what I needed.
  * What about typing fewer words rather than a questions: disability representative. Okay so now let's see when I did disability representative the second one down is for a VSO and then the third is for an individual.
  * If you already know who it will be: Oh, actually that would be one of these because it would be asking for the individual to represent you. I would think the 21-22a.
  * How would you expect to get to this page from va.gov? If I were doing this I would click search and do forms. I don't see forms under healthcare and benefits.
  * Based on what you now know, where do you want it: Under menu and have a forms menu there or a search. Again if you are not computer savvy they may not know. When I went to search and typed forms it brings up 1000 forms so I think I want a specific forms drop down.
  * Expect to go to menu and see find a form: yes. They could lump them all together under va forms then have it listed by the name or whatever it is then under the form listed have the breakdown into medical/disability or whatever it is.

**Task 4: \[Update direct deposit\] - 4 minutes**

* Imagine that you just changed your bank. How would you update this information with the VA so that your disability compensation payments will go to your new bank instead of your old one? again I am scrolling down and it talks about. Go to menu. Hold on one second, back to homepage. Search change banks. Let's see if that works. Change you va direct deposit information. That was simple again it makes sense to just use the search bar and I typed in change banks.
* How would you rate the ease of finding what you were looking for on a scale from 1 to 5, where 1 is _difficult_ and 5 is _easy_? And why? 5\.

**Task 5: \[Travel reimbursement direct deposit--R&S\] - 4 minutes**

* Now that you've updated your bank information for disability compensation, you want your travel to medical appointments to be reimbursed by direct deposit, too. How could you set that up? Lets see. Types into search- direct deposit travel reimbursement. It brings up travel pay reimbursement so I assume you would go there and set it up. I would go to va travel, (reading page) that is all about filing it but it doesn't really say for direct deposit.
* How would you rate the ease of finding what you were looking for on a scale from 1 to 5, where 1 is _difficult_ and 5 is _easy_? And why? I would say a 3 because I am not exactly finding what I am looking for. I might not be using the right words but I would think for you should be able to put in direct deposit reinterment. Maybe I needed to use different words but I think it would be there.
* I'd like you to go to another page, which I've put the link to in the chat 
  * Can you try using this page to help with the task? Okay so other topics and questions, how to set up direct deposit for va travel. I assume I would click on that. (reading page) it shows step by step, set up with va, the from, find  local travel office, open a bank if needed. I would definitely use that.
  * How would you expect to get to this page from va.gov? Again let's see, from the home page a resources button would be there under menu. Again I didn't know it exists like the forms. I didn't know how to get to it. I guess common sense to. The search bar, types in resources and support doesn't bring it up right away. When I put resources, I expected to see the page I am on. Instead I got a whole slew of va topics.
  * Back to that page, when you searched for resources and support, did you see anything: That's what I was looking for. It brings up 1000\. Oh yeah the very first one. Then it brings be to the same page.
  * Didn't notice that: no I did not.

**Task 6: \[Find a VA location\] - 4 minutes**

* I'd like you to imagine that you're planning a trip to another city, and you want to know where the nearest VA hospital is. How would you figure this out? Again go the menu,. Then find va location. Vet centers, okay.
* What city might you want to visits: so let's say we are going to Miami, Fl. Then look for va health. Yup, I would do that. The city, stats and pick the facility or services and scroll down to see which you wanted or which was closest.
* How would you rate the ease of finding what you were looking for on a scale from 1 to 5, where 1 is _difficult_ and 5 is _easy_? And why? 5\.

**Task 7: \[Get benefit letter\] - 4 minutes**

* Your mortgage lender has asked for proof of your income. How can you get a document that shows the income that you receive from the VA? Go to menu first, benefits and healthcare. Go to homepage, search menu- proof of income. I first looked under menu and maybe I am not looking at the right thing but I don't see it. lets do proof of income statement. This one I am not sure how I would find it.
* How would you rate the ease of finding what you were looking for on a scale from 1 to 5, where 1 is _difficult_ and 5 is _easy_? And why? I would say maybe a 2, maybe if I keep searching.

**Thank You and Closing - 1 minute**

Well we really appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us today. Your feedback is so helpful to us as we continue to work on improving the VA website.

Thank you so much again and enjoy the rest of your day!
