**Conversation Guide: Baseline Wayfinding Research on VA.gov**

_Start recording to the cloud._

* **I have started recording**. I'd like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record my screen and the audio as we talk today? Yes.

**Warm-up Questions - 10 minutes**

* Where do you typically go to get information and benefits from the VA? I usually go to va.gov.
* Can you tell me about the last time you were looking for information or trying to do something with your VA benefits? It was actually around December for education benefits for the va, it may have been a little before that the last few months have ran together.
* In a study: Yes.
* Any other time for yourself: I had been doing follow up research for va loans so I wanted to find out the restrictions for va home loans. I think around December, to refinance. That was the last time.
  * Can you share a browser window in Zoom and show me what you did? Where did it go. I think I had to search loan eligibility. There we go, then I clicked the second on to va backed loans. I remember looking to see if there were any information on the homepage but had to do a search.
    * _Results: I did find it, it brought me to this page. I am trying to remember I saw the warning for refinancing because it was interesting. I realized it didn't apply for what I was looking for so I went back and then clicked on va home buying process. So I went looking through this when we went through the process a few years ago and I ended up calling the mortgage company we used the first time and they walked me through it. I thought we had a great rate the first time but this time it was even better._

**Veteran Tasks**

Now I'm going to ask you to do a number of things that you may or may not have done before. Please do these tasks on your computer or phone as you normally might if I weren't here. For each task, I will stop you at a point when I feel like we've done enough, and I won't ask you to sign in.

I would like you to _talk aloud_ as much as possible so that you share what you're thinking, what you're doing, what you like, what you dislike, and what you're unsure about.

**Task 1: \[Message doctor\] - 4 minutes**

* Let's pretend that you had a doctor's appointment at the VA last week, and now you have a follow-up question for the doctor. How could you contact them? Okay. so I would go back to the va main page and look for va benefits and health care. Then look to see it. I would click send a secure message to healthcare team then I would assume that once I was signed in, I could see my doctor's name and send them a message
* Done before: No, I don't have a va doctor.
* How would you rate the ease of finding what you were looking for on a scale from 1 to 5, where 1 is _difficult_ and 5 is _easy_? And why? I would say about a 4 because the va healthcare tab is at the top. If you aren't scanning quickly it is easy to see.

**Task 2: \[Track claim status\] - 4 minutes**

* Say that you've already applied for disability compensation, and you want to find out if your claim has been approved. What could you do? I would go to the home page and there are 4 highlighted tabs in the middle. It says disability then click on check claim or appeal status. Then sign in and see if my claim has been approved.
* How would you rate the ease of finding what you were looking for on a scale from 1 to 5, where 1 is _difficult_ and 5 is _easy_? And why? That is a 5, it is pretty easy. Bright colors and bold print standout a lot.
* Back one page, what do you mean: the bright colors on the homepage, then the tasks are all highlighted. I didn't notice the first time but I noticed when I went back and there are icons to direct my attention. Didn't notice when you asked about sending message to a doctor.
* Because you used the top tab: right.

**Task 3: \[Appoint a representative to help with your claim--Find form\] - 4 minutes**

* Pretend that you just found out that your disability claim was denied and you want to appeal. You know someone who has agreed to help you with that. How would you find the form to fill out to say that you want that person to be your representative? I would click on check claim or appeal status then scroll down. I would scroll to more questions and once I did not find the information, I would call the va to ask for help.
* What if you wanted to do it yourself, anything else you could do: Let's see. Clicks file a claim, from that page I would file after you file your claim and that page gives information about what to do if I disagree, learn about decision review options. From here I would click message us and ask a question online instead of calling into the VA. Plus scrolling down after you request decision review, click on that to see what is there. Here we go manage appeal or review, check that status. It isn't showing me the information I think it would.
* What did you expect: More information about how to directly add support documents to my appeal or get information for who I want to be an arbiter on my account, I might have to sign in for them to do that.
* How to find out the form: At the top there is the search function, types in form claim representative. Forgetting there is a search function by typing in the key words, sometimes I use google. It doesn't always click to use that. It is a last resort option. When all else fails use the search function. So this is the screen it took me to. Looks like the Lincoln memorial. It is a secured page. This computer is new and does a google update.
* Try search again: yeah that looks more like what I expected to see.
* What at this point: So from what I found it looks like it is form va 21-22\. Let's see here. Looking through, get help filing claim or appeal. That is the first one.
* What do you see: it took me to the page to get help filing your claim or appeal, it provides the description of people that could help then I see the benefits which it looks like it will take me to ebenefits for the form to add a representative for my claim.
* If someone said there was a form, is there something you would do: how would I set up a representative to work on my behalf. There is a form here that is a PDF, so I click on that. This is for a VSO as a representative. So not an organization or a person working for them but a specific person. 21-22A it looks like. It was the next form.
* How would you rate the ease of finding what you were looking for on a scale from 1 to 5, where 1 is _difficult_ and 5 is _easy_? And why? I would say this is about a 3.5 just because my first instinct wasn't to search for the form direct if it were I would have gotten here faster.
* How so: doing the search.
* I'd like you to go to another page, which I've put the link to in the chat 
  * Can you try using this page to help with the task? Types in va 21-22a, there is pops right up.
  * How would you expect to get to this page from va.gov? Right on the top line by find a va location with a link to find forms. It would take you to the page, if you know the form number it will take you right to the form you need.

**Task 4: \[Update direct deposit\] - 4 minutes**

* Imagine that you just changed your bank. How would you update this information with the VA so that your disability compensation payments will go to your new bank instead of your old one? That's a good question. First I would go to view payment history under disability.
* Could you please go to VA.gov and show me what you would do? Then the information I need is what should I do if I need to change my direct deposit information, one for online which I would click on, then there is information how to change the information. 
* Can you talk to me about how you got here? 
* How would you rate the ease of finding what you were looking for on a scale from 1 to 5, where 1 is _difficult_ and 5 is _easy_? And why? I world at this a 5 because it is straight forward.
* How did you know to go there: Because payments there either withdraw or deposit goes into my bank account so I instinct think it would be there or be able to get to it from there.

**Task 5: \[Travel reimbursement direct deposit--R&S\] - 4 minutes**

* Now that you've updated your bank information for disability compensation, you want your travel to medical appointments to be reimbursed by direct deposit, too. How could you set that up? I would go to va benefits and healthcare. I was looking under healthcare to see if there was something about travel. So maybe schedule and manage appointments I click on. Then looking through here to see if there is anything related to reimbursement for travel. I found get travel pay, va travel pay reimbursement. Then there is instruction on how to file a claim and a hot link on setting up direct deposit for va travel pay reimbursement and I clicked on that and it takes you to va form 10091\.
* No medical through the va: no.
* How would you rate the ease of finding what you were looking for on a scale from 1 to 5, where 1 is _difficult_ and 5 is _easy_? And why? I would rate it about a 3 because the main reason when you set the task I had no idea what you were talking about.
* I'd like you to go to another page, which I've put the link to in the chat 
  * Can you try using this page to help with the task, would it had been helpful: Yeah at the bottom of the page, the hotlink I clicked on is highlighted under other tops and questions.
  * How would you expect to get to this page from va.gov? So the easiest way would be at least a heading for it on the main screen. That way if you are screening that page you click on resources and it takes you to this page.
  * Where would you put it or want to see it: I would put it right here at the top on the right hand side. I would put it there instead of the bottom because if I see it on the top, when I scroll down and cant find it then I know to go back to the top. I know I am inpatient so if it is at the bottom it won't catch my eye so it would alleviate a lot of frustration. Don't normally go to the bottom: correct, I would just use the search function but I just scrolled and there's a tab and it goes to the same page.
  * Same as find a form: how would the positioning be: The resource would be right under sign in and the forms could be right next to it. find a form right beside va location then a resources link at the top as well.
  * Label resources, meaningful: For me that's enough. I would be more likely to start there then scrolling down the page
  * Search a last resort, how do you feel about the resources link: I would go to resource before a search
  * Other resource website links: I work in college athletics and in our dropdown had the sports teams, then it has a list of forms and other helpful things if you are looking for the visitors guide because you are a parent from a visiting team and looking for somewhere to eat.
  * Familiar place: yes.

**Task 6: \[Find a VA location\] - 4 minutes**

* I'd like you to imagine that you're planning a trip to another city, and you want to know where the nearest VA hospital is. How would you figure this out? I would click on find a va location. If I was going to Jacksonville, FL. I would click on urgent care and click search and it would bring them all up if there was on in a city. It gives me a map of all of the facilities in Jacksonville.
* How would you rate the ease of finding what you were looking for on a scale from 1 to 5, where 1 is _difficult_ and 5 is _easy_? And why? That was pretty easy, I would give it a 5\.

**Task 7: \[Get benefit letter\] - 4 minutes**

* Your mortgage lender has asked for proof of your income. How can you get a document that shows the income that you receive from the VA? So I would go back to the main page, then I would go to find forms and types in VA income. I would use the 21p-527 income, net worth statement. Nope that's not enough, that is an application for pension. So I would change the parameters, payment received by va. I am drawing a complete blank.
* Maybe go back to va.gov, is there something that can help you here: Download benefit letters under records. View va payment history. That's it. Reading page.
* Have you done this before: No.
* What were you trying, went to download letters then found payments, thinking path: my hope was that it was payments being made to me found in the letter. I was right so I kind of guessed.
* Benefits letters mean to you: It is similar to a financial award as a student would get from a college in their financial aid package so that was my parallel for that
* Never happened as a veteran: No.
* How would you rate the ease of finding what you were looking for on a scale from 1 to 5, where 1 is _difficult_ and 5 is _easy_? And why? I would give that a 3.5 because it wasn't hard. I made it more difficult than it really was. That's the story of my life. I would probably be more patient when looking at the page. Normally it is easier to click the link because it is more commonly used rather than going on a wild goose chase. Better to search the page for the information.

**Task 8: \[Get medical records\] - 4 minutes**

* You were just advised to see a doctor outside the VA, and their office asked for your medical history from the VA. How can you share that with them? On the main va page under records you can click on get va medical records, I would start there. Under the first line online tool (reading page). I would scroll down to see if that is the information I need. I think that's the place I would go.
* How would you rate the ease of finding what you were looking for on a scale from 1 to 5, where 1 is _difficult_ and 5 is _easy_? And why? That's a 5, it was pretty easy.

**Task 9: \[Update dependents\] - 4 minutes**

* Say that you just got married. How would you tell the VA about your new spouse? I would go back to the main page, what I am looking for is a place I can update my profile. Clicked on service member benefits, but that's not what I want. I scroll to the bottom and under more va resources, I would click on forms here. I type in spouse under keywords. It pulls up forms that aren't exactly what I am looking for so go to family member benefits. This triggered something: I went to the va forms typed in spouse and it brought up surviving spouse. It showed a line for family member benefits but that's for someone that was married beforehand. That wasn't what I was looking for. I am surprised under records you could change the status there.
* Expect it around records: yes because adding a spouse would change the beneficiary related to everything so that's why I expect to find it there. I feel like now it should be in my face and I am just not seeing it.
* Anything else you could do: Search add dependent. So add depend to va disability benefits. There's a hot link to add dependents and a 21-686c form to add dependents or remove them.
* Assuming there was a from: yes and you can but you would need to find it from the find forms page.
* Search is last resort then tried search: I have a habit of doing it backward, it's how my brain works. It's like a puzzle I like to try and find it that way instead of going right to the search function because I might find other things.
* How would you rate the ease of finding what you were looking for on a scale from 1 to 5, where 1 is _difficult_ and 5 is _easy_? And why? That is about a 4\.

**Post-Task Interview - 5 minutes**

_Type into \#feedback-backchannel: "Any questions you want me to ask?"_

* What do you _like_ about using the VA.gov website? I think for the most part the website is pretty intuitive. It gets to be trickier if you are looking for something specific but most websites are like that. You can find how to get to most places and if you can then there's the search function tog et all the way there.
* What do you _dislike_ about using VA.gov? I wouldn't say I dislike it; I mean personally general websites are challenging because not everyone thinks the same way. If I don't think the same as the web designer then it is frustrating. It isn't their fault. I didn't dislike anything., I spent to much time rushing because I am scanning to fast. The site is user friendly.
* What would you like to _change_ about VA.gov? Just adding the forms and resources link at the top of the homepage.

**Thank You and Closing - 1 minute**

Well we really appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us today. Your feedback is so helpful to us as we continue to work on improving the VA website.

Thank you so much again and enjoy the rest of your day!
