**Conversation Guide: Baseline Wayfinding Research on VA.gov**

_Start recording to the cloud._

* **I have started recording**. I'd like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record my screen and the audio as we talk today? Yes

**Warm-up Questions - 10 minutes**

* _(if using a screen reader)_ How would you rate your level of experience with using a screen reader--beginner, intermediate, advanced, or expert? Yes in the past. Intermediate.
* _Using one today: No._
* _Are you able to see it well enough you don't need it all the time: Right._
* Where do you typically go to get information and benefits from the VA? Va.gov and then I go through Myhealthevet. it is Myhealthevet blue where I login and my medication.
* Myhealthevet: exactly.
* Can you tell me about the last time you were looking for information or trying to do something with your VA benefits? Thursday of last week, it is a blessing I just got an increase. I really don't want to tell my story because when I go in. I was assaulted in the military and I have been going through this for years and just got an increase.
  * What did you want to do? Always looking for information, I was looking for dental. It is crazy I had an appointment it my doctor. Because of covid it has taken me 11 months to get with my doctor. I made 8 appointments. I have been trying to contact my psychiatrist, just found out that I don't have one and getting a new one. It was a nightmare.
  * When do you use a screen reader and when don't you: I have astigmatism in my eyes. Sometimes when I have my headaches, if I have been on my system too long, it helps assist me.
  * Not now: no I was prepared.

**Veteran Tasks**

Now I'm going to ask you to do a number of things that you may or may not have done before. Please do these tasks on your computer or phone as you normally might if I weren't here. For each task, I will stop you at a point when I feel like we've done enough, and I won't ask you to sign in.

I would like you to _talk aloud_ as much as possible so that you share what you're thinking, what you're doing, what you like, what you dislike, and what you're unsure about.

**Task 1: \[Message doctor\] - 4 minutes**

* Let's pretend that you had a doctor's appointment at the VA last week, and now you have a follow-up question for the doctor. How could you contact them? I would go to schedule and manage my health appointments. Then I would send a secure message and it would come up with a screen what type of message and who to contact. Listen to me good, my va has two locations but my main va is in \[city\], the main va in \[city 2\] is my main va but my physicist is a mile down the road. When I schedule it asks which appointment then shows me 4 different location. Then it gives me the radius of my address and that's the post office which is ten miles further than my residence. I would need to login. okay right here, I would click use secure messages. It is pretty much the same but a different aspect.
* How would you rate the ease of finding what you were looking for on a scale from 1 to 5, where 1 is _difficult_ and 5 is _easy_? And why? 4, because it gives you about 6 different location that's just out of my reach.
* When you have to pick the location: exactly. You have to pick the location to send a secure message. It will ask 15 things and I forget the one they should put on there. They have eye care they should add dental and sleep apnea.

**Task 2: \[Track claim status\] - 4 minutes**

* Say that you've already applied for disability compensation, and you want to find out if your claim has been approved. What could you do? Then I would sign in like we did then click check appeal status right here.
* On va.gov from there: Disability, first one at the top. Check appeal status.
* How would you rate the ease of finding what you were looking for on a scale from 1 to 5, where 1 is _difficult_ and 5 is _easy_? And why? That's a 5 since they upgraded it. Let me give you a timeframe, this was precovid, September of 2019 when they upgraded the system with the fast lane and DVA and add records. I have in 8 appeals and probably have 17 things that is wrong with me, they remanded it. I have PTSD, tinnitus, 15 other things that are being done. Then this Friday for c&p exam. You got the right person today.

**Task 3: \[Appoint a representative to help with your claim--Find form\] - 4 minutes**

* Pretend that you just found out that your disability claim was denied and you want to appeal. You know someone who has agreed to help you with that. How would you find the form to fill out to say that you want that person to be your representative? I have attorneys I have been working with for 4 years. I find out before they do because they mail all correspondence and I am always on here checking my claim then email them the updates. I let everything go through them but if I wanted to do it I would, that's a great questions. Download benefit letter.
* Expect: the letter they expect in the appeal. The number letter I can download it but my printer is messed up so I can't print so I have my attorney mail it to me. If I want to change my attorney I would do that in the disability and appeal section. When I check my appeal it shows the issues and then asks if I want to upload the information, it has their information, that screen I can find my attorney. I haven't had to use it
* What about the form: if you ask me it would still be in the letter screen. I have seen it but haven't had to sue it. let's try it now. If I couldn't find it I would call and have them walk me through it I have had to do that. It has been a nightmare with travel pay.
* How would you rate the ease of finding what you were looking for on a scale from 1 to 5, where 1 is _difficult_ and 5 is _easy_? And why?
* I'd like you to go to another page, which I've put the link to in the chat 
  * Can you try using this page to help with the task? Wow I didn't even know they had this you can put in the form name or number. I have been lost trying to find a form. I just google it if you know the number it comes right up. I didn't know they had it on the site. I would add the form number or name. I had to build a case and needed an attorney., it was a racial thing. They tried to cover it up, they tried to kill me. I had the state representatives involved. It was intense. They even hid the police file. If I had the name I would do that or put in the number. I would probably just go to home right here. I have seen the page but it was so long ago.
  * How would you expect to get to this page from va.gov? Great, great. Oh wow. I had to get that in order to get in the system. Once you are in the system it is much easier.

**Task 4: \[Update direct deposit\] - 4 minutes**

* Imagine that you just changed your bank. How would you update this information with the VA so that your disability compensation payments will go to your new bank instead of your old one? It is crazy because we were just talking about travel. You can do that in payment history. I haven't changed my banking; we keep up with the money. I saw it, pretty much everything you are going over I have seen but its been awhile. Change information online or contact the office, change of address. Change the information online.
* How would you rate the ease of finding what you were looking for on a scale from 1 to 5, where 1 is _difficult_ and 5 is _easy_? And why? 5 and I give you a 5\. Don't get me started.
* Knew where it was because it was done recently: No, what happened was I was checking. I just got my benefits; you have to go into the va and you go to the va site. I found out that I can view my payment history and it will show you your rating in payment history and the pending amount that will be posted. I knew like 5 days prior. I let my attorney know 2 weeks before he got the letter. I didn't know what my increase was then I monitored it and one day. This is how this go. Say for instance, they need to change that, to find out my va rating, what I do is I google it, then they have a link that shows you when it logs in it goes to the screen. I don't know how to get to the screen if already on the system. It will show your rating and it shows you your payment history. But if you go on the system already it doesn't show it.
* When do you go to google: when I am burnt out. Sometimes I call the 800 number, they transfer you, then the switch board transfers you and 99 percent of the time you get a VM. You do better setting appointments online with notes in there and since covid it was slower but they would get back to you within 3-4 business days. If you leave a message it might be 6 months before they call you back. I was going through a lot and my psychiatrist. I had her personal number, office number, the longest she would go is 48 hours. When I didn't hear form her in 11 months I was praying she was okay, I built a good relationship with her
* Calling takes a long time: it is a nightmare and then if you schedule online and don't put details. I called in left 6 messages, scheduled online. Why they call me every other day for the last 90 days to get a covid shot but cant return my calls for my medical issues because I need my medication. Instead they leave messages about the shot but I've been trying to get a hold of them for my medication.
* When google: for the forms, also when I wanted to find my rating. A few little tweaks.

**Task 5: \[Travel reimbursement direct deposit--R&S\] - 4 minutes**

* Now that you've updated your bank information for disability compensation, you want your travel to medical appointments to be reimbursed by direct deposit, too. How could you set that up? I have all of the records, I put packets together, standard. Sent it to them, speak with them and they were real ugly. My own reason is going to headquarters in \[city\]. They have 3-4 people process 100K payments and it only goes out at certain times and they want you to send it in weekly. I was doing that and I still never got my payments and fought for 6 months then said the hell with it. it was only $100 and I said the hell with it. Then I lost my mom and she said be nice so I am trying. It says get travel pay but I don't even remember. You can submit it, especially when doing it third part. Just like my exam, since covid and prior to covid they outsource to much. They bombard you with letters, 5 letters for an appointment and call 20 times. But when I call, I can't get nobody.

**Task 6: \[Find a VA location\] - 4 minutes**

* I'd like you to imagine that you're planning a trip to another city, and you want to know where the nearest VA hospital is. How would you figure this out? That's a great question, I would google to make it simple. Let see, the only thing I think is if I schedule an appointment and it comes up with. You gotta search it. if they had that screen I would just google to make it simple.
* You can google it: I would say va hospital in \[city\] and there's only one. Simple, that's what I would do. What it is the regional office use to be the old hospital my dad used to go there. They redid it and its nice. I had to go there a few times but the cash office needs to close. Down there I guess that's the old hospital. The one in \[name\] street is real old. I would do schedule and manage health appointments and it would show the appointment I know they didn't have dental and something else let's see. (reading page) I guess access and quality in va healthcare. It was me I would just go and schedule so they ask the care then the facilities.
* How would you rate the ease of finding what you were looking for on a scale from 1 to 5, where 1 is _difficult_ and 5 is _easy_? And why? 3

**Task 7: \[Get benefit letter\] - 4 minutes**

* Your mortgage lender has asked for proof of your income. How can you get a document that shows the income that you receive from the VA? That's a great question because I am foreclosure as we speak and I don't even want to go into the details with that crap. That's worse than travel pay. Let me see. I don't even know where I was, I guess that's apply for va healthcare also. That's I could think. I have seen it. they give you the complete run around, call this office that office, they aren't in then ask if you are familiar with purple knights. Then send you here then finally get called back and then they tell you need to get inline and you're 25K in line. Anyway.

**Post-Task Interview - 5 minutes**

_Type into \#feedback-backchannel: "Any questions you want me to ask?"_

* What do you _like_ about using the VA.gov website?
* What do you _dislike_ about using VA.gov?
* What would you like to _change_ about VA.gov? everything. Like I said where to begin. They should have a thing are you going to be homeless, put a link. If you are in a question why does it ask do you want health system. I could give you 9,000 things. Like travel pay, have you been compensated. Girl, I am sorry.
* Want travel page: travel page, rental assistance, housing assistance, have it set up personalized for each veteran. It is a lot of tweaks. Homeless, travel, find my rating.
* Disability rating: Yes. Simple question what is my disability rating instead of having to google then go back in and not find it and have to go through payment history, what is so sad is one is myHealtheVet. I can't remember but it goes back to the old system and if you don't have a premium account you can't login. It is aggravating

**Thank You and Closing - 1 minute**

Well we really appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us today. Your feedback is so helpful to us as we continue to work on improving the VA website.

Thank you so much again and enjoy the rest of your day!
