**Conversation Guide: Baseline Wayfinding Research on VA.gov**

_Start recording to the cloud._

* **I have started recording**. I'd like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record my screen and the audio as we talk today? Yes that's fine.

**Warm-up Questions - 10 minutes**

* _Caregiver: You can say that. I am within a veteran advocacy group; my 4 brothers and sister were in the service. I was scheduled to go in but I had an accident and went blind instead. I care very much for veterans and like to help them anyway I can_
* _Work with a number of veterans: I am with \[department\], I am like their computer guru, they are blind as well. I have helped with computers._
* _Access for va services : No I am more with the technical side. I like working with computers and assistive technology._
* _Who do you work with: Blind people mostly._
* _Blind veterans: I have always wanted to, being a member of fire and protect I have helped maintain his computer._
* _(if using a screen reader)_ How would you rate your level of experience with using a screen reader--beginner, intermediate, advanced, or expert? Advanced.
* do you typically go to get information and benefits from the VA? No.
* family member: yes all 5 siblings. The last one was lost in Vietnam.

**Veteran Tasks**

Now I'm going to ask you to do a number of things that you may or may not have done before. Please do these tasks on your computer or phone as you normally might if I weren't here. For each task, I will stop you at a point when I feel like we've done enough, and I won't ask you to sign in.

I would like you to _talk aloud_ as much as possible so that you share what you're thinking, what you're doing, what you like, what you dislike, and what you're unsure about.

**Task 1: \[Message doctor\] - 4 minutes**

* have you seen this page before: I don't think so.
* Let's pretend that you had a doctor's appointment at the VA last week, and now you have a follow-up question for the doctor. How could you contact them? I would go to schedule and manage health appointments. This is user friendly for the screen reader. I this the first time I have seen the webpage so I would like to look around a bit. I tend to like to call someone to make appointments. I obviously can't sign on right. I think I saw it on there. I am not sure what secure messaging means. It looks like I would have to sign in no matter what. Clicked find a VA location. I always like to go to contact us.
* Secure message, don't know what is it, tell me more, what could it be: I have the feeling I would need to be signed in for secure messaging. It is between me and the doctor or whoever I need to contact, it would be very private but I would need to be signed in.
* How would you rate the ease of finding what you were looking for on a scale from 1 to 5, where 1 is _difficult_ and 5 is _easy_? And why? I like this webpage pretty much; I would say it is a 4\. There isn't many graphics and the screen reader can use the links to get to what I am looking for.
* Earlier, user friendly, tell me more about that: Yes. The screen reader has issues sorting out graphics and reading them. I didn't test the headings and stuff but you can use all letters in a web browser and the screen reader can react differently so when you are educated in that and headings. It seems to work; my first impression was that it works pretty good.

**Task 2: \[Track claim status\] - 4 minutes**

* Say that you've already applied for disability compensation, and you want to find out if your claim has been approved. What could you do? Let me try the headings. Right there . the first heading disability, check your va claim or appeal. Okay so it says find out how to but you need to sign in.
* How would you rate the ease of finding what you were looking for on a scale from 1 to 5, where 1 is _difficult_ and 5 is _easy_? And why? 4 because it seems to be basic as a webpage. It looks like it has been worked on for screen readers already.

**Task 3: \[Appoint a representative to help with your claim--Find form\] - 4 minutes**

* Pretend that you just found out that your disability claim was denied and you want to appeal. You know someone who has agreed to help you with that. How would you find the form to fill out to say that you want that person to be your representative? I think I would need to go into something here. You are looking for a form to make an appeal. I am having trouble with this in.
* What is 3575 on the screen reader: that is the number of links on the page. Upload evidence to support the claim. I was hoping it would be under this page here. File additional forms for your disability claims.
* Looking for a form to say a person you know is going to be your representative in the appeals case: An accredited claims representative. Okay so I am not sure about this one.
* If you are looking for something and can't find it, what would you do, is there something that can help you: search and types, representative. Is this the one I am looking for here. It sounds like it. Okay, so I can download it.
* How would you rate the ease of finding what you were looking for on a scale from 1 to 5, where 1 is _difficult_ and 5 is _easy_? And why? That's a 3\. Well when I have to search for something, what I am used to on my own computer I always have notes open. Like a notepad so I know exactly. I get very analytical. We are just talking so what I am looking for, I need to have the exact words. We found it this way and that's fine. I normally take notes and organize it so I can find it
* What would you have put in note pad: the form number and the exact words. Working without the notes and verbally it wasn't that easy but would have been easier if using the notepad.

**Task 4: \[Update direct deposit\] - 4 minutes**

* Imagine that you just changed your bank. How would you update this information with the VA so that your disability compensation payments will go to your new bank instead of your old one? I think I would have to be signed in to do it. View your va payment history. Clicks change your information online. Okay.
* How would you rate the ease of finding what you were looking for on a scale from 1 to 5, where 1 is _difficult_ and 5 is _easy_? And why? That's a 4 I think. This is all my opinion but if you are familiar with the website already I think it would be a lot easier.

**Task 5: \[Travel reimbursement direct deposit--R&S\] - 4 minutes**

* Now that you've updated your bank information for disability compensation, you want your travel to medical appointments to be reimbursed by direct deposit, too. How could you set that up? Clicked schedule/view va appointments. Clicks get travel pay. Okay.
* Finding anything on how to set up direct deposit for travel pay: I would also bookmark this. 
* Tell me more: I would go to the address bar and copy it then put it under the line if I need to go there. I found out that I am eligible for the reimbursement so I would go there.
* Copy it to where: into my note pad.
* _RECORD did they find the "How to set up direct deposit for VA travel pay reimbursement" article in R&S? _yes
* How would you rate the ease of finding what you were looking for on a scale from 1 to 5, where 1 is _difficult_ and 5 is _easy_? And why? I would say 3, I don't think that is a normal thing so you would need to look for it anyways. I think that is pretty easy.

**Task 6: \[Find a VA location\] - 4 minutes**

* I'd like you to imagine that you're planning a trip to another city, and you want to know where the nearest VA hospital is. How would you figure this out? Went to find va locations. Types in 14568, chooses va healthcare, all services and enter. Okay.
* How would you rate the ease of finding what you were looking for on a scale from 1 to 5, where 1 is _difficult_ and 5 is _easy_? And why? 4\. Very user friendly. Is this for all veterans or blind veterans. I am totally blind. This test.

**_\[no time for tasks \#7-9\]_**

**Post-Task Interview - 5 minutes**

_Type into \#feedback-backchannel: "Any questions you want me to ask?"_

* What do you _like_ about using the VA.gov website? It is pretty easy to use, I like the search feature, home feature. Its pretty friendly. There is a home link at the top, no matter where you are, you can go home.
* At the beginning used back button: yes, I am learning about the site as we go.
* What do you _dislike_ about using VA.gov? Nothing beside that I cannot sign in.
* What would you like to _change_ about VA.gov? I just can't wait for the COVID popups to stop, I understand them because of the website. It is a pain for my screen readers.
* Each time it reads it: Yes, it pops up every time.
* Thoughts of things you noticed in terms of the screen reader that is easy or not so easy to navigate: no it seems pretty friendly like I said. This is the only one I tried it with is JAWS or NVDA. JAWS is job access with speech.

Ever use NVDA? from time to time. When my computer starts it tells me what is going on and if there is an issues with JAWS. I have don't remote access with both.

You started JAWS and might move to the other: yes.

* When you're unable to find what you're looking for on VA.gov, what do you do next? Search or contact us.
* Clicked on contact us at one point: yes.
* How do you prefer to contact: By phone. Sometimes depending on the website have chats on there. JAWS may not be set up to work with chat within the website.
* Phone more reliable: yes, clear communication.
* Is there anything else that we haven't talked about that you think I should know? I don't think so.

**Thank You and Closing - 1 minute**

Well we really appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us today. Your feedback is so helpful to us as we continue to work on improving the VA website.

Thank you so much again and enjoy the rest of your day!
