**Conversation Guide: Baseline Wayfinding Research on VA.gov**

**Moderator logistics**

*Start recording to the cloud.*

-   **I have started recording**. I'd like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record my screen and the audio as we talk today? Yes. 

**Warm-up Questions - 10 minutes**

Let's start with a few questions...

-   Where do you typically go to get information and benefits from the VA? To the va.gov website. 
-   Caregiver of the veteran: Veteran myself. 
-   Can you tell me about the last time you were looking for information or trying to do something with your VA benefits? Actually I was on the website last week looking to transfer my benefits to my kids because I had transferred when active duty but when I retired I use 1 month of benefits but they kept telling me I had remaining months so I was trying to figure out who had which months left so I told them to use the months. The va system in email connect had them with a certain amount of months, they had emailed me which had the months. They systems were not matching so I had to speak with someone that could help me because the first person did not have the correct information. 
-   Email connect: milconnect is how you transfer benefits and that's how the va knows who has which months. Milconnect and email connect don't talk to each other. It showed one thing and the va had something else.
-   Va had something different, where: I called the VA, actually I went to VA.gov and typed in my question. They replied by email which my dependents and the months. Then when I went to mil connect, the email that had the breakdown was different then mil connect. Two different numbers were showing up. 
-   Va.gov question, email back and different information: exactly 
-   Calling resolved it: yes, it did
-   Couldn't do it by yourself: correct, the data was different. One kid with 5 months in va and mil connect said 2 months. Then I checked Friday on my va claim. 

-   What did you want to do? Va disability claims 
-   How did you get started? Went to disability and check you claim and appeal status. I signed in first then did that same thing. 
-   What did you do next?
-   Can you share a browser window in Zoom and show me what you did? Do you want me to login from my phone. 

**Veteran Tasks**

Now I'm going to ask you to do a number of things that you may or may not have done before. Please do these tasks on your computer or phone as you normally might if I weren't here. For each task, I will stop you at a point when I feel like we've done enough, and I won't ask you to sign in.

I would like you to *talk aloud* as much as possible so that you share what you're thinking, what you're doing, what you like, what you dislike, and what you're unsure about.

**Task 1: [Message doctor] - 4 minutes**

-   Let's pretend that you had a doctor's appointment at the VA last week, and now you have a follow-up question for the doctor. How could you contact them? That's a good question, I would go to that same page and click on healthcare. Then go and see if there is something I am trying to do, send a secure message to my health care team. Then scroll through here
-   What next: I would either do a message by logging in or call this number. My HealtheVet help desk and ask them how I would ask a question to my provider. 
-   Might call or login and send a message, which would you do on your own: IF it were something I needed immediately I would call that number to see if I could speak to someone right then, if it is not urgent I would send a message. 
-   How would you rate the ease of finding what you were looking for on a scale from 1 to 5, where 1 is *difficult* and 5 is *easy*? And why? I would say 5, it was pretty easy. 

**Task 2: [Track claim status] - 4 minutes**

-   Say that you've already applied for disability compensation, and you want to find out if your claim has been approved. What could you do? Click menu, then disability, check my claim. Check my claim status, it will tell me to login so I would login. Then if it says it was approved when I did this the other day. I don't know if va.gov and benefits is the same thing, I don't know if they are. Because when I go to va.gov it tells me pending but then ebenefits has a different screen when I go to my claims status.
-   Same information as va.gov or different: it is the same thing but a different format and a screen that you have no percent as this time whereas this screen is the status. 
-   eBenefits doesn't tell the status: it says the same status but you have 0 percent at this time because it hasn't ben approved. I visit it frequently. 
-   How would you rate the ease of finding what you were looking for on a scale from 1 to 5, where 1 is *difficult* and 5 is *easy*? And why? 5 because I have been doing it on a weekly basis since February. 
-   When you applied: yes. 

**Task 3: [Appoint a representative to help with your claim--Find form] - 4 minutes**

-   Pretend that you just found out that your disability claim was denied and you want to appeal. You know someone who has agreed to help you with that. How would you find the form to fill out to say that you want that person to be your representative? I am guessing it would be in the same area for disability so I would go there to start. Then I would scroll to see if it has what I am looking for, there is it request a decision review or appeal. I have to make sure there's nothing else on the screen for me. Decision review options, 
-   Looking for the form that you want a representative: More information, I am good at calling and talking to person on the phone. If I scroll and can't find it, I look for a number. I would call that number to see where the form is that I need.
-   Typically call if you cant find it: Yes because then I start to get frustrated. 
-   How would you rate the ease of finding what you were looking for on a scale from 1 to 5, where 1 is *difficult* and 5 is *easy*? And why? 1

**Task 4: [Update direct deposit] - 4 minutes**

-   Imagine that you just changed your bank. How would you update this information with the VA so that your disability compensation payments will go to your new bank instead of your old one? Let's go to the menu, pension. Change your direct deposit information. To change the bank, Yup I would go right there to sign in to change the direct deposit information online. 
-   Can you talk to me about how you got here? I went to the menu and it talks about payments so I think it is under pension so I click on it and scroll through the options and the last one is to change direct deposit information so I click that and scroll through to see what it is talking about and it ahs sign in to change the direct deposit information. 
-   How would you rate the ease of finding what you were looking for on a scale from 1 to 5, where 1 is *difficult* and 5 is *easy*? And why? It was easy, I would say 5. 

**Task 5: [Travel reimbursement direct deposit--R&S] - 4 minutes**

-   Now that you've updated your bank information for disability compensation, you want your travel to medical appointments to be reimbursed by direct deposit, too. How could you set that up? I laugh because I didn't know that you were reimbursed until I got checks in the mail for going to the exams. It was talking about payments for travel so I go to the same screen to see if it there. What I normally would do is click on the tabs to see if there is anything there for travel reimbursement. If not I would go to healthcare because it was dealing with healthcare, I do not see it in there so I would go back to the home page and search travel reimbursement and see what it gives me. Click on it to see what it says. Then I see file a va travel pay reimbursement. Click on that. 
-   By direct deposit: I guess once I am at this site and login I would put my bank information in for where I want it deposited. 
-   Checks in the mail currently: yes they were checks in the mail. I guess once you download the form, fill it out, I don't see anything about bank information though.
-   Anything else you might try: I would go back to my trusty system of calling. Right there, I would call to find out. 
-   How would you rate the ease of finding what you were looking for on a scale from 1 to 5, where 1 is *difficult* and 5 is *easy*? And why? I would say it was about a 2, I got somewhere in the area of it. 

**Task 6: [Find a VA location] - 4 minutes**

-   I'd like you to imagine that you're planning a trip to another city, and you want to know where the nearest VA hospital is. How would you figure this out? I would go to my home menu to start, click find va locations. Then system the city and state into the box. The va health center. There we have it. 
-   How would you rate the ease of finding what you were looking for on a scale from 1 to 5, where 1 is *difficult* and 5 is *easy*? And why? It was pretty easy, 5. 
-   How you got here: I went to menu and I looked to see, I was going to click on healthcare but I saw find a va locations.
-   Have you used it before: No
-   How you normally find it, menu button: Yes. The menu button has became my friend. Yes, normally when go to va.gov I go to the menu button to figure out what I am trying to find. If I go to va benefits then education it goes to my Gi bill. Or when getting set up for benefits I went to benefits to enroll.
-   When you use va.gov how often are you on a phone vs other devises: I do it from my phone because it is handy like if I am out and about I can search it right then. 
-   First time you dii it, did you find the button yourself: I figured it out myself. 

**Task 7: [Get benefit letter] - 4 minutes**

-   Your mortgage lender has asked for proof of your income. How can you get a document that shows the income that you receive from the VA? Well let's see. Go to menu, you said payment history. Maybe it is under pension. View va payment history. (reading page) right there so I would sign in from here
-   Have you done it before: No. I take that back, I went to ebenefits where it has your payment history. 
-   Can you talk to me about how you got here?  Well I asked if it was payments from the va so I just assume it has to do with pension because that's money. I clicked on that and scrolled through to se what they talk about and it has view va payment history. Under that section it has the payment history you can see when you sign in. I wanted my disability and pension payment history. 
-   How would you rate the ease of finding what you were looking for on a scale from 1 to 5, where 1 is *difficult* and 5 is *easy*? And why? It was easy so I would say 5. 

**Task 8: [Get medical records] - 4 minutes**

-   You were just advised to see a doctor outside the VA, and their office asked for your medical history from the VA. How can you share that with them? To share the va medical history, go to the menu, healthcare because it is about healthcare, go to healthcare, then to share medical history I scroll through and see what there is. You said to share medical records. I would click on one of these that may be related, I clicked about va healthcare benefits to see if it has records.
-   Anywhere else you might look: I would go to the search button and type in medical records. Request medical records, no I don't see anything. I would be at a lost, oh lets go to records. Get your medical records. (reading page) I see it talks about sharing the medical records, there's sharing options. There you go
-   What next: click the sharing options page. Then it tells you if I wanted to opt out I fill out the form. I want to share my records. So it says I don't need to do it, the va will do it with whoever is part of my care team but if I don't want it done I need to fill out that form.
-   Sharing it with an external doctor: at this point I would go back to the screen prior with the numbers to call with questions and I would call. 
-   Go back a page, what did you click on: get va medical records. 
-   I just want you to take a look once more to see where you went and if there's anything else that may be helpful to you: I read that then went down here for medical exchange. Then it has if you want to share the information with community providers, visit that page. 
-   There because sharing with outside people: yes. 
-   How would you rate the ease of finding what you were looking for on a scale from 1 to 5, where 1 is *difficult* and 5 is *easy*? And why? I would say this is about a 2. 

**Task 9: [Update dependents] - 4 minutes**

-   Say that you just got married. How would you tell the VA about your new spouse 
-   Could you please go to VA.gov and show me what you would do? I would go back to the menu, let's see. Dealing with my marriage and adding spouse so that would be a family member benefit. Let's see what's in there. I am looking to see all of the options in this page. (reading page) So I don't see anything there, I would go to spouse and dependent benefits. (reading page) 
-   What are you looking for: something like a form that says add dependents. I clicked on more resources, nope. Back to the menu, lets go to records, nope. Back to menu, nope. Go to search, type add dependents. Clicked on the link. It tells me when I should add a dependent to my benefits, then it tells me to go to ebenefits to add. I would click on the green button then login. I have been there as well. 
-   How would you rate the ease of finding what you were looking for on a scale from 1 to 5, where 1 is *difficult* and 5 is *easy*? And why? I would say about a 3, it wasn't right there as a topic that you can pull form the menu. Once you go to the search bar and it tells you that you need to do it that way. You have to search but you get to it. not right in front of your eyes. 

**Post-Task Interview - 5 minutes**

-   What do you *like* about using the VA.gov website? It has the menu button, which is helpful, it breaks it into the main topics. Benefits, healthcare, and compensation. They are main topics then when you go to the topic it gets difficult because it is not as specific. You need to know exactly what you are looking for and how it related. The elderly may not always relate the payment history to pension. It wouldn't be as obvious for them to go to that tab. 
-   For you: For me, the menu is very helpful because I can go to the big category and it has everything so If looking for the 9/11 Gi bill I go to education. 
-   What do you *dislike* about using VA.gov? When you are looking for changing dependents, I would think that would eb under family member benefits. It's probably in there but I couldn't see it. it doesn't pop out to you.
-   Expect it there: me I think it would be under there. 
-   What would you like to *change* about VA.gov? see how the screen has drop down menus. Maybe they should have the dame for service member and family member benefits like they do for healthcare. 
-   Why: like for healthcare I know what I am looking for something with labs. I go to healthcare then labs. If I do that for family member benefits, I know I am looking for survivor benefits it would be under there as a tab. There's no tab in the home menu which someone may look for so then where do I need to go to. 
-   Other sections broken down so you can choose: yes. With family member benefits it's like okay what am I here for and you need to scroll to find out if it is even on the page or not. 
-   Experience to the page: After I go to this page. I clicked on secure message. 
-   Family member section was long and hard to find what looking for, what's this screen lie: when you go through here and see secure message, I was looking at communicating with a pr4ovder. Maybe the family page could have it like this page with the same questions as how do you send a secure message. They have the questions there and then options below.
-   This method appeals more because of the question: yes.
-   Other changed: I wish all systems talked together and had the same information. When I talked to the post 9/11 rep she kept having to go to different screens to see what the screen said compared to the other. I know there's va is different than milconnect. If they could talk it would be helpful.  
-   When you're unable to find what you're looking for on VA.gov, what do you do next? If I don't find it in the search box, I go back to google and I type what I am looking for in google and choose an option. 
-   When do you do that vs phone number: so when I go to google and it comes up with what I am looking for I go to the website to see if it is there. If it is not what I am looking for then I call or if it is confusing I will call. 
-   Didn't really see what you were looking for, can you try to do a google search (medical records): I typed in sharing my va records and it took me back to the same page as before. This is when I would call, it is sending me in circles. I am back at the same spot as before. 
-   Is there anything else that we haven't talked about that you think I should know? No, I think so far using it the past 6 months the times I have used it I have been able to find what I am looking for. The only time I had to call was when it was dealing with my post 9/11. 
-   Last 6 months, not registered before: I was active duty, I just registered. 
-   Benefits different in service: yes. 

Observer questions:

**Thank You and Closing - 1 minute**

Well we really appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us today. Your feedback is so helpful to us as we continue to work on improving the VA website.

Thank you so much again and enjoy the rest of your day!
