**Conversation Guide: Baseline Wayfinding Research on VA.gov**

_Start recording to the cloud._

* **I have started recording**. I'd like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record my screen and the audio as we talk today? Go ahead.

**Warm-up Questions - 10 minutes**

* Where do you typically go to get information and benefits from the VA? VA.gov.
* Can you tell me about the last time you were looking for information or trying to do something with your VA benefits? Its been a while back, I had a bill for $1300 and I didn't know where it came from or what it is for. I had no way of knowing. I didn't know to look it up on .gov thing.
  * What did you want to do? Well I called and about 4 calls later I got a lady that was trying to help me. She sent me a written request to deny the claim or something like that.
  * After the calls, did you get what you needed: She sent me the paperwork to do. I did it and \[wife's name redacted\] said she was going to put it in there but I haven't heard back.

**Veteran Tasks**

Now I'm going to ask you to do a number of things that you may or may not have done before. Please do these tasks on your computer or phone as you normally might if I weren't here. For each task, I will stop you at a point when I feel like we've done enough, and I won't ask you to sign in.

I would like you to _talk aloud_ as much as possible so that you share what you're thinking, what you're doing, what you like, what you dislike, and what you're unsure about.

\*\*Spent 40 minutes assisting in screensharing\*\*

**Task 1: \[Message doctor\] - 4 minutes**

* Let's pretend that you had a doctor's appointment at the VA last week, and now you have a follow-up question for the doctor. How could you contact them? We are looking at va homepage. Top at healthcare, background white with blue underline areas.
* Little pictures: a doctor bag with white cross on it.
* What next: I would send a secure message to the health care team.
* How would you rate the ease of finding what you were looking for on a scale from 1 to 5, where 1 is _difficult_ and 5 is _easy_? And why? It's not hard to find when you get to the right spot, 5\.

**Task 2: \[Track claim status\] - 4 minutes**

* Say that you've already applied for disability compensation, and you want to find out if your claim has been approved. What could you do? Check your claim and appeal status.
* Where: it is the top under disability with a page turned under in red.
* How would you rate the ease of finding what you were looking for on a scale from 1 to 5, where 1 is _difficult_ and 5 is _easy_? And why? 5, it was easy.

**Task 3: \[Appoint a representative to help with your claim--Find form\] - 4 minutes**

* Pretend that you just found out that your disability claim was denied and you want to appeal. You know someone who has agreed to help you with that. How would you find the form to fill out to say that you want that person to be your representative? I have no idea. Can you read that or is it too small. It's too small. Probably upload evidence to support the claim
* Too small, what was that: I can read the disability part but the blue I need to really sight in on it and it is hard to read. It is blue on white.
* When using a computer due to use something you are: I have my best glasses on now. That's how I have to read it, concentrate on each little spot. Hard to read
* Black is easier: sometimes it is, yes. The disability part is easy. I can read that without glasses.
* Upload evidence to support the claim: (Wife's name is \[redacted\]) On back to the homepage under disability benefits then the big part is upload evidence to support claim and it goes on to tell you that you can continue to upload new evidence. It is in black and white and I can read it much better. Small letter and all. Main page issue with blue letters.
* iPhone: it is an iPad 8 so it is a little bigger.
* Do you see a way to fill out a form to say you want a representative: Probably the one that says how to upload evidence to support my claim. Or what type of documents should I upload to support. It provided medical records, letter. If I can upload it online to appeal. Then tells you to go to direct download tool which you would take pictures of the documents I suppose.
* Any way you can explain to the va that you have someone to represent you: supporting statements could be from people that know about you or that you've talked to about the medical condition and when or how it happened.

Participant question: we looked on va.gov account and it had a wrong address and it was in the wrong place within 10 miles. So we were looking at how we find community care. When we worked with that the address was completely wrong. We changed it with the va but don't know if they will keep that. We are going to the VA in June and will take everything that has even us so many problems. We choose \[location redacted\] and they act like they can't let us go there, it is in a 4 mile thing and with extra miles they've added on its closer. We go early in the morning. We go and face the sun then go home and face the sun, it's not safe for us old people. The facility doesn't have parking, over crowded and can't get anything done.

**Thank You and Closing - 1 minute**

Well we really appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us today. Your feedback is so helpful to us as we continue to work on improving the VA website.

Thank you so much again and enjoy the rest of your day!
