**Conversation Guide: Baseline Wayfinding Research on VA.gov**

_Start recording to the cloud._

* **I have started recording**. I'd like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record my screen and the audio as we talk today? Yes.

**Warm-up Questions - 10 minutes**

* Where do you typically go to get information and benefits from the VA? Do you mean if I have a need, medical nee or just information. If it is a medical need I go to myhealthevet and send a secure messages to my primary care or psychologist. If I heard something from someone else I might be missing out on I will google it and if a government link comes up I will do that.
* Can you tell me about the last time you were looking for information or trying to do something with your VA benefits? Its been about a year or so and I was on the va website trying to put in a claim for myself.
* Which website: va.gov.
  * What did you want to do?
  * How did you get started?
  * What did you do next?
  * Can you share a browser window in Zoom and show me what you did? Sure.
  * On a phone: I am.
    * _Where started: I go to va.gov. I went to file for va disability increase. Then after reading all of this, I can't remember which one. I believe I clicked on find out what evidence you would need for your claim. I can click on that if you would like. I believe it is what I did before but it provides information on what they look for so I wrote all this down. Then my wife and I went through and clicked on all of these and read them. For all of the ones like PTSD and secondary connected claims we read all of that before clicking let's get start on filing a claim. _
    * _Then what: I clicked file online like this, then I would need to sign in to start. Once I started going through the documents they were telling me it would take a long time and anything submitted or missing a page that isn't on the normal list would get kicked back. I did have one kickback; it was a form that they hadn't updated the website with and I talked to someone that went through someone to get it put in so that's what I did instead of doing it myself_
    * _Company your friend did: Yes._
    * _Help you get it done: Yes._
    * _Not on here: No, I didn't. this is the first time I have been on since then._
    * _Worried about time or doing something wrong: correct_
    * _Other issues: Not issues I had but once I talked to others and they told me the horror stories about who they need to talk to and print out records and if you don't have them then you need to contact the district so I needed to talk to them to get it sent in. there were steps I didn't know about that all of the others knew about. When I first went through and heard their extra things I thought there had to be an easier way and that's when my gold buddy told me_
    * _Which organization, apply to va but they handled it: yes. It was a veteran founded organizations and they have been through it and know they changes that have been made and are on top of it_
    * _Didn't know until your friend: I had heard of them but ones that charge money to do so. If there was a way I could do it on my own I would but how intricate the va is with claims it is a nightmare._

**Veteran Tasks**

Now I'm going to ask you to do a number of things that you may or may not have done before. Please do these tasks on your computer or phone as you normally might if I weren't here. For each task, I will stop you at a point when I feel like we've done enough, and I won't ask you to sign in.

I would like you to _talk aloud_ as much as possible so that you share what you're thinking, what you're doing, what you like, what you dislike, and what you're unsure about.

**Task 1: \[Message doctor\] - 4 minutes**

* Let's pretend that you had a doctor's appointment at the VA last week, and now you have a follow-up question for the doctor. How could you contact them? I would go to myHealtheVet and click on the link. The website itself doesn't look user friendly but I have used it so much. It is good they have sign in and register at the top. I would sign in right there will id and password then it comes up with pharmacy and health records. I click messages and it had the dropdown I click on like my Phys doctor and sleep clinic. Any of the ones I have been in the past, each of them are listed so I would click on the doctor. It is like an email, there are boxes to check for an appointment or question but I click questions and type in my message about the medication so I could research it. then send it. it is normally the nurse or assistant that gets it and writes back within 24 hours with an answer or will call me to schedule.
* Asks again: on va.gov send a secure message right there. It tells me I need one of these, I have them. I would just need to sign in here and it would take me back to myHealtheVet to do the same thing.
* You go direct: yes.
* How did you get to myhealthevet quickly: I just went to my browser and searched for it and it popups right there.
* How would you rate the ease of finding what you were looking for on a scale from 1 to 5, where 1 is _difficult_ and 5 is _easy_? And why? I would say 5, I just think why do they need to have another. I feel like when I go to the va everyone is saying login to myHealtheVet nothing ever comes up about va.gov so I never really need to go there. If I didn't have myHealtheVet then it would be easy to find on va.gov. it has prescriptions, lab results, and is easy to find.

**Task 2: \[Track claim status\] - 4 minutes**

* Say that you've already applied for disability compensation, and you want to find out if your claim has been approved. What could you do? I would come to va.gov, check your claim or appeal status under disability.
* Could you please go to VA.gov and show me what you would do? I think I have done this before but it has been awhile. It looks different I don't know if it been changed. It would make me sign in.
* How would you rate the ease of finding what you were looking for on a scale from 1 to 5, where 1 is _difficult_ and 5 is _easy_? And why? Still 5\.

**Task 3: \[Appoint a representative to help with your claim--Find form\] - 4 minutes**

* Pretend that you just found out that your disability claim was denied and you want to appeal. You know someone who has agreed to help you with that. How would you find the form to fill out to say that you want that person to be your representative? First I would look under disability, its not under there . I don't see it. I would go t0o the search bar and type in, appeal representative. Okay, this just gives me a list of different websites with those words. I would go through there and read the blurbs for them to see if I can find it. right here it says under ebenefits under manage benefits, it has request or find a representative to help so I would click that and need to sign into ebenefits. VA representative.
* You don't need to select you already have one, where would you find the form: I forgot about that. Okay use this va form if you want a veteran service organization, no. I don't think I see it. I would end up looking though all of these to see. You know what if that were the case I wouldn't go to va.gov I would google it. I would google va form for representing appeals.
* Okay try that: okay so veteransappeal.com okay va form or personal appeals representative. There we go. So I would look at 21-22a. then it takes to me va.gov. it was easier on google than va.gov. Yeah.
* How would you rate the ease of finding what you were looking for on a scale from 1 to 5, where 1 is _difficult_ and 5 is _easy_? And why? Find it or finding it on the site, I would say it was a 4\. It wasn't hard once I narrowed down what I needed
* Not obvious on va.gov: google helped, correct.
* I'd like you to go to another page, which I've put the link to in the chat 
  * Can you try using this page to help with the task? types in personal appeals representative, I think this is it 21-22 no, yeah so it is 21-22a. okay and there is the PDF. I think it is the same one.
  * Thoughts on this way: I wouldn't mind this. If I didn't know about find forms, I never knew before but it would be a lot easier.
  * How would you expect to get to this page from va.gov? I clicked on the menu button then put va benefits and healthcare. It would be disability, not seeing it. If they had it under menu, if one of the boxes where like find a va location but have find a form. I know 99 percent of the time they talk about the form and it is what it is. They have to find it to fill out. If they had find a form box that would be fantastic.

**Task 4: \[Update direct deposit\] - 4 minutes**

* Imagine that you just changed your bank. How would you update this information with the VA so that your disability compensation payments will go to your new bank instead of your old one? I would come down here, click on view payment history because it might have my information or a place to change it. if it shows my payments it should have a point once I sign in to give the option to change it.
* What if it did not: here we go change your information either of these ways. I would click change your information online.
* Signing in but found it lower on the page: Yes.
* How would you rate the ease of finding what you were looking for on a scale from 1 to 5, where 1 is _difficult_ and 5 is _easy_? And why? I would say a 4\. It wasn't in my face but it wasn't hard to find.

**Task 5: \[Travel reimbursement direct deposit--R&S\] - 4 minutes**

* Now that you've updated your bank information for disability compensation, you want your travel to medical appointments to be reimbursed by direct deposit, too. How could you set that up? I honestly don't know. I would think that it would automatically update it, I would probably screw that up if it isn't automatic where they will put it into the account where my disability is at.
* Expect if it's changed in one place it's changed for all: Yes.
* Assume that's not the case, how would you do that: I would go back to the beginning, search change travel reimbursement deposit. I would do that. Okay so the first one. Yeah right here learn how to set up for direct deposit. Okay so that's good it has get va form that you can access or you can go to the travel claim portal. This lists everything that I will need right here.
* How would you rate the ease of finding what you were looking for on a scale from 1 to 5, where 1 is _difficult_ and 5 is _easy_? And why? I would say it was a 4 as well. It wasn't easily on the main page but searching for it, it popped up.
* I'd like you to go to another page, which I've put the link to in the chat 
  * Can you try using this page to help with the task? Right here how to set up for direct deposit travel reimbursement. That was easy.
  * Impression: it is good, it breaks it down to exactly what you need. If I need life insurance or going to school or burials it is listed to where it would take me. It makes sense. It is fairly easy. 
  * Like the list of different items here: Yes.
  * How would you expect to get to this page from va.gov: I would assume it would be a drop down box on the bar instead of search, it should say resource with a drop down of all of the highlighted ones if you're looking for education and training it would take you to it like a resources tab
  * Expect it to be a dropped down with list of topics then the other lines below: well a drop down with he bold topic and click that to take you to the to the articles.
  * Find a form, under menu, why recourses next to sign in and find a form under menu: I think resources, most of the webpages have a resources tab that is fairly accessible. Even putting resources in menu would work as well. IF I come to a page and done see it I will go to the menu button to see where else I can hot key to get what I need.

**Task 6: \[Find a VA location\] - 4 minutes**

* I'd like you to imagine that you're planning a trip to another city, and you want to know where the nearest VA hospital is. How would you figure this out? I would google the city, but va hospital near Tampa, Florida in the search bar. Then boom.
* How on va.gov: I can try. Let me see. Find a va facility, regional office, or cemetery. Okay, city state. Then va health and search. Yup, there is a list of all the stuff.
* How would you rate the ease of finding what you were looking for on a scale from 1 to 5, where 1 is _difficult_ and 5 is _easy_? And why? Oh I would put it as a 5, it was right there I just had to look for it.

**Task 7: \[Get benefit letter\] - 4 minutes**

* Your mortgage lender has asked for proof of your income. How can you get a document that shows the income that you receive from the VA? That I think I would immediately go to ebenefits for because it shows my benefits. Right under records, download my benefits records. That was easy to find as well.
* How would you rate the ease of finding what you were looking for on a scale from 1 to 5, where 1 is _difficult_ and 5 is _easy_? And why? I think it would be a 5, it was easy to find.

**Task 8: \[Get medical records\] - 4 minutes**

* You were just advised to see a doctor outside the VA, and their office asked for your medical history from the VA. How can you share that with them? I think I saw that before, click get my va medical records online and hit the veteran health information exchange. Yeah VHIE page. Okay, again reading this I guess I would click on sharing options,
* What do you think: it tells me, it shows the act it came from and the hyperlink. I wouldn't click that because I don't want to read the act. Okay, so this is confusing because it gave me the option to opt out and opt back in but unless I am missing how to initiate it. Does this mean they automatically do it, I don't see the option. I guess I would click on the act of 2018, no. I wouldn't know how to set it up initially. It is only showing me the forms to opt out or back in unless it would be the same. I guess I would use this form.
* Does this form look like it does that: No. Nope.
* Anything else that could help you: I think sharing options is what I clicked on. Click learn more. (reading page) that is for the exchange tea, I would click here to see if they are a partner. If they are not I would click on the hyperlink and it brings be back here. Let's go to the ehealthexchange.
* Back to the records page, top of the page, is there anything that you might see on the page: What is blue button, reading page. Okay trying to get my outside doctor to view my medical records by using the va system. Oh okay, once I sign I would go to view my medical records and I can either print it or email it to them. I am not sure how that works. I would go to myHealtheVet. That is what I would do.
* If you sign in here: right here I would my signing into myHealtheVet because it gives an option to sign in with myHealtheVet so that's what I would do. I think I misunderstood the questions.
* How would you rate the ease of finding what you were looking for on a scale from 1 to 5, where 1 is _difficult_ and 5 is _easy_? And why? I would give it a 4 because it would just be me getting my medical records by signing in with myHealtheVet.

**Task 9: \[Update dependents\] - 4 minutes**

* Say that you just got married. How would you tell the VA about your new spouse? I would go to disability. No. (reading page) I don't see it on here so I would search adding a spouse. Okay so add dependents to disability benefits. So I would click on that.
* Assume you already get the compensation: oh right here I go to ebenefits to add. I would go there and sign in and add or remove a dependent.
* How would you rate the ease of finding what you were looking for on a scale from 1 to 5, where 1 is _difficult_ and 5 is _easy_? And why? I would put it on a 4 because I had to search for it but it wasn't difficult.

**Post-Task Interview - 5 minutes**

_Type into \#feedback-backchannel: "Any questions you want me to ask?"_

* What do you _like_ about using the VA.gov website? I like how it is through, if it has to do with the va you will find it here period.
* What do you _dislike_ about using VA.gov? I don't like how it is laid out, it may be an aesthetic thing or whatnot. But that's my personal opinion.
* Tell me more: Everything screams government websites because of my time in and dealing with DMV, this is no different. When you go on here it could be something you may get it solved or spend 2 hours looking for in in a rabbit hole. It is hard to explain but if you go to Starbucks there's a coffee, here it is just this stuff. Here's all the links and things like that. Well there's a nice picture there. I just don't think it is aesthetically pleasing.
* Just words here but pictures on the others: yes. And the vaccine, they are pushing it hard on people.
* COVID in general: yes and the vaccine. Vaccine specifically from the va. Anytime talking to the doctor or getting an email it is telling me to go get the vaccine
* Reaction to seeing this: I see it and yuck. Then I move past it.
* Don't feel like something you want to be told about: yes or ever by the va. They have hammered the anil. They have killed a horse with it already. It is important for those that want or need it. whatever
* Information you don't want: correct.
* What would you like to _change_ about VA.gov?
* When you're unable to find what you're looking for on VA.gov, what do you do next? Google. I will be honest, if I have a question about the va or need something I go straight to google and it if is on the va website I will click on it but I don't go to the va.gov first. Google is quicker and makes more sense because I have the bar there and type in the question instead of going to va.gov then searching.
* Is there anything else that we haven't talked about that you think I should know? I don't think so.

**Thank You and Closing - 1 minute**

Well we really appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us today. Your feedback is so helpful to us as we continue to work on improving the VA website.

Thank you so much again and enjoy the rest of your day!
