**Conversation Guide: Baseline Wayfinding Research on VA.gov**

_Start recording to the cloud._

* **I have started recording**. I'd like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record my screen and the audio as we talk today? Yes.

**Warm-up Questions - 10 minutes**

* Veteran or caregiver: Both
* Who are you a caregiver for: Another veteran.
* Where do you typically go to get information and benefits from the VA? Online at veterans.gov I think. Yes, va.gov.
* Can you tell me about the last time you were looking for information or trying to do something with your VA benefits? I got on there yesterday to try to find out why he isn't getting travel pay. We have 6 pending and haven't been paid for anything.
* Where did you go to do that: I am on the phone, not the computer. I went to access va. The veteran portal instructions, they provided a paper at the hospital last time to go on there to look up his benefits.
* Where you able to do that: Yes. Once I read through all of the instructions and password
* Did you find it out: According to the site they haven't been processed yet.
* Normally access it on phone or computer: The laptop.
* Last used: Uploaded claim evidence for my husband. I didn't know I could go look at refills on here.

**Veteran Tasks**

Now I'm going to ask you to do a number of things that you may or may not have done before. Please do these tasks on your computer or phone as you normally might if I weren't here. For each task, I will stop you at a point when I feel like we've done enough, and I won't ask you to sign in.

I would like you to _talk aloud_ as much as possible so that you share what you're thinking, what you're doing, what you like, what you dislike, and what you're unsure about.

**Task 1: \[Message doctor\] - 4 minutes**

* Let's pretend that you had a doctor's appointment at the VA last week, and now you have a follow-up question for the doctor. How could you contact them? I have no idea. Probably go under healthcare and send a secure message to the healthcare team.
* Have you never done that: Correct, usually I call on the phone and sit on hold forever.
* Click on that: Okay, now it is asking me to sign in so I would need to get the information from my husband to do that. I have all of the stuff but it is all on my phone not the computer. I would use my husbands, he ahs a list of all of his passwords.
* How would you rate the ease of finding what you were looking for on a scale from 1 to 5, where 1 is _difficult_ and 5 is _easy_? And why? Being the first time I did it, it would be a 4 because it was on the home screen and it told me exactly what I wanted to do.

**Task 2: \[Track claim status\] - 4 minutes**

* Say that you've already applied for disability compensation, and you want to find out if your claim has been approved. What could you do? I have no idea. Go under disability and check you claim or appeal status. Then you'd have to sign in to figure out what is going on with your claim I guess.
* How would you rate the ease of finding what you were looking for on a scale from 1 to 5, where 1 is _difficult_ and 5 is _easy_? And why? 5\. Everything is on the homepage; it tells you exactly where to go.

**Task 3: \[Appoint a representative to help with your claim--Find form\] - 4 minutes**

* Pretend that you just found out that your disability claim was denied and you want to appeal. You know someone who has agreed to help you with that. How would you find the form to fill out to say that you want that person to be your representative? I have no idea to tell you the truth, I don't even know where I would look at that. I have used DAV so I would call them. Here I wouldn't know where to go.
* Number at the DAV: Actually right now my husband's disability is in an appeal process and they hand the appeal process for him. It is who we used before, he sees a lot of doctors outside of the va and they don't get all of the papers to make the decisions.
* Anything you might try if you weren't able to call: I mean I would click through to see what there is to offer for each one. Look at his records, I don't know. File a claim for compensation. I mean I got on here to add evidence, I have done that before but I haven't looked at any of the other ones. Like I said I didn't know I could order his prescriptions either.
* Nothing else you would try: I would probably click on them to see what they need. I mean on this one it should forms you can get.
* Looking for the form for a representative: It wouldn't be in this one under disability. It should authorize of release of medical records but it doesn't show to release information to another person.
* What at this point: go back and click on a different screen.
* What would you normally do if you couldn't call right then: I am looking t5o where I can get help filing a claim.
* Looking for the form to fill out: Like right here go to ebenefits to change the representative is what it says (reading Page). Clicks download form, they have two different ones. This one is for a representative then the other on for a lawyer to represent you.
* How would you rate the ease of finding what you were looking for on a scale from 1 to 5, where 1 is _difficult_ and 5 is _easy_? And why? Probably a 3 because it wasn't under the forms file. I had to go to how to file a claim then look through there to find the files.
* I'd like you to go to another page, which I've put the link to in the chat 
  * Can you try using this page to help with the task? Types in representative. I normally just use my phone and it has auto correct. It pops up here for a Vso or individual. It is easier to go here and type what you need.
  * How would you expect to get to this page from va.gov? I would go to search them forms from this page. Types in forms and then see what it pulls up. Then search for representative form. You know.
  * Go back once, before you type something in do you see something that could help: Maybe find a va form. Clicks va form. Then you type in what you are looking for there.
  * When this page came up, you saw the search box and started to type, but second time saw the find va for, what were you focusing on: I just thought if I typed it in here I wouldn't need to look down the page to find another place to type it in
  * Prepare to type there: Right.

**Task 4: \[Update direct deposit\] - 4 minutes**

* Imagine that you just changed your bank. How would you update this information with the VA so that your disability compensation payments will go to your new bank instead of your old one? Go to search and type in how to change bank account. Hope it tells me how to change it. Clicks on change va direct deposit information. Then it will have me sign in and update it.
* How would you rate the ease of finding what you were looking for on a scale from 1 to 5, where 1 is _difficult_ and 5 is _easy_? And why? Now I know how to use the website a 4\.
* Tell me more: I didn't know I could type what I needed to find then be directed where to find it.
* Search before: Like I said I have only been on it one time so no. I am looking at it and trying to find out how to use it.

**Task 5: \[Travel reimbursement direct deposit--R&S\] - 4 minutes**

* Now that you've updated your bank information for disability compensation, you want your travel to medical appointments to be reimbursed by direct deposit, too. How could you set that up? I am looking at my form. Go to access va and they have a place to updated address, banking information.
* Can you find that on va.gov: Searches travel pay. Clicks VA travel pay reimbursement. I was looking for access va website. I would go there and sign in and then you go to the login page and it has the banking information and address for them to send the travel pay to.
* Anything else you could do before going there: click learn how to set up direct deposit for travel pay reimbursement. I can get the form or go to the portal from here.
* Normally go to the portal: Yes. 
* How would you rate the ease of finding what you were looking for on a scale from 1 to 5, where 1 is _difficult_ and 5 is _easy_? And why? Probably 5 because that was easy to find. I went to the search and typed in travel pay.
* I'd like you to go to another page, which I've put the link to in the chat 
  * Can you try using this page to help with the task? You can go to va account and profile for direct deposit benefits then change va direct deposit and how to set up the bank account. I was looking down the page and it is under va account and profiles.
  * How would you expect to get to this page from va.gov? Probably through a search and type in resources. It comes up as resources and support. Then it would take me to resources and support to click on.
  * Type in resources to search but if you didn't know it exists, is typing in resources something you might do: I would just type in support. If I go up here and type in support. I hope to find help to navigate the website and that's the first thing and if not then it tells you how to contact them to find out where to go.

**Task 6: \[Find a VA location\] - 4 minutes**

* I'd like you to imagine that you're planning a trip to another city, and you want to know where the nearest VA hospital is. How would you figure this out? Go to find a va location. I have had to do this then type in the city. Types in Las Vegas, NV. Facility type, VA health. Clicks search. Then it tells me that they have a clinic, I think there's five and a big hospital. We came from las Vegas. My son lives there. I have went under google search looking for va hospitals when we travel.
* How would you rate the ease of finding what you were looking for on a scale from 1 to 5, where 1 is _difficult_ and 5 is _easy_? And why? Probably a 5 because it is on the home page, it is one of the first 3 things you see. It is at the top, find a va location.

**Task 7: \[Get benefit letter\] - 4 minutes**

* Your mortgage lender has asked for proof of your income. How can you get a document that shows the income that you receive from the VA? Go to disability and view payment history. Then you have to sign in to have it pull up and it has everything he has received.
* How would you rate the ease of finding what you were looking for on a scale from 1 to 5, where 1 is _difficult_ and 5 is _easy_? And why? A 5 because it is easy and it tells you it is your payment history.

**Task 8: \[Get medical records\] - 4 minutes**

* You were just advised to see a doctor outside the VA, and their office asked for your medical history from the VA. How can you share that with them? That I do not know. I have no idea how to share the medical records, normally they just automatically transfer their records.
* If that didn't happen automatically: I would talk to him because he has something on his phone where he can pull all medical records off. I haven't had to do that for him. I have never tried to get his records at all
* Do you see anything: schedule and manage health appointments is where I would start then I would look for something that would allow. It says get medical records. Then it should how I can get them online here; I would need to sign in and go to myhealthevet to pull his medical records. That would be the only thing I would do to get them to the doctor.
* How would you rate the ease of finding what you were looking for on a scale from 1 to 5, where 1 is _difficult_ and 5 is _easy_? And why? Probably a 3 because you have to go to it through medical records then look down the list of stuff to get the medical records.
* You found it there: yes.

**Task 9: \[Update dependents\] - 4 minutes**

* Say that you just got married. How would you tell the VA about your new spouse? I don't know where you go to for that. I would search again and put marriage. You can go and click add a dependent.
* How would you rate the ease of finding what you were looking for on a scale from 1 to 5, where 1 is _difficult_ and 5 is _easy_? And why? Probably a 4 because you only need to type in marriage and it take you to this page.

**Post-Task Interview - 5 minutes**

_Type into \#feedback-backchannel: "Any questions you want me to ask?"_

* What do you _like_ about using the VA.gov website? It looks like I will be able to find all of the answers to any questions I have, if you can't find it, you can search it and you will find it.
* What do you _dislike_ about using VA.gov? Not that I was told about it before. The VA when you go and ask questions they should provide information where you can find information and they don't. VA has not mentioned it to you.
* How did you find out how to go there: My husband told me to look at the site and see if it could help him. He found out at physical therapy.
* What would you like to _change_ about VA.gov? Add more of the boxes with information so it is easy to find instead of typing in the search bar. Like make a forms one. That would be the only thing. I like the boxes because it is easy to find the information.
* More items in the boxes: that or add more boxes.
* Items you would like: Forms, more information on healthcare and what's offered for the veterans.
* When you're unable to find what you're looking for on VA.gov, what do you do next? I call the VA.
* Is there anything else that we haven't talked about that you think I should know? Not that I can think of.

**Thank You and Closing - 1 minute**

Well we really appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us today. Your feedback is so helpful to us as we continue to work on improving the VA website.

Thank you so much again and enjoy the rest of your day!
