Can you tell me a little about yourself? (if needed, ask about service history)
I’m in VA Beach – I don’t like it here, I am from up state New York. I was in the Navy – I enlisted in Nov of 1975 and was honorably discharged in ’77 for medical reasons. I started out in communications – morse code. 
What device are you joining us on?
iPhone
Do you currently, or have you ever, received any benefits from the VA?
If yes: What benefits?
I currently deceive disability as a 70% disabled Vet, but I receive 100% due to being unemployable. I get 100% of my healthcare through the VA.
Do you currently, or have you ever, filed a claim or appeal with the VA?
I filed a claim about 10 years ago for disability. My first claim was denied, and I ended up appealing it myself. I received 50% at first and then filed another claim, which received 70%. That was returned with the application for unemployability which was approved within a week. It changed my life to get approved. I went into the process very reluctantly because I did not think that I would get approved. I applied to prove people wrong who said I should file a claim but ended up getting awarded the benefits. Women were told that they are not Veterans and many will not consider themselves to be Veterans now even though they served time in the military – we were told not to even bother doing anything after we got out because we were told we wouldn’t qualify. 
The unemployability is a separate section of disability. 
(if yes) How do you check for any updates or changes to your benefits?
There are no changes for me. The only change is the amount of money I received based on changes in the economy. There is a site online that is a catch all, called eBenefits. It tells you about your benefit package and has letters that you may need to prove your benefits/disability. eBenfits did not exist when I first submitted my claim, but it did once I did my second. Since then everything has been combined onto VA.gov. I used VA.gov about a week ago for MHV. 
Have you ever used the My VA page on VA.gov? What do you use it for?

How do you manage your benefits?
(if needed: do you ever go online?) Where do you go?

Do you ever manage your benefits on VA.gov? Tell me about that.
(if they haven't mentioned it: Are you familiar with My VA? Tell me about your experience with it)

Background and questions - 7 minutes
Just a little bit of background before we start - we are working on building a central place for you to receive any action items, updates or reminders on VA.gov. These could be anything related to health care, benefits or just general announcements.
Have you ever seen a place on any websites that you user currently that has this kind of information all in one place?

What would you expect that type of information to be called?

What kind of information would you expect to be on a page like this?

What are some scenarios in your life where you would want a page like this?

Imagine that you do have new [USE THEIR WORD], how would you know?

Where would you expect the VA to tell you about that?

First task - Scenario - 5 minutes
Participant should be on first page of the prototype.
Now that you’re looking at this prototype, where would you go to find some of the updates we just discussed, starting from here?
I would probably go to the bottom where it says, “send a secure message” to find out what I would do next. Other than that I would go the menu. I’d go there for an update on the cost of living increase *if applicable*
I noticed you clicked on [section].
Why would you expect it to be in this section?
What are you looking for here?
Second task - Alerts indicator - 3 minutes
Go ahead and scroll to the top, and take a look at the 'Alerts' with the little bell and the red dot.
What does that mean to you?
It means, “we have a message for you that is very important that you need to read.”
What do you expect to happen if you click on the bell?
If there were mandates for the VA, such as hour-of-operation changes (or those kind of things), then they would pop up there. I would like to see something that is personalized. I am thinking that the alerts are generic and for all veterans to know. It would be lovely if there were a personalized alerts page. 
What is confusing about this?

Okay, great! That's it for the prototype, so we'll go ahead an move on to the next activity.
Third task - My VA - 7 minutes
Let's go ahead and click on 'My VA'. I have another scenario for you. Imagine you recently went to a VA doctor and she said she would send you a message about your results. Can you walk me through how you would see that?
If I scroll down in the alerts, there is a section that says I have a new message from Dr. X. That’s where I would go. Currently, you have to go to MHV and scroll through clinic notes. You used to have to wait 3 days, but now it is 36 hours. 
If they said that, ask
Why would you expect it to be in this section?

Let's take a look at the Alerts section on My VA.
What are your thoughts on this section?
It doesn’t really look different than the other one. Oh, now I see claims and appeals on the bottom. This is closer to what I was thinking would help with the other one. The alerts are first, then claims and appeals. I like that this section is for new alerts and if you then want more information then you can go through them. I like this better than the other one where you just scroll. 30 days is a good timeline. 
What would you do next with this info?
What information about your alerts would you want to see on your personal dashboard?
What do you think works about this section?
What do you find confusing here?
What if you have more than 3 alerts that are important? There have been times when I have 5 appointments within a couple days or within a week. Would this cover multiple appointments at once? Some people are frequent flyers who go to the VA once or twice a week. I knew somebody who was going almost every day. The only thing I could think of is the link underneath, which is for scheduling appointments, it could also let you know that you have multiple appointments coming up and then clicking the link would show you a list. There IS an option to “view all alerts.” I think that is easy to miss, especially if someone isn’t paying attention – maybe it could be in red so that it doesn’t look like the rest of the page.
What would you change about this section?
If you were to click on 'View all alerts', what would you expect to happen?

I believe some places send emails or text messages to notify you of updates, so the alert could be attached to something like that to let the Vet know. It should all be tied together somehow.
Go ahead and click on 'View all alerts.
Fourth task - Alerts - 10 minutes
Go ahead and scroll through this page and walk me through what you're seeing here.
What are your overall thoughts about this page?
I love that it has the Veterans name, branch of service, and disability rating. I don’t know what type of form that is, but I assume it needs to be filled out for a form or something. I like that it has the expiration date and the last opened date – that’s helpful. 
Its great that it tells you about upcoming appointments, prescription refills…etc – these are all really important things, and the messages are great. 
eBenefits takes a lot of steps to get the same thing as this. 
Why do you think you are seeing these specific alerts?
What information is useful here?
What would make one notification more important than another one?
I would expect them to be in some order by date. The appointments are important to know about – it can be hard to get them scheduled within a month, so you really don’t want to miss an appointment. The doctor’s message is probably less important than a prescription refill. The hearing for an appeal seems as important as the expiration date for an appeal – they have equal importance. Anything to do with the claim process should be grouped together. There could be a toggle option where you could choose to look at claim stuff or everything else. Not everybody has a claim
What would you do next with this info?
What does it mean to take action on an alert?
How far back are you expecting to see your alerts?
A year and a day. Everything seems to have a year expiration date, so anything time constricted to time should just turn into a message that says you have to reapply. It would be nice if there were an option to reactivate the claim. 
What do you think works about this page?
What do you find confusing here?
What assumptions are you making about this page?
What would you change about this page?
What is missing on this page?
Okay, great - any questions or thoughts before we move on?
If users initially clicked on alerts, loop back to the third task
CLOSING QUESTIONS - TIME PERMITTING - 2 minutes
How did these pages meet your expectations?

How did these pages not meet your expectations?

Do you think you would or would not use these pages when you log in to VA.gov? Why?
if no: What would make this page more useful to you?

