# Medical Records Team Meeting 2022-08-02

- Roadmap has Medical Records "discovery" happening through September, so we have to get the requirements we need to the MHV team by September 13.
- Requirements can be pretty high level (like "3 months of design and research" with a list of screens)
- Full design and research work will start in October
- We'll figure out ownership and next steps, but it's high level so we'll need to get more specifics
- Thoughts right now:
	- Marci will own the product side
	- Jenny will be lead designer with Martha
	- Megan can help with some of the research, like writing conversation guides so we know what to ask stakeholders
	- Jonathan and Arienne might have some capacity at the end of the increment to help with some initial designs
	- Tracey is the PO, overseeing everything
	- Lauren is the sponsor
	- Jasmine is on the Product side, and is helping drive oCTO teams working on the health apartment
	- Mikki and Danielle have been nominated as extensions of the Medical Apartment team but will not be in the mix day-to-day

- August
	- We are all pretty much starting even and will figure out where to go next
	- August - competitive research, what other folks are doing (Jenny)
	- Tracey will figure out who the decision-makers are.  We have a list of 30 stakeholders.  There are people who own different things.  We need to know who are SMEs, who can tell us the policies, what's already been done, etc.
	- We want to know what the rules are, not the opinions. 
		- You can't show labs and tests until 36 hours after the results have been delivered so the provider has a chance to review it first
	- Competitors are Kaiser, EPIC, MyChart, Athena, Apple Health, Android's health app, any other examples we might come across
	- Market landscape - how do they handle:
		- Labs & tests
		- Notes
		- Self-entered data
		- Downloadable medical records
		- CCDA docs
		- Health conditions/problems
		- Allergies
		- Medications
		- Basically PAMPI data + historic records  + self-entered data)

- September
	- Start talking with Veterans
		- What do you use
		- How do you use it?
		- What do you want to print vs. view
		- Do we want to do these online or in person?
- October
		- Start full-fledged design work
		- Jenny was also thinking of consolidating a list of research studies that have been done about medical/health records. I don't think Meg has put everything in the repo
		- If people are dipping in and out over the next couple of months, we'd need to deliver some sort of data map
		- Lauren - it's good for us to help Veterans understand what they can find in a health record and where.
			- I can find my allergies here
			- I can find my prescriptions there
			- I can find a comprehensive health record here
			- Right now it's just a mashup of a bunch of tools
		  - Hoping what we are handing off to ByLight is that we can clearly articulate what is what and maybe have some early wireframes

- We've been told that another group did a whole exercise like this a couple of years ago, and MHV liked the proposal, so Tracey is trying to get her hands on that
- There are also some clinicians coming in on the business side who will know what's needed for the reports.
- We should also have Patrick come in and do some of the discovery
- Martha's concern is that this initial team delivers something where we are trying to learn from square one
- Bresha and Carnetta are the legacy leads for Medical Records.
- MHV Prod account - Tracey is getting credentials for us to look at 
- We can also get use the same account to access Cerner.
- Tracey and Marci need to start coming up with a meeting cadence.
- Marci will create a board in GitHub
- Slack channel #mhv-medical-records
- All of us should have ownership of the data.
- We need to figure out work needs to be done
- Martha thinks the challenge will be providing the "everything" view vs. the "show me what happened this day"
- Jenny: There are three tools, and all do similar things. There are also different names for same touch points. Yeah, definitely need to figure out how to make it less confusing to navigate


- We will re-use the MHV API
	- We should be able to get a view of what the request  and response for the MHV API looks like
- The "Big Rocks" are Appointments, Secure messaging, medical records and pharmacy
- The structure of the medical records will be that the most recent info will be at the top.  We haven't defined what recent is yet, but that will be a snapshot.
- We don't know how important self-entered info is.Martha - do we envision where they could launch a secure message straight from an after visit summary so that it's in context?
- There is a vision of redesigning health care (Re-imagining Veteran Health Care)

- Action Items
  - Marci will create a board in Github 
  - Create some tickets
  - Review what Meg put on GitHub
  - Figure out meeting cadence
  - Schedule follow-up meeting for Friday

Artifacts to Create:
- Questions for stakeholders
- Data map
- Regulations
- [Competitive landscape](https://app.mural.co/t/departmentofveteransaffairs9999/m/departmentofveteransaffairs9999/1659473055858/08b0e54ba40761f0893fc1c13454882a645e47ff?sender=ueeece9e244394145c84e5173)

