# 2022-09-06 Medical Records standup

## Attendees
- Coulton Bunney
- Marci McGuire

## Updates
- Add Bobby, Arienne and Lexi to daily standup
- Session with Arienne and Bobby today
- Session with Barry Egbert on Friday - had worked on MHV for quite a long time
  - Set up a lot of the service that feed Blue Button and 
  - PHR is also the name of a back-end service.  Blue Button calls PHR and PHR calls a bunch of service and places it in e-vault
  - Sounds like there are some challenges with the services.  Some of the services that PHR calls are proxies to others
  - We're going to need to start looking at the data in October
  - Can we look at the raw data and design our own API? TBD
  - We're waiting for Barry to send us the SDD (system design document)
  - Engineer said they couldn't do it, but we don't know WHY.  
  - Health summary comes from Health Information Exchange that gets sent from other VA facilities
  - Blue Button report actually pulls data from the data sources
  - Transformations could be different between Health Summary and Blue Button
  - VistA - PHR - it's pulling data from each facility (there's an instance of VistA at each) and it's never de-duplicated
  - Technically there is no source of truth
  - Most of medical records is built on users pulling data vs. pushing data, which is an artifact of its age, and also the ways the VA has interpreted regulations
  - VA Privacy Act basically says that Veterans own all their data and if they request it, we have to give it to them, period.  
  - A request to access, we have to log one of those requests. They have interpreted this as an explicit button push for each record.  This may be a overly strict interpretation.
  - We can also change everything from a Request to Access to a HIPPA
  - From an accountability and staffing perspective, he would prefer that we are out front of everything
  - There may be an AdHoc researcher joining
  - AdHoc is leading the discovery phase
  - ByLight is leading the execution phase

