**Notetaker**: Emily W.

## Notes

Participant: Jody
Tuesday July 17, 2018
11:00am-12:00pm



[Introduction, technical setup]

**I’m going to share my screen then I’ll turn on the recording**

Ok

**Before we start can you tell me a little about yourself?**

Um what do you want to know?

**When you were in the service, when you left the service, what branch you were in.**

I was in the marine corps in the first Gulf War, I was an MP when I was in, when I got out that’s not what I wanted to do so I went back to school on my GI bill and I’ve got 2 degress in human services and now I’m a counselor at a maximum security prison here in Nashville.

**I want to ask you a little bout the benefits that you’ve received and what you've used in the past?**

I’m 70% service connected, so I go to the VA for everything.

**Alright so in addition to disability benefits are there other ones that you’ve used?**

Yes, so I went through voc rehab because I was service connected so I think my GI bill went to them, and they paid for all my college.

**Are you using the healthcare system as well?**

Yes.

**Did you apply for all these benefits at once?**

When I first got out I applied for my disability and then I applied for the school benefits, so I was getting my health benefits and then I applied for the voc rehab through the VA.

**Ok. And what motivated you to apply for these benefits? Was there a specific event, or different life events that prompted you to apply?**

I had some surgeries when I was active duty and I needed care for those once I got out. And I mean the only way to have gotten those benefits was to apply for them, so I applied.

**What about later on for some of the other benefits you applied for?**

Well after I got out of the MC, I didn’t have a college degree, so during some of the health stuff that I was receiving, they told me to reach out and apply for the voc rehab and that’s how I got it to go back to school.
 
**How did you learn about these benefits?**

You’re talking the early to mid-90s, so if someone didn’t tell you, you didn’t know anything about anything.

**Do you have any idea, or remember how you learned about any of them? I know it was awhile ago now to remember. Was it another person or Veteran? Someone at the VA?**

Someone at the VA, a doctor.

**That was after you already started receiving the disability benefits?**

That’s correct.

**Do you remember how you learned about disability benefits in the first place?**

When I got out, they made us go through some training, they called it TAPR [?] I believe, some kind of transitional thing they did with us and they told us about that stuff. I think it was a week long training or something they had us go through.

**What could the VA have done to make it easier to learn about benefits?**

I guess they could have had a representative from the VA come and speak during that.

**There wasn’t someone from the VA there?**

No, I don’t remember anyone from VA. They talked about VA benefits, but that would've been another servicemember.

**How did you deteremine whether you were eligible?**

I didn’t try to determine if I was eligible.

**So you just applied without knowing about your eligibility?**

Correct.

**Was that a concern at all? Did you assume you would be eligible?**

I just assumed from the nature of the injuries that I had, they occurred while i was on active duty. I thought they would just take care of it. I didn't know about any of the process to begin with.

**Have there been benefits you would’ve applied for sooner that you didn’t know about?**

Well yeah, I stayed at 10% for 20 years.

**Tell me more about that.**

I just never knew that I... No one ever told me that I could apply for anything else until I moved here to Nashville and got connected to some military organizations. A lot of the information we get as Vets comes from Vets. There’s nothing out there to tell us anything about anything.

**How did you find out you were eligible, or that you should look into to raising you disability rating?**

It was another Veteran. That was about 4 and half years ago.

**Ok. Specifically with regaards to that experience, what could the VA have done to let you know sooner?**

They could’ve made me feel like a person and a Veteran, and told me, "The reasons you are coming to us for help and medical care is because of this, that, and the other." And maybe you should treat us like we’re people. Being a female it's 10 times worse, because half the time they think we’re somebody’s damn wife.

**Would you have expected to hear that from your doctor? Who would you have expected to hear that from?**

Well probably the doctors that treat us. Half the time they don’t even remember who we are. You gotta give them your full life history every time you go to see them, I’m not joking.

**I’m sorry to hear that, that’s such a shame.**

Thank you.

**In addition to what we’ve talked about, that there could be better communciation with doctors, what else could the VA do to make it easier for Veterans to find out what benefits they have?**

They could first of all train their people. There are people that work at the VA that really need some training first of all on how to treat a Veteran. Just because you can’t see the illness on the outside doesn’t mean there isn’t one, and that’s something a lot of people need to understand. The VA could spend a little money sending out information. For example, here at the prison, I’m the coordinator for the Veterans Club, and we have a woman that comes from the VA every 3 months to talk about their benefits and she never brings any new nformation with her because there isn’t any. I think the last book she brought was from 2014. 

**So making sure the information is more up to date.**

Absolutely.

[Intro to Explore VA]

**I’m goint to share my screen, we're looking at a site called Explore VA.**

I can see it.

**Have you ever used it?**

I don’t know if I have or not.

**[Explains, navigates through to questionnaire]**

**This would ask you more questions about yourself and it would give you a sheet that looks like this, the page we’re about to look at.** 

**Pretend that if you filled out this questionnaire, these are the results you would get if you would take it in real life. These are the results you got from filling out this questionnaire. Is any of that confusing? I know its a big hypothetical to keep in your mind.**

No, I understand.

**Scan through the results of this page, and when you’re ready I’d like you to answer this question: Is the information here helpful or unhelpful in facilitating your understanding of these benefits?**

*Scrolls*

Oh that’s pretty cool.

**Why is that?**

It just kinda tells you. I like this stuff because it tells you based on the information you put in what’s available to you. A lot of times we do...

[audio cuts out]

This is a good site to um.. So you put in all information based on the stuff that’s popped up here on the screen?

**Yes so what we would’ve done is continue filling out this questionnaire and answering questions based on you and your service, and this is one potential ouptut. If you were to do it you would get something tailored to you.**

That’s pretty interesting that it’s giving you what’s available to you based on the answers you put in.

**What questions do you have about your eligiblity for these benefits?**

The e-benefits thing is the one thing I think that has puzzled me from the get-go because I used to be in e-benefits and then I got kicked out and then I found out that I got kicked out. See, I married someone when I was active duty. But I released off active duty honorably before him and then they put me back in the system as a dependent so they kicked me out of the system because I was a dependent, not an active duty person. I’v not been able to get back into it since I don’t know how many years that happend, it’s been a lot.

**In addition to what you’ve already mentioned, would you have questions about your eligibility?**

Um… 
*Scrolls*

Well I’m assuming that if you click on some of the things that are in that area it would tak you somewhere else to further explain the benefits… I mean does it?

**Yes.**

That would be my only question.

**What questions do you have about these benefits that would be helpful to answer on this page?**

I don't know.

**Based on the wording on this page, do you think you’re being guaranteed any of these benefits should you apply?**

I woudln’t think that at all. 

**Why is that?**

First of all, nothing is guaranteed. And I think that just by looking at this stuff, it gives you the option to further explore it which means if you further explore something you’re furthering the application process to apply for something that’s shown here that you may qualify for. Know what i mean?

**Yes.**

**If you were to receive this list in real life does it encompass everything you’re eligible for?**

I don’t know, how can we know 100% what’s out there?

**So let’s pretend that you want to take advantage of some of these benefits at some point in time. Let's say the education benefits. You’re not ready to apply right now. What would you do next?**

I mean, I guess I would still want to explore what the benefits offer. Just cause you’re checking things out doesn’t mean youre applying for anything. You’re just gathering info.

**What would you do if you knew you didn’t want to apply for another year or 2?**

Well I would definitely save this website in my browser or wherever you save, bookmark it or something and maybe keep checking on it, you know, until I’m ready to use it again.

**Ok in addition to what you’ve already talked about, are there other ways this experience could be improved?**

Um... I, well. Now when you have… ok, so... This stuff is just our federal benefits? This doesn’t include any other piggybacked, like… I mean you got it on education right now so if someone wanted to apply for VA education and training benefits, but what about other available benefits do other agencies have that could piggyback some of this stuff?

**To be honest, I’m not sure of the answer to that question, I think this just includes VA benefits, not ones you get throu other agencies**

It might be helpful if there was a link to another area that could offer information about those other piggyback benefits.

**Anything else about this page?**

No.

**So the next thing I'd like to do is look at a different design. It’s a prototype, not a real live website. It’s a design we’ve created and is not live anywhere. It’s a prototype of vets.gov showing what it could look like sometime in the future.**

**What we’re going to do is pretend we are this person, Kim Washington. [Sets up scenario]**

**Scan through this page and tell me a little more about what you’re looking at here.**

[Scrolls down, up]

Well that's pretty interesting but it looks like this is geared towards someone who just got out of the military and needs this information.

**What is this person being told?**

Well it looks like they have been approved for healthcare through the VA and they've got some medicine that she was taking while on active duty, that's going to automatically transfer to the VA once she starts going to the VA.

**Ok. Do you understand how vets.gov came up with these recommendations for Kim? How would you say they came up with it?**

I would guess this is somehow linked to her and the only way she has access to it is through some high security password protected access that she has. She has given some info or they have gathered it through other sources.

**Do you trust these recommendations?**

Um… I use my healthy vet all the time. So... I totally, I don’t completely understand the whole process but for the most part, I talk to the nurse in my primary cares office through the secured whatever its’ called and she responds pretty quickly and I can get stuff done through the VA and I would think that if someone was on this website and paying attention regularly they would know if this is true or not. So I would trust it.

**What questions do you have about benefits that would be helpful to answer on this page?**

Well the education stuff I would just think that maybe for someone who has already used the GI bill or someone who... In my case I gave up my GI bill to use voc rehab, a Veteran can use voc rehab more than once. If that could be linked in... maybe it's not there because she hasn’t qualified for it. If that were somehow linked to this site... Is voc rehab through the VA connected as well?

**Yes, it would be if they were eligible. Our made up person is not eligible for it. If it were on this page it would be helpful to know you could use it multiple times is what I’m hearing?**

Yes.

**Any other information that would be helfpul on this page vs a page were you could learn more?**

Down here it says find a VSO, so I’m guessing that that would allow you to talk to a real person if you had concerns or something. Is that what that is?

**Yes. What questions, if any, would you have about your eligibility for thses benefits?**

Um… I mean I don’t know that I would have any. Based on anything that’s shown here if this was me, I would just be clicking on stuff to figure it out. 

**Ok. Do you think this list encompasses everything you are elgible for?**

Probably not.

**Why not?**

That’s not very many things, I would hope that we would qualify for just those kind of benefits.

**Lets assume you know you want to apply for one of those type of benefits. Let’s say it's life insurance. How likely would you be to immediatey apply for life insurance?**

I don’t know. I guess I would want to know more about the life insurance. I’m guessing if I hit apply now, I could probably find that information.

**Ok. So let's pretend you know that you would want to take advantage of education benefits but you’re not ready to do that in the near term. What would you do next or expect to happen on this page?**

I would guess on this page that "continue your education" would just stay there until I checked it out. And again if it was something I wanted to do in the future and not right now, I mean if I came back to this page on a regular basis that would be there until I used it.

**Would it be helpful to have a reminder to come back and apply?**

Yes.

**In what format?**

Email, maybe every 3 months or 1 time a month like, “Hey, we are just checking on you and saw you looking at it”

**Let’s imagine an opposite scenario. What would you do if there is a benefit on this list that you had no interest in receiving?**

Looks like you can click an x and it would go away.

**What about a benefit you already had?**

If it were me, I would explore it and see if I was getting the max potential based on the infomration you’re providing on this website.

**Are there any other ways this could be improved?**

No.

**Ok! That's all the questions I had for you today. Did you havea any questions for me?**

Is this something that will go live for us at some point? Is it still in research process?

**Still in the research process right now. Something like this will take quite a while to build, but we will get there in baby steps**

Alright well that sounds awesome.

[Closing]

[Compensation]

- Chose Amazon gift card
- Same email address is fine


