# VA Travel Reimbursement Interview Questions - (Order BA)

## First Version - A, but in this interview A was second

### Past Experiences

1. How do you typically get to your VA medical appointments?
  - Currently, in the past year with my own vehicle, before that it was with other people or using the special transport through the VA
2. Have you ever submitted to be reimbursed for traveling for your VA medical appointment?
  - Yes, I did it on the website until I saw the app started doing it. There was a time that a few years ago it was such an issue I just stopped doing it, it wasn't worth the time. Back to it since it is simpler again on the app
3. If you have submitted to be reimbursed for traveling before, did you have to upload evidence like receipts? Please describe your experience.
  - Yes, the time I did a bulk one. During covid they extended the timeframe. I was there so often I saved up all of them and did a bulk dump 1 week before the deadline like $380 and they denied it saying it was passed the deadline even though I had proof. It turned into a whole messy thing. I don’t have faith in that particular one (that place)
  - I first appealed by the proof they asked for. I called and also saw online they need to list VAs own appointments. Then I went there in person and tried to speak to them and the person at the desk so we have no idea I am just the desk person. Ask for management and they said there is no manager in the travel beneficiary section of the VA. That is what you are told to say and I am supposed to accept that. So I sat in a chair for 2 hours waiting to see a supervisor and saw a guy walk in, ended up being the manager. 
4. What are your expectations about Veterans being reimbursed for traveling for VA medical care?

---

### Questions from: Intro page

1. Tell me what you are looking at.
  - I see the things to do it. Of course the actual layout doesn’t matter. The order of them is a little bit jumbled but I do see the basic facts to get it done. Just a matter of processing in the proper order
    - Proper order: I would prefer to see past appointments. Facts first. I am a facts first person e.g., the fact at the top first aka the appointment. When you forgot something tend to go to the top
    - Tips at the bottom are good. I would put here, is what we are together as a separate thing (second) and then what you will need below that. 
2. Do you think you can be reimbursed? What tells you that?
  - One would have to have a physical copies and scan them in using the phone. I guess website and not app. If phone, photograph it. Hopefully they know how to upload. The dates and amount should be down there with the facts already? Aren’t they going to prefill it out for me or do I have to go back and look?
  - Starting address: I am going to assume by default they have my home address and then unless it is secondary. Traveling method and mileage information. Also for me going to be pre filled out
  - First thing to provide, digital copies
  - Gonna search and see if autofill
  - What is gonna be required from me are the facts, the physical stuff
3. What do you think that you need to know in order to get reimbursed? What tells you that?
4. What items or information do you think that you will need to complete this process? What tells you that?
5. Looking at this page, what do you expect to happen next? What tells you that?
  - Based on the order of these things…I am going to think the first think they are going to want to know is, is this the appointment you went to? BUt then why is it the last thing I saw on the prior page and could I have not verified it there. 

---

### Questions from: “Trip Info” page

1. Tell me what you are looking at.
  - Well I guess, in a pleasing way I do see the details at the top. I am pleased with that. And then because it has the facts first and it's like okay now I can move onto my input and first thing is starting address and then second thing and the travel information below. I like facts, point A and  begin to travel to point B  as the third box there. I like that layout
2. What do you think you can do here? What tells you that?
3. What do you think you need to do here? Why?
  - Well I see receipts next up top, that too is pleasing. What I wanted to happen in the first mock up (B)

---

### Questions from: “Receipts” page

1. Tell me what you are looking at.
  - Yes, I do see the three formats and a chance to upload them. But what they throw in here I guess is they switch the ease out with lump summing the receipts instead of itemizing. Last time I was itemizing, this time, just a lump sum of add the receipts.
  - Receipt details:
    - Now that I see the “remove” button I can tell it was uploaded successfully. 
    - Dates, which would be filled out by the user right? Yeah, not auto populated. All of these would be filled in. Shows it is there, shows a file size and it is up to me to fill out the boxes underneath and I can keep adding them (receipts)
    - Makes sense and is more amenable
2. What do you think you can do here? What tells you that?
3. What do you think you need to do here? Why?
  - That nice order I had seen in page 1. Here are the facts and here is your input and its all done, do you want to verify everything. My facts, my unloaded stuff and a final confirmation, certifying all true

---

### Questions from: “Review” page

1. Tell me what you are looking at.
  - The facts, my input, and then the final thing, those things in that order. Seems proper to me. Under expenses would like to see it itemized for people who have a lot of receipts. 
2. What do you think you can do here? What tells you that?
3. What do you think you need to do here? Why?
4. What do you think is next?
  - Again, the confusion of I hit submit and it says success and it says submit again (at top bar). Would think developer cloned the button or something wrong

---

### Questions from: “Submission confirmed” page

1. Tell me what you are looking at.
  - Everything is the exact same and then the same comments as with the first one
2. What do you think happens next? What tells you so?
3. What do you think you can do from here?
4. What if you hadn’t seen money in 3 weeks?
  - The confirmation number, which is why want to be able to copy it, or print page, or save as pdf, or send it to my email. Although I know it all comes back to the confirmation number but would like multiple ways to take it off the page. Instead of god, did I save that webpage?


---

### Reflection Questions

1. On a scale of 1 to 10, how easy or difficult would you say this process was? What makes you say so? *Probe*
  - 1 for me and I would think other than the final submit 4 button more of a 2 or 1.5 for average web usage person
2. What would you add, change, or remove about this process? *Probe*
3. What would you keep about this process? *Probe*
- **If the user…**
  - *Has submitted for travel reimbursement before*: Reflecting on your experience, how does this process relate to your previous experience of submitting for travel reimbursement?
  - *Has not submitted for travel reimbursement before*: Reflecting on your experience, how does this process relate other experiences at the VA?
4. Anything else you want to share that we haven’t already covered?

---

## Second Version - Below is for B, which was first in this interview

### Questions from: “Expenses” page

1. Tell me what you are looking at.
  - Okay the first thing I guess was the first thing seen on the prior page, so according to that layout it is correct. Asking for what is required from the person. The mileage the tolls. So I am thinking this is going to be the greatest requirements of me now. I guess step 3 actually providing them. Expenses first, trip info second? 1-5 idk if I would adjust. Receipts as second and trip info as third? Switch 2 and 3 maybe
    - If it is expenses, so here are my receipts right after expenses
2. Thinking of your last trip, what do you think you can be reimbursed for?
  - Mileage, parking fees, tolls (selects)
3. What do you think happens next?
  - Would like to do receipts, but what is happening next is trip info and since mileage is first that could make sense. Likes the order of the items. So going to check those boxes and then would assume receipts next if I didn’t see order at the top already
  - I think next, now I am going to upload receipts but I know it is mileage

---

### Questions from: “Trip Info” page

1. Tell me what you are looking at.
  - Okay, the facts of the trip and then the option to change some of the default/pre-selected facts e.g, location, time, distance
2. What do you think would happen if you clicked “Primary travel method”?
  - PTM means, i would think that is odd, that is a single trip. Method, you think of a series, methodically. In my head it is weird they say method. But I guess you are going to choose which thing. Are they talking about overall? Only 3% of me thinks that. But I would know just for this trip?
3. Actions?
  - I am somebody that clicks on these things (all the fields) just to see my options so in the future I know. 
  - Would click on the drop downs to understand the options for the future
  - Would definitely check PTM, sometimes he scooters, wonders, does that count as a vehicle. 
  - Round trip mileage would see default. Maybe I would check the mileage to make sure it's correct, confirm in google maps. Check the route they are using for that calculation
4. What do you think is next?
  - Next is providing my receipts, but because…I may have forgotten, what were those receipts again, which is why it may be nice to have it next to the categories step earlier (step 1). Upload my facts
5. Goes to click but hasn't confirmed default address
  - Model box, just popped up as an overly. See the error message. See I have not confirmed my starting address. 
  - Why need to confirm?
    - That instead of just by default. Probably because I am over analyzing. Not going as a fluid human. Looking at things in boxes. Not filling out as I am actually using it I would think it would be there bc people with disabilities, memory issues, it should be double verified, are you sure this is right. 


---

### Questions from: "Receipts" page

1. Tell me what you are looking at.
  - I see receipts for the two other things that I had selected and I would think, I would be like gosh I wish they had an upload thing and another option. I remember losing money because there wasn’t any other. Extenuating circumstances. I always like to see another option because in my life, in every career field, there is always that other stuff that floats out there. Known knowns, unknown knowns…quotes rumsfeld. I like that other option in an upload section
2. What do you think you can do here? What tells you that?
  - I see the three common formats so I am going to click there and opens a box to select my particular file. I will wonder in my head, if they will have show all files or just show only JPG, PDF, PNG that way user doesn’t get confused if they don’t have proper file organization on their end. Pre-defined just those three file types or shows all files/folders. I will select those
  - Will also wonder so I guess I could do multiple sof each since it says “files” and not just “file”
  - Receipt details:
    - I see it says upload. I will assume nothing that says “success” or check mark. Nothing that verifies it. 
    - See actual facts here: amount, I guess that is entered by the user? In the prior page? Things it was. The date and the notes, let’s someone add to it. Notes are good for both sides to see
3. What do you think you need to do here? Why?
  - In my head, since I didn’t see confirmation things on the receipt uploads. How do I know file size is correct, maybe next will do verification that uploads were correct. 
  - ⅓ chance of files verified first, otherwise I think I will go to a review in all the details from page one in the exact same order to review. 

---

### Questions from: “Review” page

1. Tell me what you are looking at.
  - Okay now I see trip summary (down at bottom at page one) would have liked it at top at page one
   - Seeing the things (details) added in there. Are they correct? Assuming. Would guess uploaded without errors
  - Estimated reimbursement. Not itemizing the breakdown. Would think I have seen so many errors, would need to go back and check and do that itemization myself 
  - I guess since the itemization is above, I don’t need to go back. But I gues at the bottom would like an itemized line item
  - What does Mileage mean?
    - I would assume round trip total mileage from home to said given VA. Would have liked an * that you could click or hover on and it tells you a little math thing, how did it did the mileage calculation. Doesn’t know if that changes season to season
2. What do you think you can do here? What tells you that?
  - Total estimated and now total. Wondering about estimated word
  - I think I submit. But submit as step 5? I would guess, I am thining this is the check out cart. A little confused by submit on status bar and the bottom. Why does it not say summary? 
3. What do you think you need to do here? Why?
4. What do you think is next?
  - Sees submit on status bar and wonders why not a summary

---

### Questions from: “Submit” page

1. Tell me what you are looking at.
  - Your final results. What I would like to see is, you know it is nice to have a copy symbol to just click on the side of the confirmation number and it automatically copies into my clipboard and I can paste it only something else
Or a button that sends a button to my email
Why can’t I click on need help and it pops up to a webpage
Why can’t I just hit a button to print out the total so when things go wrong I have that paper ready to go down. I don’t have to do the footwork
A few things on this file page, a half dozen 
Submit another request, take me back to square one
Kind of like the review page but in one click print. Looking at a finalized PDF on the submission page
2. Do you think that you have submitted your request?
3. What do you think happens next? What tells you so?
4. What do you think you can do from here?

---

### Reflection Questions

1. On a scale of 1 to 10, how easy or difficult would you say this process was? What makes you say so? *Probe*
  - As it is right now…I would say, 1. For me it would be 1. Anytime I do something I think for other people maybe a 3. Just cause they may have to search around for a couple things. I think the average person may have a two little “what” moments
2. What would you change about this process? *Probe*
3 What would you keep about this process? *Probe*
- **If the user…**
  - *Has submitted for travel reimbursement before*: Reflecting on your experience, how does this process relate to your previous experience of submitting for travel reimbursement?
  - *Has not submitted for travel reimbursement before*: Reflecting on your experience, how does this process relate other experiences at the VA?
4. Anything else you want to share that we haven’t already covered?

---

## Comparison Questions

1. Which of these processes did you find easier? What makes you say so?
  - Second one (A)
    - Because it seems like the first one was not even a prototype, just something put there to understand how people wonder about this version. Just to mix up the mind. Don’t think even up for an option
2. Of everything that you looked at today, what would you say was the most confusing to you and why?
  - That 4/5th step button that says submit
3. What about these processes would you keep?
  - Steps up top, always steps up top. In 1994 when I started doing websites. Facts up top, things up to. Help at the bottom, facts at the top, everything we need from you in the middle
  - Like the minimalism
4. Is there anything else you would like to share that we have not covered?
  - I like to see little things next to stuff, if I hover or click, what does this do? Especially for Veterans and people who need medical stuff, more questioning and ponderous, more easter eyes that you hide in the game. Things that are just there to where people can say “oh that is what that is” can save a customer support call. Big paragraphs for information can overwhelm but have the little “i’s” - little pop-ups in case someone needs it. 
