# VA Travel Reimbursement Interview Questions - AB Order

## First Version - A

### Past Experiences

1. How do you typically get to your VA medical appointments?
  - By auto, my wife. We recently moved from Kansas to Texas. The system is a bit different in Kansas. We would travel from our house to the VA hospital in Leavenworth Kansas. Typically a 25min trip and about 20 miles one way. So, we normally received a check for about $16 after it was all said and done. You know honestly, the system is so. It is difficult. The program you guys got right now is very difficult. If the provider didn’t schedule an appointment or it is scheduled and not in the system, you won’t get reimbursed. Huge program we had in Kansas
So in Texas, it is still the same but they at least have a window at the Texas VA hospital, that if you have a problem. If you go to the window and fill out the manual paperwork, going to get a resolution a lot faster
We had a van and we would travel. I am in a wheelchair. I am also legally blind. I can still see you legally blind, so I don’t drive. My wife has to take off work for all my medical appointments
2. Have you ever submitted to be reimbursed for traveling for your VA medical appointment?
  - Yes - explained above and below
3. If you have submitted to be reimbursed for traveling before, did you have to upload evidence like receipts? Please describe your experience.
  - When we went to another facility for care, specialty care appointments we had to pay for parking, but when we tried to use the computer it just… if your CC appointments are not in the system, you can’t get reimbursed. It is so hard and you almost give up because it just isn’t worth the stress to try to get what you are entitled to
4. What are your expectations about Veterans being reimbursed for traveling for VA medical care?
  - I think they just gotta make it easier. Just so many. In some cases, it just makes it so…it is not a user friendly program. Constantly asking you your password, which I understand IDme, but just to get to. It is not, if you are determined to get reimbursed you have to figure out how to get to the right portal. It simply is not user friendly 

---

### Questions from: Intro page

1. Tell me what you are looking at.
  - What you’ll need before your start. Notes the digital copies needed, starting address, and mileage info. Sees the ‘here is what to do.’ Scrolls down. Here is what to do. Counts the steps 
2. Do you think you can be reimbursed? What tells you that?
  - Reads aloud the details. Yeah, I would think, it just takes. Like I said earlier, if you truly want to be reimbursed you have to show all these documents and answer all the questions, so I figure you can be reimbursed.
3. What do you think that you need to know in order to get reimbursed? What tells you that?
  - Well you have all the info you need. Digital copy, your past appointment would show up. So I am looking at helpful tips and processing time. I assume if you are set up then automatically wouldn’t have to worry about direct deposit info and would know it takes a pdf, jpg or png. What you are doing is taking it from your phone and going from there. 
4. What items or information do you think that you will need to complete this process? What tells you that?
  - Receipts, definitely receipts. And date and time, but date should be automatically in there since appointment is automatically in there. Some of it filled out for you since already approved appointment and you just full in the blanks, like the amount of expense. Maybe even have your address in there. Would think your travel method automatically in there with an application like maps and maps could probably show you. If it is designed with maps maybe there is one way you went and another way you went depenting on the complexity of the drive. 
5. Looking at this page, what do you expect to happen next? What tells you that?
  - Well, I would hope what I said to you. I would get an invoice I need to fill out and it would tell me where to put the pertinent info in. 

---

### Questions from: “Trip Info” page

1. Tell me what you are looking at.
  - So I am seeing the appointment, starting with my home address. I would want to confirm (home address), travel info, what type of vehicle and total amount of miles, I guess based on the distance from your home to the VA. just like they used to do at the one in Kansas.
Primary travel method?
I guess you  may have to scroll down if you used public transport or uber or something like that because you didn’t have a way to get to the appointment. Train, depends on where you live
Yeah, most people would take an Uber. I know people who have to take ubers and they do uber. That would be the other if they needed to.
2. What do you think you can do here? What tells you that?
  - Well, Round trip, yes, If you used a personal vehicle they already calculated that for you 47  miles so don’t need to use maps. I assume if you were to change the primary method of travel it might calculate it different e.g., know the taxi ride etc
3. What do you think you need to do here? Why?
  - Please confirm the starting address and go from that. I assume if I try to hit confirm it wouldn’t let me go to the next if I hadn’t confirmed
Hits confirm
4. What they expect next?
  - Well, if I am using personal vehicle and already calculated out it would probably just say submit

---

### Questions from: “Receipts” page

1. Tell me what you are looking at.
  - Well, asking you for receipts for meals, tolls, and lodging. 
  - Would provide the receipts. You know you have to take a picture, scan it, send it to your phone and go from there.
  - How typically managed receipts
    - On my phone and my wife helps me with this. She will because I can’t see well with the screen small even though I have a large cell phone VA provided me with bc of my vision. It scans it and we would email it to myself and then click and drag that document to the appropriate add receipt
2. What do you think you can do here? What tells you that?
  - Seeing the toll and the parking
  - Info you see in fields - where does it come from? From manual or the receipt auto
    - I guess if you didn’t need to pay for tolls and parking lets just say t was free you had to do something on the other page to prepare you for this. Or, you know, went ahead and downloaded these receipts and then of course you drag and drop files
3. What do you think you need to do here? Why?
  - Verify receipts, see if there was anything else like any other incidentals that you wanted to add
4. What expects next?
  - Again, you should get a dollar amount on the next page that tells you all the receipts on top of, going to consolidate 

---

### Questions from: “Review” page

1. Tell me what you are looking at.
  - At the review stage, trip summary
  - The mileage was $30.40
  - Miledage mean?
    - So they take 47 miles and multiply by whatever the IRS number is. That is how it is calculated by the VA
2. What do you think you can do here? What tells you that?
  - I see the other incidentals that parking and tolls…like I said, take the mileage and other expense and gives you estimate of what you should receive
3. What do you think you need to do here? Why?
  - Verify information and make sure it is correct
  - So, I don’t think you need to do anything else, You got all the information based on the mileage. You see the column for your receipts, you would just submit
4. What do you think is next?
  - Well you would hopefully see, basically hopefully what you want to get is a confirmation and actual confirmation number

---

### Questions from: “Submission confirmed” page

1. Tell me what you are looking at.
  - Confirmation number
  - If you are smart, you are going to take this and print and hold it until you have to find out what happened. If it's past 5-7 business days they are gonna ask you for this confirmation number to verify this. It is smart to either print it or put into PDF and put it on your computer until you see reimbursement comeback from bank
  - What would you do after 3-4 weeks if haven’t heard
    - I would call travel and find out status and where the delay is. I have had that happen
      - But I didn’t have a confirmation number so know way they could look that up. I am battling a form of ALS, so I do everything from my computer. So, I basically try to call the office, hard to get a hold of. Leave a message and they have 48-72 hours to respond and find out where the status is
    - Every encounter secure messaging/
      - Yes, I use secure message. ONly problem is that the travel department at the VA in Kansas you could send secure message but you can’t send a secure message from the Dallas VA, that is why it is better to go to the window and handle paper. Not in sync
2. What do you think happens next? What tells you so?
3. What do you think you can do from here?

---

### Reflection Questions

1. On a scale of 1 to 10, how easy or difficult would you say this process was? What makes you say so? *Probe*
  - I would give it a 2. Cause you still gotta spend time uploading reimbursements. Sometimes that can be tricky. Most people are computer savvy but it sounded like you couldn’t put a word document, only PDF but there was nothing for word. Cause some people might not know how to extract that information from your phone to make sure you put the receipts in properly and they not be accepted. We all know if you take a word document and convert it to pdf but people out there could be challenged by that. But someone who understands computers it is very easy
2. What would you add, change, or remove about this process? *Probe*
  - I assume you got trip info, receipt, and review. Maybe a help screen for those people who need help. Say you are having a problem uploading receipts, or you know. That would be the only thing. The only problem is uploading those additional receipts
3. What would you keep about this process? *Probe*
  - I would say it is okay. Very friendly. It is not difficult to understand and MAY NEED TO GO BACK TO VIDEO. I LOST ABOUT 30 SECONDS RECONNECTING WITH INTERNET ISSUES HERE
- **If the user…**
  - *Has submitted for travel reimbursement before*: Reflecting on your experience, how does this process relate to your previous experience of submitting for travel reimbursement?
    - Not worth the stress, unless you follow-up. Not worth the fight for 16 dollars MAY HAVE MISSED THE BEGINNING OF THE RESPONSE DUE TO INTERNET OUTAGE
  - *Has not submitted for travel reimbursement before*: Reflecting on your experience, how does this process relate other experiences at the VA?
4. Anything else you want to share that we haven’t already covered?

---

## Second Version - B

### Questions from: “Expenses” page

1. Tell me what you are looking at.
  - Well the expense category, which makes a lot more sense. I guess you could click on the ones (item categories) appropriate for you. 
2. Thinking of your last trip, what do you think you can be reimbursed for?
  - Miles, parking and tolls
3. What expect next?
  - Just hit next because I have the three categories. A lot more friendly
  - Probably the same screen again, but it might calculate it a little differently

---

### Questions from: “Trip Info” page

1. Tell me what you are looking at.
  - The appointment, starting address, would have to confirm yes. Almost the same thing
  - Expecting?
    - Yep
2. What do you think would happen if you clicked “Primary travel method”?
  - Confirms necessary things
3. What do you think is next?
  - Well, I am going to see review. Well I am going to have to upload the receipts

---

### Questions from: "Receipts" page

1. Tell me what you are looking at.
  - Yeah, this is a lot easier
  - Why
    - The parking in this column, tolls in this column. It is just user friendly. Even if putting the same information in there. Might be quicker for the person on the receiving end 
2. What do you think you can do here? What tells you that?
  - Receipt details
    - So yeah the amount, the date, and the parking garage. SO it sounds like when you scan it, they are going to take the information off the receipt and put it in there for you
  - What makes you think that?
    - Didn’t put a dollar amount or date. I guess the system is going to look and see parking receipt and take the pertinent info. You can verify the amount, the date. The note may not be there so you may write that in but it sounds like it takes some information from that
3. What do you think you need to do here? Why?
  - See the toll. The thing you uploaded there. 
  - Just verify info
  - Will see a review and from the review will tell you the dollar amount of what was the total, verify recipes vs. mileage.


---

### Questions from: “Review” page

1. Tell me what you are looking at.
  - Trip summary, which is important, starting address, personal vehicle, looking at toll receipt and parking fee and reimbursement. And just make sure the estimate is correct
2. Do you think that you have submitted your request?
  - Just submit, cause you uploaded the receipts
3. What do you think happens next? What tells you so?
4. What do you think you can do from here?
  - Confirmation number

---

### Questions from: “Submit” page

1. Tell me what you are looking at.
  - A confirmation number. 
  - Yes, what expecting to see
2. Do you think that you have submitted your request?
  - Just submit, cause you uploaded the receipts
3. What do you think happens next? What tells you so?
4. What do you think you can do from here?
  - Confirmation number
5. Toll receipt question
  - In Texas, there is no toll. I guess if you wanted to get reimbursed for the toll. The way it is, you have a T on your car. I guess I would have to go to the app and find out and match the date and time I was on the road and then I would have to calculate and turn that into a pdf and upload it to get the proper fare and get properly reimbursed. Most places are ticketless. So that is gonna be a problem for people. You don’t get a ticket (paper receipt). I have to go to the website and cut and paste. 

---

### Reflection Questions

1. On a scale of 1 to 10, how easy or difficult would you say this process was? What makes you say so? *Probe*
  - Give it a 1.5 again just because you have to upload receipts. But it made it a little more user friendly, able to click on the thing (categories). Again, I think this process may be easier for people on the receiving end of it to verify everything. Possibly spend less time on each claim/verification process. Not sure how it is done, but may speed up the process. 
2. What would you change about this process? *Probe*
  - Anything besides upload
    - No, I wouldn’t change anything
  - Again, a help screen to help people manage through this. 
  - Spanish 
3 What would you keep about this process? *Probe*
  - Individual items - this one more user friendly, I think people will catch on more quickly
- **If the user…**
  - *Has submitted for travel reimbursement before*: Reflecting on your experience, how does this process relate to your previous experience of submitting for travel reimbursement?
  - *Has not submitted for travel reimbursement before*: Reflecting on your experience, how does this process relate other experiences at the VA?
4. Anything else you want to share that we haven’t already covered?

---

## Comparison Questions

1. Which of these processes did you find easier? What makes you say so?
  - Second (Version B)
    - Well I like the idea of where I was able to click a vehicle, toll, and parking. So when I were to look at my review, it would remind me of those three things I submitted for reimbursement
2. Of everything that you looked at today, what would you say was the most confusing to you and why?
  - Just uploading those receipts 
  - And tolls - you don’t get a ticket or a receipt, you don’t even know if you are on a toll. 
3. What about these processes would you keep?
4. Is there anything else you would like to share that we have not covered?
  - No, again the other thing is the appointment. If it isn’t in your appointments that hasn’t been confirmed by the VA and doesn't show up, that is a struggle. Need someone on the VA side to confirm you had the appointment and that takes time. I don’t know how you get around that. I have had that happen. That is a huge problem. Took me two months to get reimbursed one time
  - How was that resolved?
    - So I had to call the primary care and just to verify and they said yes you had an appointment. One computer system not talking to the other. Upload a copy of the appointment slip. And sometimes they accept that and sometimes not. What more do you want from this? 
    - It is not worth the trouble. Spending too much time trying to get $16. It was more or less the principle, not the money itself. It is just aggravating and waiting on the call back. They have 3 days to call you back 

