# VA Travel Reimbursement Interview Questions

## First Version (B)

### Past Experiences

1. How do you typically get to your VA medical appointments?
- I drive. My clinic is only 3-5 miles or a 10-minute ride away. I was told by someone in travel to put them in because you get $6-18. I did. But you don’t get paid for going 3-4 miles. It never did anything. I was given bad advice. In the last session, I heard they don’t pay under 40 miles. I asked how long that’s been in place. For a long time, apparently. So I was given bad advice. I used to file by paper. 
- I used to go to [city], which is 30, 50 miles away. I’d go there 3-5 times. Here’s what VA is doing (and it’s a good thing): my clinic had 25% of the building, then expanded to 50% then 75% of the building, and now it’s the whole building. So I expect I’ll be using it [travel reimbursement] less in the future. 

2. So you only submit for the ones when you travel further away?
- Right. I wasn't getting paid for the shorter trips anyway. They say it's approved, but there’s no money involved. 

3. So you submitted, it was approved, but no money?
- Right. It was ridiculous. Maybe because the VA knows what it wants and means, but they don’t always convey that to us. 
- So let’s say I went to [city] 6 times. They take $6 off the first 3, then the 4th I’d get the full reimbursement. It’s the way they set up the law. They have to deduct $18/month. They don't do it all at once. They do it $6/visit so that they don't wipe out your entire claim if you do just one claim. 
- But I was doing it for years because I was told to do it. It has nothing to do with the $18, it’s because it’s not far enough. 

4. Did you have to upload receipts?
- Yes. I just did one the other day. I used the new app on my phone. I didn’t know it existed. I guess I got an email or something. I was leery of using it, but then I tried it and it was like, oh, this is easy! The problem is I take a toll road to get there. They only pay me for the back roads because that’s the shorter distance. But I take the toll road because it’s faster. Back roads take 1.5 hours. But the interstate turnpike only takes an hour and a 5 or 10 minutes. But you can't get reimbursed from the app because you need to provide documentation that you paid the toll.
- I used to attach it when I filed it and it showed the day of my appointment. I got on the turnpike, returned. And it said it didn't have my name on it. Well, it’s just activity on Easypass. They said it needs my name. That made me laugh. You think I went around [state] to find someone who went at the same time I went? I said Ok, I get it. So I have to wait until I get an Easypass statement at the end of the month. They do that once a month. I had to download my entire statement (2 pages) and attach that. I used to eat the tolls. But I’m not eating them anymore. 

[As we get prototype set up]: Thanks for our time, it really does help us make it better for Veterans.
- And it has gotten better!

---

### Questions from: Intro page

- Is this the app that’s on my phone that’ll change, or is this on the access VA homepage?
- Moderator: This doesn’t exist anywhere. It’s a concept we’re working on to get ideas of how we can enhance the app on the website. 

1. Tell me what you are looking at.
- It says “what you’ll need before you start.” That’s what I do now. It’s not different. 

2. Do you think you can be reimbursed? What tells you that?
- Yes. They want digital copies of the receipt. Dates and amounts–you’ve got to put it in there. When I do it on the app on my phone without the toll, I don’t have to put any of that. It knows it's me, so it puts in the mileage. But then I had to go back to VA, BSS or whatever it’s called… there I need copies of the tolls. So yes, I can get reimbursed. 

3. What do you think that you need to know in order to get reimbursed? What tells you that?
- Just a scanned PDF of the tolls.
- It used to be easier. Easypass charges you $1/month. They used to mail you the statement. They no longer do that but still charge you $1. So what I have to do is go to the webpage, my account, and it shows everything: my car, my activity, the amount. So I did that. It’s annoying, but that’s not the VA’s fault. That’s Easypass. It’s got to have my name on it. They don’t want the activity, even if it has the time on it. It’s an extra step, but it is what it is. 

4. Anything you have questions about?
- No.

5. Looking at this page, what do you expect to happen next? What tells you that?
- I do direct deposit to my checking account. It used to take 3-4 weeks, now it’s more like 7-10 days, so it’s gotten better. And the only way I know is I check my account and see a deposit from the government and it matches what I should be getting. 


---

### Questions from: “Trip Info” page

1. Tell me what you are looking at.
(Missed what the participant said)
- I would click on mileage, parking fees, and tolls. I wouldn’t click the others. 

2. What can you be reimbursed for?
- Mileage, parking fees, and tolls. [Participant clicks the appropriate checkboxes.]
- Oh I see, it puts them below. I like that. It confirms that you clicked the ones you should have. 

3. What do you expect on the next page?
- Confirmation. Or wait, you’ll put in the information.
- Appointment details–you currently don’t see that. It shows the date, you had to put the time. You didn’t have to put the provider, the appointment… you didn't have to do any of that. Just the time and what’s the visit for. For example, an examination. 
- The starting address is in the system. 
- [Participant reads through the section.] Ok. The only thing that's different from what I’m used to is the appointment details. I wonder why they need that. So long as the system has it... I didn't make it up. So why do they need that? The date, facility, but dept provider, department ID, I don't know why that's necessary. Who would use that? Now you’re just adding data into the system. Who' s gonna go look at that? No one, trust me. 

4. What happens if you click confirm?
- It’ll confirm my address. 
[Please click it.]
- Oh, I didn't realize I could!

5. What happens with the primary travel method?
- Well, it gives me the option of uber, taxi, I assume. [Click dropwon] Yeah, ok. That's fine. 
- Roundtrip, yes. 
- Total miles: yeah, whatever those are. They calculate that. You can’t do it. You can protest the miles if you think it’s wrong. But in my experience of 20 years in the system, they use that as the crow flies. They don't care how you get there. They're not paying you for it. They’ll reimburse for the tolls, but not the actual mileage. There was a time they did, and I think they shouldn't have because all of a sudden it stopped. 

6. What do you expect next?
- It’ll confirm everything is there. _(Notetaker thoughts: change button to say "Next: upload receipt"?)_

---

### Questions from: “Receipts” page

1. Tell me what you are looking at.
- This does make it a little easier than what we currently use. You can't do it on the app on the phone, but in the system, it's convoluted. I know how to do it because I've done it for so many years. It still makes you have to do this, that, attach the file. It's not intuitive. Now that I don't have to do it as often–months between doing it–I have to remember to do stuff. 

2. What do you think you can do here? What tells you that?
- I’ll do tolls. Amount, dates, notes optional. I could put in [state] turnpike. Then choose the files.

3. How do you currency upload files?
- I print PDF [to save it to my computer/save it as a PDF]. Then when it asks me I browse the file I upload it.

4. Does this match what you expected?
- Yeah.

5. Anything else you think you need to do here?
- No.

6. If the info is not correct, could you change it?
- Yes, looks like I could. 

7. What's the next step after this?
- [Participant navigates to the next screen] Review, which is what I would have thought before I saw this.  


---

### Questions from: “Review” page

1. Tell me what you are looking at. Is this what you expect to see?
- Perfect, nothing wrong here. But they don't show that $6 deductible. That's what happens now–it shows it. The first time it happened I said wait, this is not the same amount. So maybe they should show it. That would be nice. Total estimated, then maybe put in here “less deductible."

2. If something wasn't correct, what would you do?
- I don't know, could I go back a page? You’d need to do that. Let’s say you had 2 trips up there and tolls were different. (me: tell them how to do multiple trips.) And if I put the wrong toll receipt in, I’d need to correct it. 

3. What do you think is next?
Probably what I see on this page. Maybe condensed. It wont repeat all of this. 

---

### Questions from: “Submission confirmed” page

1. Tell me what you are looking at.
- Ok! A confirmation number… I like that. If there are any issues, you have a confirmation number to call travel people and they can look it up. Right now if I have an issue, which I have, they don't always answer their phones, but they do get back to you. I leave my last name, last 4 of social, then they call back. One time they said I filed 2 claims to the same trip. I said no I didn’t. They said yes you did. I said no. I said I filed mileage then when I got my Easypass statement, I filed a claim for the tolls. And someone there is confusing the 2 claims, thinking it’s a duplicate. She looked it up and said you’re right. 
- _(Notetaker thought: Do you need to have all the receipts at once? Should we tell the user that?)_
- This would help. It’s more definitive. 

---

### Reflection Questions

1. On a scale of 1 to 10, how easy or difficult would you say this process was? What makes you say so? *Probe*
- 2 or 3. Because I’ve been doing it. I don’t know if it would be easy for someone just starting to do it. It's not difficult. 
- I get email confirmations about appointments, letters, texts, and phone calls. And when I go to VA and am told by a provider that someone didn't show up, I’m flabbergasted. How do you miss that with all the reminders all these people give you? To me, this is easier. I like this. But people…. How can you miss an appointment? You get so many reminders. So this might be cumbersome to someone like that who doesn't read emails, open text messages. 
- So for me, this could almost be a 1 because I’m used to it. And I like it. It’s clearer than what you have to do today. Today it’s page this, back and forth. I like this better. It takes you through the steps; it can’t get clearer than that. 

---

## Second Version (A)

### Questions from: “Expenses” page

_(We pushed through this page due to time constraints)_

---

### Questions from: “Trip Info” page

1. Tell me what you are looking at.
- This hasn’t changed. This doesn’t look different. 

3. What do you think is next?
- Oh, it is a little different. [Participant looks at the top of the page.] Well, it's going to ask for receipts next.

---

### Questions from: "Receipts" page

1. Tell me what you are looking at.
- Add a receipt. But it's not asking if it's for parking or tolls. Will it know what it's for? This is easier, don't get me wrong. But the other one is very specific. Lodging, meals, etc. My brother is rated 100% disability in [state]. If he had to go far, they'd have to stay somewhere. He has to use a walker or wheelchair so his wife takes him. They'd need to put more information in. But for me it’s only ever tolls. So this is easier for me, but maybe not easier for folks with multiple receipts. 

2. What do you think you need to do here? Why?
- [Clicks the receipt.] Oh I see. This isn’t bad. If you upload the files… [pause], it kind of knows. I don’t know. How did it know it was toll or parking? 

3. Would it know it automatically or would you have to enter it? 
- I think I have to enter it.

4. Is that annoying?
- Yeah. 
- Then you could enter another receipt if you had to. 

5. What happens next?
- We did it already. The review, like we did before.

6. What do you think is next?
- Same as last time.

---

### Questions from: “Review” page

1. Tell me what you are looking at.
- So what you've done is eliminate a step on this version compared to the first one. 
It's not difficult. Listen, the people who design this stuff, it’s clear to them. But you have to understand that you're dealing with people who don't have your level of tech expertise. I go to the VA, it's the only medical I have. I don't go outside VA unless it's community care that they sent me to. I hear people that say the VA is terrible. No, they’re not. I don't understand that. It's because their personal experience was terrible in their mind. VA is the federal government, a bureaucracy, and they set this up because it's what they need. I'm an Army Veteran, I've worked for major corporations before I retired. I'm used to it. If they got out, worked for themselves, never worked for a corporation, then went into the VA system, it's a lot. Look what I have to do to get care! I have a friend, a Navy Vet who didn’t go to VA. Now that's all he uses and he's on a campaign to convert Vets to use the VA. So this isn't cumbersome to me. It might be annoying to someone who has to do it the first few times. But it's not rocket science. 

---

### Questions from: “Submit” page

1. Tell me what you are looking at.
- I would like this, I would prefer current in use, I think it’s easier. [Clarify what user meant from recording] On the phone app, you hit it and it takes care of filing mileage. It doesn't get any easier than that. So I wouldn't have to do this process anymore except for the case of tolls. 
I have to do that every time. It’s annoying. I have to remember to do it otherwise I'm out of pocket $8. I never filed tolls for years because it was just $3-4. Then it kept creeping up. Once it reached $6, I said I’m not going to not submit anymore. Then I started submitting tolls. I could do it at the same time in the system if Easypass gave me that info. If the appointment was the 1st or 2nd of the month and Easypass didn’t give me a statement until the 28th, I would have to wait until the end of the month to file. But now that I'm not getting statements I can do it at that same time, but not on the mobile app. That’s strictly for the trip mileage. 
- On the computer, it usually has your appointment there. I’m on … well, VA.gov. But for tolls, I have to go to BTS... the travel portal. 

### Reflection Questions

1. You mentioned you like to call. Would you also be open to a live chat?
2. On a scale of 1 to 10, how easy or difficult would you say this process was? What makes you say so? *Probe*
3. Easier than the last one?
4. What would you change about this process? *Probe*
5. What would you keep about this process? *Probe*
6. Anything else you want to share that we haven’t already covered?

---

## Comparison Questions

1. Which of these processes did you find easier? What makes you say so?
- Maybe the 2nd one. Slightly. It removed a step. But you still have to provide the same information. [Participant later changes his mind.]
- I was going to log into the app to show you, but it's making me log in. You look at past appointments and it's just a few clicks and it files the claim. 

3. Of everything that you looked at today, what would you say was the most confusing to you and why?
- Not really.

4. Was there any point when preparing to make an appointment or making the appointment that you were told to collect and save your receipts?
- I actually like the first one a little better even though there was an additional step. It was a little clearer. But neither one was difficult. It might be the first time you do it, but if you go regularly, after once or twice there’d be no issue. 

5. Were you ever told to collect receipts?
- I’m grateful for the constantine effort to improve. It was cumbersome years ago and it got better. And now with the app on the phone, it’s even better. So the fact that they think about it and try to make it easier is a credit to the VA. 

