# VA Travel Reimbursement Interview Questions

## First Version

### Past Experiences

1. How do you typically get to your VA medical appointments?
  drive self
2. Have you ever submitted to be reimbursed for traveling for your VA medical appointment?
no - why not? paltry distance
3. If you have submitted to be reimbursed for traveling before, did you have to upload evidence like receipts? Please describe your experience.
4. What are your expectations about Veterans being reimbursed for traveling for VA medical care?

---

### Questions from: Intro page

1. Tell me what you are looking at.
Looking down the list with the yellow background - make sure I have any receipts for tolls and whatnot. Making sure receipts have dates on them.
Starting address would be home address. I understand the information required on the background.

Blue background - Id choose tolls, maybe parking.
would have to enter in information - noted he'd have to previously scan the receipts?
2. Do you think you can be reimbursed? What tells you that?
for this hypothetical trip, I would hope so. Unsure because he's never done it before
3. What do you think that you need to know in order to get reimbursed? What tells you that?
need to have receipts, know where he started/finished. need receipts for parking, tolls. Probably the va wouldn't do dollar for dollor gas reimbursement, so would need distance traveled. 
4. What items or information do you think that you will need to complete this process? What tells you that?
See above - yellow box tells him that
5. Looking at this page, what do you expect to happen next? What tells you that?
after clicking submit, expect some ack of receipt. expecting a confirmation page after submission
---

### Questions from: “Trip Info” page

1. Tell me what you are looking at.
Looks like the mirror image of the one I did before. Preloads the destination and verification of where he started. Allowing him to select travel type and mileage.
2. What do you think you can do here? What tells you that?
3. What do you think you need to do here? Why?
Ask for receipts - The breadcrumb that says "receipts" tells him that he'll be able to submit receipts next
---

### Questions from: “Receipts” page

1. Tell me what you are looking at.
Looking at opp to upload any receipts
2. What do you think you can do here? What tells you that?
Go to desktop, select receipts and put them in where it says

(after choosing files)
looks like I had a toll and parking. Trying to work out where the 11.50 came from (add another receipt)

What does the info in the fields tell you about your receipts:
tells dollar amount and what it was, and who the recipient of the pay ment was
3. What do you think you need to do here? Why?
Might add another receipt if need to add lunch, maybe it's asking for another parking ticket

What happens after?
Summary and opportunity to correct
---

### Questions from: “Review” page

1. Tell me what you are looking at.
Just a review of all the information. Opp to accept or go back and edit.
2. What do you think you can do here? What tells you that?
Forward or reverse, no other options to do things
3. What do you think you need to do here? Why?
4. What do you think is next?
Think it'll give me conf number, advise that it will email him


---

### Questions from: “Submission confirmed” page

1. Tell me what you are looking at.
Wondering if he's ever submitted his email address, wonders if that's on file. Wants further contact after submitting
2. What do you think happens next? What tells you so?
3. What do you think you can do from here?

---

### Reflection Questions

1. On a scale of 1 to 10, how easy or difficult would you say this process was? What makes you say so? *Probe*
(1.5) pretty easy, on first or second screen - categorizing futre screens (gathering information about trip, expenses). Likes the foreshadowing
2. What would you add, change, or remove about this process? *Probe*
If there was no email input, would add that. didn't see any way to input meal expenses or lodging. 
3. What would you keep about this process? *Probe*
Logical sequence. Liked them both, preferred this one slightly better b/c itemized information that was going to be asked for in the next couple screens
- **If the user…**
  - *Has submitted for travel reimbursement before*: Reflecting on your experience, how does this process relate to your previous experience of submitting for travel reimbursement?
  - *Has not submitted for travel reimbursement before*: Reflecting on your experience, how does this process relate other experiences at the VA?
1. Anything else you want to share that we haven’t already covered?

---

## Second Version

### Questions from: “Expenses” page

1. Tell me what you are looking at.
Instead of previous guess, thinking now he'd put in nitty gritty. Mileage, dollar amount, tolls, bus, uber... etc.
2. Thinking of your last trip, what do you think you can be reimbursed for?
assume all of these itemized here. 
Is this what you'd expect?
"seems more generous than I would expect"

what would happen next?
ask me the particulars - mileage, etc. Ask for images of parking and tolls.
---

### Questions from: “Trip Info” page

1. Tell me what you are looking at.
they want to get particulars about where I was coming from, how I got there. Looking to verify one-way or round trip - looped this into the amount put down for total mileage. 

Thought destination would be pre-populated, but this turned out to be a misunderstanding.

Clicked the starting address dropdown, understood that he could hypothetically enter a different address ("granddaughter's house")
2. What do you think would happen if you clicked “Primary travel method”?
3. What do you think is next?
Add receipts for tolls and parking.

---

### Questions from: "Receipts" page

1. Tell me what you are looking at.
Wondering how many people would not have the capability to scan receipts and generate images that can be uploaded.
Have you done this?
yes

what does that look like?
similar to this - choose files, navigate to stored files, select them

Might be difficult or impossible if they don't have a scanner. Suppose they could take a photo with a smart phone..
2. What do you think you can do here? What tells you that?
Drag/drop. select appropriate files for tolls/parking. That's all.

3. What do you think you need to do here? Why?

what do you see after clicking 'choose files', pretend that is your receipt.
if I selected the wrong one, it might give the opportunity to go back and select the right one.

Expected next?
Ask about food bills, and lodging. 
---

### Questions from: “Review” page

1. Tell me what you are looking at.
Summary of previous submitted, gives opp to correct. Unsure what other expenses refers to.
2. What do you think you can do here? What tells you that?
Looks like all I can do is submit. Verify and submit. Or could go back if there's some error (e.g. wrong file uploaded)
3. What do you think you need to do here? Why?
only options are forward and backwards. Submit or correct
4. What do you think is next?
confirmation and ask about lodging. or not sure if the $11.50 (other expenses) was a big mac or what

---

### Questions from: “Submit” page

1. Tell me what you are looking at.
"Didn't care if i selpt in a tent or a hotel room". Seems to expect lodging expenses despite not selecting it at the beginning.
2. Do you think that you have submitted your request?
Yes. Confirmation number tells him it is submitted
3. What do you think happens next? What tells you so?
thinks it will send him an email with the info on this screen.
5. What do you think you can do from here?
"This is the end of the road"

---

### Reflection Questions

1. On a scale of 1 to 10, how easy or difficult would you say this process was? What makes you say so? *Probe*
a 2 - pretty easy. Done some of these prior, agonizing because given 2 possible screens and judge the 2 (talking about the interview process)
2. What would you change about this process? *Probe*
In the hypothetical - didn't see the opportunity to stay overnight or get a meal. as I got 2 or 3 steps in, I didn't see the opportunity to add those. "I don't remember selecting 'I didn't have to stay overnight'"
3 What would you keep about this process? *Probe*
On the first screen - yellow background box, in each case there were little hints. Overall very fluid, very obvious what tasks needed to be accomplished
- **If the user…**
  - *Has submitted for travel reimbursement before*: Reflecting on your experience, how does this process relate to your previous experience of submitting for travel reimbursement?
  - *Has not submitted for travel reimbursement before*: Reflecting on your experience, how does this process relate other experiences at the VA?
    - most interactions have been via MHV - secure messaging. Hasn't involved any forms. hasn't done too many claims/forms submissions at VA

1. Anything else you want to share that we haven’t already covered?
Quite impressed with it - user friendly. Do a lot of computer stuff. There are some Vets that don't have the knowledge or capability to scan receipts and make those available. Don't know how you'd verify those without receipts.

---

## Comparison Questions

1. Which of these processes did you find easier? What makes you say so?
The second one we did because of the previous
2. Of everything that you looked at today, what would you say was the most confusing to you and why?
Didn't find anything confusing
3. What about these processes would you keep?
4. Is there anything else you would like to share that we have not covered?
Other than inability of some folks to provided scanned receipts. If someone went down to the VA, they might be able to scan them. Ultimately in this case he thinks submission would happen at the VA, in person
