# VA Travel Reimbursement Interview Questions (Order BA)- participant on their mobile phone

## First Version A (Second in this interview)

### Past Experiences

1. How do you typically get to your VA medical appointments?
  - 99% drive 
  - Sometimes someone else drives or I ride with someone going to a same appointment the same day. At that point, two people can't double dip so only one of us can take the travel miles
2. Have you ever submitted to be reimbursed for traveling for your VA medical appointment?
  - Yes - photograph attach files, sometimes they allow it, sometimes they disallow it. Dance around with it as the VA sometimes does. It is one of those things, I had a parking thing that was disallowed, every once and a while they will counter the mileage. But I susa;;y do the mileage based on their map. I have 3 different routes (very a lot), usually do the longer miles because it is faster. Worth it for the level of care I get
  - Challenged or appealed - no, one time it was $30 for parking, just figured it was a donation to Vanderbilt and not worth fooling with 
3. If you have submitted to be reimbursed for traveling before, did you have to upload evidence like receipts? Please describe your experience.
4. What are your expectations about Veterans being reimbursed for traveling for VA medical care?
  - Well, the current BTSSS is kind of funny. It was a little bit weird to get engaged with it, but I've got it down and really know how to do it and know the ins and outs and its not chinese arithmetic at this point
  - I really like the system now. I can check out of my appointment at the VA and sit down and hit the thing and it is good to go
  - Receipts:
    - I've been doing this for so long. I used to go to a window and you submit your travel claim and they pay you in cash. Phased out about 15 years ago. Not they do direct deposit. When they went from cash to mailing a check, threw a lot of Veterans off, go to the VA expecting to have cash to pay for gas on the way home. Caught people in that situation and just pay someone $20 and then he would get that money back from them. Hey, I am short, this is what is going on. 
    - I think at the time I may have submitted the receipt straight across or mailed it in. THe one or two times that I submitted by taking the photograph and sending it in they just…it cost them more to send me a letter to deny it then it would have to pay me,, but I just tossed up my hands and said whatever

---

### Questions from: Intro page (For version A and second time looking at intro page)

1. Tell me what you are looking at.
  - This time notes the mileage rate for info page
2. Do you think you can be reimbursed? What tells you that?
3. What do you think that you need to know in order to get reimbursed? What tells you that?
4. What items or information do you think that you will need to complete this process? What tells you that?
5. Looking at this page, what do you expect to happen next? What tells you that?
  - I would put helpful tips and past appointments above “here is what we would do together” - talk to them about what they are doing, submitting a travel claim for this date and this appointment and then go into trip details and here is what we will do
  - Would go - helpful tips and past appointments, then get started and skip over the 4 boxes. Had 5 boxes before if memory serves
    - Doesn’t recall what is different 
  - Categorize expenses got squeezed into trip details

---

### Questions from: “Trip Info” page

1. Tell me what you are looking at.
  - You consolidated it 
  - It is doing all of that in one shot and that is a great thing. It is a truly great thing
  - Digging in on categories/expense types:
    - Nope, not on this screen - where might you see it in this process?
      - On the next screen
2. What do you think you can do here? What tells you that?
3. What do you think you need to do here? Why?
  - Check boxes for various additional expenses. If I was just doing mileage I would hit next and it would ask tolls, parking, etc, and wouldn’t check anything and just hit next again

---

### Questions from: “Receipts” page

1. Tell me what you are looking at.
  - Not asking for the types of receipts. Not asking toll, parking, just asking for the receipt itself, which I would have screen between last one and this one where they do the check boxes for type of receipt
  - If I just add a receipt it isn’t annotated as to what type of receipt. Wants to put toll receipt in toll receipt box and parking in the parking box
  - What do you think you will see when dragging in receipts:
    - Go into a review scenario where I have to check on which each receipt is for (predicated on the menu up top)
    - Expecting to see?
      - Yeah, but I am having to key in that it is a toll when I could have checked a box and that would have been done already. At this point I am having to remember what the receipts are because I can’t see them. I may be having to guess and I may guess wrong 
2. What do you think you can do here? What tells you that?
3. What do you think you need to do here? Why?
  - It should be a compilation of the two receipts plus the mileage in some sort of a format that reaps all the clicks and balances

---

### Questions from: “Review” page

1. Tell me what you are looking at.
  - The appointment, good, facility, good, starting address, yes, personal vehicle, yes…mileage still one way. Have 47 miles as total, which is incorrect, I had to put in the receipt titles and guess which was which based on the photos I clicked on. WOuld probably have trouble remember which was which and would need to go back and look again and do one at a time
2. What do you think you can do here? What tells you that?
3. What do you think you need to do here? Why?
4. What do you think is next?
  - Submitting and predicated on the other one and submitting it as true and correct without having to express it is true and correct

---

### Questions from: “Submission confirmed” page

1. Tell me what you are looking at.
  - Which could mean I submitted fake receipts
  - Every military person in the world, whenever they have a document to sign there is always boiler plate, they have to initial and sign. There is a whole process for executing a form in the military, I certify everything is true and correct whether I read it or not. Protects chain of command 
2. What do you think happens next? What tells you so?
3. What do you think you can do from here?

---

### Reflection Questions

1. On a scale of 1 to 10, how easy or difficult would you say this process was? What makes you say so? *Probe*
  - Either the first one was better or this one was better by degrees, kind of neck and neck. Appreciate the consolidation of 5 steps into 4. But the check boxes on the other one was better
  - Let’s call it a 3. 
2. What would you add, change, or remove about this process? *Probe*
3. What would you keep about this process? *Probe*
- **If the user…**
  - *Has submitted for travel reimbursement before*: Reflecting on your experience, how does this process relate to your previous experience of submitting for travel reimbursement?
  - *Has not submitted for travel reimbursement before*: Reflecting on your experience, how does this process relate other experiences at the VA?
4. Anything else you want to share that we haven’t already covered?

---

## Second Version - B, but B was first in this interview

### Questions from: "Intro" page
1. Tell me what you are looking at.
  - I would scroll down here
  - Well I see something that is rather friendly, the welcome and let’s get your travel expenses reimbursed, very welcoming, I like that a bunch
  - I need copies of receipts and take pictures, dates and amounts
  - Starting address, which will probably pop up and mileage which I expect would be done the same as BTSSS
  - I would select, confirm, upload, and then submit - it is a nice flow
    - Well, I am kind of expecting to start with expense categories and when I click on that I would expect to see confirm trip details instead of a back button, tat is what I would appreciate to keep the flow and now have to come back to this page
    - Honestly, I would dump the other 5 and say let’s get started, select your expense categories, as soon as I do that show the next step (confirm trip details) from the expense page
      - Confirming - only show the first step to get started and THEN show the next steps. Expense categories only selection option to begin with and then confirm trip details at the bottom of expense categories
      - Seeing those 5 blocks are a little daunting to a simple mind 
      - So many Veterans are not adept with this stuff, still freaking out about BTSSS and have to have their grandkids help them. A lot of regret and remorse, a lot don’t have smart phones have fold phones
  - How many days to drive to Minneapolis? (joke)
  - Notes the helpful tips, reads through those. Pretty good easy thing to get (in regards to the photo format)
  - Is that a real number at the VA that will be answered by a human? Make sure it is an active number 
  - Past appointment, that is all good - absolutely the information would want to see. With all the stuff that goes on with the appointment side of this. Need to get a hold of appointment side, a block of information that doesn’t say where to go. It is a nightmare. I see your work, I have been working with you guys 10-15 years. I have seen the work, you are doing awesome things
2. Looking at this page, what do you expect to happen next? What tells you that?
  - Gonna see, select your expense categories
  - And I hate that at the bottom as you well know already

### Questions from: “Expenses” page

1. Tell me what you are looking at.
  - Mileage, Id go for right off the bat
  - I would click on all three just for sport, I am pleased that I could check all three. I was half expecting to click mileage, do mileage, then have to go back and do parking fees, do that, then go back and have 6 operations. 
  - On the next page, would surmise it has all three
2. Thinking of your last trip, what do you think you can be reimbursed for?
  - On the next page, would surmise it has all three - to go next
  - Nice to see a shopping basket (dotted lines) at the bottom

---

### Questions from: “Trip Info” page

1. Tell me what you are looking at.
  - Trip info, starting address, clicks on the drop down and confirms address, confirms round trip
  - Total miles - on BTSSS there is a map that shows 3 different routes for me. And I am not seeing a map so I would guess I would need to put in how many miles..OH okay it is automatically calculated, got it
  - What if you knew miles were different? How to handle that?
    - I would click on the box with the 47 in it and recalculate
    - I am somewhere around 280 miles round trip, the long way but the fastest way. So I would put 280 and would half expect them to kick it out or send me a letter saying I am full of nonsense. Within certain parameters, if you come up with 47and I say it is 56, expect a fudge factor 20 miles on either side
2. What do you think would happen if you clicked “Primary travel method”?
3. What do you think is next?
  - Well, on my list here (refers to steps up top) it says receipts

---

### Questions from: "Receipts" page

1. Tell me what you are looking at.
  - Still got the menu, as I clicked earlier, I would say choose files because I’ve got the pictures
  - Receipts in the past, manage files:
    - I always take a picture, would choose file, go to photos and send the applicable photos
    - Info fields:
      - Usually a timer, downloads/uploads, says finished and shows a file number and name and I know that I sent the right thing
    - Then clicks on upload receipts and we ask again what he thinks:
      - I see that the date is probably correct on both of them. I would expect to have to put a minimal amount of information there. The same thing with the toll. ID what road I was on, also cross reference and tell them the route I took
      - Automatic?
        - There are ways receipts could be automatically populated, but I don’t see that as a rational expectation for me at this time
        - And I don’t know if people would appreciate, part of me says get them to manually put that in because it would go haywire the other way, reads $17 instead of June 17. Maybe date could be correct because date of the appointment 
2. What do you think you can do here? What tells you that?
3. What do you think you need to do here? Why?
  - I will review it, should be a compilation

---

### Questions from: “Review” page

1. Tell me what you are looking at.
  - I’ve got the mileage, first box, parking, second box, which is accurate, tolls as well. I am seeing my fake receipt is in both of those. So I am good to go as far as everything is done, so at the bottom it has the estimated reimbursement and it looks squared up
2. What do you think you can do here? What tells you that?
3. What do you think you need to do here? Why?
4. What do you think is next?
  - Certify this is true and correct, didn’t accept or ride with anyone else?
  - Gonna submit - should have a thing where I check off and electronically sign stating I didn’t engage in fraudulent behavior
  - What does mileage mean to you?
    - Should mean round trip - at 47 miles, that reimbursement looks like one way
    - Asks about the rate of reimbursement 
    - On the trip info, the total would be that 47 and then round trip would be 94. I would go so far as to explaining them. That is the way it is on  BTSSS, it says 127 miles one way and then it computes for a round trip. And going ahead and showing them that that has been figured out will prevent them from freaking out thinking it got missed

---

### Questions from: “Submit” page

1. Tell me what you are looking at.
  - It has been submitted, timeline, need help, submit another request, confirmation number, good on that
  - Where you have missed, there has to be some sort of sign off that all of this is true and correct under felony of perjury and incarceration
  - If someone figures out they can do this any way they want to, they could say while I did it wrong
  - This is a contract - I have got a contract with you for reimbursement 
  - With BTSSS have to sign off and click a box, the above is true and correct, didn’t get a ride with someone else also going, I didn’t ride the bus
2. Do you think that you have submitted your request?
3. What do you think happens next? What tells you so?
4. What do you think you can do from here?

---

### Reflection Questions

1. On a scale of 1 to 10, how easy or difficult would you say this process was? What makes you say so? *Probe*
  - 1 - The flow is excellent. The usability of this is really solid, the backbone is good. A couple of tweaks I would do here and there, but the things i’ve enumerated up front shaken out by the end
2. What would you change about this process? *Probe*
3 What would you keep about this process? *Probe*
- **If the user…**
  - *Has submitted for travel reimbursement before*: Reflecting on your experience, how does this process relate to your previous experience of submitting for travel reimbursement?
  - *Has not submitted for travel reimbursement before*: Reflecting on your experience, how does this process relate other experiences at the VA?
4. Anything else you want to share that we haven’t already covered?

---

## Comparison Questions

1. Which of these processes did you find easier? What makes you say so?
  - Preferred first one (B), enumerated tolls and parking and that helped to keep that square where I didn’t have to remember anything
  - Likes the categorization from Version B. I can’t remember,was there an other category? 
    - Yes we do 
    - What would other category mean to you?
      - Hotel
      - Can’t think of anything else 
      - The don’t reimburse for meals I don’t think - not 100% sure, but not ever had that experience 
2. Of everything that you looked at today, what would you say was the most confusing to you and why?
  - Imagine a timer that spun until uploaded and once it is uploaded pops up as populated
3. What about these processes would you keep?
4. Is there anything else you would like to share that we have not covered?
  - No, this is very straightforward and easy to navigate. 
