# VA Travel Reimbursement Interview Questions

## First Version (A)

### Past Experiences

1. How do you typically get to your VA medical appointments?
- I drive. It depends on how far it is. The most practical means is usually to drive. I take a personal vehicle unless it’s surgery (then someone might drive me), but it’s still a personal vehicle. 

2. Have you ever submitted to be reimbursed for traveling for your VA medical appointment?
- No.

3. Why not?
- Most of my appointments are in town, so I don’t think it’d be that much. And I don't see an easy path… I assume it would be a pain in the ass. I've never looked into it.

4. What are your expectations about Veterans being reimbursed for traveling for VA medical care?
- It’d be nice if it's a direct deposit and processed quickly. But I’m no where there [no where near wanting to submit a claim]. 
- Most of my appointments are a couple hours away. I have a clinic near home. It might be 10 miles away or something, but it’s in the city. 

---

### Questions from: Intro page

1. Tell me what you are looking at.
- In that scenario, $20 is my threshold. If it’s over that, I’ll worry about submitting a reimbursement. I’m sure it’s a pain in the ass. I’ve been in that scenario before and never thought about seeking reimbursement. I’ll eat the cost unless it’s over $20. 

2. Do you think you can be reimbursed? What tells you that?
- I’m sure there’s a path because VA has all my bank information. 

3. What do you think that you need to know in order to get reimbursed? What tells you that?
- The procedure. Is it scan your receipt, copy them, email them, or is it a kiosk? I’m interested in whatever’s easiest. I can let go of $10-20 for convenience. If there was a kiosk or the receptionist who checks you in… I don’t know, something like that. But I imagine adding digital copies of my receipt... I’ve got 2 kids, I coach soccer, I don't have time for that. My receipts are gone in 5 minutes. 

4. What items or information do you think that you will need to complete this process? What tells you that?
- I'm still on the what we need section. [Moderator encourages participant to scroll.]
- That’s asking a lot. I'm already at VA, why do they need my copies of my drivers licence and VA ID, if it’s a per diem?  I'm not sure how it works. [User not scrolling.] Maybe if it were more streamlined. Is there a per diem for mileage?

5. So your assumption is it's more of a flat fee?
- Right. 

6. Looking at this page, what do you expect to happen next? What tells you that?[Clarifies the scenario]
- I’d ask the receptionists if I can do this here, since we’re already in my file. I don’t know if that’s available or not. 
- If it’s a trip in town I wouldn’t file anything. It depends on what it’s asking and what the procedure is. Does it need your licence, copies of receipts, or just home address, where the clinic is, and you get a flat rate?

7. So you want to talk to someone in person?
- It seems like they should be able to do that, they know where I live and where the appointment is. Seems like they can file it. I'm not seeking for meals. It’d be nice if the receptionist did it.
- Once I leave the app… I’ve got 2 kids, soccer, receipts, I wouldn't get back to that for another couple of weeks. So if it's just $10 I get back anyway, oh well. 
- I would complain if it were 2 hours to [city], but the ones in town, I've just been eating it. 
[Moderator prompts participant to click "Get started".]

---

### Questions from: “Trip Info” page

1. Tell me what you are looking at.
- Dropdown info to put address, roundtrip, dropdown menu total miles, then next. [Reads top of page] Then it goes on to receipts, review, next.

2. On this page, what do you think would happen if you click primary travel method dropdown?
- It would say PV or bus, airplane, scuba dive, idk. Methods of travel. Bicycle, walking. 

3. Is this the info you’d expect?
- It is. Seems like they just need my address, method of travel, yes/no, and mileage. On one screen is even better. 

4. Please confirm your address/pretend starting address.
- The address on file… [I’ll answer] yes. 
- If it already knows my starting address then it seems like it should be able to do it [submit the claim automatically]. I shouldn't have to mess with this. Or maybe it could ask if it was a round trip yes/no and method of travel, but….
- Starting address, I like the dropdown.

3. What do you think happens next?
- I'd be ready to finish. I've already spent so much time. I'd be expecting to wrap this up. And it depends on how much money you’re getting back. I'm guessing they’ll ask for my ID, even though they have my address and they’re in my file. 
- And receipts, what does that do? If it's per diem, is this an extra expense? What does that do?
[Moderator prompts participant go to next page.]

---

### Questions from: “Receipts” page

1. Tell me what you are looking at.
- Yeah, the receipts. It'd be good if this were a mobile app. But doesn't look too friendly, dragging and dropping. I gotta take pics on my phone and email to my computer, get on the computer, drop and drag… you already lost me. But that’s what I think when I see this. This is where I'd turn it off. 
- 5mb is pretty small. But idk what you need receipts for anyways.
- I don’t know, these receipts could be extra expenses above per diem. That's a big ask to pop them in there. I don't see why they need them. 
- I could be totally wrong about mileage but I'm pretty sure I'm right. PV standard miles across the board. 

2. Have you ever done something where you would upload receipts or evidence?
- Well no, if it's a standard per diem mileage rate.

3. So per diem makes more sense than specific costs for parking or tolls?
- Yes, I don’t know how tolls are covered. Usually I’d just eat it. 
- But this is a very cool page, very user friendly. 
- [Moderator prompts participatn to upload files.]
- Looks like a pain in the ass, unless it's an app. I'm already spending too much time on this. Now I gotta get on the computer. Now I gotta feed the kids and bathe them. 
- But it seems like a practical way to submit receipts. If you need to submit them for reimbursement, not travel and per diem, then this is the most tactical way. It's what I'd expect. If I'm really trying to get reimbursement for receipts and I'm gonna do it, then… 

4. Moderator: Like if there was a lodging cost?
- No doubt. Then I scan them and drop them in here just like that. The procedure.

5. What do you expect to happen next?
- The next cell, or whatever else they need. I'm thinking it's almost over. 

---

### Questions from: “Review” page

1. Tell me what you are looking at.
- Review, that’s what I'd expect.
- The VA has this info already, it’d be so easy to check into your app, boom, boom, I took my PV here and done.

2. What do you think is next?
- I don't see my attachments. That’s a concern before I hit submit. Did it just send a blank form to VA? I'm not gonna hear back from them for a few months, not sure if they got my receipts because it wasn’t in the attachments. Maybe include a little icon of the receipt. In the review attachments cell, show 2 little attachments to form. I'd be a little worried about that. Maybe it’s just me. 

---

### Questions from: “Submission confirmed” page

1. Tell me what you are looking at.
- It’s a very cool form, I'm not bashing it. It's just the process. This is very easy.
- I’m noticing you can’t X out of it. Do you want me to go back or submit another one? You want to see X out or log off. I’d control out of it. But I don't want to go back to submit another one. Is there a way to X out of this screen?

---

### Reflection Questions

1. On a scale of 1 to 10, how easy or difficult would you say this process was? What makes you say so? *Probe*
- It's very easy. 3. The manual receipts are kinda… would be closer to 1 [without that].

2. What would you add, change, or remove about this process? *Probe*
- We did the review/send. Maybe it’s just me… I can’t see that they got the attachments like you do in any email. 
- If they could do this for the Veteran when they check in. Because all my info is already populated. You just answer roundtrip or method of travel. 

4. What would you keep about this process? *Probe*
- It's very simple. 4 steps. And one of them is review and send. It's a practical way to get the info to the VA. That's the only method we can do, then that's what it is. I like this process. I don't want to sound like I'm complaining, but they can do other things [to improve the process] as well. 

4. Anything else you want to share that we haven’t already covered?
- As soon as I see digital copies of your receipts, I'm already turned off. That's why I haven't submitted anything before. But I like it, nothing to add. 

---

## Second Version (B)

### Questions from: “Expenses” page

1. Tell me what you are looking at.
- It’s a Microsoft forms page, dropdown menus. [audio cut out] expense category. 
- It's confusing about what you’re approved to get reimbursed for. I stopped to get some steaks, so I'll put that? A buddy was riding with me, so I’ll put that? Is that what it's asking?
- There's an approved per diem amount. This is overload for me. I don’t know what it's asking. Select your expense? Is it for the day, or I had to get to a hotel? I don’t know. Is this for if I'm stuck at the VA? I don't know what I'm eligible for or what's an approved expense.
- If I have to go through parking and tolls, can I get reimbursed for that? I don’t know. That should be on the Vet to know what his benefits are. But I don’t know what I'm eligible for. A standard trip would be kinda hard. Do they want my meal receipts?

---

### Questions from: “Trip Info” page

1. Tell me what you are looking at.
- If they had a snippet, just 4 sentences like in this cell telling me what I’m eligible for, that’d be helpful. Just a bullet point saying “this is what's an eligible expense.”
- Yeah, the street address and others we saw in the other form. Yeah, it's laid out easy. 3 cells, I can do that really trip. They have the info, it's populated. I like this best.

---

### Questions from: "Receipts" page

1. Tell me what you are looking at.
- The files from my camera are ATIC and they don't accept that file type, so I have to convert them. It's a lot of freaking stuff it's asking for. Unless there's an app to do on your phone and upload attachments. 
- It wants your receipts and this is the easiest way to get them to you, I think. Wherever we scan receipts for normal work expenses, we put a white piece of paper and the receipt on the scanner. I was complaining earlier but that's the world we live in. It's not too bad. But I don’t know what receipt a Veteran would have. 

2. Tell me about how it's broken up differently. Does that help direct you or not?
- No it does, absolutely. And the different color of the cells, and I like the font, it’s a good size, I don't have to squint. 
- If you had a snippet saying “Can I submit reimbursement for parking?" The Vet should already know that. 

3. Pretend upload files. What do you think of these uploaded fields?
- I’m thinking… is it asking me to choose a file and drop it in, then what is this? I'd have to repopulate all this? I didn't enter it. How is it coming up? I'm just uploading a file. 

4. You'd expect to have to enter it?
- Yeah. But it's very easy–amount, date. 
- It's like when you do a mobile deposit on your bank, you have to take a picture, enter the amount, it’s 1-2 cells. That's practical. But I'm not going to enter any notes or give any more info than they ask for, especially to the VA. I’d leave notes blank. The amount, date, and reasoning… maybe that can be in notes. 
- You probably think I'm super lazy. I'm complaining about a Microsoft form. But why can’t the receptionist do this? It’s 2 questions for the Veteran. 

5. What do you expect next?
- The review screen to check everything. 

---

### Questions from: “Review” page

1. Does this match what you expected?
- Yes, it has the JPEG, so I know the file is in there. Maybe the first one had it and I missed it. A PDF of fake tolls.
- Mileage–did I put that in or did it self-populate? 
- $42... I'd hit send and that's good enough for me. I wasn't getting anything anyway. I'd say good stuff. 

2. How do you know it uses direct deposit?
- I’m not sure because I’ve never done it, but they do have my direct deposit information. I’d assume that they do direct deposit, but… if they don't wouldn't even mess with it. 
- How do you access this? It's hard enough to log in. It's a big ask.

---

### Questions from: “Submit” page

1. Tell me what you are looking at.
- I like this, the confirmation number. I’d take a screenshot if I were on my phone. I just need a way to X out of here so that you know you powered down all the way. 

2. What if it didn't come through? How would you follow up to check?
- That 1-800 number of the VA. I guess that's the only way to go. I'd call them if it's that big of a deal. 
- It'd be cool if it sent you a receipt, like a submission receipt. You’d get pinged back with an email that your submission was received. That’d be cool because you could reference that. It’d tell you it was submitted successfully. 
- The process you have here is great. I'm just bitching about little knicknacks. The form and the way it's laid out is phenomenal. 

---

### Reflection Questions

1. On a scale of 1 to 10, how easy or difficult would you say this process was? What makes you say so? *Probe*
- 2, because I saw the attachment [which I liked]. I don’t know if I saw that on the first one. I wondered if they got the attachment. 

2. What would you change about this process? *Probe*
- If it's a mobile app, that’s great. 
- I'd change the actual procedure. 
- But for this second version, it’s 5 cells, very simple. Any reasonable Veteran can knock this out and get reimbursed. I didn't see anything that would stop me except me being lazier than the average veteran. But for $40, I'll put in a couple minutes. 

3. Do you want it to auto populate the information from your receipts?
- It's asking to drag and drop, that's all I want it to do. I don’t want it to tell me what it thinks it says. The human being will handle that. If I see another field to input data, I think “Aw man, who wants to do that? I dragged it in there like the form asked me to, now I gotta do this!” I'd get rid of that all together. 

4. Anything else you want to share that we haven’t already covered?
- If it's a computer or mobile app, that's a big deciding factor for me.
- I can tell you put a lot of work into this Microsoft form. But the whole procedure, if you could streamline that, would be so much easier. Like a nurse or receptionist. It's a big ask to ask the Vet to log into the computer, not his phone, and do these things. 

5. Do you use the VA app?
- I do, yes. 

6. There’s a version of this that exists on the app where you can submit for reimbursement. You could try it! 
- My local VA has these kiosks but they’re not working. I thought that where the travel reimbursement was done. Is that still a thing? It asks the same questions. 
[Moderator said that it depends on your local VA.]

---

## Comparison Questions

1. Which of these processes did you find easier? What makes you say so?
- I found them both the same. It was weird how in this last version the cell populates with stuff the computer is reading. Do I have to go in and edit that? That's a potential roadblock.
