# VA Travel Reimbursement Interview Questions - Order B then A

## First Version - A (but participant saw A second)

### Past Experiences

1. How do you typically get to your VA medical appointments?
  - I would say, a fairly distributed three ways, public transportation, driving, and getting a ride through a nonprofit organization
  - Ride share or VA service?
    - Veteran service organization. Nonprofit but they offer that to Veterans 
2. Have you ever submitted to be reimbursed for traveling for your VA medical appointment?
  - Yes
3. If you have submitted to be reimbursed for traveling before, did you have to upload evidence like receipts? Please describe your experience.
  - No, just mileage and receipts weren’t required
  - I believe the portal is called BTSSS, I forgot what it stands for, but it looks like a VA website. It isn’t part of Va.gov portal, it looks like it is separate or external. 
  - The past two years (using portal) before that it was just at the local travel claim office by paper
4. What are your expectations about Veterans being reimbursed for traveling for VA medical care?
  - It should be a bit simpler and more direct
  - How would you imagine that?
    - Maybe bring back the kiosk check-in at the clinic. Each clinic check-in desk. 
    - You know, I am guessing the rule is that you have to show up. Showing up already, if you check-in why. I guess another request when you come back home after. 
  - Kiosk experience?
    - My local VA took it (kiosk) away. They eliminated it. I do remember the kiosk you check in and it would ask you, “do you want to claim travel” I think those were much simpler times. 


---

### Questions from: Intro page - Answered for Version B, which was their first version- documented in second section

1. Tell me what you are looking at.
2. Do you think you can be reimbursed? What tells you that?
3. What do you think that you need to know in order to get reimbursed? What tells you that?
4. What items or information do you think that you will need to complete this process? What tells you that?
5. Looking at this page, what do you expect to happen next? What tells you that?

---

### Questions from: “Trip Info” page

1. Tell me what you are looking at.
  - I think it is one less step. The previous one had 5 steps, this is only 4
2. What do you think you can do here? What tells you that?
  - Pretty similar but just shortened, travel info I can pick here. 
3. What do you think you need to do here? Why?
  - Say that this is correct info (address)
  - Select personal vehicle because I drove and then I guess based on the starting address it calculated mileage for me here
4. What happens next?
  - Receipts for expenses other than mileage

---

### Questions from: “Receipts” page

1. Tell me what you are looking at.
  - This one it lets me upload everything instead of a breakdown, a separated section So anything that is not mileage related I would have to upload the receipt here
3. What do you think you can do here? What tells you that?
4. What do you think you need to do here? Why?
  - Choose the files, upload each one, would be able to upload multiple fields or pictures. I would think I would have to enter the info because I don’t think it would be able to read the image
  - Clicks choose files:
    - The details of what I have uploaded. I have uploaded two files. Then I can type the vendor, Whatever it says on the receipt, notes. Would write the bridge name for tolls. The authority name on the receipt and how much I paid
    - Info you would need to put in?
      - It is populated by itself. I guess there is some sort of tool that may have read the receipt. I would still have to edit to verify if it is wrong
5. What happens next?
  - Just a summary review of what I have input 

---

### Questions from: “Review” page

1. Tell me what you are looking at.
  - The receipts, just a summary without the file and then the summary of the mileage expense, non mileage expense and the total
2. What do you think you can do here? What tells you that?
3. What do you think you need to do here? Why?
  - Just review, make sure it is correct and if so, I can submit
4. What do you think is next?
  - I guess the confirmation number and just how many days it may take

---

### Questions from: “Submission confirmed” page

1. Tell me what you are looking at.
  - Confirmation number and expected wait time and I guess these are numbers of ways to contact if it takes more than 5-7 business day 
2. What do you think happens next? What tells you so?
3. What do you think you can do from here?
  - Either start a new request. I don't believe I can edit what I have entered bc it has already been finalized. 

---

### Reflection Questions

1. On a scale of 1 to 10, how easy or difficult would you say this process was? What makes you say so? *Probe*
  - 3 - just less steps 
  - I am thinking the receipts stage, that was a big one where you could possibly read what I uploaded, scan it and extract that info into a field for me to edit 
2. What would you add, change, or remove about this process? *Probe*
  - Dark mode theme or some sort of accessibility features
  - Draft save
  - Possibly some sort of way to edit before somebody is reviewing on the VA side. BEcause if it hasn’t yet been reviewed then the ability to make changes should still be here
  - The messages - maybe the messages could have more info on the local travel claim office
3. What would you keep about this process? *Probe*
  - Status bar
- **If the user…**
  - *Has submitted for travel reimbursement before*: Reflecting on your experience, how does this process relate to your previous experience of submitting for travel reimbursement?
  - *Has not submitted for travel reimbursement before*: Reflecting on your experience, how does this process relate other experiences at the VA?
4. Anything else you want to share that we haven’t already covered?
  - No, that is it

---

## Second Version - B (was the first version for this participant)

### Questions from: Intro page

1. Tell me what you are looking at.
  - It seems to be just instructions, like a home page, a welcome page on how to submit your expenses. 
  - Nothing to click, well just when you get ready 
2. Do you think you can be reimbursed? What tells you that?
  - Not guaranteed yet, no
  - Well because I didn’t submit yet and I guess, I just from any other VA related request from the past, I just know it will  take time, it may or may not be accepted
3. What do you think that you need to know in order to get reimbursed? What tells you that?
  - Let’s see, maybe this clinic here (highlighted it). Some responsibility on their end to this specific clinic, need to mark   - I checked in and checked out completely. 
  - I have to drive. I have to have a direct deposit set up already or have to provide one or at least have a bank account set up. Be able to convert up I upload into these formats. 
And you know actually java eligible expenses. There are laws on what is eligible and of course it won’t say it here (as he swipes across opening yellow box)
5. What items or information do you think that you will need to complete this process? What tells you that?
  - Receipts, mileage to and from, I would think round trip. My start address. Knows from the yellow box highlighting what you need
6. Looking at this page, what do you expect to happen next? What tells you that?
  - Most likely step 1 that is outlined. Maybe just a page dedicated to step 1

### Questions from: “Expenses” page

1. Tell me what you are looking at.
  - It looks there is a status bar up top
  - And then here are the itemized items that are eligible for me to select if I had those expenses. It was what I expected, about step 1
2. Thinking of your last trip, what do you think you can be reimbursed for?
  - Mileage and parking (misses tolls)
  - What would you need to do then?
    - Just have my round trip and probably my parking slip from the garage that I parked in
    - Just check these two boxes
    - Prompts to click tolls
3. What now?
  - Provide details of each of the three
  - Probably on the next page
  - The start and end point for mileage
  - Some sort of upload for tolls and parking

---

### Questions from: “Trip Info” page

1. Tell me what you are looking at.
  - Yeah, it looks like this is about the mileage item part. Total miles. From top and bottom it tells me appointment details that I completed and then possibly it already uploaded my home address if I signed in before starting. Then I guess just in case I didn’t start from home it should prompt 
2. What do you think would happen if you clicked “Primary travel method”?
  - I forgot from the first page already, that these were one of the check boxes. Not sure why it is on here. Maybe personal or others…I am not sure about Taxi/Riseshare. I would have to go back to the first page. Forgot if that is an option. More than you need. If you are in the personal method then taxi/rideshare maybe doesn’t need to be there
  - Round trip and mile estimate the going and coming should be the same
3. What do you think is next?
  - Refers to the steps at the top
  - Probably receipt for parking and tolls

---

### Questions from: "Receipts" page

1. Tell me what you are looking at.
  - Yeah, I can upload it (receipt) here. I have to take a picture or scan and put it in the computer and upload it here. This is where I would put the parking slip or whatever payment receipt method. Same here for tolls, easy pass or cash receipt 
2. What do you think you can do here? What tells you that?
  - Drop each file in here. Maybe I have to convert it to meet the standard format
  - Seeing now?
    - The amount that it would need to match the picture. The date would also have to match what I uploaded. ANd possibly same as the previous info that I put in or the appointment date. Would have to match. Same goes for tolls?
  - Where do you think the info about the receipts comes from?
    - Probably from this address between starting and appointment address
  - Moderator confirming that the participant thinks that info about the amount, date, and notes come from the appointment info and trip info
    - Parking would be based on the end point from the first trip but the tolls I believe it uses both start and end point
3. What do you think you need to do here? Why?
4. What happens next?
  - Probably get a full view of 1, 2, and 3 here, summary preview before submitting

---

### Questions from: “Review” page

1. Tell me what you are looking at.
  - Everything I have entered
  - The file I have uploaded and the estimate of what I may or may not get (as reimbursement)
2. What do you think you can do here? What tells you that?
  - It could be clearer about the round-trip mileage. From past claims I have put in, it says round trip. That is what I am hoping for it to show
4. What do you think you need to do here? Why?
5. What do you think is next?
  - I guess if it doesn’t match or I see any edit I would have to go back. Tries to click along the top step bar and realizes can’t click it and says or would have to go back step by step
  - Legal spiel about waiting, how many days to be expected, possibly some sort of validation error if there is one. What I need to go back and fix. Possibly, the route that  may impact the mileage. There are different routes one can take to get to the same point
  - Maybe it knows about my other appointments not yet completed. Maybe it will ask me if I want to go to the next claim. Just those possibilities

---

### Questions from: “Submit” page

1. Tell me what you are looking at.
  - Confirmation number, that is good to write down or at least keep a record of
  - Expectations of if I can receive a decision, yes or no. THe usual customer service
2. Do you think that you have submitted your request?
3. What do you think happens next? What tells you so?
  - Either I start another one (claim)
  - I can close this page and just wait 
4. What do you think you can do from here?

---

### Reflection Questions

1. On a scale of 1 to 10, how easy or difficult would you say this process was? What makes you say so? *Probe*
  - 4 - At the beginning, the page isn’t 508 compliant as far as I have a reading disability. 
  - It could give me some sort of dark mode features that I can choose
  - The design is a little childish. It looks like a scam page. I don't think people will want to give their address. 
  - Process specifically:
    - Missing my banking info that I thought I would need to put in for deposit
2. What would you change about this process? *Probe*
  - Would like to see a save as draft option. SOe of this stuff I can’t do at the time. Like banking info or receipt. Maybe I left it (receipt) in the car
3 What would you keep about this process? *Probe*
  - I like the status bar I guess. If you guys could roll this out. For someone new who has never seen it you know where you are if you can’t finish it in one sitting
- **If the user…**
  - *Has submitted for travel reimbursement before*: Reflecting on your experience, how does this process relate to your previous experience of submitting for travel reimbursement?
    - I don’t have to login. I think that took maybe a third of my time with the current process
  - *Has not submitted for travel reimbursement before*: Reflecting on your experience, how does this process relate other experiences at the VA?
4. Anything else you want to share that we haven’t already covered?
  - No

---

## Comparison Questions

1. Which of these processes did you find easier? What makes you say so?
  - Version A - his second version
  - Less steps and I can I guess upload and drag and drop in one transaction
2. Of everything that you looked at today, what would you say was the most confusing to you and why?
  - Each step was pretty simple. Not that much confusion
3. What about these processes would you keep?
  - The confirmation feature that can be kept. The status bar can be kept. 
4. Is there anything else you would like to share that we have not covered?
  - I think it is missing the time of travel, nit matter the means. Time taken to travel, I guess it is not being considered here
  - Sometimes there are multiple appointments per day, maybe that wasn’t the scenario example. If I have multiple appointments completed that day, hopefully that can also be listed under trip info

