
# Participant 1_08.26.25_1030EST

## Intro

### Past experiences

**1. How do you typically get to your VA medical appointments?**  
Drives and drives other Veterans to their appointments.  
Used to drive Veterans via Lyft or Uber anymore, just personally, but is compensated for the time and travel.

**2. Have you ever submitted to be reimbursed for traveling for your VA medical appointment?**  
Has never submitted a claim, but knows that he possibly could be.  
“I don’t know that I would be - I’ve never seen the forms. I’ve never read past that part.”  
Two other Veterans that he drives to appointments never mentioned being reimbursed; no idea how they would get to their appointments otherwise.

**3. If you have submitted to be reimbursed for traveling before, did you have to upload evidence like receipts? Please describe your experience.**  
Never filed.

**4. What are your expectations about Veterans being reimbursed for traveling for VA medical care?**  
“It sounds like a great idea, especially here - if I were travel to my house and go to Durham an hour away. Two hours of my day to travel, along with the frustrations to go there - I’m searching for the words to describe their parking.”  
Was charged for parking once, $10 in the garage. Have used the parking deck since then and no payment since then. Not sure what changed.

---

## Version: A

### Questions from: Intro page

**1. Tell me what you are looking at.**  
“I read through the first screen, which gives me prompts to tell me everything that I need”  
“At least there’s a start - I better get all this stuff together.”  
Thinks you would get exact mileage off your car.  
Notices mileage rate and information about the appointment.  
“The helpful tips part is nice.”  
“What I like so far is that this is the format people use. You don’t have 10 tons of information for someone to read all at once.”  
Likes that it mentions this is about the appointment, feels like that has been pre-done for him  
“I need the file formats” but expect that to be pretty regular.  
Processing time is interesting. Thinks that people who struggle with technology would call the number. 5-7 business days, but if you want to want to make an appointment with VA, your appointment would be months in advance.

**2. Do you think you can be reimbursed? What tells you that?**  
What do you think that you need to know in order to get reimbursed? What tells you that?  
If you’re “rookie” on a computer, you might not know how to make digital copies. “I could easily scan any documents you want and not have a problem attaching them.”  
Address - expects it to be home address. Thinks people might move to VA hospital for a short length of time, for certain treatments, and might need a different starting address.

**3. What items or information do you think that you will need to complete this process? What tells you that?**  
“You need to deal with all your expenses and taking care of everything that needs to be done to get reimbursed.”  
“I like how you put these in 5 different steps because 1, for example, has just the expenses you need to confirm and the other is the details of the trip.”  
“There’s nothing in there about how you get paid.”

**4. Looking at this page, what do you expect to happen next? What tells you that?**  
“You’ve got to gather up your receipts, so I expect there’s a list of everything I need to get ready to process.”

---

### Questions from: “Trip” page

**1. Tell me what you are looking at.**  
Notices order at top, notices trip information. There’s the address, notices drop down to pick the address.  
“If it’s not my address, I expect it would be a new drop down to enter. I’d be typing with one finger on my phone. I’m going to put it’s correct.”  
Adds personal vehicle.

**2. What do you think you can do here? What tells you that?**  
“You would have choices to take different types of transportation, rideshare or taxi.”  
No walking or biking.  
Thinks that if need be, there would be more opportunity to put in details.

**3. What do you think you need to do here? Why?**  
Thinks adding the start of the trip, address starting point, is natural  
“I already can see the next page has stuff to do with my receipts.”

---

### Questions from: “Receipts” page

**1. Tell me what you are looking at.**  
“Hopefully you have those receipts handy. And you’ve already scanned them and you know how to find those files.”  
Hopes that people have already done the work to scan all the files, because there would be an interruption in the process.  
“Looks simple enough” Notices reminder about formats - “These look more than adequate.”

**2. What do you think you can do here? What tells you that?**  
“I am ready to add my receipts. I would choose files.”

**3. What do you think you need to do here? Why?**  
“First receipt I see is tolls and I suspect that the toll is for me. I don’t know what I’d pay until I’d go to another area. I’d have to go to the toll authority and find out how much the toll is. It won’t appear magically on my phone. The receipt would be something I would have to handwrite. I don’t know how to write something that would be authentic enough.”  
Is confused about how he’d know the amount of the toll or get information from the toll website in order to upload for reimbursement.

**4. What do you think is next?**  
“You are reviewing this stuff.”  
“I’m looking at the receipts that I’ve added to this program that is going to pay me back.”

---

### Questions from: “Review” page

**1. Tell me what you are looking at.**  
“Everything that is dealing with the appointment that took place. The tolls. You can click back, that’s nice.”  
“That’s straightforward.”

**2. What do you think happens next? What tells you so?**  
Knows that he has not yet submitted. “Everything is just a summary of things.”  
“Are these all your expenses? What else needs to be here?”  
“I guess you don’t get paid for gas. I’ve never filled out a form. I guess I better get a receipt from the convenience store or wherever I’ve filled up, to get a receipt for gas.”  
“The bottom business tells me what the total is. That’s the total of the receipts that I have.”

**3. What does mileage mean?**  
“That’s what you’re paying me for the trip, but I don’t know if that’s one way. That seems kind of pricey for one way. I would guess that would be round trip.”

**4. What do you think happens next?**  
“My best guess is I’m submitting this for reimbursement next.”

---

### Questions from: “Submit” page

**1. Tell me what you are looking at.**  
“Oh it’s already sent. If something was wrong with my receipts, would I submit another request for the same thing? Is it a continuation? Am I allowed to do that?”  
“If someone forgets to do milage-even though it’s very clear, you’re dealing with human element, someone thinks, I forgot to do my mileage. I guess they have to submit another request.”

---

## Reflection Questions

**1. On a scale of 1 to 10, how easy or difficult would you say this process was? What makes you say so?**  
It’s a 2.
“One of my patients (who he drives), as a GI, has a traumatic brain injury, simple things upset him. He’ll go into road rage in the backseat of my car. I can imagine something like this frustrating him, so that’s where the phone number comes into play.”  
Might be problematic for a few people

**2. What would you add, change, or remove about this process?**  
“I can’t think of that, I can’t think of anything you’ve shown me that is confusing. This is very straightforward, it’s very nice”

**3. What would you keep about this process?**  
Likes the numbered list of things to do/order of things that happen  
Thinks that would be helpful for friend with TBI

**4. If the user…  
Has submitted for travel reimbursement before: Reflecting on your experience, how does this process relate to your previous experience of submitting for travel reimbursement?  
Has not submitted for travel reimbursement before: Reflecting on your experience, how does this process relate other experiences at the VA?**  
Thinks it’s a clearer process than some of the others at the VA

**Anything else you want to share that we haven’t already covered?**

---

## Version: B

### Questions from: “Expenses” page

**1. Tell me what you are looking at.**  
“I see all the categories. I can’t think of anything you left you.”  
“Other travel expenses. If I had to walk, and it was winter, I would want to make sure I had a parka and heavy boots.”  
“I would need to scan and gather all this stuff and deal with what comes next. I would make sure that I had all of this information, ready to move on. For me, I wouldn’t go to the next without first making sure I had all this stuff available.”

**2. Thinking of your last trip, what do you think you can be reimbursed for?**  
“I’d be hoping I remembered to get receipts for most of this stuff.”  
“I’m liking the colors” (after selecting) “Oh this is going to take me to a page that is going to let me itemize all my receipts.”  
“I would select the first two items.”  
“For me that was a little counterintuitive. I thought when I punched on gas mileage a drop down window would appear and I would throw in a copy of the receipt there. Or type in how much gas mileage I needed to be reimbursed for, but I can see that is not going to happen.”  
“When I get into the next page, that’s when I’m going to put in the receipts and the the other information I need.”

---

### Questions from: “Trip Info” page

**1. Tell me what you are looking at.**  
“Yeah, this is the travel information and the starting address.”  
“You need to first confirm what address you left from and how you got there.”

**2. What do you think is next?**  
“I would think that’s where I’m going to dump receipts.”

---

### Questions from: "Receipts" page

**1. Tell me what you are looking at.**  
“Because I chose parking fees and tolls before, these are where I would put the receipts. I would upload the receipts into these categories, whether I scanned them or took photos of them. Before it was already pre-written, it was preloaded somehow” (Note: That’s just because of the prototype design)  
“I need to hunt them down.”

**2. What do you think you can do here? What tells you that?**  
“I would have no problems doing that…” (in terms of uploading receipts), but is concerned he wouldn’t be able to find toll receipts.

**3. What do you think you will see when you hit next?**  
“I assume this is the end and this is all I’m going to get paid for.”

---

### Questions from: “Review” page

**1. Tell me what you are looking at.**  
“I’m going to get paid $51.99, which is more than before” (prototype totals are different)

**2. What do you think you can do here? What tells you that?**  
“I think I can submit and then I will see that page next. Then a person will look at that and say this is legit. Or some AI.”

---

### Questions from: “Submit” page

**1. Tell me what you are looking at.**  
“Oh, yeah, everything is cool”

---

## Reflection Questions

**1. On a scale of 1 to 10, how easy or difficult would you say this process was? What makes you say so?**  
“Oh this is perfect, 10”

**2. What would you change about this process?**  
“I wouldn’t change anything…I don’t recall needing to select those windows.”  
Goes back to expense page - “You’re telling me to choose all expense categories. You’re not telling me how to do it.”

**3. What would you keep about this process? Probe**

**If the user…  
Has submitted for travel reimbursement before: Reflecting on your experience, how does this process relate to your previous experience of submitting for travel reimbursement?  
Has not submitted for travel reimbursement before: Reflecting on your experience, how does this process relate other experiences at the VA?**

**4. Anything else you want to share that we haven’t already covered?**

---

## Comparison questions

**1. Which of these processes did you find easier? What makes you say so?**  
“I think they were both comparable to one another. It appears to me that there is more attention to detail in the second presentation than the first. I didn’t see meals or lodging in the first presentation that I remember.”  
Liked that the categories made it very clear what could be submitted for reimbursement.

**2. Of everything that you looked at today, what would you say was the most confusing to you and why?**  
“I wasn’t confused by any of this. I’m not inter savvy or forms filling out person on the web. I’ve done my share of wanting to throw my monitor out the window. I do my best to move on when I am asked to complete a particular task on the web.”  
Thinks biggest issue would be people forgetting to get receipts.

**3. What about these processes would you keep?**  
Is there anything else you would like to share that we have not covered?
