# VA Travel Reimbursement Interview Questions (Order AB) - Note that this user was on their cell phone

## First Version - A

### Past Experiences

1. How do you typically get to your VA medical appointments?
  - In my own vehicle. POV as we would say. Round trip. 
2. Have you ever submitted to be reimbursed for traveling for your VA medical appointment?
3. If you have submitted to be reimbursed for traveling before, did you have to upload evidence like receipts? Please describe your experience.
  - Yes, bridge tolls and the latest thing is doing some CC based care. Some things you have to do with that type of travel game to get it approved
  - More detail: First, I complained a lot about BTSSS when it first came on. Very pleased to participate about this. I had lots of complaints. A lot of great improvements up to this point. Done a good job, getting it to work well. Quite easy when it's a regular appointment and all I'm claiming is miledge, very easy, asks a few questions and done. How much easier could it be
  - When going to VA hospital tolls and has to do receipts
  - Lately for CC chiropractor care, 80miles away going three days per week for the last month
    - First few claims he put in got denied since I didn’t submit proof I had been to the appointment since not in the VA system. Easy enough to do ask the doctor to sign something. I have been taking a photograph, have a samsung, can write on the tech. Statement will show multiple days. Will circle the date and save it. Basically the same receipt but with 12 copies. Then I attach it like when I do the mileage part, claiming anything else, yes, then upload the receipt
    - Works well now that I got the hang of it
    - Initially denied claims and just throw up your hands
  - Same place as mileage only start?
    - I think it gives me that option, trying to remember. WHen I go my local , its only mileage , Bay ines is tolls, it may give me the option to file claim then but I obviously don’t have my receipt for the toll then and I am on my way to the appointment so I just file the claim later, or the following week. Go into BTSSS find appointment and submit from there
  - Toll:
    - So, having lived up there in Northern VA, use it in Florida, a VA easy pass. So it is very easy, just go into my app or website and go to transactions and print receipt for that particular toll. Maybe screen shot it, depends on which computer working on. Then attach it as an attachment 
4. What are your expectations about Veterans being reimbursed for traveling for VA medical care?
  - I think it is fantastic. You know I feel kind of funny claiming the bridge, it is a $1.16 but they are willing to do it so I will claim it, especially if I have multiple visits per month
  - Didn't have receipts and fit save to finish later, but it took the claim and processed for mileage only (without receipt), I am not gonna go back in to do an appeal over a $1.16 toll times two. But same with CC program. FIrst two that were denied they said I could submit an appeal with VA form, but it's like no I am not doing that. 
  - Those appointments don’t show, I have to create the appointment as a missing appointment. So I just recreated the appointment as if I never created it and then wrote a note explaining the situation. Certainly wasn’t going to go through the VA appeal process,s seemed too complicated, just file a new claim, let them figure it out
  - Never appealed, I feel blessed to get the mileage, not worth it for a toll. 41.5 cents per mile, that is a nice penny


---

### Questions from: Intro page

1. Tell me what you are looking at.
  - Well, it is a good reminder box first, saying what you need and please gather, 4 sub bullets with the things I should have on hand, so thats a good reminder, especially when you need digital copies of receipts. 
  - Travel method and mileage info - typically with BTSSS it will compute the mileage between where I went and where I started, we will see on here whether I have to have the mileage
  - Next box is here is what we will do together, goes through the steps
  - Seems pretty cut and dry
  - Notes the helpful hints
  - Likes the mileage rate of .67
  - And then get started at the bottom
  - One should read through all these little boxes and then when you get to the get started, Bam. 
2. Do you think you can be reimbursed? What tells you that?
  - I know I will be reimbursed, I certainly should be. Seems to fall within the parameters, VA doc. As long as I meet the criteria to be reimbursed in the first place. I am 70% the rule is as long as you are 30%. VA appointment connected to disabilities. Now eligible for 100% VA care. But yes, certainly would make assumption reimbursable
3. What do you think that you need to know in order to get reimbursed? What tells you that?
4. What items or information do you think that you will need to complete this process? What tells you that?
  - Well I had tolls, since I use the easy pass very easy for me to pull up. Cash toll just make sure ask for a receipt, just as easy
  - Obviously the mileage
  - Tolls, mileage, oh and parking. Again, usually the ones where you don’t talk to anyone, even the credit card can get a receipt from that, or if it is a human then just ask for a receipt 
5. Looking at this page, what do you expect to happen next? What tells you that?
  - I guess, I would think It will ask me questions and I will need to fill it out, how this your appointment, confirm it yes.no, where did you travel from, how did you travel, I am thinking it would walk me through kind of like BTSSS walks you through it, a remarks box to describe the appointment

---

### Questions from: “Trip Info” page

1. Tell me what you are looking at.
  - Gives me the 4 boxes I am going to see
  - On this screen I can see the trip info box
  - Confirming the appointment, starting address, address on file, I assume since it shows address on file that is the question, not click boxes. Clicks into address box and sees the drop down options. Clicks no just because
  - Does the same for round trip
  - Total mileage, that is good that it is automatically calculated, based on whatever guides they used. Used to be a hard copy for official distances
  - Asks about clicking on the receipts box (step 2)
  - Primary travel method meaning:
    - How I went - just like what is showing in the dropdown. Aks about personal vehicle, could it be a neighbor?
2. What do you think you can do here? What tells you that?
3. What do you think you need to do here? Why?
  - Looks like it is going to ask me for receipts and I would assume kind of like BTSSS, what are you claiming. Don’t know if it will ask about mileage because in this set of screens but suppose will ask about receipts for tolls and parking

---

### Questions from: “Receipts” page

1. Tell me what you are looking at.
  - So, asking me to upload my receipts. Notes the accepted formats
  - Only thing here, while I may have all my paper in front of me. At this point if I wasn’t thinking clearly at very beginning,I would realize oh no, I have my toll receipt but I haven’t photographed it or scanned it or whatever. I don’t know if there is a note - I know it said gather, but it didn’t say scan or photograph or at this point need to start over or save or pick it up later
  - Receipts:
    - I see here it says a back screen, go back and take a quick photo of my toll receipt and then it is there as a screenshot and come back to this point
    - In the other software a save button, used in the past. And then go back to it, sitting in the queue or dashboard. Here, not sure how that would be done. All I see is back or next
2. What do you think you can do here? What tells you that?
  - Receipt details:
    - At first I didn't think anything happened, but at the bottom of my screen
Scrolls through receipts
    - At this point, I guess I had already chosen them to be uploaded since I didn’t have to pick them. I would assume once I pick choose file allow me to go wherever I think I saved that file, photos, pdf documents, skipped that part for the prototype
    - Gives me the option to remove it if I uploaded the wrong thing. Nice and easy that button is right there to take it off
    - Notes the add another receipt option 
    - Filed info where from?:
      - Well, that is a good question, I didn’t think about that
      - I would assume that I would have to put that in, because I can’t think of any system that if I upload a photo that scans the photo and fills the blocks. I would assume I would have to put the data in there. Should be a drop down box under description, I guess I could just type the word in description, may be holding hands too much if I had a dropdown box ther…maybe not. Could select toll, parking, have to others be another option because someone may have a weird receipt
3. What do you think you need to do here? Why?
  - Scrolls up and notes steps above and says review mode, number 3

---

### Questions from: “Review” page

1. Tell me what you are looking at.
  - Takes me to the bottom of the screen so need to scroll to top
  - Goes through trip info, summary, receipts, estimated reimbursement 
  - Now, what I don’t see so far is cause I have used it on my other submission for travel claims is any type of remarks box, maybe I need tot ell them I am doing something weird. I am starting from this address because…I went to a different place and not back home. Sometimes a remarks box is good, especially for CC, whether necessary or not. Doing CC as approved by XX VA hospital XX Dr. 
  - I was able to put that into the remarks to clarify, I am not just going to someone, I am approved for that. I think travel, claim people look for that approval but if I can help them approve my claim it is is my favor to do so. If I name my dr and clinic they know what to look for 
2. What do you think you can do here? What tells you that?
3. What do you think you need to do here? Why?
4. What do you think is next?
  - After I click submit I suppose I will get a screen saying successfully submitted, let you know the final decision. May get less if 4th trip that month. Didn't see any statements talking about deductibles. A reminder that your first 3, a deductible must be meant, $6 per visit or $18/month. Just to remind the Veteran total estimate, don’t get excited

---

### Questions from: “Submission confirmed” page

1. Tell me what you are looking at.
  - Ah, good, confirmation number
  - Starts at the top and goes down and accidentally refreshes the page
  - The only thing is unless I take a screen shot, I don’t know if I would get an email or text message with that confirmation number. Otherwise I would take my screen shot to have it. 
  - Reiterate the thing about the deductible here. A good spot to remind the traveler may not get everything expected
3. What do you think happens next? What tells you so?
4. What do you think you can do from here?

---

### Reflection Questions

1. On a scale of 1 to 10, how easy or difficult would you say this process was? What makes you say so? *Probe*
  - I would say it was a 1. It seemed extremely self explanatory, easy enough to go for screen to screen. With BTSSS seems to all be the same screen, just scrolling
  - I assume that there would be some kind of BTSSS type of dashboard that I can go into later and see all my travel claims and check on status? Assuming so…or there should be. Very useful in BTSSS, especially when going different places, 12 CC, 3 to his main VA, and other. Probably had 15-20 claims in one month, so good to have that dashboard…did I actually submit everything I needed to submit, status (denied or paid), but if you have 20 claims it doesn;t tell me which claim is which in my direct deposit
  - Not seeing  money, then what?
    - Basically, just what I was saying…I would go to dashboard, login through access VA into BTSSS, and go through the prompts and the dashboard and then at the top are my claims and below that appointments…cofnusing, on the same screen but go to different pages, but it works once you realize what is happening and what looking for. Can go through each claim
2. What would you add, change, or remove about this process? *Probe*
  - Adding in reminder about deductible and the dashboard - anything else?
  - No, I think it is all necessary. Can’t think of anything I wouldn't want or need. Everything that showed is needed
  - Again, a reminder to have receipts ready, have them digitized one way or another
3. What would you keep about this process? *Probe*
- **If the user…**
  - *Has submitted for travel reimbursement before*: Reflecting on your experience, how does this process relate to your previous experience of submitting for travel reimbursement?
    - I thought this was super easy to  be honest. Going from screen to screen. The 4 steps in the beginning, 4 screens you will see and we went through each one, a back button is good if I forgot something. BTSSS, took a lot of user self training through some frustrations, got better over time. Relatively friendly bc I do a lot of claims, relatively easy to use. If I don’t have claims for 4 months, I have to relearn it. The one here, I wouldn’t need to relearn anything. Once I get logged in, boom, going to walk me through it 
  - *Has not submitted for travel reimbursement before*: Reflecting on your experience, how does this process relate other experiences at the VA?
4. Anything else you want to share that we haven’t already covered?

---

## Second Version - Version B

  - I see under helpful tips it does talk about file format…have you have to check that box so you focus on the line, reminds you to do something with the papers 

### Questions from: “Expenses” page

1. Tell me what you are looking at.
  - Tells me, looks like gonna be 5 steps 
Okay under the - this is helpful, goes back to other version, dropdown box, but this is even better. Anytime there is a graphic that is good and not just typed letters. I like this
2. Thinking of your last trip, what do you think you can be reimbursed for?
3. What would you do?
  - I would assume. Telling me if I got mileage, I know I have parking fees, tolls and we didn’t do any of the others. Good that there is the other type
  - My first thought was do I click mileage and then go Next, but read the instructions, it says to pick ALL, so now I have chosen all three. Tells me which I chose at the bottom there and the ones I need to be prepared
4. What is next?
  - I would assume walk me through each one of these, maybe one right after the other or once I do  mileage then next and then parking then next and then tolls or it could jump without hitting next button

---

### Questions from: “Trip Info” page

1. Tell me what you are looking at.
  - Again, need to scroll to the top
  - Step 2, trip info. Gave me information of where I went and started from. Confirms that
  - Notes personal vehicle, round trip, 47 miles
  - Okay, so will walk me though each of the categories
2. What do you think would happen if you clicked “Primary travel method”?
3. What do you think is next?
  - Should take me to the next one (tolls?)

---

### Questions from: "Receipts" page

1. Tell me what you are looking at.
  - Okay, so I am in receipts mode. And I see it does in this case here, all the different receipts modes they are showing
  - Receipt details:
    - Prefilled but again assuming I would need to do that. 
    - Notes the calendar drop down box
    - Good spot on the note to say a bridge toll rather than a regular one
2. What do you think you can do here? What tells you that?
3. What do you think you need to do here? Why?
  - According to the steps looks like I will be going into review mode

---

### Questions from: “Review” page

1. Tell me what you are looking at.
  - In review mode. I see trip summary which has the mileage, parking fee, bridge toll, and of course pre-calculated based on mileage reimbursement rate plus the other expenses, estimated total…already talked about deductible 
2. What do you think you can do here? What tells you that?
3. What do you think you need to do here? Why?
4. What do you think is next?
  - Hit submit assuming I didn’t forget receipts or anything, should give me a summary and claim number like the other one

---

### Questions from: “Submit” page

1. Tell me what you are looking at.
  - Same information as first version
  - Not sure, saw before, check your VA account for status updates..the need help…if I need help with this particular clam I would think I need to call my specific travel center. If I get a hold of big VA they will shrug their shoulders ans ay get a hold of local office. I know that info is available through VA website, how I tracked down about CC receipts. Had to call VA travel office at home VA center. Found number online, couldn't get through, called big VA number and got hold of someone who used to work with guy who processed travel claims
  - Make sure it is a good contact number otherwise gonna get complaints about it
2. Do you think that you have submitted your request?
3. What do you think happens next? What tells you so?
4. What do you think you can do from here?

---

### Reflection Questions

1. On a scale of 1 to 10, how easy or difficult would you say this process was? What makes you say so? *Probe*
  - 1 - I would go back and change my other one to 2 (version A)This one was easier, liked the graphics
2. What would you change about this process? *Probe*
3 What would you keep about this process? *Probe*
- **If the user…**
  - *Has submitted for travel reimbursement before*: Reflecting on your experience, how does this process relate to your previous experience of submitting for travel reimbursement?
  - *Has not submitted for travel reimbursement before*: Reflecting on your experience, how does this process relate other experiences at the VA?
4. Anything else you want to share that we haven’t already covered?

---

## Comparison Questions

1. Which of these processes did you find easier? What makes you say so?
  - This one was easier, liked the graphics - listed all the types of reimbursements. Anything that makes it easier. I like to think of myself as computer savvy. And maybe not everyone is as savvy, make it the simplest to use where people don’t need to figure things out. In that regard I like the second one a lot better (Version B)
2. Of everything that you looked at today, what would you say was the most confusing to you and why?
3. What about these processes would you keep?
4. Is there anything else you would like to share that we have not covered?
  - I don’t think so. Disclaimer about deductibles, otherwise looks cute and dry. Curious to see how summary/dashboard would look. Has comments about dashboard. I would separate out claims from appointments. In BTSSS they show on the same screen. Looking at clams dash or appointments dash - nice to separate the two 
