# VA Travel Reimbursement Interview Questions

## First Version (A)

### Past Experiences

1. How do you typically get to your VA medical appointments?
- I drive myself in my own vehicle.

3. Have you ever submitted to be reimbursed for traveling for your VA medical appointment?
- No. I didn’t think I lived far enough away and I wasn’t familiar with the process. 

4. What are your expectations about Veterans being reimbursed for traveling for VA medical care?
- It would be nice. I do have to go through a toll and get gas there and back.

---

### Questions from: Intro page

1. Tell me what you are looking at.
- It's telling me what I’ll need before I start. Digital copies, dates, amounts, starting amounts. That box is yellow. Travel method and mileage. 
- And what we’ll do together. Confirm trip details, upload receipts, submit and get paid.
- Then helpful tips. Accepted file formats, deposit, need help, and your past appointment. 

2. Do you think you can be reimbursed? What tells you that?
- Yes, due to the fact that they allowed me to open up the application. 

3. What do you think that you need to know in order to get reimbursed? What tells you that?
- Proof that I took the trip. Receipts and mileage.
- I guess they’ll just trust what I enter for mileage, but that's easy with Google maps to figure out or for them to verify. 

4. What items or information do you think that you will need to complete this process? What tells you that?
- Giving them a receipt if I paid a toll. Everything else is here. 

5. Looking at this page, what do you expect to happen next? What tells you that?
- That it’s being processed or in review. If they accepted it or not. And I would want to know that what I filled out went through. (Participant thinks they’ll look at a review or confirmation page next.)

---

### Questions from: “Trip Info” page

1. Tell me what you are looking at.
- It says trip info, appt details, who it’s with, my doctor, the date, my starting address (probably my home), then I have to confirm it. Travel info, personal vehicle, if it was roundtrip, and my total miles. 

2. What do you think you can do here? What tells you that?
- Will probably ask me if I encountered tolls. I don't see it on this page. [Moderator prompts user to click some of the dropdowns.]

3. What do you think you need to do here? Why?

---

### Questions from: “Receipts” page

1. Tell me what you are looking at.
- Now they’re looking for receipts. They want me to upload receipts using different formats. 

2. Does that look familar ot you? Have you done it before?
- Yeah sometimes you take a pic with your phone, make a pic of the receipt, drag and drop it.

3. Would you typically drag and drop or look on your computer?
- I’m 50/50.

4. What do you think you can do here? What tells you that?
- That’s about it; submit the receipts.

5. What do you think you need to do here? Why?
- It’s showing me receipts I have uploaded, and I can add more receipts. Or I can remove them if they’re not correct. 

6. Looking at info fields, did it prepopulate that info or did you add it?
- It is prepopulated, but I can change or correct it. 

7. What will happen after?
- Probably verifying that the information is correct. Although if it popped up already populated… I’m actually not sure what I would expect next. 


---

### Questions from: “Review” page

1. Tell me what you are looking at.
- It looks like we’ll review everything. It separates the receipts I’ve submitted with dates and amounts, and shows estimated reimbursement. 

2. What do you think you need to do here? Why?
- The only thing is if I saw something that’s not correct. Oh, I have a back button to correct it.
- (Notetaker notes: How are we letting users edit mistakes? With the Back button or inline edit button like on form Review pages?) 
- And I’ve had some where you go back and it’s all blank. Hopefully it’s still there and I don’t have to do it all over again. 

4. What do you think is next?
- Verify that they received my information. I'll get a response later. Or it could be accepted immediately, or perhaps it has to be reviewed. 

---

### Questions from: “Submission confirmed” page

1. Tell me what you are looking at.
- That's what I'd expect, with a confirmation number. And if I want to submit another request, I have a button I can do that. 

2. What do you think happens next? What tells you so?
- It goes to the VA for review. 

---

### Reflection Questions

1. On a scale of 1 to 10, how easy or difficult would you say this process was? What makes you say so? *Probe*
- 1, extremely easy. All the info was there, I didn’t see anything I had to guess at, or ask should I or shouldn’t I do that. I wasn't worried if I did the wrong thing I’d need to start over, or it’d be denied because I made a stupid mistake or something I shouldn't have. 

2. What would you add, change, or remove about this process? *Probe*
- No, there’s nothing. It’s a very clean process, very clean screen. Not overly cluttered with useless information. I wouldn’t change anything. 
- I like the color schemes and whatnot, very easy on the eyes. 

3. What would you keep about this process? *Probe*
- I don’t know, everything I need I think is there.

4. How does this compare to other things you've submitted to va?
- Probably easier.

5. Why?
- Because it's pretty straightforward. I didn't have any questions. I knew what I was doing.
- The only thing I'd wonder if I made a mistake in the amount. What if I put $80 instead of $8? Would it question me–is this really what you want? Or if I made a mistake on the date, instead of 25 if I put 52?

6. So before submitting, you'd like it to prompt you to look again?
- Yeah, or somewhere in the process. Instead of letting it all go through and then rejecting me for asking for $100 in tolls…

7. Anything else you want to share that we haven’t already covered?
- Nope, it covered everything. It’s all there. 

---

## Second Version (B)

### Questions from: Intro page

1. Tell me what you are looking at.
- Yup, looks straightforward. 
- The little icons on the left are neat.

---
### Questions from: “Expenses” page

1. Tell me what you are looking at.
- The expense categories (participant reads them aloud). So it breaks everything down in case you encounter more expenses to go there. 

2. What can you be reimbursed for?
- Everything, I guess. 
- I'm not familiar with this. Lodging? I've never had to drive far enough to stay overnight or get meals. So that to me is a little foreign. But parking, mileage, tools, I could understand. And public transit or rideshare if they didn't have a car. The lodging and meals to me is foreign for what I encounter to go to VA. 
- But I'm a snowbird and I travel across the country. I've only had to go to VA once in my travels and I went to a satellite site. I don't know if I had scenarios where I’ve been so far away as to need lodging or meals. If you're in the desert like in Death Valley, you're 400 miles away from anything. So it’s a nice option to have in that case for someone who needs it. 

3. What do you think is next?
- (Participant tried to advance but saw an error telling him to first select a category.) (Notetaker notes: we’ve seen a few cases of trying to proceed without selecting a category. Is that the prototype styling issue or something else?)
- I'll just select the 2 [expense categories]. 
- Well that was good, it didn't let me go forward without selecting at least one. 
- And it’s telling me what I selected below, that's good. 

---

### Questions from: "Trip info" page

1. Tell me what you are looking at.
- The appointment details, where I'm starting from, travel method, personal vehicle, roundtrip, total miles. Same as the other version I think.

---

### Questions from: “Review” page

1. What do you notice is different?
- I think the upload receipts for each expense category–I don't recall that in the other one. It still has drag and drop.
- You put receipts in for gas on this screen.
- [Prompted to choose files. Moderator says to imagine you put in that receipt]
- It has a toll amount, date, and notes on what toll it was for. 
- What if I drive through the toll at a high speed? I get it on my Easypass. Is that an acceptable receipt? I’m not sure how quickly it pops up  on my account. I've never had to download a receipt from there. 

2. Have you gone to the Easypass website before?
- I've logged into the account many times to make sure, but I’ve never downloaded anything. But I'm sure I could. 

3. What do you think you need to do here? Why?
- The only thing I don't see is if I have more than one receipt; toll one way and then back again. Or if there are 2 tolls on one journey.

4. What do you think is next?
- It'll want me to enter receipts for my other expenses, mileage, and whatever I clicked on prior. (Note that prototype had some odd behavior and didn't show screens/UI in the order we expected.)

---

### Questions from: “Review” page

1. Tell me what you are looking at.
- Yup, it’s telling me what I submitted. 

2. Anything you need to do?
- Nope, tolls in there. 
- Because I told it how far I went in the beginning, it tells me how much I get for mileage. I don't need to enter anything for that. It doesn't know if I take tolls or not, so I have to give it the receipt. 

3. What do you think happens next? What tells you so?
- Maybe I'll get a confirmation number.

---

### Questions from: “Submit” page

1. Tell me what you are looking at.
- Yup, I think it's the same as before. 
- The phone number is down there in case I need help, which is good. 

---

### Reflection Questions

1. On a scale of 1 to 10, how easy or difficult would you say this process was? What makes you say so? *Probe*
- I’d say 1, very easy. Everything is very clear, not confusing, and straightforward. 
- Because of the back button I assume I can go back and correct something if it doesn't look right. 

2. What would you change about this process? *Probe*
- The only question I have is I have 5-7 days for reimbursement. If I was on the road for something and not able to make that deadline, what would happen?

3. You think you only have 5-7 days to submit?
- Oh, I misread that. Oh, 5-7 days to receive it. My mistake. 

4. How will you get paid?
- I can't remember–did I fill it out beforehand? I don't think I did. 

5 What would you keep about this process? *Probe*
- They’re pretty equal. Side by side they look equally easy. 

4. Anything else you want to share that we haven’t already covered?
- Nope.

---

## Comparison Questions

1. Which of these processes did you find easier? What makes you say so?
- Probably version A is easier, because I didn’t have to select what kind of receipt I was submitting. (Notetaker note: but it shows the user other things they might not think of to submit). I guess to me that might be a little less busy. And I think that eliminated one step. I’m all about fewer steps. The KISS mentality. 

2. Of everything that you looked at today, what would you say was the most confusing to you and why?
- Maybe at the end when you asked how I thought I’d be reimbursed. I didn't think about that in the beginning. But I didn't see any other issues. 

3. What about these processes would you keep?
- I liked everything, really. It’s very easy on the eyes and I don’t have to make unnecessary clicks. 

4. Is there anything else you would like to share that we have not covered?
- Nope.
