# VA Travel Reimbursement Interview Questions (A first then B)

## First Version

### Past Experiences

1. How do you typically get to your VA medical appointments?
  - Personal vehicle, usually with my wife
  - Changes who is driving

3. Have you ever submitted to be reimbursed for traveling for your VA medical appointment?
  - Yes, has past experience submitting for reimbursement
  - For the first couple years, I didn't even know I could do it. Then I had an appointment at a satellite clinic 50 miles from home and they handed me a form and asked about claiming mileage and I hadn’t known I could. Asked if it was because it was this far. But learned I should be eligible to claim mileage on all appointments. 
  - Logged into VA.gov the following week, using ID.me. Looked around for it and found mileage reimbursement and tried a past appointment. Too much time had passed and I couldn't submit anymore. But then figured it out and have been doing it for 6 months
  - Changed system. They updated it, easier now. Highlighted thing to click on mileage only.
    - Take our calculation, dispute mileage - that part works good
    - Awkward part is if you want to do more than one appointment, you get lost sometimes. Have to start over to do more then one. Try to remember which one you just got done filing, When there are a lot of appointments on there it is really easy to get lost. 

5. If you have submitted to be reimbursed for traveling before, did you have to upload evidence like receipts? Please describe your experience.
  - No, only ever done mileage
7. What are your expectations about Veterans being reimbursed for traveling for VA medical care?
  - I think it seems pretty logical, straightforward that they are allowing Veterans to claim mileage. I assume because there are other fields that there are certain cases where people can claim lodging and meals etc just because of what he has seen as options and the prompting questions.
---

### Questions from: Intro page

1. Tell me what you are looking at.
  - So there is a PDF here that tells you what you need here, helping you get organized to do this, helpful tips, file format, rate for mileage, how long it is gonna take to get reimbursed and then has the appointment. Little button to click get started
2. What do you think you can do here? What tells you that?
  - Yes, Well it starts out with the title and says reimbursed
3. What do you think you need to do here? Why?
  - Proof of the toll, receipt and receipt from parking, and then home address
  - The what you will need before you start 
    - It says starting address
    - Highlighted in yellow - tells you what you will need
4. What items or information do you think that you will need to complete this process? What tells you that?
  - Answered above
5. Looking at this page, what do you expect to happen next? What tells you that?
  - Going to bring me to another page that is probably gonna ask to upload receipts, ask yes or no questions, confirm what address I started from. INteractive combination of opportunity to answer questions and upload receipts

---

### Questions from: “Trip Info” page

1. Tell me what you are looking at.
  - Now it gives me 4 steps. It is recapping the appointment date, time, location. 
  - Actually surprising to me that it doesn't have the address of the appointment. I would expect a street address because I go to 3 different addresses depending who I am seeing, so there would be 3 different calculations to reimburse for mileage. So   - I would want to see the address, not just city, VA medical center
  - I see it has the address on file for me. Assume you leave from home or the address on file
  - Has it auto filled in, not taking bus, round trip and telling me already calculated, which is what I am used to with the current system.
  - Current system asks if you want to argue/dispute it
2. What do you think you can do here? What tells you that?
  - Primary travel method..what else would you find?
      - Bus, train, taxi, or ride share maybe
      - Clicks on that - meets expectation
3. What do you think you need to do here? Why?
  - Next button: To number 2 on the form, chance to upload the receipts
  - Gets stopped because has to fill in all required fields, goes back and confirms the starting address. Makes sense for accurate calculation

---

### Questions from: “Receipts” page

1. Tell me what you are looking at.
  - Drag and drop window. Gives me a chance to choose files
  - Just drop in the two receipts. Toll and Parking
  - Next action?
      - Just click and choose files
  - In the past, how have you managed receipts?
      - Personally I have a folder on my desktop called receipts so I can find it easily
      - Picture or scan?
          - I guess I have done both. I usually scan it. There are times where I would take a picture and put it in a Google drive and try to pull it from Google drive
      - Clicks on choose files
      - What do you see?
        - Sees the description of the receipts
      - Tell us about the fields
        - Reinforcing/recapping who I paid, how much I paid, and why I paid
      - Where di tou think this information is coming from?
        - I think some optical character recognition from the receipt. The system pulls it in or you put it in yourself. Participant thinks the system recognizes it.
      - If you had to put it in, where would you get the info from?
        - Off the receipt 
3. What do you think you can do here? What tells you that?
  - Answered above
4. What do you think you need to do here? Why?
  - Answered above
5. What do you think is next?
  - Going to show me reimbursement
  - Recap everything

---

### Questions from: “Review” page

1. Tell me what you are looking at.
  - Summary of the trip, still no facility address
  - Mileage total 
  - Gas Mileage mean?
    - I think it's very confusing. I wouldn’t call it gas mileage. I would say either just mileage or reimbursable mileage. I wouldn’t use the word gas there because it is everything, wear and tear on your car. Mileage is for everything. Literately the phrase gas mileage is how efficient a car is. How much mileage do you get. I wouldn’t use it (the phrase gas mileage)
 Participant thinks the system recognizes it.
2. What do you think happens next? What tells you so? 
  - Well since this is a review, when I click submit it is gonna say great thanks, processing your request
3. What do you think you can do from here?
  - Answered above


---

### Questions from: “Submission confirmed” page

1. Tell me what you are looking at.
  - Confirmation number, timeline of 5-7 days. Button hat says “submit another request
2. What do you think happens next? What tells you so?
  - Probably a notification in the system of pending requests. 
3. What do you think you can do from here? If you wanted to follow-up on the claim status?
  - Go back into the VA.gov and take this confirmation number and expect to type it in somewhere or click on it somewhere?

---

### Reflection Questions

1. On a scale of 1 to 10, how easy or difficult would you say this process was? What makes you say so? *Probe*
  - Since I didn’t have to actually upload receipts, it was very easy.
  - Let's pretend you had to upload receipts. What then?
    - I guess what pops into my mind. If I was on your team helping to design and make it user friendly. I would offer the most hand holding in the uploading part. Try to get into the head of the Veteran who isn’t tech savvy and may just take a picture with their phone and not know what to do
    - I used to have an expense reimbursement app on my phone. Take a photo in the app and the app did all the work and you didn’t have to do anything extra
      - E.g., had lunch with Bob and who is here and then take a photo and you are done
      - This is straightforward and simplified but will run into hiccups with tools, parking, and meals. I think that choosing a file or drag and drop isn’t going to be enough. Going to have to tell them to create a folder somewhere. Have things T’d up and ready to go. Or have another way to get those receipts. Maybe there is a way to get them from this system. Or. a text message to your phone, click on it and it grabs the pictures that are needed from your phone
2. What would you add, change, or remove about this process? *Probe*
  - Answered above - help and guidance around the upload receipt process
  - The only other thing, which is criticism of the current system…make sure that it is bullet proof if I have 5 appointments I am trying to get reimbursed for. I want to easily do 1, 2, 3, 4, 5. VERY cumbersome right now to manage it currently.
  - If I go into va.gov and pull up past appointments, mix of video, and physical at different locations. I looked through that list. I remember I drove for these two and then I have to click in, which appointment is this and then start the process and when I am done I can’t click the back button and go back. I have to go all the way back. Then I am trying to remember, was it the 3rd one down or the 7th one down? I am clicking multiple times on the same appointment and realizing  already did that
  - Organize around if these are reimbursable appointments? Do you want to do 1 or 3 today?
3. What would you keep about this process? *Probe*
  - I actually kind of like the font. Looks like comics sans. Fun cartoonish buttons. It is much more friendly looking than a standard V website. Not sure if that is part of it but likes the look and feel of the PDF
- **If the user…**
  - *Has submitted for travel reimbursement before*: Reflecting on your experience, how does this process relate to your previous experience of submitting for travel reimbursement?
    - Cleaner, simpler, friendlier 
  - *Has not submitted for travel reimbursement before*: Reflecting on your experience, how does this process relate other experiences at the VA?
4. Anything else you want to share that we haven’t already covered?
  - One observation, on this last page, I need help contacting the VA, here is the phone number. That should be on every page, Maybe it was and I didn’t notice it. But should be available on every page 

---

## Second Version

### Intro page
 1. General observations
  - Well it is 5 steps instead of 4. The steps aren’t right up at the top. After the organizing thing. 
  - Would have the help number right up top and on the side not tucked at the bottom. Constantly have it easily available to people
2. What are you going to see next?
  - What type of expenses I want

### Questions from: “Expenses” page

1. Tell me what you are looking at.
  - I can go through and click each category. Going to identify the type of expense reimbursement I am looking for 
2. Thinking of your last trip, what do you think you can be reimbursed for?
  - Gas mileage , parking, tolls
3. What happens next?
  - There is gonna be an opportunity to confirm starting address and uploading receipts

---

### Questions from: “Trip Info” page

1. Tell me what you are looking at.
  - Yep, I see my provider, starting address, opportunity to confirm, personal vehicle, total miles, I agree
2. What do you think would happen if you clicked “Primary travel method”?
3. What do you think is next?
  - Uploading other receipts part

---

### Questions from: "Receipts" page

1. Tell me what you are looking at.
  - Now it is organized into the categories, parking, tolls, a little more, specifically identifying what receipt to put where
  - It is good. I think it will help people who are processing claims if receipts are in the right place
2. What do you think you can do here? What tells you that?
3. What do you think you need to do here? Why?
  - Choose files or drag and drip receipts into appropriate places
  - Giving me amount and date and notes of what I paid and who I paid
  - I guess it is kind of weird that the date is a field because we are a;ready talking about a specific appointment
  - What do you think the date is in reference to?
      - Before it was who I paid, the amount, and what I paid for. The other version didn’t have a date at all. The date should be the date of the appointment 
      - Both these receipts have a different date - prototype issue
      - That date is related to the date of the appointment - yes
4. What happens next?
  - Now get back to a review page of everything

---

### Questions from: “Review” page

1. Tell me what you are looking at.
  - Categories, receipts, total mileage, total estimated reimbursement
  - Other version comparison:
    - This is clearly labeled the parking, the tolls, very similar to the other one with the summary page. Still need to change gas mileage, I don’t like that?
2. What do you think you can do here? What tells you that?
3. What do you think you need to do here? Why?
4. What do you think is next?
  - Click on submit and get the confirmation it was submitted

---

### Questions from: “Submit” page

1. Tell me what you are looking at.
  - Confirmation 
3. Do you think that you have submitted your request?
4. What do you think happens next? What tells you so?
5. What do you think you can do from here?
  - Can click submit another or go into Va.gov to make sure it is processing, check on it

---

### Reflection Questions

1. On a scale of 1 to 10, how easy or difficult would you say this process was? What makes you say so? *Probe*
  - 9 - does a good job of highlighting where to lick and what to do next. About as simple as you could for what you are trying to accomplish
  - With a few tweaks, uploading receipts and making sure phone number readily available for someone who gets hung up, I think that its definitely cleaner than the current system
2. What would you change about this process? *Probe*
  - Reinforce my idea, if there is a way to make it super simple, text message capture of a receipt, hold receipt up to laptop camera. Somewhere to super simplify getting the receipt into the system. Part I would spend some energy on
3 What would you keep about this process? *Probe*
  - I do like the fact that you click the type of reimbursement. I think I do prefer B to A as far as the organizational aspect of it
- **If the user…**
  - *Has submitted for travel reimbursement before*: Reflecting on your experience, how does this process relate to your previous experience of submitting for travel reimbursement?
  - *Has not submitted for travel reimbursement before*: Reflecting on your experience, how does this process relate other experiences at the VA?
4. Anything else you want to share that we haven’t already covered?

---

## Comparison Questions

1. Which of these processes did you find easier? What makes you say so?
  - I think initially I preferred A as soon as I saw there were more steps to B
  - B is a little tighter organized, a bit better
2. Of everything that you looked at today, what would you say was the most confusing to you and why?
  - If I never saw A, I wouldn’t think B was confusing. It just looked like more steps, but the more steps ended up being positive 
3. What about these processes would you keep?
4. Is there anything else you would like to share that we have not covered?
  - If someone has vision impairment, are you assuming they already have something built into their computer
  - Didn’t see any (click here to enlarge this)
  - What made you think of that?
    - I guess because I have been on sites where it prompts you if you need assistance or clean up or turn on a glare filter or magnify it, it has options/tools to help you see you what you are trying to do better, built into the site itself. 


