# VA Travel Reimbursement Interview Questions

## First Version (A)

### Past Experiences

1. How do you typically get to your VA medical appointments?
- Mostly I drive. Occasionally I use medical Uber.

2. Have you ever submitted to be reimbursed for traveling for your VA medical appointment?
- Yes.

3. If you have submitted to be reimbursed for traveling before, did you have to upload evidence like receipts? Please describe your experience.
- The first few times I did community care, I wasn’t told that I had to upload things. So I had a lot that was denied in the beginning, until someone told me that’s what I needed to do to get them approved. 

4. Have you uploaded any other receipts, like meals or tolls?
- I've done tolls. 

5. What are your expectations about Veterans being reimbursed for traveling for VA medical care?
- Since we have to travel so far–for me, it’s an hour or more with traffice–to get to VA, we should get reimbursed for that. 

---

### Questions from: Intro page

1. Tell me what you are looking at.
- I like “what you’ll need before you start.” That’s helpful, especially for people doing it for the first time. Knowing what you need before you’re halfway through is very helpful. 

2. Do you think you can be reimbursed? What tells you that?
- Yes. The only thing that’s not on here that I was expecting to see is what if my appointment isn’t listed here… the “click to add appointment” button. I would say 95% of the time, community care appointments aren’t shown in the travel system. I have to manually enter them and add the confirmation that I’ve been there. So I’d wonder if I wouldn’t get reimbursed for community care visits. 

3. What do you think that you need to know in order to get reimbursed? What tells you that?
- Copies of all my receipts, dates and amounts will be on the receipts, the various addresses, scanning receipts or taking pics of receipts, and bank account info.
- I like that the contact number is there. There's a help button in the current system, but you have to send a message and it's 3-5 days before you get a response. There’s no phone number or way to talk to someone. I have to secure message the travel office if I have an issue. I have no idea who I would call. And I have a TVI so if I don't remember to do it right away, I wont do it at all. 

4. Looking at this page, what do you expect to happen next? What tells you that?
- This is the appointment I’m claiming for. I’d expect when I click “Get started” that it would confirm I left from my home, and if not, I could input where I left from.


---

### Questions from: “Trip Info” page

1. Tell me what you are looking at.
- I’d verify that this is where I actually went. I’m assuming this appointment ID is tracked by VA somehow. I’ve never seen that before, and don't know what it is. 
- My starting address - yes. If I click “no” there’s another box that pops up to enter where I’m leaving from. 
- Method of travel, personal vehicle, yeah. 
- Total miles–So yes, it was calculated based on my home address. 

2. What do you think you can do here? What tells you that?
- I’d confirm that this is where I started from. If not, a pop up would appear to enter my actual starting address, like my work address. Then it would take me to the next screen to add additional information. 
- What if the appointment details were wrong? There's no way to change them. Like if I went to the cardiologist but my doctor was out sick and I saw someone else?

3. What do you expect on the next page?
- It’ll ask if there are any additional expenses like tolls, meals, or bus fare. 

---

### Questions from: “Receipts” page

1. Tell me what you are looking at.
- This is where I add my receipts. PDF or JPG. Unless you’re a photographer, most of the patients at VA don't know what a PNG file is.
- The only issue I foresee is that when I take pictures, they tend to have really large file sizes and I get this error message when I try to upload something that is larger file size. Then I have to try to figure out how to convert it to make it smaller. 
- I have no idea what makes a file big. 

2. How do you upload receipts now? Pics or scan?
- Pictures from my phone. I email them to myself, get on the computer, download the image, go to VA travel benefits page, and fill out the form and upload the receipt that I saved on my computer. 

3. What do you think you can do here? What tells you that?
- This looks like 2 receipts were uploaded, one for toll and one for parking. What I don't know is if it autofilled this from the image, or if it was typed on my own. 

4. What would you expect?
- I would expect it to autofill what it could, if it’s legible.

5. Anything else you have to do on this page?
- Only if I have more receipts to upload. 

6. What's after this page?
- It should be a review or verify that you included all the info you need to include. 

---

### Questions from: “Review” page

1. Tell me what you are looking at. Is this what you expect to see?
- Yes. But I also expect to see that I’m telling the truth, not lying.

2. What do you think you can do here? What tells you that?
- I’d expect a submit button at the bottom. 

3. What do you think is next?
- I should see a confirmation that it submitted. 

---

### Questions from: “Submission confirmed” page

1. Tell me what you are looking at.
- I would take a picture of this because I lose paper. So that if I don’t get my reimbursement in the timeframe, I can call and reference this number to find out what’s going on. I do this once a week, so I submit multiple appointments when I log in.

2. What do you think happens next? What tells you so?
- I assume it's the same as now, which is some automatic code and so long as there are no red flags, it goes through. Online community care ones go to manual review, which takes 30-60 days to get a response. And I hate that they waste paper. I wish they could just send an email saying it was denied or it could show up on my travel account. 
- When I did all those community care when I first started, I had 47 and I kept submitting them and I didn't get letters until 60 days later. I got 30 letters in the mail one day and 30 the next day saying they were all declined. 

3. Do you ever check the status of claims?
- As soon as I put them in, it says approved or in process. Community care ones will say “in manual review” and I have to wait. If approved, I usually get payment in 3 days. If not… I haven't had that happen. I'd have to see if there's a claim number attached to it. I usually send the travel dept the date, time of appt and who I saw. 

---

### Reflection Questions

1. On a scale of 1 to 10, how easy or difficult would you say this process was? What makes you say so? *Probe*
- Fairly easy. It's fairly self-explanatory. I’d say 2.

2. What would you add, change, or remove about this process? *Probe*
- I’d add the option to edit the appointment. How would it work if you had multiple appointments? 

3. What would you keep about this process? *Probe*
- I love the phone number. Being able to get help while working on it is 100% better than the system now. 
- Right now, you have to go through 3 mileage, go through 3 mileage screens, select tolls, go through 3 toll screens, select parking, go through 3 parking screens.

---

## Second Version (B)

### Questions from: “Expenses” page

1. Tell me what you are looking at.
- This looks like what we use now. From using the system now: if I click mileage, it takes me off the screen to where I would input that yes, this is my appointment address, yes this is my home address, yes it was roundtrip. Then it would bring me back to thai screen to add additional info. That's how it works now. 

2. Thinking of your last trip, what do you think you can be reimbursed for?
- Yes, I can be reimbursed for all the things.

3. Anything you don’t see that you expect to see?
- No. 

4.What would you do next?
- I’d click mileage and see what happens. 
- Ok, I can [select] them all at once. So I’d also click parking and tolls. 

5. What told you you can do them all at once?
- The fact that they didn’t take me to a different screen. Someone else might not think to try to check more than one box if they don't see text saying “Select all that apply" or “Select all yoru expense categories.”

6. What do you think happens next?
- I think it’ll walk me through …


---

### Questions from: “Trip Info” page

1. Tell me what you are looking at.
- What if this appointment info isn’t right? Do I not file a claim to try to get it fixed? Do I not file a claim?
- Right now it doesn’t show the department, provider, or ID. None of that is included. 

3. What do you think is next?
- Next it'll take me to the parking screen. 

---

### Questions from: "Receipts" page

1. Tell me what you are looking at.
- So if I chose a file, it would auto add info it can read from the receipt? That’s what I assume since there are no boxes.
- Is this (Notes) field editable? It looks like it is. If it reads the receipt wrong, can I change it? I’d expect to be able to because the one above looks editable with the calendar dropdown. 

2. What do you think you need to do here? Why?
- This looks one-way. I’d need to add the other way, back to home. And I see I can add another receipt. 

3. What do you think is next?
- I’d expect a summary page next. 

---

### Questions from: “Review” page

1. Is this what you expect?
- Yes.

2. Tell me what you are looking at.
- This looks like the final verification of everything. My only question is what if one of these sections is wrong? Is the back button there in real life or do they have a 
“Click here to edit or change” button if I notice something is wrong?

3. What do you think is next?
- I’d expect to see a confirmation that it went through. 

---

### Questions from: “Submit” page

1. Tell me what you are looking at.
2. Do you think that you have submitted your request?
3. What do you think happens next? What tells you so?
4. What do you think you can do from here?

---

### Reflection Questions

1. You mentioned you like to call. Would you also be open to a live chat?
- Absolutely, that’d be fine.

2. On a scale of 1 to 10, how easy or difficult would you say this process was? What makes you say so? *Probe*
- Fairly easy. 1 or 2.

3. Easier than the last one?
- Not necessarily easy, but it looks more like what we’re currently using, so folks might be more comfortable with it.

4. What would you change about this process? *Probe*
- Same thing from the other one. What do I do if appointment info is wrong? If I have 4 appointments from last week, will all 4 of them show up? How would that work?

5. What would you keep about this process? *Probe*
- The live access. The phone or a chat. And I like the confirmation number too, because if I have to talk to someone later, this takes them exactly where they next to be to see what I did.

6. Anything else you want to share that we haven’t already covered?
- No.

---

## Comparison Questions

1. Which of these processes did you find easier? What makes you say so?
- No, they were both about the same for me.

3. Of everything that you looked at today, what would you say was the most confusing to you and why?
- Nothing.

4. Was there any point when preparing to make an appointment or making the appointment that you were told to collect and save your receipts?
- I found out when I got the 60 letters all said denied for this reason: proof of appointment. That's when I sent my first secure message to the travel office asking what to submit. A progress note? What are you looking for?

5. Were you ever told to collect receipts?
- No. 

