# Notes from 5/21 meeting with Bronwyn

- Their mandate came from the 2010 Veteran survey (which informed all the reports on our wall and the ones @melwoodard shared last week: [https://www.va.gov/VETDATA/index.asp](https://www.va.gov/VETDATA/index.asp).) They are working with the Census team to incorporate questions about Veterans because it sounds like the 2020 survey isn't funded. 
- Their goal was to increase awareness about benefits and eligibility for those benefits, how to apply, etc. They do so from a very communication & outreach-focused perspective, what Bronwyn calls a "blended strategy" of reaching out to people where they are. This includes a large email (1.4MM Veterans) list through Gov Delivery, paid advertising through Google, Facebook Live events, sharable videos, and strong partnerships with VSOs, VA administrations, and VAMCs, which extend her reach. 
- The type of research she described doing was A/B Testing, mouse tracking, some usability testing, and "human centered design interviews" but she no longer has that budget to continue that work. She did indicate that she gets feedback from Veterans frequently through her outreach, but it doesn't sound like our level of user testing/usability testing. **This may be an opportunity to do some of our own usability testing ON the benefits navigator to see how people use it/interpret the results. This could inform areas for improvement - both for us as we think about this tool, and for them.** 
- One of her major KPIs is how to get people to apply for benefits. Pushing email subscription is a huge part of their strategy to achieve that. One of the ways they track this KPI is through email opens and then % who "apply". That actually means clicking on the link on Explore to apply for a benefit, which will take the Veteran to Vets.gov or EBN, where the application lives. This measurement is limited in its tracking ability b/c if a Veteran doesn't finish the application in one session, they lose the trail, so to speak. However, she noted that she has a 17% "apply" rate from her emails, and a 50% open rate. 
- Videos are another cornerstone of her strategy, although she acknowledged that Veterans are not using them in the way she expected (by sharing them) but that they do drive traffic to the Explore site and get people to apply. Her rationale for the videos was that a) Veterans like seeing and hearing from other Veterans: "People want to see a person"; b) They're "real", meaning that the speakers may harsh a bit on VA, but still explain the benefit and how it helped them; c) Sometimes reading a long page of content about a complicated benefit doesn't help a Veteran understand how to use it. 
- She got VA-wide concurrence for her site, and so has a lot of buy-ins and strong relationships throughout the VA. This could be really useful for us if we could strategically leverage her relationships and communication savvy.
- Largely, she doesn't want to see Explore or the Benefits Navigator go away, and doesn't see how it fits into the Merger proposal for new VA home page. She felt it should have been tied to Vets.gov to begin with. 
- We know from some Veterans that they're a bit overwhelmed by the results of the navigator - lots of benefits thrown at you at once. It would be worth validating this through usability testing and learning what elements of this tool we could build on. 
- Per a conversation I had with Marcy last week, we should consider how we can leverage what already exists and has been built, especially for something like this. We don't have to follow exactly what she has done, but we should be mindful if we can use it in any way rather than scrap it and start anew. E.g. are there opportunities to bring the benefits navigator to our site? Are there opportunities to use her benefit videos? Perhaps there is a gap that her team is addressing in explaining to Veterans HOW to maximize use of a benefit they already have that we can pull from. 
- Right now Explore is a strong communication and outreach tool, with a useful navigator that maps out the benefits according to a bunch of complex eligibility rules, and makes good use of plain language and videos to explain tricky benefits. It is not a personalized experience, really, and it could stand to be usability tested to identify other room for additional development. 
