# P11 - Direct Deposit UAT

Monday September 9, 2019 10:30am ET

## Intro - 2 minutes

Thanks for joining us today! My name is Arthur and I also have some colleagues on the line observing and taking notes. Today we're going to talk about direct deposit at the VA. 

Before we start, a few things I want to mention:

- **This entire session should take about 10 minutes.** I want to be sure not to keep you much longer, so I may occasionally prompt you with the next question or topic.
- **In this session, we want to hear your honest opinions.** If you find something we show you to be confusing, we want to hear about it. Your honest insights help us to figure out how we can improve the veteran experience, and we will not be offended by any opinions you express.
- **If for any reason and at any time you want to stop the session, please let me know.** You will not be penalized in any way if we need to stop.

## Warm-up/Screener Questions - 3 minutes

OK,let's get started.

1. First, can you tell me a little bit about yourself? (If stuck, prompt to ask about service experience, where they live, their work).
    - **Veteran:** Retired from Marine Corps. Now work for an oxygen company. 

2. Next, I'd like to confirm: do you receive disability compensation or pension payments from the VA?
    - **Veteran:** I do, disability, yes.
3. Can you confirm for me that you have a DS Logon, MyHealtheVet, or ID.me account? 
    - **Veteran:** I have ID.me and DS Logon.
4. Do you know your username and password? 
    - **Veteran:** Ooh, boy. Which one do I need to log into? Let's see... I'm traveling and have my laptop so I'm trying to see if I can get into one of them. Ok I'm trying to log in... It's making me reset my password.
5. Can you tell me what type of computer you are using today? 
    - **Veteran:** It's a Mac.
6. Can you tell me which web browser you are using?
    - **Veteran:** Safari.
7. Today we are going to observe you interacting with the new tools on your computer. Would you feel comfortable sharing your screen with me at this time?  
    - **Veteran:** Yes.

**(Pass presenter rights).**

OK, please share your screen, and then we will get started.

_Participant shares screen_

## Testing direct deposit - 5 minutes

_Connects ID.me account to VA.gov_

- I'd like you to open a new tab in your browswer, and go to https://www.va.gov/profile-beta and login.
  - [X] **UAT TASK:** After login, link goes to profile.
  - [ ] **UAT TASK:** Confirm that they are LOA3. You'll know that they are because they'll see the profile. If they are not, they'll see a "Verify your identity" prompt. If they are not LOA3, **end the session**.  

### Participant was not LOA3 and we ended the session.
