# P12 - Direct Deposit UAT

Monday September 9, 2019 at 12pm ET

## Intro - 2 minutes

Thanks for joining us today! My name is Arthur and I also have some colleagues on the line observing and taking notes. Today we're going to talk about direct deposit at the VA. 

Before we start, a few things I want to mention:

- **This entire session should take about 10 minutes.** I want to be sure not to keep you much longer, so I may occasionally prompt you with the next question or topic.
- **In this session, we want to hear your honest opinions.** If you find something we show you to be confusing, we want to hear about it. Your honest insights help us to figure out how we can improve the veteran experience, and we will not be offended by any opinions you express.
- **If for any reason and at any time you want to stop the session, please let me know.** You will not be penalized in any way if we need to stop.

## Warm-up/Screener Questions - 3 minutes

OK,let's get started.

1. First, can you tell me a little bit about yourself? (If stuck, prompt to ask about service experience, where they live, their work).
    - **Veteran**: I served 14 years active duty. Combat medic in the US Military, Army. I currently live near DC and work for a nonprofit that helps service members.
2. Next, I'd like to confirm: do you receive disability compensation or pension payments from the VA?
    - **Veteran**: Disability.
3. Can you confirm for me that you have a DS Logon, MyHealtheVet, or ID.me account? 
    - **Veteran**: ID.me and DS Logon.
4. Do you know your username and password? 
    - **Veteran**: Um... I can... my ID.me, I can look in my email while I talk ot you right now.
5. Can you tell me what type of computer you are using today? 
    - **Veteran**: It's a PC.
6. Can you tell me which web browser you are using?
    - **Veteran**: Google Chrome.
7. Today we are going to observe you interacting with the new tools on your computer. Would you feel comfortable sharing your screen with me at this time?  
    - **Veteran**: Yes, let me log out of here and call you right back.

**(Pass presenter rights).**

OK, please share your screen, and then we will get started.

_Participant shares screen._

## Testing direct deposit - 5 minutes

- I'd like you to open a new tab in your browswer, and go to https://www.va.gov/profile-beta and login.
  - [X] **UAT TASK:** After login, link goes to profile.

### Participant is not LOA3, we ended the session.
