# P3: Direct Deposit UAT

September 4, 2019 12:00pm ET

Participant joined at 12:09pm ET. Some audio troubles, couldn't hear the participant. Participant hung up and called back, finally able to join with successful audio at 12:30pm ET.

## Intro - 2 minutes

Thanks for joining us today! My name is Arthur and I also have some colleagues on the line observing and taking notes. Today we're going to talk about direct deposit at the VA. 

Before we start, a few things I want to mention:

- **This entire session should take about 10 minutes.** I want to be sure not to keep you much longer, so I may occasionally prompt you with the next question or topic.
- **In this session, we want to hear your honest opinions.** If you find something we show you to be confusing, we want to hear about it. Your honest insights help us to figure out how we can improve the veteran experience, and we will not be offended by any opinions you express.
- **If for any reason and at any time you want to stop the session, please let me know.** You will not be penalized in any way if we need to stop.

## Warm-up/Screener Questions - 3 minutes

OK,let's get started.

1. First, can you tell me a little bit about yourself? (If stuck, prompt to ask about service experience, where they live, their work).
    - Served in Iraq and Afghanistan
    - Was in aviation combat unit
    - Retired now
    - Works at Dept of Veterans Affairs, then National Guard. Got deployed again but kept work at VA, supply and logistics.
    - Now works for Dept of Defense
2. Next, I'd like to confirm: do you receive disability compensation or pension payments from the VA?
    - Yes, I do.
3. Can you confirm for me that you have a DS Logon, MyHealtheVet, or ID.me account? 
    - All of the above.
4. Do you know your username and password? 
    - Yes.
5. Can you tell me what type of computer you are using today? 
    - I'm actually on my phone.
    - I can't do a screenshare on my phone.

[Ended the session because participant was unable to screenshare.]
