# P5: Direct Deposit UAT

September 5, 2019 at 8:30am ET

## Intro - 2 minutes

Thanks for joining us today! My name is Arthur and I also have some colleagues on the line observing and taking notes. Today we're going to talk about direct deposit at the VA. 

Before we start, a few things I want to mention:

- **This entire session should take about 10 minutes.** I want to be sure not to keep you much longer, so I may occasionally prompt you with the next question or topic.
- **In this session, we want to hear your honest opinions.** If you find something we show you to be confusing, we want to hear about it. Your honest insights help us to figure out how we can improve the veteran experience, and we will not be offended by any opinions you express.
- **If for any reason and at any time you want to stop the session, please let me know.** You will not be penalized in any way if we need to stop.

## Warm-up/Screener Questions - 3 minutes

OK,let's get started.

1. First, can you tell me a little bit about yourself? (If stuck, prompt to ask about service experience, where they live, their work).
    - **Veteran:** I'm a combat arms Veteran, retired military combat arms officer. Airborne ranger, combat Vietnam. Retired after 23 years. Currently live in NC.
2. Next, I'd like to confirm: do you receive disability compensation or pension payments from the VA?
    - **Veteran:** That is correct. I'm currently 30% disabled.
3. Can you confirm for me that you have a DS Logon, MyHealtheVet, or ID.me account? 
    - **Veteran:** I've got a MHV logon.
4. Do you know your username and password? 
    - **Veteran:** Name and password - okay hold on just a minute to make sure I can find it.
    - **Veteran:** Yeah, I think I got it.
5. Can you tell me what type of computer you are using today? 
    - **Veteran:** It's a PC laptop. Windows 8.1.
6. Can you tell me which web browser you are using?
    - **Veteran:** Chrome.
7. Today we are going to observe you interacting with the new tools on your computer. Would you feel comfortable sharing your screen with me at this time?  
    - **Veteran:** Sure, that will be fine.

**(Pass presenter rights).**

OK, please share your screen, and then we will get started.

_[Screenshare setup]_

## Testing direct deposit - 5 minutes

- I'd like you to open a new tab in your browser, and go to https://www.va.gov/profile-beta and login.

_Veteran navigates to link. Selects MHV to log in, is prompted to connect his account. Goes through steps to connect MHV account to VA.gov, then goes through 2FA process._

  - [X] **UAT TASK:** After login, link goes to profile.
  - [X] **UAT TASK:** Confirm that they are LOA3. You'll know that they are because they'll see the profile. If they are not, they'll see a "Verify your identity" prompt. If they are not LOA3, **end the session**.  
- Now please click the "Direct Deposit Information" link you see at the top of the page. 
  - [X] **UAT TASK:** Direct deposit link shows up.
  - [X] **UAT TASK:** Direct deposit link jumps down to the direct deposit section.
- 2FA steps
  - [X] **UAT TASK:** If they don't have 2FA, they are prompted to add it. [_**Notetaker note:** Marking this as complete, but the step was completed as part of the MyHealtheVet account connection and login process, which was before the participant got to the profile page._]
  - [X] **UAT TASK:** After they add 2FA, the direct deposit feature shows in the profile.
- So now we're looking at the direct deposit feature. First, can you click "How do I change my direct deposit information for GI Bill and other education benefits?". 
  - [X] **UAT TASK:** FAQ opens up and appears to be formatted correctly.
- Next, can you click "Go to eBenefits to change your information
  - [X] **UAT TASK:** Link goes to eBenefits.
- Let's got back to the profile. Now, can you click "Find out how to change your information by mail or phone."
  - [X] **UAT TASK:** Link goes to content page.
- Let's got back to the profile. Now, can you click "What’s my bank’s routing number?
  - [X] **UAT TASK:** FAQ opens up and appears to be formatted correctly.
- OK, now please take a look at the direct deposit information. Is it correct?
  - [X] **UAT TASK:** Direct deposit information has shown up in their profile.
  - [X] **UAT TASK:** User confirms direct deposit info is correct.
- Next, please click any of the Edit links you see.
  - [X] **UAT TASK:** Direct deposit form opens and appears to be formatted correctly.
- Without filling anything out, please click Update while the form is still blank.
  - [X] **UAT TASK:** Required errors are returned.
- Now click Cancel.
  - _Participant closes browser tab, moderator helps him navigate back to va.gov/profile-beta._
  - [X] **UAT TASK:** Form closes.
- You have the option to stop screensharing here if you'd like, because what we'll do next is ask you to please open the form again and add your direct deposit information, even if it is already correct in your profile. Then click "Update." 
  - _Participant chooses to stop screensharing_
  - _Participant asks his wife to bring over his checkbook. Participant enters direct deposit information_
  - **Veteran:** Okay, I've entered it. And then hit update?
- Moderator: Yes, please.
  - **Veteran:** It went back to the screen. 
- Moderator: Does everything look correct?
  - **Veteran:** Yes.
  - [X] **UAT TASK:** Form closes, and the direct deposit information shows in the profile.

## Post-Task Interview - 1 minutes

- Do you have any feedback on what we looked at today?
  - **Veteran:** No.
- Do you have any questions for me?
  - **Veteran:** I do not.

## Thank-You and Closing

Well we really appreciate you taking the time to test these updates today. This helps us to make sure everything will work when we launch these updates for all Veterans on VA.gov.

As a thank you for your participation, we'd like to send you a $50 thank-you check. This will be sent by Shannon, and she'll work with you to figure out the right place to send it.

Any questions before we sign off?
- **Veteran:** No questions, just a comment. The beta appears to be working pretty well.
- **Veteran:** Actually I do have one question. Do the other people who are online with us and talking to you, do they have any questions that I can answer? 

[_Moderator asks observers and notetakers if there are any questions, there are not!_]

No further questions from our side, just appreciation for your time. Great, well thank you so much again, and enjoy the rest of your day!
