# P6: Direct Deposit UAT

Thursday 9/5/19 10AM ET

## Intro - 2 minutes

Thanks for joining us today! My name is Arthur and I also have some colleagues on the line observing and taking notes. Today we're going to talk about direct deposit at the VA. 

Before we start, a few things I want to mention:

- **This entire session should take about 10 minutes.** I want to be sure not to keep you much longer, so I may occasionally prompt you with the next question or topic.
- **In this session, we want to hear your honest opinions.** If you find something we show you to be confusing, we want to hear about it. Your honest insights help us to figure out how we can improve the veteran experience, and we will not be offended by any opinions you express.
- **If for any reason and at any time you want to stop the session, please let me know.** You will not be penalized in any way if we need to stop.

## Warm-up/Screener Questions - 3 minutes

OK,let's get started.

1. First, can you tell me a little bit about yourself? (If stuck, prompt to ask about service experience, where they live, their work).
    - [_**Notetaker note:** Call started a minute early, did not catch this section_]
2. Next, I'd like to confirm: do you receive disability compensation or pension payments from the VA?
    - **Veteran:** Yes I do.
- **If no, the participant can not complete UAT**. Confirm/probe if they seem confused, but if they are sure they do not receive compensation or pension payments, end the session.
3. Can you confirm for me that you have a DS Logon, MyHealtheVet, or ID.me account? 
    - **Veteran:** Yes, I have DS Logon.
4. Do you know your username and password? 
    - **Veteran:** I don't, they are not in front of me. I keep them in a manila envelope at the house, and bring them in once a month to print out my statements. 
    - **Veteran:** I can call my wife and have her read them out to me, I'm available all day today and tomorrow.
    - _Moderator discusses with Veteran if he's able to get access to the login info in the next few minutes. He agrees to step away and call his wife quickly and come back to the call._
    - _Veteran returns to the call_
    - **Veteran:** Okay I am logged in and I see my name at the top of VA.gov, it says I'm logged in.
5. Can you tell me what type of computer you are using today? 
    - **Veteran:** I'm on my work terminal computer, it's a Dell workstation.
6. Can you tell me which web browser you are using?
    - **Veteran:** I'm on Internet Explorer.
7. Today we are going to observe you interacting with the new tools on your computer. Would you feel comfortable sharing your screen with me at this time? 
    - **Veteran:** Sure.

**(Pass presenter rights).**

OK, please share your screen, and then we will get started.

_Shares screen, moderator helps Veteran navigate to /profile-beta._

## Testing direct deposit - 5 minutes

- I'd like you to open a new tab in your browswer, and go to https://www.va.gov/profile-beta and login.
  - [X] **UAT TASK:** After login, link goes to profile. [_**Notetaker note:**_ The participant logged in prior to re-joining the call, and was looking at VA.gov when he began screensharing. The moderator helped him type in the test URL to the URL bar in the browser, which then showed his profile.]
  - [X] **UAT TASK:** Confirm that they are LOA3. You'll know that they are because they'll see the profile. 
- Now please click the "Direct Deposit Information" link you see at the top of the page. 
  - [X] **UAT TASK:** Direct deposit link shows up.
  - [X] **UAT TASK:** Direct deposit link jumps down to the direct deposit section.
- (If applicable — skip if they already have 2FA) It looks like you need to set up 2FA. Let's do that before we continue (walk them through how to set up 2FA).
  - [X] **UAT TASK:** If they don't have 2FA, they are prompted to add it.
   - **Veteran:** Here is my first frustration. I have so many doggone passwords and now I have to do 2 factor. So now I'm getting a sticky note out. I have to do it for banking and direct deposit, and now I've got to do it for VA.gov. I understand why because you don't want anyone getting in. But it's very frustrating. I'm going to go ahead and do it.
  - [X] **UAT TASK:** After they add 2FA, the direct deposit feature shows in the profile.
- So now we're looking at the direct deposit feature. First, can you click "How do I change my direct deposit information for GI Bill and other education benefits?". 
  - [X] **UAT TASK:** FAQ opens up and appears to be formatted correctly.
- Next, can you click "Go to eBenefits to change your information
  - [X] **UAT TASK:** Link goes to eBenefits. (_Notetaker note: Was slow to load_)
- Let's got back to the profile. Now, can you click "Find out how to change your information by mail or phone."
  - [X] **UAT TASK:** Link goes to content page.
- Let's got back to the profile. Now, can you click "What’s my bank’s routing number?
  - [X] **UAT TASK:** FAQ opens up and appears to be formatted correctly.
- OK, now please take a look at the direct deposit information. Is it correct?
  - [X] **UAT TASK:** Direct deposit information has shown up in their profile.
  - [X] **UAT TASK:** User confirms direct deposit info is correct.
- Next, please click any of the Edit links you see.
  - [X] **UAT TASK:** Direct deposit form opens and appears to be formatted correctly.
- Without filling anything out, please click Update while the form is still blank.
  - [X] **UAT TASK:** Required errors are returned.
   - **Veteran:** I'm concerned about putting this information in on an unsecured website. Should I be concerned about putting banking information in that it could be compromised?
- Not in this environment, and that is backed up by the 2-factor authentication you just completed.
- Now click Cancel.
  - [X] **UAT TASK:** Form closes.
- Please open the form again and add your direct deposit information, even if it is already correct in your profile. Then click "Update." Please feel free to stop screensharing if you'd like during this portion of the session. _Participant elects to stop screensharing_
  - **Veteran:** Okay I pushed it, it says we're sorry, we couldn't update your payment information. Please try again. I'm thinking I put too many zeroes in there so let me take a few out.
- Sure, take your time.
  - **Veteran:** Okay it appears to have gone through because the error message went away.
  - **Veteran:** Where should I see the updated information? The window went away.
- It should appear in the Direct Deposit information section. Does the updated information look correct?
  - **Veteran:** Yes it does.
  - [X] **UAT TASK:** Form closes, and the direct deposit information shows in the profile.

## Post-Task Interview - 1 minutes

- Do you have any feedback on what we looked at today?
  - **Veteran:** There's no feedback issues, it comes in every month, no issues there. I guess it's just the... for me, the frustration is trying to remember usernames and passwords. When you asked me that, I wondered where to find that information because I don't go on this home page a lot. Someday we'll invent something where you can remember all your passwords. My wife had to go into the filing cabinet which was a little frustrating. I have no issues with direct deposit, I get messages when they say it's going to come through on the first rather than the 30th because of a federal holiday.
  
- Do you have any questions for me?
  - **Veteran:** I'm a little wary about putting in my personal information on a screen that may not be secure. The way they do this... I like that there is a 2-step. What if my phone number changes down the road. How do I get back into the system? 

[_Discussion about updating phone number in profile._]

## Thank-You and Closing

Well we really appreciate you taking the time to test these updates today. This helps us to make sure everything will work when we launch these updates for all veterans on VA.gov.

As a thank you for your participation, we'd like to send you a $50 thank-you check. This will be sent by Shannon, and she'll work with you to figure out the right place to send it.

Any questions before we sign off?

- **Veteran:** No, hopefully you found my feedback helpful.
- **Veteran:** Yeah, if I can't remember my password, how do I get it back?

[_Discussion about password recovery, forgot password functions_]

[_Closing and wrap up_]
