# Notetaker: Peter Russo

*Was on a phone but switched to desktop. Not sure what operating system, looks windows-ish? But definitely customized*

## 1: Upcoming In-Person Appointment

You know you have an appointment scheduled with Dr. Ralph Scott and want to know more information about it. How would you do that from here.

- Click on details. I don’t see a scrollbar so my initial assumption is that there's nothing below that.

> Discusses missing scrollbar

F: Redirects

I’m assuming these details get generated when I make the appointment, so a lot of it is generated by the provider. I’m computer savvy, not an IT guy but a lot of them work for me. I see cancel appointment and print, but no way to edit/reschedule the appt.

Then, if i click “add to calendar” is that going to work? On my phone it tends to be pretty good, but on the computer I wonder if it’s actually going to put it on one of my calendars.

The other thought is the directions link going to work? On my phone…I have Apple but I deleted the maps app, so when I do directions on my phone I don't know if it’s going to work. But I'm never going to click that since I'm just going to put it into Waze.

As a former medical (something) officer. If it’s one bldg this is okay but once you get into locations in hospitals or if there’s multiple clinics you’re going to get into trouble. But that’s not you, that’s a function of what the health care facility puts in. This is prolly more of an issue for larger facilities like a hospital. Any of the big military hospitals and you’ve got to find room 102 or the Optometry clinic - depending on where I park, and the entrance I go into makes it easier or harder to find where I'm going. Even a facility map would be helpful. Ideally you’d say enter at this entrance and seek help at the info desk. Again, not an app issue, you guys are good (laughs).

Everything else looks great. It’s real clean. Not too much. I don’t think it’d be hard for anybody. Mainly just the scrollbar.

**Follow up:**

- What are your thoughts on this page?
- What other tasks do you notice on this page?

**Things to watch for:**

- Can participant find where their appointment will be?
- Can participant understand the information on the details page?

## 2: Pre check-in task

If participant cannot find the "Review your personal healthcare contacts"

Down at the bottom of this page, there is a link to "review your personal healthcare contacts" .

Expectation, i’d be looking for the forms they need me to fill out, how to prep for my labs. But I actually read the link title and that doesn’t really seem to match “prepare for your visit”.

> Clicks link, reviews page

Okay. This doesn't seem to be a function of preparing for my appointment. I think that should be a separate link. If there’s things I really need to do to prepare, that should be in there. I was a medical guy in the army for 32 years so my depth of knowledge of what happens in hospitals comes from that. “Bring your prosthetics, eye drops etc” is more what I think about for preparing for the visit.

However, maintaining personal health care contacts is important. I see that as happening when you login to the site or at the appropriate spot. That’s the problem with DS Logon, where they ask you for personal info and it loops you back to where you started. So it’s on my mind. You guys could ask me to verify the contact info when I make my appt.

**Follow up:**

- What do/did you expect when you clicked that link?

**Things to watch for:**

- Does participant notice the link?
- Is the link perceived as a task?
- Can participant find their way back from personal healthcare contacts page?

## 3: Upcoming closed video appointment

You have a video appointment scheduled with Allison Carter next month. You want more information on the appointment, how would you do that from here?

I’m gonna go back, but I don't think you want me to do that. From here….um…

> searches for a way to do it

I’d probably go to My HealtheVet and go from there. I can’t do that so I'd use my back button. I was looking for something that said appointments or back to appointments.

> Opens correct appointment

Not knowing what the sleep medicine is about, if you just want to review your stuff that makes sense as a vid appointment, otherwise it doesn’t make much sense (laughs).

I don’t see a link, I don't know if you’d get that later.

Need to make changes - that’s interesting, didn’t see that on the last one.

F: Redirects to language at the top.

I scrolled right past that. You could

leave it up there and you could even add it in the “how to join” saying the link will be dropped here 30 minutes before the appointment. Or under “prepare for your visit” you could add it there. I scrolled right past it.

**Follow up:**

- What are your thoughts on this page?
- How would you get ready for this appointment?

**Things to watch for:**

- Can participant find information on how to prepare for their appointment?
- Does participant understand how to join their appointment?

### 4: Upcoming open video appointment

You have another video appointment with cardiology, would you find that appointment?

Scrolls a bit and finds it

Ah “Join appointment!” nice. I read it this time. The first time you get in there people are gonna assume they know what it said. This is nice, I love having join appt at the top. Even if you do put something down further, you should retain this. Look at that, join appointment is right there, so i clicked on that - that’s good. If i'm coming back to join the appointment, not making me scroll down again has a good feeling to it. You could even put a message in there that if you make an appointment there’s something that drives them to it like a banner or balloon. Like an unread message. So I bring up my appointments and there’s something in there that says “review” to make sure I verify it. I know there’s a verification process when you make the appointment but I’m overly cautious.

**Follow up:**

- What do you notice about the appointment information?

**Things to watch for:**

- Does participant notice the "join appointment" link before the other CTA's?

### 5: ATLAS

You have an audiology scheduled for 2 pm on Wednesday the 14th and want to find out how to get to the appointment. How would you do that from here?

So they have to go somewhere to do it by video? Same comment for “prepare for your visit”, that just seems off. So there’s a site you have to go to and log on, so there’s things they want to show you so there’s something you have to do.

The thing that draws your attention is the bolded words. You may need that sentence at the top. I don’t want to go to two locations to see how to join. That should all be together.

**Follow up:**

- What do you notice about the appointment information?
- How are you to attend this appointment?
- How would you make changes to this appointment?

**Things to watch for:**

- Does participant understand the missing information?
- Does participant understand where to go for this appointment?
- Can participant find the "need to make changes" information?

### 6: Phone appointment

You have a phone appointment with Nancy Portman and want to know more info about it, how would you do that?

I have the setting set that if you’re not in my phone contacts you go direct to voicemail. If I'm waiting for someone to call me I'll turn that off, but I forget sometimes. That could impact someone being called. I prefer to have a number I can call, that’d be good.

Looks at “scheduling facility”

It seems like your titles are changing across appointments. I see what you’re trying to get at. I know where to go to get the information, how to join; your provider is going to call you. I’m looking for things to be the same and they’re not. There’s like one line that’s different across them. Over time you’d get used to it but that first time…

I’ve never used va.gov to make appointments, I'll usually call so this is new to me. I’ll probably start digging into it more.

**Follow up:**

- How do you attend this appointment?
- What else can you do from this page?

**Things to watch for:**

- Does participant understand how to attend this appointment?

### 7: Cancellation

You have a phone appointment with Nancy Portman and want to know more info about it, how would you do that?

If I hit yes I’m expecting an “are you sure?” always a good thing to have. For “no”, if you don’t cancel it you can always click again, so you don’t need that confirmation. And on the yes I'm looking for a confirmation and maybe an email so I have a record that it’s been canceled. And if it’s inside 24 hours you want them to call the facility. It’s a problem we’ve had, if you do that too many times you actually do get penalized. Calling lets them give their reasonings.

F: Directs to click yes

It’s one extra click to confirm, a hassle for some people but…this all looks good. This is pulling from the database so all this looks good.

**Follow up:**

- If you decided that you no longer wanted this appointment, how would you go about canceling it?
- Confirmation your cancellation: What would you expect to see if you hit "Yes, cancel appointment"?
- Confirmation your cancellation: What would you expect to see if you hit "No, do not cancel"?
- Appointment Canceled: What can you do from here?

**Things to watch for:**

- Can participant find the cancellation button?
- What does participant expect from canceling an appointment?

### 8: After visit summary

You had a podiatry appointment last month and want to review what was discussed in the appointment. Where would you go to find that information?

Easily finds past link

I wouldn’t think there’d be too many details

Finds AVS link

That’s cool, I didn’t expect that. This makes it easier. I think you need - it could be under more information - but you could have referrals under that. Pretty standard after your annual. Depending on how old you are. On average for me following each annual i did it was at least three, if not more referrals for different things. I’d expect that in after visit summary. I’d expect a separate header for referrals. I’d think I'm going back there to look because the doc asked me to do something. I’ve got 4-5 things he’s asking me to put in. I’ve never had 100 percent where that’s happened and I’d have to follow up. I can go in there and dig into it and see which referrals I haven't done. To me that would be the utility - for me to drive the train and get what I need vs waiting for the system to find me. If you can give the people the ability to make those changes and move forward with that process it would help with a lot of the issues.

**Follow up:**

- Tell me about the experience of finding that information.

**Things to watch for:**

- Can participant easily find their after visit summary?
- Can participant easily navigate back from their after visit summary?

### 9: Appointment request

You made an appointment request and wanted to check on the status. How would you do that from here?

Uses back button, clicks pending

So yeah pending would be…um i’d assume this would be referrals that would be hanging out there. 

> Looks through the page. 

“How you prefer to attend” I'm assuming that’s the only choice. I’m wondering - I don't see a way to select it. 

So i’ve requested an appt, those are the dates i gave - oh this is all stuff i’ve put in there - had i done that it would have made more sense. It all makes sense now. I think it would have been different if i’d been the one to do it. 

Maybe an option to change would be good, if none of those dates work. Of course I could call the facility. One thing about the phones, across the board for the military health system, va health system, they're not very good at giving you the number to get you to the right person. If I have a question for the actual clinic or provider or nurse, it’d be helpful for me in any appointment setting. That could be in the “prepare” area. Other than that i got no problems with this, i’d just add the change option.

**Follow up:**

- Tell me about the experience of finding that information.

**Things to watch for:**

- Can participant find pending appointments?
- Does participant understand pending appointments?
- Does participant understand the information on the details page?

### 10: Empty State

You have a VA Appointment on January 10 at 2:30

> struggles with prototype issue, then finds it

Interesting that it went to the bottom. It’s a function of the app in an app. It wouldn’t do that if i was coming in Live. I have app devs and software devs at work and have had IT depts work for me, and teams like yours and I have them brief me. So this is familiar.

> Scans page

I’d try to make everything be the same across the different screens. For actual appointments that are on the schedule, all the categories should be the same. How to attend, how to prepare. Cancel or change, print. I’m looking for all that information, I'm looking for it to be standard. Pending will be a little different  - but everything else, each one has been a little different. Not overly bad but I'm still looking for that stuff. The nuances that are different shouldn’t affect the info I need to give you for your appointment. The “what” isn’t necessarily one you need there - it’s typically the headline for your appointment. I LIKE THat the time is up front. The when and where are my biggest things. Then anything I need to prepare is out there. That’s where all the nuanced stuff goes. But even prepare for your appointment, a notes section to capture any nuances that are out there. Then print, cancel, or update and how to do that. If the update is you gotta call, then you gotta call. I’d always have a 

