## 6-1-2023 - Internal team meeting
- Attendees: Jessica Stump, Luis Samauchi, Hieu Vo, Heather Justice
- Resource: [Reg Only Mural board](https://app.mural.co/t/departmentofveteransaffairs9999/m/departmentofveteransaffairs9999/1684348883203/49fc4ff1bf31f3cabe200663708c1002645b447f?sender=u5ad49c107baa41137f271007)

### Notes
- During today's meeting, we discussed the possibility of refactoring the current EZ flow to complete "Registration" fields first, and prompting for enrollment eligibility based on various criteria.  
- We have a standing bi-weekly mtg with the VES modernization team who is also working on decoupling "Registration Only" from enrollment on the Enrollment system side - This meeting is happening today.  
     - We will be collaborating with this team to align on outcomes and solutions.
- Heather has reached out to the VA product managers inquiring if anyone has access to volumes of Veteran disability ratings to get a sense of the landscape there, helping to narrow our audiences.  
     - Pending response.
- Jessica will work a bit more on research questions, collaborate with Kristen M. and Shane on possible research audiences for Veterans who visit VAMCs (or other facilities) but are not enrolled in VA Health care.

For our next meeting:
- We will share what we have learned and create a rough outline of how we would present our experimental flow to research participants.
