# Conversation Guide for [1010 Team, 10-10EZ, Household financial information section usability/UAT]


*Start recording.*

- **I have started recording**. I'd like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record my screen and the audio as we talk today?
- **Are you comfortable if we decide to use a recorded clip from our discussion today to share with other VA partners, if we remove any information that can be used to identify you?**



## Task: [Start Application] - 5 minutes

- For this session today, we are going to work through the scenario that you are interested in applying for VA health care. Please use your own information, except for your social security number. For that number, make one up. You'll be able to submit the application, but it won't be a real application, so it won't be processed by the VA. Also, in this case you won't log in with your VA user account.

- You arrive at [this page](https://staging.va.gov/health-care/apply/application/introduction).
  > Please explain what the content on this page means to you and what you would do next.

[ Scrolls to bottom where it says to apply not sign in]
> The start your application without signing in is pretty small, I miss that.
> I like that at the very top it talks about mental health care.
> They don't want to go to their day to day care but sometimes need mental health care from the VA.

[Link to staging site of introduction page to the 10-10EZ health care application]




**Participant questions:**
- On a scale of 1-5 (1 being very poorly and 5 being very well) - how prepared does this page make you feel about the application you are about to begin? - Why did you give it that rating?

> I would say, about 5. It lists everything, your social security, .... it is clear what you will need.

- Can you tell us more about what you would have to do in preparation for filling out this application?



- [If participant says they would sign in] What method/login would you use to sign in? How often do you sign in to VA.gov?

> Um, I would {sign in} been on the system for 13 years now.
> I use ID.me
> {often} Pretty often, constentley looking for informaitn for Veterans. 


### Things to watch for:
- [Quotes from participant about any content on the intro page that makes them feel uneasy, confused or not prepared to complete the application.]
- [Comments about time and/or actions to gather information mentioned on intro page.]
- [Does the partipant sign in as a next action or do they say they would complete the application without signing in?]

#### Observer rating of task completion
- [Observer ratings of start application task completion using rating criteria]
- 0 = No part of the task completed, much difficulty
- 1 = Partial completion, much overlooked or task was difficult 
- 2 = Partial completion, some areas were overlooked or task was slightly difficult
- 3 = Most of the task was completed with little difficulty
- 4 = All parts of the task were completed with no difficulty 




## Task: [Step 1: Veteran Information] - 5 minutes
- Could you please complete this section of the form and talk aloud about what you would need to do as you go.

> It is pretty straighforward.
[enters info on first page easily]
> Pretty straightforwad and easy.
[goes through and pauses on birth sex page to call out progress steps]
> At the top it says step 1 of 6, it makes you feel like you only have 6 pages to do.
> That says step 1 of 6 but I am already on page 3.

[quietly completes to 





### Things to watch for:
- [Does the participant comment on the first 4 following pages and that they show the same questions with info prefilled if they go the non-sign in route?]
- [If the participant comments on this, is it positive or negative?]

#### Observer rating of task completion
- [Observer ratings of start application task completion using rating criteria]
- 0 = No part of the task completed, much difficulty
- 1 = Partial completion, much overlooked or task was difficult 
- 2 = Partial completion, some areas were overlooked or task was slightly difficult
- 3 = Most of the task was completed with little difficulty
- 4 = All parts of the task were completed with no difficulty 

> 4

## Task: [Step 2: VA Benefits] - 3 minutes (skip/select no if time crunched)
- Continue completing the questions in the section of the form.


answers for a service connected disability of over 50%!

[redirects to back up and answer disability rating differently]







### Things to watch for:
- [Does the participant understand the questions and content through these sections?]
- [Does the participant comment that the questions are too intrusive?]
- [Does the participant select a disability rating that results in the short form flow?]
- [Does the particpant select an option that results in the VA pension question page?]


## Task: [Step 3: Military Service] - 2 minutes

- Continue completing the application and answer the fields about your military service information.


### Things to watch for:
- [Does the participant understand the questions and content through these sections?]
- [Does the participant comment that the questions are too intrusive or the VA should have this information?]
- [Does the particpant comment that there is something missing from the list]



## Task: [Step 3: Military Service / Upload Document] - 3 minutes (skip/select no if time crunched)

- Can you please explain the instruction on this page? We won't actually be uploading a file today but walk me through your process if you were to complete this question.
- Can you tell me more about what you would have to do to get this document and complete this task?


> I like that you can upload on your phone.
> I used to be digging through boxes, but now it is on my phone.
> The VA lost my paperwork like 4 times when I first got out
> I have it saved on my phone now.
> Here I could say I uploaded on this date in your system.

> I would request it if I didn't have it. Again. go through boxes to find it and then take pictures.
> Something on here, a link to where you can request your DD214.



### Things to watch for:
- [Does the participant understand the use of upload file/document?]
- [Does the participant enter a discharge date that is in the future or that was very recent?]

#### Observer rating of task completion
- [Observer ratings of start application task completion using rating criteria]

- 3 = Most of the task was completed with little difficulty

> 3

## Task: [Step 4: Household Information / Financial Disclosure] - 3 minutes

- Begin completing this section of the health care application. 
- Talk through what what the content means to you and what you would do.


> [scrolls up and down]
> It all seems pretty straightforward
> Do I put yes or no on the financial information?
> Yeah, that is pretty straighforward
[Enters spouse name and information easily]
> [no pausing on live with page questions]


### Things to watch for:

- [Does the participant understand the financial disclosure page?]
- [Does the participant open the additional info on qualifying eligibility factors?]
- [Does the participant click yes or no on the financial disclosure page and express any negative sentiment towards this ask?]



#### Observer rating of task completion
- [Observer ratings of start application task completion using rating criteria]
- 0 = No part of the task completed, much difficulty
- 1 = Partial completion, much overlooked or task was difficult 
- 2 = Partial completion, some areas were overlooked or task was slightly difficult
- 3 = Most of the task was completed with little difficulty
- 4 = All parts of the task were completed with no difficulty 

> 4


## Task: [Step 4: Household Information / Spouse Information] - 5 minutes
- Proceed with the application with answering the next question. 
- [If selected Married/Separated for Marital Status] Continue completing all the questions about your spouse and please remember to think aloud.  

### Things to watch for:
- [Does the participant make any comments about this page happening after the financial disclosure page?]
- [Does the participant comment on or interact with the additional info component - "why we ask this information"?]
- [Does the participant comment on the second spouse page with the two lived with/address questions?]
- [Does the participant comment the question is intrusive or that they would skip and/or answer untruthfully?]



## Task: [Step 4: Household Information / Dependents / Experimental Pattern] - 5 minutes

- For this scenario, we would like you to answer as if you have 2 dependents.
- Please answer the questions on this page and proceed through that scenario. You can use fake information for fields like SSN and I can help prompt you with information if needed. 

- [Once added the first dependent] Now can you add that second dependent.
- [Once both are added] Okay, now let's say you need to make changes to your first dependent - you need to correct their birthdate. Can you please walk me through how you would go about doing that?
- Can you show me how you could take a dependent off of this application? 


> that was a hard question to answer
> She just turned 18, empty nester
[Answers yes for all additional info questions]
[Enters 0 on income page after stating yes had income]
[Easily adds second dependent[
> It is fairly striaghtforward
> Even if I didn't know about filling out online forms, it is faily easy


> Click the edit button
> I like that it is right under thier name, you can click right there
> And you don't have to go back a lot
> And you can cancel editing [points out button]
> I like the fact that the remove is red with an x. And yeah, it double checks you want to remove them in case you accidently hit the button.

> again there is that safety that you are done with dependents.

### Things to watch for:

- [Does the participant need to use the additional info of "Who does VA consider a dependent" to answer the question?]
- [Does the participant struggle with adding a second dependent?]
- [Does the participant pause or are they confused by any of the dependent information questions?]
- [Does the participant easily edit and make changes through the dependent edit flow? Do they comment on wanting to see all their answers on a single screen?]
- [Does the participant comment on the modals when cancel a flow or going to remove a dependent from the application?]



#### Observer rating of task completion
- [Observer ratings of start application task completion using rating criteria]

- 4 = All parts of the task were completed with no difficulty 

> 4


## Task: [Step 4: Household Information / Income and Deductibles] - 5 minutes

- Complete the questions asked on this page. Please talk aloud about the questions and information presented to you here.
- [Continue clicked by participant and they answered married/separated] Complete your spouse's income information.
- In real life, how long would it take you to gather and make sure you were entering the correct information here?


> this is very easy to answer
[flys through questions, does not interact with additional info]
- in real life question prompt
> Again it being digital, very easy to pull up a bank statement. Use a calculator to see how much I made.
> Again we are in the digital age, so it is super easy to look that stuff up.

### Things to watch for:

- [Does the participant seem confused by any of the content or help text provided?]
- [Does the participant comment that they would not want to provide this information?]
- [Does the participant indicate it would take a significant amount of time and delay the application to answer any of these questions?]


## Task: [Step 5: Insurance Information] - 3 minutes (skip/select no if time crunched)

- Please explain what this section of the form means to you as you work through answering the questions.

### Things to watch for:
- [Does the participant understand this question or are they confused and need additional context?]
- [Do the medicaid and medicare questions cause pause or confuse the participant?]


## Task: [Step 5: Insurance Information / Facilities] - 2 minutes (skip/select no if time crunched)

- What are your impressions of what this page is asking for and why it is needed for this application?

[Back to facilities page, kept info from before]
> Um, again I like that you can do the facility locator from the page, you can close it.
> I like that they have a thing for the VA to contact you.
> We don't like to make the calls,
> It would be great for them to call and setup an appointment with me

[why this page is needed prompt]
> So that they can get, that you have care around you. So you can see community care.
> VA is over an hour drive.
> That gives them an idea of where you are at, where you need your care at. And location

### Things to watch for:
- [How does the participant prefer to search and/or sort facilities?]
- [Does the participant interact with the additional links on the facilities page?]


## Task: [Step 6: Review] - 3 minutes

- Explain what you would do on this page and complete the application.
- Before submitting, let's say you wanted to review what you entered for your dependents and correct some informaiton there. Can you walk me through how you would do that? 


> [opens Veteran info]
> I would double check all my informaiton to make sure everything is correct.
> I like I can change it or update it without going back.
[Opens other sections for review]
> I definetly like the edit


**Participant questions:**
- On a scale of 1-5 (1 being non very poorly and 5 being very well) - how prepared does this page make you feel to submit this application? Why?
> Acutally really prepared
> You can review everything, double check entries, if you messed up you can edit it right there
> 5

- Is there any reason you wouldn't submit the application at this step?
  > Other than personal preference, I don't see why you wouldn't submit it.

### Things to watch for:

- [Does the participant have a positive or negative sentiment about the review page?]
- [Does the participant give any reason for pause or why they wouldn's submit the application?]
- [Does the participant interact with any of the accordions or try and edit any information?]


## Task: [Step 6: Confirmation] - 3 minutes

- What are your thoughts on this page now that you have submitted your application?
- What are your expectations of what is on this page and what would happen next?
- Would you do anything on this page or pause before moving on?
    
[scans page]
> I like the fact that you can print the application.
> I would like a button that you could save it to your phone as a file.
> My printer doesn't work, I don't think I have used it in 12 years.
> A place where you could download it to your phone would be a good addition to this
> I like you can find out what happens
> A question a lot of Veterans have, how long is this going to take?
> Differences in cases, no estimate in time.
> It took me 10 years to get to my 100%, it took forever. It was very stressful, do I have health care do I not have health care.
> [not transparent]
> Next step, go to the health care applicaiton page, and sign up for the health care page. 

> I would enter the information, becuase it would make the process longer if I didn't.
> If you are not service connected, they don't know how much you make, if you are not service connected.
- Learn that prompt
> I do paperwork for people all the time. It takes forever if they don't have all the information on hand. It would be the VA calling me 10 days from the applicaiton and we need this this and this. Can you bring it to the office?
> You have added 10 days to the process of you application




### Things to watch for:

- [Does the participant seem unclear on what happens next?]
- [Does the participant feel confident that they know what the next steps in the process are?]
- [Does the participant have positive or negative reaction to the confirmation page?]



## Post-Task Interview - 5 minutes

- [NPS Question]
- How likely are you to recommend this online application to another Veteran? [Scale of 0 - 10]

> Definutely a 10
> I am contantly tryign to get Vetarans to sign up
> I volunteer, I am always passing that information on
> I would say it is pretty user friendly even for the older Veterans who are not as tech savvy as my generation

- Did any of the questions stand out to you as unnecessary?
  > No
  > I thought they were all necessary, if you didn't ask the questions about dependents that affects if you are not service connected, ties into income. 
- Did anything seem to be missing?
> No
