# Conversation Guide for [1010 Team, 10-10EZ, Household financial information section usability/UAT]

## P2
### Monday, August 21, 2023 at 1pm ET / 10am PT

*Start recording.*

- **I have started recording**. I'd like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record my screen and the audio as we talk today?
- **Are you comfortable if we decide to use a recorded clip from our discussion today to share with other VA partners, if we remove any information that can be used to identify you?**



## Task: [Start Application] - 5 minutes

- For this session today, we are going to work through the scenario that you are interested in applying for VA health care. Please use your own information, except for your social security number. For that number, make one up. You'll be able to submit the application, but it won't be a real application, so it won't be processed by the VA. Also, in this case you won't log in with your VA user account.

[scrolls through page]


- You arrive at [this page](https://staging.va.gov/health-care/apply/application/introduction). Please explain what the content on this page means to you and what you would do next.

[Link to staging site of introduction page to the 10-10EZ health care application]


**Participant questions:**
- On a scale of 1-5 (1 being very poorly and 5 being very well) - how prepared does this page make you feel about the application you are about to begin? - Why did you give it that rating?

> So 5 is a good one? Yeah, 5 is fine
> it is easy to menuveur
> I like that you could save it and come back, in case you don't have the information at hand.
> Come back and fill in whatever is missing.
> I remember when I was going through a process had to start over again, had some things missing, couldn't remember. Had to go look for the paperwork to put the information in.


- Can you tell us more about what you would have to do in preparation for filling out this application?
- [If participant says they would sign in] What method/login would you use to sign in? How often do you sign in to VA.gov?

### Things to watch for:
- [Quotes from participant about any content on the intro page that makes them feel uneasy, confused or not prepared to complete the application.]
- [Comments about time and/or actions to gather information mentioned on intro page.]
- [Does the partipant sign in as a next action or do they say they would complete the application without signing in?]

#### Observer rating of task completion
- [Observer ratings of start application task completion using rating criteria]
- 0 = No part of the task completed, much difficulty
- 1 = Partial completion, much overlooked or task was difficult 
- 2 = Partial completion, some areas were overlooked or task was slightly difficult
- 3 = Most of the task was completed with little difficulty
- 4 = All parts of the task were completed with no difficulty 




## Task: [Step 1: Veteran Information] - 5 minutes
- Could you please complete this section of the form and talk aloud about what you would need to do as you go.
[prompted to the first intro page, without signing in, participants completes]
[clicking something, getting error messages appearing on fields]
> Do I continue to the application?
[Completes birth place, maiden name, birth sex questions quietly]
> Why would you have 3 lines? It has 3 lines for the addresss?
[Getting errors on screen as progressing through form, asking if using Enter key]
[Odd error on email address - does not match pattern, odd characters]


### Things to watch for:
- [Does the participant comment on the first 4 following pages and that they show the same questions with info prefilled if they go the non-sign in route?]
- [If the participant comments on this, is it positive or negative?]

#### Observer rating of task completion
- [Observer ratings of start application task completion using rating criteria]
- 0 = No part of the task completed, much difficulty
- 1 = Partial completion, much overlooked or task was difficult 
- 2 = Partial completion, some areas were overlooked or task was slightly difficult
- 3 = Most of the task was completed with little difficulty
- 4 = All parts of the task were completed with no difficulty 



## Task: [Step 2: VA Benefits] - 3 minutes (skip/select no if time crunched)
- Continue completing the questions in the section of the form.
[Prompted to answer No, Participant says disability rating is higher than 50%]




### Things to watch for:
- [Does the participant understand the questions and content through these sections?]
- [Does the participant comment that the questions are too intrusive?]
- [Does the participant select a disability rating that results in the short form flow?]
- [Does the particpant select an option that results in the VA pension question page?]


## Task: [Step 3: Military Service] - 2 minutes

- Continue completing the application and answer the fields about your military service information.
> Um, I forgot is it one year, is one year less or one eary more.
> It is one day off, from when you get out.
[getting errors on fields]

[reads through military service list, prompted to move on]
> This doesn't look familiar.
> Is that for the PACT act, is that what that is?


### Things to watch for:
- [Does the participant understand the questions and content through these sections?]
- [Does the participant comment that the questions are too intrusive or the VA should have this information?]
- [Does the particpant comment that there is something missing from the list]



## Task: [Step 3: Military Service / Upload Document] - 3 minutes (skip/select no if time crunched)

- Can you please explain the instruction on this page? We won't actually be uploading a file today but walk me through your process if you were to complete this question.
- Can you tell me more about what you would have to do to get this document and complete this task?


> um, I do have a certified copy of my DD214 on my phone. So I would probably would be doing this on my phone to tell you the truth.
> I have a copy, I keep a certified copy on my phone. 




### Things to watch for:
- [Does the participant understand the use of upload file/document?]
- [Does the participant enter a discharge date that is in the future or that was very recent?]

#### Observer rating of task completion
- [Observer ratings of start application task completion using rating criteria]

> 4 = All parts of the task were completed with no difficulty 

## Task: [Step 4: Household Information / Financial Disclosure] - 3 minutes

- Begin completing this section of the health care application. 
- Talk through what what the content means to you and what you would do.
[Quietly goes through first page]
> I guess I would say yes to financial information?
> I would probably put yes
[reasoning]
> If I wasn't over the 50% yeah, if I was just starting out I would probably put in my financial information to get some kind of service from the VA. 
[reads thorugh page, prompted to continue]





### Things to watch for:

- [Does the participant understand the financial disclosure page?]
- [Does the participant open the additional info on qualifying eligibility factors?]
- [Does the participant click yes or no on the financial disclosure page and express any negative sentiment towards this ask?]



#### Observer rating of task completion
- [Observer ratings of start application task completion using rating criteria]
- 0 = No part of the task completed, much difficulty
- 1 = Partial completion, much overlooked or task was difficult 
- 2 = Partial completion, some areas were overlooked or task was slightly difficult
- 3 = Most of the task was completed with little difficulty
- 4 = All parts of the task were completed with no difficulty 




## Task: [Step 4: Household Information / Spouse Information] - 5 minutes
- Proceed with the application with answering the next question. 
- [If selected Married/Separated for Marital Status] Continue completing all the questions about your spouse and please remember to think aloud.  

[answers divorced]


### Things to watch for:
- [Does the participant make any comments about this page happening after the financial disclosure page?]
- [Does the participant comment on or interact with the additional info component - "why we ask this information"?]
- [Does the participant comment on the second spouse page with the two lived with/address questions?]
- [Does the participant comment the question is intrusive or that they would skip and/or answer untruthfully?]



## Task: [Step 4: Household Information / Dependents / Experimental Pattern] - 5 minutes

- For this scenario, we would like you to answer as if you have 2 dependents.
- Please answer the questions on this page and proceed through that scenario. You can use fake information for fields like SSN and I can help prompt you with information if needed. 

[Typing in info in name fields]
[hit enter, field errors resulted on following fields not completed]

> The suffix, he's not a junior, he doesn't have
[Quietly enters in ssn, dob info]

- [Once added the first dependent] Now can you add that second dependent.
[Enters name, clicks enter, getting errors again]
[Answers additional information questions easily]

- [Once both are added] Okay, now let's say you need to make changes to your first dependent - you need to correct their birthdate. Can you please walk me through how you would go about doing that?

> I would hit edit
> And I guess scroll down, and change
(Had to be directed to scroll back down and continue through pages to get to the review screen)

- Can you show me how you could take a dependent off of this application? 
> I guess hit remove.
> I am going to hit yes remove


### Things to watch for:

- [Does the participant need to use the additional info of "Who does VA consider a dependent" to answer the question?]
- [Does the participant struggle with adding a second dependent?]
- [Does the participant pause or are they confused by any of the dependent information questions?]
- [Does the participant easily edit and make changes through the dependent edit flow? Do they comment on wanting to see all their answers on a single screen?]
- [Does the participant comment on the modals when cancel a flow or going to remove a dependent from the application?]



#### Observer rating of task completion
- [Observer ratings of start application task completion using rating criteria]
- 0 = No part of the task completed, much difficulty
- 1 = Partial completion, much overlooked or task was difficult 
- 2 = Partial completion, some areas were overlooked or task was slightly difficult
> 3 = Most of the task was completed with little difficulty
- 4 = All parts of the task were completed with no difficulty 




## Task: [Step 4: Household Information / Income and Deductibles] - 5 minutes

- Complete the questions asked on this page. Please talk aloud about the questions and information presented to you here.
- [Continue clicked by participant and they answered married/separated] Complete your spouse's income information.
- In real life, how long would it take you to gather and make sure you were entering the correct information here?

[opens additional info component for gross income]
> The only thing is, I don't work. I do collect SSDI. (unsure, reasoning for reading add info content) You don't want to make a mistake on these forms.
> Yeah, you want to put in accurate information.
> Just a joke I heard the other day, and I travel a lot, and somebody was saying if one way to do background check go to TSA too, or global entry Uncle Sam has already done the background check
> Think about the background check and what people have been turned down for for TSA, global entry
> We alternate from foreign travel, that is why it is on the back of my mind. 

> Wow, it doesn't include the social security (under other income additional info component)
> Agencies have different criteria, what is a disabled person or a disability

> I would always, say make sure (looking through deductible page)
> You have to be careful (looking in additional information component)
> Yes, it is helpful
> I went too fast (reopens component) okay

### Things to watch for:

- [Does the participant seem confused by any of the content or help text provided?]
- [Does the participant comment that they would not want to provide this information?]
- [Does the participant indicate it would take a significant amount of time and delay the application to answer any of these questions?]


## Task: [Step 5: Insurance Information] - 3 minutes (skip/select no if time crunched)

- Please explain what this section of the form means to you as you work through answering the questions.

[quietly goes through and answers no to all medicare,medicade, insurance questions]


### Things to watch for:
- [Does the participant understand this question or are they confused and need additional context?]
- [Do the medicaid and medicare questions cause pause or confuse the participant?]


## Task: [Step 5: Insurance Information / Facilities] - 2 minutes (skip/select no if time crunched)

- What are your impressions of what this page is asking for and why it is needed for this application?

[Clicks box for Affordable Care Act]
[moderator confirms using scroll and keyboard to go through state select menu]
> This is not in alphabetical order, good gravy.
> Using the up and down arrow (to go through center select menu)
> That looks kind of jumbled
> I figured it was going to be alphabetical order, it is not even by county
> What is the arrangement?
> that's a jumbled mess, I'm sorry
> I think I got it, but still...
> People don't go by clinic they go by Medical Center, in my experience.
> That was confusing
[selected no to first appointment]
> Yeah, I would rather contact them
> I would want to make sure I get a schedule, if they call me I don't know when they would try and contact me. I would rather contact them myself.
> I like to do morning appointments, I don't do Monday appointments. If they are running late in the afternoon, they will make me late to whatever I am doing
> In the afternoon, sometimes they skip lunch and are in a bad mood. Morning, get it over with.

### Things to watch for:
- [How does the participant prefer to search and/or sort facilities?]
- [Does the participant interact with the additional links on the facilities page?]


## Task: [Step 6: Review] - 3 minutes

- Explain what you would do on this page and complete the application.
- Before submitting, let's say you wanted to review what you entered for your dependents and correct some informaiton there. Can you walk me through how you would do that? 

> I would double check the information I put in there, make sure it is accurate
> That is me, don't know about anybody else
> Hit the edit button,
> I didn't hit the state or region, only the town (caught and editted place of birth)
> I don't see Puerto Rico listed. I guess I would put other. 
> that's strange. (not in list or any of the other territories)
> They were born overseas, on a base, probably Germany. Amry brats.
> I had met enough people who were born over seas while their parents were serving and what not.

**Participant questions:**
- On a scale of 1-5 (1 being non very poorly and 5 being very well) - how prepared does this page make you feel to submit this application? Why?
> Um, pretty good. 
> Yes, it would be a 5.

- Is there any reason you wouldn't submit the application at this step?

> If I had anything incomplete. I am assuming I have downloaded all the documents they needed.



### Things to watch for:

- [Does the participant have a positive or negative sentiment about the review page?]
- [Does the participant give any reason for pause or why they wouldn's submit the application?]
- [Does the participant interact with any of the accordions or try and edit any information?]


## Task: [Step 6: Confirmation] - 3 minutes

- What are your thoughts on this page now that you have submitted your application?
> It is pretty easy (scrolls down)
> That is pretty cool, that you could print a copy.
> That you might forget when you applied and what not. It is helpful to have a copy for your own personal records.
> I like the highlighted sections
> Always good to have a hard copy of any application you fill out.
 
- What are your expectations of what is on this page and what would happen next?
> Well, like it has, the highlighted area. How long it will take, get contacted within a week, call.
> Right, at least it was recieved it, somebody look it over.  
- Would you do anything on this page or pause before moving on?
    

### Things to watch for:

- [Does the participant seem unclear on what happens next?]
- [Does the participant feel confident that they know what the next steps in the process are?]
- [Does the participant have positive or negative reaction to the confirmation page?]



## Post-Task Interview - 5 minutes

- [NPS Question]
- How likely are you to recommend this online application to another Veteran? [Scale of 0 - 10]
> I would 10 is the good one? Yeah, 10
> Easy to maneurver
> Other than no Puerto Rico though, have to put other down

- Did any of the questions stand out to you as unnecessary?
> When did become a dependent
> A child, you know what nevermind. Maybe step parents or whatever, nevermind.
> Maybe that is more of a male-orientated thing. THat was upside down I am sorry.
> the income questions, SSI wasn't in there, counted as income

  
- Did anything seem to be missing?
  > Maybe a photo id of the person, since you are doing it online
  > Somebody could find a copy of a dd214, a photo id to double check identity

