# Conversation Guide for [1010 Team, 10-10EZ, Household financial information section usability/UAT]

## P4 
### Tuesday August 22, 2023 at 1pm ET / 10am PT

*Start recording.*

- **I have started recording**. I'd like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record my screen and the audio as we talk today?
- **Are you comfortable if we decide to use a recorded clip from our discussion today to share with other VA partners, if we remove any information that can be used to identify you?**



## Task: [Start Application] - 5 minutes

- For this session today, we are going to work through the scenario that you are interested in applying for VA health care. Please use your own information, except for your social security number. For that number, make one up. You'll be able to submit the application, but it won't be a real application, so it won't be processed by the VA. Also, in this case you won't log in with your VA user account.

- You arrive at [this page](https://staging.va.gov/health-care/apply/application/introduction).
- Please explain what the content on this page means to you and what you would do next.


[Link to staging site of introduction page to the 10-10EZ health care application]


> Um, so... the top part here is if I already got an account, just click it and log in.
> The steps here are very self explanitory, they tell you what you need. What you need and what you will get out of it.


**Participant questions:**
- On a scale of 1-5 (1 being very poorly and 5 being very well) - how prepared does this page make you feel about the application you are about to begin? - Why did you give it that rating?
  > I would say it's a 5
- Can you tell us more about what you would have to do in preparation for filling out this application?
  > Just step 2 here, gather all this information.
  > Make sure, if it is the first time I am looking at it, I am going to have to stop, go get it
  > 
  > Dig it out so I know I got it.
  
- [If participant says they would sign in] What method/login would you use to sign in? How often do you sign in to VA.gov?
[prompted to unauth apply link]

### Things to watch for:
- [Quotes from participant about any content on the intro page that makes them feel uneasy, confused or not prepared to complete the application.]
- [Comments about time and/or actions to gather information mentioned on intro page.]
- [Does the partipant sign in as a next action or do they say they would complete the application without signing in?]


#### Observer rating of task completion
- [Observer ratings of start application task completion using rating criteria]

> 4 = All parts of the task were completed with no difficulty 




## Task: [Step 1: Veteran Information] - 5 minutes
- Could you please complete this section of the form and talk aloud about what you would need to do as you go.

> So far, all of this is very easy.
[place of birth page]
> I haven't found anything that is hard.
> Why do they want my mother's maiden name?
> That shouldn't have any bearing on me, maybe my maiden name.
> I like that question (birth sex)
> What gender were you at birth, I believe how that is worded. I mean I get it, you have to do it now.
[mailing address page]
> Do you want an actual address?
> I used to make up forms, (laughs)
> Let's pick a good state, oops I don't know a zip code there, I guess it doesn't matter.
[contact info page, enters email and both phone numbers]

### Things to watch for:
- [Does the participant comment on the first 4 following pages and that they show the same questions with info prefilled if they go the non-sign in route?]
- [If the participant comments on this, is it positive or negative?]

#### Observer rating of task completion
- [Observer ratings of start application task completion using rating criteria]
- 0 = No part of the task completed, much difficulty
- 1 = Partial completion, much overlooked or task was difficult 
- 2 = Partial completion, some areas were overlooked or task was slightly difficult
- 3 = Most of the task was completed with little difficulty
- 4 = All parts of the task were completed with no difficulty 



## Task: [Step 2: VA Benefits] - 3 minutes (skip/select no if time crunched)
- Continue completing the questions in the section of the form.

[Answers yes to 50% first, directed to answer no]
> I understand why it's split up to 40 and then 50 and higher
> Before, I got my VA rating, I am service connected and over the 50%, if before I got to 50, I had to pay a copay for anything I wasn't service connected for.
> Once I hit 50% everything is paid
> Excluding dental, because I am not 100% and don't have dental service connection.


### Things to watch for:
- [Does the participant understand the questions and content through these sections?]
- [Does the participant comment that the questions are too intrusive?]
- [Does the participant select a disability rating that results in the short form flow?]
- [Does the particpant select an option that results in the VA pension question page?]


## Task: [Step 3: Military Service] - 2 minutes

- Continue completing the application and answer the fields about your military service information.

> last branch of service, wait date started
[Completing branch service page]
[reads through service history list]
> Okay, so none of these apply to me, do you want me to click one just to see?



### Things to watch for:
- [Does the participant understand the questions and content through these sections?]
- [Does the participant comment that the questions are too intrusive or the VA should have this information?]
- [Does the particpant comment that there is something missing from the list]



## Task: [Step 3: Military Service / Upload Document] - 3 minutes (skip/select no if time crunched)

- Can you please explain the instruction on this page? We won't actually be uploading a file today but walk me through your process if you were to complete this question.

> Upload my DD214, and I see here they have the 256, 57 and national guard form 22.
> So this means, I am going to have to have a scanner or a phone that is connected to my computer,
> And once I get it, then I just upload it and should be able to hit continue.
> I will say on that last step, all of the young Vets that are just getting discharged that is not going to be a problem.
> But if you have a Vietnam Vet you is doing this for the first time, that is going to be an issue. They will stop and not go any farther. There are a handful out there that don't do technology.
> That is where the grandkids will have to come over and help them do everything, that is if they live near them.

- Can you tell me more about what you would have to do to get this document and complete this task?




### Things to watch for:
- [Does the participant understand the use of upload file/document?]
- [Does the participant enter a discharge date that is in the future or that was very recent?]

#### Observer rating of task completion
- [Observer ratings of start application task completion using rating criteria]
- 0 = No part of the task completed, much difficulty
- 1 = Partial completion, much overlooked or task was difficult 
- 2 = Partial completion, some areas were overlooked or task was slightly difficult
- 3 = Most of the task was completed with little difficulty
- 4 = All parts of the task were completed with no difficulty 


## Task: [Step 4: Household Information / Financial Disclosure] - 3 minutes

- Begin completing this section of the health care application. 
- Talk through what what the content means to you and what you would do.

> Ok, so you are going to ask me about all my financial information. But the note says you verify wiht the IRS, why do I need to provide it?
> If the VA is going to go to the IRS to verify my income and social security (it doesn't say that but I know they do)
> Why do I need to provide it?
> Disclaimer, I retired 2 years ago as a Veteran's service advocate.
> I can play devils advocate on this real easily
> Do you want me to go ahead and say yes?

> So at this point, I am going to have to make sure I have all my tax information so I can finish the rest of it.
> Everytime I click continue, it doesn't pop me to the top of the screen, that can get a little frustrating.
> 

### Things to watch for:

- [Does the participant understand the financial disclosure page?]
- [Does the participant open the additional info on qualifying eligibility factors?]
- [Does the participant click yes or no on the financial disclosure page and express any negative sentiment towards this ask?]



#### Observer rating of task completion
- [Observer ratings of start application task completion using rating criteria]
- 0 = No part of the task completed, much difficulty
- 1 = Partial completion, much overlooked or task was difficult 
- 2 = Partial completion, some areas were overlooked or task was slightly difficult
- 3 = Most of the task was completed with little difficulty
- 4 = All parts of the task were completed with no difficulty 




## Task: [Step 4: Household Information / Spouse Information] - 5 minutes
- Proceed with the application with answering the next question. 
- [If selected Married/Separated for Marital Status] Continue completing all the questions about your spouse and please remember to think aloud.  

> I am making up a name [answers married for marital status]
> Oh, interesting [date of marriage field]
> All of a sudden it wants to know what date I was married, but I guess that makes sense because I am inputting information for my spouse.
> And again, all of this can be gotten through the IRS/
> It kind of looks like the online tax form information.



### Things to watch for:
- [Does the participant make any comments about this page happening after the financial disclosure page?]
- [Does the participant comment on or interact with the additional info component - "why we ask this information"?]
- [Does the participant comment on the second spouse page with the two lived with/address questions?]
- [Does the participant comment the question is intrusive or that they would skip and/or answer untruthfully?]



## Task: [Step 4: Household Information / Dependents / Experimental Pattern] - 5 minutes

- For this scenario, we would like you to answer as if you have 2 dependents.
- Please answer the questions on this page and proceed through that scenario. You can use fake information for fields like SSN and I can help prompt you with information if needed. 

> Now I have to come up with more names... (laughing)
> Okay that's interesting, when did they become my dependent
> If I say it is my daughter, [opens drop down] so i could have adopted them I guess
> That could throw folks
> what if that one has a yes or no if they were adopted, no I guess there is step child too
> Or maybe in the drop down up here (realationship menu)
> You could put adopted and if those pop up then you can have become dependent
> But you have grandparents how have custody too, that could open up a can of worms
> Living with a disability (reading) Since I made them older than 18, I guess I should say yes


- [Once added the first dependent] Now can you add that second dependent.

> Now I have to come up with another one.
[easily enters in name and makes up social]
> Did I do that right, yes
> okay and no more dependents, right, just two?


- [Once both are added] Okay, now let's say you need to make changes to your first dependent - you need to correct their birthdate. Can you please walk me through how you would go about doing that?

> Sure, it looks like it would be pretty easy to just click edit. Do you want me to go ahead and try that?
> Okay
> So I am going to go ahead and change that to a 9, just to see if it takes it
> Wait what happend, I changed that to a 9
> Oh, so now I have to go through all this too?
> That's okay

- Can you show me how you could take a dependent off of this application? 

> Just click on that remove and that should do it.



### Things to watch for:

- [Does the participant need to use the additional info of "Who does VA consider a dependent" to answer the question?]
- [Does the participant struggle with adding a second dependent?]
- [Does the participant pause or are they confused by any of the dependent information questions?]
- [Does the participant easily edit and make changes through the dependent edit flow? Do they comment on wanting to see all their answers on a single screen?]
- [Does the participant comment on the modals when cancel a flow or going to remove a dependent from the application?]



#### Observer rating of task completion
- [Observer ratings of start application task completion using rating criteria]
- 0 = No part of the task completed, much difficulty
- 1 = Partial completion, much overlooked or task was difficult 
- 2 = Partial completion, some areas were overlooked or task was slightly difficult
- 3 = Most of the task was completed with little difficulty
- 4 = All parts of the task were completed with no difficulty 



## Task: [Step 4: Household Information / Income and Deductibles] - 5 minutes

- Complete the questions asked on this page. Please talk aloud about the questions and information presented to you here.
- [Continue clicked by participant and they answered married/separated] Complete your spouse's income information.

  
> um, gross income.
> okay (enters in info in gross, net and 0 in other field)
[no interaction with additional info components]
[0's for all spouse income areas]

- In real life, how long would it take you to gather and make sure you were entering the correct information here?
> um, for me it wouldn't be hard. I do all of our taxes online, so it is right there.
> But in reality for others, it could take a bit. It would depend on who is filling it out.
> If he is the Veteran and she is paying all the bills. And vice versa.
> But for me, it wouldn't be a problem.
> Now, if my husband was filling this out, he would have to wait until I told him where everything was cause he don't remember.
> Now here, I don't know what a non-reimbursable medical expense is
[opens additional info]
> This is where it could really stump some folks. Nobody keeps reciepts, they just don't.
> I guess if maybe they pay by a debit card or credit card or check they could pull their bank statement to get that information.
> One thing when I would help Vets file for pension, I would tell them ahead of time, go to the doctor and get a print out of all your costs. Go to the pharmacy and get a print out of all your costs.
> For this one I am going to estimate, this is how much I paid out already.
{doesn't comment on year dates)
> And no one died. 

### Things to watch for:

- [Does the participant seem confused by any of the content or help text provided?]
- [Does the participant comment that they would not want to provide this information?]
- [Does the participant indicate it would take a significant amount of time and delay the application to answer any of these questions?]


## Task: [Step 5: Insurance Information] - 3 minutes (skip/select no if time crunched)

- Please explain what this section of the form means to you as you work through answering the questions.

> Normally this wouldn't be a hard question but I don't know if I am elible or not.
[trip up between Medicare and Medicaid, reread)
> No, that is why I am trying to get the VA (insurance question)


### Things to watch for:
- [Does the participant understand this question or are they confused and need additional context?]
- [Do the medicaid and medicare questions cause pause or confuse the participant?]


## Task: [Step 5: Insurance Information / Facilities] - 2 minutes (skip/select no if time crunched)

- What are your impressions of what this page is asking for and why it is needed for this application?
> Okay, I thought that wasn't being enforced (the affordable care act) that you had to have insurance.
> If I didn't have health coverage I would click it. There are some out there if they see that and think it is no longer a thing, they will leave it blank.
> There would be some controversy over this statements. As far as I know, that is rescended.
> You have Veterans out there that do believe consiricy and that could set someone off.
> Where did I say I live, North Carolina.
> This could be a challenge here, what if I don't know where the VA centers are at?
> I happen to know where they are at, well where 2 of them are at, in North Carolina.
[knowledge of previous work]
> That is just from me using them
> When I first started doing it, I had no clue.
> Oh wait, what happens, it opens a new page (facility locator link)
> okay, I can put in the facility and state and find where I need to go. Okay that answered that question.

> It was easy to fill out. If I have insurance I will have the card on me and that would be easy.
> Everyone wants a piece of the pie, want insurance to cover
> VA isn't doing this without funds, need to pay their doctors and nurses and staff


### Things to watch for:
- [How does the participant prefer to search and/or sort facilities?]
- [Does the participant interact with the additional links on the facilities page?]


## Task: [Step 6: Review] - 3 minutes

- Explain what you would do on this page and complete the application.
  > I would be clicking all these little plus signs here
  > Going through it to make sure it is all correct
  > I am still confused about my mother's maiden name
  > Just go through these quickly, don't remember what I typed in

> And it is nice, if I see a mistake all I have to do is click edit in that area and I can pull it back upl.

- Before submitting, let's say you wanted to review what you entered for your dependents and correct some informaiton there. Can you walk me through how you would do that? 

> Okay, so (scrolls to household section) let's see
> Let's say I spelled one of their names wrong and what to go back in
> This is really easy to be able to do it
> Let's just change that
> And it is going to let me change anything from their name forward, that is handy

**Participant questions:**
- On a scale of 1-5 (1 being non very poorly and 5 being very well) - how prepared does this page make you feel to submit this application? Why?
  > Definutly a 5
  > Laid out very well, self explanitory if I made a mistake I can go back and fix it
  > It is very well laid out
- Is there any reason you wouldn't submit the application at this step?
> no, if I was filing for the first time I would definutley select it.


### Things to watch for:

- [Does the participant have a positive or negative sentiment about the review page?]
- [Does the participant give any reason for pause or why they wouldn's submit the application?]
- [Does the participant interact with any of the accordions or try and edit any information?]


## Task: [Step 6: Confirmation] - 3 minutes

- What are your thoughts on this page now that you have submitted your application?
  > So if I don't already have one of these accounts, then I am going to have to get one
> Becuase that is the only way I am going to have to check it, hopefully I would already have one
> Okay, and that right there is helpful, I will say the mail cannot be trusted these days.
> I did notice throughout the applicaiton an email was not asked for, wait yes it was
> An administor email ...



- What are your expectations of what is on this page and what would happen next?    



> no there is a toll free number here I can call if I have questions. As long as it is not the 800 number for benefits and you can't get anyone to answer.
> In the past 2 years I have not tried that number, maybe the corrected that or got enough people hired
> If I am a little computer savvy, I can figure this out. A number to call for whatever issue I may have.

- Would you do anything on this page or pause before moving on?


### Things to watch for:

- [Does the participant seem unclear on what happens next?]
- [Does the participant feel confident that they know what the next steps in the process are?]
- [Does the participant have positive or negative reaction to the confirmation page?]



## Post-Task Interview - 5 minutes

- [NPS Question]
- How likely are you to recommend this online application to another Veteran? [Scale of 0 - 10]
> Definutley a 10, in fact if it's out there I meet a lot of Veterans out there in my life. Tell them go online and see if there is something there.
> Yeah, now I will tell them go online and fill it out, they will let you know.
> I spent almost 20 years not knowing I was eligible for benefits
> When I got off of active duty they did not offer me a TAP class
> My command wasn't that good, they didn't offer any information



- Did any of the questions stand out to you as unnecessary?
  [mentioned mother's maiden name]
  
- Did anything seem to be missing?
> Um, I don't believe so.
> Again, this is just filing for health care, not anything else. Everything has covered, the questions that need asking. 
