# Conversation Guide for [1010 Team, 10-10EZ, Household financial information section usability/UAT]

## P5
### Wednesday, August 23, 2023 at 11am ET / 8am PT


*Start recording.*

- **I have started recording**. I'd like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record my screen and the audio as we talk today?
- **Are you comfortable if we decide to use a recorded clip from our discussion today to share with other VA partners, if we remove any information that can be used to identify you?**



## Task: [Start Application] - 5 minutes

- For this session today, we are going to work through the scenario that you are interested in applying for VA health care. Please use your own information, except for your social security number. For that number, make one up. You'll be able to submit the application, but it won't be a real application, so it won't be processed by the VA. Also, in this case you won't log in with your VA user account.

[reads headlines outloud and button sign in to start application]


- You arrive at [this page](https://staging.va.gov/health-care/apply/application/introduction). Please explain what the content on this page means to you and what you would do next.





**Participant questions:**
- On a scale of 1-5 (1 being very poorly and 5 being very well) - how prepared does this page make you feel about the application you are about to begin? - Why did you give it that rating?

> 1, oh the opposite. 5
> Easy to read and find what you are looking for.

- Can you tell us more about what you would have to do in preparation for filling out this application?
> I would start reading like I did, sign in to check appliction and if not there is another line there to sign in to start application.
[directed to find link without signing in]

- [If participant says they would sign in] What method/login would you use to sign in? How often do you sign in to VA.gov?



### Things to watch for:
- [Quotes from participant about any content on the intro page that makes them feel uneasy, confused or not prepared to complete the application.]
- [Comments about time and/or actions to gather information mentioned on intro page.]
- [Does the partipant sign in as a next action or do they say they would complete the application without signing in?]

#### Observer rating of task completion
- [Observer ratings of start application task completion using rating criteria]
> 3 = Most of the task was completed with little difficulty




## Task: [Step 1: Veteran Information] - 5 minutes
- Could you please complete this section of the form and talk aloud about what you would need to do as you go.

> This is some information to get started, basic info more or less (reads out fields and button text)
[completes fields]
[uses autofill  setup on computer for place of birth]
[quietly completes form]
[autofills address]
[auto fills email and phone, types in mobile phone number]
[has to correct phone auto filled, looks like it added a 1 at the beginning]


### Things to watch for:
- [Does the participant comment on the first 4 following pages and that they show the same questions with info prefilled if they go the non-sign in route?]
- [If the participant comments on this, is it positive or negative?]

#### Observer rating of task completion
- [Observer ratings of start application task completion using rating criteria]
> 4 = All parts of the task were completed with no difficulty 



## Task: [Step 2: VA Benefits] - 3 minutes (skip/select no if time crunched)
- Continue completing the questions in the section of the form.

> Scans and reads through the page
[Has to be redirect to answer No and not 50% service connected]



## Task: [Step 3: Military Service] - 2 minutes

- Continue completing the application and answer the fields about your military service information.

[quietly completes service information and fields manually]


## Task: [Step 3: Military Service / Upload Document] - 3 minutes (skip/select no if time crunched)

- Can you please explain the instruction on this page? We won't actually be uploading a file today but walk me through your process if you were to complete this question.
- Can you tell me more about what you would have to do to get this document and complete this task?

> continue
> Oh you want me to explain this page?
> Upload your discharge papers,
[reads paragraph word for word]
> If I read what i just read, I would do exactly what it says.
> The security on this thing, you are scanning it and uploading it where?
> I would scan it to my computer

#### Observer rating of task completion
- [Observer ratings of start application task completion using rating criteria]
> 3 = Most of the task was completed with little difficulty


## Task: [Step 4: Household Information / Financial Disclosure] - 3 minutes

- Begin completing this section of the health care application. 
- Talk through what what the content means to you and what you would do.


[mumbles headlines as skimming intro financial page page]
[answers no to sharing household financial information]

> (why no) Cause what do they need my finance information for to apply for something?
[redirected to answer yes]
[reads bold headlines of Financial info you will need page]


#### Observer rating of task completion
- [Observer ratings of start application task completion using rating criteria]
> 0 = No part of the task completed, much difficulty


## Task: [Step 4: Household Information / Spouse Information] - 5 minutes
- Proceed with the application with answering the next question. 
- [If selected Married/Separated for Marital Status] Continue completing all the questions about your spouse and please remember to think aloud.  

[Completes spouse information page quietly]



## Task: [Step 4: Household Information / Dependents / Experimental Pattern] - 5 minutes

- For this scenario, we would like you to answer as if you have 2 dependents.

[continues quietly completing the dependent page, prefilling some information]
[easily gets to review dependents page]

- Please answer the questions on this page and proceed through that scenario. You can use fake information for fields like SSN and I can help prompt you with information if needed. 
- [Once added the first dependent] Now can you add that second dependent.

[quietly adds second dependent, gets a little tripped up on autofill / making up info]
[answers yes to income for second dependent]


- [Once both are added] Okay, now let's say you need to make changes to your first dependent - you need to correct their birthdate. Can you please walk me through how you would go about doing that?


- Can you show me how you could take a dependent off of this application? 



#### Observer rating of task completion
- [Observer ratings of start application task completion using rating criteria]

> 3 = Most of the task was completed with little difficulty



## Task: [Step 4: Household Information / Income and Deductibles] - 5 minutes

- Complete the questions asked on this page. Please talk aloud about the questions and information presented to you here.
- [Continue clicked by participant and they answered married/separated] Complete your spouse's income information.

- In real life, how long would it take you to gather and make sure you were entering the correct information here?

> just like i am doing it now, just real numbers
> I would have them handy (income info)
> [enters in "none" initially for a field not 0]
[enters in fake numbers, said he would not add income in real life, stated would have real numbers easy to get to]

[pauses for a minute on the deductible page, non reimbursable medical expenses, does not open additional info component]


## Task: [Step 5: Insurance Information] - 3 minutes (skip/select no if time crunched)

- Please explain what this section of the form means to you as you work through answering the questions.

[Ansers yes to all: medicaid and medicare, gets to Part A effective date page, wand error on claim number]
[Old conditional pattern for adding private insurance information]




## Task: [Step 5: Insurance Information / Facilities] - 2 minutes (skip/select no if time crunched)

- What are your impressions of what this page is asking for and why it is needed for this application?

[pauses on affordable care act check box, does not check]
[quietly completes state and center fields]
[yes, to contact on first appointment] 
> want them to initiate that, and a reminder


## Task: [Step 6: Review] - 3 minutes

- Explain what you would do on this page and complete the application.
- Before submitting, let's say you wanted to review what you entered for your dependents and correct some informaiton there. Can you walk me through how you would do that? 


> this page here (reads outloud, header]
> Appling for which VA health care you want
opens VA benefits drop down
> Why does it have fill in No automatically right there
[Explains that this is the review page]
> currently recieved pension, yes or no, dates of service make sure everything is right, so and so forth
[directed to scroll to household section to delete dependent]
> Just edit it right here
> there is a lot of information
[misses task to remove a dependent]
[doesn't seem to connect sections to the form he just completed to what is on the review page]
[Once at dependents section of review page was easily able to remove]
> It's easy, just take your time to go through it


**Participant questions:**
- On a scale of 1-5 (1 being non very poorly and 5 being very well) - how prepared does this page make you feel to submit this application? Why?

- Is there any reason you wouldn't submit the application at this step?
> No not really


## Task: [Step 6: Confirmation] - 3 minutes

- What are your thoughts on this page now that you have submitted your application?
- What are your expectations of what is on this page and what would happen next?
- Would you do anything on this page or pause before moving on?
    
> It is good they tell you your application has been submitted
> It lets you print out a copy, that is good
> Nope that's it

## Post-Task Interview - 5 minutes

- [NPS Question]
- How likely are you to recommend this online application to another Veteran? [Scale of 0 - 10]
> 10
> Simple easy fast straigtforward

- Did any of the questions stand out to you as unnecessary?
> no, everything is necessary and covers everything


- Did anything seem to be missing?
> no
