products/disability/526ez/product/feature-briefs/timely-and-truthful.md, before:

# Timely and Truthful Information and Tracking

## Purpose
The purpose of this document is to describe and align development teams and stakeholders on what will be delivered and why we need this now. It is a living document which serves as the source of truth and a communication tool for keeping stakeholders informed about the progress.

## Problem or Opportunity
Through recent Veteran shadowing research and discovery, we learned that **Veterans lack timely and truthful information and tracking about their claim.**

Once a Veteran hits “submit,” the messaging they receive  does not reflect the true status of a claim, setting false expectations for Veterans on the timeline for their claims processing. Similarly, after leaving the confirmation page, Veterans have nowhere on VA.gov to follow up on a submission until it appears in Claim Status Tool. This creates a communication gap— up to multiple days for some Veterans. 

Veterans told us that they want a record that shows they completed and submitted an application– in part because they do not trust VA. However, only Veterans on the happy path receive brief claim summaries and Claim IDs they can use to follow up on their claim. The Veterans most in need of help due to failure do not receive a “receipt” or usable reference number they can use to call VBA or the Contact Center. 

## Proposed Solution
We're driven by the goal of providing Veterans timely and truthful information about their claim after the claim is submitted. We'll do this throughout the post-submission journey at the touchpoints that make the most sense for the Veteran. We'll leverage our research to inform user interface, copy, and communication changes to display and deliver information to the Veteran. As we continue to ideate, prototype, and test the solution, the list below may change.

We will: **EHD:This is a comprehensive delivery list-- I could see us breaking it into subcategories Timely Truthful Information / Tracking to structure the data more. Will leave it up to you.**
- Improve the language and model we use to communicate submission status to Veterans across the touchpoints in scope
- Provide the Veteran truthful communication on submission status, even if that means a submission job has failed
- Notify Veterans of delays in submitting their claim 
- Set reasonable expectations on how long it takes for a claim to be submitted/processed
- Set Veteran expectations for what happens after they submit their claim 
- Send the Veteran email confirmation of their claim immediately after it's submitted
- Send the Veteran an email once the claim is received    
- Provide the Veteran accurate and basic claim details at the time of submission
- Provide the Veteran a more detailed claim overview (e.g. evidence document list)
- Provide the Veteran a pdf of their full claim
- Design the submission experience so Veterans encounter consistent language/concepts about submission throughout VA.gov (eg new designs from MyVA, CST)
- Use MyVA and Claims Status Tool (CST) to view pending claims status
- When Veterans don't have a Claim ID, provide them a human-centered reference number they can use to get their claims status

- **EHD proposal: Remove this. VBA isn't doing anything we would share out until submission is complete** Inosfar as Veterans find it valuable, help Veterans understand exactly what the VBA is doing while the claim is being submitted
  
## Success
We'll know we're successful when: 
- Ensure the current status of a claim is always available to Veterans
- The timeline for claim submission is set truthfully for the Veteran
- Make tracking a claim online something Veterans feel comfortable doing
**EHD: Let's talk about what it would mean to measure this before we commit to it** Make calling the Contact Center for claims status only something Veterans do when they want information that isn't available to them online 

## In Scope
- Revised "submission model" including changes to language, status types
- Creation of new emails sent at specific times during submission
- Improved human-centered reference number for Veterans who don't receive a Claim ID
- A more detailed claim summary for Veterans to keep for their record
- Changes to UI
- Revised content in UI and email

## Out of Scope
- Changes to MyVA
- Changes to CST
- Changes with how 526 and ancillary forms are processed after a sucessfull submission

## Risks & Challenges
- MyVA is managed by another team, and we have no ability to change the way this works today
- CST is managed by another team, and we have no ability to change the way this works today
- The EVSS to Lighthouse migration is underway. This work is dependent on the sucessfull migration to be completed.
- Bugs and issues that arise from the migration may be unexpected errors that must be resolved. We may or may not have control over the timing, design, and quality of these fixes

## Plan
All user stories are contained in this [Epic](https://app.zenhub.com/workspaces/disability-experience-63dbdb0a401c4400119d3a44/issues/gh/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/82076), we're tracking in Zenhub.

Commit message:

added "recommended changes to my va and claim status tool" as in scope

products/disability/526ez/product/feature-briefs/timely-and-truthful.md, after:

# Timely and Truthful Information and Tracking

## Purpose
The purpose of this document is to describe and align development teams and stakeholders on what will be delivered and why we need this now. It is a living document which serves as the source of truth and a communication tool for keeping stakeholders informed about the progress.

## Problem or Opportunity
Through recent Veteran shadowing research and discovery, we learned that **Veterans lack timely and truthful information and tracking about their claim.**

Once a Veteran hits “submit,” the messaging they receive  does not reflect the true status of a claim, setting false expectations for Veterans on the timeline for their claims processing. Similarly, after leaving the confirmation page, Veterans have nowhere on VA.gov to follow up on a submission until it appears in Claim Status Tool. This creates a communication gap— up to multiple days for some Veterans. 

Veterans told us that they want a record that shows they completed and submitted an application– in part because they do not trust VA. However, only Veterans on the happy path receive brief claim summaries and Claim IDs they can use to follow up on their claim. The Veterans most in need of help due to failure do not receive a “receipt” or usable reference number they can use to call VBA or the Contact Center. 

## Proposed Solution
We're driven by the goal of providing Veterans timely and truthful information about their claim after the claim is submitted. We'll do this throughout the post-submission journey at the touchpoints that make the most sense for the Veteran. We'll leverage our research to inform user interface, copy, and communication changes to display and deliver information to the Veteran. As we continue to ideate, prototype, and test the solution, the list below may change.

We will: **EHD:This is a comprehensive delivery list-- I could see us breaking it into subcategories Timely Truthful Information / Tracking to structure the data more. Will leave it up to you.**
- Improve the language and model we use to communicate submission status to Veterans across the touchpoints in scope
- Provide the Veteran truthful communication on submission status, even if that means a submission job has failed
- Notify Veterans of delays in submitting their claim 
- Set reasonable expectations on how long it takes for a claim to be submitted/processed
- Set Veteran expectations for what happens after they submit their claim 
- Send the Veteran email confirmation of their claim immediately after it's submitted
- Send the Veteran an email once the claim is received    
- Provide the Veteran accurate and basic claim details at the time of submission
- Provide the Veteran a more detailed claim overview (e.g. evidence document list)
- Provide the Veteran a pdf of their full claim
- Design the submission experience so Veterans encounter consistent language/concepts about submission throughout VA.gov (eg new designs from MyVA, CST)
- Use MyVA and Claims Status Tool (CST) to view pending claims status
- When Veterans don't have a Claim ID, provide them a human-centered reference number they can use to get their claims status

- **EHD proposal: Remove this. VBA isn't doing anything we would share out until submission is complete** Inosfar as Veterans find it valuable, help Veterans understand exactly what the VBA is doing while the claim is being submitted
  
## Success
We'll know we're successful when: 
- Ensure the current status of a claim is always available to Veterans
- The timeline for claim submission is set truthfully for the Veteran
- Make tracking a claim online something Veterans feel comfortable doing
**EHD: Let's talk about what it would mean to measure this before we commit to it** Make calling the Contact Center for claims status only something Veterans do when they want information that isn't available to them online 

## In Scope
- Revised "submission model" including changes to language, status types
- Creation of new emails sent at specific times during submission
- Improved human-centered reference number for Veterans who don't receive a Claim ID
- A more detailed claim summary for Veterans to keep for their record
- Changes to UI
- Revised content in UI and email
- Recommended changes to My VA, if needed to ensure consistency
- Recommended changes to Claim Status Tool, if needed to ensure consistency

## Out of Scope
- Changes to MyVA
- Changes to CST
- Changes with how 526 and ancillary forms are processed after a sucessfull submission

## Risks & Challenges
- MyVA is managed by another team, and we have no ability to change the way this works today
- CST is managed by another team, and we have no ability to change the way this works today
- The EVSS to Lighthouse migration is underway. This work is dependent on the sucessfull migration to be completed.
- Bugs and issues that arise from the migration may be unexpected errors that must be resolved. We may or may not have control over the timing, design, and quality of these fixes

## Plan
All user stories are contained in this [Epic](https://app.zenhub.com/workspaces/disability-experience-63dbdb0a401c4400119d3a44/issues/gh/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/82076), we're tracking in Zenhub.
