# My HealtheVet - Helpful terminology
- _a11y_ - An abbreviation for accessibility coined by The A11y Project.  The number "11" represents the eleven letters between the first letter, a, and the last letter, y in the word "accessibility".
- _CAG_ - Citrix Access Gateway - Application used to access to the VA virtual desktop using your PIV card (or PIV exception before your card has been issued).
- _CPRS_ - Computerized Patient Record System - The clinician-facing view of the VistA electronic health record system described further down this list.
- _Cerner_ - Often used to refer to Oracle Cerner's electronic health care product (EHR) that runs on their Millennium platform.  This system started being rolled out to VA healthcare facilities in 2018, was temporarily halted after five facilities due to issues with the software.  The rollout is anticipated to resume in June 2023. 
- _FHIR_ (pronounced "fire") - Fast Healthcare Interoperability Resources is a standard defines how healthcare information can be exchanged between different computer systems regardless of how it is stored in those systems.  We use this standard in the APIs that transmit data from Oracle Health to the My HealtheVet user interface.
- _Memo_ - in the context of My HealtheVet on VA.gov, "the memo" refers to [the memorandum](https://dsva.slack.com/files/U772MC9BQ/F049D5Q3WG2/depsec_signed_views___8149650.pdf) signed by Donald Remy, Deputy Secretary of the VA on 11/2/2022, officially marking the start of the two years to complete My HealtheVet on VA.gov integration work.  
- _My HealtheVet_ - often abbreviated MHV - refers to the "classic" My HealtheVet portal, originated in 2003.  Note that there is always a space after "My". It has been in its current iteration for roughly six years, and its core tools are currently being integrated into VA.gov.  
- _My HealtheVet on VA.gov_ - the new MHV experience on VA.gov.  This initiative has had a few working names that you may run across in older documents, labels in ZenHub, etc -- Digital Health Modernization, Health Modernization Initiative, Health Home, Health Apartment, My Health.
- _OCTO_ - Department of Veterans Affairs Office of the Chief Technology Officer
- _OCC_ - VHA's Office of Connected Care, which is focused on designing and delivering digital systems that seamlessly connect Veterans to their health care teams and their health information.
- _PAMPI_ - Health data that refers to Problems, Allergies, Medications, Procedures and Immunizations.
- _PGHD_ - Patient-Generated Health Data - health data that is generated by the patient, such as blood pressure, blood sugar, and data generated by personal health devices such as Apple Health.  This data is now managed by Share My Health Data.
- _PHR_ - Patient Health Record - often used to refer to an API used to retrieve data stored in VisTA
- _SCDF_ Spring Cloud Data Flow  - the new architecture being implmented on My HealtheVet on VA.gov and medical information in the VA Health and Benefits mobile app, also referred to as VAHB.
- _SEI_ - Self-entered infomation - Health information that patients could enter on My HealtheVet Classic prior to June 2025.   This data can be downloaded from the Medical Records section of My HealtheVet on VA.gov, but the ability to add or edit this data was deprecated.
- _VAHB_ - VA Health and Benefits, refers to the native mobile applications (iOS and Android) that provides Veterans access to their health and benefits information.   It was previously referred to as the flagship mobile app.
- _VistA_ - The Veterans Health Information Systems and Technology Architecture, one of the first electronic health record (EHR) systems in the country, and one of the only open source EHRs.  There are 147 different installations for each of the VA medical centers (VISN).  VistA is in the process of being replaced by Oracle Health.
- _WTF bot_ - A bot in the DSVA Slack workspace that can be used to look up the meaning of acronyms.  Enter the command `/WTF` followed by the abbreviation in question.
