# Learn more - P1 
## Intro - 5 minutes

**Moderator:** Thanks for joining us today! And giving us your time to give us your feedback on va.gov. My name is Emily and I also have some colleagues on the line observing and taking notes. Today we're going to talk about a couple of different ways someone can “learn more” experience. We’re going to evaluate a couple of different ways to do that. 

Before we start, a few things I want to mention. This entire session should take about 1 hour.I want to be sure not to keep you much longer, so I may occasionally prompt you with the next question or topic.
In this session, we want to hear your honest opinions. We are not testing your ability. We just want to improve these tools to better meet Veteran's needs. I will not be offended by any opinions you express, and I welcome your feedback.

**Participant:** Okay 

**Moderator:** Also, any opinions and personal information that you share today will not be tied to your Veteran record. We want to design the VA.gov experience for you and everything that you share today will help us to do that.

**Participant:** Okay

**Moderator:** If for any reason and at any time you want to stop the session, please let me know. You will not be penalized in any way if we need to stop.

Are you comfortable if I record your screen and audio as we talk today? We use the recordings to confirm that we have captured your opinions and experiences accurately.

**Participant:** Yes, that’s fine. 

**Moderator:** When I start the recording, I’ll confirm again once we get started. 

I’m going to start recording now, can you confirm that it’s ok we record the session today?

**Participant:** I can confirm

.

## Checklist
**Moderator:**  Are you using a computer or mobile phone during our session toda

**Participant:** Computer

 **Moderator:**  Mac or Windows? 

**Participant:** Mac

**Moderator:**  What browser?

**Participant:** Safari


**Moderator:**  Do you use a screenreader?

**Participant:** No, should I be getting a video today?

**Moderator:** No, I will be asking you to share your screen on your computer 

## Share your screen
**Moderator:** Do you have that link pulled up in your browser?

**Participant:** I do

**Moderator:** In zoom, we have a green button in the middle that says share. If you click that, it will ask you to confirm, you can show full browser 

*shares screen*
There we go, perfect

I can see your screen now, that’s excellent. We can go ahead and start taking a look at this. 


## Warm Up Questions - 5-10 minutes

**Moderator:** Can you tell me a little bit about yourself? You mentioned you live in Plymouth, but what do you do for work or fun?

**Participant:**  I'm retired. I volunteer work with disabled veterans, help people file claims. I’m involved in sports activities. My son plays. It’s fun 

*Moderator:**Do you do that volunteer work in Plymouth

**Participant:** Yes, at Disabled American Veterans 

**Moderator:** Have you ever used VA services online? (Va.gov, ebenefits, My HealtheVet, Tricare?)

**Participant:**  Yes, because I have a [PHI]. I do a lot of video conferencing with doctors. I do all my medication online. I do a lot if through My HealtheVet vs. va.gov. It seems easier. I don’t know if it’s because I’ve used it a lot longer. 

**Moderator:** We’re curious if people have interacted with va.gov yet, because there’s a lot of different ways people can access through va.gov.
Today, we are going to be asking for your feedback about how to get more information about a question or topic when filling out a form online. Has there ever been a time when you needed some extra details about a question on an online form?

**Participant:**  Yes, I’m in the midst of pushing me to get caretaker benefits. I started the process of filling out forms. Became confusing and difficult and not sure if that's what you're looking for. Difficult to maintain. Asked a lot of questions and different people’s names and it’s not clear who the benefits are for, the veteran themselves or the caregiver. The law has changed dramatically and confused on how it’s going to work

**Moderator:** It can be really confusing who to put info about. Whether it’s a family member or a veteran it can be pretty unclear sometimes
What have you done when it comes to questions like that?

**Participant:** I would contact a service officer and seek their assistance




  

## First Task: Test the modal pattern in staging - 10 minutes [only need to test 1 modal]

 **Moderator:** We have a form here for our GI Bill comparison tool. The purpose of this tool is to help Veterans compare costs at colleges and universities they are interested in, so they can estimate how to use their GI Bill benefits.
 First, without making any selections, scan the page and describe what it’s asking you to do.

**Participant:** On each section?

 **Moderator:**  Yes

**Participant:** Veteran. Name. who am I? Veteran. What kind of benefits we’re looking for. I’m just going through that with my daughter. Also recently did vocational rehab and employment. I found with my daughter it’s really helpful. It took an hour, didn’t know how to do it online. It was difficult, because their only office is in Boston. I had some difficulty walking. I know a lot of guys who would love to do it online

**Moderator:** That is good to know because part of what we’re doing is putting a lot of paper forms on va.gov to fill out and there’s less travel involved because going to the office would be a big pain.  Before clicking anything, describe how you would go about getting more information about one of the questions if you needed it? 

**Participant:** Uh let’s see...What do I do? , I’d make contact with an individual at the VA. Define who really is in charge. VA has a system of go here first, then go next here, it’s a cumbersome process. What I find useful for me, the more dropdown menus they have the more detail. 
   
**Moderator:** Is there anywhere on this page you would go to get more information about one of the questions?

**Participant:**  If I were to take classes, I’d go online early. 

**Moderator:** Let’s say you weren’t totally clear on how you would want to take classes, what would you expect to happen with the learn more link here?

**Participant:**  I would expect a pretty simple how to fill out a form, on how to access something online. What I need to get in, if I qualify. I would wanna quickly I know some point of time, they're going to ask me who I am, do I qualify? We have to requalify for everything you do. With online, if there’s a requalification we have, not requalify but eligibleI would like “online early”. What benefits are you eligible for ...

**Moderator:** What I'll ask you to do next is click on learn more and take a look at the content here and tell me if  Is this what you expected to find?

**Participant:**  * Reads content in modal* Uh I would expect to find, first question, uh. Am I eligible? Before I went any further. Only because the bill for education has changed in so much a couple of years. I’d like to see that first. I think I’m eligible for everything but I’m not sure. Talking monthly allowances and so forth. I think you have extra benefits with a wheelchair. Clear eligibility requirements and what they are. 

**Moderator:** If you were to return back to the form, how would you do that?

**Participant:** *Closes modal*

**Moderator:** Was the information on the box helpful?

**Participant:** Yes

**Moderator:** Why do you think this content is hidden behind this ‘Learn more’ link? 

**Participant:** I think it’s trying to make sure what your interest is. To me, it’s so early in the app process. I feel like most veterans won’t be on this section if benefits are available. 

**Moderator:** That makes sense. Did you find it reasonable to keep in mind the information of that pop up window, once you xed out of it?

**Participant:** Yes, the minimum housing assistance. If you look at the question I’m having at this point I’m gonna do online only, I’m not sure what housing benefits. 

**Moderator:**  So not every question was answered but you got a little bit of helpful information?

**Participant:** I’m not aware if I’m online if I'm going to get a housing stipend for a place to live. I don’t know what there will be for housing benefits

**Moderator:**  That makes sense


## Second Task: Test the accordion pattern in Codepen - 10 minutes

 **Moderator:**  What we’re going to look at next is a prototype of two other ways to get more information while filling out an online form. 
This page doesn’t look like the rest of VA.gov yet, and we are trying things out just to make sure they work correctly. First, without making any selections, scan first question on the page and describe what it’s asking you to do.

**Participant:** I I would definitely, I like the question, “online only”. I’m not sure what online or in person only means? 

 **Moderator:** Having that question in mind, and you wanted more information, if you wanted more info, what would you do?

**Participant:** I would click learn more
   
**Moderator:** What do you expect to happen by doing that?

**Participant:** I find that pretty...I think that’s pretty self explanatory. 

**Moderator:** Is this what you expected to happen when you click learn more

**Participant:** Yeah, I like that. Great. 

     
### Learn more pattern in an option for the answer:

**Moderator:** Next, I’m going to ask you to scan the 2nd question and without making any selections, describe what it’s asking.

**Participant:** Private training is what interests me. Private training for my case would be more beneficial. Hands on work with coding and so forth. 

**Moderator:** What would you click if you wanted to get more info for private training? Does that seem like useful info to help you make a selection?

**Participant:**  *clicks learn more in accordion* I would get an answer like we see here. I think that’s very self explanatory. 
	
**Moderator:** Why do you think this content is hidden behind this ‘Learn more’ link? 

**Participant:** I think uh...there's only certain people that would be interested in that. Bootcamp,  coding, people that would want to find out. Because my case if limited access to outside facilities. I think that to me there are a lot of people. Where mobility is limited. 

**Moderator:** How well were you able to remember what the additional information appeared?

**Participant:** I think it’s very precise and easy to intake. I would need to research more...

**Moderator:** What steps do you take to research more?

**Participant:**  I would definitely select site and learn more. I don’t know if you want me to go forward. If I check private training and I’d have to do additional information on my own? 

**Moderator:** Is that what would you expect ?

**Participant:**  I would expect and like more detail. Like office or a contact person to get more information.

**Moderator:** Yeah, that’s really helpful
 
### Learn more pattern in a tooltip:

**Moderator:** Next, I’m going to ask you to scroll a little farther down the page until you get to a label that says “Tooltip number 1.” Please read the question underneath and without making any selections, and tell me what you think about that learn more link. What do you expect to happen by that learn more link?

**Participant:** 2 things I would ask, if I chose something prior up to those questions, if I clicked learn more, would that be a general tip? 

**Moderator:** Does it seem like they would be related if you had made a previous selection?
Did you try to click the learn more link?

**Participant:** Yup, I got no response from it

**Moderator:** What would you do if they had no response from it?

**Participant:** If there’s a chat session, I would look for someplace where could I get more information

**Moderator:** That makes a lot of sense to look for a chat or somewhere you might need it. Please go to tooltip 2 and that learn more, what would you expect there?

**Participant:** If I can’t do number 1 then I can’t do number 2? I guess it’s just simple asking me, when do I wanna start and when do I want to finish. I really don’t...yup! I don’t know the question, how do I answer that question when what the requirements here are for restrictions? Is it a 2 year program? Do as you can?

**Moderator:**  That makes sense. I could imagine knowing that program dates before you want to start as well. 
