## Intro - 5 minutes

**Moderator:** Thanks for joining us today! My name is Emily and I also have some colleagues on the line observing and taking notes. We’re talking today about how we sometimes need a little more information when filling out the form. Today we’re going to talk about a few different ways we’re going to go through that today.

Before we start, a few things I want to mention:
This entire session should take about 1 hour. I want to be sure not to keep you much longer, so I may occasionally prompt you with the next question or topic.
In this session, we want to hear your honest opinions. We are not testing your ability. We just want to improve these tools to better meet Veteran's needs. I will not be offended by any opinions you express, and I welcome your feedback.

**Participant:** Okay, that’s refreshing 

**Moderator:** Also, any opinions and personal information that you share today will not be tied to your Veteran record. We want to design the VA.gov experience for you and everything that you share today will help us to do that.

**Participant:** Okay

**Moderator:** If for any reason and at any time you want to stop the session, please let me know. You will not be penalized in any way if we need to stop.

**Participant:** Okay

**Moderator:**  Are you comfortable if I record your screen and audio as we talk today? We use the recordings to confirm that we have captured your opinions accurately.

**Participant:** Sure

*Start recording.*

**Moderator:** Recording now, can you please confirm if we can record today

**Participant:** Yes mam you can record


## Checklist
**Moderator:** Are you using a computer or mobile phone during our session today?

**Participant:** It’s a dell

**Moderator:** Laptop or desktop

**Participant:** desktop

**Moderator:** What browser are you using today?

**Participant:** Internet explorer

**Moderator:** Are you using a screenreader today?

**Participant:** No maam

**Moderator:** Are you using a screen magnifier today?

**Participant:** No

## Share your screen
**Moderator:**  Okay. I'd like you to open a new browser window or tab. Now, we’re going to send you a link in the chat. Starts with staging.va.gov. 
Before we get started, I'd like you to share your screen with me. In Zoom, can you select the Share button?
   
**Participant:** Alright and then it says to select a window operation you want. The screen one or GI bill comparison?

**Moderator:** GI bill comparison

## Warm Up Questions - 5-10 minutes
**Moderator:** Can you tell me a little bit about yourself like about service experience, where they live, their work?

**Participant:** Well I was in the US army from 1969-75 2 years active, 2 years active reserve, I was drafted. I live in Venus, TX now. I taught school for 37 years out of the service. High school science. I’m big into sports, I was originally from Illinois so I'm a big Chicago bulls fan. I would say I collect baseball cards. I work out in the yard a bit, we have an acre.

**Moderator:** I think I’ve driven through Venus, TX  before my family lived in camanche

**Participant:** I know camanche

**Moderator:**  Have you ever used VA services online? (Va.gov, ebenefits, My HealtheVet, Tricare?)

**Participant:** I go into My HealtheVet all the time, refill prescriptions and check appointments

**Moderator:** Can you tell me about your experience?

**Participant:** It works real good except, the prescription set up, I’m not real fond of I had [PHI] A few years ago and I’m taking medication for the rest of my life. 2 weeks ago, I called a number and connected with my nurse and she said I gotta check with a doctor. If a [PHI]  tells you need to take meds for the rest of life, it’s important. My meds haven’t arrived yet, there’s no urgency. That’s kind of one of the things and a few things they do at the VA  themselves that I think they can do better. They don’t wanna listen to us

**Moderator:** I can understand that feeling. We want to talk to veterans on how to make these tools better so thank you so much for sharing

**Participant:** That’s no problem

**Moderator:** Today, we are going to be asking for your feedback about how to get more information about a question or topic when filling out a form online. Has there ever been a time when you needed some extra details about a question on an online form?

**Participant:** Oh yeah! 

**Moderator:** What was that like?

**Participant:** It was kinda, I’m trying to figure something out and it asks you a specific question and you don’t know. You call them and you ask them, and they say I really don’t need to fill out. Then why don’t you have on the form? Why don’t you have a disclaimer for optional? But they don’t! This just happened a few days ago with somebody else (not VA), most of the VA forms I’ve had to fill out they’ve been self explanatory. They’re pretty good about that 

  

## First Task: Test the modal pattern in staging - 10 minutes [only need to test 1 modal]
**Moderator:** We have a form here for our GI Bill comparison tool. . The purpose of this tool is to help Veterans compare costs at colleges and universities they are interested in, so they can estimate how to use their GI Bill benefits.  First, without making any selections, scan the page and describe what it’s asking you to do.

**Participant:**  Okay, I understand one, my veteran status, military status. What GI bill do you wanna use? just putting post 9/11 GI bill, we don’t know what it covers. Oh I see a learn more button here. I was looking at the second one post 9/11 active duty status, doesn’t have to do with me because i was long gone out of the service before 9/11

**Moderator:** How do you expect that info to be displayed?

**Participant:** An explanation in a paragraph might be displayed. 
Click on the page, then click on the back button, just ordinary plain english, explanation what the billing emcompesses. Some people just wanna start their education, they don't need words that astronomically intelligent person would know

*Go ahead and click on learn more link*
*Modal pops up*

**Moderator:**  Is this what you expected to find?

**Participant:** Well...the way the things GI bill you wanna use. This doesn’t take you to that bill. I think you can have another box, saying these are the bills available. I do see for more detailed info, well to visit another page, when you start visiting another page, you get distracted easily. Then it just becomes a hodge podge of information and you forget the initial inquiry.

**Moderator:** How do you usually find your way back?

**Participant:** I go back out and go back in 

**Moderator:** Would you mind showing me how you would go back in?

**Participant:** I would close the x and you did give out with closing the x out. A lot of times as being a science teacher, I look at stuff like that, you don’t have an answer to my initial question, I get an experiment and try to get a result. I gotta do this, do this, trying to get to my hypothesis. To me the hypothesis, with learn more, I gotta find what I gotta do, but I can’t I gotta go to another page, then you go to that page, and it will tell you to click here and click here

**Moderator:** Sounds frustrating. How well were you able to remember what it said in the pop up when you made the selection on the form page?

**Participant:** I can remember what was in there, a variety of GI bills available for what programs you want to use and click more to learn more about it 

**Moderator:** Why do you think this content is hidden behind this ‘Learn more’ link? 

**Participant:** Well I think they want to get you involved in GI bills so they put it here to give you one specific bill to find an option. What I’d like to figure out here is the initial comparison tool page, they’re are 2 up and down arrows, okay there’s more info that ust ch. 13. They’ll take you one's higher than 33 or bills lower than 33. All I gotta do is click on the box to find that specific bill.

**Moderator:**  That makes sense. Ok that’s really really helpful

## Second Task: Test the accordion pattern in Codepen - 10 minutes
**Moderator:** I’m going to share my screen using chrome, and give you my screen using mouse control, it should behave the same, if that doesn’t work 

**Participant:** *fenangle screen and mouse control*

**Moderator:** This is a prototype of a couple of other ways to display more information about a question on the form
Without making any selections, scan first question on the page and describe what it’s asking you to do.

**Participant:** What knda class would you be taking, that’s pretty self explanatory to me, I went to college

**Moderator:** Which one would you prefer out of curiosity?

**Participant:** If it were me, I'd wanna do it in person

**Moderator:** Alright that makes sense. Let’s move on to the second question here, you can skim here, and see if there’s anything her you’d want more info about it

**Participant:** For me it’s a graduate or doctoral degree

**Moderator:**  Let’s say for the purpose of getting your feedback, let's say you want private training or coding bootcamp

**Participant:** There I'd have to click learn more

**Moderator:** What do you expect to happen by clicking learn more?

**Participant:** Then i would expect information about what coding or private bootcamp was

**Moderator:** Did you expect how that info would be displayed?

**Participant:** Probably paragraph or bullets

**Moderator:** Where do you expect those to be?

**Participant:** Right when I click on learn more. Okay this is in the paragraph form, and says it’ll take 2 years to get into the job market with current skill sets. Technical certification coding bootcamp, that does not confer a degree to an accredited skill still doesn’t tell you want a coding bootcamp is. Teaches you computer skills. It can teach you to be a jet mechanic it’s really not that specific.

**Moderator:** What would you do next to dig a little deeper?

**Participant:** I might go into a google search or chrome search for a coding bootcamp to see what they say about it

**Moderator:** How well were you able to remember what it said when the additional information appeared?

**Participant:**  I might go ahead and print it so I can have a hard copy to go back to

**Moderator:** Ok, that makes sense, is it useful to have that information in hand, so that you won’t have to flip between windows? Why do you think this content is hidden behind this ‘Learn more’ link? 

**Participant:**  Again, to get you to look at it, this is my opinion of it, I think people get paid for people to look at the pages for things to be written. My next door neighbor goes on a site, and gets paid an amount to look at this site. The site writer makes money every time they look for this site. I’m not saying VA does this. The more people look at this page, the more money they’re going to make some of this stuff is nonsensical. I had a funny feel, technical to me means auto mechanic but what is a coding bootcamp? Are you doing medical coding? Insurance coding or what? No specific background to it. You don’t even have a degree. 
To me, we’re teaching how to flip hamburgers at mcdonalds 

**Moderator:** For scholarships, what would you do to answer this question?

**Participant:** I’d like to see what scholarships are available. One for hey we’re going to pay through your books, I assume under learn more it’s going to tell you something. It’ll probably tell you what scholarships are, click here to learn more about other scholarships

**Moderator:** Let’s click on the learn more links and see

**Participant:**  Let’s see what it says *reads learn more* well that’s a little bit different than what I anticipated. Then it says to find out more you gotta call the admissions office and they gotta call to see about scholarships. Didn’t answer what you wanted to know. They’re assuming here that you don't have scholarships. Like I said not all scholarships are good for all schools. That could be a little misleading here.

**Moderator:**  How would you say this info impacted your understanding of what's happening here?

**Participant:** Did not impact me at all. I know what a scholarship is and I wanna see what scholarships are available. It says school info, we’re not talking about specific information here. What school could you put in, I see TCU. Here are all the scholarships available at TCU and possibly find an online application for this scholarship. That’s my take on it. 
I wanted to ask you, since there’s a box underneath it that you can type something in, is this where you might type in your scholarship or what?
Now that makes sense now, because you got that in there to type this in there, you got more specific information that can be used. 

**Moderator:**  Does that seem a little bit clearer, like what scholarships do you need to have. 

**Participant:** Scholarships to be received or received scholarships. Now I open this up to receive scholarships now i see this information. 

**Moderator:** Right that’s really good feedback
     

 
### Learn more pattern in a tooltip:
**Moderator:** Next, I’m going to ask you to scroll a little farther down the page until you get to a label that says “Tooltip 1 Please read the question underneath and without making any selections, describe what it’s asking. 

**Participant:** Start date of a program or entrance of the school like september 1 or january 1 when school starts in different semesters, go online set up any time, or a new class that starts online every 2 weeks

**Moderator:** How do you think that information will be displayed?

**Participant:** I would think there’s a date, I would say you put in the name of the school

*Hovers over the tooltip*

I didn't click on it just hovered on it, and it says enter the date of the school. I did not expect that

**Moderator:** Did you expect for something to appear when you hovered over it?

**Participant:** I did not

**Moderator:** Now that you see that this is hovering over it, how do you feel about this display of information?

**Participant:** This is okay, since you gave it a start date and end date. 

**Moderator:** Does it give the same info if you click on it? What do you think happened?

**Participant:** It didn’t do anything, just a gold box round it. *hover appears* Now I see that it appeared

 **Moderator:** Why do you think this content is hidden behind this ‘Learn more’ link? 

**Participant:** You just enter a start date below that. Accidentally hit on that scroll over it. 

 **Moderator:** Let’s go to next one anticipate end date. Now that what you’ve seen so far, what do you think you should do next?

**Participant:** Put in end date *hovers over tooltip and reads* After seeing tooltip 1 I see that this is related to when you plan to finish school

**Moderator:** When you got that box to pop up, did you click or hover over it?

**Participant:** I hovered on it, after tooltip 1 i expect tooltip 2 to behave the same 

**Moderator:** Okay that wraps up the items we wanted to get your feedback on today. Do you have any questions or additional thoughts about the things we evaluated?

**Participant:** No, I think it’s very self explanatory, I just wish I had my college degree before I got drafted. The only thing I wish I used my GI bill to get my masters degree but I didn’t but back then there wasn’t any of this. When I got out the vietnam thing just ended and we were not liked in the US. we got looked down on since the war was not wanted or needed. VA has worked so hard to make lives better for veterans in the past. My talking to you it wouldn’t happen if it wasn’t VA. They gave me an open heart surgery. Even though people criticize it, they do a wonderful job for us that are veterans. 

**Moderator:**  That is really great to hear

**Participant:** You’re very welcome, sorry we couldn’t straighten it out earlier.

## Thank-You - 5 minutes

**Moderator:**  Well we really appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us today. Your feedback is so helpful to us as we continue to work on the site and make sure it really works for Veterans. As a thank you for your participation, we'd like to offer you a $50 thank-you gift.

**Participant:** Oh wow

**Moderator:** Shannon will get in touch to send that. Great, well thank you so much again, and enjoy the rest of your day!

**Participant:** Ok you too now, enjoy your weekend bye bye
