# Learn more P4
Wednesday, November 20, 2019 2:00 pm ET


## Intro - 5 minutes

**Moderator** Thanks for joining us today! My name is Emily and I also have some colleagues on the line observing and taking notes. Today we're going to talk about the current “learn more” experience. Getting a little bit information in order to fill out information online. We’re going to be talking about a couple different ways we display that information

Before we start, a few things I want to mention:

This entire session should take about 1 hour. I want to be sure not to keep you much longer, so I may occasionally prompt you with the next question or topic.

In this session, we want to hear your honest opinions.  We are not testing your ability. We just want to improve these tools to better meet Veteran's needs. I will not be offended by any opinions you express, and I welcome your feedback.
Also, any opinions and personal information that you share today will not be tied to your Veteran record. We want to design the VA.gov experience for you and everything that you share today will help us to do that.
If for any reason and at any time you want to stop the session, please let me know. You will not be penalized in any way if we need to stop.
Are you comfortable if I record your screen and audio as we talk today? We use the recordings to confirm that we have captured your opinions accurately.

**Participant** I don’t have a problem with that

**Moderator** I’m going to record now and ask one more time 

*starts recording*

**Moderator** Will you confirm you are ok with recording the screen and audio

**Participant** I’m okay with that 


## Checklist
**Moderator** Are you using a computer or mobile phone during our session today?

**Participant**Laptop

**Moderator** What type of laptop?

**Participant** ASUS

**Moderator** Are you using a screen magnifier today?

**Participant** Not usually, Firefox has the ability to span text usually but not usually no

**Moderator** Is Firefox the browser you normally used?

**Participant** I’m kinda anti Microsoft I've been in the computer business for many many years 


## Share your screen
**Moderator** I’m going to send you the link via the chat in zoom first. So I just sent that, there’s a toolbar at the bottom of zoom 

**Participant** I see it

**Moderator** Let me know when you have that link up in firefox

**Participant** I use no script so it may take a little longer for things to come up. I’m at the GI Bill comparison tool 


## Warm Up Questions - 5-10 minutes
**Moderator:**  Can you tell me a little bit about yourself? Your service experience, where you live, your work?

**Participant:** Okay, I was US army RA Vietnam, I’m currently 100% disabled due to [PII], [PHI} am currently retired. I am 73, I had 2 years at the citadel, had some problems getting a contract. Came back after Vietnam, graduated in physics, worked as a react supervisor, picked up MBA in physics. Went to Hampford, worked on reprocessing plant, did a short stint as a consultant, went with international atomic agency 5 years and 3 months, came back went to work at naval shipyard in Charleston, got bored and became a stock broker. Did that for approximately 18 years and then chronic fatigue set in and all the medical problems with agent orange, after 2006 I wasn’t able to work anymore. Basically very involved with civil air patrol as an air communicator. I’m a net manager for Carolina wing and all the federal  HF nets. High frequency radio nets. The air force came to us and asked us to put up demonstration which we did and asked us as volunteers to take up the federal government HF network. Otherwise I spend most of my time on the computer or work with veteran organizations

**Moderator:** Are you still Charleston?

**Participant:** No we’re in Florence. As I’d like to say my wife drove me all over the world. I am originally a Kentuckian by birth, but I grew up in the air force

**Moderator:**  Have you ever used VA services online? (Va.gov, ebenefits, My HealtheVet, Tricare?)

**Participant:** All the time

**Moderator:** Which ones do you use?

**Participant:** My HealtheVet extensively. Primarily prescriptions and appointment management and secure messaging. I find that's the easiest way to get to the providers. Phone messaging is a disaster

**Moderator:** So you’ve had more success with secure messaging?

**Participant:**  Yes, they have decreed to not use voicemail. It rings forever and you get a message. I find it’s easier to get a secure message and ask them to call me

**Moderator:** Do you use any other services like va.gov or ebenefts?

**Participant:** Not really I am registered in ebenefits. I've been playing with computers since 1964. I imagine most people aren’t like people my age.

**Moderator:** What are some websites you like to visit?

**Participant:** Anything or everything. I spend a lot of time on yahoo just clicking around. I get most of my news according to the internet. My homepage is pretty much yahoo. I mean ya know basically any questions I have I go online and answer it. All my reading has transitioned to kindle. I use to keep the local library hopping but now I just pull things up online.

**Moderator:** I’m looking forward to getting your feedback on these interactions. Today, we are going to be asking for your feedback about how to get more information about a question or topic when filling out a form online. 

**Participant:** yes
  

## First Task: Test the modal pattern in staging - 10 minutes [only need to test 1 modal]

**Moderator:** We have a form here for our GI Bill comparison tool, I’m going to be asking you about how to learn more about a form online. Has there ever been time, you wanted to learn more about a question online?

**Participant:** Recently my wife and I are wading through VA trying to find her dental insurance. So far we’ve been unsuccessful. I got a book I got the other day to look at. I talked to champ.va. They say you got medicare, you don’t have to get champ.va but then medicare says you have to have a champva member

**Moderator:** Is usually getting a phone number the way you seek out that info?

**Participant:** Yeah if i can find someone online to know what they're talking bout Let me add a comment, I added a few years of writing nuclear and form design. 

**Moderator:** That’s a lot of what we’re doing getting paper to online forms. Well please bring whatever comes to mind from all your deep experience, we’d love to hear and incorporate that. 

**Participant:** I hold a masters in civil air and masters in business

**Moderator:** Well we really appreciate your time today

**Participant:**  hey , it’s either you or the impeachment hearings

**Moderator:** Those are pretty exciting too

**Participant:** No they’re not, I equivocate it to a bunch of blind men searching for the light switch 

**Moderator:**  The GI bill comparison tool is to help Veterans compare costs at colleges and universities they are interested in, so they can estimate how to use their GI Bill benefits.First, without making any selections, scan the page and describe what it’s asking you to do.

**Participant:** Yeah im not really familiar with a lot of these terms in the pulldown particularly on post 9/11 duty status because obviously it doesn't apply to me This has changed so much for when I went through the GI bill because mine was under the original GI bill. But all in all it seems fairly straight forward. I suggest under cumulative post. You might want to add a little pulldown or pop up that has extra information. I assume current veterans have no problem understanding these terms, other than the bottom 2 i’m not sure what they mean at all

**Moderator:**  How would you go about getting more information about one of the questions if you needed it? 

**Participant:** I see you gotta learn more let me pop up that
	* Modal pops up*

**Moderator:** Is this what you expected to find?

*interrupted by a radio*

**Participant:** *reads modal* That doesn’t say...it’s not really helpful let’s say. Again most of Vietnam era and later guys think that their GI bill is expired but we know that’s not the case anymore, I guess what they did was the post 9/11 not the pre 9/11, you probably need a link into educational benefits there

**Moderator:** What was the stuff in you expected to find?

**Participant:** I’d put a link in there and let them deal with it as it is. You can’t put everything in one page, it don’t work that way. It’s not applicable to me so I dismissed it. Well what about pre 9/11 service, so I’d throw in another sentence in there with that link

**Moderator:** Why'd you think content was hidden behind learn more?

**Participant:** You assume people that'd be on this page would be post 9/11, either that tie the cumulative 9/11…*reads dropdown*…you don’t have anything about pre 9/11, and which GI benefits you want. 

*questions change based ons selection*

So that’s tied together if I go to another benefits then the pulldown below changed and it’s tied together

**Moderator:** Was that something you expected to happen

**Participant:** I don’t know, I’m sitting here playing with it. Well you don't know what it's going to do if you don't play with it. I’ve always been the go to guy that all the secretaries will go to and be “how do I do this”
Let me play with military status here. *goes through drop-downs*
Having them all tied together where the options change is pretty good



## Second Task: Test the accordion pattern in Codepen pattern in Codepen - 10 minutes


**Moderator:** What we’re going to look at next is a prototype of two other ways to get more information while filling out an online form.  This page doesn’t look like the rest of VA.gov yet

### Learn more pattern in the question:
**Moderator:**  First, without making any selections, scan first question on the page and describe what it’s asking you to do. Before clicking anything, describe how would you go about getting more information about this question if you needed it? 

**Participant:** Okay well first thing obviously, I’d click on learn more

**Moderator:** What would expect to happen by clicking it?

**Participant:** There’s supposed to be a pull down. No scripts is blocking it * Go ahead and select it.* *Accordion opens*

*reads learn more* good to know

**Moderator:** How do you compare this to the pop up you saw earlier?

**Participant:** I think it’s interesting to know because obviously the housing allowance is a major factor

**Moderator:** Do you find that one version then it’s displayed than the other?

**Participant:** People tend to initially briefly scan something like that, and see if it applies to them. My first reaction was that it wasn’t relevant to me. I didn't read it at all because it was post 9/11 and I wasn’t post 9/11. 

      
### Learn more pattern in an option for the answer:

**Participant:** *scans 2nd question* *clicks private training like coding bootcamps* 
 *Go ahead and select it.*
* Accordion opens* *reads*

**Moderator:** How do you feel about the ways that those display, would it impact the programs you’d select?

**Participant:** Yeah sure, I have a little bit of a bias because I have experience with electronic forms. Someone rummaging in a library logged into va.com. May realize what learn more might needs but you cant take them to grammar school

**Moderator:** Why do you think this content is hidden behind the learn more section?

**Participant:** I see why this would be because if this isn’t relevant to you. I think it might be important to display than put it behind a learn more. Most people would assume what undergraduate or graduate and vocational school is…


### Learn more pattern in a tooltip:
**Moderator:** We’d love to get your opinion on tooltip 1 what would you expect to happen here?

**Participant:** *hovers tooltips* Hm pop up isn't working, just seeing if anything is hidden. In that case you get a rollover. 

**Moderator:** Why would you put that behind a learn more button?

**Participant:** That’s what I'm curious about. We’re not trying to impress a professor somewhere we’re trying to communicate with someone with a high school education
 

**Moderator:** Okay that wraps up the items we wanted to get your feedback on today. Do you have any questions or additional thoughts about the things we evaluated? 
**Participant:** I think what you’re doing is laudable. Shipyard people were getting a lot of problems with things that they’re presented with. I went out to the field and did the job that I was writing the procedures for. What you’re doing is great. Talking to the people you have to deal with the paperwork. 

**Moderator:** Sounds like our work is similar in that way

**Participant:** The VA system is rife with. Anyone thats ever been in the procedure business. If you’re going to dictate people do them. I did a lot fo work in the procedure business of ergonomics  I founded the nuclear division on human factors. Then particularly after 3 mile island, I interviewed for the engineer job there. Walked in took one look at the control room, was how in the hell did you ever train anyone to operate this thing? They let the vendors depend on when where...they were scattered all over the control room! 3 people to work 3 different controls. I studied all the action and investigation stuff before they came out. There’s quite a few nuclear reactions that occurred in several facilities 


## Thank-You - 5 minutes

**Moderator:** We really appreciate your feedback

**Participant:** It’s been fun on my end

**Moderator:** Your input is really important. As a thank you for your participation, we'd like to offer you a $50 thank-you gift. Shannon will be in touch. We appreciate your time so much, we hope to do it again sometime 
Great, well thank you so much again, and enjoy the rest of your day!


