# August 21, 2023: Veteran ID cards business line review
*Ask VA Integration Team*

## Agenda

- Introductions
- Review AVA form fields
- Review category and topic names

## Attendees

- Our team: Tyler, Ruchi, Becky, Chante
- VIC team: Melissa Rebstock (VBA), Molly Burlage
- CRM team: Jaime, Maria, Wayne, Shelby
- Not present: Martin Reginald

## Key takeaways

- **VIC overlaps with VHIC and sometimes, identity**.
> "There's no public way or Ask VA [category] for VHIC, so we answer inquiries for VHIC under VIC. We have a canned response or we send them to VHA."

> "Users get hung up on getting credentialed when trying to access VIC and ask for assistance."

- The VIC team **isn't referencing `Tell us the reason you're contacting us?`** to answer inquiries or report metrics.
> "My thought is – if those are the options Veterans can choose from now - I don't see the relevance anymore."

- They **only answer inquiries via email**, so we recommend removing `phone` or `US mail` as options.

- We discussed updating the category name to `Veteran ID cards`, but they pointed out they only answer inquiries related to VIC, not all the other ID cards. The **exception is VHIC.** They will answer (or re-route) VHIC inquiries, but they don't want to encourage this.
> "I'd prefer to keep this just `VIC`. We don't want to encourage inquiries related to all ID cards. But if they do come for VHIC, which they do, we need a way of tracking how many inquiries we get for for VHIC. So we need to keep both topics."

> "Our preference is `Digital Veteran ID Card (VIC)`. But we'd like to discuss this internally."

- We also reviewed all the topic and subtopic names. They **identified a few subtopics which they may consolidate and/or remove**: `Login Error/Records not found` `Ways to apply` `Technical issue` `Unable to submit application` `Unable to upload picture or document`

## Actions

- [ ] VIC team meet with CRM team to discuss potential consolidation to subtopics

## References

- [Category, topic and subtopic proposed names spreadsheet](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1AlUqvwn49ah2gHniTwx3x0afOPliKgURo575e73OH40/edit#gid=1192783561) we reviewed in Google Sheets.
- [Form fields review (with business lines)](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1GIsq9Y6Ap9mBUL49j1Ad7tm1N_nfD0Yoxw9ThtexCMU/edit#gid=329502423) we reviewed in Google Sheets.
- [Complete meeting notes](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1y5nzZ1pDojdTjKEXu3d0eM_jxj72WrSRxaEsZOoiqkA/edit) in Google Docs.
