# Vet Centers 8-17-2020

VC = Vet Center 
OR = outreach 

Jessica gave answers to Leyda’s ?s - 

*RCS* - Readjustment Counseling Svc - the org that runs VCs. Manages 300 VCs. That is our org. We have within RCS: Ops, Data, Comms. 

*NSS* - Nat’l Svc Support, our data team within RCS. 

*Sharepoint* - don’t think we will need to integrate with this.

*Catchment v. Districts* - 
Have 5 district offices. Catchment is the radius a VC covers, where they operate. Vet active duty svc member population they are responsible for providing svcs to. 

*Existing research* - 
Variety of things. ApDiv team conducted 10 foc groups Jan-March. From small to large VCs. Looked at one in urban area, one near active duty base. Have transcripts. Ashley can help get transcripts. 

Also have cust svc feedback forms. Send message within 90d to someone who has used our svcs. 

*VSignals* - will soon be working with VEO to see how we can implement VSignals in VCs. 

*Maintainer* - 
If it were the outreach specialist, what wd that look like? How feasible? Sounds like their goals are aligned with ours - getting the data to be right. 

Jessica - I’ll turn this over to the outreach specialists. 

Bryan - this is the hard part. 300 VCs. Think a lot of ORs wd be comfortable taking on this add’l responsibility. We wd need to walk them thru it, help them get more tech savvy. Having the OR be like a direct contact — maybe we cd look at that. 

Austin - I am on board with that idea but u will get a lot of feedback, it will be a pickle deciding who will do this. It will vary by location. 

Dave C - we are poking at having a scalable product. 

JS - we wd also need to be on board with our districts. 

JS - technically there should be an outreach specialist per VC. Did not catch what she said about mobile. 

Bryan - 82 VCs in District 1. ADDA - Asst Dep District Admin for our District oversees the outreach specialists in our zone. We cd include review of websites in his visits. JS, do ADDA have that outreach responsibility across the country? 

JS - Yes, they do. We cd put this in as QA measure. Make sure these VCs are updating their websites. 

JS - Wd it make sense to have a backup? Or have someone in Comms be a backup?

DC - yes, either. It’s what makes sense for your biz process. We can set up various permissions. 

JS - we might be up for giving the director rights and having a couple ppl be the admins. 

*Next steps* - 
1) Interview outreach specialists 
JS - 
* Start with the 4 ppl on this call. You should get a pretty good variety. 
* May need a sub for the West Coast person. 

Can set these up soon. 

2) ID the VCs we wd profile for the widest variety possible. This will prob be more defined after talk to OR specialist. 

LH - 
* We wd get more qual data. 
* Want to run the form by you all. 

LH - describing form for getting info about VCs. 

JS - think online survey or ?aire seems best. 

JS - The basic services offered at a VC should be there without question. They should be same in big city or small town. 

JS - Largest VC has 11-12 employees. 

LH - want to hear what services are called, etc. Fact check against Veteran. 
___

MM - we are trying to nail down some photo specs. 
