P1
==

Transcript
----------

### --- Warm up Q's ---

**Have you ever searched for the documents you've submitted for VA benefits and claims online?**

Yes.

**What documents?**

A couple. One was my DD214, also I searched to see if I had my appeals submitted. I hired a firm to handle my appeals, and they had to submit some stuff, so I had to check there.

**What website?**

eBenefits.

**Did you find what you were looking for?**

No.

**Was that the only time or multiple times?**

I've searched multiple times and never found what I was looking for.

**Have you ever used the My Documents tool on eBenefits?**

I have not.

**Are there any other docs other than appeals docs that you'd like to find online?**

Well I guess my medical records on the claim, like sleep study results. I couldn't really find those, I had to go through the medical records side. You have MHV... it seems like both sites have the same login options. They've kind of blended. I'll want to check the status of my benefits, and it will throw me to another site. I consider myself tech savvy but it's not very intuitive.

**Which site do you use most often?**

eBenefits, but recently I've been using MHV for prescriptions. I have an open claim that I check up on, so I've been going to eBenefits a lot more.

**What types of VA documents relating to your specific benefits and/or claims would you be interested in finding online?**

N/A

**If you were searching for [documents the participant named], what would that experience look like for you?**

I'd go to eBenefits, and on the homepage, it has a 'Manage Benefits' button. There's a button that says 'Check Claims Status,' so that's where I'd start.

The other thing is, I appreciate the security, but it was really hard to figure out the levels of login. One of the things I always dread is, specifically when it's been awhile since I logged in, there comes a point where I have to change my password. It requires me to change my password, to me, it's a mission when I have to do that with the authentication. It's a pain. The way I access it right now is through Safari because it has a great password storage system. For me, it's part of the PTSD symptoms... my memory is not so good. So there are some days that are better than others, but I don't trust a lot of things to memory.

**What type of device would you use to search for VA-related documents? (if needed: mobile device, desktop, tablet, etc.)** 

Macbook. If I were to put it in percentage, 95% of the time, I'm accessing it on a laptop. 5% of the time it's mobile or tablet, but I equate the experience to Blackboard. I'm part of vocational rehab - I'm back at school - and there are similarities in accessing it. I have an extremely hard time accessing these sites on mobile.

### --- First Task ---

> Participant is using Safari on iPhone

**Let's imagine that you're searching for VA-related documents like the ones you mentioned earlier. Talk me through what your steps would be to find those documents starting from this screen.**

Top right hand corner, click menu. Click VA Benefits and Health Care. I'd try Records. I've never gone in this way, so this is a first for me. Um... so if I needed to download a benefit letter, I'd go through here (Download your VA benefits letters). So let's say I was looking for records pertaining to my claims, I'd look at 'Payment history' to see if it gets me where I need to go.

**Why would you pick payment history?**

Normally it will take... the Payment history page is like Grand Central Station for where you need to go. It's a process of elimination, it's not clear to me where I'd need to go, and I think I'd get closer. It just seems like, from here, I'd be able to navigate... <<found the "File a Disability Claim" -> "File for disability claim.." And found all of the forms.>> Somehow, someway, by process of elimination, I get where I need to go.

**So you'd expect it to be on those pages pertaining to claims?**

Yes.

**Say there's a spot that stores your documents, where might you expect to find that tool?**

I'd expect it to live under VA Benefits and Healthcare, under Records. Just the same way I can view my VA Payment History and Military Records, this is where I would expect it.

**What kind of key words would you expect to see?**

Um... I would expect for it to be worded in a way that.. the same way I see "Search historical military records" I'd expect it to say "Search historical VA records"

**Are you comfortable signing in?**

I am, hopefully I remember my login. I might be able to get it from my keychain. 95% of the time, I'm accessing it on my desktop.

### --- Second Task ---

**Go ahead and show me how you would find your records and that tool that houses all of your VA related documents. It should be called My Documents.**

So I'm sure that this experience on the browser is much better, but on a mobile phone, this is terrible. I would not come here to get anything. I'd be relegated to the browser on my laptop to do it, because from a navigation experience, it's bad. It's not impossible, but it's not intuitive at all.

> He has 2 documents "Document.pdf" with a type of VA 28-1900 and ...

First thing I'd do is filter by document type, and there are only two, and then by the received date... nah not gonna try that because it's a hot mess. So I found those are my only two options. There are only two documents here and I have a history going back to 2015. All I'm seeing here is kind of recent. Nothing on disability claims, percentage letters, none of that stuff. I would expect those things to be here. Or an easy way to see these.

I've heard this from other Veterans, and I believe that the VA has improved dramatically over the last few years, but when I first started going to the VA, I heard that 'this place causes PTSD.' Guys like me don't have a lot of patience, not because of personality, just what we have to deal with. This is just not gonna work. I would've given up awhile ago.  I've had a few years worth of requests, I applied that date range, and I only have 2. So I'm looking at this and it's not really a repository of documents. Where's my disability documents, my approval letters? The oldest thing here is a little over 2 years old. That's not what I was expecting.

**What would you do about finding documents not in this tool?**

Realistically, I'd start making phone calls or go to the VA in person to see if someone can figure it out or help me. For me, it's different because I had a third party helping with my appeals. If I were a betting man, I'd bet that most veterans feel this way and have to hire a third party to help with this process otherwise you'll miss deadlines. You feel like it was purposely set up to be difficult to navigate in order to make you miss deadlines and stuff.

**When you're looking at your documents list, when you clicked on that document type... what kind of key words were you looking for for finding your documents?** 

Claims, award letters, appeals, medical records, service records, things that you would expect to be filed away in a bucket that contains records.

**Is there a different way you'd prefer to search for these documents?**

Yea, so, the closest thing I can compare it to is iCloud or Google Drive. I can maybe access these documents and then save. Not every letter I receive from the VA is important to me. When I receive hard copies, I scan them and save them in the cloud. I've got redundancies where I have iCloud and Google drive. I would like to be able to go back and run a search by date range and type. I have all of that stuff saved because I scanned them. I knew that if I expected the VA to keep letters, I'd be disappointed. I think I have a little bit of a tech background, but I don't think most people do this, they just have hard copies filed away at home. I should be able to file these documents away in the same way that health records are.

**When you have all of your documents in your drive, if you were to search for your service records, what would you do to find that in the hub of all the records that you've scanned?**

Well hopefully, I would've organized them by type. If it's a filing system that I'm managing, I'd make different file folders. Anything associated with correspondence or claim or bulk folder. That way, if I needed to find it, I'd be able to without date ranges. I like the whole document type, it would be great if it was a dropdown that had Claim records, voc rehab records, etc. Any touchpoint in the VA in terms of benefits, it would be good to have that in the menu. You know, a list of files... if I wanted something over a year, I'd put a date range in. Obviously mobile friendly.

**Is this something you'd like to access on mobile?**

Absolutely. If I access my bank on mobile, why can't I do the same for my military records?

**If you were using the tool and you did end up finding the document you were looking for, what would you expect to happen when you click on it?**

I'd expect to download it as a PDF. I'd expect options to print or share. Someone's probably asking me for this document. Why do I have to have a horrible scanned version of my DD2, I want to access it digitally and email or print.

### --- Post-task Interview ---

**Any additional thoughts?**

I hadn't been on ebenefits on a mobile device in months or years, it looks exactly... I got the same frustrations as I logged on last time. Nonexistent mobile experience.

**What did you think of[  VA.gov](http://va.gov) mobile experience?**

It's a little better. You know what would be awesome? When I go to check my passwords on my iPhone, it has face recognition enabled. Why can't I log in using my face? And that's something that's super secure.

Takeaways:
----------

-   He used eBen to see his DD214 and to check that his appeals materials had been submitted on his behalf

-   Would've expected to find medical records on the claim (e.g. sleep study results)

-   Checks eBenefits often to see status of his open claim

-   Found authentication levels difficult to navigate and struggles with password keeping due to his disability

-   Expects documents to be under Records as "Search historical VA records", but also looks beneath 'Disability' when the document is related to his disability claim. 

-   Defaults to using desktop to deal with VA sites because the mobile experience is poor, but would like to check on mobile.

-   Only had 2 documents, despite having a 5-year-long history with claims at the VA. Expects to see things like disability claims decisions, percentage letters, etc.

-   Would make calls to find missing documents if he wasn't working with a third party

-   Suspects the whole system may be rigged to be confusing so that Vets miss deadlines

-   Looks for categories like: "Claims, award letters, appeals, medical records, service records, things that you would expect to be filed away in a bucket that contains records."

-   Scans and saves documents from the VA digitally, would like the tool to work similarly to iCloud/Gdrive, where he makes folders and categorizes his documents.

-   Noted that, if he's looking up a document, someone is probably asking for it, and he would like a way to easily share the PDF.
