# P10

## Transcript:

### — Warm-up Q’s —

**Have you ever searched for the documents you've submitted for VA benefits and claims online?**
Yes

**What documents were you looking for?**
Oof, been a while. So, the VA claim I made was for dependence compensation. I started the claim back in 2001 back before all this technology existed. Most recently would have been about 2 years ago. I would have been searching for things related to not getting SPB from my husband’s death. And probably his medical opinions from other doctors.

**Which VA site did you visit to search for those documents?**
I don’t know. That’s a whole conversation in it of itself the way you gotta bounce around in there.

**Do you have the short of it?**
You start, I’m a disabled veteran myself. My late husband finally after 19 years - 17 years, we won our case - I won my case about his death being service-connected. I know that you start out at [VA.gov](http://va.gov) and you bounce to, I don’t even know how many different places. It’s the world’s most confusing - you gotta log in 3-4 different times, I know that’s an exaggeration, but certainly more than once. The whole login system with the government is ridiculously complicated. I don’t know how older veterans, specifically spouses, figure it out.

It’s still complicated and irresponsible how difficult it is for a spouse to get benefits.

**Did you find what you were looking for?**
I did! I did find everything I was looking for, yes ma’am.

**How often do you search for these types of documents?**
So, I haven’t done it in a while. When I needed to, near the end before we got the whole thing settled, I was probably in there a couple times a month.

**Have you ever used the My Documents tool on eBenefits?**
Yes. So, like I said I’m a disabled Veteran myself and a retired civil servant. I go in there occasionally too.

**Can you describe to me a specific time recently that you have used it?**
No, probably not. Been a while.

**What types of VA documents relating to your specific benefits and/or claims would you be interested in finding online?**
So, I did submit a claim for myself not too long ago to get disability award for Reynoids (sp?) and diabetes in the past couple years. I was looking for information on why they denied the claim, they said it had to be within a certain number of years after retirement. I don’t agree with that and I’m considering appealing but I haven’t done that yet.

So, I would hope to find previous cases. Uhm, what are they called.. precedence. I would expect to find that, and I would expect to find those title US codes about how the decision was made rather than someone’s opinion at VA. I’ve learned over the last 26 years that… you have to find the person with the appropriate opinion to move on.

**In regards to your recently submitted claims, what kind of documents would you be looking for?**
Maybe I didn’t answer your question before. I’d be looking for precedence, previously approved cases, result of cases, samples of cases authorized and denied. There’s a whole database, I used it for my husband’s case but I don’t remember where it is.

**If you were searching for [documents the participant named], what would that experience look like for you?**
Keyword search. I would control + F and look for “hearing” or a date. That would depend on what the VA wanted me to do with them. If they wanted me to submit, if they wanted me to submit something that was worded in a different way. In my experience, medical professionals have to use these words: it is at least as likely as not, this condition x was.. I would see if this was in the documents before I submitted.

### — First Task —

**Let’s imagine that you’re searching for VA-related documents like the ones you mentioned earlier. Talk me through what your steps would be to find those documents starting from this screen.**
    [Participant searches for specific documents]

So, let’s see. I’d probably go here first “Check your VA claim or appeal”. And then… I don’t care about the virus. I have an account. I may or may not remember the password. So that’s the next thing I’d do, is sign in.

If the participant navigates to the claim status tool:

**-   Do you feel comfortable signing into your VA.gov account so we can take a look at the tool?**
-   If yes, stop recording while the participant signs in
   
[Participant signs in]

This goes back to what I was saying earlier. Multiple ways to log on, multiple things I have to remember. It took me to a completely different place on the URL. Now I have my phone so I can get the verification code. Almost every laptop you buy now has a fingerprint on it, as does the phone. Why aren’t we doing that?

Oh by the way, now everybody seems to have a CAC. I have a VA CAC, I have a retired military ID card, I have a retired civilian CAC. Why can’t I just use my CAC and log on everywhere? All the government sites. Everybody has a CAC or they can get one. Give me a CAC and a card reader and move on. Alright, I’m over that!

**-   Show me what you would do to find documentation you've uploaded relating to your claim**  
    So here we go. This was from a year ago. View details. I would probably go here. Retirement pay waiver - what?? Let’s look at this one first. *Opens first claim*
    

Alright, so my claim is ready. If you agree.. don’t do anything. So I have to read all this nonsense before going here to look for a document. So, here’s all the documents, but if you notice I can’t click on anything.

**M: Is that something you’d like to do?**
Yes ma’am

**M: Why for?**
Well, it says there’s correspondence. Where is it?? It says here: Additional evidence. File type: Correspondence. Okay?? If I go to details it says what I did, it’s not available what I claimed. So I’m here, there are no documents. Spent what, 6 or 7 minutes. I’m looking for a document that isn’t here. It’s not available. Are you frustrated? Cuz I am.

**-   Why might you want to access documents you've previously uploaded?**
    

**-   What types of documents?**
I would certainly want to see what this is: Correspondence. It says they mailed it to me, but I know I didn’t get it and they told me it’s denied and to move on. If it were on here, I wouldn’t need the papers. Although I know the government likes paperless since 25 years ago. But apparently I filed a medical treatment record. Where is that? I can’t click on it to find it. I can’t click on this to find what was submitted. Y’all say it’s submitted - but where are they?

**M: The Correspondence. You said that’s something VA sent you?**
Good question. Who submitted it - me or them? What you claimed is not available. Really? Come on! You do this for a living so I’m sure everyone you ask goes through this.

**-   How would you expect to search for a document?**  
    So, I think I recall that you must submit electronically. Well, that’s not true. So when you read how to submit a claim, it says they recommend submitting electronically. If you don’t, your claim will take a long time. It doesn’t say that, but that’s what it means. If I submitted my medical treatment record here, and I submitted my correspondence here, why cant I get it back? Why cant I click on it and see? What if I don’t remember - like now? What if I need to appeal it and I need to see what I sent?
    

**M: Any other reason to access documents?**
Nope, not that I can think of.

**M: Would you expect a link?**
I would expect if I hover over this it would give me the index finger and I could click on it.

**-   What would you expect to happen if you opened one of the documents?**
-   What would you do once opening the document?
-   Describe your document(s) to me. Is it clear what each document is about?
-   If not, what would make it clearer for you?
[Task completed]

**-   Now imagine there’s a location on this site that stores VA-related documents you've uploaded. Talk me through where you’d expect to find that tool.**
I would expect to find it here under Records.

**M: What would you expect that to say?**
So, this is funny. Maybe another block that says “MY VA records”. These are records you can get, but not necessarily your records. I have a service dog, I had to download my disability compensation - whatever that letter’s called. But I’m thinking another block that says “My VA records” or “My VA documents” or “My VA” or something that indicates that it’s my personal stuff. I’ve already logged in and all the things on this page aren’t about me - they’re about life in general. I think you should be able to get to this page without logging in cuz it’s not relevant. So under disability, “check your claim or appeal status”, “view your payment history”, all that stuff… let me look here. I guess it does have to do with me, so logging in is fine. Something under Records should say “Documents” and every piece of paper should be uploaded there. “My files”, “My uploads”.

**-   Do you have any other thoughts before we move to the next portion of the session?**
No 

### — Second Task —

**-   Go ahead and show me how you would find [one of the documents mentioned earlier]. Talk me through what you’re thinking as you search.**
    Oh look! There’s my documents (clicks on My Documents). Let’s see. Well that’s all those things I was looking for 17 clicks ago.

  

**M: What are these we’re looking at?**
I should have opened in a new window. Remember when we were looking at the claims documents - these are those. So, you see why I’m baffled? I didn’t count them, but I’m betting it was at least 18-20 clicks. And another logon to get to these documents which I could have very easily clicked on under that claim. Does that make sense?


#### Additional Questions about the table


  

**M: How would you want to search?**
Let’s look at something we know is in here. Reynauds. (Typed into the eBenefits search bar). Now see that, it took me to general information about Reynauds. I’ll presume that this search is all eBenefits and what I really want is a search for My Documents. A keyword search here, or up here a search for eBenefits or search My Documents. I don’t care about.. if I need to search all of eBenefits that’s fine but when I’m here I wanna search here.

**M: What do you think about these Document Types?**
I’m guessing there’d be a longer list. Let’s pretend I had three claims going on. I’m guessing I’d have these three things three times. I’m just guessing, I dunno.

**M: What do you think will happen if you select one?**
I dunno, let’s see. *Selects one and opens a document* Okay, that’s a piece of paper that I uploaded.

Hmm, what’s not here. *opens What documents will not appear here?* See how you’re penalized if you don’t have a scanner? Veterans has millions of disabled Vets looking for work. So now if I don’t have a scanner I have to go to Staples and pay to get documents submitted. And then I have to come back here and log in twice or three times to make sure it’s there. And I know how painful it is that their central intake center is. Even if you fax or send something in electronically, it takes two weeks to get from the center to your record. It’s ridiculous. Should be able to go to my record and upload it and it automatically emails my case worker and notifies them that there’s a new document available. Then return something that someone saw it, like a read receipt.

This is interesting: only displays documents submitted online. If you submitted documents online, please wait 60 minutes. Okay look at this! If I mail something, fax, or hand-deliver it then it won’t ever show up apparently. So the only way I can view it is to submit a privacy act request. Have you ever done one? It’s painful. The form is worse than some of these VA forms. The recipient has 120 days - 6 months! - to respond. And THEN you have to pay for it. They make you pay for printing, and mailing, and copying. Which goes back to if I’m mailing, faxing, or delivering it why isn’t someone scanning it.

  
**M: What do you think about the second option?**
Calling?? Calling is a nightmare. A series of push 1, push 6, push 32, wait 75 minutes. So, yeah calling would be my very, very last resort EVEN after privacy act. Submitting a privacy act request for my own document is really, really taking it to the limit.

**-   How many documents would you prefer to see on each page in the table?**  
    Well, it gives me an option. *Clicks the Show*.

**M: You think 25 isn’t too many?**
If the search feature was functional, it really wouldn’t matter.

  

**M: So in that search feature, what sort of keywords would you expect to be able to look up?**
Claim number if you knew it, conditions I’m looking for information on, or maybe “Refine by claim” or “condition” and it would list the three conditions I have claims in for because that’s part of the initial upload. Then it would only return documents relating to that condition as well as a keyword search.

  

**M: You saw that the documents were 1:1 with the tool you viewed. (Claim status tool) Would you expect to access those documents anywhere else?**
So, I would expect to be able to access them either way. So my point is, you led me here because you’re Zooming with me. I went to [VA.gov](http://va.gov) because when I get correspondence it says to go to [VA.gov](http://va.gov). I found what I was looking for in text. No one in there did it tell me that I had to go to eBenefits to see those documents. So, you led me here but how would I have gotten here if you weren’t on the phone with me? So this is why I’m saying that it’s over complicated. So, if I was on [VA.gov](http://va.gov) and I clicked the link, what should be a link, to get here. There should be some other button that says “go back to [VA.gov](http://va.gov)” or on [VA.gov](http://va.gov) it says “go to eBenefits” where you can actually find your documents.

My thought process comes from my banking institution. My investments and banking are on two different sites, but I can bounce back and forth all day long. If I’m on one and I click on something, it will tell me where it’s taking me. I can see all that changing the URL so I know where I am and so I don’t have to guess where what I’m looking for is. So if I had rewards at one and rewards ta the other it doesn’t care. I click on rewards and all of them are there. I don’t have to do anything except find what I want, click on it, and it takes me there. So I would expect that the VA’s website, regardless of how many sub-sites it has, would work that way. But it doesn’t.
    

### — Followup Questions —

Post-task interview - 3 minutes

**-   Do you have any additional thoughts about what we’ve looked at today?**  
    Maybe it’s just me who has trouble finding what I want. I have to know to leave [VA.gov](http://va.gov) and go to eBenefits to find the things I already saw and I could touch - oh no I can’t touch them! There’s a filing cabinet, but there’s a lock on it. You have to find the manager to unlock.

I’m all about this for my fellow Veterans who don’t have a chip in his head. For example, my uncle would never be able to navigate this. They do email and Facebook and that’s what they do. My dad’s a Veteran and he’s 89. Can you imagine them trying to do this?

**-   Any questions for me?**
    No

## Riley’s notes:

-   Most recently searched for documents about two years ago; however, she didn’t remember which site she visited because of her experience being bounced around the multiple VA sites
-   Expressed frustration with the sign in process and how confusing it is navigating the multiple VA sites
-   She compared her experience using VA sites with Bank of America/Merrill Lynch. She said bouncing between the two sites is intuitive and the separate sites speak to each other in a way that the VA sites don’t
-   When asked where she would expect to find the documents she’s looked for in the past, she navigated to the “Claims status tool”
-   She took a look at the first claim in the tool and expressed frustration with being unable to click on any of the documents she submitted
-   “Why cant I click on it and see? What if I don’t remember - like now? What if I need to appeal it and I need to see what I sent?”
-   She mentioned wanting to be able to search for documents by keyword or filter by the disability the claim was for so she could view all the documents relating to that claim
-   She told us that she wouldn’t have been able to navigate to view her claims documents in the My Documents tool without the moderator prompting her to go into that tool - finding those documents wasn’t an intuitive path
-   Similar to other participants, she was unsure what “Correspondence” meant. Was it documents she uploaded or documents from VA?
-   When asked where she would expect to find all the documents she’s uploaded, she mentioned a “block” (presumably one of the white containers on [VA.gov](http://va.gov)’s homepage) containing something along the lines of “My Documents”
-   Alternatively, she mentioned the documents being found under “Records” with a title such as “My files” or “My uploads”
-   She thought someone on VA’s side should be uploading documents that were mailed, faxed, or hand-delivered
-   She expressed great frustration towards the Privacy act request form because it can take 6 months to receive documents and VA can charge her printing and shipping fees
-   Regardless of these frustrations, she would still prefer to submit the Privacy request act form rather than calling VA
