# P13
## Transcript
### — Warm-up Q’s — 

**Have you ever searched for the documents you've submitted for VA benefits and claims online?**
Yes

**What documents?**
Medical records. Submitted claims.

**What kind of documents related to your claims?**
Status and whether or not I needed to submit more supportive documents.

**Did you look for the docs you submitted?**
Yes

**What website?**
eBenefits, VA Health 

**Is VA Health part of eBenefits or a different site?**
???

**Did you find what you were looking for?**
Yes

**How often do you search for those?**
4-5 times a year.

**Why would you search for those documents?**
Health records mainly for outside providers for them to compare tests. 

**Do you know if you ever used the “My Documents” feature on eBenefits?**
Yes

**Can you walk me through what that was like**
No, it’s been months.

**What types of documents would you like to find online?**
The type of claim form, what supporting documentation is needed…

**If you were looking for your medical documents, what would that look like to you?**
Well it’s all being connected so I don’t have to worry about it. Previously, there was a search and you could download those items. But now they each can see each other.

**What do you mean by the accounts are linked?**
Private physician and the VA are.

**Let’s say you were looking for documents supporting your claim,**
It would be no more than examining the claim to see if they’ve received the document. Otherwise, I would be searching to find documents that are needed.

**If you did find the supporting documents you submitted, what would you do with them once you found them?**
If it’s already uploaded, there’s nothing for me to do with it at that point.

**What type of device?**
Tablet or laptop or desktop. 

**What kind of laptop?**
HP laptop

### — First Task — 
**So, let’s imagine that you’re searching for those letters that you mentioned earlier on this website. Talk me through those steps.**
I don’t use this screen to search anymore, because I do everything through eBenefits right now. But if I was gonna look at anything, um… “Check your claim or appeal status” and Health care would be “View your lab and test results” If I was checking disability, I would choose “Check your… status”

<< Clicks into CST >>

**Have you ever used the claim or appeal status tool on this site?**
Yes.

**This is where you would expect to find that supporting documentation?**
Yes.

**Do you feel comfortable signing into your account?**
Sure.

<< Signs into VA.gov with DS Logon >>
<< Accesses tool >>


**How would you find your supporting documents?**
I would go to the claim and click on the details… then I would go check the status and files…

**What section would have that supporting documentation?**
Files

**Why might you want to access these documents?**
I submitted something wrong, so I had to check.  I thought I had uploaded.

**What did you do to correct that?**
I just went back in and submitted additional documents.

**How would you search for a document on this screen?**
Usually it would just show up on the screen there.

**How do you determine which document was mistakenly uploaded?**
I’d just click on the document to read it.

**On this screen?**
Correct.

**What would you expect to happen if you opened one of the documents?**
I would see what’s there, what was submitted.

**Is it clear what each of these documents is about?**
It is to me, yes.

//Navigates back to home using back button//

**So let’s imagine that there’s a location on this site that stores all documents, where would you expect to find it?**
//Scrolls down to blue section//
Um… hm. For disability, I’d still think it’s the same place I went to.

**Let’s say this tool would store documents about your claim as well as your medical documentation — so it’s everything you’ve uploaded.**
Well, if it’s related to disability, I’d expect it to be under disability, but if it’s health care records, I’d expect it to be there.

**Would you use a tool that houses all of your records, or would you expect it to be in its own bucket?**
In its own bucket, I have no reason to look at everything.

**Any other thoughts?**
No.

### — Second Task — 
//Logs into eBenefits//

**Go to My Documents and show me what you would do if you were looking to find those documents supporting your claim.**
//Clicks on Work in Progress link//

**So this is where you would go to find documents?**
Yes.

**Why would you go here rather than searching in My Documents tool?**
Because it would be here.

**Let’s say you were trying to find those documents in this tool specifically, what would you look for to find what you needed?**
Looking at the listing of the Document Type…

**What about that Document Type?**
Those forms that I would resubmit are spelled out here. More than likely, I would go to Work in Process or Historical claims or something of that nature.

**If you were to search for documents in this tool, what do you think about searching by the received date?**
Um… it makes sense in a sense that I’m looking for multiple claims. That would tie into everything. I assume that’s why they have it like it is, for identifying purposes.

**Would you know what dates to search for offhand?**
No.

**Are you able to determine which document corresponds to which claim on this table?**
Yes.

**Can you tell me more about how you determine that?**
Claim date. Authorization for release of information, obviously I know.

**Is there a different way that you would prefer these documents be laid out?**
No.

**What would you expect to happen when you click on those documents?**
What document it is and what’s there.

**Would you click into the document?**
Depends on what I went there for - to see if the document uploaded or to check the document itself. Unless it had something in there that indicated where it was in the claims process.

**Tell me more,**
When they received it, who it’s assigned to, suspected action, or if there’s additional info needed. I think previously, you had to wait to get a letter or some sort of correspondence. I would be easier, I think, if the information was available electronically. 

**Would you expect to find the letter itself in here?**
I think it would be attached to the file, whatever was submitted.

**Is there anything you would do with that letter?**
I would … whatever they requested. The only thing else is maybe a time notification. Some description within the submitted claim, the action portion.

**What would you do if you couldn’t find the document you were looking for on this page?**
Get something to drink and start all over again. I guess I would send an inquiry if there was somewhere to do that.

**Is there anything on this screen that gives you that?**
I don’t see anything.

**Ok… scroll down a little bit.**
//Scrolls to Frequently Asked questions//
Only thing I see that’s close to it is “If a document… does not have it?”

//Clicks on it//
**What do you think about this content?**
Hm. So if it wasn’t online, you wouldn’t know anything. 

**What do you think about that?**
I would think it truly gives a snapshot of what’s going on. Anything else I submit to the private practitioner, or applying for credit, everything is there. It gives you a full picture of what’s going on.

**That makes sense to me (how!?) Do you see anything else here that would give you that info?**
I see this “How can I obtain… displayed?”
This is more time consuming stuff to do if that’s the case. It would just make more sense if it’s a check log. Received, in process, these are the documents we have vs. need. So you can get some assurance that you’re not holding anything up.

**What does that checklist look like to you**
Claim received, it checks off documents (needed and received), this is the estimated time period for this claim, that kind of thing.

**If you were to request the document that wasn’t showing up in this tool, which option do you prefer?**
Neither. 

**What would your ideal be?**
Trying to get through to the VA is just … with MHV, you can send a private message to the physician instead of going through these.

**So you expect a messaging tool?**
Yes

**Who would you be messaging?**
If it’s going to claims, whoever. But if I was seeing what they were seeing, there wouldn’t be any question.

**How many documents would you prefer to see at once?**
I’d just expect what’s there - an overview. 

**How these documents are listed, over and over, what’s a good number to see all at once?**
It really doesn’t matter to me. I’m gonna click on whatever it is with the corresponding date.

//Goes to Work in Process//
**Show me where you’d find those claims documents in here?**
Open claims or Open applications

**What is this area about?**
There is an intent to file a claim for compensation - increased compensation.

### — Followup Questions — 

**Any questions?**
No

## Takeaways:
- When asked about his documents, he assumed we were talking about claims or his health-related documents. He has submitted claims and recently filed for an increase.
- He usually goes to eBenefits directly rather than searching through VA.gov.
- He would go to “Check your claim or appeal status” for claim-related documents and “View your lab and test results” for healthcare-related documents.
- He expected to find supporting documents to be found in the Claim Status Tool
- Wanted to see these documents to ensure they were submitted properly by opening them, and expected the file names to be links to view those documents. - Didn’t seem to have a problem with the names of the documents, would just open the documents to see what they were if he was unsure.
- He does not think all documents should be in a tool together.
- Even in eBenefits, he expected the documents to be under links like “Work in process” or “Historical Claims”
- Would not really know a date to search by 
- When describing how he would like the documents to be organized, he more or less described the CST (i.e. “checklist”
