
# P14

## Transcript:

### — Warm-up Q’s —

**Have you ever searched for the documents you've submitted for VA benefits and claims online?**

Uh, yes I’ve uploaded a few things.

**What documents were you looking for?**

Uhm, I’ve actually done both. I’ve uploaded outside medical records and I’ve done plenty of looking around just to see what’s all there for me and have access to.

**After you uploaded those medical documents, what were you uploading them for?**

Right now I’m working on getting an increase in my disability benefits and also just to have so my primary care can have outside documents.

**Have you ever gone back to look for those documents?**

Yes

**Which VA site did you visit to search for those documents?**

I think it was just My HealtheVet and [VA.gov](http://va.gov) going into my file to look and see what’s there.

**Did you find what you were looking for?**

Yes

**How often do you search for these types of documents?**

Probably a little more than now than most because I’m going through the process of getting an increase in my disability benefits. So my attorney had me go in making sure everything’s squared away before we continue down the path. More-so lately than usual but I try to stay up to date on my stuff throughout the year. Making sure my civilian record is in my VA file.

**Who uploads the documents?**

I have uploaded a few things at the very beginning to make sure my file is squared away

**Have you ever used the My Documents tool on eBenefits?**

Uhm, I don’t remember. I think I’ve seen it but I don’t know if I’ve used it. Pretty sure I have.

**What types of VA documents relating to your specific benefits and/or claims would you be interested in finding online?**

Uhm, probably really any of them. I know it’s super important to have my documents all up to date and up to snuff just to the purpose of even my primary care. So like I said I always try to do that. Sorry, I’m logging into eBenefits.

**If you were searching for [documents the participant named], what would that experience look like for you?**

I mean, I’d like to just log in and make sure what I’m hoping to have there is there and hasn’t gone away or didn’t get uploaded. I just like to make sure my stuff’s all where it should be or stuff I have put in there - I go in even after my appointments to look at notes from the doctor in my medical jacket to make sure what we talked about is there. I’m just always making sure everything looks like it should.

**Where would you like all this to happen?**

Usually I go to [VA.gov](http://va.gov). It takes me to eBenefits anyway but I know best how to get to it through [VA.gov](http://va.gov)

**What type of device would you use to search for VA-related documents? (if needed: mobile device, desktop, tablet, etc.)**

Probably more-so on my mobile device but I do get on my laptop frequently as well.

### — First task —

**Let’s imagine that you’re searching for VA-related documents like the ones you mentioned earlier. Talk me through what your steps would be to find those documents starting from this screen.**

Uhm, so I don’t know exactly where to go necessarily but if I’m looking for something relating to my disability I’d check my appeal status and usually I think there’s a document link in there so I can see where I’m at and see my time and date. Or like my healthcare. I order all my prescriptions online so I can do that here. And I have my records over here where I can download my benefit letters for home loans and things like that. To find anything I just keep looking around until I find what I’m looking for.

**Can you show me where you’d find the documents relating to your current claim?**

I know upload evidence to support your claim is what I’ve used to upload documents in the past. Let’s see… *searching in the main menu bar under Disability* Where I usually struggle is finding where my documents are; I just usually stumble across it. *Navigated to the claims status tool*

I know where to go with my appeals. I’m not remembering where…

*moderator redirects to “Check your claims and appeals” tool*

[Participant is signed into VA.gov]

**Show me what you would do to find documentation you've uploaded relating to your claim**

I guess just under “view details” and I’d click to see what’s under each of these.

*Participant selects one and there’s no “Files” tab because it’s an appeal*

*Participant is directed to click on a claim*

**What are you thinking about this page?**

Everything’s. here. *clicks files* And then you click “Files” and that’s where the documents are. That’s more familiar than the other pages are. This is where all the forms are.

**How would you use that files tab?**

This is where I’d go to make sure stuff I have or my attorney has my information. This is where I’d go to look to see if it actually got uploaded.

**Why might you want to access documents you've previously uploaded?**

Uhm, one just for accountability to make sure they’re there. And in case I lose my document I can print them out. If I don’t need them right away I can come back to it.

**How would you expect to search for a document?**

I mean, the links don’t seem.. I can’t click on that file. So unless it was highlighted or whatever I wouldn’t know. I don’t know what to do for that one.

**What would you expect to happen if you opened one of the documents?**

Uh, the link to open. So if I click this one, whatever that form is would open and it would tell me what it is. Whether it’s a medical document or something, and I’d know what that document is.

**What would you do once opening the document?**

I mean, just read it to make sure.. to see if it pertains to what it should be

**Describe your document(s) to me. Is it clear what each document is about?**

Not by looking at the file number. I’d have to pop it up to see what it is. It’d be easy once I did that.

**Now imagine there’s a location on this site that stores VA-related documents you've uploaded. Talk me through where you’d expect to find that tool.**

Hmm, yeah I don’t know the answer to that one.

**Would you expect to be able to find all documents in one place across all benefits?**

I mean… it would make sense if you could.

**Do you have any other thoughts before we move to the next portion of the session?**

Nope, I don’t think so!

### — Second task —

>>> Participant signs into eBenefits

**Go ahead and show me how you would find [one of the documents mentioned earlier]. Talk me through what you’re thinking as you search.**

There’s all the ones from that one page! I can click on it!

**What are you thinking?**

I like this because it’s all the links missing from the other page that I can click and open.

**So on this page, is there anything confusing about any of this? Trying to locate the right document?**

No, cuz it gives you the file name you were seeing on the VA page but over here it tells you what it is (Doc type) so I don’t have to click on it to see what it is cuz it tells you. I wouldn’t have to click on each one to figure out the document.

**There are two documents here that say Correspondence. What do you think that means?**

I guess it’s just notes from the VA about my file.

**How would you go about finding a particular document?**

I think just by. searching up here in the Document Type search bar.

**What do you think about those options?**

Uh, pretty straightforward.

**What do you think about searching for documents by the received date?**

That would be if I took something into the VA… let’s say on the first. I can search from the 1st to the 16th and see and tell if that one thing is uploaded by the date range.

**Do you think that’s information you would know off-hand while searching for documents?**

Uhm, I mean my memory isn’t all that great but I think if I dropped it off on the first I’d remember that and do the search with the date range.

**Do you see yourself doing that?**

Yeah. I’d probably be more apt to search by document title but if I couldn’t find it then I’d attempt to use the date range.

**How many documents would you prefer to see on each page in the table?**

I dunno, I think the 25 is good and most tables are. Non-VA if there’s pages and pages then it shows them initially and you can adjust as needed or page through to find them. I think 25 is a good amount.

**What would you expect to happen if you clicked on one of the documents?**

Uhm, it says up here that… what was that. When I hover over the document it says “Click to enter and download the file” so I’d think it would open and download to the computer.

**What would you want to do after finding the document you’re looking for?**

I mean, read it to make sure it’s all correct and if I need to keep it for some reason I can download it to my files on my PC or know it’s here and I can come back to it.

**What all do you expect to be here? Things you’ve put or also VA?**

It looks to me that most of this stuff is forms that I’ve submitted for developed claim or files and statements from buddies. Information I’ve been asked to upload to my file either by VA or my attorney to help my case. It looks like there’s also stuff VA’s uploaded such as decisions, letters, and a lot of them are VA forms.

**What would you do if you couldn’t find the document you’re looking for?**

I’d probably… either search it out or try to get ahold of somebody to ask if they have the document or if it’s been uploaded. Don’t know who I’d call, but I usually just call the VA number and tell the switchboard what I need.

**Is there anywhere on this page you think you could get an answer for who to call?**

Maybe the frequently asked questions might. Or up here where it says the regional office number. *clicks FAQ link*

*Opens “If a document does not appear, does that mean the VA does not have it?” link*

**What do you think about this?**

I mean, it’s pretty straightforward. Tells you how long it takes, delivery methods. If you submitted via these ways it gives you how long it’ll take.

*Clicks “How can I obtain documents that are not displayed?”*

**Which method would you prefer?**

Uhm, probably calling somebody.

**Why’s that?**

I usually feel better just talking to somebody to make sure my question is answered. If I submit something online I’m not sure if it’s submitted and I’m the kind of guy who wants to keep pushing until something’s answered. It helps me to say what I need to for my own purposes. To see what’s happening.

**How does this page relate to the first page we were looking at?**

This one’s a little more user-friendly I guess. It’s more stuff right in front of you where you can click and go. Plug and play. You log in, everything’s right there and you can click on it, move, go, open documents, whereas the other one… I’m not sure where I would have opened those documents.

**Was there anything about that other site that was helpful that this doesn’t have? Or vice versa?**

I tend to go to [VA.gov](http://va.gov) a little more because I feel like it sometimes has more up-to-date information. I don’t know if that’s true, but that’s my experience. I think if [VA.gov](http://va.gov) had one of those links for those documents we just looked at on eBenefits then I’d always use [VA.gov](http://va.gov) rather than eBenefits. I can order all my prescriptions on [VA.gov](http://va.gov) which is usually why I’m here. On eBenefits I have to search around.

### — Post-task interview —

**Do you have any additional thoughts about what we’ve looked at today?**

Don’t think so.

## Takeaways

- He's currently on getting disability increase, so he's looked for documents relating to that increase in addition to medical documents 
- He primarily uses VA.gov 
   - He prefers going to VA.gov because the information is more up-to-date, and he orders prescriptions through that site
- Is more likely to access documents using a mobile device, but also uses a laptop 
- He immediately navigated to the CST (Claim status tool) to look for documents relating to his claim. 
   - There was some initial difficulty finding the documents because the tool looks different for appeals vs. claims. There isn't a "Files" tab for appeals 
- He expected to be able to open the documents listed in his claim, and when he was unable to and was asked if he would be able to determine what each document contained he stated that the only way he'd be able to tell is by opening the document 
- When he signed into eBenefits and navigated to the My Documents tool, he immediately realized that the documents listed matched those from CST
- He's more likely to search by Document Type rather than date, but would attempt to search by date if he didn't find what he was looking for
- If he can't find the document(s) he's looking for, he's more likely to call VA rather than submit a Privacy Request Act because he thinks it's easier to get his questions answered if he talks to a human
