P2
==

Transcript
----------

### --- Warm-up Q's ---

**Have you ever searched for the documents you've submitted for VA benefits and claims online?**

Yes I have, on eBenefits. Uhm, in 2018 I filed an increase in my disability claim. So, I had to upload them and make sure they were there and everything.

**You wanted to make sure they were there?**

Yeah, they uploaded properly and everything. I would check occasionally to see if they responded or had any letters. It's quicker than waiting for the mail. 

**Did you find what you were looking for?**

No, I didn't really have any trouble finding anything on eBenefits.

**When you were making sure you were uploading things and you'd be able to find the stuff, were you able to find those documents as well?**

Yes, I was. Every once in a while people want a summary letter of my benefits. So, they have that... I think it's a new thing, but a letter generator. You can go there and print out the letter at home. Before, it would take months to get that; for them to send it. I like that feature. 

**How often do you search for these types of documents?**

Well, when I was doing my claim it was every day. I haven't really been on there for 6 months or so. I just go on there sometimes to look at my account. 

**Have you ever used the My Documents tool on eBenefits?**

> Yes

**Can you describe to me a specific time recently that you have used it?**

Uhm, in Minnesota you get a property tax break if you have 70% more disability. I applied for that property tax break so I had to go in there probably about 6 months ago and print out one of those letters that shows that I have the disability. My dd214 and everything. About 6 months ago when I was applying for a property tax benefit.

**What types of VA documents relating to your specific benefits and/or claims would you be interested in finding online?**

Uhm, I'd like access to my medical file. Also, when I submit a claim I have to go in and talk to a guy that rates you, like a psychiatrist. I'd like to see what his notes are on me. I don't think those are available anywhere. I'd like to see what he says about me. *Laughs* 

**Anything else?**

I mean, I'm just curious what the VA says about me as far as when they decide how much to rate my disability. I'd like to see what the raters say about me, not just the final summary of their decision.

**Any other benefit or documentation?**

Uhm, I can't think of any right now. 

**If you were searching for [documents the participant named], what would that experience look like for you?**

I would like to know when you send it in, like a progress. It's being rated, or give some sort of timeline when they would decide the claim. Or just see. Otherwise it just feels like you send it into a black hole. You always gotta check on it and check on it. Even a little progress bar, "submitted, received, now it's at this office" something like that. 

**Say there was a repository of documents, how would you want to use that tool?**

Well, like to use for the property tax benefit. Just to kind of keep track when I put in my claim two years ago just to keep track of what I sent in. So I don't confuse them or send in something. Just to keep organized. So I don't double what I send in, or just to keep it all organized.

**What type of device would you use to search for VA-related documents? (if needed: mobile device, desktop, tablet, etc.)**

A desktop

**Do you ever use mobile to do these sorts of tasks?**

I think I tried once but it was quirky, I dunno. So, I like the big screen and I do more things on the desktop. I dunno, I'm sure it's secure but I don't like sending things through my phone. Doesn't seem as secure, but I'm sure it is. 

### --- First task ---

> Participant is using Safari

**Let's imagine that you're searching for VA-related documents like the ones you mentioned earlier. Talk me through what your steps would be to find those documents starting from this screen.**

I'd go right here (Check your claim or appeal status). I guess I'd be looking for eBenefits on here. 

**Why would you be looking for eBenefits?**

Because that would be where my disability claims would be. The "My Health" is my medical stuff. 

**Just to make sure I'm understanding, if you were looking for documents relating to your claim, you'd expect to find it somewhere on this page?**

Yes

**Now imagine there's a location on this site that stores your VA documents. Talk me through where you'd expect to find that tool.**

(Participant goes to homepage) Probably under "Records". For like everything? Yeah, I would say under "Records"

**What link would you expect to see?**

You know, just like "Search all VA records" or to include both medical and benefits. Medical records and disability records, or your claim. I suppose that might be too much for one link. 

### --- Second task ---

**Are you comfortable signing into your eBenefits account so we can access the My Documents tool?**

Oh, sure!

**You've used this tool before?**

Yeah! These are all the stuff I loaded up.

**Is this all what you expected to see?**

Yeah

**Go ahead and show me how you would find [one of the documents mentioned earlier]. Talk me through what you're thinking as you search.**

I think this one "VA 21-526EZ". All of this is from my disability claim (all the documents in the table).

**Do you know what all of those Correspondence documents are? Are those things you uploaded?**

Yeah (Opens one). Oh, okay. They wanted me to know if I filed unemployment. 

**Is this something you scanned and uploaded?**

Yeah. These are all things I scanned and uploaded. 

**What were you thinking and looking for?**

It's a history of everything I've uploaded and I go by date of what I was doing at the time. 

**What keywords are you looking for as you go through the Document Type list?**

(Participant didn't use the Type list). I was looking for "VA disability claim". These are ones I titled though. 

**All of these are ones you've submitted?**

Right. These are all the ones I submitted. I think. These might... (clicks on one). These might be ones I received. This is all stuff I submitted. 

**Is that what you expected? What else would you have expected to see?**

I guess, well this is My Documents being what I submitted. It doesn't show what VA sent out or all the VA documents sent to me. Maybe that's under something else. The decision and stuff. 

**With a title like My Documents, you would assume documents from the VA are included as well?**

I guess I would think possibly. Maybe they'd be in some other location. Maybe here (Historical claims) or "decisions". Or you know, "VA decisions". I think it is under... let me see. The stuff that the VA sent to me about all this. Maybe it's under "Request for more information". I think it's under "Dashboard". Or maybe it doesn't show because it's closed. Oh, "Work in progress"! I think that's where the VA letters are at. Since they already made the decision maybe it isn't here. Oh, "Completed applications". Huh, I guess there isn't. I don't know where it'd be then. 

**When you were looking for a section where VA documents would be, what would you expect it to be called?**

"VA letters" or "Letters". "Letters from, correspondence from VA". 

**And you wouldn't want this included in My Documents?**

Unless it had, you know, a certain title. My Documents, maybe My Submitted Documents, and another called VA Correspondence/Letters. Something like that. 

**What do you think about searching for documents by the received date?**

I think that would be easiest. Could go back to what you first put in and search by received date. That's a good way to go. 

**Can you show me how you'd do that?**

Yeah, you can do soonest to latest and latest to soonest. That's a good way to do it. Yeah, this is a good one. What you first started with. yeah. 

**What do you think about "Refine by Document Type"?** 

To also put in here the correspondence from VA?

**Yeah, how would you imagine that?**

Yeah, maybe to put that under Document Type. These are just the forms (Referring to VA 21-526EZ). I wonder if VA uploaded these. I think VA uploaded these. I wouldn't title it that. I wouldn't that as a title for a document that I would put in. I think this is what I filled out online and submitted it, and somehow it got loaded into here. Yeah, that's what these are. I filled this out online, submitted it, and now they're here.\

**Did the links act as they expected?**

Yes, they did. 

**What would you want to do after finding the document you're looking for?**

Well, it's nice if it's PDF because you can save it to your desktop, print it out, and keep a hard copy of it. 

**What would you do if you couldn't find the document you're looking for?**

Yeah, I don't know! Maybe check to see if it got misplaced or something. Or figure it didn't load for some reason. Oh, here we go! (Sees the frequently asked questions anchor link) I'd go here!

(Opens "If a document does not appear...") Okay, here we go! 

**What would your next step be?**

That answered the question for me! Just call them here. Oh, if I sent it by mail, yeah. 

**Your next step would be to call?**

Yeah, I'd go to the frequently asked questions and see. Yeah, I'd just go here to see what to do. If I know I uploaded something and it's not there, I would definitely call. And they'd probably tell me to send it in again. If they don't have it, they don't have it! 

### --- Post-task interview ---

**Do you have any additional thoughts about what we've looked at today?**

Uhm, no. I was just looking at this, this morning under "Dependents" but only one of them shows up as a dependent. (Clicks on "Dependents" link) It's odd, so I'm gonna do the steps to see what happened here. I'll show you. That's probably why my internet is so slow! My kids are doing online school. See, I got two kids but when you get a disability you get extra depending on how many dependents you have. So my daughter is here, but not my son. 

**Yeah, you should contact VA about that**

Yeah, so I can do this! I'm gonna do that today and see why my son isn't on there. 

**Any questions for me?**

No! Yeah, I don't see where they send out the letters that you received if they approve your claim.

Top takeaways
-------------

-   The participant has previously used the My Documents tool to find documents that she uploaded regarding a disability rating increase 

-   The regularity that she uses the My Documents tool depends; she used it daily when submitting for a disability rating increase but hasn't used it in about 6 months

-   Would like to be able to access medical documents

-   Prefers using desktop to access the tool because the mobile experience is "quirky" and she prefers using a large screen

-   During the [VA.gov](http://va.gov) IA task, the participant navigated to the Claim Status tool content page to find documents relating to disability claims; expects a location containing all documents to be under the "Records" hub

-   The participant was unsure whether the documents in My Documents were uploaded by her or VA; she had to open multiple documents to figure out what they were about 

-   The only way she was able to determine which documents were uploaded by VA was by the file name looking different than what she would title documents she uploaded

-   She thought that if VA correspondence wasn't included in My Documents, they would be found in a document with keywords such as "VA letters" or "VA correspondence"

-   She expected to be able to save PDFs to print as hard copies 

-   She didn't immediately find the FAQ section; she noticed a link at the top of the page that redirected her to the accordions 

-   Her next step would be to call in order to receive copies of documents not found within the tool

Craig's notes
-------------

My Documents | DSVA Research Sessions | 2020-09 BAM 2 | Session 2

Discuss how to access documents related to VA benefits online

Feedback:

-   Filed a disability claim and had to upload docs

-   Expressed she had no trouble finding anything in eBenefits

-   Typically interested in getting access to medical records

-   When searching for a disability claim would like to see the progress of the claim

-   Prefers to use Safari on desktop instead of mobile view

-   When searching for docs selected the link for "Check your claim or appeal status" expecting to find eBenefits

-   Would expect all documents to be stored in the records category on va.gov homepage

Feedback after signing into ebenefits.va.gov and selecting "My Documents" link to access the tool

-   Expected to find a history of docs uploaded by date

-   Clicking the links expected to open a PDF of doc

-   After viewing PDF would expect to be able to save the doc
