# P4

## Transcript

### — Warm-up Q’s—

**Have you ever searched for the documents you've submitted for VA benefits and claims online?**

Yes

**What documents were you looking for?**

Uhm, I basically had a bunch of DD214’s and they told me they were missing them and I couldn’t figure out which one. I have 9 of them.

**Why 9?**

Because I had broken service and every time you re-enlist you get a new one. 

**Which VA site did you visit to search for those documents?**

I think it was eBenefits

**Did you find what you were looking for?**

I did eventually, yes

**Do you recall where on eBenefits?**

I don’t remember. It was a little while ago. 

**How often do you search for these types of documents?**

Uhm, maybe once a year.  Not often. Once I went through the VA process then it was a little less often. 

**Have you ever used the My Documents tool on eBenefits?**

Uhm, I can’t confirm or deny that one. 

**What types of VA documents relating to your specific benefits and/or claims would you be interested in finding online?**

I think at this point in post-retirement it would be things like percentage of compensation. So, if I’m applying for a job with the government it may position me differently if benefit status is applicable. 

**In the past you have submitted a disability claim online?**

Yeah, I went through a VSO but then I had to do followup submissions. 

**Were they increases, or not properly done?**

I think they were just missing pieces. It was just, “Oh, I need this additional documentation”

**What other documents?**

I was just talking about employment, so if I had a benefit say for my disability rating then I would say, “Okay I need a copy of that document to document my 70% disability”. It also came into play when I bought a home… I can’t remember if it was a mortgage discount, but it was something to document my veteran status.

**Were you able to find all those things?**

Absolutely! Probably not super fast, but I found them! 

**If you were searching for [documents the participant named], what would that experience look like for you?**

Uhm, like PDF format? Or search for them?

**Like, how would you be able to filter down or anything like that?**

I’d like to filter by year because I know for me that’s the most recent of something. But, I’m not too picky either way. 

**What type of device would you use to search for VA-related documents? (if needed: mobile device, desktop, tablet, etc.)**

If I have to sign something, I’ll be on my laptop. If I’m viewing, it’s probably on my phone.

**Once you did find these documents, what would be your next step?**


I would probably put them in some sort of protected format. So if I have to send something with PII I would encrypt it or put a password on it. 

### — First task—

**Let’s imagine that you’re searching for VA-related documents like the ones you mentioned earlier. Talk me through what your steps would be to find those documents starting from this screen.**

Okay, so generally I would try to figure out what area it applies to. So, if I were looking for a disability rating I would go through “Disability” and select “Check claim status”. 

**What sort of documents would you expect to find here?**

Any sort of letters, status, maybe some sort of log entry that says, “Your claim is at this status. Or you’ve been deferred because of this information.  You’ve been denied, approved, whatever”. Sort of like a dashboard. 

**When you’re going through claims you have to provide documentation. What would be your expectations?**

Like, providing document or filling out forms?

**Providing a document**

I’d expect that I’d have to scan it and upload it in some form. 

**Can you think of any reason why you’d want to re-assess what you’ve sent in as support for your claim?**

I’d say yes! For example, if I scanned it in and it wasn’t clear enough for the consumer then I’d have to go in and wonder why. Or if they need five years of information I could go back and say I provided five years of data. 

**Now imagine there’s a location on this site that stores your VA documents. Talk me through where you’d expect to find that tool.**

I would sign in. Generally at this point, I’m probably gonna use my CAG (sp?) reader. But I’m on my Mac so I’ll use DS Logon. (Participant receives an error when signing in) 

I would log in because I would assume the documents have some sort of personal information so I’d have to log in. 

**Do you have any inklings about where it would be on the site?**

No, I’d have to see it. 

**Do you have any other thoughts before we move to the next portion of the session?**

No.

### — Second task—

**Go ahead and show me how you would find [one of the documents mentioned earlier]. Talk me through what you’re thinking as you search.**

> The participant wasn’t able to log into DS Logon due to DS Logon being down. The session continued using screenshots of eBenefit’s staging environment
Additional Questions about the table

**What keywords are you looking for as you go through the Document Type list?**

If I were looking for something that changed, I’d look by date. If I was looking for my DD214s I would look under Document Type. If file naming convention is applicable then I’d have to know. For example, I don’t know what IRIS stands for. I wouldn’t know form number 333. It would depend on what I was looking for. 

**What do you expect to happen when you click on Document Type?**

I would expect the documents to be like, “from me” or “to me”. Or it could be the document type number. Whatever the standard forms are. Ability to query by form number, but again I’d have to know that number. Some obscure form about changing my name or something - I wouldn’t necessarily know what that is. So coming and going, and type of form. 

**So you’d be able to type it in?**

Type it in, pull down, toggle. If I had a pull down menu and I wanted all forms related to disability then I could toggle that box. Or all forms I’ve sent in, I could toggle that box. 

**So this is what we’re seeing with Document Type. (referring to screenshot)**

Right, so I wouldn’t know what VA Form28-1900. But you have “Vets Vocational Rehab” then I could toggle that. Is correspondence to or from? Am I sending that correspondence or did you provide me a letter of whatever. 

**When you’re saying toggles, what types of categories would you expect?**

I would say, “Apply for something” “update something” “change status” “submit”. I mean, without going through and looking at each one those would be my general categories. Like, an application for some sort of new benefit. 

**So here is a full view. If you were looking for DD214 what would you do?**

I’d go under Document Type because I know that form

**How many documents would you prefer to see on each page in the table?**

If on my phone, no more than five. If it’s on my screen, I don’t mind 10. 

**What would you expect to happen if you clicked on one of the documents?**

So, just by looking at that it would spawn Adobe and a PDF would open up. 

**What would you want to do after finding the document you’re looking for?**

If it was something I needed to review, I’d just review it. If it was something I need to keep, I would print that document. 

**Do you normally print?**

I do for work because they need hard copies. 

**What would you do if you couldn’t find the document you’re looking for?**

I’d probably find another way to search. So, for example this search is based on file name. Er, document type. But I’d say maybe because there’s 2017 or 2015 I would sort by most current for like my DD214. 

**And if this just wasn’t on the table at all?**

Probably call the VA *Laughs* Because it’s probably not there. If it’s generally something I know would be on My Documents…. if it was a blank form I’d Google it. But if I’ve filled it out, if it’s not there then it doesn’t exist. 

**What documents do you expect under My Documents?**

My Documents, to me, would be actions I’ve received from the VA that are complete, actions that have some sort of pending status, or evidence/data I’ve provided. I don’t expect blank forms.

**So, assuming that this was just things you’ve uploaded yourself, what would you expect it to be called?**

I’d still call it My Documents. But, remember I am thinking of this in terms of it’s mine and my conversation with VA too. If you’re talking to me from VA point of view, then I’d still consider that My Documents because it’s my conversation with VA. It’s our interaction with VA. 

**What would you do if you couldn’t find the document you’re looking for?**

I guess it would depend. Am I communicating to you, VA, or are you communicating to me? It I knew I had a version of a form, I’d mail it,  hand deliver it, or fax. If it was something I expected from VA and someone said it was in My Documents and it’s not there then I would initiate a conversation with VA. 

**If you were going to obtain documents that are unavailable in the tool, which method would you prefer?**

Uh, lets see. Yeah, I’d probably call VA at this point. 

### — Post-task interview —

**Do you have any additional thoughts about what we’ve looked at today?**

No, not really.

**Any questions for me?**

Nope!

### Takeaways
- Had to search for multiple DD214s which she said she successfully found through eBenefits, although she was unsure if she found the documents through My Documents

- Usually needs to access documents because she has to forward them to another person 

- If she needs to sign a document she will view it on her laptop, but she prefers accessing on a mobile device if she’s just viewing a document

- When asked where she’d find documents she’s looked for previously, she immediately went to the Claims Status tool and said she’d expect to find documents/letters about her claim there

- The participant wasn’t able to sign in due to DS Logon being down, so she viewed screenshots of the My Documents tool

- She said that filtering by form number could be challenging if she didn’t know the specific form number she was looking for

- She mentioned being able to sort by documents she uploaded and documents VA uploaded

- She liked that the name of the form/document was included in addition to the form number in Document Type filtering

- She’d prefer seeing no more than five documents per page on her mobile device, whereas she would be fine with seeing ten documents per page on desktop

- “My Documents, to me, would be actions I’ve received from the VA that are complete, actions that have some sort of pending status,  or evidence/data I’ve provided.”

- She’d likely call rather than complete the privacy request form

### Craig’s notes

My Documents | DSVA Research Sessions | 09-11-2020 | BAM 2 Session 4
Discuss how to access documents related to VA benefits online

**Feedback:**
- Searched eBenefits for DD214 form

- Not aware of the my documents tool

- Interested in getting more information about qualifying for disability benefits

- Would like to search and filter docs by year

- Prefers to use Safari on MacBook

- Unable to login to va.gov using Safari
