P5
==

Transcript
----------

### --- Warm up Q's ---

**Have you ever searched for the documents you've submitted for VA benefits and claims online?**

In the past, yes.

**What documents?**

I was looking for prior submissions, and it was during a time where they were just starting up. I found it difficult to work two systems. One system is through a VSO and the other one is the VA and the VA's webpage. The webpage occasionally gave me trouble because it wasn't always timely when I made submissions. I had better luck with the VSO. I've had different levels of difficulty. I'd hear back from the VA before I can see the documents online. Right now, I'm having difficulty getting on because they're updating the security and I've mixed up the images. I only get one chance, and I don't remember the image I picked. To get there, I had to have the right username and password.

**What documents exactly?**

I don't know the numbers, but it was the documents I submitted to the VSO. I've been working with the VA for 14 years.  I was in the military for many years and had 12+ surgeries. I had many many many pieces of paper of examinations and forms. Having that much paper is not easy to put into the webpage unless you have a document that scans them all in.

I had several exams across many years and part of the problem is that the VA made many determinations.

**What website?**

The VA site - eBenefits. I've been using that for years. It's gone through a lot of change with security, and we really want top notch security, but the requirements are a lot. I managed to maintain that. I tried to log on today, and I failed because it's been 3 months and I can't remember the image.

**id you find what you were looking for?**

I was able to find them when they put them on. What I found in working with a VSO separately, that quite often I would get a response. And this would take a long time. I'd get a response before seeing it on the webpage.

**How did you get the response?**

Snail mail. A VSO would call me verbally.

**How long after that did you go online?** 

Some documents, I never did find online.

**How often you search?**

Once a week until the final determination was made. So that was made in 2018. In the last year, maybe once a month. And that would be just to stay current on the webpage.

**Do you know if you ever used the "My Documents" feature on eBenefits?**

I believe I used it to upload.

**Can you walk me through what that was like?**

What I remember is that there was a fairly easy process when it asked me to upload the documents. I was doing it at the same time as I was with a VSO. What I found was they would not always be keeping up with the VSO, as slow as that was. I'm happy we got through it.

**What documents were you uploading?**

I don't remember numbers, but copies of the examinations, copies of the changes over 14 years with 16 injuries. With age, they tend to get worse. There are certain triggers that the VA use to call me in for an examination.

**What documents would you be interested in finding online?**

All the documents that we use for making the application and getting the answer back from the VA. It's easier to work with soft copies than hard copies. I've got drawers full of hard copies from the VA. I'm glad to have them, I needed them to take them and get tax exemptions.

**If you were to search for those documents online, what would your exp look like?**

I'd like to be able to see an archive of all of the documents that pertain to my case of 16 injuries.

**In your case, for 16 injuries, are those all separate cases or would all of them be combined?**

Not 16 separate. The initial submission in 2005, all of them went in at once. I got a hard copy back to let me know (about a year later), things that I saw online that were very helpful was that, when they reached a conclusion, were listed. When they gave me a VA disability rating, the letter would be current to the day that I would download it. I gotta give the VA credit for that, because that rating is important then I have to show it to the state or county folks. You have to know where to look! The first time I was looking for that VA letter, it took me awhile, but after that, I didn't forget!

**What device?**

Standalone computer at home - Windows.

### --- First task --- 

**So, let's imagine that you're searching for those letters that you mentioned earlier on this website. Talk me through those steps.**

*Goes to the blue section* If I want to check my claim, I go to 'Check my claim' and it would walk me through it. I've done this, but Have not gotten the up to date status of my claim. This year, I might get it. But not this year or the day before.

**So you'd expect the documentation related to your claim to be in this tool?**

Yes.

**So let's imagine that there's a location on this site that stores all documents, where would you expect to find it?**

It would be under records, but... you know... I would choose Get your Medical Records.

**Is there some verbiage you'd expect a link to have to find all documents?**

If I'm looking for my documents, I'm looking for what I submitted and the responses associated. So Medical might be one.,.. but how about 'Check your submission'

The benefit letters that I would be helpful. Another thing I notice on this page was that the payment history was complete. They'd all be there.

**Do you have any other thoughts before we move on?**

One of the things that.... And this might come up... but one of the things we have is 'Check the bank'. I used to run a VFW region and they'd ask 'how in the world - I'm changing my bank accounts - how do I make sure the VA puts my money in the right bank account. *Talks about changing bank accounts*

### --- Second task --- 

**Go ahead and log in to eBenefits.**

For the login, it's not obvious to everyone, and this page is full of text. What is the chance that our members will read? The'll see this login and will click on everything and nothing will happen.  Then there's this little itty bitty block, that we'll miss. That little block needing to be checked is not so obvious.

I recognize some of these things. I can go to disabilities to check what I have.

**Go to My Documents...**

**Looks like you have no documents...**

Yeah, but there would be a multitude of documents associated with all of those injuries!

**You'd expect to be able to see them?**

Yeah, or at least an executive summary.

**What would you do to find a document, if they were here?**

It's worthless, it's not here. It's somewhere in a profile, somewhere I wouldn't have expected. *Goes back to eBen home and locates Your VA Letters* I'll go here and it will download what I need. Very important documents that show man benefits. When I was first going at it, it took me awhile to figure this out. I did not know.

**Go back to My Documents... would you expect those letters to be found here? What would you expect to be in this tool?**

The first bit is what we talked about. The documents associated with my filing and my results. Secondly, the letters the VA are sending me, like what we just looked at. And if they're not here, maybe a reference or link to the first page, where we can get to them.

**If your documents were populating here, how would you search for what you were looking for?**

I'd be searching for names of documents that I saw on the first page.

**Click on the Document type, No records found**

**If you were to search using that document type filtering, what would you expect to be able to do, if you were searching for a specific document?**

I'd expect to see the application submitted, its status, they got it in such and such date and it's till in processing, or it's before the board.

**What do you think about searching for documents by the received date?**

Well first of all you'd have to know who was in receipt of it, the VA or me? I'd assume that the date would eb the date the VA got it.

**What do you think of the received date and being able to search by date?**

If I knew there was a document that was received in, I would put it in here. If not, I wouldn't.

**Do you think you'd know it off hand?** 

Not necessarily, no

**How many documents would you expect to see?**

All of the documents that were related to the particular issue that the VA was addressing. It could be one at a time, depending upon... like if you wanted to see a certain injury. Some injuries would be decided upon early on and you would need to see which ones were pending.

**Tell me more about seeing more documents related by injury**

Well if I have a file name, it could be VA submission in January 2005. I would know then that I submitted 16. As it would progress to 2010, there might be 8 injuries that were decided upon and then it would be all of the successive submissions and responses for ones that were still being worked. Some issues took years to be resolved.

**If the documents were showing up and you clicked on one, what would you expect to happen?**

It would open a soft copy of the document itself that I could scroll through.

**What would you want to do after finding and opening it?**

I would be using it for the information --- I could've forgotten and needed to know. It might be a document that I needed to resubmit to the VA., On my final filing I had an injury --- on this particular malady, the VA said it wasn't in the medical records. I resubmitted that it was in the records - this went back 10 years. I didn't have the original records until I found them in my store room at the 12 year point. I pulled out my medical records --- which ,when you have 27 years --- the medical records get to be about 5 inches thick. I found 9 pages that related to the injury they said weren't in my medical records. I had to scan them in and send them to the VA. They realized it was in my medical records. If you have them readily available... and I'm sure nowadays, they scan their medical records and have soft copies of it all.

**Let's say that those medical records were in this tool and the VA was saying the record wasn't there, what would that submission process look like?**

I would expect it to be a response, it could be an email. I'm counting on this page being secure. Attach any documents that we might need that would be proof or verification of the claim, and click send.

**You'd want to be able to send those documents from this page?**

That would be idea over going through a VSO or snail mail. Now here's the thing that's handy about a VSO - they have people that deal with this every day, and you can get counseling along the way. They can tell you if it looks right or doesn't look right. The person doing the application may not know the nuances.

**What would you do if you couldn't find the document you were looking for on this page?**

I'd probably go to see if I can find a hard copy somewhere. I'm getting to the point where I've had a lot of hard copies scanned and put on backup drives.

**Is there anywhere on this page that looks like you'd find documents?**

*Finds the FAQ* They don't do anything submitted by mail or hand delivered... if it's not gonna be there, but if they could put it there, it would make it a lot easier.

**In that section... 'How can I... displayed?' What do you think about this information?**

I have not made a call to the VA in a long time, but when I did call the VA, I had a mix of... the folks being polite and others where I'd be in a loop of voicemail. Of course, the VA is not alone in this, but you wind up in a do-loop, and you go to the webpage, and referred to the VA.

**Of these options, which would you prefer?**

Calling or submitting a PAR? Well I prefer calling, because it's almost instant. When you click on the PAR, it doesn't work.

### --- Post-task interview ---

**Any other thoughts?**

The VA has come a long way in 15 years. 15 years ago, there weren't easy ways to make applications too th eVA. Now the VA seems to be in sync with the active duty retiring folks.

Takeaways:
----------

-   He was looking specifically for prior submissions from his VSO, but found that the VSOs would call him with details before the site would update with them.

-   He was in the military for 20+ years, has been working with the VA for 14, and has had over 12 service-related surgeries. All 16 of his injuries were reported on an initial submission in 2005, but some took many years to get a determination on.

-   He has been using eBenefits for years, and struggles with passwords and security.

-   He would look up his status once a week until a determination was made.

-   Uploaded copies of examinations and injury changes as evidence, injuries have gotten worse with age.

-   If he wants to check documents related to his claim(s), he'd expect to find them under 'Check my claim'

-   If there was a place for all documents, he would expect to find them under Records, and says he'd expect it to be called 'Check your submission'

-   He had no documents on his page, likely due to being submitted by a VSO with another submission method, expected to see the stuff he's uploaded and VA communications. He went to Your VA Letters instead when nothing appeared.

-   When asked which documents he'd like to see, he said "I'd expect to see the application submitted, its status, they got it on such and such date and it's still in processing, or it's before the board."

-   Wasn't sure if the date was when it was submitted or when the VA looked into it -- he wouldn't use date to search and feels he wouldn't know the dates offhand, anyway.
