# P7

## Transcript

### — Warm up Q’s —

**Have you ever searched for the documents you've submitted for VA benefits and claims online?**
Yes

**What documents?**
When I first did my claim, I wanted to find my status. And once it was approved, I wanted to get a copy of it. I found records that I found off of ebenefits as well, which I wanted to make sure I had copes of.

**What kind of records?**
Medical stuff and certificates and graduation stuff that are on there.

I thought I used eBenefits. So that’s one of the things that can be a little confusing. You have retirement coming out of VFAS, then you have benefits coming out of eBenefits, and sometimes they’ll send you to another website and you wonder which one you’re logging into. They all have passwords. For older Vets like my father, who’s 81, he refuses to do any of it.

**Did you find what you were looking for?**
Yes

**How often do you search?**
In the beginning, often. I finished my retirement and used it twice a month. Now, I haven’t logged on in about 8 months and I had someone jack my account and change the address my retirement pay was going.

**Do you know if you ever used the “My Documents” feature on eBenefits?**
Yes

**That’s when you were looking for medical records and whatnot?**
Yes

**What other types of VA documents would you like to find online, related to your benefits and claims?**
Never thought about that. Um… I don’t have an answer for that right this minute. I’d have to look and see what’s out there.

**Have you submitted any other VA forms for education benefits or healthcare?**
When my children were in college, I used my VA benefits for them. So we went though that every quarter and made sure their stuff was put in. It makes it a little harder, because, even though they were my benefits, I couldn’t see and talk to them about that always because they were over 18.

With my father, I did try to find out about burials. He served 28 years and never applied for any benefits, so that’s been a challenge.

**If you were searching for your medical records, or a copy of your claim, ideal experience?**
Being able to go to the website and search in a bar, click it and go to that area.

**What are you typing in the search bar?**
I would look at My Medical Records.

**What would you do with those documents once you’ve found them?**
I’d probably save them to my portable harddrive so I know I have it. You’re always being asked for these things by various people. With the VA, there’s no way for my civilian doctor to see my VA records and vice versa. And any time you put in a claim, or my ratings change and I have to resubmit something, you guys ask for paper copies sent in despite having electric copies. You know, my year group, there was a records in st Louis that burnt down and some of my records were destroyed. If I didn’t have soft copies, I wouldn’t be able to apply for some of these.

When I sent in my medical records, you all had to convert it to digital copies.

**When you send your medical records to your private doctor, do you send a hard or soft copy?**
Both. When I got my knee replaced, we went through the hard copies. There have been other times when I was able to pull when I got shots, so I don’t have to get duplicate.

**What device?**
My laptop - dell/windows.

### — First task —

**Imagine that you’re searching for a copy of your claim or records …**
[I missed a couple minutes of this task due to not being able to see his screen]

// Goes to DD214 and then finds “Get medical records” and “benefits letters” //

Um… yeah, so, “Download VA benefits letters”

**Does it tell you anywhere on this screen what kind of letters you can find in here?**
Yeah it does kind of. It says what you can log in with up here, what types, how to download… <<basically reads the rest of the page links and headers…>>

**Navigate back to the home page, now imagine there’s a place to find all of your VA documents, where would it be?**
// clicks home breadcrumb //
I’d probably think it would be under records if it’s documents?

**What would that link look like for you?**
“Get your military documents” and when you click it, it could segregate it by medical records, service records… it would be great to have everything in one place. Now, you still have to bounce back and forth between multiple sites. And I don’t think I’ve seen one place that says “this is what you’ve used, this is what you haven’t done” — I know that they’ll give me a grave marker, I don’t know what happens with gravesites or if my wife can be with me, if I can get cremated. It would be cool to have a checklist - here’s your post service things in each age bracket. Here are things you need to look at when you’re retired-retired vs. on social security. For a retiree like me, right now I don’t use the VA for my medicine. You all are far away, so I use my Tricare and my civilian medicine. Instead of going to tricare for medicine, should I go to the VA to save money? I’d like to see it by phase of life.

**Where would you expect to find that?**
No idea, I’ve never seen that. Are you over 65 or over 70 or whatever, it can show you where your attention needs to be.

### — Second task —

[Participant could not sign on, used screenshot document instead.]

**Do you recognize this My Documents page?**
Oh yeah I recognize it, I’m not sure what the calendar things are for.

**If you were to search for your medical records, you said earlier that you’d want to type in to search, what would you search?**
So if you’re looking at it from this view, and you’ve got lots of click downs so you just scroll through it. It’s divided by your claim, your benefits, your profile, and your documents. Again, I understand this with your VA forms, that’s all fine and dandy, I still like having a search bar just in case. You never know when something doesn’t show up or is changed, you can just say ‘ok, I’ve been looking and scrolling’ …. There’s a certain level of frustration as you go through a zillion form to find the one form you’re looking for. This is very intuitive, it’s very easy.

**You described searching by typing the name, is that what you’d expect?**
I’d like to have that as a follow-up, the way this is written when you say you’re in my documents, this works, having a pull down menu when you can scroll down. The challenge is most of us don’t know the form names. If I’m looking for [document type], then I don’t know that it’s a form 28-4818, or whatever. Having a search where you can say counseling, and any document related to counseling comes up, will be good. Labelling it by form isn’t necessarily a benefit to anyone but the VA.

**If you’re searching for documents, would you be looking for one or multiple?**
Multiple typically, but I’d start with a google search. I’m looking for this army thing, and it will tell me where to go. Just because, the government has things on multiple different platforms and it’s hard to find which one it’s on.

**What do you think about searching by the date received?**
No. I don’t know any days. You still get questions like when did you leave active duty, and I can tell you the year or maybe within 3 months, but no. When someone approves something in a building or when I see it, it doesn’t mean anything to me.

**In addition to searching by document, is there another way you prefer to search?**
No, that’s kind of the way most people search for things. You know a couple of words or think you know what you’re looking to find, so you just put in a few words in search.

**How many results do you want to see at once?**
Right now, I can barely see those documents you have on the page because they’re very small. When I show things to my dad, maybe 2 on a page would be good for him. I could do 5-10, my kids 20. It gets harder. Changing the font size is a pain on every site. Most people over 60 don’t know how to do that easily.

**What would you expect to happen when you click on one of those?**
Click the PDF and see I’ve got 2 boys and my wife.

**What specifically would you see?**
I’d see the PDF.

So you’ve got all these claim decision requests, which is weird. And In Progress, which is fascinating. I’m always interested in why there’d be so many of them, rather than all of them in one place. Here’s a total packet instead of each individual one.

So for example, my 214s, I transitioned between national guard and active duty several times. I’d love to have all of my service in one document. I have to pull 4 different 214s to get my metals and campaigns right. Same with disabilities, you get one with 10%, 20%, 35% — you want one thing that says you’re 95% disabled, and here’s the summary of all of your stuff and whether or not it’s temporary or permanent. It’s easy to get confused when there are so many documents.

My claims are all done at this point in time - I’d like to have a document that says all of the things as a summary

Names of documents are not helpful, the only way to know what these are are to open them.

**What do you think Correspondence means?**
I have no idea - it could be a zillion things. If it’s correspondence related to claim or educational benefits, give me a hint. If you’ve been doing this awhile, the date doesn’t mean anything. I might be able to narrow it down by year.

**What do you think Medical Opinion means?**
No idea if that’s test results…  // the document name helps him understand what the category means //

If you’re looking for medical stuff and you’re trying to another claim for a broken ankle…for my civilian medical, they’ll say “blood panel tests” or “test results - ankle” and when you click on it, it will give you all of the blood panel tests that the electronic records have been going. One of the things that it does is compare records over time. It helps see the total picture.

**How does the civilian site compare to what we’re seeing here?**
It’s … so there’s medical records it will show you, y’know, here’s your blood panel or shots record. So when I got a flu shot, it updates my “shot record” - it’s just nice to categorize them. It will have all of my wellness exams listed, year by year.

**If you weren’t able to find a document in that table, what would your next steps be?**
Well, I would see if it’s somewhere else. Look at the FAQ - ‘what if it’s not here?’ …

This whole screen section should be at the top as well - yeah like a link to it. I’m thinking of an older Vet who has 30 years of records.

**Of these two options for getting your documents, which one would you prefer?**
You can submit a PAR, I don’t even know what that means. I’d call because I don’t know what that means.

**Do you prefer calling?**
Typically you call, because you get better responses through call. VA doesn’t really do chat or email - they’re not normally helpful, just frustrating. The default is to call. I don’t know what a PAR would do for you…

**Do you have any thoughts about either of these FAQs?**
They seem like they’re saying really similar things… so you’re telling me that you don’t want to mail or fax, only upload. If I send them in by mail, fax, or hand deliver, does it mean that they’re not valid? There are some things about the government and their rules, where it won’t count if it’s not done a certain way. If it doesn’t appear on the site, then it appears to me that it’s not a valid thing. My 81 year old dad could not upload a document if he had to.


### — Post-task interview —

**Any additional thoughts?**
No - just making the VA system easier is good.

**Any questions?**
No

## Takeaways:

-   When asked about which of his uploaded documents he had searched for in the past, he stated that he wanted to find his claim’s status. He also said he looked for medical records on eBenefits as well.
    
-   Notes that all of the pages and passwords are confusing, and he has been locked out of his eBenefits account after someone changed the address for his payments.
    
-   To find his uploaded documents, he said he would use search with the keyword ‘My Medical Records’
    
-   After finding his documents, he would save them to a portable harddrive, since he’s asked for these things by different parties often. He was impacted by the St Louis records fire, so he has scanned and kept his hard copies as well.
    
-   Thinks that all documents would be found under Records, and could be called “Get your military documents,” which could be segregated by medical records, service records, etc.
    
-   He is interested in a phase-of-life post-service checklist of benefits and activities that are relevant to him at his age and circumstance.
    
-   Would like having a search bar to filter down documents, because he does not know the names/numbers of the forms and would find it easier to type in a keyword
    
-   Feels there should be few results per page, saying he could handle 5-10
    
-   Believes that the document types should be rolled up, and that it’s confusing when there are duplicates.
    
-   Didn’t seem to find the second column of the table helpful (e.g. what do “Correspondence” and “Medical Opinion” mean?)
    
-   Is concerned that mailed/faxed/hand-delivered documentation may not be valid and would be troubled if the document did not show here.
