# P8

## Transcript:

### — Warm-up Q’s —

**Have you ever searched for the documents you've submitted for VA benefits and claims online?**
Yes

**What documents were you looking for?**
Uhm, documents that pertain to my claim. I think I had to upload my DD214 and then I had to make sure it was loaded. Dr statements.

**What do you mean make sure they were uploaded?**
Yeah, I would scan them in and then in eBenefits you can upload the document up.

**You wanted to make sure they were successful?**
Correct. Theres only a limited amount. There’s been times I’ve had six pages of a letter to upload and it was too big. I had to double-check to make sure it fit the file size.

**Did you do all that in the same place?**
Yes.

**Did you find what you were looking for?**
Yes

**How often do you search for these types of documents?**
Uhm, let me see… I probably have to do it three times a year.

**Is it all for the same reason?**
Not really. Usually it’s for a doctor I saw in community care. For instance, I saw a doctor because my nose was broken. I tried to upload the documents up to my primary care doctor so she could see the surgery was done, but the file was too big.

**Did it say it was too big?**
Yes. It said it was too big.

**Do you remember where on eBenefits you did all this?**
I think on the first page, or you click “Documents” and then it says “upload”. And there’s a button that says “Find file” and then you upload it. It’s pretty simple.

**Have you ever used the My Documents tool on eBenefits?**
Yes

**Can you describe to me a specific time recently that you have used it?**
Yup! When I had surgery on my nose. That would have been last week when I tried to upload that file to my primary care doctor.

**What was the purpose of uploading these?**
So she [the doctor] knows I had surgery and any complications. VA was paying for it, so *laughs*

**What types of VA documents relating to your specific benefits and/or claims would you be interested in finding online?**
Uhm, I don’t personally see anything that’s missing. I’ve never said, “Oh, that’s missing from there. Or I wish I could do that”. The file size is the only thing I run into.

**If you were searching for [documents the participant named], what would that experience look like for you?**
Oh, I think I could go through My Documents and search for it there. I haven’t had to look for it because I have it. I would go through My Documents.

**What would you do with these documents once you found them online?**
Save it.

**To a folder on your desktop?**
Yeah. Usually the only other time I’d need my DD214 would be for my VA home loan.

**What type of device would you use to search for VA-related documents? (if needed: mobile device, desktop, tablet, etc.)**
Computer. Laptop.

**Windows?**
Yup.

### — First task —

// The participant uses Microsoft Edge //

**Let’s imagine that you’re searching for VA-related documents like the ones you mentioned earlier. Talk me through what your steps would be to find those documents starting from this screen.**
I would log in on My HealtheVet. I guess I do have a DSN, but I’m not sure about that. Normally if I log in, I have two logins: one for My HealtheVet and one for eBenefits. It’s confusing on the passwords. My eBenefits makes you change it every 3 months. I don’t have to go in there except to print out a letter. Saying your percentage or commissary letter.

// Participant can’t sign in //

**Why would you log in first?**
Well, so if I’m in My HealtheVet, I do go into that site a lot mostly to see what the doctors have written and to do secure messaging. I go into My HealtheVet quite a bit. On eBenefits I go in there to print out a letter or find a document. I don’t go into eBenefits that often. I do go in once in a while if I don’t see the payment post in my account to see if I’m gonna get paid. For example, the VA paid on the day they were supposed to pay but it posted on the same day. So, I had to go into my payment history to see if I wasn’t going to get a payment. But I would go into the payment history there.

Benefit letters would be one I would go into. Change of address.

**Let’s imagine you’re searching for VA-related documents you mentioned earlier.**
Uhm, if I’m looking for a document? Well, it says here the DD214 but it says your military records. I don’t know what that means, but it says DD214. If I needed my DD214, I’d go there. Here’s one that says VA medical records. So, depending it would be one of those two.

**What do you think about those being separate?**
I think it’s great because they are separate. I could see where some Veterans would get confused. If it happened on active duty or if it’s a VA medical record. It wouldn’t be confusing to me because I know the difference.

**What would you expect the link to say if you were looking for documents related to your claim?**
Upload evidence… probably just “claim documents”.

**Where would you expect that to be?**
Under disability.

**Now imagine there’s a location on this site that stores your VA documents. Talk me through where you’d expect to find that tool.**
I would say, “VA documents”.

**Where would you expect to find that?**
Uh, “Records”

### — Second task —

**Now we’re going to take a look at a tool that allows Veterans access to VA-related documents. Go ahead and navigate to eBenefits.**

// Participant navigates to eBenefits //

**Go ahead and show me how you would find [one of the documents mentioned earlier]. Talk me through what you’re thinking as you search.**
All the security stuff for this is awesome!

I want a document, so I go to “My Documents”. But if I wanted my VA letter I could just download my VA letter. Let me go into My Documents. I guess it populates the popular side

**What do you mean?**
What everyone uses. So here would be everything I uploaded for my claim. It just says “Document.pdf” That’s probably just what I did. So this is everything I sent them

**What do you think about that?**
That’s fine, as long as I can find it.

**Did that do what you expected when you clicked on the link?**
Yeah

What I probably should have done, is I should have put what it was. Instead of correspondence.

**Do you think you put “Correspondence” there as the Document Type?**
I think it gave me the choice and I chose that.

**What would your path be to find a document?**
I’d probably have to go through every single one. If someone has an in-depth claim that would be difficult. For me I could go through this and find it, but what is it 25 documents? Depends on their internet too. If one is pretty big… let me see what this one says… it could take forever. This must have been a mental health that I filled out. See, I wouldn’t even know that. It just said “Medical treatment record”

**What would you expect it to say?**
Oh, gosh. Let me look at that and see what the document is actually called. This one says something, a letter that a C&P exam was done in Prescott Arizona and says I’m unemployable. This one should have been called C&P exam Arizona. Now it’s just listed as a government record.

**Would you want to name these things yourself?**
Yeah.

**Is there a different way you’d prefer to search for documents?**
Oh yeah, there isn’t a search is there? Maybe a search button, search by date, search by document type. I don’t know if a file name would make a difference. I guess you can search by document type or date. I guess you can search by that.

**What happens when you go into searching by Document Type?**
Puts it by alphabetical.

**Do you see the “Refine by” and there’s a box that says “Document Type”?**
Oh, yup! Sorry, I didn’t even see them. Maybe they should be a little color. So, yeah those are the only two types of documents. Those are great “Search by’s”. I didn’t even notice them because they look the same. It didn’t look like something I could touch.

**What do you think about searching for documents by the received date?**
I don’t see myself using it because they’re all pretty much the same month and year. I would use it if I was constantly uploading documents every month or every day. Or if my claim was big, or I was doing an addendum. Question about it, is that the date I entered it or the date you guys actually see it?

**What do you think it should be?**
The date it uploaded. 

**I think that’s what it is. Just my guess. Do you think that’s information you would know off-hand while searching for documents?**
No. Not unless someone said, “Hey on October 2014 I thought I sent you the documents” then I’d look at October, but maybe it’s the month before or after.

**How many documents would you prefer to see on each page in the table?**
Uhm, I like how it is. Ideally everything should be on the same page but that’s impossible. The way it is, is good.

**It would show 25 on this page, do you think that’s a right amount?**
I think 25 would be good.

**What would you want to do after finding the document you’re looking for?**
Print it. Either print it or save it so I could attach it to an email. That’s where I could go in to My HealtheVet and go to the messaging center. The messaging center, they need to be populated in there, I can’t just send it to anyone. So if they were populated in here then it would be easy, but if they were populated in here then they would be able to find it anyway. I guess if I wanted to email a document I could do it through here.

**Do you see a way to do that?**
No. What is all this stuff then? Oh, here we go. It’s telling me my change in direct deposit was successful. Usually I’ll get it on here, apparently, and I also get it on my Yahoo.

**What would you do if you couldn’t find the document you’re looking for?**
Go find it in my files.

**What files?**
Like I have a stack of VA documents probably about a foot tall. That.

**Is there any other page on this page that would tell you how to get documents?**
Uhm, let me see. Maybe “Work in Process”. So, the “Work in process” would still be in My Documents, but it’s telling you what’s in process. There’s no other place I’m familiar with.

**What documents would you expect to see in this site?**
Anything I’ve submitted should be here.

**So these are things you’ve submitted. Any correspondence from VA? Or is this all you?**
From the VA… I don’t know. That would be a good idea except I don’t think people would be checking it. That would be a good idea.

**What do you think about these [FAQs]?**
Telling them the frequently asked questions may include VA forms and supporting evidence. It says documents associated with benefits claims that were uploaded by you, VSO, POA, or claim agent. So if I had a VSO or POA I would see… that’s a good idea! Anything they uploaded into my account. If you have a third person working on your claim you don’t know what they’re doing. I didn’t know they could also upload. I mean, you can see what they upload.

How would you know if they were submitted by mail, faxed, or hand-delivered?? It says document that will not appear here: mail, fax, not delivered. If they’re not in here.. how would you know? Restricted for confidentiality reasons. The whole point of this is there’s so many hoops to jump through to get here, I would assume everything in here is confidential. I don’t know why they wouldn’t be able to send me anything that’s not restricted. What if I was t work and they faxed it into my work.

See again, it should say… if the VA sent me a document that was important, they should put “mailed to you” or “hand delivered”. I guess I would like to see them have a copy of that in there. I mean, everything is redundant with the military but.

**So you’d expect to see that they sent you something on this page?**
Well, up here they could say, “Claim review” and a note saying “mailed”. Hopefully there’d be a copy in there, but. I check my mail like once a week. And especially with all the problems with the mail and the mail-in voting, I’m not even sure about my mail anymore. So, yeah I would think if they sent you something it should be in here. You know, “mailed on this date” and hopefully you can click on it and see what they mailed to you.

Let me see what a privacy act request looks like. Welp, I guess we’re not looking at that!

**Would that be your first inkling before calling?**
Yeah. Oh god, I tried to call this 1-800 number once and it took me three days.

**Why?**
I don’t know, maybe because it was the end of the month. We were supposed to get a 5% raise and mine didn’t add up so I was trying to see why. But I went online, called the number, and it took 3 days to get through. It might not be that bad right now. I kept trying to go through.

### — Post-task interview —

**Do you have any additional thoughts about what we’ve looked at today?**
Nope.

**Any questions for me?**
No, not really.

## Riley’s notes:

-   She’s looked for documents relating to her claim, DD214, and medical documents through eBenefits
    
-   Searches for documents a few times a year
    
-   She would expect to find documents in separate places depending on what she’s looking for
    
-   Pretty much all her documents in the My Documents tool were “Document.pdf” under “Correspondence”, so she said she’d have to go through every document to find what she’s looking for
    
-   She said that she named every one of her uploads and thinks she was given an option when selecting “Document Type”
    
-   She doesn’t think she would know the “Received date” offhand
    
-   She didn’t see either of the “Refine by” options above the table
    
-   She would expect to be able to print out documents once opened, but she also mentioned needing to email documents to doctors sometimes
    
-   She has experienced excessive issues in the past calling VA, so her inkling was to look into the privacy act request section before considering calling for documents she couldn’t find in the table
    
-   She expects all documents to be in My Documents; if a document wasn’t uploaded online then she would expect the document there with a tag such as “mailed”, “faxed”, or “hand-delivered”
