products/health-care/appointments/projects/2024-05-medication-language-update/proposed-language.md, before:

# Medication Review - Proposed Language

The medication review language will appear on most (possibly all) scheduled appointments. It should be short, to the point,and easy to scan. Veterans will not need to read this content every time they open an appointment. It should be available as needed.


## Proposal - 05/09/2024

**Prepare for your appointment**

Bring a list of all *your medications*, including these types:  
- Prescriptions from VA and non-VA providers
- Over-the-counter medications
- Vitamins, supplements, and herbal remedies

Include the doses (amounts) you take of *each medication* and how often you take them.

Tell your provider about these things:  
- Changes in the medications you're taking *or how often you're taking them*
- Changes in how your medications affect you
- Allergies or reactions you have to medications (also called adverse drug reactions)
- Other health care you're receiving from other VA facilities or from providers outside VA

## Project Resources

Resources:
- [Content style guide](https://design.va.gov/content-style-guide/)
- [Appointments content brief](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/blob/master/products/content/content-briefs/appointments-content-brief.md)
- [Epic](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/issues/82400)
- [Audit of similar language](medication-content-audit.md)
- [Slack thread 1](https://dsva.slack.com/archives/CMNQT72LX/p1715000840929049)
- [Slack thread 2](https://dsva.slack.com/archives/C03CGTDLTFF/p1715179556504149)


## Project Notes

05/09/2024 - Initial proposal drafted by:
- Kay Lawyer
- Kristen McConnell
- Kaitlin Fink
- Danielle Thierry
- Laura Willworth
- Peter Russo
- Misty Milliron-Grant

Commit message:

Med review language proposal (#82736)
* adding proposed language changes

* Update proposed-language.md

* Update proposed-language.md

Updated add'l info trigger and added Figma example

* Update proposed-language.md

* Update proposed-language.md

* Create medication-language-locations-audit.md

* removed file

* Update proposed-language.md

* Update proposed-language.md

products/health-care/appointments/projects/2024-05-medication-language-update/proposed-language.md, after:

# Medication Review - Proposed Language

The medication review language will appear on most (possibly all) scheduled appointments. It should be short, to the point,and easy to scan. Veterans will not need to read this content every time they open an appointment. It should be available as needed.


## Proposal

**Prepare for your appointment**

[Note: other related instructions show in this section. See the Figma file below for examples in context.]

Bring a list of all your medications and anything else you need to share with your provider.

What to share with your provider [expand]

Share all medications you're taking now, including the doses (amounts) you take of each medication and how often you take them. Include these medications types:
- Prescriptions from VA and non-VA providers
- Over-the-counter medications
- Vitamins, supplements, and herbal remedies

Share anything that might help your provider work with you to make treatment decisions, including these things:
- Changes in the medications you're taking or how often you're taking them
- Changes in how your medications affect you, including any new side effects
- Any allergies or reactions you've had to your current or past medications
- Any health care you're receiving from other VA facilities or from providers outside VA

### How it appears in the UI

See examples here - [Figma](https://www.figma.com/design/zdLjBmeymTyHALf5lBzVgI/Medication-Review-Language-%7C-UAE?node-id=1-2)

## Project Resources

Resources:
- [Content style guide](https://design.va.gov/content-style-guide/)
- [Appointments content brief](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/blob/master/products/content/content-briefs/appointments-content-brief.md)
- [Epic](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/issues/82400)
- [Audit of similar language](medication-content-audit.md)
- [Slack thread 1](https://dsva.slack.com/archives/CMNQT72LX/p1715000840929049)
- [Slack thread 2](https://dsva.slack.com/archives/C03CGTDLTFF/p1715179556504149)


## Project Notes

05/09/2024 - Initial proposal drafted by:
- Kay Lawyer
- Kristen McConnell
- Kaitlin Fink
- Danielle Thierry
- Laura Willworth
- Peter Russo
- Misty Milliron-Grant

New branch created for review
