_Meeting notes and action items from Content & IA team retros._

## 9/17/19 Retro<br>

**Action Items**
- Create team room in dsva slack for some back-and-forth discussions and team reminders
- Include ZH ticket links in sprint objectives doc so that we can see which tickets are included in the "definition of done" for that objective (keep objectives high level for DSVA, but add links so that it's more useful for us)

**Discussed**
- [WHAT DO WE WANT TO TRY] Can we align sprint objectives more closely to user stories? would like to be able to use ZH as a reference point but it feels like there are consistent gaps.
- [WHAT DO WE WANT TO TRY/WHAT QUESTIONS DO WE HAVE] How should we be communicating in slack?

**Not Discussed** *maybe pick up next retro?*
- [WHAT WENT WELL] Feeling more integrated and included with other VSP teams now that we have a PM
- [WHAT WENT WELL/WHAT COULD HAVE GONE BETTER] Discuss joint C and IA onboarding, what went well, what could be improved. *(Note: this is now a Sprint 9 stretch objective)*
- [WHAT DO WE WANT TO TRY] Do we want to use Mon/Thurs standup as time to also check in on Sprint Objectives (so that Megan does less wrangling/bugging us in Slack)?
- [WHAT DO WE WANT TO TRY] There are separate VFS and VSA sprint demos, visibility in those meetings would be helpful, at least initially? Maybe?
- [WHAT QUESTIONS DO WE HAVE] do we want to formalize a breakdown of IA work? if yes, how might we do that?
- [WHAT QUESTIONS DO WE HAVE] How to prioritize VFS support issues - don't always get due dates and how do they rank against other tasks
