## Content & IA Team (VSP) Standup

_Notes in reverse chronological order._

TEMPLATE FOR COPY/PASTE<br>

## **Date:**<br>
**Updates & team questions from Megan:**<br>
**Mikki standup:**<br> 
**Peggy standup:**<br>
**Matt standup:**<br> 
**Megan standup:**<br>

## **Date:** 9/23/19<br>
**Updates & team questions from Megan:**
- eBenefits content & IA review incoming <br>

**Matt standup:** Met with Lauren first thing this morning. Convo went well, question about folder naming (reaching out to Peggy). Began inventory of vets.gov-team work. Majority of activity seems to be related to migration prep. Booz Allen team is still using vets.gov-team. <br> 
**Megan standup:** Working on readings <br>
**Mikki standup:** Was working on VHA legacy nav work, taking way longer than anticipated. Working with someone on Global UX on URL mapping work, but she is having trouble tracking everything down. (Peggy says she can help with legacy content redirects and mapping). VAOS onboarding today. <br> 
**Peggy standup:** Met with Kevin on error messaging guide. He's doing the legwork of getting the guide into the design system. He'll be finished EOD today/tomorrow, I'll take over. Going to present next Monday at weekly design sync. Almost finished my piece of UAT, need to hand that work off. Next will be Direct Deposit content review. Layla (Benefits & Memorials) has upcoming content review.<br>

## **Date:** 9/19/19<br>
**Updates & team questions from Megan:**<br>
**Megan standup:** Sprint planning yesterday, sprint starting today. Finishing eQIP. 1:1s today.<br>
**Peggy standup:** Meetings yesterday and sprint planning! Some CMS work. Trying to get on top of direct deposit content review, need date for launch. Meeting with Lauren A today re VAOS content stuff. More CMS and legacy editing.<br>
**Mikki standup:** Yesterday meetings and one onboarding session. Today, more meetings. Today am going to work on VHA legacy nav and legacy rewriting and redirect stuff.<br> 
**Matt standup:** Did a review of Lauren's proposed structure. Have a few suggestions, need to meet with Mikki to review. Then will meet with Lauren again. Look at sprint objectives to determine next steps.<br> 

## **Date:** 9/16/19<br>
**Updates & team questions from Megan:** none<br>
**Mikki standup:** Completed edits to branch for /teams/vsp, next step will be to initiate a PR. Feedback on “how to use this repo” document.<br> 
**Peggy standup:** Eqip, meetings forever<br>
**Matt standup:** CMS UAT stuff is spilling into this week. Legacy rewriting stuff. A couple more CMS changes to deal with today. Getting ready for onboarding meeting tomorrow. Editing prototype for VAOS will come.<br> 
**Megan standup:** Primarily working on the IA ROE for onboarding. Also finalizing the “how to use this repo” guidelines. <br>

## **Date:** 9/12/19<br>
**Updates & team questions from Megan:**
- Scheduling team retros
- I’m going to do Slackup earlier, is that OK? Do we want standup earlier? Do we like it at 12 pm / 3 pm for now? It looks like we’re all usually free between 12-1 pm ET on Mondays and Thursdays, and also between 1-2 pm ET on Thursdays (although is having it at different times wise? Up to us …)
- What coordination do we need to do in advance of first joint onboarding on Tuesday (for eBenefits)?

**Mikki standup:**
- Yesterday spent time in GH, many unexpected tasks. Fixing broken links in eng doc (not necessarily bc repo), helped them correct things on their files. 
- Andy L working on header/footer had suggestions for how to restructure those folders. Mikki did restructuring of that area
Got caught up on VFS support work — DIC IA needed changed. Work was done, documented! Handed to Kara. 
- Today, planning!

**Peggy standup:**
- UAT testing!! A lot of work. Met deadline last night! Logged a lot of bugs, CMS team fixed them, need to verify those fixes.
- Been attending user research sessions for VAOS. Listening in, next week I’m editing the prototype for them.

**Matt standup:**
- List of content POCs for repos are done! 
- Discovery meeting with /teams space, took info from meeting & from Nancy and built out a markdown file. That is available for review, got feedback from Mikki, do more people need to review this? What does that look like?
- How do I circulate this branch for review? 
- To whom do I circulate it? 
- What is the timeline on that?
- Best practices for repo use document, I am adding feedback


**Megan standup:**<br>
