# 2022-04-27 Daily Standup

## Attendees
- Meg Peters
- Patrick Venograd
- Lauryl Zenobi
- Christopher Froehlich
- Jonathan Nelson
- Megan Graham
- Marci McGuire

## Updates

### Jonathan
- Updated the mobile prototype to add the unauth page with the prominent log in button
- Will update the other prototype
- Going to get with Liz Lantz about documentation approach

### Meg
- Update on resources - talked to Lauren about who will be working on this.  Chris Johnston has started a thread with MHV. 
- Getting things teed up before PI planning
- Met with Shashank (Mo Studio) and talked about learn & apply vs. manage research.  
- Met with Arienne, Lexi and Jessicca.  They had a lot of questions about the Collab Cycle.  Will have other meetings to discuss.
- Also talked about messages
- Jessica and Lexi are the two designers for messages - not sure if full, time, but still good news.
- Because of PI planning, they can't attend user research next week.

### Christoper
- Scheduling a meeting with Bill, Kirk and Greg for tomorrow
- Hopefully will have a better sense of the resources they will be working with.
- Finishing up the scaffolding tool script, hopes to have in Patrick's hands prior to meeting with Barry so they can show to him. 
- If anything significant comes out of that meeting, he will update the team. 

### Patrick
- Pinged the PR reviewer for the Vets API PR and he will hopefully look into that today
- Has gotten no follow up on the MHV account creation after sending a email. Will send some additional info to requirements analyst & follow up with Barry
- Helping some other Spike teams
- Mobile is ready to start some technical discovery on RX refill.  They are gathering resources and figuring out what else they need

### Lauryl
- Did pilot for mobile research today
- Debriefs are scheduled every day for the sessions.  May need to bump that due to the PI planning.  They'll chat with them today 

### Megan
- Did pilot this morning
- Handful of meetings this afternoon
- Will run through research one more time

### Marci
  - Attended pilot session as an iPhone test participant
  - Tracking down who owns the login on VA.gov.  Samara Strauss asked in OCTO channel and determined it is the Identity team.
  - Starting to create a relationship diagram of who owns what. 
  - Meg there is a [People, Products and Systems map](https://app.mural.co/invitation/mural/departmentofveteransaffairs9999/1606314329344?sender=megpeters0505&key=68b0324d-d902-4411-9ae5-8af9cf33d105) that is ~85% up to date
  - Will schedule 1-1s with everyone to find out how she can best help them.
  - Meeting with Michelle Middaugh tomorrow (PM for VA.gov home page and Harassment Tool) to talk about how our teams' work connects
