# Team Meeting 4/18/2022

## Attendees

- Tracey Mulrooney
- Christopher Froelich
- Meg Peters
- Lauryl Zenobi
- Jonathan Nelson
- Patrick Vinograd

## Notes

- Marci
	- Finished product overview and sent to Tracey
	- Created a new workspace in ZenHub so we can customize our workflow without impacting Mo Studio's workspace
- Tracey
	- Kickoff with Mo Studio this afternoon
- Meg
	- Working on IA for Mo Studio
	- Looking at Round 2 user research
	- Design sync this morning
	- Syncing with Mikki on content
- Laurel
	- Did design sync this morning
	- Did the readout for research round one
	- She and Megan have completed the convo and research guide
	- Wants to sync up with Jonathan to see if the prototype is in a good place
	- Looking for someone to do the pilot
- Christopher
	- 10-10EZ contractors are back and working on it; no longer on his plate
	- Still working on code
	- Will look at the stuff Marci posted today
- Jonathan
	- Incorporated some of Meg's feedback into the prototype
	- Added the invisible home button back to get back to the landing page
	- Will get the pharmacy content added when it's ready
	- Looking at search messages today
- Patrick
	- Got a refactor up for the prototype
	- Resolving some test failures on the CI job
	- Will be able to tag someone for a review
	- The VAOS thing seems to be stable now
	- Will review info posted on Slack
- Research Plan Round 2
	- Conversation Guide
	- Research Plan
	- Search bar discussion
		- The page was optimized for the space, and tried to take away as much vertical space as possible.  
		- It's unclear if you're only searching messages on this page or everything, and that needs to be addressed later
		- Search was a big thing the the last research
		- We would love to get more info back about the importance of search
		- If search is moved, it will push the inbox below the fold on some devices.  They will have to look at it
	- Big questions are around Search and Messages. 
	- They will be aiming for groups that were not well represented in Round 1.
	- They are still going to look for people with cognitive disabilities like in Round 1, but it would be OK if we have fewer than the first time
	- Particularly interested in people over the age of 55
	- Secondary criteria was largely pulled from the areas that were not well covered last time
	- They are going to try to get at least 6 people to do it on their mobile device.

 ## Action Items

- [Marci] Find a time to reschedule the Thur team meeting so it doesn't conflict with another meeting
- [Jonathan] Update Pharmacy on mobile prototype
- [Jonathan] Search action underneath on Messages, right below Compose message
- [Everyone] Review the research plan & conversation guide.  If everything is good, they can send it to Shane.  Please finish reviewing by mid-day PT. If it's a small grammatical error, feel free to fix.  Otherwise send to Lauryl in Slack.
- [Everyone] Go to the [Start - Stop - Continue Mural board](https://app.mural.co/t/adhoccorporateworkspace2583/m/adhoccorporateworkspace2583/1649964941166/c4947cd6b022f3bece63ae3a6cf649723a777854?sender=u542b335a22a4ae682fe26277)and add comments.  Let Marci know if you cannot access.
