# ILER IES Report, Desk Research Findings

August 2024

## Research Goals

The goals of this document are:
- [to clarify critical terms, terminology, and background](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/blob/master/products/identity-personalization/profile/military-information/discovery-and-research/2024-ies/ILER%20Desk%20Research%202024.md#definitions)
- [to document the details and required actions from the Congressional mandates for providing ILER access to Veterans](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/blob/master/products/identity-personalization/profile/military-information/discovery-and-research/2024-ies/ILER%20Desk%20Research%202024.md#legislative-history-and-congressional-mandates)
- [to capture how Veterans would use their ILER information (use cases)](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/blob/master/products/identity-personalization/profile/military-information/discovery-and-research/2024-ies/ILER%20Desk%20Research%202024.md#veteran-use-cases)
- [to offer recommendations for action, including communications around the nature of the information](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/blob/master/products/identity-personalization/profile/military-information/discovery-and-research/2024-ies/ILER%20Desk%20Research%202024.md#recommendations)
- [to collect primary sources](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/blob/master/products/identity-personalization/profile/military-information/discovery-and-research/2024-ies/ILER%20Desk%20Research%202024.md#sources)

## Definitions

**Individual Longitudinal Exposure Record (ILER)**

In the **strict definition**, ILER means the ILER **information technology system** that gathers data from a range of VA and DoD systems to comprise a report about a service member’s deployments and exposure to toxins. Service members have no direct interaction with this system. See the GAO report linked in Sources (PAGE NUMBER?) for details.

In **practice**, ILER has often been used, both internally and in a public-facing way, to mean the output report generated by the ILER system (see IES, below). 

ILER is jointly managed by the DoD and the VA. The DoD manages the data on ILER. 

ILER was originally meant as a research tool for clinicians and epidemiologists. It was not originally meant to be accessed or used by Veterans or Service Members, but this changed due to the PACT Act. 

The generated report is an important part of all service members’ medical history. The report tracks a service member’s deployments, how these might expose the member to environmental hazard, and keeps a record of medical encounter information. It is also used by VA and DoD healthcare providers, and by epidemiologists and researchers. Perhaps most importantly. the report is used in evaluations of disability and determinations of benefits for individual Veterans. 

Basically, the goal of the ILER system is to track and monitor exposures, leading to better treatment and outcomes for Veteran health.

For an update on the roadmap and interoprability of the ILER system, please see [this update](https://www.va.gov/RAC-GWVI/meetings/Feb2023/1VARAC_DoD_Exposure_Monitoring_Wearables_ILER_4Feb23_final_sjones.pdf).

**Incident Exposure Summary (IES)**

In the **strict definition**, this is the **report** generated from this system. Service members, epidemiologists, and providers should all be able to access this document (see below). This is used in evaluations of disability and determinations of benefits. According to VEO stakeholders, VA owns an API that can generate a PDF/text version of a veteran’s ILER record. (When you see "access their ILER report", this is what this refers to.)

In **practice**, this term does not seem to be in any Veteran mental models uncovered with by formal research or by browsing discussions and documentation online. 

**Enhanced Military Information**

This is a working umbrella term. It encompasses access to reports generated by ILER, any summaries of ILER data and access to it, any future ability to edit or correct information in an ILER, and the initiative to design and develop these features.

It is also a section/card title in the Profile section of VA.gov. This section/card currently provides access to military service records and proof of Veteran status.

**Primary stakeholder**

The primary stakeholder on this initiative is the Veterans Experience Office (VEO).

It is not critical for our work here, but there are ~17 different stakeholder groups participating in ILER functional communities, including DHA Public Health, various VA offices, Armed Services, surgeon generals, and public health directorates (MCT ILER HCD Pre-Discovery Findings_20230215.pdf)

**PACT Act**

"The PACT Act expanded VA’s list of conditions for which veterans may be awarded disability benefits if there is documentation of deployment to an area where toxic exposure events occurred. (GAO PDF, p 2)

**Joint Longitudinal Viewer**

This is "a separate web application from ILER that provides DOD and VA staff (e.g., clinicians, claims benefits staff) a read-only display of a service member’s or veteran’s health data summarized from multiple integrated sources. Staff can also access ILER summary information through this application." (GAO PDF, p 3)

**Toxic Exposure Risk Activity (TERA)**
https://www.va.gov/HEALTHBENEFITS/resources/publications/10-1745_Toxic-exposed-Veterans.pdf and https://www.publichealth.va.gov/exposures/ LOOK UP FOR DETAILS

### Legislative History and Congressional Mandates

On 1 January 2021, Congress passed the National Defense Authorization Act, in which Section 9105 required that Veterans shall have access to their ILER. At the time, this was mandated as read-only access.

On 10 August 2022, the PACT Act, Section 803 stated that the VA and DoD shall coordinate to allow Veterans to update the records in their ILER “as necessary”. There was no deadline for this.

DOD and VA released an initial version of ILER (version 1.0) for staff use in October 2019. DOD and VA have subsequently released updated versions with expanded functionalities and data sources accessible through ILER.13 For example, version 1.1 expanded the number of data sources feeding into ILER, and version 1.2 added further data sources and allowed for read-only access to individuals’ ILER exposure summaries through the Joint Longitudinal Viewer. With Version 2.3, released in July 2023, ILER included all functionalities that the agencies had initially planned, which included tools for research, according to DOD and VA officials. Following this release, DOD and VA officials said they planned to continue to make enhancements to ILER and address new legislative requirements in future versions of the web application.14 As of January 2024, staff were using version 2.4 (released in October 2023), which added some of DOD’s blast overpressure data.15 Version 2.5 will be available to staff in April 2024, according to DOD officials.

## Veteran Journey

Where does your product fit into the Veteran journey? Are there moments that matter? Key moments this research touches in the Veteran journey are:

- Taking care of my health
- Aging

## OCTO Objectives

In 2021, Congress mandated that veterans be able to view their ILER record. In 2022, as part of the PACT Act, Congress mandated that veterans be able to update this record. This desk research (and initiative) is concerned with the former.

As a result, the goal for OCTO is to design, develop, and deliver a way for Veterans to view and/or download their personal record of exposures during their service in a user-centered way. To meet this goal most effectively, the work here should focus on maximizing:
- findability
- relevance to the Veteran
- familiar context and language
- clarity on what the user should do to access/download
- clarity on what the user will access/download
- clarity on what the user can do with the access/downloaded file
- improve the readability of what we can provide (ILER reports can be very long and complicated)

These objectives apply at any stage from **Starting Up** through **Aging**.

This is driven by the legislative history. Congress enacted Section 9105 on January 1, 2021, in the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA), to provide Veterans with read-only access to ILER. Congress enacted Section 803 on August 10, 2022, as part of the PACT Act. Section 803(a) provides: “The Secretary of Veterans Affairs [VA] shall coordinate with the Secretary of Defense [DoD] to provide a means for Veterans to update their records as necessary to reflect exposures to occupational or environmental hazards by such member or Veteran in the [ILER].” Section 803(b)(1) provides that to update a record under subsection (a), a Veteran shall provide such evidence as VA considers necessary. Section 803(b)(2) requires VA to promulgate a regulation defining the “evidence considered necessary.”

It is important to note that this does not specify _where_ or _by when_ should this information be made available to Veterans.

Metrics to monitor after deployment of this feature might include:
- usage metrics showing Veterans accessing [this information](https://va-gov.domo.com/auth/index?redirectUrl=%2Fpage%2F1834995012%3FuserId%3D66061986)
- a reduction in time evaluating Veteran diabilities
- more efficient access to health care for Veterans in issues related to exposure
- better medical outcomes for Veterans facing issues related to exposure

## Veteran Use Cases

According to (MCT ILER HCD Pre-Discovery Findings_20230215.pdf), the four main levels of ILER use cases are:
1) A Veteran or Service Member themselves seeking an understanding of their own exposures
2) Healthcare providers in a clinical setting supporting the treatment of a Veteran or Service Member
3) Claims agents in support of adjudication
4) Researchers and epidemiologists looking to identify trends and mitigations

Use case 1 is directly within scope of this work, to informs both placement on VA.gov and how we communicate the value of the download prior to offering the download. Use case 2 is relevant and can inform our findings in that Veterans may need the ILER report available either to educate VA staff and providers of the ILER report's relevance, or to use the ILER report to help design treatment planning. In support of the latter: according to the GAO report, "VBA requires claims benefits staff to use ILER in processing veterans’ disability claims.” 

Previous researh has outlined the [mental models of Veterans related to military information](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/blob/master/products/identity-personalization/profile/Research/2024-01-military-info-enhancement-mvp/research-findings.md). This research can inform how we move forward with designing content and context that might set up Veterans for more success when accessing their ILER.

ILER was built primarily for environmental researchers and clinicians, making it very difficult for the layman to fully comprehend.

- The level of detail in ILER is not, in its entirety, relevant to Veterans and yields a very long record.
- The current level of detail in ILER creates a communication risk and potential for fear mongering; Veterans will struggle to be able to
identify the salient information.

What does this tell us?

Though access to this report is mandated by Congress, and is an important tool to help Veterans make sense of their experience, and seek to claim benefits and treatments to which they are due, it might be irresponsible or harmful to provide access without strong warnings about the difficult presentation and possible unreliability of the data. 

## Key findings

For a first gloss of understanding Veterans mental models and needs for detailed information of their service, and how this relates to what tasks they need to achieve on VA.gov, we will start with [existing research work](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/blob/master/products/identity-personalization/profile/military-information/discovery-and-research/2023-military-info-discovery/findings-summary.md) conducted for the Enhanced Military Information product. In addition, we will rely on pre-discovery and discovery work conducted for the Veterans Experience Office (VEO) and by the AE team previously (see SECTION BELOW).

1. Veterans and VA staff are used to using “ILER” to refer to the report; in none of the postings from Veterans, do they use “IES”.
2. Veterans use information such as what’s included in the ILER report to get disability ratings or correct what they see as an erroneous disability ratings.
3. Veterans use information such as what’s included in the ILER report to get proper health care treatments.
4. Though there is no direct research on whether Veterans would associate “Enhanced Military Information” with the source of information relevant to health care and disability ratings, Veterans do associate certain types of military information with getting disability ratings or health care.
5. Veterans may not know the ILER report exists.
6. Veterans may not know where or how to access their ILER report.
7. When learning about their ILER report, Veterans may not know what it contains.
8. Veterans distrust the data provided in many VA reports, including the ILER report.
9. The mental models many Veterans have for the data in the ILER report does not match how it is organized, making it more difficult for the Veteran to achieve any of their goals or note which data are faulty.
10. The stakeholder (VEO) has specified that this content be available in the "military history" section of the Profile on VA.gov (see [here](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/blob/master/products/identity-personalization/profile/Research/2024-01-military-info-enhancement-mvp/research-findings.md#key-findings). This seems to override other work on the question of placement of the ILER download affordance (though this does not limit that to one location on VA.gov).

## Details of Findings

### Veterans and VA staff are used to using “ILER” to refer to the report; in none of the postings from Veterans, do they use “IES”
   
In publications, public-facing web sites, and in online discussions and message boards, the usage of “ILER” denotes both the ILER system and the report generated by the ILER system. Though the technically correct name for the generated report would be IES, we strongly suggest using the term that matches expectations of users. Perhaps in the future, more education for users could counter this.

In fact, some web searches (such as for “help me find me IES VA”) return web pages that refer to “The Individual Longitudinal Exposure Record”).

In practical terms, this means that headers, download link titles, and other elements on VA.gov should user ILER (as in “Click here to download your ILER report”).

### Veterans use information such as what’s included in the ILER report to get disability ratings or correct what they see as an erroneous disability ratings.

[Previous AE research](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/blob/master/products/identity-personalization/profile/Research/2024-01-military-info-enhancement-mvp/research-findings.md) shows that Veterans use data from their MOS (such that as appears in DD214 forms) to gain disability benefits. Similary, the few Reddit discussions (LINK TO SOURCES) show Veterans asking about this process.

As the ILER report includes similar (or some of the same) information, we are confident in drawing the same conclusion. At least, Veterans _should_ be able to use their ILER report to get or correct a disability rating. 

### Veterans use information such as what’s included in the ILER report to get proper health care treatments.

The same research and other Reddit posts showed that Veterans also use data pulled from VADIR their MOS history to gain proper health care. As with the previous finding, we are fairly confident that we can generalize from VADIR data to ILER data. 

This highlights the issues around how to describe what downloading the ILER will help the Veteran in this task.

### Though there is no direct research on whether Veterans would associate “Enhanced Military Information” with the source of information relevant to health care and disability ratings, Veterans do associate certain types of military information with getting disability ratings or health care.

However, as summarized in [past Profile research](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/blob/master/products/identity-personalization/profile/Research/2024-01-military-info-enhancement-mvp/research-findings.md), the VEO has asked the VA.gov Profile team to enhance the military history section of the profile in order to aid veterans applying for benefits (especially disability claims). See Recommendations for possible design mitigations of this ambiguity in the content.

### Veterans may not know the ILER report exists.

Though some Veterans may know about MOS, they may not know about ILER, as evidenced in popular Reddit posts:

> "This guy had access to files I had never seen before. It shocked me what he was able to find and print up for me."
(https://www.reddit.com/r/VeteransBenefits/comments/16jyzly/claim_appointment_i_had_today_shook_me_with_the/)

>"I’m just finding out about it so it kinda blew my mind (https://www.reddit.com/r/VeteransBenefits/comments/16jyzly/claim_appointment_i_had_today_shook_me_with_the/)

> "No one in the VA that I have been reaching out to or directed to knows how to get this document for me."(https://www.reddit.com/r/VeteransBenefits/comments/18uzilj/iler_report/).

In addition, in stakeholder workshops, members of the VEO stated they aren’t sure how veterans learned about ILER access.

### Veterans may not know where or how to access their ILER report.

Another issue voiced in online forums such as the above is difficulty in locating access to an ILER report, even after contacting VA staff.

 > “If no one knows how to get a copy of someone's ILER, I will keep trying and will update this thread if I ever figure out how. Thank you for your time and help.” (https://www.reddit.com/r/VeteransBenefits/comments/14u8qt9/question_how_does_someone_get_a_copy_of_their/)

Some found access through working with VSOs.

### When learning about their ILER report, Veterans may not know what it contains.

[Previous research on Enhanced Military Information](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/blob/master/products/identity-personalization/profile/Research/2024-01-military-info-enhancement-mvp/research-findings.md) has shown that Veterans’s metal model of exposure (the goal of the ILER report) is location first, rather than MOS. Even if Veterans could easily locate and download their ILER report, parsing out what data are in it and how to apply that to their needs (disability or medical care) would not be obvious.


### Veterans distrust the data provided in many VA reports, including the ILER report.

In the previous EMI research, high in the [key findings](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/blob/master/products/identity-personalization/profile/Research/2024-01-military-info-enhancement-mvp/research-findings.md#key-findings) was that deployments and dates were not trustworthy in VADIR data. This data is what goes into a Veteran’s ILER report; therefore should assume ILER report data is likely to contain errors.

Reddit posts on ILER reports are few, but we can see comments on the topic:

> “I was able to get my VFW VSO to get it for me. I'm glad I did because it is incorrect. It has my Deployment dates wrong and shows my trips after service when I was a contractor. Additionally, it says I have served in the ARMY, Air Force, and am now in the Navy.” (https://www.reddit.com/r/VeteransBenefits/comments/14u8qt9/comment/kgn6qro/?utm_source=share&utm_medium=web3x&utm_name=web3xcss&utm_term=1&utm_content=share_button)

### The mental models many Veterans have for the data in the ILER report does not match how it is organized, making it more difficult for the Veteran to achieve any of their goals or note which data are faulty.

“VA leadership -- which includes Trisha Dang and Melissa Rebstock, among others -- have expressed concerns around the intelligibility of ILER data. These documents can run into hundreds of pages and interpreting the data within them isn’t a straightforward task.” (https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/blob/master/products/identity-personalization/profile/military-information/2023-enhanced-military-information/enhanced-military-info-iler-read-access.md#what-are-the-shortcomings-of-granting-read-access-to-iler)


## Recommendations
(Please note that these are ordered roughly in progression of small to large, and in terms of dependency.)

### Use “ILER IES record” in communications and UI, with context

Why: Though “IES” is the technically correct (“the best kind of correct”) term for the report of an individual Veteran can download from the ILER system, we note that all sorts of public communications and public comments by Veterans demonstrate that the common term for the report is “ILER”. By using "ILER IES report", we can use the commonly identifiable "ILER" and the correct information, in a phrase that is both technically correct and recognizable. 

If possible, on first reference, use "Incident Exposure Summary (IES)". Subsequent uses can be simply "IES".

### Realign with stakeholders

Check back in with VEO and stakeholders if their requirements previously stated for MOS data is relevant here: [“Recently, VEO asked the VA.gov Profile team to enhance the military history section of the profile in order to aid veterans applying for benefits (especially disability claims).”](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/blob/master/products/identity-personalization/profile/Research/2024-01-military-info-enhancement-mvp/research-findings.md#key-findings)

### Research how to highlight this new feature

Why: As shown in the Key Findings, many Veterans (and VSOs) are not aware that the ILER exists, or what it is, or how to get it, or how it can help Veterans in critical wellness tasks. 

The VADS does have a [tag for "new" items](https://design.va.gov/components/tag). However, for accessibility and other technical reasons, such as that this tag is designed for other use semantically, we cannot recommend this as a solution. 

Previous research has shown that [navigating to tasks was challenging for participants who weren’t sure how their task was categorized](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/blob/master/products/information-architecture/research-and-analytics/2023-generative-logged-in-research/2023-logged-in-user-interviews/findings-summary.md#navigating-to-tasks-was-challenging-for-participants-who-werent-sure-how-their-task-was-categorized-within-va). The design implications for this are clear: we need to consider how to call attention to this new and important feature in ways that overcome the difficulty users have shown in finding things.

### Research whether or how to include ILER "news" and a link to more information in My VA

Why: My VA is the page users see when they log in and go to a personalized pathway on VA.gov. My VA has been called “where things that require attention live”. Since the ILER download is a new capability for Veterans, and one that can play an important role in getting access to critical services, it seems there would be value in placing awareness of and links to this new capability in multiple places a Veteran might see it.

The same issue on how to highlight the newness of this feature in My VA is the same as on the VA Profile. This is bolstered by the research cited immediately above.

### Draft and validate verbiage for initial link taking user to in-depth ILER info and link to download

Why: We know from research that many Veterans and VSOs are not familiar with what ILER is, what it is used for, and what to do with it. Also, we want some way to highlight/draw focus for the user to this new and important feature.

The hypothesis is that simply putting a link that matches the style and length of existing content within a card will not help users note the new feature, understand it, or move forward on that path.

As above, we discovered that the VADS tag is not a workable solution, so we are relying on text and text styles.

Recommend collaboration with CAIA and stakeholders. What we learn here could be rolled into the [VA.gov content style guide](https://design.va.gov/content-style-guide/).


### ILER link from VA.gov Profile Hub goes to new section in Military Information

Why: If the VEO request/requirement for MSO data (that it is placed within the Military Information card on the Profile) holds for ILER, this is a hard constraint that we should adhere to. 

The Military information page does contain a section where the Veteran can request their military records. This might make a good pattern to duplicate for a new section with text explaining the content and context of ILER, and a download link, as well as information about known data issues and how to contact someone to correct these issues.

### Veterans already distrust the information, and for good reason: ILER data may be inaccurate and incomplete

link to Pam's readout slide



### New section in Military Information must contain:
- that this is new
- what ILER is (and isn't)
- what ILER can be used for: disability ratings and health care
- how to read the data contained in the ILER
- that the VA is aware there are errors in the data
- whom to contact and links to how to contact in order to rectify these errors

VA Profile can work with stakeholders and CAIA to draft this content.

### Research whether the "Military information" card/product meets the mental model for Veterans

Why: Previous research has shown that many Veterans, VSOs, and even VA staff may not know what an ILER is, where to locate it, or how and why to use it. It's an open question whether Veterans accessing their Profile on VA.gov would think of looking in a section inside their Profile (where settings usually live) or inside a card labeled "Military information" to find something related to disability and health benefits. 

This could be done either by UAT or first-click testing to validate whether this is a pressing issue. Card sorts with Veterans could help us learn how better to organize and name this information. 

Another research question related to this is whether there are technical constraints in how information is organized and labeled on the Profile.

# Sources

ILER Fact Sheet (https://www.docs.lms.va.gov/LMSDocs/Docs/131531/ILERFactSheet_508Certified.pdf)

ILER article pre-2019 (https://www.publichealth.va.gov/exposures/publications/military-exposures/meyh-1/ILER.asp)

February 2023 update report (PDF): https://www.va.gov/RAC-GWVI/meetings/Feb2023/1VARAC_DoD_Exposure_Monitoring_Wearables_ILER_4Feb23_final_sjones.pdf

GAO Report 
MILITARY HEALTH CARE
DOD and VA Could Benefit from More Information on
Staff Use of Military Toxic Exposure Records
May 2024
https://www.gao.gov/assets/gao-24-106423.pdf

MURAL: 

TERA: https://myarmybenefits.us.army.mil/Benefit-Library/Federal-Benefits/Temporary-Early-Retirement-Authority-(TERA)?serv=122
