### Warm-up questions

Before we dig in on the site, I'd like to ask you a few questions so we get used to talking togther.

- Can you tell me a little bit about yourself? (If stuck, prompt to ask about service experience, where they live, their work)
  - Air Force, worked in finance as disbursement technician. Medically discharged in 2006 and returned to the US, started applying for benefits pretty soon after she got home. Most concerned with getting disability and service connection for her injuries, and education benefits because she wanted to go back to school. 
  - Used Voc Rehab to go back to school.
  - In Germany was on a really big base, then came home to a very small home town. "Everything was very close by, I could walk to the doctor [on base] compared to driving 1.5 hours each way, to go to the doctor. The VA is very old, it still is, compared to…I was the youngest person [at the VA] most of the time….I was told oh the VA will take care of. That didn't happen it still hasn't happened. Very chaotic. Took forever to get any benefits to begin with. It took 9.5 months for a claim…it was a rough transition coming back. The community wasn't very welcoming, like I thought they would be. I was doing a lot of isolating…the reception I thought I would get, I wasn't getting. And the VA was just very unprepared for everything."
- How do you access your benefits? Do you use any online services to manage them? What was that experience like?
  - I go on MHV a lot, that's what I use the most probably to communiate with my doctors. I have recently been trying to use eBen to get information to very service connectin for some things, and I find it very hard tow rok with.
- Are you familiar with Vocational Rehabilitation and Employment services through the VA? Are you using those benefits? Do you plan to use those benefits in the future?
  - used VR&E for her education benefits

### Getting situated on Vets.gov

- Have you ever used Vets.gov before?
- When you have questions about your VA benefits, where do you go to find information?
  - Has used Vets.gov "applying for jobs and other benefits, and honestly didn't find that very helpful. The system I was using…it was slow, it didn't seem to maneuver the way I wanted it to…it's been al ittel while isnce I've used it." 
  - "eBen is supposed to talk to all the other systems, and that doesn't happne."
  - "I had to give up, because I kept trying the process and tyring it and it wasn't going anywehre. In the end I gave up because I was able to get the information through MHV." Needed to verify service connection for PTSD. Didn't want her medical records and all that information included in what she needed to prove service connection for.

### Finding out your eligibility

Prototype: https://adhoc.invisionapp.com/share/D3G2XXQYAUG#/screens/281857791_Eligibility

_Prototype page 1_

- What's the purpose of this page? Is this aligned with your understanding of Voc Rehab?
  - _reads, scrolls_ "For starters, the one thing I can see…being confusing, it's going chapter 31, chapter 36, chapter 31 again…which one is it? A lot of people don't know which one it is. And now throw in the Forever GI Bill and it just makes…a lot of confusion. Voc Rehab, I found to be very confusing in general."
  - "It seems like for some folks, you get so many benefits, then in other places I know people who were going through and getting a full PhD with it. It seems like Voc Rehab is supposed to be a set amount of time…my experience with Voc Rehab was nothing short of a nightmare. When it worked it was great, [but those times were few and far between]."
  - "I found that the counselors don't know the program that well, and they're the subject matter experts or they should be. It would be helpful….if they were more knowledgeable and know what they're talking about and be more fair, but if they could also be not judgemental to their Veterans. Voc Rehab is supposed to be pro-veteran…be helpful of the Veteran and take time to see where the Vetran is coming from, instead of judging them on certain things in that Veteran's background. And that's hwat happened to me."
  - "I got through it, but honestly it was just like, please let Voc Rehab do the right thing this time."
  - "I had one, two three four different VR counselors in four years. That by itself gets confusing because that's a lot of different players int he game….I started doing VR through…on the job apprenticeship type of thing. Then my VR counselor decided it wasn't working out…I'm pulling your job from you you need to go back to school. [At the time] I didnt' appreciate it…I appreciate it now, but [she could have bee nmore supportive]. She was supporing DAV more than me…she allowed DAV to falisfy docuemnts. IN the end it worked otu for the better so that's one that I'll be nicer about, but if I was to grade them I'd give them a C at the most, and that's pretty ncie."
  - "Once I was in school it was easier, but at one point Ididn't get paid correctly because she went on maternity/medical leave, because she miscarried…and I'm ver sorry to hear that's what happened to her, I don't judge her for that or anything…but it was very chaotic because no-one picked up for those of us who were on her caseload."
  - "None of us wer egetting e-mails, none of us were getting phone calls, nothing. The only reaosn I found out is because I had to go to class, I had to go to the CO at the comm college…it was a small school and everybody knows each other…the CO was also the faculty sponsor for the Veterans' club on campus, and she worked with us day in and day out…had an open-door policy…that was probably the biggest support I had…very good support and helped me with a lot of things." FOund out what happened to her VR counselor through the CO, who told her the counselor was out on leave because of a miscarriage. "You can't leave your Veterans hanging, either. Especially with those of us who…that' sour income, our payments and our disability while we're tyring ot find work…that could be the difference between whether I could afford to eat that day or not, or amke rent or be homeless."
  - "The power of their pen could potentially make someone homeless or not. And they don't understand that. There's a lot of stress being a Veteran in this country. And being a disabled one is a lot more stress…this shouldn't be another [stressor]."
  - Then her VR went on extended maternity leave with another pregnancy for almost a year and at that point her caseload was distributed across the state "which made it hard, because I'm in Roanoak, the office is in Roanoke, but I have to deal with an office across the state." Paperwork for things like books, vouchers, getting classes paid for…"that wasn't terrible, it was more annoying…the straw that broke the camel's back came the day I was taking my final exam…for my hardest class which was statistics…it's the dragon…I passed the class but I wasn't sure, because that's how hard that was. I was working my tail off…every day getting tutoring fr that reason. The da of my exam I had gotten ap hone call from her right brefore I went in [to talk about VR benefits]…there's no way in hell I would have passed that exam [if I'd talked to her before it] because [she cut her benefits right then, because she'd run out.]" So she's supposed to be starting at Radford after graduating community college when this counselor cut off her benefits. They were supposed to already hve the extension in place — they'd had the paperwork but the counselor couldn't fin dit. "If you don't document it, it didn't happen, and now your lack of planning has caused me an emergency, which I don't appreciate because I have enough of that on my own…the stress of that wasn't what I needed that particular day."
  - "It's a good thing she didn't call me an hour before she did, because there's no way in hell I would have passed that exam."
  - "I pushed myself the entire 4 years I was in school. It's benefiting me now, but it wasn't easy during that time frame."
  - "That whole summer I had to [fight with the VA] to get my benefits reinstated."
  - It took a while to get her acceptance letter from Radford because moving paper across campus is slow, and her records were incomplete. Had to drive from point A to point B to hand-deliver her records. Planned to take an entire day off work to physically pick up the documents she needed, drive them across the state and deliver them. Turned out Radford had them for two weeks. 
  - Wouldn't give VA her original acceptance letter from Radford; made them make a copy and hand it over on the spot. They gave her attitude for that, and then took their time getting the benefits reinstated for Radford.
  - "you have two weeks to give me an answer, and then I'm taking this up the chain of command. I'll take it to supervisors, and then the senators. I didn't want ot do it…but if I didn't, there's no way I'd be enrolled in classes come August. W'er ein July."
  - "They got me an appointment with a VR counselor in Roanoke named Victor, and he was….jerk is too good of a word….he made me lose faith in a lot of things." 
  - "He basically reviewed myf ile and started making judgements. HE said he didn't believe I could be an effective social worker because I'd gone to counseling. Those are his exact words."
  - "I wanted to throw something, but that would have been inappropriate….I did not feel comfortable going into that meeting alone; I had somebody in the wounded warrior project with me. [victor] tried to say [her advocate] couldn't be in the meeting with her." He'd been emailing her about how he had concerns, and so did she, so the idea of the meeting was to hear both sides of concerns. "He wanted me to go through a complete psych eval, whcih I refused, because that's ridiculous." WWP advocate came up with the solution that her current counselor would write a letter, to which VR counselor agreed, but he then made her earn her benefits semester by semester. Also disallowed her ability to go back to counseling for the remainder of her time at Radford. 
  - "The only reason I could say I got through that was because I had the support of my classmates…we had a little family and a little team, we were our own support team, our own therapy team. And I had incredible support from my professors….in that time frame, I had a lot happened, including someone I served with eneded up taking his life, whcih was very stressful for me. Radford isn't easy, shouldn't be, but I had a lot going on, and I was working full time and a lot of other things. WIth him saying that, he just took a big portion of uspport for me, which could have been probelmatic. It culd have been the difference between me getting through it [ or not]. Thanfkully I'm very high functioning…but that was a lot of stress I didn't need. Not to mention it was a real insult."
  - "Part of the reasoning I was in counseling is becasue I hd t ot ake a class called counseling theories…our professor being a very good professor…she believed her students would do better if they were in counseling while studying [the subject]. Also, Virginia Tech had their doctoral of counseling students…who needed to get clinical hours…they would provide us counseling and they would get more clinical hours."
  - "I'm always open to something that will help somebody else…using my social security number saying we'd like to set up a referral for this person…" [the audio here is cutting in and out, and I'm having a hard time hearing her]…she had a referral long-standing to use counseling at the VA. 
  - "In that time frame, he did not…I took summer semester off between my junior and senior year because I had taken that class already [because she needed foot surgery and wanted recovery time] and I ended up just working through that time frame, but he did not pay for the deposit or put the voucher through [for the fall], so 10 days before classes started, they were dropped. And the whole reason for this was, my benefits had run out, and that's why the extension was necessary. The summer before we'd done [all the paperwork for the extension] he'd just never done the paperwork and put it in place. That was a real pain in the neck, to put it nicely. Pretty much from that point on he became difficult…that's when I called the WWP and then I called Senator Warner, and his office [got it resolved in 72 hours and hten called her to verify]."
  - "After I gradutaed I did apply again to see if I coul dge ta master's degree [because you're more marketable with a master's as a social worker]…and he wouldn't even give me the opportunity. "
  - For VR to be effective for a Veteran, Sarah thinks the benefits should be decided on a case-by-case basis. Could have gone on to GI Bill but didn't. Now with Forever GI Bill, she doesn't know if she has benefits and her counselor couldn't look it up for her.
  - As far as getting books and equipment, that part was "maybe a little too easy." With books & supplies they were trying to tell her to only get what she needed, but since they knew how they could be later they were trying to get as much as they could out of books & supplies benefits. "I think they could help the Veteran truly find what they want to do moreso, and be able to do it in a more supportive role for the Veteran, and then stop doing some of the stupid things like judging them for going to counseling, and making them have to earn every semester. And documenting things appropriately!"
  - Doesn't want to make VR sound horrible, because she has a four year degree she wouldnt' have been able to get otherwise, "but some of it has been a lot of extra stress I didn't need….dealing with Victor. He needs more graining…maybe some therapy. The reason I agreed to do this is because I don't want someone else to have to go through what I went through."
- What would you tell someone new to their benefits about Voc Rehab?
  - Let them know what their benefits are — if they can get GI Bill first, use GI Bill, if that can help them get the most out of it. "One of my coaches has just gotten out of the Army…and he believes he should get student loans for the first few years [of PT school] and _then_ use GI Bill." He doesn't currently qualify for VR, but he didn't know that, but nobody tells you that during your out-processing. "having something like that would help them be able to…maximize their beneifts, or know about the process. Because I didn't know that."
  - "Maybe explaining the programs such as VR, the differences [inaudible] you can get on each one, too, but just making it a more user-friendly way of doing. Describing it in more details."
- What would you do to this page (eligibility) to make it work better
  - Maybe explaining what Chapter 36 is, versus…"I can see how Ch36 and Ch31 can blur together to be the same thing."
  - "Having something that syas ch35 is this, this, this and covers this, this, this…link them to more facts…same thing with chapter 31, and what GI Bill is."
  - "I was always told that VR is ch31 is, I was never told what Ch36 is…when I got out it was all VR put together." 
  - "It looks like Ch36 is more counseling. That seems to me like it's another step in the process…does someone really need voc rehab counseling? They might think that's VR right there."
  - "It's nice that you can click on that one thing that says are you eligible for VR….saying waht they are so somebody knows right away [instead of clicking through a wizard]."
  - "Right there at the bottom, where it says if I'm still on active duty…I think that's changed sicne I got out, because that wasn't what I had when I got out….I think people need to be aware of that, and be told that when they get out they can start qualifying and start the ball rolling ahead of time."
  - "Having somebody from VR be at [a medical briefing] that could answer questions…one person maybe can do it all, but having someone who is GIB, this is what happens, rehab this is what happens, and if there's anything else, too."
- What happens if you click the green 'paply for' button?
  - "I hope it would take me somewhere." _clicks_
  - "Does somebody have an account? My next question is I don't know if I have an account. For a while I did everything through paper, through forms, so that's nice that you can prefill an application, that's great. Online i the way everyone is going now, but making sure that account is set up, having that account already set up…I'm guessing a lot of people don't have that account. I'm guessing start application may not work before you have an account set up." Make setting up an account the first step.
- What's clicking on the blue buttno goign to do?
  - It's going to make me sign in or create an accoutn right away. _clicks_
  - "It's showing an application, this is good. I guess my thinking would be, is this every step…it'd be nice if everything was already filled in, if I could do it once and it'd be linked to other things [universal application among benefits]."
  - "I guess having the account set up…linked to SSN or DOB somehow….so that you know what you're eligible."
- Is this info what you'd expect to fill out?
  - "It makes sense, the first and last name…you'd need that." _fills out info_
  - "It would be nice if [military history] was filled in, because I wonder…if you have someone who's serve da few years, it's going to be easier to fill in…but if you have someone [who ahs served multiple tours/services]…that's a lot of inputting of data."
  - "THey would have to enter all their start and stop time, if they didn't have the records…it may get to a point where it says you've filled in too many things….it'd be nice if [it could be prefilled] from their DD-214. You're going to be clicking that 'add another' [over and over]."
- Why is the form asking when they've served?
  - "It affects what benefits they might get, if they need to verify injuries or exposure."
  - "My only concern about this part, where it says if it's' working…if that would, if they're working, are thye going to use that against them? To me that means, if they're working and they're going to school for something, will [they use that against them.]" 
  - "They need to take into consideration that [the veteran] might not be working [in their desired field]."
  - "To me I think this could be left as blank, you wouldn't need to fillt his in, because…counselors could use that against them. The one I had, they would."
  - [why does VA ask] "I think their goal is to…more successful in everything that they do, and they…want to see if the Veteran is working, waht are they doing? It could be that they need assistance in their current job, or that they're working…to make ends meet between things. I had to find a PT job when I moved home. I hated my job, I was working at a call center."
- Is there any language we can improve?
  - How long have you been out? Is this a job you want to continue at, are you hoping to get something else out of it kind of thing. [a little more qualitative]
  - "I will say that part where you can save and finish later, and this part …about education, that is a good thing to have. And then listing any VA or non-VR programs…I completely agree with that, because it's only going to help them understand you better."
  - "And then obviously you need to verify if someone is qualified for benefits."
  - If someone is already receiving disability benefits, it'd be nice if this was prefiled.
  - For her it would be nice if you had dropdowns or "bullet poitns" for multiple disabilities. 
  - Office where the records are located — "some people may not know where their records are located." She does because there's only one in Virginia. 
  - Instead of "currently in the hospital" should say "assigned or connected to a hospital"
  - This question is maybe because they're trying to locate someone, or trying to judge if someone is ready for voc rehab services. 
  - Contact info screen would be better at the beginning, because this info seems like it's very important info, should go with your name.
  - Re: doc upload "I see that it's helpful to upload documents…but not everybody has the ability do upload benefits." If someone's already submitted a DD-214 expects that it would be easy for VA to already have this info. "For me, because I don't have a printer or a scanner, I'd have to go somewhere to find it, and then get a flash drive to put it up…not everybody has those, is what I'm saying. That's why I keep a flash drive with all my documnts. I have it on-person at all times, so that is helpful." Hopes that this button would be able to talk to her computer to pull up documents.
  - "It's nice that you can [edit the file] if it is the wrong one."
  - "This is nice, I like this screen here…because you can go back and look at everything you've done [on the review page]." Understands the way the accordions work.
  - "One other thing I can think of…if I have to do an intake with someone, the screen I'm looking at has everything on [one screen so she can jump around to fill things in] so I don't have to stop them talking. Having something like that would be helpful in the beginning." Likes SIP throughout. 
  - Before submitting, would review everything for accuracty top to bottom, would agree to privacy policy "I would read the privacy and then I would click it" and then would submit.
  - On confirmation page, "it would be nice if you could have something in here that [tells where the nearest VR office is]" having contact info, timeline for when she could expect to hear back. When she applied, she was given no context for when next steps would happen or who to talk to.
    - She would take a screenshot of this page to make sure it goes through. Suggests a button for saving the document or printing it, with a way to verify date and time. "I would screenshot this honestly to keep a copy for me, if I couldn't print it out." Suggests a code or case number to reference her claim by. "A way to have this referenced." Would use the confirmation number as a case ID number.

* Anything else you want to share?
  * "Is there a way that I could share what my VR experience ahs been I would really love that…people need to hear these real stories, so people know."
  * "Would be nice to talk to somebody outside of Virginia, because I don't trust the folks in Virginia for obvious reasons."