# OKR Practice Workshop for VSP PMs, Sept 2019

## Goals 
- PMs have draft team missions and OKRs they can use as starting points to kick off discussions with their full teams, to riff and finalize these artifacts.
- PMs gain experience talking through mission + OKRs in a “safe space,” so they’re empowered to continue exploring these concepts and to effectively run subsequent meetings with their own teams.
- Get to know what other teams goals / missions / work are!

## Format / Structure
- 4 hr workshop with a 15 min break mid-way through
- 1 instance, all PMs required to attend

## Workshop Materials
- [Meeting announcement in Slack](https://dsva.slack.com/archives/GMX26FF9D/p1567199442010500)
- [Pre-work](https://www.perdoo.com/the-ultimate-okr-guide/)
- [Workshop deck](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/blob/master/teams/vsp/teams/leadership/workshops/okrs/VSP-PM-Workshop-setting-team-missions-and-OKRs.pptx)

---

## Findings
- I don't think anyone read the pre-work
- Participation levels were great!
- Sometimes I think folks felt they weren't on the right track and it made it hard for them to keep going
- Overall people really liked having the time together and getting to work through ideas w/their peers
- Lots of different familiarity-levels with OKRs, which made some folks catch on and get beyond descriptions of team responsibilities more quickly than others. Unsure yet if this is a pain point or not, waiting to see outcomes.
- Multiple people asked for a follow-up meeting, so we had a 1-hour follow up that was really valuable. In it, we focused on risks, big ideas, and team overlaps and I think that helped focus peoples' thoughts.
- I hypothesize that the slide w/examples and guidelines was too confusing and made it hard for people to get into the "secondary brain space" as one participant called it. Would probably try writing out simple questions w/examples of good responses on each team's slide going forward
- It got some good continued convo going in Slack, and PMs are all now having convos w/their teams about these, w/the goal for some to have OKRs drafted in the following sprint, and some in a future sprint bc they're too slammed rn.

## Participant Feedback
- We focused a lot on the specific wording of missions in the first one, tied up in granular details. Instead of “does this idea overall represent what you think your team mission is”? Spent a lot of time nit picking.
- Sometimes too much repetition / time wasted w/double explanations of concepts.
- Going over other peoples’ stuff was insightful, and hearing relationships w/other teams, and to learn about Content & IA. - - Good to learn a lot about the other teams.
- Good for personal development, learning new skills about how to be a good PM
- It broke silos
- Understanding the “why” more deeply facilitated organic collaboration (moreso than when leads simply ask 2 ppl to collaborate on xyz objective/initiative)
- Experienced person went first, so ppl can see how there are mistakes and it's ok, there will be iteration, feedback is good
- More junior people were still trying to get their head around how these work, and there’s still a propensity to make everything about doing the core job - vs this other part of your brain that you have to exercise. Asking “are we working on the right thing?” where No, or IDK is a fine answer.
- Second time, ppl got into the secondary brain space faster
- Great convos, everyone’s heads are better than one - could we all add comments/suggestions to others’ OKRs on that Google Doc esp since it’s a WiP doc? I know mine need a lot of improvement
- After Friday's fun little exercise, what do we think our next plan of action is?  Do we want to do another round of group discussions before putting in front of the team?  Are you already getting it in front of your teams?  I think it would be really beneficial to do another round of PM peer editing before the teams.  Just wanted to see what everyone else's thoughts were
- I would like to get more feedback, and make sure when I take them to the team, I'm well versed in what a good "O" is and what a solid "KR" is. Reading through the articles that were shared is great, but I think the best way to truly understand them is actually writing them and getting feedback

## Articacts
- TBD, hopefully OKR drafts for each team :)
