# Design system and forms library - Q2 - 2025



## Convert 3 experimental design components
OKR: OCTO Objective 3.3: 75% or more team members are confident they have the knowledge needed to make effective decisions.

<details>
<Summary>International Phone</Summary>
- Release Date:
- Number of users adopted component:
- [Product Outline](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/blob/master/products/design-system-forms-library/products/components/va-input-telephone/product-outline.md)

#### Description:
- The va-input-telephone component is being developed to enable support for international phone numbers across the VA.gov ecosystem.
- This enhancement is critical to improving accessibility and usability for veterans and users residing outside the United States.
- The updated component will ensure consistency, flexibility, and compliance across all platforms, including My VA Profile, VA.gov forms, and VA mobile applications.
</details>

<details>
<Summary>Search Filter</Summary>
- Release Date:
- Number of users adopted component:
- [Product Outline](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/blob/master/products/design-system-forms-library/products/components/va-search-filter/product-outline.md)

#### Description:
The Experimental Design Search filter pattern was submitted to help users filter a large volume of search results. Typically, in large libraries of content or articles.
The search filter component and pattern is being created and added to the VA Design System to increase content findability by allowing users to navigate and filter content in an easy and meaningful way to avoid information overload and reduce cognitive burden. Addresses Veteran feedback of poor findability.
</details>

<details>
<Summary>Segmented Button</Summary>
- Release Date:
- Number of users adopted component:
- [Product Outline] (https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/blob/master/products/design-system-forms-library/products/components/segmented-button/product-outline.md)
#### Description: 
The Segmented Button component is designed to help users easily switch between different views of information that are all related to the same topic or context. Our approach is based on the existing and successful Segmented Control component used in the VA Mobile Design System.

</details>


## Bring VA Health and Benefits mobile app into the Design System
OKR: OKR: OCTO Objective 3.3: 75% or more team members are confident they have the knowledge needed to make effective decisions.


### Summary>Support VFS teams by updating VA Design System Components (Q1+Q2 2025)
OKR:  OKR: OCTO Objective 3.3: 75% or more team members are confident they have the knowledge needed to make effective decisions.

#### Description
- VFS developers & designers can be confident that the design system component library, Figma and design.va.gov are up-to-date and well-maintained so I can develop new features with confidence.
Bug Fixes & Enhancements View](https://github.com/orgs/department-of-veterans-affairs/projects/1643/views/19?filterQuery=parent-issue%3Adepartment-of-veterans-affairs%2Fva.gov-team%2397905+-status%3A%22Needs+Review%22%2C%22Ready+for+work%22&sortedBy%5Bdirection%5D=asc&sortedBy%5BcolumnId%5D=185298580)

#### Closed
  - 18 Bugs
  - 2 Enhancements
  - 2 Dev Tasks
  - 3 Design Tasks
  - 5 Documentation Tasks
  - 2 Discovery Tasks 

## Address Pattern updates
OKR: 

## Use an agentic AI tool to develop two forms for review by governance to assess quality of tools
OKR: 

## Define a repeatable component, pattern, and template pipeline process
OKR: 
- Mural Link
- Confluence Link

## Reduce the number of imposter component instances in vets-website by 20% in FY25
OKR: OCTO Objective 1.1: Improve satisfaction with our web and mobile app products by 5 points.
- Converted form 21-4142 from using imposter components to web components

<details>
<Summary>Success Metrics</Summary>

### Component Usage

### Pattern usage
| Pattern               | \# of users |
| --------------------- | ----------- |
| address               | 66          |
| arn                   | 2           |
| arrayBuilder          | 16          |
| bank                  | 1           |
| checkboxGroup         | 50          |
| currency              | 13          |
| date                  | 99          |
| email                 | 56          |
| fullName              | 71          |
| number                | 8           |
| phone                 | 61          |
| radio                 | 102         |
| relationshipToVeteran | 1           |
| select                | 15          |
| ssn                   | 63          |
| text                  | 59          |
| title                 | 362         |
| yesNo                 | 142         |
| Grand Total           | 1187        |

</details>
