## Warm-up Questions - 5 minutes

  

M: Let’s start with a few questions. What experience do you have with VA.gov (or the VA mobile app)?

P13: Well, for a long time it was just through the…uhh…health benefits aspect. Uh..renewing prescriptions and things of that nature. Then when they consolidated or more tightly..uh.. Integrated the My Health…the My HealtheVet aspect into VA.gov, then I have gotten more into the VA.gov website.

  

M: Okay, and umm.. I am hearing you say that kind of the reason you got into VA.gov is for things that are healthcare-related. Is that right?

  

P13: for the most part it is. Curiosity has gotten me into VA.gov for other things. Umm…and uh..I’ve gotten further into it. But for the most part, it’s still just the healthcare.

  

M: I’m curious if you need help with something like scheduling an appointment - or something like that, where do you go for that help?

  

P13: Generally I go directly to the scheduler. Through [trails off]...or I do it prior to leaving the clinic. Which is one of my providers.

  

M: So that lets you kind of skip doing that online.

  

P13: Right.

  

M: Okay, cool. Sounds good.

### Screen sharing instructions - 5-10 minutes

  

M: [facilitates screen sharing]



  

## Tasks for Prototype 1

  

### Task 0: Messages - 5 mins

  

M: Okay looks like you have the prototype open. I want you to start by imagining that you just received this email. Go ahead and read the email text and follow the prompt.

  

P13: [Clicks view message in mock email]

M: Is this a screen you’ve seen before?

  

P13: oh, yes.

  

M: Yeah, I figured. This isn’t going to actually ask you to log in, it is just here to simulate the login experience.

  

P13: [Clicks through login modal].

  

M: I’d love to hear your thoughts and have you think out loud as you scroll around and explore.

  

P13 :[scrolls around, silently - not saying much].

  

M: Any thoughts about what you’re seeing?

  

P13: Yeah. Umm..not really.

  

P13: This makes it easier. The way VA has it now is overly complex.

  

M: mm, especially around the messaging side of things?

  

P13: what to do with the message at this point. How to move it, where to move it to, etc.

  
M: I’m curious Joseph, there was that link in your email, and that email sent you to the login screen. And that sent you to this message. I’m curious if that’s what you would expect.

  

P13: I would like it to be that way.

  

M: Okay.

  

P13: But it’s probably missing 3 steps.

  

M: Mmm..and what would those steps be?

  

P13: you would log in, you would go to messages, you would log into messages, because messages doesn’t just pop up.

  

M: So when you say you prefer it to be this way, can you tell me why?

  

P13: It is more straightforward. Smoother to get into.

  

M: That situation where you have to log in again after having already logged in?

  

P13: right.

  

M: Yeah, I”ve heard that before that’s frustrating. That makes sense.

  

### Task 1: Find x-ray - 15 mins

_Medical records > Lab and test results > locate x-ray result for scan of left ankle_

  

M: Next, imagine that you want to look at the images and read the report from your x-rays. Before you click anything, I want to hear where you might naturally start looking first?

  

P13: I’d have to go back to Medical Records I guess.

  

M: Okay, great. Feel free to go ahead and look there.

  

P13: [clicks medical records in navigation bar]. Lab and test results [scrolls down and clicks lab & test results link - gets to that list view page].

  

M: Mhmm yeah, keep clicking wherever you’d like.

  

P13: [Clicks the Ankle 3 views x-ray card successfully].

  

M: unfortunately that is just a fake link that doesn’t go anywhere, but it looks like you found the x-ray images. So I’m going to give you another task.

  

### Task 2: Make appointment - 5 mins

_Labs and tests result > Appointments_

  

- For the next task, imagine that you want to make a follow-up appointment with your doctor. Show me where you'd go to do that.

P13: [Clicks appointments in nav bar - arrives on appointments page] I’d click this “start scheduling” [points to primary action link on the page].

  
  

### Task 3: Order CPAP supplies from VA - 5 mins

_Home > Order CPAP supplies_

  

- The next task is the final one to complete with this version of the site. Please imagine you need to order CPAP supplies to help you breathe when you are sleeping. Where would you go to order those supplies?

  

P13: Let’s see… you would go to Pharmacy. [Clicks breadcrumbs to get to home page] Scrolls down to Medicatiosn and sees “refill medications” link, which sends him to MHV National Portal 

*[observer note: several links from landing page go out to the national portal and will work if the user is logged into MHV on their device - disable these links]*

M: Can you scroll around and see if there is somewhere else you’d go?

  

P13: scrolls and finds CPAP link.

  

M: Can you tell me why you thought you’d find that under medications?

  

P13: well it seems like it would be under pharmacy but its own category, like vaccines, prosthetic socks…like during Covid - it seems like that would be a killer for pharmacy.

  

M: Joseph, can you just look around here for a minute. I’m curious to hear you describe where you are right now.

  

P13: I’m still in healthcare.

  

M: Okay, still in healthcare, so still on that same site you started on?

  

P13: uh huh. You can still get to appointments and get to secure messaging. *[is on a benefit hub page, but is looking at options in the benefit hub left-nav and seeing "Secure messaging" and "refill your VA medications"]*

  

M: Okay..and would you mind clicking the back button for me a couple of times?

P13: [bBcks up to MHV landing page]

 
M: I’m curious what you would call this, how you would describe this page?

  

P13: This is the primary face page for My HealtheVet. It's the portal page I guess for healthcare.

  

M: Okay, the portal page.

  

M: Is there any other page in myhealthevet that going “home” could also be applied?

  

P13: well it would take me back to the MyVA.gov page. 

*[observer note: seems to have some familiarity with Va.gov and confusion around MHV vs. MyVA]*

  

M: I’m curious - how would you know if it is going to take you to MyVA home page or the My HealtheVet page?

  

P13: no idea

  

M: Okay.

  

P13: I would go up here to the MyVA home page. I would click that and it would go to MyVA.

  

M: Okay, got it. Do you see in the darker blue strip up top. It has one place with an icon and it says “Sally” - I’m curious what that might be, what you might expect that to be.

  

P13: That shows if she’s logged in and that it has her dropdown box. That has her specific menu in it.

M: Okay. Great. Sounds good. So, to wrap up looking at this version of the site. On a scale of 1-5, 1 = easy and 5 = difficult, how would you rate the difficulty of finding what you were looking for in that site we just explored together?

  

P13: This one’s fairly easy.

M: Okay. What number do you think you’d give it?

P13: this is a 1.5.

  

M: Okay, can you explain to me why you’d give it that rating?

P13: It’s nicely laid out. It’s intuitive. The things that are…up [brings hands close to face to communicate close-ness] or uh..available are what’s needed. And that uh…are usually things that are really uh..wanted by most Veterans I would imagine.

  

M: Okay, and why the .5?

  

P13: to be persnicketty. I mean everything can be improved upon a little bit.

  

M: yeah, absolutely. Anything here that you would recommend improving in any way?

P13: The big thing I’d have with government website..and I guess my biggest thing with the VA websites is that they are an interconnected web of not real helpful at times…they’ll take you in circles for days. And they’ll give you a whole bunch of forms and uh..I want to say regulations. Is that ..that are indecipherable to the average person. Who doesn’t have the background or the…who hasn’t been following the same thing for years. And who have no idea what they’re reading or what our’e talking about. No idea how it applies to you.

  

M: Mhmm so you’re saying everything can be improved, especially government websites.

  

P13: That’s correct.

  

-----

  

## Tasks for Prototype 2

  

Okay, I'm getting ready to share the second link with you within the Zoom chat, just like last time. And again, just like last time, when you open the link it'll look like a website but it's just a prototype so you won't see your real information on the screens. I'm sending you the link now.

  

### Task 0: Messages - 2 mins

  

M: Now we will walk through the same tasks using this version. So feel free to look around for a minute and see if there is anything different on this version.

  

P13: [mumbles the options in the navigation bar to himself]

P13: [mumbles the SM options such as reply, print, move, trash - to himself]

M: I’m sorry what did you say?

P13: oh I’m just mumbling to myself.

M: It seems like nothing is standing out as different, is that right?

P13: the light blue line - well actually just above it in the dark blue area, the VA benefits and healthcare, about VA, and find a VA location [referring to global header] and MyVA and My Healthcare. Then you have “My HealtheVet” [now reading out the health nav bar], apointmnets, messages, medications, and medical records.

  

M: Sorry, not sure I understood you. Were you saying that those things are all new on this version?

P13: I’m not sure to tell you the truth.

  
  

### Task 1: Find x-ray - 5 mins

_Medical records > Lab and test results > locate x-ray result for scan of left ankle_

  

M: So I'm going to give you the same task as last time, I want you to go and find your x-ray results.

P13: does this work? [refers to breadcrumb that says < Back to inbox].

M: Looks like it doesn’t, what made you want to click that?

P13: Just to see if it works.

M: would you expect to find your x-rays in the Inbox?

P13: no, just checking to see if you all have done your homework.

M: Where would you look next?

P13: Well, Medical records, but I can’t get there from here.

M: Why do you say that?

P13: There is no active link. [observer note: goes to landing page - how? Rewatch recording]

### Task 2: Make appointment - 5 mins

_Labs and tests result > Appointments_

M: - Now, I want you to schedule an appointment with your doctor.

P13: [Clicks appointments in navigation bar] - “start scheduling”

M: Okay

### Task 3: Order CPAP supplies from VA - 5 mins

_Home > Order CPAP supplies_

M: One final task is left: Please find where you'd order CPAP supplies (or any medical supplies).

P13: [uses breadcrumb to go back to LP and finds the CPAP link from there]

M: Let’s say you were on VA.gov and looking for burial benefits, would you expect to see that lighter blue bar on that page?

P13: yes. Well basically you’ve gone into some title, and some title would break down the title would break down the who, what, when, where, and why for that benefit. Just like you’ve done for healthcare here you would do that for each of the other benefits that VA is offering.

M: Okay, it sounds like you’d expect the blue bar to be there with potentially different links on it?

P13: Right.

M: Can you give me an example of what you’d like to see?

P13: Like the burial one.

M: Oh, okay that makes sense. That’s helpful to here.

P13: like here you have My HealtheVet and you have appointments, messages, medications, medical records. But you could have uh…Burials. And then you’d have internments, markers or headstones, payments, and….uh…perhaps honor guard.

M: Okay, great. Interesting, yeah. I’m curious in that kind of lighter blue bar where it says My HealtheVet all the way to the left - would you expect that to be something you can click on?

P13: not really, because you have the appointments, messages, medications and medical records. I expect to be able to click on one of those just to go straight to it instead of scrolling down on this page [currently on landing page, referring to the boxes on landing page being harder than clicking nav bar]. Just like you have appointments highlighted here, but I wouldn’t necessarily click on My HealtheVet. Because I’m already here.

  

M: Right, right. Okay, yeah. And then so on this version of the site I’d like you to rate again, but for this version, the ease of finding what you’re looking for. On a scale of 1-5, 1 = easy and 5 = difficult, how would you rate the difficulty of finding what you were looking for in that site we just explored together?

  

P13: This looks fairly easy. Uh…manage your VA healthcare…[scrolls down on landing page]

M: What number would you give this one?

P13: I’d give it about a 1.5

M: Okay, so just like last time. Is it the same reason or a different reason?

P13: um…I think you’re just never going to get a 1 out of it.

M: Ha, fair enough. The persnicketty factor.

P13: well, there is always room for improvement.

M: Absolutely, that’s right. So, you’ve seen these two different versions - I’m curious to get your thoughts about them.

P13: they’re really both good, but I think I like this one a little bit better {icon version}

M: Why is that?

P13: it just feels a little better

M: Okay, so nothing specific it just feels better?

P13: that’s right. The touch and go just feels better

## Interview closing questions - 5 minutes


Thank you for your patience and for going through those tasks again using this second version of the site. You can close out the web browser and stop sharing your screen. I just have a few final questions to ask you:

M: If you were talking to a friend that is also a Veteran who wanted to use these tools, how would you describe the relationship between this site and the VA.gov?  

P13: Oh lord, the problem with VA.gov is they are trying to be everything for everybody all at once. And they’re actually trying to be pretty good. And they are managing to do a good job at it. But it’s still…a bit…touch and go in places. THey uh…still have places where they have issues…like their travel pay system. Which is belongs to somebody else, but they’ll get to it. And they need to figure out how to do it themselves.


M: Okay, this makes sense. So how does this page kind of relate?

P13: this is something they’ve had created themselves as a standalone product. And they are not trying to reach out and grab it and say, hey, you’re ours, join the family. Which is fine. Uh…And they’re integrating it fairly well.

M: Okay, sounds good. Is there anything I didn't ask you about that you want to share about your experience?

P13: Your use of uh..color and your uh..graying out of clicked on items is good. And it uh…is eye catching.

M: Okay, that’s good to hear.

P13: it’s not overly done. And it’s uh…it resets once you leave the session and come back, which is good.

P13: I can’t tell if these are dropdown menus or if they would just straight take you to medical records

M: I’m going to share my screen and try to show you one more thing before we log off. Can you see my screen?

P13: yeah, I see My HealtheVet…appointments,

M: Are you seeing that there are some abbreviations?

P13: appointments, messages, meds, records.

M: Okay, so I’m curious to hear from you - these different words that are abbreviated..are these abbreviations that you’ve heard of before?

P13: oh yeah, yeah the abbreviations are familiar.

M: True for this one as well? [hovers over appt]. Is that an abbreviation you’ve used when writing or typing?

P13: Yes, I’ve used that but seldomly.
