## Background
- On desktop (mac)
- Seeing prototype A first
- Uses voice-over (thinks of herself between beginner and intermediate)

## Warm-up Questions - 5 minutes

Let’s start with a few questions... 
   
1. What experience do you have with VA.gov (or the VA mobile app)?
   
P: I use VA.gov a couple times a year to access my letters. I've used it to apply to the VRE program. And I've helped other people navigate it for some things.

2. _If receive VA health care_: Do you have experience with My HealtheVet? _If participant isn't familiar, don't help them remember, just move on_

P: I'm on it almost every week. Checking my results, finding out you know what the notes are from the dfoctors, sending emails, um, you know, asking for appointments or you know work done because I know I don't have to go there to get paperwork signed I can upload everything for the doctors, so. 

## Tasks for Prototype 1 

### Task 0: Messages - 5 mins 

Skips the first couple screens and prototype starts on the x-ray results SM screen. 

M: Now that you're landed on this page, take a second and familiarize yourself with this page and I'm just curious if you can tell me a bit about where you landed.

P: I landed on an open email inside of hte message inside of My HealtheVet.

M: How do you know you're inside My HealtheVet?

P: Because it has messages and it's from my doctor and they'll only send messages through My HealtheVet, secure messaging. I think I remember something in there about My HealtheVet towards the top. You gotta understand I was a visual person my whole life and I'm still transitioning to learning through hearing. 

### Task 1: Find x-ray - 15 mins

M: Where would you start looking first for your x-rays and report?

_P then turned on inverted colors (switched to black and white_

P:  I would go to the blue button message and then I'd probably customize my date range. And depending on how tired I am, I'd look at all results. 

M: Can you go ahead and click around to complete that task for viewing the xray and report? 

P: Um, okay. Well the message is a little confusing to me because it says look at your lab and test results and it's like, waht the hell do you mean look at them? Ususally the doctor emails me my results and says we didn't find anyhitn significant. Like my breast MRI and mammogram, they say we found no significant things, and I don't have to look because they send me a message about this. So they don't tell me to look at my imaging. 

M: Let's say you wanted to.

P: Okay, I'd navigate back up to the top. _Clicks medical records in nav bar then labs and tests (finds x-ray)_

M: I'm curious about when you navigated at the top of hte screen on the previous page. It looked like you were on medical records...

P: I got there, I got to medical records, but it brought me back to the top agbain so I had to tab all the way through to get to the medical records, which was annoying. 

P: That was actually so much easier that it was right there instead of having to go to my Blue Button. That you actually had medical records instead of the "Blue button." I don't wanna see stuff that's 25 years old; I wanna see stuff that's like the last week. If I want to search for things that happeneed to me 2 years ago, that's when I'd use the blue button. This was so much easier than going through the blue button. And actually I hve to tell you, my health app ohn my iphone connects to MHV and that's actually how I get most recent stuff because I get a notification: You have new records. 

### Task 2: Make appointment - 5 mins

P: _Clicks appointments in the nav bar; continually goes through everything inb the header before getting to content (lots of repetition and wasted time)_

P: _Clicks start scheduling button_ It was nice and easy. Much better than the My HealtheVet.

M: Why was it easier? 

P: I guess because I ususally go into messaging and then right to my doctor. I don't usually ask for appointments, they just give me appointments.

M: And you'd typically do that through secure messaging.

P: Yeah. I don't think that I've ever... I usually write to my doctor and tell them what's going on and they tell me what to do. And most of my appointments are annual and then they give me follow-up appointments. I don't usually ask for an appt. It's either bad enough that I walk in or... I guess I call (laughs). I would call my local clinic and just talk to the operator and they set me up.

### Task 3: Order CPAP supplies from VA - 5 mins 
_Home > Order CPAP supplies_

P: I would go to the medications or pharmacy. 

M: Why?

P: Because I'm assuming that I already have a, what do you call it, a prescription for a refill. Is that what you want me to do to? To refill my prescription?

M: If that is where you'd naturally go, that's helpful to see. 

P: I remember there's a medications thing up here. And I don't order supplies for anything. Anything I ask for is just a prescription and I'm assuming that supplies are a prescription.

M: If you wanted check in on travel pay, like say you had travel pay reimbursement. Can you show me how you'd do that?

P: I get my rides for free now, I don't drive anywhere. How would I do that? I don't know where it's kept. I think I went there once. I would go to "home." _Clicks home in the navbar and tabs through and gets to the correct box_

M: Can you tell me what you were thinking when you clicked home?

P: Well I've noticed that not everything is available on My HealtheVet in an easy to find manner when you're on another page and sometimes you have to go to home to find everything. 

M: When you clicked home, is this where you expected to land?

P: I know I have to go to home. For the other stuff I find if I just go to home I can find the blue button, messaging, and then find the page. 

M: If you were trying to describe to a friend where you are, what would you say?

P: I would say I'm on the main home page. But what's interesting though is when you log in, somteimes you're not there. My HealtheVet was complicated bc if you google My HealtheVet, it would go oh messaging, but it wouldn't sign you into messaging. So you'd come up to this messaging site and it'd be like, how do I log in? I want to send a message. So it wouldn't bring you where you expected to be.

M: Because where would you expect to be?

P: I would expect to be able to sign in to messaging directly. But it was this page that explained what messaging is to you.

M: If they said what home page, what would you say?

P: I'd say I was on the My HealtheVet home page which allows you to access medical records and secure messages. But it's frustrating that it wasn't accessible across the top when you were, when I was on a couple pages before this, there were like 4 buttons, and payments was not one of those choices. 

M: Would you expect payments or medical supplies to be one of those choices?

P: Yeah I would! Or to expect that they'd be grouped as a dropdown if that was possible. Because it's like, oh these are my only choices. There are only the 4 that are available to me. 

### Prototype 1 closing questions

P: I'm sending messages all the time to my doctors because I find it better than calling. Because there's no record you've even called.

M: After all of these tasks, how would you rate the difficulty?

P: The x-rays I would give it a 2 for the lab, the x-ray. I would give it a 4 for the payments and the medical supplies because I have to go home. Why would I have to go home? There was nothing telling me that home would be the place to go.

M: Why a 2?

P: Because it was under medical records and then it was right there. But for the other things there was no clue that I'd have to go home to find these other things. And that's always been ap roblem with the MHV, you don't know to go home, you don't know where to find this, why would I go home? And the only reason I knew to go there is because I've been working on My HealtheVet before. 

M: So you've learned how to navigate.

P: Yes

We're going to switch over to looking at the other version of the same site. Before we do that:
- Are these types of tasks things you've done before? Tell me more.
- I noticed that you clicked / didn't click "menu" at the top right. What would you guess that is for? If you did click it, what would you expect to see?
- How about the button or area labeled "Sally"?
- On a scale of 1-5, 1 = easy and 5 = difficult, how would you rate the difficulty of finding what you were looking for in that site we just explored together?
    - Why that rating? 
- Anything you'd like to share that I haven't asked you about?

-----

## Tasks for Prototype 2 

### Task 1: Find x-ray

P: _Immediately finds it using Medical records in nav bar_

M: What were you looking for?

P: YOu told me I was gonna be looking at my lab results and I expected to find them under Medical records.

M: What felt different if anything?

P: I don't think anything was different. 

M: Again, you're not being tested so that's good. Thank you so much. 

### Task 2: Make appointment - 5 mins

P: _Immediately finds where to schedule an appointment using Appointmnents in nav bar_

### Task 3: Order CPAP supplies from VA - 5 mins 

P: Now I know to go to home, I'm assuming unless you put a surprise in there (laughs). Oh I think it says My HealtheVet where the home tab is. 

M: What do you think would happen if you clicked that?

P: I'm assuming I'd go to the home page.

M: Which home page?

P: The My HealtheVet home page. _Clicks and when navigating home page_: It's not reading the titles; it's reading each link. It should go from title to title to title. But it's actually going to the individual tasks in every card. I thought the other one was doing it. 

M: What if anything was different about completing these tasks.

P: The first tab was My HealtheVet, not home. I think you mentioned it. You said where are you, and I said I'd go to home. And either way, I thought I was on My HealtheVet, why would that be My HealtheVet. 

M: Tell me more about that.

P: When I landed on the title for My HealtheVet, I was like is this the same as home. 

M: How would you rate the difficulty this time?

P: Well I learned where medical supplies was so I'd give it a 2 I guess. Because I know it's I go to the home which is the first title you go to. I was looking for home, but I dind't find it, so I assumed it was in the same spot. 

M: Thinking back to the My HealtheVet vs. home ...

P: I found it more confusing because I thought I was in My HealtheVet, so why would I be clicking on My HealtheVet. Did I go out of My HealtheVet? It would be helpful if it was more actions, like payment, supplies, up at the top. I know you want it to be simple but if I want to order supplies, where do I go? 

## Interview closing questions - 5 minutes

M: Now that you've seen both approaches, did you find one easier? 

P: I didn't notice any real interaction difference. Home seems to be the old way, that was a little bit more comfortable to me because it didn't change a lot, and I know to go home. When it says My HealtheVet I don't know that I would've click on it at all because I thought I still was in My HealtheVet. I don't know that i would've clicked on it to find theese other things, other than it was in the spot of the old home button.

M: Anything I haven't asked you about that you'd like to share?

P: No, I liked the medical records, it's easier than the blue button. If this really comes up this way, this is amazing. Rather than trying to go in and pull your records down like that. 

M: If you were talking to a friend that is also a Veteran who wanted to use these tools, how would you describe the relationship between this site and the VA.gov?

P: This site is much easier to use than VA.gov. Because of the way it's labeled in VA.gov, most of the people I work with have no clue where to go. I've worked with people and they're like, I'm coming here, but it's saying I have to get out and go over here. I think they wanted their letter. Their benefits and their letters and stuff, they're difficult to get here. I spent two hours with one guy I was helping just to log him in.

M: If you were talking to the same friend who wanted to find the website we're on now.

P: I'd tell him to google the single word My HealtheVet, which I think of as heal the vet. I don't know if they ever figured that out, if they did that on purpose or not. 
