## Background
Visually impaired
* Uses apple macbook & iphone 14 
* Uses voice to text on apple products - an accessibility feature 
* and use huge text sizes 
* Has a MERLIN that the VA gave him - with that I can take and put my iPhone under the Merlin and it will give me a better representation of what is going on. 

Also the Merlin does two things: 
* I can dial in my version of visual impairment and ti will color-match so that the visual impairment is the best for my particular type of eye diseases
* In a fallback mode it will do text to speech

M: Will you be using this technology in our session today? 

**P5: Will be using text to speech software embedded within the apple OS for the session today.  It's not VoiceOver - that is somewhat laborious to use. This one you touch the button and it immediately starts speaking. with VoiceOVer you have to navigate and some of the navigation can be tricky on the Mac. B/c Mac screen navigation is not linear.** 

M: If I were to ask you to rank your skill level using this software, 1 - low, medium , advanced, what would you say? 
P5: I would say on what i have today I am advanced. On VoiceOver I would say that on a scale of 10, I'm probably a 3.5 maybe? And I've been trying...I've been to the blind rehab in WACO for a few months and they taught VoiceOver down there. 
M: And you're on a mobile device today? 

**P5: On an iPhone 14 Pro Max, using Safari, the only browser anyone with a visual impairment should be using.** 

**P5: Oh I forgot to tell you - you know the three-finger double tap you can do to expand text and move things around, I use that a lot. Then followed by the text-to-speech.**

## Warm-up Questions - 5 minutes
   
1. What experience do you have with VA.gov (or the VA mobile app)?
* **P5: On the VA mobile app is the one that I use the most because it is on my iPhone. And.. you know...it has matured very nicely over the next year or two since I've been using it. IT's a little awkward...it's not as easy to use as I'd like it to be. especially when doing prescription refills and things like that. But it's good...it's okay - I am not going to complain. But like for prescriptions and things like that, there are lists of 10 and I wish I could just jump to the next page instead of scrolling all the way down. And there might be a way I'm doing that, except that I have my screen text so large I can't figure it out. Maybe I need to bump my text back down or something.** 

* **P5: I think for My HealtheVet if there were floating or dynamic navigation buttons that would help, instead of being static.** 
   
2. Do you have experience with My HealtheVet?
 * **P5: Yes, I receive healthcare. Use My HealtheVet primarily through the mobile app.** 

## Tasks for Prototype 1 (collapsed menu on mobile)

### Task 0: Messages - 5 mins 

* M: Okay looks like you have the prototype open. I want you to start by imagining that you just received this email. Go ahead and read the email text and follow the prompt.
* P5: Okay, so you want me to click the screen? 
* M: Yeah, go ahead and follow the prompt.
* P5: Oh yeah, I see the normal login for VA.gov or MyHealtheVet.
* M: So this is something you've seen before? 
* P5: Oh yeah, I use this all the time. When it first rolled out it was a BEAR, but what happened is that after a while - finally maybe you added it? But lower it says "login with apple ID" once I found that it was oh, yes yes yes. 
* M: It made all the difference?
* P5: Yes. When I log in with apple ID I don't even have to do anything, it's in my security chain on apple so the facial recognition automatically logs me in. 
* M: That totally makes sense. Are you able to kind of swipe my face away in the upper right hand corner? 

_Participant arrives on secure messaging page with message from doctor open_
- Thinking back about that email you first saw, and now landing on this page - what if anything is surprising about landing here on this page? (Or, is that what you would expect from the link in that email text?)
* P5: Okay, I am seeing my message and I can print it, move it, and of course trash speaks to itself. Then this is the date and the time and the doctor, that's good. IT's giving me the date from....to....okay..my ID...okay. 
* M: Yeah, we're just pretending that this is us [meaning Sally] 
* M: Now that you've arrived and navigated around, is this where you expected to go? 
* P5: No, I would have expected to go to something that would have given me some options like order a medications, etc. - some sort of overview. What's the expression - like a dashboard. Some sort of a dashboard. Now, the fact that it has given me a message directly - something that is pertinent - that has some value. But certainly coming to this page I would have been happy wtih it. 
* M: How would you describe where you are to a friend? 
* P5: I would say that where we are at now is indicative of the messages folder and the one we're on now is the most recent. 
* M: Gotcha. And how do you know you're on the messages section now? 
* P5: Oh, because I see the button that says "reply" right under it and the VA only has one thing that does messaging. 
  

### Task 1: Find x-ray - 15 mins
_Medical records > Lab and test results > locate x-ray result for scan of left ankle_

M: Next, imagine that you want to look at the images and read the report from your x-rays. Before you click anything, I want to hear where you might naturally start looking first? 
P5: I would look in the body of the text. 
M: What would you be looking for? 
P5: Some kind of http link or floating icon but probably that would be too expensive to produce so some kind of https link. 
M: Okay, so yeah go ahead and see if you can try to complete the task of viewing your x-ray images and report from here. And if you could just talk out loud about what you're thinking that's super helpful for me. 
P5: [scrolls around looking for something that says images underlined or an https link] Not finding any icons or links. 
M: okay, if you weren't able to find it, what would you do next? 
P5: If I couldn't find it, I would call my clinic. But calling the clinic is too difficult. When you call the Dallas clinic and push 2 they are wonderful and they'll send a message to my doctor - my primary care - and I would say hey the info is not contained in your message could you resend that? 
P5: But actually, I can't believe I'm saying that. My first response would be to reply to this message and ask for those images directly. I can't believe I didn't say that first. 
M: No, no that's super helpful. There are no right or wrong answers. 
M: Let's say there isn't a link or icon in this message body. Is there anywhere do that here? 
P5: I would maybe click this menu, but that doesn't seem right. Or try to collapse this message and see if I could find the other messages. 
M: If you scroll to the top and see the My HealtheVet up there, did you think you could do anything with that? 
P5: Umm..no, I thought I could collapse this message up there and could view my next message. 
M: When you say "collapse" what do you mean? 
P5: I mean that I want to be able to see where my other messages are. 
M: Can you tap on that My HealtheVet that we were just talking about? 
P5: Sure
M: I"m curious, where would you go to try to find the X-ray and the report? 
P5: Now that I see this, my first thought would be Medical Records. I really don't have a lot of faith in that - because I would think my Medical Records would be a summation of my medical records, not my only most recent one. So maybe my first thought would be messages, and then I would come back to this Medical Records if that doesn't work. I don't think Medical Records is indicative of my lab results. 
M: So you'd look for Messages first, and then...
P5: Yes, my first inclination would be messages and then my second choice would be Medical Records.
M: And I'm wondering if you see anything here where you would be able to find your x-rays of your left ankle? 
P5: Hmm...let's see maybe labs & test results but I don't know. I'm going to keep scrolling here for a minute [scrolls and reads out H2s as he goes along]
M: Yeah, so would there be anywhere on this page where you would actually be able to see that report? 
P5: Hmm.I'm scrolling back up here again to try to get at it here. Oh...oh my gosh okay, under lab and test results...as I expanded the page I see x-rays, but earlier when I had it zoomed higher I wasn't able to see that word. 
M: That's great that's why we're doing this. Can you go ahead and click that link to lab and test results? 
P5: Sure....[clicks link] sorry, at first I wasn't able to click that because visual problems. 

### Task 2: Make appointment - 5 mins
_Labs and tests result > Appointments_

- For the next task, imagine that you want to make a follow-up appointment with your doctor. Show me where you'd go to do that.
* P5: Oh gosh, a follow up appointment? If that's a new feature that would be great. 
* P5: [Opens mega menu] uhh..gosh this doesn't look right. There is a search bar, I could try that. 
* M: And what would you type in there? 
* P5: Appointments
[Observer note: breadcrumbs are not displaying on mobile version - also participant doesn't seem to remember the My HealtheVet menu from before]

M: [Directs the participant to the MyHealtheVet menu] 

### Task 3: CPAP supplies
M: How would you go about trying to order CPAP supplies? 
P5: I am laughing because I do use a CPAP and you have to call the prosthetics department. but boy, if I could order supplies and stuff like that here that would be amazing. 
M: Did you see a place to do that here, Joe? 
P5: I don't see prosthetics, okay, or CPAPs. It's just a matter of...you know...I've been talking rather than...uhhh I don't see anything for CPAP. Or prosthetics. Or supplies. Is it in here and I just haven't found it? 
 
 M: Well let's just pause there. 

### Prototype 1 closing questions - 2 minutes

- On a scale of 1-5, 1 = easy and 5 = difficult, how would you rate the difficulty of finding what you were looking for in that site we just explored together?
    - Why that rating? 
* P5: Well, you know once you explained it to me it wasn't difficult at all. And I think like any app, it is an adjustment until you can get into step with the design philosophy of the site. Once you understand that you'll figure out where to go. 
* M: Yeah, so if I made you give me a number, 1 being easy and 5 being hard. 
* P5: Okay, everything is like a 2. 

-----

## Tasks for Prototype 2 

### Task 0: Messages - 2 mins 

Now we will walk through the same tasks using this version.
_Participant arrives on secure messaging page with message from doctor open_

### Task 1: Find x-ray - 5 mins
_Medical records > Lab and test results > locate x-ray result for scan of left ankle_

- Find your x-ray images and report on this version of the site? Could yo utell me how you'd do that? 
- P5: The very first thing I'd do is the dashboard across the top. And I'm going to assume...
- M: And can you tell me why you went there? 
- P5: well because you told me to find my x-ray result and last time it wasn't in the email. Okay let me back up and not assume this is the same. I'd first look for a link in the emssage, but there isn't one. So I scroll up. And I assume that this would be highlighted on Messages because I'm in messages. 
- M: And what would you do next? 
- P5: Based on our previous discusion, I would go to Medical Records. That's the only option I have
- M:  What do you mean it's your only option? 
- P5: Well just what I said before that the message didn't have a link. 
- M: Gotcha
- p5: Do you want me to select it? 
- M: Yeah go ahead and do that. 
- P5: I would click the lab and test results link. and I see this result "Ankle left 3 views" 
*

### Task 2: Make appointment - 5 mins
_Labs and tests result > Appointments_

- Now, I want you to schedule an appointment with your doctor. How would you do that? 
- P5: Well I would go to appointments it's right there. And it would be nice if that is a floating dashboard. As I go through different messages and information, it's always pinned up there at the top. But floating, by that I mean being able to move this feature around on the screen wherever I want to move it out of the way. Wow that would be amazing. Does that make sense? 
- M: Gotcha. Yeah, that makes sense. 
- M: And how would you schedule an appointment ?
- P5: I would click "start scheduling" 
- M: And again, that is not enabled because it is just a prototype but that is super helpful. 
- P5: So let's say you also need to order CPAP supplies. 

### Task 3: Order CPAP supplies from VA - 5 mins 
_Home > Order CPAP supplies_

* M: Can you show me where you'd order CPAP supplies (or any medical supplies). 
* P5: Hmm...it wouldn't be here because it's not appointments.....[scans the options in nav bar] Meds - I would click meds. 
* M: Why would you go to meds? 
* P5: CPAP supplies...the closest I can think would be meds. But there is nothing that says supplies...and I can't really send a secure message over to my primary care physician - they won't order those supplies for me. 
* M: So you wanted to try medications, is there anywhere else on this website that you might try? 
* P5: [scrolls but is confused]
* M: I'm going to direct you back to that bar at the top 
* P5: yeah, the dashboard? 
* M: Yeah, that "My HealtheVet" what do you think that does? 
* P5: That's just the name of this section [clicks that]
* M: Oh, you clicked it - but obviously you didn't expect to see that be clickable. 
* P5: No, not at all. What would have made it seem like it was clickable? 
* M: Well, maybe one of those up or down arrows or something next to it, or if you would have underlined it like any other http link. But nothing about it made it seem like it would be clickable. 
  
- On a scale of 1-5, 1 = easy and 5 = difficult, how would you rate the difficulty of finding what you were looking for in that site we just explored together?
    - Why that rating? 
---P5: I would say this one was significantly easier. I would give ait at 1. 
M: And why would you give it that score? What made it easier? 
P5: It was the dashboard [referring to the nav bar].
M: And was that different from the last design? 
P5: I guess I remember missing it in the last design - there was some kind of drop-down but it wasn't this prominent. This is easier.

## Interview closing questions - 5 minutes

Thank you for your patience and for going through those tasks again using this second version of the site. You can close out the web browser and stop sharing your screen. I just have a few final questions to ask you:

M: - If you were talking to a friend that is also a Veteran and wanted to explain to them how to find this site on the web, what would you say?

P5: I'd have them download the app

M: Oh, you would. Okay, and if we could go back to the blue bar, can we go through those options and have you tell me what those are? 

P5: The first one is appointments.

M: Okay, great there is an abbreviation.

P5: Oh, I thought that "appts" was an abbreviation for appointments? 

M: Yeah, it is. 

P5: And that calendar makes that clear. 

P5: And the next one is messages.

M: Gotcha, so you'd expect that to be secure messages and things that are approved? 

P5: Yeah, exactly. [shares anecdote] 

M: Okay, and what's next? 

P5: That's meds

M: And what are meds there? 

P5: I think it's probably a replica of what I have in My HealtheVet where I can get to my approved prescriptions? 

M: And what about records? 

P5: We have a department where there are records, but I am just assuming that this would be my medical records. 

M: And quick question - I know you mentioned telehealth appointments when we started this discussion. How did you find out about that since you said it was kind of a lifesaver? 

P5: [shares story - see video for details]

