# P6
1/25/2024, 2:30pm ET
   
**M:** What experience do you have with VA.gov (or the VA mobile app)?
   
**P:** Well, I’ve been on veterans health I’m a 30% service connected disability, I use it, primarily for ordering of my medications, secure messaging through my primary care and other caregivers. And I also use the system for scheduling appts for future blood tests, etc etc.  I read the literature too by the way. I don’t use it for long kind medical information

**M:** Do you use that on VA.gov or My healtheVet?

**P:** That’s a good question because when I sign in, there’s like 3 or 4 different access points, and I have been trying to use, and it keeps coming up, the newest one that’s there, although I think I’m using ID.me lately. But, frankly, it’s al little bit confusing which one to use. Sometimes they pass you to another place where you have to enter the password again to get in. I have used other sites for other research and interest I have about faiciltes and recreational opportunities but pretty much I go tot he top one. And life would be so much easier for me if there was only one.

**M:** Yes, absolutely. I’m sorry to hear about the frustrating signing in. That’s helpful context. Thanks for answering those questions. I want to transition us to exploring the different sites together. First I want you to share your screen. Is that something you've done before?

*Participant and moderator go through screen sharing*

**M:** Great, now I can see your screen!  *Gives prototype instructions, sends prototype link*

*Participant and moderator work together to get to prototype link*

M: It looks like you have the prototype open. Before you click anything, I want you to start by imagining you received this email. What I want you to do, is go ahead and read the email text and follow the prompts. And if you could read around and tell me what you’re thinking and seeing, that’s super helpful.

P: Do I click on view message?

M: Why would you click on view message?

P: It’s just there. It’s dark. *reads text* OK. *clicks, login modal apperas* Here I am

M: Have you seen this before?

P: Apsbotey. …*missed it* I used to use MHV…incidentally sometimes the iPhone code comes up on the screen quicker than I get it on my phone

For our purposes here, you won’t have to go through that sing in process, but we’re just pretending like you would. You can go head and click ID.me and we’ll pretend like you go through that process

Participant licks

Let’s prentend like you signed into the website Take amintue and see where you’re at. Before you click on anything how would you describe where you’ve landed right now

Appear to be, but you’re covering it up *participant moves zoom controls, is moving window around but reading links on prototype. Seems confused about whether or not they are signed into the site.*

Let’s imagine that you are logged in, this is a prototype this is a fake name. How would you describe to me where you have landed?

This is the first page that I typically see although I think there, instead of messages, I believe it says secure messages, and if there is a message there’s an indication of a number where it says 1 2 or 3. Hopefully it’s only 1. And the other is under medications and it says pharmacy. On where I normally see. And then it allows me to go to the ordering of medications, online.

So just thinking back to this prototype we’re looking at, this website. We had this fake email that said view the message. Was there anything surprising about landing on this page? 

No. I would be able to find my way around. One moment where it says find a vA locations, what’s been happening, see I’ve been to Palo Alto medical foundation here but also receiving at the same time, all the different doctors and people under community care. There aren’t the places I would go to. Those don’t come up. Which I go down there, I manage to find my way t omy local community care doctor locally, because I can’t drive the distances that I used to. But no.

Why don’t you look at the page and tell me what you’re seeing on the page?

P: What I’m seeing is the basic page to find my way around, in addition, I’m seeing here X ray results, which could also be, ekg results or ultra sound or anything else, but I don’t know why it’s there. Unless I wanted to go to  it

M: Lets say you did want to, you wanted to look at your images and read the report from your X-ray. How might you start looking for that first. 

P: I would look under medical records. And *reads menu items, missed it*

M: can you show me how you’d do that on this site?

P: I would just click on medical records *clicks on menu item, medical records page loads* perfect. *scroslls down the page*

M: *missed it*

P: *reads page as scrolling*

M: If you wanted to find X-ray result, where would you go on this page

P: *scrols up* I’d go to lab and test results, I’d go right to the top. *reads description * that’s clear enough to me.

M: can you go ahead and show me what you would do?

P: Clicks lab and test results link, lands on the page, yes this would do it. *missed it* the date, that would be important because there could be multiple tests

M: that’s super helpful, thanks so much. I’m going to go ahead and say you’re able to view your lab and test results. And you wanted to make af follow up appt with your docto. Can you show me where you’d go do that?

P: I’d go back to secure messaging. Clicks on messages in menu. 

Why would you click on messages

Because when I go to that box, it brings up a menu where I could identify the doctor I want to communicate with, but specifically the one that requested a test.

M and you would message that doctor?

P: yes. Also sometimes if it’s community care I’d send them a message telling them that I took the test that they authorized

M: and if you wanted to schedule  a new appt with a doc, how would you do that?

P: I’d go to appointments, *clicks appts in menu* and where it says start scheduling you can do that. 

M: have you used this before?

P: Yes, I prefer to use this than actually calling the center. *describes challenge trying to schedule over the phone* I prefer to use the online system and have been able to navigate it correctly and find it very easy to use

M: So when I asked you to make follow up appt, you’d go to messages and schedule that way, but if it’s a new appointment, you’d use appointments and start scheduling?

P: Yeah, I think *missed it* I am getting old. I forget things. I found it easy to navigate and really appreciate being able to use that system

M:  From this page, let’s say you needed to order CPAP supplies to help you breathe when you are sleeping. Where would you go to order those supples?

P: First I’d go to my PCP and have them approve the medication if that’s acceptance to him and that’s what I need. Typically he orders it and has it sent. Otherwise I would just go to pharmacy and order it that way..*missed it* 

M: Can you show me how you might do that on this website?

P: I would do it, but I don’t see *accidentally clicked away from zoom*

M: My first question, is how would you contact your PCP to get CPAP supplies?

P: Id go to messages to the specific doctor, my primary care doctor, that’s where I would go. And I usually get the physicans assistant

M: And, do you see any other ways you could order medical supplies like CPAP supplies?

P I would go to medications if that was the question, and click on it *clicks on medications* and scroll down to it if it were listed *appears participanti does not know what CPAP is*

M: Why medications?

P: *missed it*

M: Thank you for sharing that. We’re going to switch over and look at the other version of this same site. Before we do that, I just have a few questions for you. Thinking about the tasks we just completed *reviews tasks* on a scale of 1 to 5, 1 being the easiest and 5 being most difficult, how would you rate the difficulty of finding what you’re looking for.

P: I’d give it a 2. Because, just based on my experience and tenacity of being able to figure out the way through the system, and just through use.

M: And would you give the same rating for what we just clicked through?

P: Yes, based on my experience, yes/

M: Does this look like - I know you’ve done these tasks before. Is this similar to your experience on the website now?

P:  It’s similar but I would say schedule appointments, and instead of medications I would put pharmacy. Because that’s where I go to get messages.  And messages, I like the secure message because that giuves me the confidence that that’s what it is.  

M: When you do this now, do you know what website you’re typically on? Is it my healthevet?

P: Uh huh. I do have one other addition to those. I have real difficulty finding my way through to do the travel pay. I would hope that o what come ups there there could be a. Menu site for it. I know not everyone, because I have a 30% disability I do get milage and I try to claim it. But you have to go through a whole system of entering it and many times *missed it*

*switches gears to second prototype, about 38 minutes into session*

M: I’m going to ask you some of the same tasks using this version of the site. Let’s say you arrived here and you want to find an X-ray image and report from here. Where would you go?

P:  *Participant is on X-ray results page for prototype B* *reads menu item, seems like zoom controls are getting in the way*

M: Can you see the page better now? From here, where would you find an x-ray image or report?


P: Medical records

M: And where do you think you’ve arrived on this website? Where are you if you had to describe it to a friend?

P: This would be the entrance screen. This is where I have arrived. You have the name sally there but it would be [first name] off it were me

M: You can go ahead and show me what you’d do

P: Clicson medical records in the navigation. I would click on medical records. I appreciate being able to view print or download. Scrolls down. And I see medical records

*missed it*

M: What would you say is different from the last site?

P: I would say it’s the same

M: And where would you to schedule an appointment with your doctor?

P: I would click on appointments *cliclks* It already lists the appointments that I have, sometimes I try to combine appointments to minimize travel> I appreciate seeing that. I would click on *start schecuedling,* do you want me to?

M: that link is disabled. But thank you for telling me that. If you wanted to order CPAP supplies, where would you go to do that?

P: I’d go to medications and it would list my medications.

M: And you would expect to see that there?

P: Yes.

M: Where else on the website might you go to order CPAP supplies?

P: I don’t know where I’d go here. Medical records perhaps, but I don’t think that would get me where I wanted. I could go to messages and message the physicians assistant but I would prefer just to be able to go straight to the pharmacy. 

M: That’s super helpful.  Now I want us to focus on the bar where it says medical records, medications, appointments.  I’m curious, to the left of that where it says my Health E Vet.  What do you think that is?

P: I’m assuming that it’s to take me to the original my health vet software.

M: I noticed you didn’t click on it before. Do you think it looks clickable?

P: I think it’s redundant. Because *reads links * all this is here. So why would I want to go to My Health vet? Unless I wanted to read literature

M: I know you mentioned some frustration about travel pay before, where would you go to get to that part of the website?

P: actually I have it down under my bookmarks. I can’t recall now where it takes me, something to do with payments. Or charges like copay. That ware.

M: Sure sure And that makes sense, that’s good instinct to have it in your bookmarks. But looking at this website, if you didn’t have it bookmarked, do you see anywhere here you might go for ravel pay? Or how you might get there?

P: I’d look for one other major title having to with compensation or copay or finance. That section.

M: Do you think you could find that section anywhere else on the website?

P: I probably would be going to my health vet if I were trying to find some way, where it has a search, and I could type in travel pay.

M: you mentioned you would go to my health vt et or search

P: If I clicked on it, *hovers over my health vet link on left side* if I went to my health vet and the original screen came up I would go to search and ask for travel reimbursement

M: Can you click on it?

P: Participant licks on it lands on MHV landing page

M: Is this the same page you see or is this different?

P: It’s similar. They say pharmacy instead of medications

M: Can you scroll?

P: *scrolls down*

M: Is this what you see normally or does this look different?

P: This is different

/m; How so?

P: You’re listing the things that are most important. *scrols down* this is excellent

M: And just thinking about those tasks that I asked you, to view your X-ray, make an appointment, 1 being the easiest and 5 being the most difficult, how would you rate the difficulty?

P: You’re on a 1 here now with me!

M: are you talking about this page we’re looking at now?

P: Yes

M: Can you scrolls back up to the top and hit medical records?

P: *clicks on medical records, scrolls down*

M: How would you rate this page?

P: This is a 3 or 4, this is more difficult than what you just showed me?

M: Why?

P: I like the layout of the other, what you had.

M: OK, and so, we’re at time so I want to be respectful of your time. I just have one other question for you. If you were talking to a friend, who is also a veteran, and you wanted to explain to them what website you’re on right now and how to get there, how would you describe it?

P: First of all, I’d make sure he’s signed up to veterans health. But once there I think I could talk him through how to sign in, how to register, get his password, and take him through what he needed to know. 

M: And so, after you got them signed in and everything how would you tell them or describe where you are right now, looking t this page?

P: Well I would tell him this is his desktop, this is where he needs to go to find the different menus for whatever task he needed to an accomplish. 

M:  Before I let you go, I’d like you to think back on the two websites I shared with you. Can you recall which one was easiest to use or navigate?

P: That one where you showed me the different listing with all the tasks.

M: Do you know how to get back there?

P: *laughs* I don’t know. Back to my health vet *clicked on breadcrumb* yes, that’s where it is.   But I would want a better description than My Health Vet. It would be managing my health because that’s what I’m doing here. 

M: Thank you so much. We really appreciate you talking to us about this. Is there anything else you’d like to share?

P:  I really appreciate the opporuntity to discuss this and *missed it* I’m an old school person and an ex superindentdne so I have a tendency to want to teach people things.

*moderator ends session*
