## Background
- Uses screenreader "at times," really only on computer though
- Can't remember what software name is
- Phone is a Galaxy flip, just got it
- Uses screenreader on her computer but just recently got a new phone so doesn't have software installed on it yet

## Warm-up Questions - 5 minutes
   
1. What experience do you have with VA.gov (or the VA mobile app)?

P: I use them both often for prescriptions, appointments. I'm very versed in that.

M: Anything else?

P: To look at like claim statuses, to talk to my doctor on the My HealtheVet. 

2. _If receive VA health care_: Do you have experience with My HealtheVet? _If participant isn't familiar, don't help them remember, just move on_

P: So basically and going in and renewing my prescriptions and making appointments and looking at vital information so basically all the tabs in there. 

M: Do you use the mobile app?

P: I try to. I use a magnifying glass to see it because it's so small. And sometimes I hit the  wrong button because it's so small. On my laptop I can see it. It's easier to use on the app if that makes sense. It's obviously two different things. Like maybe the GUI is easier to use on the app than it is on the website? But I guess it's the same thing really? But I tend to like use my computer because I can see better. 

## Tasks for Prototype 1 

### Task 0: Messages - 5 mins 

P: Basically I'm at a place where the physician responded back? [reads message text out loud]. So go ahead and hit that?

M: Is this a screen you've seen before

P: Oh yes absolutely. I like the screen bc of the ID me feature because I can't keep my passwords straight. So hoepfully you're not suggesting taking that away! 

M: You can click on Id.me and let's pretend you're logging into the website.

P: And now I'm looking at X-ray results, okay. And I really have had to use a similar feature. 

M: What is surprising about landing here?

P: Here's a little note from dr. smith. What I don't see here is sometimes it lets me see the results. I could be wrong.

M: Where would you expect to see them?

P: So just like naturally, I don't know what I'd be printing. Maybe the correspondence for my notes? The move tab, I don't understand.

M: What do you think it is?

P: Maybe like, if I'm on my computer I'm moving it into my desktop? I'm really not sure what the move feature is. Move to a different file? I didn't even know we could do files in this system.

M: How would you describe where you landed on this website.

P: My doctor basiclaly has emailed me and now I'm retrieving the x-ray results and I'm figuring out my next move. Or for example, if these were results - this was a true scenario I had with pre-cancerous stuff and I was worried so I wantedf to see what was going on. It wasn't cancerous by the way. But at this point I'd be wanting more detail I think. Now Dr. Smith is saying - hold on I'm squinting - to schedule telehealth. I'd want to schedule it from here. The worst part of the VA is getting ahold of them. It'd be nice to have a feature to schedule that.

### Task 1: Find x-ray - 15 mins
_Medical records > Lab and test results > locate x-ray result for scan of left ankle_

M: Let's imagine that first you want to look at the images and read the report. Where would you start looking first?

P: I feel like in the body of hte email or some kind of attacvment down here maybe. I would say there could be something. BC this right here, the first option is reply but I haven't really read antyhing. It's not horrible but if you're looking for feedback.

M: If I was gonna ask you ....

P: I guess I'll reply.

M: Why would you reply?

P: I always reply to the doctors like hey thank you, just acknowledging receipt of it. Like, hey, thank you.

M: So again, anywhere you would go to view those x-ray images and reports?

P: Yeah I'd like to see them. Just to have them in the record. Something that might happen at the VA is you get something done and then the next do ctor can't see it. SO it would be nice to have that here.

M: Let's say like the doctor did not include that and you needed to go find that stuff elsewhere. Where would you go?

P: I think there's a tab that says something like lab results? Or something like that?

M: Can you find that on this screen we're looking at here?

P: [Starts reading off nav options. When gets to records, clicks on it.]

M: When we were initially looking at messaging, you didn't go back up to the top. Can you tell me what you were thinking? 

P: [Responds not really answering the question]

### Task 2: Make appointment - 5 mins
_Labs and tests result > Appointments_


M: Now let's go ahead and say that you wanted to make that follow-up appt with your doctor. Can you show me?

P: I'd go over to appts and these are appts I have coming up down here and I'd start scheduling....

M: That time you went straight up to appts and clicked that

P: Back to the eye positioning it's in bold and the blue and white is making my eyes blurry. The black on white background is just easier for me to navigate. I wonder if you could have an option for visually impaired people. Maybe like change the background.

M: I notice that you did see that appts tab though and you clicked right on that. 

P: Yeah it stuck out to me. 


### Task 3: Order CPAP supplies from VA - 5 mins 
_Home > Order CPAP supplies_

P: I might um go to, well it depends. If I have something in the system that says I get them I guess. If I don't I might have to go back to messages and go that route. If I did, then maybe meds? I'm thinking that my doctors made an order for me and that should be in there I'd assume. 

M: Okay let me ask a different question. If you wanted to get reimbursed for travel pay where might you do that on this website? 

P: There is a spot. I can't recall it off hand so maybe under My VA. 

M: I noticed you opened up the Sally menu and now you're looking under My VA. It looked like you also clicked on menu.

P: Yeah I was searching for the options bc I don't think this page has that option. But you would think it would maybe be associated with appointments bc you're getting reimbursed for appoinments but I don't know, I don't do the travel vouchers. They want you to upload something and I'm not sure what to upload. I think it could be in My VA but I'm not sure. Now I'm in search mode so I'd look in menu. Like maybe travel vouchers would be an option? In a perfect world.

M: So you already mentioned like the a-p-p-t-s in that blue bar. I'm wondering if we could kinda like, just so I'm clear, you diudn't have a problem clicking there for appoinments. What do you think of that abbreviation?

P: I don't know. I don't really like it. [laughs]. I guess I get it. Apts would be like maybe apartments? I odn't know.

M: What would happen if you clicked messages.

P: I'd think I'm getting a message from my primary care provider or a specialist I've been with. And I'm a burn pit registry person and I notice that sometimes they try to reach you that way. I don't recall if I get an email to my personal email say8ing you have a message from you provider. I don't know if that's an option. I use VA but I'm not regularlying trawling it. Sometimes I've been on there looking at something else and somewhere it says you have a new message.

M: What about meds there?

P: I get meds. I don't know. Meds, I get. The abbreviation? I like that tab. It's clear to me that's meds. It's got a medicine thing. The thing I don't like about appointments is the logo. It looks kinda like an ear bud case. I guess it could be a calendar? Yeah maybe it's a calendar. It could have a number inside. I don't know.

M: What about records?

P: I like records. I like all three of them but appointments. [laughs] I don't know why

M: I think I'd find all my labs that I do, you know, for that cancer scare, there were special stuff from there. I had a cat scan done, I'd find my imaging in there. In a perfect world, it's often not in there to be honest. I guess what they call this is the blue button right? All those medical records? 

P: Yeah, you could get all your medical records from blue button.

M: I love that thing.

### Prototype 1 closing questions - 2 minutes

M: Are these types of tasks things you've done before? Tell me more.

P: Oh yeah, mmhm.

M: What would you expect to see in the menu there?

P: I'd expect all those options in there. If people don't like the icons or they mess with their brain or something, I feel like that menu could be that quick dropdown where they could see those four categories in there, if you're on my healthevet. 

M: What about sally?

P: We're in my healthevet so I'm thinking sally takes me to the broader side of va. Like my GI benefits, my like claims, you know, kinda things. My healthevet is just a subset so I'm looking to my sally tab to take me to my main pages. 

M: Overall this experience, looking at your messages, checking you x-rays, etc. what would you rate the difficulty?

P: 1. It's easy. 

M: Why?

P: It's well laid out. It really is. I know have my little ocd issue with appts but it's well laid out and it's really clear and easy to navigate. 

M: If I wanted you to go to the home page...

P: The big VA? I would click the big va.

M: And to get to the mhv home page? 

P: I would click Sally.

M: Okay, that's helpful. 

-----

## Tasks for Prototype 2 

### Task 1: Find x-ray - 5 mins
_Medical records > Lab and test results > locate x-ray result for scan of left ankle_

M: From here, pretend you already signed into the site and I'm gonna have you find your xray images and reports.

P: Okay, let me go to this. This time I went the the My HealtheVet tab. That looks like an add-on. So now I'm not going up to Sally bc that's gonna take me to the main options. And for some reason I don't go to the main menu bc that's gonna tell me the MHV options. So I'm gonna click on medical records in here. I see wehre that My HealtheVet tab got added. I like that. It's intuitive. It doesn't make you think. I almost like it better than the menu tab. Like that could go ahead really. It's kinda competing with Sally here. The My Healthevet, whta that told me is hey, this is the options in the My HealtheVet page. I can see all my appointments, etc. so I can toggle in this area for all those features. And if travel vouchers aren't in here, I know they're not in My HealtheVet, so I gotta go back to Sally.

M: Anything particular about this My HealtheVet tab, like what said that to you?

P: First of all it had a dropdown, right? So you're like oh, I'm in this part. I can stay in this part. Oh, I guess there's payments right here. 

M: It looks like you went somewhere. Did you click something else? 

P: Let me go to my healthevet home.

M: Where did you expect that home to take you? 

P: I expected that home to take me back to that very first page like welcome to the VA. this site is awesome, bla bla. Factoring in that I'm logged in, I'm thinking it would log me out to the main authentication page. I'm a klittle unsure where it would take me which is probalby not good. 

M: So if you would just go back to medical records... And I'm sorry did you click on that VA symbol? 

P: I did, yeah.

M: And that's what you expected it to take you back to the

P: Yeah, we're the VA and we're awesome. Like an informational page.

### Task 2: Make appointment - 5 mins
_Labs and tests result > Appointments_

M: Just to kinda explore this version a little bit more, if you wanted to schedule an appointment, how would you go about doing it?

P: Just so I don't have to scroll, I'm going to click here. I like the dropdown. I'm attached to the dropdown for easy selection. 

### Task 3: Order CPAP supplies from VA - 5 mins 
_Home > Order CPAP supplies_

P: What about CPAP supplies? How would you do that?

M: I'm still feeling medications. 

P: That totally makes sense

M: Maybe I'd go to My VA from Sally. And I'm still trying to figure out the menu. Third option would be menu about VA? 

## Interview closing questions - 5 minutes
  
M: On a scale of 1-5, 1 = easy and 5 = difficult, how would you rate the difficulty of finding what you were looking for in that site we just explored together?
  
P: 1 again. I think both are very easy to navigate. 

M: What if anything felt different?

P: The addition of the my healthevet dropdown into my healthevet. Now I want to logon to My HealtheVet and see. 

M: Compared to the first site I sent you?

P: This one is better. I feel like it's more intuitive. 

M: Why?

P: It's gotta couple extra features I guess. With the My HealtheVet. For quick access there, versus scrolling down. 

M: So I know you looked for cpap supplies and medications. If I were to say it's not in medications but there's somewhere else on the website you could find it. Is there anywhere else you would look?

P: Um, yeah, I don't really know. I don't really get CPAP stuff. If I were desperately needing that, I really wouldn't know where to go. I'd go back to messages maybe? Well there it is. CPAP supplies. There we go. 

M: if you needed to explain to a friend?

P: I would say go to the main page. Scroll down until you see order CPAP supplies.

M: Are you still in my healthevet now?

P: Um I think so? Well mabye I need to go back. 

M: If you could just go to the My Healthevet tab here. And maybe just go to appointments and then open back up My HealtheVet. I'm curious like if this is where you would expect that home to take you.

P: Yes. Yep. If I'm in a sub area, like appointments, messages, etc. Like what if I have to toggle, like I need to order supplies and I don't see where I do it, and I gotta come back quickly to message my provider and say I dont' know how to do it, I just need to be able to toggle back here quickly.

M: I'm curious if you were talking to that same friend, how would you describe the relationship between this site and VA.gov.

P: Oh I would say it's their premiere feature on the site. This is one of the key features. I mean obviously if you're working on a claim, that might be more important to you. 

M: Thinking back to the two versions of the site we looked at today, did you find one version easier than the other?

P: This one, the second version. 
