
## Background

  * Screenreader software

* ios voiceover (apple software) on iphone, using safari

## Warm-up Questions

Let’s start with a few questions...what experience do you have with VA.gov (or the VA mobile app)?
* **P10: well, umm..my experience with VA.gov and um…VA mobile app - are you talking about the My HealtheVet version or the new version?**

M: VA.gov the website
* **P10: My experience with that was I used it to do secure messaging..to umm..you know send messages to my primary care doctor..umm..I’ve sent secure message to my service coordinator. And the blind rehab outpatient specialist. They call it** *[trails off]* **for short. And I order my prescriptions pretty much all the time on VA.gov. I’ve also made and cancelled appointments on VA.gov.**

M: I’m curious if you have a question about how benefits work - like your VA benefits for example - who would you reach out to or what would you do online? Where would you go to answer that question?
* **P10: when I did have questions on Va.gov website I went ot my local VA facility and I went to um..and I um…they have people to help you with that in the eligibility office. And I’ve only did that like one time when I tried to send a secure message and it didn’t go through. And I went there and I kind of didn’t know that..you know. I thought that when you first did it that you would be able to secure message anybody. But I found out that I guess you actually have to be in the loop with them or whatever the technical term was. So the person that I was trying to reach, I got them in my system. But I didn’t know that at the time.**

 M: Thanks for sharing about that.

### Screen sharing instructions - 5-10 minutes**
M:  I want to transition us to exploring the different sites together. First I want you to share your screen. Is that something you've done before?

  M: *[facilitates screen sharing]*

 
## Tasks for Prototype 1

 
### Task 0: Messages - 5 mins
 
* M: Okay looks like you have the prototype open. I want you to start by imagining that you just received this email. Go ahead and read the email text and follow the prompt.
 * **P10: Okay. okay.**
 * M: okay, and yeah you can go ahead and follow the prompt. So the one you’re kind of hovering on right now.
 * **P10: Okay.**
* M: Is this a screen you’ve seen before?
* **P10: Yes.**
* M: I’m curious, if clicking on that link adn getting to this screen - is that what you’d expect? Or is this strange?
* **P10; It is not strange. For anything on Va.gov it will always take me to the sign in screen.**
* M: Okay, great. So this is just a fake sign-in screen, you don’t actually have to sign in. You can clik any of these buttons here and it will continue on.
* **P10:** *[clicks through the login modal]*
* M: Okay, so just explore what is here and I’d love to hear what you are thinking as you explore.
* **P10: well, it looks like a whole new … different layout than what I’m used to getting.**
* M: Mmm…okay.
* **P10: It’s almost similar, but while I’m pretty sure it’s the Va.gov home page. But..umm..you know looking at it with limited vision, I see icons at the bottom** *[referring to navigation bar]* - **I can’t really see what is underneath the icons. But it’s probably you know some of the options like appointments, and stuff.** 
* M: What would you do next to figure that out?
* **P10: I’d definitely explore around. Hmm…Sally**
* M: Yeah, this is a prototype so some of this will not have your information.
* **P10:** *[Cannot hear VoiceOver, but he has “MyHealtheVet” highlighted].* **So..is this something I can click?**
* M: Can you verbalize what you are hearing? We can’t hear your VoiceOver.  
* **P10: It says it is a pop-up. To me that means it has a menu under it. If I click this, will a menu pop up? Do I have to log in again?**
* M: Ah, unfortunately it is coded incorrectly. So it is not a pop-up menu but it is clickable.
* **P10: Do you want me to click on it?**
* M: Not yet, can we keep going through the other options to talk about what you’d expect those to do?  
* **P10: Medical records…a few years ago I needed a copy of my medical records for my sports program. I went and looked at it and I could actually view the image. But the way I had to use something and download it to the tool and print it out…I could not understand for the life of me what they were trying to talk about.**
* M: Yeah, I can really understand that is so confusing. We are working on making that clearer. Hopefully next time that will be much easier for you.  
  
*Observer note: [Lose participant for a few minutes to technical difficulties]*
* M: So you mentioned that there are 4 different items. I’m wondering if you could go through those and tell me what those were.
* **P10: So the first one, I don’t know if it was “apps” or “apts”...voice over wasn’t….oh, so it’s not even letting me read character by character.**
* M: What were you trying to do?  
* **P10: I was trying to read it out character by character.**
* M: Oh, it might not be coded to enable that, but I can read it out to you. “A” “P” “P” “T” “S”  
 * **P10: Okay…I would think that would probably be appointments? Okay, and then “messages” - that’s gotta be the secure message feature. Where you can read your secure messages, and if you get a response that’s where you would go to read the response. And then “Meds” and that is to order your refills and let you know how many refills you have on that prescription. Prescription information..and umm..some of the side effects information for each medication. IT doesn’t have the full full 5-6 pages you might get with your prescription but it has some basic information.**
* M: Okay, great.
* **P10: And okay now “Records” that’s where e’re talking about where yo ucan look at your medical records and obtain copies of, say, if you got your flu shot or covid shot you could print records. You could print a copy of that. Like I say, uh…it also has your tests and labs on there. And like I say the picture of the EKG and x-rays or whatever, but like I say you can view it from this app and you can read the notes that come with that particular test. But like I say to print out a copy is another whole step.**
* M: Okay, great. And I would love to hear what you’re seeing below here. So if you can continue down to the page.
* **P10: Oh, x-ray results. Ooof…I have no idea what that mean.** *[inaudible VoiceOver]* **oooh!** *[going through the mock email on VoiceOver - we cannot hear the audio].* **Okay.**
* M: Yeah so tell me a little bit about what you read or saw on there?
* **P10: It looks like a Veteran took an x-ray and right underneath it gave the option to reply, trash, and there was another option but underneath that was a doctor’s note informing the patient to look the x-ray over and respond back if you have any questions.**
* M: Okay, great. And I wanted to ask you…just to remind you of what we have done. First you received an email and it brought you to the logon screen, and when you logged on you landed here. Is that kind of what you’d expect, or is that strange behavior at all?
* **P10: That is not what I…I never have gotten a response from my doctor to check a lab result. So I can’t really say it’s strange. I don’t know if this is the new normative. But if it is, I like it.**
* M: What is the normal that you’re used to?
* **P10: I used to … I feel like I take blood labs..** *[facilitator interrupts]*
* M: Oh sorry - your normal, I mean…is it weird to land on this screen or do you expect to land somewhere else?
* **P10: no, I expect to land on this home screen…but a lot of times on the old system you would have to log in…like…once you get to sign-in and get to the home screen and click on a…a tab. Say, like messages, medications, and meds. It would send you to another sign-in screen. So…you didn’t go from like the sign-in screen straight to say, a task. Once you clicked on the link it would ask you to sign in again.**
* M: Oh, okay - you're used to being asked to sign in twice?
* **P10: Yes.**
* M: okay, thanks for answering those questions.
  

### Task 1: Find x-ray - 15 mins

M: I’d like you to go through the task to find those x-ray results from your doctor.
* **P10:** *[tabs backwards through the page to get to the navigation bar].* **You said to look for those results?**
* M: Yeah, where you would go to look for those images. Like to look for those images or the report.
* **P10: I don’t really see.**
* M: What are you looking for right now?  
* **P10: Those 4 tabs underneath didn’t exactly give me the information of where to go** *[referring to SM buttons related to the message itself]***?** **Unless the print option gives you the option to view it before you print. I think on the other My HealtheVet it gives you the view option.**
* M: Right in the message?
* **P10: Next to the message. You would have to go into the medical record and its a list of um…all the tests and labs and x-rays and stuff like that. And then you would click on like…um..**
* M: Okay, yeah so Harvey I want you to see if you can find that screen on this website.
* **P10: oh, okay. Mmm. noo……** *[clicking around in footer, realizes that is wrong and starts tabbing back up to the top of the page].* **Oooof** *[Makes noises in response to VoiceOver audio that indicate he may be struggling to understand]*
* M: I’m curious when you get to “Inbox” why you keep going back down. Why don’t you go up?
* **P10: That’s a good question, but I think the inbox is all of the messages and not particularly where you’d go to look for the lab results?**
* M: Mhmm…did you try to click there to go back to the Inbox?
* **P10: I could.**
* M: Oh, no I didn’t mean you should - I don’t think it will do anything, I was just asking.
* **P10: oh, um....No.** *[observer note: participant means he didn't intend to click this].* **I think I see these tasks like reply and print and this other one "move" - it makes sense that it would be in this group.** *[observer note: meaning - he thinks "view results" would make sense as an option on this page. He was checking for that on this page before moving on*].
* M: Ah, right - I think it’s talking about this message. Like you could “move” this message into a folder or something.
* **P10: Okay, okay….well, unless I go back up to Records and see if I can access it from that tab?**
* M: Okay!
* **P10: But if I go up there…hold on, let me see…umm..tap on that or...?** *[referencing the "Records" option in the nav bar]* **It might not be in there.**
* M: Umm yeah you can try to tap there.
* **P10: Okay, okay…yeah I think this might be it!** *[tabs to Lab and test results and description, then tabs over to the link]* **umm..I”m gonna click on that.**
* M: Okay.
* **P10: Okay. Now this sounds familiar** *[referring to descriptive paragraph beneath the H1 "Labs and test results"]*
* M: Yeah. So I’m curious, Harvey. You’re on the correct - well, not “correct” but on the screen that we intended for you to land on. You got stuck before you went back up to that area where you could select some different options. Are you used to something else? Having those options somewhere else or …if you could put into words what felt challenging about that.
* **P10: What felt challenging…I never got a message to review x-rays before, so I was kind of uh…doing some process of elimination. And I felt that on that screen…that uh…if I had the option to respond to the results, um..reply to the results, to print the results, that it kind of would make sense to have a tab to view the results too?**

 ### Task 2: Make appointment - 5 mins

 * M: Oh, okay - totally that makes perfect sense. Yeah, okay. So Harvey, next I’m going to have you go to where you’d go to schedule an appointment.

  * **P10: Okay, back up top** *[tabs backwards to navigation bar and over to “Appts” then back one more to My HealtheVet” then back to “Appts” - selects this]* **Okay...** *[tabs over to the “start scheduling” link].*
* M: Okay, seems like you’ve found it?
* **P10: Yes!**

### Task 3: Order CPAP supplies from VA - 5 mins

_Home > Order CPAP supplies_

* M: The next task is the final one to complete with this version of the site. Please imagine you need to order CPAP supplies to help you breathe when you are sleeping. Where would you go to order those supplies?
* **P10: Okay, well I’m hoping and praying it would be under Medications.**
* M: Why do you say you’re hoping and praying?
* **P10: well, even though it isn’t a medication it’s a medical supply. I’m thinking I should be able to order and see it there.**
* M: I’m curious if it wasn’t under Meds, where else do you think you could go to see it?
* **P10: whew! From this home screen? From these tabs?**
* M: Well, you could start anywhere from this website, I’m curious where you would go to try and order supplies.
* **P10: That’s a good question. I’ve never done that. You know what I would do though…if I didn’t know and it was…say it was after hours where I couldn’t call the VA to ask that particular question..I’d probably send a secure message to my primary care provider. But now I’m curious - is there anywhere that would be listed?**
* M: Yeah, there is a place, but I think I might want to switch us to the other prototype instead. Harvey, please know that you can say no to this, but would you be able to stay another 10 minutes?
* **P10: No problem, I was late.**
* M: I mean, barely, but if you could do that it would be so helpful. I'm going to share the link to the other prototype with you. Maybe that will help you be able to answer this question.
  

## Tasks for Prototype 2
  

### Task 0: Messages - 2 mins

* M: Now we will walk through the same tasks using this version.

_Participant arrives on secure messaging page with message from doctor open_

* **P10: Okay, so I’m just going to start at the top and navigate around.**
* M: I’m curious Harvey, did anything stand out to you as being different at all?
* **P10: umm..no.. well, those icons and those options for medical appointments and records were not there on the home screen.**

### Task 1: Find x-ray
*Observer note: skipped this task for time purposes*

### Task 2: Make appointment
* M: uh huh. So I'm curious if you had to go and schedule an appointment - where would you go to do that?
* **P10: Um, let me go back up there.** *[tabs up above the message to the navigation bar, but continues past it with tabs to the global header]*
* M: I’m curious, what is it saying for you when you get here? *[referring to the "MyHealtheVet" text in the collapsed navigation bar]*
* **P10: It says “My HealtheVet” pop-up button. It says to double-tap to activate the clicker.**
* M: Mhmm.. okay..
* **P10: Let me see what it does.** *[clicks and expands the menu]* **Okay, so that’s a home dashboard, view appointments, check messages, view medications, access medical records.**
* M: Okay. *[in pleased, confirmatory tone]*
* **P10: Okay, what were you saying?** 
* M: Oh I was just saying that’s helpful to hear what you think those are. Where would you go to schedule an appointment?
* **P10:** *[tabs to appointments in the menu]* **right there** *[lands on appointments page and finds “start scheduling” link]*
* M: I’m curious where you’d go on this prototype to order CPAP supplies on this design.
* **P10: Well, I'm going to tab around to see what else is here other than manage appointments. I’m curious to see what else is on this screen.** *[tabs around]* **oh….oh…** *[responding to VoiceOver, which we cannot hear].* **Oooof! …so..**
* M: So what are you hearing, or what are you looking for?
* **P10: I was checking to see if there is any information pertinent to appointments? But there kind of …wasn’t.**
* M: What do you mean?
* **P10: Sometimes after the appointment there are other options. But it looks like this just has a list of your appointments with the date, time, location. And underneath that there are instructions to join the VA video connect. You know, I know a couple of appointments were video. But after that that was basically it.**
* M: Okay. Yeah. See anything that you might think you could click to find those CPAP supplies?
* **P10: um..let me…umm…oooh. No.**
* M: No?
* **P10: No.**
* M: Okay, if you go back to the dropdown and click on the dropdown, and go through those options…**
* **P10: Okay, home dashboard. Appointments..messages…medica…umm..okay.** *[tabs across all 5 options]*
* M: Yeah, I have a question for you. I”m curious what “home dashboard” means to you. IF you were to click there what would you expect to find?
* **P10: Probably um..more information? Than what’s on this home page.**
* M: hmm..okay. And why do you call this a home page? I noticed that you refer to multiple pages as home page.
* **P10: well a lot of times because when you sign in to sumthin…even on VA.gov it will take you to VA.gov or My HealtheVet actual home page. And that’s why I said home page, even though um..this prototype now that you mention it might not bet he home page.**
* M: Mmmm..okay - sure. Okay, great. Everything that you have shared today has been incredibly helpful. Thank you so much. Go ahead and click ‘home” page for me. I’d like to get your thoughts on that.
* **P10: okay…** *[clicks "Home" in collapsed menu and then reacts to voice over]* **Oh!** *[gets to My HealtheVet landing page]*
* M: Go ahead and take a minute to explore this page.
* **P10: Okay.** *[tabs around to the various headings and link text on the landing page…gets to Medical supplies]* **oh…okay! I guess it would be under there!** *[referring to the CPAP supplies link under "Medical Supplies" content box].*
* M: does this match your expectations for where ou would find something like that?
* **P10: Yes! Okay, so where it takes you to from the sign-in is not exactly the home page? It’s maybe just a page for a quick tabs for uh..to take you to like some of the most common things you would use VA.gov for. But the home dashboard is the....probably the official home page. Ummm..where you get other options.**
* M: Okay, the way you’re describing it is really helping me understand how you’re thinking about it. So the link you opened form your email - it sent you right to a secure message and skipped over this page and put you directly in that. But, doing that causes a little bit of confusion. Is that right?
* **P10: Right. And um..I mean, once you know it and get used to it, I do like that better because it cuts out that other sign-in step out?**
* M: Oh, interesting. So you only have to sign in once presumably?
* **P10: Yes!**

## Interview closing questions - 5 minutes

* M: Okay, great. Harvey ,I want to make sure to let you go in a minute, so I’m just going to ask you a few closing questions. I wanted to get your thoughts about these two prototypes and how they’re different?
* **P10: I mean the things we just discussed..so the prototype to where…they send you a link. Even if they send you a link to an appointment and it takes you straight to the appointment to where you can get the message and you know…it’s the appointment that was scheduled months in advance and I can find out real quick the time and - most importantly - the location and which department? That would be fantastic!! If that can take you straight there and cut out the time.** 
* **P10: Um…it looks like this prototype is uh…*way* more** *[laughs]* **accessible than what we have. Because, like I said, there are some parts of VA.gov that wasn’t completely accessible and sometimes you have to turn the VoiceOver off to actually click on a button. And I know a lot of …um…the blind and low [vision] Veterans in my support group doesn’t even use it at all because of the accessibility issues.**
* M: oh, okay interesting. Thanks for sharing that. Also really frustrating.
* **P10: Yes.**
* M: That’s got to improve, right?
* **P10: yes.**
* M: How would you rate that first prototype (with icons)?
* **P10: 1, it was easy to use.**
* M: And this one, what would you rate this one?
* **P10: This was a 4.**
* M: Okay, and why do you say that?
* **P10: Umm..because of that situation where this one … well, I didn’t even know there was a section for Medical Supplies. And that was a glitch. I mean…you know - that was something that we discussed and I had to look for and I couldn’t really find it in the first one. But, the first one was easier because it cut down that extra step. This one cuts that extra step down too, but there was a lot of confusion between where it first took me and the home dashboard.**

*Observer note: participant explanation is unclear. Moderator probes further on this below.*
  
* M: mm..yeah, how about - okay, so one prototype gave you the four options and the icons across the top. And the other one gave you a dropdown with a home option. Which one of those was easier for you?
* **P10: Icons are definitely easier.**
* M: Oh really, why do you say that?
* **P10: Umm...drop down menus are…with screen readers they are a little difficult. It says menu, but you have to click it to even see what’s in the menu. But with icons, it just tells you what each icon is. So it’s almost like a step that like…if you know where the icons is....you can scroll from the top to the icons and navigate that way. But on a menu, to even *see* what’s in the dropdown menu, you have to click on it and then swipe around.** 
* **P10: So..even though it’s an extra step, *and it’s not a time consuming step.* But if you know being blind or low vision how the screen is laid out and you can go anywhere on the screen to where you want to go, it’s *always* easier than trying to swipe around and find menus and find what’s in that menu.**
* M: That’s so helpful to hear. Thank yo usomuch for telling us about htat and for staying on longer. THanks so much for doing that. But I don’t want ot keep yo ua minute longer so thanks so much for your time!
* **P10: Thank you, it was fine. I like these.** *[referring to research sessions]*
* M: Good , I”m so glad it was a positive experience. Take care of yourself, Harvey!
* **P10: Okay, I will. Bye bye.**
