## Background
* On a laptop
* Rural location

## Warm-up Questions
   What experience do you have with VA.gov (or the VA mobile app)?
* **P4: uhh..I go on it. I haven't had a real good experience with the VA in total...I mean...it's uhh..I don't know. Basicaly I retired in '93 from the Coast Guard and the whole time the y have been telling me the VA is there to back you up. But then they told me I make too much money to get benefits. Every time I try to do something I get a funny form letter from - maybe not you guys - but from the VA.** 
* M: Do you go on Va.gov or the mobile app at all? 
* **P4: I do go on the website, I hate to say it by my phone is the bane of my existence. It's hard for me with my big fingers. I live in a rural location and it's hard to do stuff.** 
   
Do you receive VA health care or do you have experience with My HealtheVet?
* **P4: No, I do not receive healthcare with the VA. And with today's military it's probably more customer oriented. I retired in '93 and there was no ...uh..basically they handed me my retirement and sent me off to Maryland. There was no plan, no retirement anything. The VA is just a horse of a different color or something.**
  * M: Have you ever heard of My HeatlheVet? 
  * **P4: I have heard of it. I think I get an email every month or once every 2 months. I'm not sure if I get snail mail or what, but I know that I see it.** 

[Moderator helps participant get set up with screensharing]
M: Great, now I can see your screen! 

M: Thank you for your patience in figuring this out.  Now let's go to that website. I can post the URL in the chat or just say it to you. Which of you prefer? 

### Task 0: Messages - 5 mins (sees icon version first) 

M: Okay looks like you have the prototype open. I want you to start by imagining that you just received this email. Go ahead and read the email text and follow the prompt.

* **P4** *[Clicks view message & proceeds to login modal]*
* M: Now that you've landed on this page, before you click anything...can you just tell me what you're seeing here? What if anything was surprising about landing on this page? 
* **P4: Umm..I mean it's almost kind of like a typical like weird email. It's dated uhh..I guess uh results of somebody's uh medical or telehealth appointment with some provider.** 
* **P4: if this was real I'd probably delete it because it's a HIPPAA issue.**

*[Observer note: participant may not understand that the login modal was meant to simulate authentication and that they are "Sally" for this interview. Will prod moderator to try and get clarity on that]* 
 
* **P4: It looks like Sally got an email and you are going to follow-up and look at some lab results.** 
* M: Is there anything going from that email to this page that was surprising? Is that what you'd expect? 
* **P4: No, not really. We went from ID.me to this and you'd think there would be some buffer - I guess the term would be. Like "do you want to go to this email" do you want to go here or there? Or a menu I guess, not a buffer.** 
* M: Okay, yeah that's great. Thank you for sharing that. That's super helpful. 

*[Participant seems confused that the email about a new secure message would deep-link them to that new message. They expected to be sent to a home page where they could choose their own direction].* 
  

### Task 1: Find x-ray - 15 mins
_Medical records > Lab and test results > locate x-ray result for scan of left ankle_

* M: Next, imagine that you want to look at the images and read the report from your x-rays. Before you click anything, I want to hear where you might naturally start looking first? 

* **P4:  Well, there is no enclosure on this email.** 
* M: Would you expect that? Some kind of attachment? 
* **P4: Well, if it's as informal as this is, maybe...if they're not going to call them on the phone or whatever. I would think there would be some kind of attachment so they could easily go in there and find it. As it is now they can reply, trash it, or print it. But I don't know how else...unless you went up there to My HealtheVet up there - but I'm not sure.** 
* M: Tell me what you would expect to happen if you went up to the My HealtheVet up there that you mentioned. 
* **P4: I would think that would take me to MyVA or at least...a menu for My Health, MyVA, whatever.** 
* M: And once you got to this menu, what would happen? 
* **P4: I'm thinking My Health would be a subcategory of MyVA. And at least that's where this email is stored in. And if I click My Health I'll see all lmy different emails from my different doctors.** 
* M: When you were thinking about clicking "Back to Inbox" *[referencing the breadcrumbs]* what were you thinking you would see there. 
* **P4: Well, hopefully more emails or other information that would help me see my results.** 
* M: I'm going to ask you, just looking around the page for another 30 seconds or so. Let's just assume there is no attachment. 
* **P4: uhh.. well up here My HealtheVet right there that just popped up. I would think you could go under your medical records and see. Or you could go on Medical records and see the results of whatever...your test results would be under that. Certainly wouldn't be under appointments...well I guess it could...**
* M: You can go ahead and start clicking around and see if you can get there. 
* **P4: Okay,** *[clicks medical records in blue navigation bar].* **Okay, here: I see "lab and test results" and it has a click to get to your lab and test results. I also see summaries and notes. And after-visit summaries, same things.** 
* M: Okay, so if you wanted to see that report or that x-ray, what would you click on ? 
* **P4: I would say lab and test results** *[clicks this and goes to list of labs]*
* M: And what do you see there?
* **P4:** *[names different card titles he sees on this page]* 
* **P4: Umm...no I don't see the word x-ray...I think I might have to go to page 2.** 
* **P4: Oh, radiology and images - I guess that's it.** 
* M: And what were you looking for when you saw this? 
* **P4: Well I was kind of looking for x-rays. I'm lucky my wife is in medical, I have heard it both ways.** 

### Task 2: Make appointment - 5 mins
_Labs and tests result > Appointments_

* M: For the next task, imagine that you want to make a follow-up appointment with your doctor. Show me where you'd go to do that.
* **[IMPORTANT] P4: I would say you'd get out of medical records and go to "appointments"** *[clicks the breadcrumb "Back to Medical Records"]*

*[Observer note: participant sees the language "back to ____" in breadcrumbs as an escape hatch that will take him to the landing page]*

* M: If I were to ask you where you are on the website, do you know where yo uare? 
* **P4: Umm..I'm still in Medical records but I would have to back...I'd probably back out to My HealtheVet** *[points to breadcrumbs]* **and then do that and then go to Appointments and see what my next appointments is.** 
* M: Show me how you'd do that.
* **P4:** *[Clicks breadcrumb for My HealtheVet, sends him to landing page where he sees the Appointments box].*
* M: So is that what you'd expect? 
* **[IMPORTANT] P4: Yeah, to just back out of it. That would be the easiest thing to do for somebody on a computer. And somebody like me you click the wrong thing and go ahhhhh and want to kill the computer. But somebody like me, you just want to back out..**
* M: What about that "Appointments" up on the top, what do you think that is? Do you think that's clickable? 

* **[IMPORTANT] P4: I would think yes, that it's clickable. My HealtheVet is a constant - even when I was on Medical records that blue bar was still there. So I could have clicked on Appointments when I was on medical records and go to Appointments.** 
* M: Do you see here where you mgiht be able to make a follow-up appointment? 
* **P4: well it sounded like the doctor had already made an appointment for her.** 
* M: Gotcha, so you think the appointment was already made with the doctor. 
* **P4: I would say, but looking at the names and seeing what's here...I don't see where I would do that.** 
* M: Okay, if she hadn't, what would you do? 
* **P4: I think I would click that green button on the top where it says "start scheduling"** 
* M: Okay, great. That's so helpful. 

### Task 3: Order CPAP supplies from VA - 5 mins 
_Home > Order CPAP supplies_

* M: The next task is the final one to complete with this version of the site. Please imagine you need to order CPAP supplies to help you breathe when you are sleeping. Where would you go to order those supplies?

* **P4: Let's see...I'm trying to think what CPAP would be under. It's not a medical record issue. Medications, possibly....you could order that from a pharmacy. I would think maybe under meds. I mean I have a CPAP and uh..If I want that I just go to my Pharmacy, so that comes under medications and there you go.** 
* M: So you would click on medications? Okay, you could try that. 
* **P4: Well there is nothing there.** 
* M: Yeah, so that's kind of..yeah what else might you try? 
* **P4:** *[Clicks breadcrumbs to go back to My HealtheVet - gets on landing page and scrolls down to Medications card on landing page]*
* M: Tell me more of why you would think CPAP would be under medications. 
* **P4: Well, in the civilian world, I associate it with pharmacy. I don't think it would be a medical records. Umm...medical supplies - you have it down here. Jeesh, right in front of me. Order CPAP supplies.** 
* M: Yeah, you can go ahead and click that. Now that you have arrived here, and this is kind of the last page that is clickable. Are you on the same site that we started on? 
* **P4: No, we are on healthcare now. It kind of took us out of there. That bar that was there, that's gone now. It looks like maybe we're still under My HealtheVet because it is highlighted [prototype mistake], but those other options aren't there anymore. I think that uh...I mean I found that only because I started hunting. Or scrolling up or whatever. It woudl be good if that block had been there originally. Which I don't know if it was there or not because my screen is only so big.** 
* M: Originally, meaning what - where we started this task? 
* **P4; In the civilian world, I would order CPAP as part of pharmacy, but I don't totally know how the VA is set up.** 
* M: No that is super helpful, thank you for that. 


### Prototype 1 closing questions - 2 minutes
We're going to switch over to looking at the other version of the same site. Before we do that:

* M: Are these types of tasks things you've done before? Tell me more.
* **P4: Yeah, for my doctor we have MyChart and it's similar - doesn't have the stacked bar but it has options at the top.** 
* M: And if you click the My HealtheVet" in the upper corner, yeah now you see that bar you were talking about, right? 
* **P4: Yeah.** 
* M: And do ou see that "Sally" name in the upper right? What kind of information would you expect to see if you click that? 
* **P4: I mean it's a dropdown. It's obviously a drop-down. Actually we're already on that because it says "Welcome Sally" right here on this page.** 
* M: Thank you, that is super helpful. 
* M: On a scale of 1-5, 1 = easy and 5 = difficult, how would you rate the difficulty of finding what you were looking for in that site we just explored together?
* **P4: Uhh..yeah, again...I would say...between a 2-3. Because it wasn't real difficult. Not even for me and I'm a difficult person. I would say all you have to do is read the boxes or read the dropdown. Whatever they're called here. If ID.me works and takes you right into whatever this is considered, then this would be a 2-3. Probably a 2 because it is really quite self-explanatory and covers all the bases here.** 

## Tasks for Prototype 2 

Okay, I'm getting ready to share the second link with you within the Zoom chat, just like last time. And again, just like last time, when you open the link it'll look like a website but it's just a prototype so you won't see your real information on the screens. 

### Task 0: Messages - 2 mins 

Now we will walk through the same tasks using this version.
_Participant arrives on secure messaging page with message from doctor open_

### Task 1: Find x-ray - 5 mins
_Medical records > Lab and test results > locate x-ray result for scan of left ankle_

* M: Could you show me how you would try to find your x-ray images and report on this version of the site?
* **P4: I would say click "Medical Records"** 
* M: Okay, you can show me how you would do that. 
* **P4: Okay, [clicks Medical Records in nav bar] Oh, but you wanted me to find appointments.** 
* M: actually, I wanted you to find yoru x-rays
* **P4: Oh,** *[clicks lab & test results].* **It would be this one here** *[finds quickly from memory of last task].*

### Task 2: Make appointment - 5 mins
_Labs and tests result > Appointments_

* M: Now, I want you to schedule an appointment with your doctor. Did you notice anything that was different from last time?
* **P4:** *[clicks appointments in nav bar]* **I see "start scheduling" here and I'd click that.** 
* M: Okay, yeah that link won't work in this prototype, but you got there. Joe, a minute ago you were hesitating with your cursor over "appointments" and what were you thinking there? 
* **P4: I was thinking it's a 50/50 toss, do I click "Appointments" or back out of everything ***[referencing the Back to My HealtheVet breadcrumb]*
* M: Is there any reason you thought the appointments link wouldn't work? 
* **P4: well I was just thinking from past experiences...just dealing wtih government. Before I got to you guys, I was having VEERS** *[observer note: unsure if I heard this right]* **and TRICARE and I know this is a VA thing, but you cannot circumvent anything on their webpages. ....and I am technically challenged. So I didn't want to do the wrong thing and go "oh crap"**

### Task 3: Order CPAP supplies from VA - 5 mins 
_Home > Order CPAP supplies_

* M: One final task is left: Please find where you'd order CPAP supplies (or any medical supplies). 
* **P4: I would think I would go to the My heathevet home** *[clicks back breadcrumb and goes to landing page].* *[scrolls down and finds CPAP in the Medical supplies box]*
* M: And if you could scroll back up to that blue bar, what do you think that "home" would do? 
* **P4: umm..well I think every website known to mankind has some kind of...main thing. That would be perfect if that was the main place for some kind of vet or retiree.** *[observer note: confused by user's response]*
* M: Was there anything different that you noticed about this version of the site 
* **P4: Uh...hmm..I wish I could do it all over again.** 
* M: You can click around and re-visit anything you'd like. 
* M: So as you are moving, you keep clicking that back to My HealtheVet breadrumb link. What do you think that home button in the blue bar would do? 
* **P4: Hmm..I think it would take me back to the main menu or the VA benefits menu.** *[possibly referencing the Va.gov home page?]* **and if I click that Sally will get logged out.** 
* M: Oh, Sally would get logged out. Hmm..
* **P4: This will take me somewhere else.** 
* M: Oh you think it will take you somewhere else. 
* **P4: Maybe I'm just off base...but I think that, I mean that's good - from the standpoint of making simple things...what was the old saying. Simple jobs for simple minds. You log in id.me and you go right to My HealtheVet and life is a good thing, everybody is happy, and they can do what they need to do.**
* M: Right, that is super helpful and thank you so much for sharing that. 
  * M: On a scale of 1-5, 1 = easy and 5 = difficult, how would you rate the difficulty of finding what you were looking for in that site we just explored together?
* **P4: 1 with a slant bar 2. Closer to 1, maybe a 1.5.**
* M: Why do you give that rating? 
* **P4: Well as soon as we logged in and I had enough sense to scroll up and look at the whole page, it was...I could find CPAP supplies. If someone were looking ,they could see medications and supplies and that's a good idea to be able to track deliveries. Shipping is terrible now.** 
* M: Yeah and that makes sense. SO it was kind of like once you were able to scroll up and navigate the page, you were able to find things pretty easily? 
* **P4: Right.** 

## Interview closing questions - 5 minutes

Thank you for your patience and for going through those tasks again using this second version of the site. You can close out the web browser and stop sharing your screen. I just have a few final questions to ask you:

* M: Thanks for doing these task son this second version of the site. 
* **P4: Yeah I liked the second version.** 
* M: Why is that? 
* **P4: well, the first verison of the site...it was easy, but the second version were easier. It was basically similar and maybe if I had enough common sense to scroll through teh whole stupid thing before going through and clicking on something else. But if this were the first thing I would come to, scrolling through...and I mean we all scroll through things...just kind of looking at what's on the bottom...it's all right in front of me. It's - what's the term?  user friendly. which you usually don't get from the government.** *[referencing the landing page]*
* M: let's look back at that first link again. I just want to make sure we're talking about the same thing. So this was the first version you saw. 
* **P4: So this is the message which just leaves you hanging with "back to inbox" but that's where I went from here to medical records thinking that I woudl find those records in medical records. But in hindsight I would probably go home to MyHealtheVet.**
* **P4: but there's no way...to - well maybe I can click "My HealtheVet" here...because I want to get back to those boxes.** 
* M: Oh, the boxes. Okay, so you want to get back to those boxes. 
* **P4: I could probably make an appointment but I can't do everything. So if I went back to MyHealtheVet I would see everything and could do everything I need to do.** 
* M: Got it, thank you. 
- M: If you were talking to a friend that is also a Veteran and wanted to explain to them how to find this site on the web, what would you say?
* **P4: I would think that after clicking the ID.me, instead of going to the meail, the would go to My HealtheVet first instead of that. Because they may not want to see the email but get a medication or something else.** 
* M: Gotcha, and that totally makes sense. 
* M: If you were talking to a friend that is also a Veteran who wanted to use these tools, how would you describe the relationship between this site and the VA.gov?
* **P4: Uh...well...it's so simple to log into VA.gov even I can do it. Because most of my friends know that I am not that big on computers.** 
* M: Anything else you wanted to comment on? 
* **P4: A lot of people just might not want to go right into a message, they might want to go into something else or whatever.** 
* M: Well....oh I'm sorry go ahead. 
* **P4: Well I was just going to say for VA locations, we don't have one here in my city...we have to drive down and half the time it isn't even open. And that's probably neither here nor there, but.**
* M: Well thank you so much for your time today and really appreciate you sharing your thoughts as we improve these tools with Veterans like yourself. 
