## Background
-   Desktop user
-   Has healthcare
-   Was also shown mobile version
  

## Warm-up Questions - 5 minutes

M: What experience do you have with VA.gov (or the VA mobile app)?

-   **P17: So I would say I use the mobile app more than the website just b/c I’m on my phone more often. But for the website usually, if I’m maybe doing something more complex I’ll log in on the laptop. But…I will also use the VA mobile app, but if I can’t see everything I want to see on there, I sometimes go on the website on my phone. So it’s a variety of the things. But the app provides most of the information I’m looking for, like my appointment times and the messaging feature to be able to message my doctors. And then checking the status of claims. That is usually pretty well detailed.**
* M: So you do the checking of statuses and claims as well as the healthcare, is that right?
* **P17: yeah**

M: Do you have experience with My HealtheVet?
* **P17: I think I might have an account. I think when I had a claim for a disability there was something like a Blue Button report I had to get, I think that was through My HealtheVet. But otherwise I use the basic VA.gov website and the app**
    

### Screen sharing instructions - 5-10 minutes**

M: [ Facilitates screen sharing]
  

## Tasks for Prototype 1

  

### Task 0: Messages - 5 mins

  * M: Take a minute to take a look on this page, I’m wondering if it makes sense based on that email that you came from.
    
-   **P17: It looks like an inbox with a message, and has results of an x-ray that is obviously not for me. So it’s kind of like a messaging section.**
    
-   M: Totally. I’m not sure what your experience is logging into Va.gov. If you feel like logging in, depending on what link you clicked on that you might land specifically on messaging versus the landing page or a home page.
    
-   **P17: Oh, yeah - I think normally I am expecting a home page. So I just do the login button and I use the ID.me and go through that process and then it just takes me to whatever home page and then I navigate through the tabs to find what I’m looking for.**
   -   M: Yeah that makes sense. Let’s say a friend of yours didn’t have access to that link you clicked and wanted to have access to that messaging app, how would you describe to them how to get here.    
-   **P17: I would go to the homepage of the VA website, and so okay, click the login button which I assume is up here [points to upper right corner of website header] and login and then click on the “messages” tab?**
-   M: Okay, cool.  

### Task 1: Find x-ray - 15 mins

_Medical records > Lab and test results > locate x-ray result for scan of left ankle_
* M: Next, imagine that you want to look at the images and read the report from your x-rays. Before you click anything, I want to hear where you might naturally start looking first?
-   **P17: If it’s the inbox and it’s saying “X-ray results” then I would expect those to be attached? Kind of like with an email you’d expect attachments to be on the bottom.**
    
-   M: Yeah, totally. Unfortunately in this situation it’s not attached. But I totally agree with you it makes a lot of sense. And a lot of things you’ll click may not work because it’s not a real website. Considering it’s not an attachment, where else might you look?
    
-   **P17: I think medical records possibly? (points to MR in nav bar). Yeah.**
    
-   M: Okay, great. So yeah feel free to click around now and see if you can find it.
    
-   **P17:** *[Clicks MR > gets to landing page > Clicks link under lab and test results > and finds the cards. Scrolls up and down]* **I guess these are in some sort of order? Alphabetical order maybe? Oh wait, no it’s the date. I think its this one.** *[hovers over ankle left 3 views card correctly]*
   

### Task 2: Make appointment - 5 mins
_Labs and tests result > Appointments_
* M: where would you go to try to schedule a follow-up  appointment? 
-   **P17: I would click appointments** *[clicks in nav bar]* **and then this “start scheduling”**
    
-   M: Did you say you do schedule appointments using the app?
    
-   **P17: Yeah, a new issue I will do something like that. But a lot of times if I’m at the clinic already I’ll just go ahead and do it right there.**

### Task 3: Order CPAP supplies from VA - 5 mins

_Home > Order CPAP supplies_
  
* M: The next task is the final one to complete with this version of the site. Please imagine you need to order CPAP supplies to help you breathe when you are sleeping. Where would you go to order those supplies?

-   **P17: I would think medications maybe? Even though it’s not a medication it’s a thing you need.**
    
-   M: Totally, yeah.
    
-   **P17: Yeah, either that or if I had just sent a message? I don't know what doctor that would be. Or even if it was send a message to the PCP to say “I need more of these supplies”**
    
-   M: Yeah, totally that makes perfect sense to me. And then one more task - let’s say you wanted to file for travel pay to receive a claim to pay you back for your travel. Where would you look for that?
    
-   **P17: I would look here** *[clicks mega menu benefits and healthcare and scrolls through].* Hmm...I'm not quite sure about that one.
    
*[observer note: participant not considering the 'Home' page as an option - looking to other options]*

-   **P17: Service and benefits maybe?**
    
-   M: It’s really helpful to hear you think through what would make sense. I wanted to ask you - you opened the VA benefits and healthcare menu. Is that a menu you have seen or used before?
    
-   **P17: Yeah, I think so. Because I have researched what other benefits are available. So yeah, I’ve kind of clicked through and read the home pages for each of those tabs.**
    
-   M: Great. I’m wondering - there’s that darker blue bar and then the lighter blue bar underneath. I’m curious what - if there is a distinction between those two or how they might be in relationship with one another? How do you make sense of that?
    
-   **P17: ohhhh I See. Now I am noticing the “MyHealtheVet” so I see the healthcare related things, whereas maybe this MyVA is everything [points to MyVA in header]. But maybe healthcare would be the stuff in this light blue bar.**
    
-   M: Interesting, the VA benefits and healthcare has a lot of stuff in it too, including health care, but is that confusing to you?
    
-   **P17: I think it makes sense. I just didn’t really think about it. You asked earlier about My HealtheVet and I was like uhh…I think so? But I didn’t really know. I just think of all of this as the Va.gov website.**
    
-   M: What about the Sally menu?
    
-   **P17: I just think about that like your profile and settings, login, dependents, and things that are specific to you.**
    
-   M: Cool, great.
  

### Prototype 1 closing questions - 2 minutes

We're going to switch over to looking at the other version of the same site. Before we do that:

* M: On a scale of 1-5, 1 = easy and 5 = difficult, how would you rate the difficulty of finding what you were looking for in that site we just explored together?

-   **P17: I’d say a one.**
    
-   M: Okay, and why that rating?
    
-   **P17: So, especially in comparison to other websites, the VA website is very accessible and maybe that’s because it’s kind of geared towards being able to be used by the elderly. But it’s kind of simplified which I like. But once you really get to clicking on things it still gets you the information that you need. For all the times I’ve needed to look something up it’s been pretty easy. I don’t think I’ve been unsuccessful in finding things.**
    
-   M: That 1 that you gave, is that related to finihsing the tasks I asked you to complete? Would you rate that a 1? Or would you give that something different?
    
-   **P17: Everything except the travel reimbursement stuff - I’d give that a 2 or a 3 because it wasn’t an immediate obvious answer.**
    

## Tasks for Prototype 2 (Icon design , desktop) 

### Task 0: Messages - 2 mins

*[Observer note: speeds through this]*

### Task 1: Find x-ray - 5 mins

_Medical records > Lab and test results > locate x-ray result for scan of left ankle_

  

- M: Can you show me where you might go to find your x-ray images and report on this version of the site?
-   **P17:** *[clicks medical records in blue nav bar, then clicks lab & test results from MR landing page and finds the first card. Very quick]*
    
### Task 2: Make appointment - 5 mins

_Labs and tests result > Appointments_

  

- M: Now, I want you to schedule an appointment with your doctor.

-   **P17: I would click appointments and then start schedule**
    

### Task 3: Order CPAP supplies from VA - 5 mins

_Home > Order CPAP supplies_

- M: One final task is left: Please find where you'd order CPAP supplies (or any medical supplies).

-   **P17: Again, I think medications because it’s** *[observer note: meaning the CPAP supplies]* **a physical object.**
    
-   M: Totally. I would like to ask you to click the … see where it says “Back to My HealtheVet home”?
    
-   **P17: Yep [clicks the breadcrumb and goes to the Landing Page] Oh! Medical supplies and equipment. I feel like that should also be up here** *[in the nav bar]* **because if I don’t find this page I never see that as an option. Because yeah…** *[scroll down]* **…ohhh yeah and payments, that isn’t in there either. If this was all smaller maybe those could fit there?**    
-   M: Yeah, so I noticed that there was a “home” in the last design. Did you notice that?    
-   **P17: I don’t think so. Let me go back [changes to the other prototype]. Oh I do see that, I gues I didn’t notice it I just expected to find those other categories in here.**    
-   M: I’m curious what would you expect to find on a home page?    
-   **P17: I think a summary of my upcoming appointments and easy access to order more prescriptions or medical supplies and then just other helpful information that, you know, I’m sure ther are ways to track what most Veterans are looking at and put those on the homepage for easy access.**    
-   M: Yes, that makes sense to me. And before you go to clik - you know where it says “My HealtheVet” in the bar - does that text seem like something you could click on?
-   **P17: Yeah, it does.**
    
-   M: Okay, what do you think that go to? Where would that lead you?
    
-   **P17: Oh you’re talking about this one** *[hovers over the My HealtheVet].*
    
-   M: Yeah
    
-   **P17: Yeah, I do think that appears less clickable. But when I hover over it, it does highlight - so maybe that’s fine. I would think that would take you to the home page too.**
    
-   M: I’m curious up in the top left where it says “VA” - if you clicked that, where would you expect that to lead you?
    
-   **P17: I think the home page of the whole VA benefits and stuff.**
    
-   M: Can you give me an example of a couple of things you might find on that?
    
-   **P17: Maybe just an overview of the benefits that the VA might offer. Because it’s like if somebody was just signing up for VA benefits and they went to VA.gov, you’d want to advertise to them the things they might want to take advantage of. So something about healthcare, disability application, about like GI bill and..things like that.**
    
-   M: Cool, that makes sense. Great.
    
## Closing questions
- On a scale of 1-5, 1 = easy and 5 = difficult, how would you rate the difficulty of finding what you were looking for in that site we just explored together?

-   **P17: I would say also a 1.**
    
-   M: Why do you say that?
    
-   **P17: Again it’s well laid out. Big font, simple, not too distracting.**
 
 *[Observer note: Moderator has the participant shrink their screen to mobile size to reflect on these design differences with them]*
  
-   M: okay, I”m going to ask you to do something weird and shrink your browser down and I wondered if you could look at that blue strip again and notice that it’s changed. I just wanted to get an understanding of like…there are some abbreviations in there and I wonder if you’ve used them? Like meds for example
    
-   **P17: Yeah definitely that one I’ve used. Maybe appointments is less familiar but when it’s combined with the calendar, it's fine.**
    
-   M: I wonder if you have opinions in how these are different in terms of use?
    
-   **P17: I think that I like the second one ***[note: referencing the icon design]* **better because of the tab option up there. So like clicking between the two I don’t see the light blue tab here, but everything else seems fairly similar. I think I like this one with these tabs.**
    
-   M: Can you explain a bit why?
    
-   **P17: I think especially for older people clicking links and stuff, if they’re like “I just want to order more meds” they can see it right there.**
    
-   M: If you go to the other tab in your browser, I’m just curious on this one, how would you get around? *[referring to other prototype design that collapses down]*
    
-   **P17: mmmm…I guess clicking that. That dropdown thing. But people, especially older people don’t know that this tiny symbol means “dropdown menu”**
    
-   M: What about you? Would you recognize that?
    
-   **P17: I think I would.**
    
-   M: Awesome, thank you and have a great rest of your day.
