## Background

-   Uses pinch magnification   
-   Also uses a magnifier shield on my phone to make things look bigger   
-   Using smartphone
   

## Warm-up Questions - 5 minutes

M: What experience do you have with VA.gov (or the VA mobile app)? Do you have experience with My HealtheVet? _If participant isn't familiar, don't help them remember, just move on_

* P16: I usually go on the computer for My HealtheVet. Usually a few days after my appointments. To see med refills or if there are appointments or anything like that.
    

### Screen sharing instructions

  

[Facilitates screen sharing]



## Tasks for Prototype 1

  

### Task 0: Messages - 5 mins

* M: Okay looks like you have the prototype open. I want you to start by imagining that you just received this email. Go ahead and read the email text and follow the prompt.

-   P16: This looks simple, just hit the button [referring to “View message link in mock email].
    
-   P16: [sees login modal] Usually I have my password - I can look that up on my phone.
    
-   M: Usually you would have to login fully, but this will not require you to enter your credentials. Just imagine that it did.
    
-   P16: [clicks through to secure message]
    
-   M: What do you see here ?
    
-   P16: Looks like it’s a message that can send me the results of my x-ray.
    
-   M: What if anything is surprising about this?
    
-   P16: That it went directly there.
    
-   M: What is surprising about this?
    
-   P16: it seems too easy.
    
-   M: what would you expect to see?
    
-   P16: Some more links, and another login.
    
-   M: Another login? Before you’d be able to see this?
    
-   P16: yep
    
-   M: How would you describe where you’ve landed here?
    
-   P16: Wherever my results are, it looks like I landed here and hopefully I could see it and I’m good to go. Hopefully I could just reply back.
    
-   M: Why would you reply back?
    
-   P16: If I cant’ read it or don’t understand it. Or if I have questions about it.
    

  

### Task 1: Find x-ray - 15 mins

_Medical records > Lab and test results > locate x-ray result for scan of left ankle_

  

- Next, imagine that you want to look at the images and read the report from your x-rays.

- Before you click anything, I want to hear where you might naturally start looking first?

-   P16: Let’s see - I’d go to my records. Usually everything is in there within…what is it 72 hours?
    
-   P16: I probably would skip the messages and just go to records to see it. If it’s in the system.
    
-   M: That makes sense, and I know you said you’re in your x-ray results, but … yeah, okay cool. And when you say “skip message” what do you mean by that?
    
-   P16: well, where it says messages and back to inbox and all that, I’d probably just go straight to records to view them first before I try to read a message about it.
    
-   M: Yeah go ahead and show me how you’d do that.
    
-   P16: Clicks “Records” in the nav bar and then gets to MR landing page > clicks lab & test results page and identifies the “Ankle left 3 views” card very quickly

  

### Task 2: Make appointment - 5 mins

_Labs and tests result > Appointments_

 
- For the next task, imagine that you want to make a follow-up appointment with your doctor. Show me where you'd go to do that.

-   P16: Yep, [Clicks “Appts” in the nav bar] and then I’d click ‘start scheduling”
    
-   M: I noticed you found the appointments up there in that light blue bar. Can you tell me what you were thinking?
    
-   P16: Book an appointment, but usually I don’t use this for the book appointments.
    
-   M: Okay, tell me more.
    
-   P16: I usually just call the line and have them do it. I call the local Philadelphia one and they have a really good one.
    
-   M: Okay, and James it looks like you stopped sharing yoru screen.
    
-   P16: there we go, is that better?
    
-   M: Hmm, no not yet.
    
-   P16: Should I try again?
    
-   M: Yeah, go ahead and try again. What’s happening on your end?
    
-   P16: It’s doing its countdown…there we go.
    
-   M: Can you navigate back to chat? It’s in the upper corner.
    
-   P16: [gets it back up and running]
    

  

### Task 3: Order CPAP supplies from VA - 5 mins

_Home > Order CPAP supplies_

- M: The next task is the final one to complete with this version of the site. Please imagine you need to order CPAP supplies to help you breathe when you are sleeping. Where would you go to order those supplies?

-   P16: It could be me the user
    
-   M: Probably not, we can only speak for ourselves but I’m sure it’s not you. I’m sure its shared frustration. But if it were you, where would you go?
    
-   P16: I’d go to meds
    
-   M: Why would you go to meds?
    
-   P16: Because it’s like a prescription. And if not there I’d go to messages.
    
-   M: What if I was going to say travel pay?
    
-   P16: So, to be honest with you I don’t know because I don’t claim it. I don’t ever mess around with that.
    
-   M: Okay, and if I was going to say there is a way - or a scenario to do that today, what would you do?
    
-   P16: um…probably menu.
    
-   M: What would you expect to be there?
    
-   P16: umm…a VA claim list where it helps you file a claim.
    
-   M: That’s super helpful. So I kind of want to bring our attention to this “appointments, messages, meds, records” that you’ve already talked about. Can we just go left to right and see if anything else stands out around that?
    
-   P16: Umm.basically start scheduling…[is on the appointments screen]
    
-   M: What about that appointments tab in that blue bar up there?
    
-   P16: Oh yeah that’s what I hit up there to get here. That seems convenient.
    
-   M: What about messages ?
    
-   P16: yeah, that seems like where I’d contact doctors
    
-   M: What about meds there?
    
-   P16: seems easy as long as that’s where I refill my medications
    
-   M: What about records?
    
-   P16: Yeah I’d think it would have all my records there.
    
-   M: what about other types of records, would you expect this to be only healthcare records there?
    
-   P16: umm…no I think this would be healthcare records only.
    
-   M: So you wouldn’t expect to find your DD214 there?
    
-   P16: No, god, I hope not. I don’t think so, no.
    
-   M: One more question about that blue bar up there - that “myhealthevet” what do you think that is?
    
-   P16: It’s just to make sure I have everything there for my health. Like everything I’d need for my health - htose for things, it minimizes confusion.
    
-   M: Don’t do anything yet, but I’m curious would you think that is clickable?
    
-   P16: Yes
    
-   M: Where do you think it would take you?
    
-   P16: Depending on which one I hit, straight to that link.
    
-   M: Okay, gotcha so those four things. What about that text athat says MyHelatheVet?
    
-   P16: No, I don’t think so. It’s just telling me the subject of what’s in that block.
    
-   M: Cool, that’s super helpful. Thank you for sharing that. I think you already said what you think you would find in that “menu” in the upper right hand corner. What about where it says “Sally”? I’m curious what you think it would do if you clic kthat.
    
-   P16: Basically, gives me … allows me to sign out, basically I can’t remember what else it does. But there are like a basic four things.
    
-   M: Cool.
   

### Prototype 1 closing questions - 2 minutes

We're going to switch over to looking at the other version of the same site. Before we do that:

- Are these types of tasks things you've done before? Tell me more.

- I noticed that you clicked / didn't click "menu" at the top right. What would you guess that is for? If you did click it, what would you expect to see?

- How about the button or area labeled "Sally"?

- On a scale of 1-5, 1 = easy and 5 = difficult, how would you rate the difficulty of finding what you were looking for in that site we just explored together?

-   P16: I’d give it a 1 it seems easy enough.
    
-   M: Anything specific that made it easy enough?
    
-   P16: basically it’s easy. you click any one of these that you want, one of these 4 categories.
    
## Tasks for Prototype 2


### Task 0: Messages - 2 mins

  

Now we will walk through the same tasks using this version.

_Participant arrives on secure messaging page with message from doctor open_

  

### Task 1: Find x-ray - 5 mins

_Medical records > Lab and test results > locate x-ray result for scan of left ankle_

  

* M: Can you find find your x-ray images and report on this version of the site?

-  P16: I think I’d click on that My HealtheVet tab there (opens collapsed menu) and then pick one of these things
    
-   M: I’m curious what you were thinking when you clicked that
    
-   P16: I was thinking it was a little menu with that arrow and it would open and give me options of what I could click on and then I could go to view it.
    
-   M: Okay, yeah go ahead and click on that.
    
-   P16: [selects medical records] and then without even reading most of this I’d see that blue tab and click on it [referencing lab & test results link]. And then there [points to ankle left 3 views x-ray card]
    
-   M: When you said you wouldn’t read all of it, what were you looking for?
    
-   P16: Things like the date, time, if there is something unread, what’s light blue or dark blue.
    
-   M: Okay, great.
   
### Task 2: Make appointment - 5 mins

_Labs and tests result > Appointments_

-   P16: Schedule an appointment? See I’m going to have to go back…
    
-   P16: I’m going to click on this [My HealtheVet nav bar that is collapsed] and then pick Appointments [does this] and then I”d click on that Start scheduling.
    
-   M: And if yo ucouldn’t find it?
    
-   P16: Then I would just call them. And the reason for that is there are so many different doctors and teams, purple team blue team gold team. It’s easiest to just call them and give them my name and tell them to give me your first available or whatever.
    
-   P16: So it isnt really the site’s fault, there’s so many doctors that there is so much complication they cna be confusing. FOr me, I don’t really care who sees me so I just call them and get the first available.
    
-   M: Thank you that is helpful context and information. Did you notice anything that was different from last time?
    
-   P16: well the other one was easier.
    
-   M: What do you mean?
    
-   P16: the options were just right there. That was easier.
    

  

### Task 3: Order CPAP supplies from VA - 5 mins

_Home > Order CPAP supplies_

  

- One final task is left: Please find where you'd order CPAP supplies (or any medical supplies).

- P16; yep let’s see…I’d open that blue menu there and hmm..i’d click medications. Oh, it’s not there

- M: Let’s say it’s not in your medications but there is another place on VA.gov that you coudl find it. Where would yo ugo to try and find it?

- P16: There is, I just don’t know where to find it. I’d go to home. Oh, yeah home. [clicks home] I’d go there and see if there is anywhere that says it. So right there I’d go to that home page and scroll around to say if it says anything about it. And I’d find the CPAP and I’d click on that.

- M: Now that you’re here, I’m curious….so you’ve arrived at the CPAP supplies. Where ….if …now that you’ve arrived here, are you still on the same site that you started on?

- P16: um….I’m at the home page.

- M: You’re at the home page now?

- P16: well I went to a different page, then the home page, and it seems like I went to ad different page.

- M: yeah, so the page that we’re on now, is this the same site that we started on?

- P16: uh….yeah, because it’s still the VA with Sally menu, and I see home. [referencing breadcrumbs that say Home]

- P16: so I went to the home and now I’m on another page, but this is still the home page. This is where it gets frustrating.

- M: What is frustrating?

- P16: Well because it should just be with my medications and I’d be good to go. In real life though this is where you have to login all over again and it gets complicated.
- M: Holistically, On a scale of 1-5, 1 = easy and 5 = difficult, how would you rate the difficulty of finding what you were looking for in that site we just explored together?

- P16: I would say this one is more of a 3 until you get used to it. But once you get used to it, it’s going to get changed…sooo.

- M: Tell me more about that - once you get used to it.

- P16: The other one was easier. Unless you see the home page, but there wasn’t really any guidance to get to that page.

## Interview closing questions - 5 minutes

M: Thank you for your patience and for going through those tasks again using this second version of the site.  I just have a few final questions to ask you. If you were talking to a friend that is also a Veteran and wanted to explain to them how to find this site on the web, what would you say?

-   P16: What i’d do, depending on if they needed help or not, they’d come into my office or I’d go to their space, because I work on a base still - is I’d pull it up and just walk them through it.
   
- M: If you were talking to that same friend that is also a Veteran who wanted to use these tools, how would you describe the relationship between this site and the VA.gov?

-   P16: umm…yeah because that was straight medical, but when I go to the VA I get the choices to go to the different ones.
    
-   M: And what are those choices?
    
-   P16: I can usually go to my claims or the medical stuff and it gives me those two options.
    
-   M: And so the site that we were looking at today, what side of the coin is that?
    
-   P16: That is the medical side.
    
-   P16: So if I was explaining this to someone, I’d probably see which side they wanted help with. Probably with a few cuss words in between.
    
-   M: Anything else I didn’t ask you about that you wanted to talk about?
    
-   P16: No, I don’t think so.
    
-   M: Okay, well thank you so much and have a great rest of your day.
