# Comparison Study

## Participant Background
* On mobile device
* regular user of VA.gov 
* Spouse works at the VA
* Is a home-health nurse and regularly helps patients navigate the site

## Warm-up Questions
   
* M: What experience do you have with VA.gov (or the VA mobile app)?

* **P3: Umm, I mostly use it for the secure messaging. I have recently learned how to scheudle my own appointments on there - I didn't even know that existed. And...I am also tracking my VA claim. Because i am... I'm working with teh VSO. Because when I started my claim about 10 years ago, I wasn't really ready - wasn't mentally ready yet to deal with it. Everyone was hounding me in my family, so I sort of half-assed it.  There were certain documents that I wasn't ready to face and write adn turn in. SO, of course it got denied. So he is helping me, and I've written it all out...so yeah...and It's actually attached to the same claim.**

* **P3: So that's pretty much what I"ve used the website for.** 

* M: Okay, great. You said you recently figured out that you could schedule appointments on VA.gov. How did you learn that? 

* **P3: I was doing something else and I saw the link for it, and ... I'm the kind of person who will click on links. So I was on the site and I thought "what is that?" I saw things like burn pit registry and more.**
  

## Tasks for Prototype 1 

### Task 0: Messages - 5 mins 

* M: *[Helps participant get ready to share screen and open prototype]*

* M: Okay looks like you have the prototype open. I want you to start by imagining that you just received this email. Go ahead and read the email text and follow the prompt.

_Participant arrives on secure messaging page with message from doctor open_
* **P3: Okay, so I'll sign in like I normally do.** 
* M: And you usually use ID.me? 
* **P3: Yeah.**
* M: Okay, so just read that message and tell me what you'd normally do.
* **P3: So they want me to find my results myself?** 
* M: I wanted to ask you about your expectations, is there anything between that message and opening it here that felt surprising to you? 
* **P3: No.**
* M: Could you use a few words to describe where you've landed? Like, what is this website? 
* **P3: Oh, um..well this one is in My HealtheVet and it's like the secure messaging only it just looks slightly different. It looks like an email more than our current secure messaging looks like.** 


### Task 1: Find x-ray - 15 mins
_Medical records > Lab and test results > locate x-ray result for scan of left ankle_

* M: So I wanted to ask you about something that I Think you were about to do anyway, which is to see if you can go ahead and locate the x-ray results that this message mentions. 
* **P3: Yeah, I may have to look for a minute to find them.** 
* M: That's okay, take your time.
* **P3: To remember where they are.** *[Opens mega menu. Then selects "VA logo" in the corner of the website, which sends user to the wrong location in the prototype. They get to the My HealtheVet landing page from here and very quickly select "Lab and Test results" from under "Medical Records" sending them to the correct location].* 
* M: Okay, great, that was really quick. 
* **P3: And then I need to make an appointment it says?** 
* M: Yeah, but first let me ask you a few questions around that. When I said to look for an x-ray and you clicked around for a minute, I'm just curious what you were looking for htere.
* **P3: Umm..the test result area. Because there is a place where you can only pull it up. Most times I have to pull it up in the blue dot thing** *[referencing Blue Button report]* **I can't just pull it up this easy. I have to pull it up through blue dot and download it. and..all that nonsense. Well, no, not the...okay, labs I can pull up easily. Test results like an x-ray I'd have to go through blue dot.** 
* M: Okay, cool.


### Task 2: Make appointment - 5 mins
_Labs and tests result > Appointments_

* M: Okay, let me see what else. The next task is to go look... find where you could schedule an appointment with your doctor.
* **P3: Mmmmkay...I would hit the "VA" [referencing the VA logo] and would go to the appointments where it says "Schedule and manage" [goes to this link] and then I would click "start scheduling"**
* M: Great, you're so quick. So I'm noticing..a couple of times now you've clicked that "VA" logo. And when you click there it brings you to that page with the boxes on it. And I'm curious if that's what you'd expect upon clicking on that logo? 
* **P3: Well, I clicked the "menu" one first [mega menu] and it didn't give me what I was looking for, so my brain tells me to go and click the other thing. And see if it works. I just click until I find things.** 
* M: Totally makes sense. Very reasonable. 
* **P3: Normally whatever is in the corner, your little snowman, you know - the 3 dots - that will get you places, and in this case they don't have that - they have the word "VA"**

### Task 3: Order CPAP supplies from VA - 5 mins 
_Home > Order CPAP supplies_

* M: The next task is the final one to complete with this version of the site. Please imagine you need to order CPAP supplies to help you breathe when you are sleeping. Where would you go to order those supplies?
* **P3: And I do have to do that, and I haven't done that before. I've always had to call or send a message.** 
* M:Okay, so where would you go to order those supplies here? 
* **P3: Generally speaking, I would click on that and see if I can find something that tells me.** *[Clicks "VA" logo again to get to landing page, scrolls down to medical supplies and sees a link with "CPAP supplies" text there].* **Oh, right there - medical supplies. That was easy. I wish they would do it this easy!**
* M: For sure, what about that felt so easy? 
* **P3: It was really easy to find. I didn't have to go through sending a message to somebody.  In the old way you had to call this number and talk to this third company that wasn't even part of the VA. And it was a real pain in the backside.** 
* M: I'll bet. Because I'm sure htey put you on hold and everything.
* **P3: Well, this is the same company, but see I had to call them myself before.**
* M: Got it.

### Prototype 1 closing questions - 2 minutes
* M: I see you looking around here, which is great because I was going to ask you to do that. So, I wanted to ask you, you know, if this is the same site you started on, or if it feels like you've moved elsewhere? 
* **P3: No, this looks like the same site. I know the current site is not this easy to use.**
* M; Laughs, yeah. Okay, yeah. 
* **P3: The current one that is currently in place is not this easy.**
* M: So I just have a few more questions to close up exploring this version. The first is, are these the types of tasks of things that you've done before? Seems liek some of them yes, some of them no.
* **P3: I have not ordered supplies in this manner before. There may be a way to do it and I just don't know how to do that yet. But right now I just send a SM to sleep medicine when I have to order something. and that is only once a year b/c they only send supplies out once a year.  And this last time I Just went in the VA and did it.**
* M: Okay, so sometimes you kind of prefer to do things in person? 
* **P3: Ummm..no, not really.** 
* M: okay, you'd rather just...
* **P3: If I can do it myself without talking ot a person, I"m happier.** 
* M: If you would, could you go back a couple screens? 
* **P3: [uses back button]** 
* M: Oh, actually, maybe it would be better if you tried the link again that I put in the chat? 
* **P3: [gets back to the prototype]**
* M: I wanted to ask you before you click on anything, do you see that lighter blue bar where it says "My HealtheVet"? 
* **P3: Yes, I see it.** 
* M: I'm curious without clicking it, what do you think that is - if anything? 
* **P3: Umm...probably a drop-down menu.** 

* M: Okay, what would you imagine is maybe in that dropdown menu? 

* **P3: Probably the same information that's in those boxes ... when you hit hte "VA"** 
* M: Okay, i mean it looks like you maybe glanced at it very quickly at first, but then kept going back to the home page with the boxes. And I'm curious if that's generally how you would work. If you would prefer to see those boxes as opposed to using, you know, the menu? 
* **P3: Umm..I guess it's whatever I figure out how to use at the time. If the menu's what I'm used to using, then I'll use it. I just...I clicked on the VA thing and everything came up, so I just went back to that again.**
* M: That makes sense - you find something that works, why switch it, right? 
* **P3: Yeah.**
* M: You can go ahead and click there and see what it does. 
* **P3: Oh okay, the same thing just not in pretty boxes.** 
* M: Is that what you expected? 
* **P3: Yeah, that is what I expected. I just normally click up in the corner normally because that's where you find stuff.** 
* M: So I wondered - you did click "menu" up in the top right, but you never clicked up there where there is an icon  that says "Sally" - I ma wondering what you think about that? 

* **P3: oh, I wanted to click that but didn't do that yet.** *[tries clicking it and expands the drop-down menu].* **Oh, okay so that takes you to all these different places.** 

* M: Does that have what you'd expect? 

* **P3: Umm..I'm a little surprised. I thought that [information] would be under the "Menu"** *[referencing the global mega menu]*. But I didn't look at the menu long enough to know. 

* M: Okay, right. This is my last question for this prototype. How easy on a scale of 1-5 do you think this would be? 

* **P3: 1: this one's easy to use. Yes.** 

* M: Is there anything else you want to explore or click that we haven't looked at yet? 

* **P3: Umm..I just want to see what's under this [clicks "menu"] okay so this takes you to kind of the same place also. This is like the one  I'm used to seeing on the VA website currently. I kind of have to click around sometimes to find what I'n looking for since they've combined all the websites into one. It's kind of like a new learning experience.** 


## Tasks for Prototype 2 

M: Okay, I'm getting ready to share the second link with you within the Zoom chat, just like last time. And again, just like last time, when you open the link it'll look like a website but it's just a prototype so you won't see your real information on the screens. I'm sending you the link now *[sends link via Zoom chat for participant to click].*

M: Okay, so this time I'm going to ask you to do the same tasks here. So...

**P3: Oh wow, it's right across the top.** 

M: What's across the top?

**P3: The boxes - Instead of having to click on the "VA" it's just right there - messages, meds, appointments...I don't know if it will work the same as the other one, but ...The pictures are good. I work..I'm a home health nurse and I work with Veterans. I used to work in the field and would teach them how to use the VA website. This would be very easy in that case. That would be easy. Because a lot of my Veterans..they are not computer savvy.  And because they see - you know - the med bottle, the calendar. That would be helpful. They don't have to search for it. ** 

### Medical Records task - find x-ray result
* M: Okay, awesome. So I want to ask you if you can find your x-ray report. 

* **P3:** *[finds quickly by clicking "Records" in nav bar and then selecting "Labs and Tests"]* **There it is.**

* M: What was different for you this time? 

* **P3: umm...less steps. I didn't have to figure out where to find it. It was right there on the same page above my email...err..secure message.**

### Appointments task:
* M: Now, could you schedule an appointment? 

* **P3:** *[Immediately clicks Appointments in the navigation bar and locates the "Start scheduling" link].*
* P3: Right there, and like I said...less steps. And I would just hit "Start scheduling."

* M: Great. And now third and final, where you would go to order CPAP supplies. 

* **P3: Hmm...Now that's where I would start clicking someplace else and look. I'll see what I can find....okay, so it would be in the same place as the other one** 
* M: Yeah, so I'm curious if you could go back a couple of screens? 
* P3: mmhmm. [goes back a few times]

* M: Do you see any other way you could get to that information if you couldn't click on that VA logo? Feel free to take a minute and kind of look around.

* **P3:** *[scrolls]* **Hmm...no that won't let me. I look to the bottom a lot to look for stuff [referencing footer]. And that would be my other thing would be to look under "My HealtheVet" 
* M: Could you say that again? 
* P3: **Or, actually the "menu"** *[opens mega menu].* **And if that fails, I'll use the search bar.** I was seeing if there are more of those things, that's why I was scrolling back and forth. 

* M: What would you search for? 

* **P3: CPAP supplies** *[types this into the prototype search bar]*

* M: Okay, and in the menu, what are you looking for? 

**P3: Generally just if it says medical supplies or something like that. But it's not in there. But I Thought maybe it would be under that. I mean it could be  under healthcare, and I can try to click on different places, but it's kind of like a rabbit hole.** 

*M: Sure, you have to click on different things until you can find what you need. What would you rate this?

**P3: A 1. I think this one is better because those four boxes and icons are better for me. That's nice. I don't have to back up to another screen or find the home screen.** 



## Interview closing questions - 5 minutes

M: Thank you for your patience and for going through those tasks again using this second version of the site. 

M: I'm curious what you guess here - does that "My HealtheVet" in that lighter blue bar look clickable to you here? 

**P3: No, It doesn't look clickable to me. I wouldn't think it would work.** 

M: Feel free to try that if you'd like to. 

**P3:** *[tries it]* **Oh, okay interesting. It sends me to that screen where I can order those CPAP supplies.** 

M: But it sounds like a surprise to you that this is clickable. 

**P3: Yeah, because it just looks like a header and didn't appear clickable to me.** 

M: Both of these designs has the lighter blue bar that has the health options and the darker blue bar above it. Do you see that? I'm curious if you could tell me what you think the differences are between those two things? 

**P3: I would not have expected the lighter blue one to have a heading I can click on. It seems a little repetitious, but that could be really good for some Veterans.** 

M: Now I'm curious for the "menu" that is right above the "My HealtheVet" bar - could you look at that? Do you think each of those are doing the same things or different things? 

**P3: Pretty much the same things. I think If I click on "VA" or "Sally" or "menu" I'm getting to the same things no matter what but it might look a little different.** 

M: Now that you've seen both of these design approaches, what are your thoughts about them? 

**P3: Knowing what I know as a home health nurse, I think this second one** [with icons] **would be a little more friendly toward older Veterans. I mostly take care of a 60+ population, which - some are computer savvy and some aren't. Some have smart phones and some don't. I think because they have pictures. Some people don't have reading glasses and when I don't know the words, pictures help a lot.** 

M: Let's pretend that we were designing this specifically for you. In that case, do you think the pictures would be more helpful for you? 

**P3: Yes, I like the pictures and the blocked out boxes where you can find each thing** *[referencing the landing page].* **Those links are a lot of times how I find things. Like I see "community care" here and I see a therapist through community care. I explore things that way, so I like that list of links at the bottom.** 

M: Did you find one version easier to use than the other, or were they about the same level of use to you?

**P3: Being a person versed in a smart phone, I think they are both easier to use. But I like the second one. I like that bar that stays with you. I can click on that whenever I want without having to go to a dropdown menu and scroll.** 

M: And if you were talking to a friend who is also a Veteran and you wanted to explain to them how to find this website, how would you describe that? 

**P3: Normally I'd just tell them to google My HealtheVet. And even if you spell it wrong, it will still come up.** 

M: Oh, interesting. 

**P3: I was going to say I think you could probably get to this website from Va.gov, it's probably something you could find on that site.** 

M: I'm curious if on the blue bar, you see that there are a couple of abbreviations in the text there. I'm wondering how comfortable or familiar you are with these abbreviations. 

**P3: Appointments, that's a pretty common abbreviation adn the little calendar there is a good clue. Messages and meds are easy. Medical records is the only one that could be slightly vague? If it's someone that's not into exploring may not click on that thinkign that their records are there.** 

M: Their records aren't there? Can you say that again?

**P3: yeah, if they're not the type to explore they may nto know. Maybe if this one said "records or tests" that may be more clear, but the one word is really nice too.** 

M: Like not necessarily your health records? 

**P3: Well, no - I Would think it's health because it says "My HealtheVet" so I don't think this would have my DD214 or anything, I know that this is just about health.** 

**P3: My DD214 would be up in that other menu, that MyVA - because now they combine everything.** 

M: Anything else you want to explore that we didn't do? 

**P3: No, not really. This is much easier than what we currently have. It's like they took 3 websites and jammed it all together without thinking about having a home page for everything. It kind of didn't make sense. But this drops you right where you want to be when you open it.** 

M: Great, that's really helpful. Your feedback is invaluable to me. 



