Screen sharing instructions: 

M: I just want to explain it to you briefly. So I want you to do is just kind of imagine, you know, you're receiving this email in your typical email inbox.

P: Okay.

M: So what you use Gmail or AOL or Yahoo, you're just receiving this email so you can just go ahead and read it and follow the prompt.

P: Okay.

M: And then I'm assuming you've probably seen this screen before. Okay.

P: I've I've looked at some stuff before. As far as records and things like that.

M: Okay.

P: So.

M: Great. So, yeah, you arrived on the site. I would love exactly what you're doing. Just kind of like look around on this one page before clicking anything. And I'd love to hear Claudine like, if it's at all surprising. That you landed here or if this is the type of thing you'd expect. To land on in that link.

P: No, this is something I would expect. Oh, I just. So. I could. Okay, so. Yeah. I'm looking, that what I'm doing is I'm looking at the screen saying, okay, I can't look at the results. There's no option Is that just something that . 

M: I will ask you shortly to go find them. You're totally spot on. I wanted to ask you, you know, like in in our imagination, you received the link in your email, you click that link signed in and then showed up here.

P: Okay.

M: Is that was that weird at all? Was that like the right order of events?

P: It's not weird at all. Yeah. Oh, actually, when, with my healthy vet.

M: Okay, cool.

P: With secure messaging, the the email I get at Gmail just says I have a new message from my doctor. It doesn't tell me. Any other information except to, to log in to that to check my messages. So I don't know that. The information that you sent like the link would. Show up in my Gmail. So I don't think I would be going through my Gmail. I think I'd still need to log in to the Yeah.

M: Okay, okay, awesome. Yeah, that is really helpful information and exactly what I was asking you for. Thank you. Great. And then it seems like you've mentioned this, but I just want to ask really clearly. How would you describe where you've landed?

P: It looks like I've landed in my in well. A message in my index in the secure messaging section.

M: Okay, cool. And that's you said you've used secure messaging. A good number of times. Okay. So, as you already guessed, next I want you to imagine that your, You wanna look at the images from your x-ray?

P: Yeah.

M: And I'm wondering where you would go to do that. So, and just possible, I'd love to hear your thoughts out loud.

P: Okay.

M: So tell me what you're looking for.

P: About the notification. We're getting now when there's a new secure message. There's an option to, you know, if there's an if you have a new message, will notify you via Gmail. It would be. Gmail would give a little more information. Like, cause I sometimes I go in and I'll send several messages to different doctors and when I get a response, I don't know which one it is and I have to go log in and If I knew that it was like this doctor responding or that doctor is funny, but I don't know if that,

M: Interesting. 

P: Yeah. That's just what I would, would think have you really had to know which doctor would actually respond.

M: Yeah, absolutely. That makes a lot of sense to me. Cool, very helpful comment.

P: So if you were looking for those x-ray images, I'm just curious to know what you. What you're looking for to try to find those.

M: I would go back to the, my main screen on my healthy vet and I believe of all the options.

P: There's one for test results or something of that kind of genre.

M: Okay. Okay, great. Yeah, so feel free you can kind of click around to get where you 

P: Okay. I go to medical records. That's test results. Okay, so I see that ABLE left 3 views is probably the one that the messages are going to.

[Perigean Technologies] 14:46:00
Yeah, exactly. That's kind of the intention.

[Claudine Herbelin] 14:46:03
Yeah, and then the EKG microbiology, so yeah.

[Perigean Technologies] 14:46:09
Great. Awesome. And then, I'm gonna give you another task. I want you to, that you need to make a follow-up appointment.

[Perigean Technologies] 14:46:19
So where would you go to do that?

[Claudine Herbelin] 14:46:22
Let's see. I'm gonna go back to the just link at the top to start like from the beginning and then go to appointment.

[Perigean Technologies] 14:46:31
Okay.

[Claudine Herbelin] 14:46:36
At this point. I would start scheduling and. To see if it was available. The email or the message said, tell a health appointment.

[Claudine Herbelin] 14:46:49
I've never tried to do a telehealth appointment. Schedule. I mean, the one in the appointments app part.

[Perigean Technologies] 14:46:50
Hmm.

[Perigean Technologies] 14:46:54
Hmm.

[Claudine Herbelin] 14:46:58
So. This part would be Not appointment, just that. The video appointment part.

[Perigean Technologies] 14:47:00
Okay.

[Perigean Technologies] 14:47:04
Right. Okay. Yep, that makes sense. Okay, now a third task.

[Perigean Technologies] 14:47:10
I want you to imagine that you need to order CPAP supplies to help you breathe when you're sleeping.

[Claudine Herbelin] 14:47:16
Okay.

[Perigean Technologies] 14:47:16
Where did you go to order those supplies?

[Claudine Herbelin] 14:47:19
Go like that.

[Claudine Herbelin] 14:47:25
Well, the only thing I can think of is under medications because it's something that would be prescribed.

[Claudine Herbelin] 14:47:32
I believe, but I don't know that. I don't know what CPU would go through as far as like the.

[Claudine Herbelin] 14:47:36
Medical supplies.

[Perigean Technologies] 14:47:40
Right. Okay, that makes sense. So let me, oh go ahead, what were you gonna say?

[Claudine Herbelin] 14:47:43
Okay. Gonna say so the next thing I would probably do is is go into the secure messages And when you do the dropdown.

[Perigean Technologies] 14:47:51
Okay.

[Claudine Herbelin] 14:47:54
We are going to send it to. It gives you a list of people you can send messages to. So.

[Claudine Herbelin] 14:48:01
I would probably go in there and see if there was anything there for.

[Claudine Herbelin] 14:48:06
Can't remember the I don't look at that. Just that prosthetics. I had to do them for a hand split once.

[Claudine Herbelin] 14:48:14
I go in there and see if there's anything in there that looks like it.

[Perigean Technologies] 14:48:18
Okay, cool. Yeah, that makes sense. Okay, cool. It's really, it's really interesting to hear your kind of thought process with that.

[Perigean Technologies] 14:48:25
So thanks for sharing. How about if I were to ask you, to find where you could get reimbursed for travel.

[Claudine Herbelin] 14:48:27
Hmm.

[Perigean Technologies] 14:48:37
I'm also known as like travel pay.

[Claudine Herbelin] 14:48:38
I do get, I do get that. So,

[Claudine Herbelin] 14:48:42
So for that, I don't, I usually have to go into the VA site itself.

[Claudine Herbelin] 14:48:51
And I actually have a shortcut or a link on my. On my main screen that will get me there, but I'm not sure.

[Claudine Herbelin] 14:49:00
How that goes through. The healthy vet, cause normally I can't do it through health yet.

[Perigean Technologies] 14:49:07
Hmm, okay. Yeah. So recently, I, it sounds like you maybe haven't done it just like very, very recently, Recently it was added to my healthy vet.

[Claudine Herbelin] 14:49:18
No.

[Claudine Herbelin] 14:49:23
Oh, okay.

[Perigean Technologies] 14:49:24
Yeah. So I'm curious if anywhere kind of. I jumps out at you as a place to find that info.

[Claudine Herbelin] 14:49:34
Okay, so, the home option that was there and what's maintenance, messages, medications, medical records.

[Claudine Herbelin] 14:49:43
Hey, ments, medical supplies. Oh hey, what do you know? Okay. Okay.

[Perigean Technologies] 14:49:47
Okay. There they are. Yeah.

[Claudine Herbelin] 14:49:49
Yeah, I thought it was the first. 3 appointments or appointments, messages, medications and.

[Claudine Herbelin] 14:49:58
Records. So now there are options like yeah I haven't seen before. So Okay, so I see where the payments are.

[Claudine Herbelin] 14:50:10
I like my name, travel reimbursement.

[Perigean Technologies] 14:50:14
Oh, that link might not work because it's This is just the prototype. Okay, cool.

[Claudine Herbelin] 14:50:16
Okay, well I just clicked it. So

[Perigean Technologies] 14:50:21
Yeah, I'm curious to hear, you know, earlier you mentioned something about the mind healthy that main page.

[Perigean Technologies] 14:50:30
Would you call this? Am I healthy? That main page or is there something else you have in mind?

[Claudine Herbelin] 14:50:34
If in the, so at the screen I'm looking at. There's a dark blue ribbon that says Sally with the down arrow.

[Claudine Herbelin] 14:50:43
Right under that is my healthy vet with a down arrow. I was clicked on my healthy bed.

[Perigean Technologies] 14:50:48
Hmm, okay.

[Claudine Herbelin] 14:50:49
I thought that take me back to where I could start. But the 2 new things just aren't don't happen to be listed under that menu or.

[Claudine Herbelin] 14:51:00
The flies. And travel reimbursement. So those both were on there. That one would work, but.

[Perigean Technologies] 14:51:08
Right.

[Claudine Herbelin] 14:51:09
So what I did when I couldn't find it, I just hit the home button underneath. It which brings me to the whole list, but.

[Claudine Herbelin] 14:51:16
For this short dropdown, it would be nice because other 2 were on.

[Perigean Technologies] 14:51:20
Yeah, totally. And, Why do you think you thought to click home?

[Claudine Herbelin] 14:51:28
That's whenever I can't figure something out, I go, over.

[Perigean Technologies] 14:51:32
Yeah, totally.

[Claudine Herbelin] 14:51:34
Is the my health event is I think like my

[Claudine Herbelin] 14:51:42
I think that was linked to like my account, my healthy bed account. So I think the phone would be like the overall healthy that.

[Claudine Herbelin] 14:51:49
No, it I guess I don't really.

[Claudine Herbelin] 14:51:55
See the difference? I mean. If you hadn't asked how to do those 2 things I didn't know about.

[Claudine Herbelin] 14:52:02
I probably wouldn't have gone to home. So,

[Claudine Herbelin] 14:52:08
Yeah, I don't think I've ever used phone before because I've always had those 4 things I could do.

[Claudine Herbelin] 14:52:13
So.

[Perigean Technologies] 14:52:13
Great. Yeah, that makes sense. Okay, cool.

[Perigean Technologies] 14:52:18
Alright, I'm just checking my notes to see if there's anything I missed. I have a few questions to kind of wrap up looking at this version of the site before we switch over to the second one.

[Claudine Herbelin] 14:52:30
Okay.

[Perigean Technologies] 14:52:33
And so I just wanted to ask you to give me a rating. So on a scale of one to 5, one being easy, 5 being difficult.

[Perigean Technologies] 14:52:41
How would you rate the difficulty of finding what what you're looking for in this site in this version of the site.

[Claudine Herbelin] 14:52:55
I'm thinking between 3 and 4 because The menu, the dropdown menu I usually use doesn't have the.

[Claudine Herbelin] 14:53:04
The travel or the supply. So

[Claudine Herbelin] 14:53:11
If I, if it was late in the day and. My rain fog was rolling in.

[Claudine Herbelin] 14:53:18
Be able to figure it out. And I would probably. Get really frustrated.

[Perigean Technologies] 14:53:19
Okay.

[Claudine Herbelin] 14:53:25
Just decide, you're not doing yet.

[Perigean Technologies] 14:53:28
Right, yeah, yeah, that makes sense. Okay, great. Is there anything I haven't asked you about?

[Perigean Technologies] 14:53:35
With this. Version that you'd like to share.

[Claudine Herbelin] 14:53:41
Let me just go through. Let me see that.

[Claudine Herbelin] 14:53:52
I know, I think.

[Claudine Herbelin] 14:53:55
Cause I'm just going through all the other things on it. And Okay.

[Perigean Technologies] 14:53:58
Right.

[Claudine Herbelin] 14:54:05
So, you know,

[Claudine Herbelin] 14:54:10
I can't really think of anything else that I would I would do when I go online other than those things.

[Claudine Herbelin] 14:54:16
So. No, that.

[Claudine Herbelin] 14:54:20
I don't think that's it.

[Perigean Technologies] 14:54:21
Okay, great. So I'm just gonna grab the second link.

[Claudine Herbelin] 14:54:26
Okay.

[Perigean Technologies] 14:54:27
And just like last time, I'm gonna put it in the chat. I'll let you know once I sent it.

[Perigean Technologies] 14:54:35
Okay, there it is. It's in the chat so if you can go back to finding the chat button

[Claudine Herbelin] 14:54:40
I don't, how do I get back to Zoom? From that the page. Is it just regular go back to the, previous?

[Perigean Technologies] 14:54:43
If you If you

[Claudine Herbelin] 14:54:51
Okay, I see. Yeah. Got it.

[Perigean Technologies] 14:54:52
Oh, Great. I was gonna try to explain it to you and then you like, we're there.

[Claudine Herbelin] 14:54:59
I wouldn't be sure because the whole screen has a green rectangle bordering it so I wasn't sure.

[Claudine Herbelin] 14:55:10
So good to the second URL.

[Perigean Technologies] 14:55:12
Yeah, exactly.

[Claudine Herbelin] 14:55:14
Okay. Alright.

[Perigean Technologies] 14:55:18
Okay, so, I'm sure some of this looks familiar again since we were just in a similar place.

[Claudine Herbelin] 14:55:25
Right.

[Perigean Technologies] 14:55:26
Is anything standing out as being different at all?

[Claudine Herbelin] 14:55:30
The main thing is under my healthy vet you have the little icons.

[Perigean Technologies] 14:55:35
Okay.

[Claudine Herbelin] 14:55:36
Appointments messages, meds and records.

[Perigean Technologies] 14:55:38
Okay.

[Claudine Herbelin] 14:55:40
Which is what I'm used to having on my healthy bed. So, but just not in that.

[Claudine Herbelin] 14:55:46
I don't like it's a little easier. For me, cause you know. My vision is not great and even with my glasses sometimes I have to squint and I still hit the road.

[Perigean Technologies] 14:55:46
Okay, sure.

[Perigean Technologies] 14:55:49
Hmm.

[Claudine Herbelin] 14:56:00
I like the little icons.

[Perigean Technologies] 14:56:01
Okay, great. That's good to hear. Okay, so just like last time, I'd like you to go about, locating your x-ray images.

[Claudine Herbelin] 14:56:13
And they're not enough on that, where the icons are for extra images. So.

[Perigean Technologies] 14:56:13
Okay.

[Claudine Herbelin] 14:56:20
Find the author, to me it's all down and see if there's anything down there. You know, okay, so.

[Claudine Herbelin] 14:56:25
And I'm gonna hit them my healthy bet again. And see where that, okay, that brings me back.

[Claudine Herbelin] 14:56:33
Okay. Okay, there we go. Oh my god, I'm not. I get brain fog.

[Claudine Herbelin] 14:56:43
I think it's setting in. Records. Yeah. Yeah.

[Perigean Technologies] 14:56:47
Okay.

[Claudine Herbelin] 14:56:54
Hmm. And.

[Claudine Herbelin] 14:57:04
Okay.

[Perigean Technologies] 14:57:04
Okay.

[Perigean Technologies] 14:57:10
And then next again, I'll have you go through to make an appointment. So where would you go to do that?

[Claudine Herbelin] 14:57:17
Okay, I would go back up to that. Many of the icons. Appointments.

[Claudine Herbelin] 14:57:26
And then, I would go to start. I don't know if it'll work, but I would go to start scheduling.

[Claudine Herbelin] 14:57:32
And, Let me do that. Does that one work?

[Perigean Technologies] 14:57:35
Oh no, I don't think it does work. So yeah. And then lastly, where you would go to order.

[Claudine Herbelin] 14:57:49
Because I already know that that's available on my healthy vet, but just not listed with the.

[Claudine Herbelin] 14:57:54
For original items. Click on the might help you that in Lincoln. Lighter blue ribbon. And then scroll down.

[Claudine Herbelin] 14:58:06
To medical supplies and equipment.

[Perigean Technologies] 14:58:09
Okay. And I'm curious, So with this, a version, you get something kind of interesting where At first, you click to go to the My Healthy.

[Claudine Herbelin] 14:58:25
Right.

[Perigean Technologies] 14:58:25
Back home page, the page that you're currently on to find, And then it for whatever reason you decided instead to use the the blue bar with the icons.

[Perigean Technologies] 14:58:33
I'm curious kind of how you're making those decisions, you know, to use to use those blue icons or to use the homepage.

[Claudine Herbelin] 14:58:33
Yeah.

[Claudine Herbelin] 14:58:42
Well, I started just going to my healthy bet and then scrolling down because I had it in my head that records was one of the recently added ones.

[Perigean Technologies] 14:58:52
Oh, okay.

[Claudine Herbelin] 14:58:52
Or supplies So, the scrolling I realized, oh shoot, it's already up there.

[Claudine Herbelin] 14:59:01
So then I went back to the icon. But I could have gone through it the other way as well.

[Claudine Herbelin] 14:59:06
I just. Went back to what would have been the most direct route. By going back to where the icons are

[Perigean Technologies] 14:59:18
Okay, yeah. And then, you also clicked that my healthy vet right under VA.

[Claudine Herbelin] 14:59:25
Okay

[Perigean Technologies] 14:59:26
And I was wondering if you're able to describe that all, what about that to you indicates that it's clickable?

[Claudine Herbelin] 14:59:36
Well, I just learned over time that A lot of the wording in websites. If you click on it, it'll take you to that.

[Claudine Herbelin] 14:59:45
To like some kind of homepage like If I click on the VA, I think it would take me to the VA.

[Perigean Technologies] 14:59:46
Hmm.

[Perigean Technologies] 14:59:52
Okay.

[Claudine Herbelin] 14:59:53
And I've come across the same thing and other. Web sites for other companies. And if I just can't find something, I just.

[Claudine Herbelin] 15:00:01
Or if I get too far into the like the menu tree. I just click on that, it'll take me back to.

[Claudine Herbelin] 15:00:08
Like a start start page or home page. So that something from experience.

[Perigean Technologies] 15:00:11
Okay. Right. Okay, yeah, that makes sense. And then, you know, in this context where you're on my healthy vet doing things like making appointments or looking at your medical records.

[Perigean Technologies] 15:00:25
What does home mean? Like. Meaning.

[Perigean Technologies] 15:00:33
Would you expect, I'm curious like if you would expect to go to like home on like a mine helping that home versus like a VA home, you know, you mentioned that as kind of like a starting over place to.

[Claudine Herbelin] 15:00:46
Yeah. When I clicked in my healthy vet, I, I look at that just being home for.

[Claudine Herbelin] 15:00:54
Well, the might help you vet cage that will give me the different options that I can select as far as.

[Claudine Herbelin] 15:01:01
Tasks I can do.

[Claudine Herbelin] 15:01:05
And at the top of my head, I can't remember, but I think when I first log in.

[Claudine Herbelin] 15:01:13
On the site that I use now. And the ribbon across the top that will list like appointments, prescriptions, and you click on one of those because the first page that comes up is kind of a general health information.

[Claudine Herbelin] 15:01:28
Oh, just, you know, from past experience. I know I'm gonna go to that page and then I need to click on whatever.

[Claudine Herbelin] 15:01:35
Item it is that I want to take care of.

[Perigean Technologies] 15:01:37
Okay, okay, great.

[Perigean Technologies] 15:01:41
That makes sense. Okay. The scale of one to 5, one being easy 5 being difficult, how would you rate the difficulty of, finding what you're looking for on this version.

[Claudine Herbelin] 15:01:42
Okay.

[Claudine Herbelin] 15:01:58
Well, it those other 2 icons are up there. Or the travel and supplies.

[Claudine Herbelin] 15:02:10
Probably like a

[Perigean Technologies] 15:02:13
Okay, if the other icons were up there.

[Claudine Herbelin] 15:02:16
Yeah, because you look at that and you know if you sometimes you've been like Scroll to

[Perigean Technologies] 15:02:23
Right.

[Claudine Herbelin] 15:02:23
And the other one will come up. And actually would probably be better if they were all on, because the way my screen is, you know, all 4 are listed across the top.

[Claudine Herbelin] 15:02:33
If when this stream came up, all 6 options were up there. With that, scroll to the right or left, that would be very helpful.

[Perigean Technologies] 15:02:41
Okay.

[Claudine Herbelin] 15:02:42
I might look at that and just assume those are the only 4 things if I don't think about trying to throw to the right to see if there's anything else.

[Perigean Technologies] 15:02:49
Right. Yeah. Okay, cool. And then.

[Perigean Technologies] 15:02:55
I'm curious to, oh well, I, you, used that kind of, language of, you know, if there were these other icons, it would be a for.

[Perigean Technologies] 15:03:06
What would you read it, you know, with just as it currently is?

[Claudine Herbelin] 15:03:21
Probably a 4. I don't know if the icons make it seem less confusing to me, even though they don't have the other 2.

[Claudine Herbelin] 15:03:30
And

[Claudine Herbelin] 15:03:33
That it just

[Claudine Herbelin] 15:03:39
Because since I know the options that are there. And the one I want isn't up there I would just from habit go back to the might healthy bet like on that.

[Claudine Herbelin] 15:03:49
What else might come up on that page, to show other things. There might just be a link to or a little.

[Claudine Herbelin] 15:04:00
Yeah, blurb about you know you could also do travel pay through whatever you know something like that so

[Claudine Herbelin] 15:04:07
But having them all right up there. In that kind of Really helps. Even without the other 2.

[Perigean Technologies] 15:04:14
Yeah. Okay. Right. Okay.

[Perigean Technologies] 15:04:18
And then, Yeah, I'd like to hear more kind of like. As your thoughts kind of comparing and contrasting these 2, like now that you've seen both of them.

[Claudine Herbelin] 15:04:29
Okay.

[Perigean Technologies] 15:04:29
Do you think of one as easier?

[Claudine Herbelin] 15:04:35
Can I go back to the other one?

[Perigean Technologies] 15:04:37
Yeah, I think you should be able to. Well, it looks like you only have one tab, so you might need to go back to the chat to get the other link.

[Claudine Herbelin] 15:04:40
Okay, does it?

[Claudine Herbelin] 15:04:47
Trying to add another tab, but here.

[Claudine Herbelin] 15:04:57
So.

[Claudine Herbelin] 15:05:02
Oh, got ready to get it.

[Perigean Technologies] 15:05:04
Oh, funny. It must just kind of write over it.

[Claudine Herbelin] 15:05:06
I. Yeah, I guess I can't it didn't see the second tab that I opened up.

[Claudine Herbelin] 15:05:12
Okay. To me, the screen is kind of busy and just with a lot of information that I ignore.

[Perigean Technologies] 15:05:12
Okay.

[Claudine Herbelin] 15:05:21
So. I've got a habit of ignoring it. So. The only thing I would basically go to is the my healthy vet sign in.

[Perigean Technologies] 15:05:22
Absolutely.

[Claudine Herbelin] 15:05:29
Anything else on it? Is that a concern?

[Perigean Technologies] 15:05:35
Right.

[Claudine Herbelin] 15:05:36
So. And that takes me to the message like the other one did.

[Claudine Herbelin] 15:05:48
Okay.

[Claudine Herbelin] 15:05:54
Okay. I'm trying to see. Okay, so then this.

[Perigean Technologies] 15:05:56
Yeah. I know you're using something. Doing some full tracks.

[Claudine Herbelin] 15:06:10
Okay.

[Claudine Herbelin] 15:06:14
I was thinking when I clicked that it was gonna take me to the very first one. Let me go back.

[Perigean Technologies] 15:06:18
Hmm.

[Perigean Technologies] 15:06:22
Hmm.

[Claudine Herbelin] 15:06:23
Okay. So that one takes me to the busy screen. This one takes me. Right.

[Claudine Herbelin] 15:06:37
Amen.

[Claudine Herbelin] 15:06:43
So if I'm

[Claudine Herbelin] 15:06:48
So with the with the second one it looks like it takes me straight to the message without having to log in if I click that link.

[Perigean Technologies] 15:06:49
Hmm.

[Claudine Herbelin] 15:06:59
But the first.

[Perigean Technologies] 15:07:00
Oh yeah, mainly just because you work, it's kind of like. Already job of telling you your kind of logging.

[Claudine Herbelin] 15:07:05
I'm so sorry.

[Perigean Technologies] 15:07:08
Yeah.

[Claudine Herbelin] 15:07:09
So that maybe that's why I also like the second one better because I didn't have to go through.

[Claudine Herbelin] 15:07:14
First menu of that what I what I consider the But if that screen would if I hadn't already had a session going.

[Perigean Technologies] 15:07:21
Totally, yeah.

[Claudine Herbelin] 15:07:26
If that screen came up first.

[Claudine Herbelin] 15:07:32
Yeah, so that's kind of hard to compare because This one is just the way I was already logged in.

[Perigean Technologies] 15:07:35
Right.

[Claudine Herbelin] 15:07:39
It's a lot more straightforward. It's right to the and

[Perigean Technologies] 15:07:42
Okay, yeah.

[Perigean Technologies] 15:07:45
Let me sense. And I actually, while we're here, I wanna just ask you real quick.

[Perigean Technologies] 15:07:50
In this version, there's some abbreviated. Items in that ribbon, the lighter blue ribbon.

[Perigean Technologies] 15:07:57
And I'm just wondering about your familiarity with those.

[Claudine Herbelin] 15:08:02
I always use APPT for appointment, PTS for appointments and. My family's gotten used to it when I send a text.

[Perigean Technologies] 15:08:10
Okay. Hmm.

[Claudine Herbelin] 15:08:11
I have so It's just something I've always used that abbreviation. I think I actually started using it back in the eighties when I worked the vet for a while.

[Claudine Herbelin] 15:08:26
Cause that's how we abbreviated appointments there. So. It makes sense to me, but only I've been using it for years, so.

[Perigean Technologies] 15:08:27
Oh, okay.

[Claudine Herbelin] 15:08:36
And then meds, I mean, Ned's is meds.

[Claudine Herbelin] 15:08:41
I mean all this all the

[Claudine Herbelin] 15:08:47
Words you have up there, appointments, messages, meds and records. To me, I know what I'm, so.

[Claudine Herbelin] 15:08:52
But again, that's just because that's kind of the. The verbal or the abbreviations I've used for a long time.

[Claudine Herbelin] 15:09:00
So. I. Like out in the text appointments or medication. So.

[Claudine Herbelin] 15:09:07
It's just easier. So I recognize him that way.

[Perigean Technologies] 15:09:12
Okay, cool. That's really helpful. Okay, is there anything I haven't asked you about that you'd want to share with me about anything you've seen here today.

[Claudine Herbelin] 15:09:23
Oh,

[Claudine Herbelin] 15:09:28
Just the bottom part that I'm looking at right now. And BA programs and re services.

[Claudine Herbelin] 15:09:37
It just it doesn't show the whole thing. I mean it it gets cut off. On my screen, but it might be the resolution I have.

[Claudine Herbelin] 15:09:45
So the Veterans, Services kind of dropped off at the beginning, but I can kind of figure out what.

[Perigean Technologies] 15:09:45
Hmm.

[Perigean Technologies] 15:09:49
Okay.

[Claudine Herbelin] 15:09:51
What they are basically.

[Perigean Technologies] 15:09:54
But still not ideal.

[Claudine Herbelin] 15:09:59
I don't know if there's anything further over to the right because I Leave it over there.

[Perigean Technologies] 15:10:06
Right.

[Claudine Herbelin] 15:10:07
Although, oh, there we go. So, okay, so see with the way I chatted, I couldn't see the in crisis talk to someone now.

[Claudine Herbelin] 15:10:15
Okay, so that whole column. I could not see on my. Phone. But normally when I can't see something like that on the phone, I can just kind of

[Perigean Technologies] 15:10:15
Hmm.

[Claudine Herbelin] 15:10:29
Scroll to the left and Yeah, I don't. Okay, yeah, so that's good.

[Claudine Herbelin] 15:10:38
Now it shows part of it.

[Perigean Technologies] 15:10:39
Hmm, yeah, that is weird. It just must be coded weird. So, We'll have that so it's easier for people kind of zoom in a little bit.

[Claudine Herbelin] 15:10:43
Yeah.

[Claudine Herbelin] 15:10:48
Yeah, cause I'm, I'm, I'm zoomed out as far as I can go to see it.

[Claudine Herbelin] 15:10:54
So. But I think this also might be something. Particularly with the settings I have on my phone is sometimes I come across websites that I have to go to the landscape mode.

[Perigean Technologies] 15:10:54
Hmm.

[Claudine Herbelin] 15:11:07
I think, and but not on everyone. So I think it's just like, said maybe the way they're coded and the way my My phone is not up so

[Perigean Technologies] 15:11:07
Hmm.

[Perigean Technologies] 15:11:15
Yeah, and also, another thing to remember too is this isn't the actual like website.

[Perigean Technologies] 15:11:22
This is just a prototype. So chances are this prototype is coded a little differently the web and then the website and that's what's causing the issues.

[Claudine Herbelin] 15:11:31
Well, that's the thing I, I could think of down there. Everything else. Thank you.

[Perigean Technologies] 15:11:35
Cool.

[Claudine Herbelin] 15:11:41
There. What's under the menu? I click it and there's nothing there. What would be there?

[Perigean Technologies] 15:11:45
Yeah, I was kind of surprised that it didn't open. When you clicked it because I thought it was supposed to.

[Perigean Technologies] 15:11:53
But let me ask you first, what would you expect to be there?

[Claudine Herbelin] 15:11:56
Any other options that aren't listed in that ribbon? It would be, most.

[Claudine Herbelin] 15:12:05
Most frequently used or. After by people going on to the to the website.

[Perigean Technologies] 15:12:14
Hmm, yeah.

[Claudine Herbelin] 15:12:16
And I just go to the menu to see what other options there are because something we're surprised. Oh, I can do that here too.

[Perigean Technologies] 15:12:23
Right.

[Claudine Herbelin] 15:12:24
So, I mean, it might just be a duplicate of the appointments messages in that, but.

[Claudine Herbelin] 15:12:30
Yes, I tend to do the menu.

[Perigean Technologies] 15:12:35
Yeah, yeah, so that menu to answer your question. You know, typically when you're using VA.

[Perigean Technologies] 15:12:44
Dot gov on a mobile device and it's getting kind of skinnier in width. This is the menu that has kind of like all the different types of benefits within it.

[Perigean Technologies] 15:12:54
So if you were looking, if you were looking on it, at it on a desktop, it wouldn't say menu, I think it would say like VA benefits and healthcare or something.

[Claudine Herbelin] 15:12:54
Oh, okay.

[Claudine Herbelin] 15:13:02
Okay.

[Perigean Technologies] 15:13:03
And you could look through there for all the different benefits.

[Claudine Herbelin] 15:13:05
Oh, okay. Okay. Yeah.

[Perigean Technologies] 15:13:09
I'm really cool to hear your thoughts about that though, so I'm glad you point it out.

[Claudine Herbelin] 15:13:13
Yeah, I just. I mean, sometimes it's, you know, what's already on the screen, so.

[Claudine Herbelin] 15:13:20
And it's just when the menu just list things that are already right there in front of you and your base, if it had other things on there.

[Perigean Technologies] 15:13:31
Hmm.

[Claudine Herbelin] 15:13:33
Maybe in addition to the Okay.

[Perigean Technologies] 15:13:41
Yeah, that makes sense.

[Perigean Technologies] 15:13:44
Okay, cool.

[Claudine Herbelin] 15:13:44
And I like the way.

[Claudine Herbelin] 15:13:49
Okay. Remember the other Great, but. Cause insecure messaging the way I do it now or the way I have done it.

[Claudine Herbelin] 15:14:03
In the few months ago. Insecure messaging, you're only in secure messaging.

[Claudine Herbelin] 15:14:12
So then you have to exit secure messaging to get back to the healthy. Where all the options are.

[Perigean Technologies] 15:14:18
Oh.

[Claudine Herbelin] 15:14:19
So I like that I can just go straight up from. You know, reading the email. And then, okay, let me just go up here and click appointments.

[Perigean Technologies] 15:14:29
Hmm.

[Claudine Herbelin] 15:14:30
It's a lot, you know, streamline because it's right. There, I don't have to go looking.

[Claudine Herbelin] 15:14:37
Okay, now where do I find that again? Right there.

[Perigean Technologies] 15:14:38
Right. Okay, cool. Yeah.

[Claudine Herbelin] 15:14:43
As the secure messaging when I first started using it. Notice, not a standalone one, but you had to.

[Claudine Herbelin] 15:14:51
Even when you logged in to the healthy vet website, then you had to get another login to get into your messaging.

[Claudine Herbelin] 15:14:57
And then you were while you're in secure messaging. The other page might time out. So.

[Claudine Herbelin] 15:15:05
By the time you got by the time I would get finished typing my message, I would lose it because the other the main screen had timed out with.

[Perigean Technologies] 15:15:12
Hmm.

[Claudine Herbelin] 15:15:13
As the message, the secure messaging was on a separate tab. So.

[Perigean Technologies] 15:15:17
Oh, I see. Oh, that sounds so frustrating.

[Claudine Herbelin] 15:15:21
Yeah. It was. So. Yeah.

[Perigean Technologies] 15:15:23
Yeah. I bet.

[Claudine Herbelin] 15:15:28
And I take a long time to to write things just because my I have to process things and try to.

[Claudine Herbelin] 15:15:34
Make sure that they make sense to somebody else reading it? Cause it makes sense to me, but you know.

[Claudine Herbelin] 15:15:43
I don't always come across very clearly. So. Just being able to go straight from.

[Claudine Herbelin] 15:15:47
The message that Dr. Smith sent. About okay I can look at my test results oh a part of their records okay and then schedule appointment oh right there with appointments That's awesome.

[Perigean Technologies] 15:16:02
Cool. Great. That's good to hear. Okay, cool.

[Claudine Herbelin] 15:16:02
I like that.

[Perigean Technologies] 15:16:07
Well, Claudine, I'm glad that your Wi-Fi work their whole session because this is so This was really helpful.

[Claudine Herbelin] 15:16:12
Hey, I know.

[Perigean Technologies] 15:16:15
So thank you so much for taking the time.

[Perigean Technologies] 15:16:18
And I hope the other rest of your day.

[Claudine Herbelin] 15:16:20
Okay, I have a person you might not know that but


