# P1 Interview Transcript

## Warm-up Questions - 5 minutes
   
M. What experience do you have with VA.gov (or the VA mobile app)?
   
P: I do not use the mobile app. I have gone on VA.gov sometimes.

M:  And what kinds of things are you going there for?

P: Trying to check on like education benefits and what's kind of available. But sometimes it's somewhat convoluted trying to get to the right place.

M: Yeah, I definitely heard that before.

P:It's even hard to log in to the account sometimes. So I don't know.

M: Do you receive VA healthcare?

P: Yes

M: Okay and do you have experience with My HealtheVet?

P: Yeah, I know what it is. 

M: Do you log on there at all or not?

P: Not really. I usually do stuff face to face.

M; Okay great, thanks for answering those questions. 

## Opens Prototype B first (w/ icons)

### Task 0: Messages - 5 mins 

M: I want you to pretend that this is an email. So you receive this in your email account and you can go ahead and read it and follow the prompt.

P: Do I click a view message?

M: Yeah, go for it.

P: I actually wouldn't click on this because it looks fake so I would not cause my physician I mean they can call me I or I will call them and say I don't think I would ever click on this but for me to click on this.

M: Know it's safe in this case. But that's a really good instinct 

P: Yes, yes, too many. Yes, too many logins. Makes you go to this id me, or just log in Gov, and then id.me sucks. So I, yeah.

M: Yeah, I know I'm sorry. It's frustrating. We're trying to work it out. There's a few teams working on it, but I know it's so frustrating so you can go ahead and just click any of these buttons. And it's just kind of simulating a log on process. So this isn't a real website. It just looks kind of like a website. So it's just gonna act a little different.

M: So yeah, I want you to do what you're doing. Look around and tell me if this is kind of what you'd expect clicking on that link and landing here.

P: Yeah, I'm on X ray results. So yeah I would expect it to be kind of short. And what's the word general. They wouldn't be too specific. But yeah. They'd probably tell you to contact them. Because who knows who's looking at this?

M: And then I just want, I'm I'm just curious how you would describe this website you landed on from your email.

P: What do you mean describe it?

M: So what is this website? What is it for getting? 

P: Well, This looks like it's my test results, medical results. So I'm guessing. Here you can go labs X-rays, you know. So like a place to see your labs and X-rays and maybe other health stuff, I guess that's correct


### Task 1: Find x-ray - 15 mins
_Medical records > Lab and test results > locate x-ray result for scan of left ankle_

M: great. so I'm gonna give you a task. That I'd love to see if you can try to find where you would go to look at your images from your X-ray. If you wanted to go like, read the report.  and before you click on anything, I just like to hear what you're looking for. So just think out loud.

P: Well. I guess I'd have to go back to the inbox.

M: sorry some some things aren't aren't gonna work, but it's really helpful to know that that would be. The instinct is to go back to the inbox.

P: I don't see on here where I could see the X-ray says, back to what is this back to top? Because, yeah, I'm not moving it. I'm not printing it. I'm not trashing it. So I don't see where I would be able to actually, see maybe medical records

P:   your lab and test results, vaccines allergies.

M: And what are you looking for? 

P: Here is like, is there like a X-rays, like a specific word, or something just like X-ray, It says, Lab and test results. So here we go here. lab and test results. Radiology images. Okay, Great.

M: Yeah. And it sounded like you. You were looking for the word X-ray. But it's not actually in the in that text there. So I'm curious, kind of like what indicated to you to click there lab and test results. 

P: I wouldn't necessarily know that X-ray would be included in that list, the black and test results. But sounds like okay.

M: cool great, that's helpful.

### Task 2: Make appointment - 5 mins
_Labs and tests result > Appointments_

M: so I'm gonna give you another task. For the next one, i want you to imagine that you want to make a follow up appointment with your doctor. and I want you to just show me where you would go to do that.

P: Let's see here. Well, I guess appointments. And what, doctor am I trying to make an appointment with?

M: yeah, that same doctor. 

P: So radiology, Doctor Smith, is that radiology? It's not clicking. Well, I guess I'd have to go start scheduling.

M: Yeah, cool. And and that's as far as the task goes. Actually. so I don't want to make you keep keep looking and looking when you already found it. Yeah, that's exactly

### Task 3: Order CPAP supplies from VA - 5 mins 
_Home > Order CPAP supplies_

M: I'm gonna give you one more task. Which is, I want you to imagine that you need to order Cp supplies to help you breathe when you're sleeping. So where would you go to order those supplies

P: would probably be on the medications

M: Tell me more about that. Tell me why you picked medication?

P: Well, because it's a form of medication, even though it's not like a pill, or whatever it's I don't know. I just see it as medications.

M: Totally. Yeah. so this page is just a blank page. so it's kind of indicating you want to try a new path.

P: So what am I looking for? Again? I'm looking to order the cpac to help me breathe. 

M: Yeah. So you're looking to order some supplies, some health supplies. It's for the Cpap machine. But in your head you can just think you know different health supplies.

P: Well, I guess maybe, would it be messages? I'd have to message someone, because if it's not under medication cause they don't let you order your own medications. Anyway, you have to message somebody. so I'd have to message my doctor and say, Hey, I need this. We’ll, put the order in. I'm guessing

M: I'm curious, you know that blue bar that has appointments, messages, medication Correct. do you see where it says my healthevet?

P: Yes.

M: Do you think that that is a button, or is it just a label? 

P: I see it as a way to maybe get back to the beginning.

M: Okay. back to the beginning.

P: Like to get back to the message. So yeah, so if you want to just start all over. But but without logging out. I see it as a way to get back to the beginning. Like, if you get caught up in some stuff you're not sure where you are.

M: You could click on that, and it would get you back in the beginning. And then see where, right underneath that blue bar there's that link to go back.

P: Oh, back to my health event. Okay, so maybe it's just a label.

M: Well, I just wanted to ask you what you would guess the differences if it is a button.

P: Well, this one.  this one, by having the line under it tells you can click on it and it takes you back. So I guess this is just a name of it. Maybe it could be over here up here. But I guess that's fine. That doesn't matter. And it's also here, too. So it doesn't matter. Yeah. But this takes you back. Okay? So that's just a label. Just a name.

M: Okay, great. So go ahead and click on that link for me back to my help you got home. and I just want you to take a minute to explore this page. and I'd love to hear what you're thinking as you as you're looking, if you.

P: Well, it seems to have everything on the main page. I'm Sally, okay. Well, it has appointments. That's good messages. So yeah. I don't think these appointments are up to date cause I get emails all the time about appointments. And they're not right. I don't know how often they update these appointments, so I wouldn't go by what this would say for appointments. I would have tomaybe just call and have them read off what what they see? Because I get emails about appointments that or not. Right  Medical records, payments. medical supplies and equipment. Okay. it looks like a good first page. Main page.

M: Yeah, I'm curious about So thinking again about that task, of where you'd go to order cpac supplies or other kind of health supplies. If you see a place on this page where you might do that?

P: Oh, to order cpac supplies. Well, right here, medical supplies and equipment. and it actually has here order. Cpac supplies it. Lets you order that cause. I'm guessing. People that need that have an order in so they can order it when they run low. I would think your doctor would have to put the order in.

M: Yeah, you're exactly right. The doctor puts the order in first, and then you can kind of renew that order.

P: So so go ahead and click that order. Cpf supplies link and just take a quick look at this page.


### Prototype 1 closing questions - 2 minutes

M: and I just want to ask you if you if you're on the same website that you started on. or if you left me or somewhere else? 

Tech issues. Reshare screen 

M: Okay, cool. We are back. So go ahead. And then, right before your Internet died. For a minute. I was wanting to ask you if this is feeling like it's the same website, or if it feels like you left.

P: I think it looks. I think it looks the same. And how do you know it? Just kind of looks the same. I mean, you know, it may be different, but it just kinda looks the same.

M: And how would you get back to that? That page that has like all the boxes?

P: I don't know. Maybe I would back arrow. maybe back arrow. Yeah, or maybe

M: Okay.

P: okay, great. Okay. So I just have a few questions for you to wrap up looking at this version of the site, and then we'll switch Okay, so I guess the first thing I'm curious are things that you've done before. Things like scheduling an appointment online and messaging your doctor ordering supplies. Is that something you've done before?


M: I've never scheduled anything online. I will call them.

P: Yeah.

M: yeah, I know you said you'd really prefer things to do things face to face right, right? 

P: Or you know, the telephone and the I'm not too far from the clinic here, so sometimes I'll just drive by. I'm only like 5 min away. So that's not a problem. Okay. And then. could you actually click the back button for me on the screen?
M:  I'm sorry. Just want you to scroll to the top. I just have a question about something on the screen. So I noticed. you know you, you stayed within that kind of lighter blue bar. and I'm wondering you didn't click anything above it. I'm wondering why that is like, or rather, what I'm wondering is, what do you think the differences between like the dark

P:  blue and the light blue bars?

M: Yeah, this is general. 

P: So this is like, maybe somebody who doesn't have Va healthcare that wants to get in or not sure about certain benefits. I guess they would go here. You're gonna be moving and wanted to maybe find out if there's a Va hospital or clinic near where you're gonna move to, or something like that. Yeah. So so that the top one is general. 

M: So how would you kind of describe the the lighter bottom one

P: the lighter bottom one is for someone who is already in va healthcare and has appointments, you know, has had you know, appointments, or they always do lab work, no matter what. But this is for someone that's already in the system. This, the top is for some one that's not in the system. Or maybe it's been a while since I've been in the system, and they need to update or whatever.

M: Okay, great. And then what would you guess? Do you see in the top? Right? There's that. It's there's kind of like a little icon. And it says, Sally.

P: right 

M: I'm curious what you would guess that's for

P: I'm guessing. Would this be like my basic profile - my address, my phone, maybe my email, maybe the clinic I'm out of. II would think this would be general specific information in reference to me.

M: Great, very helpful. Okay, Awesome. last thing I want to ask you is on a scale of one to 5, one being easy, 5 being difficult. How would you rate the difficulty of finding what you were looking for. 

P: I'd say 2. 

M: Okay. And why that rating?

P:  I don't really see it hard, but I don't see it being excessively easy, easy, easy, but it's it's more easy than hard. That's why I say, two.

M: okay. And is there anything that you would change to make it easier?

P:  you mean on this page here.

M:  like anywhere on the site?

P: Well, I mean, when you know you have those 4 choices to log in that is very convoluted, because depending on which one you click in, you may never get anywhere. So but on this page here, this is okay. This is  very  to the point.

M: okay. Great. Is there anything that I haven't asked you about here that you'd like to share?

P: No, I like how they keep saying, How do you?




-----

## Tasks for Prototype 2 

M: Alright, I am. Gonna send you a second link now. So I want you to just do the kind of same thing. Go to your chat, find that link and go ahead and open it

P: is that it? 

M :Yeah. So in a lot of ways. This is gonna look very similar. There's just like very slight changes. So and we're gonna just do the exact same tasks as last time. So I want you to again look for your X-ray images and report my X-ray images.

P: Okay.

M: okay, great looks like you found them. What? If anything felt different this time. Or did it feel the same completing this task? It?  

P: It felt  the same. 

M: Okay, great and then I'm gonna ask you again to go ahead and schedule. Go where you'd need to go to schedule an appointment with your doctor.

P: Alright.

M: great! And then the one final task is where you'd go to order cpac supplies.

P:  okay. Great.

M: anything that you noticed that felt different at all. Doing those tasks this time 

P: [Unclear]

M Great! Could you? Hit the back button on your browser a couple of times now I wanna ask you see how there's the home button all the way to the left in that bar. I'm curious if that reads to you as a button or as a label.


P: it's a button, cause my hand comes up.

M: Oh, okay, yeah. I see. Okay, great. So now you've seen these kind of 2 approaches. They're very similar with some kind of very small differences. And I'm curious what your thoughts are about them

P: in reference to what

M: you know like, did it feel intuitive for you to get around. Was there? Yeah? Or what were there kind of like big questions or unknowns, and trying to get around to these different tasks.

P: I just think the first time, maybe kind of convoluted, but if you do it a couple of times, you just understand how it how it is, and it's just easier.

M: Okay.I'm curious for this version. You know, you rated the last one or 2,this one on a scale of one to 5, one being easy, 5 being difficult. How would you rate the difficulty of of using this one and finding

P: I'm still gonna say it two

M: Okay, great.

M: And would anything make that easier?

P: You know, I don't know. It's just you do it a couple of times, and it just becomes easier. Y

M: I have a few kind of wrap up questions to ask you here. if you were talking to a friend who is also a veteran  and use this site to schedule appointments or something How would you tell them to find it? You know, assuming that they don't have a link in their email to get to it.

P: you know, I don't know. Is this something that you can go through? My, what is it, my my gov, that I'm not sure how I would tell someone to to get to it, cause I don't. I don't know how they would get to it. Yeah, maybe. Yeah. I don't know if they can go right on my health vet. Maybe they can. I don't know. And then you have to find a way to log in and pick one of those 4 logins see that's the issue with me, those 4 logins, you know.

M: yeah, yeah,

P: yeah, I guess you know, if you were just gonna say. I don't know, if you can log in. but you can Google, this and you'll probably find it.

M: What would you tell a friend to Google? 

P: I would probably just tell them to go to my healthe vet. Let's see where that takes them.

M: Okay, great  And if you're talking to a friend again, just like last time, who's also a veteran who wants to use these tools. How would you describe the relationship between this site and Va.gov? If there is a relationship there?

P: I don't. I don't know. I'm guessing this can go through. va.gov. I'm guessing I don't know.so I don't. I don't know va.gov if as long as you and if you know where you're going, it can be okay. But sometimes you can get stuck in a loop there.


M: Yeah.

P: yeah, II have definitely been stuck in a loop there before myself. So I I relate absolutely.

M I'm just waiting a minute because just to see if anybody has any other questions before I let you go. Looks like maybe they don't, which is great. Is there anything I didn't ask you about that you'd like to share?

M: No, no, it's interesting.
