## Warm-up questions
Let’s start with a few questions... 
   
1. What experience do you have with VA.gov (or the VA mobile app)?

P:  VA.Gov is, you know, the place where I can, you know, go to get information and stuff like that, a lot of information. Some of it kind of confuses some of it. You can, kinda you know, figure out what it is.

M: Is there anything specific you look for information around?

P: Well, I just, you know, make sure my benefits and stuff is still there. If I need to print out a letter, you know, to show that that you know that I'm a veteran and stuff like that, I can always go there. I do that every 6 months to a year to have a fresh letter always, but I can print it at any time, and it always gives a first date like that. So and just mainly see if there's any messages for me that maybe I didn't get, or they needed to get in contact with me or something, I'd try to go there and see.

M: And have you ever heard of my healthy vet?

P: I believe so I believe so.

M: Okay, do you know if you are of my healthy vet user? have you ever logged in there as far as you know?

P: I'm not for sure; Since they consolidated a lot where you could log in now with the Id.me and all these other ones, I'm not sure if I ever did or not. 

M: Do you receive VA health care?

P: Yes

M: If you need to talk to your doctor or something like that, how do you go about doing that?

P: I would have to call in or set up an appt to be able to speak w someone.

M: Do you call your local VA medical center? 

P: Yeah, yeah.
   
## Start with prototype A

### Task 0: Messages - 5 mins 

M: Okay, here we go. So let's just go ahead and get started. So I know that this probably does not look like a typical email. I'm sure you're used to like Gmail or Yahoo, or something like that. But I just want you to imagine that this is an email you received in your inbox of your typical you know, email account. So go ahead and just read it over and follow the prompt.

P: Hm okay, alright. 

M: [sign in screen comes up after P clicks link in email]: Does this screen look familiar to you?

P: Yeah, this is why I was saying, like the old logins, id.me

M: Okay, so you can go ahead and click any of those buttons, and it will let you go through. You can just click on any of those kind of colorful buttons.

M: Okay, so I just want you to like, look around here where you landed a little bit and I'm curious to hear from you like, if this is where you'd kind of expect to go. Having clicked that link in your email. Or if this is kind of surprising.

P: well, I clicked the the I guess the login screen. But it took me right to the you know, X ray results, you know. I understand it's like a simulation and stuff, but I think it would have prompted me to log in and then go to the main landing page.

M: Well, that was interesting. So when you log in, you expect to go to the main landing page, even though you clicked that link from your email

P: Yeah, yeah

M: I just want you to look around a little looking around a little bit, if you could describe to me like what this website is just based on what you're seeing.

P: It just looks like it's a website inside a website, really, and a place where you can view your messages, delete your messages, read them, and see if it's something you need to keep.

M: Okay great. So now I'll have you read that message if you haven't yet

P: Okay



### Task 1: Find x-ray - 15 mins
_Medical records > Lab and test results > locate x-ray result for scan of left ankle_

M: So next I'd like you to try to, on this website, locate the x-ray results that you dr. smith is talking about in that message and I'd love to hear like what you're looking for as you look around.

P: Well, I'm I'm looking to see if there's any hyperlinks, if not, then what I would do is go back to back to Inbox, and you know, click on. click on that to see if there's anything.

M: Yeah. Can you tell me a little bit? I mean in the prototype that link unfortunately, doesn't work. I'm sorry about that. But can you tell me a little bit about what you'd expect to see if you went back to Inbox.

P: I'd expect to see all of my messages again, and then maybe would have been another message, a separate message that actually had the - if it wasn't in this message - had the link to the X-rays in there. I didn't see anything. So I would assume, okay, maybe it's a double message that they're sending.

M: Anywhere else you'd expect to see those results? You know if it didn't come through email? \

P:I would probably click where it says menu in in in the top right to see dropdowns for lab, labs or something like that. And I could go there for lab results or stuff like that.

M: And that's what you're looking for, like as you kind of look around. You're looking for the word labs. Is that right?

P: Something related with X-rays, since there's some kind of results. So I figured labs, cause labs could cover multiple things X-rays, medicine, or you know, blood work or stuff like that. So it'd be all under one. Then you would click on that case out. Then multiple screenings where I did lab work. I mean, I did blood work. I did your analysis. I did X-rays, or maybe put all of those under lab. you know, under labs or lab works. Then I can go there to see and then have it dated so I can look what's the most recent.

(He wasn't able to find where to go bc "inbox" breadcrumb didn't work and he didn't find anything else that he might click on)

### Task 2: Make appointment - 5 mins
_Labs and tests result > Appointments_

M: I have another task for you and for this one I want you to imagine that you want to make a follow up appointment with your doctor. Where would you go to do that? 

P: I would just click on the reply.

M: Oh, right. You can write just right back to Dr. Smith

P: Yeah, I could say I need to set something up please let me know what date and time is best. And do it from there.

M: That makes so much sense and seems so logical right? But that's not actually how it works on this website. There's actually a place on the website where you can digitally schedule the appointment. 

P: I would just click on the menu again and let's see.... click on My healthevet and then appointments. And then they have all the pending ones, past ones, and then they start scheduling. 

M: I'm curious to hear your thoughts about this. You usually call to make an appointment? Can you imagine using a screen like this or would you prefer to call? 

P: Well, yeah, cause nobody wants to be on the phone for so long and getting placed on hold. Or you know, people that may not have the best attitude, so this would be in my leisure. I can do it in the middle of the night. I can do it at lunch break whatever. It would make my experience a lot easier. you know, when interacting with the va.

M: great that's really helpful


### Task 3: Order CPAP supplies from VA - 5 mins 
_Home > Order CPAP supplies_

* M: The next task is the final one to complete with this version of the site. Please imagine you need to order CPAP supplies to help you breathe when you are sleeping. Where would you go to order those supplies?
* **P7: I see refills, and medications or allergies might just list what I'm allergic too...and here we go. Medical supplies...CPAP supplies. So I'll click on that and it looks like I can order by phone or by mail.** 
* M: I'm curious if now eploring this page, does it feel like thes ame website, or does it feel like a different site? 
* **P7: Feels like a different site. It's more basic and there are new words. It feels like a site inside of a site.** 
* M: A site within a site?
* **P7: Yeah, and I guess that works for people of all ages.**
* M: And you said you ezpected this to be under Medications. Could yo usay a little bit more about that? 
* **P7: Yeah, I think I thought that, but maybe I just have to get used to it.** 
* **P7: Maybe if they had a tab that said "last visited" and people coul kind of see what they had clicked last and wouldn't have to remember.** 
* M: Totally, cool. Yeah. I really like that idea. Awesome. 
* M: Could you click back on your browser a couple of times? 
* **P7:** *[clicks back to appointments screen]*
* M: I wanted to. circle bakc to the one that we didn't get to. I'm wondering if now that you've moved around the site if that would be easier for you to do now. 
* **P7:** *[Clicks to My HealtheVet home from breadcrumbs and navigate to Lab & test results links]* 
* M: Before we move on, I'm wondering if these are typical tasks for you. Are these things you've done before on a patient portal? 
* **P7: Never done it before at the VA. I don't really use it a lot. I mainly focus on whether or not my benefits are still there. I haven't really done any x-rays or anything like that. I think back in the day I could see medications and stuff, but I don't really take medications anymore. But I would be able to see okay this is what I have and this is how many refills I have left if this one runs out and stuff like that.** 

### Prototype 1 closing questions - 2 minutes

M: You said before that this was a site within a site. Could you say more about that? 
P7: I'm just saying it looks really bland. I'm not saying it has to be Instagram or anything like that. But when you go to ID.me, that's more exciting. This just...it looks like it's going to deliver some bad news. 
M: [Laughs] Yeah, thank you. 
M: When you say it's a site within a site, where do you think you are? Or if I could rephrase that...what's the relationships between this site and VA.gov? 
P7: I think it's just a branch of it. Things just seem crammed in there ... so... just trying to get everything on that one screen. 
M: What's indicating to you that this is a branch of VA.gov? 

M: You mentioned the My HealtheVet. Do you see that kind of arrow pointing down next to it? [referring to nav bar]. What would you guess that arrow means?

P7: [clicks into it, then responds] It just means it’s a dropdown and here you see medications, appointments, medical records.

M: Okay, great. And on a ascale of 1-5 what would you rate the difficult?

P7: You said one is easy?

M: Yeah

P7: I would say 2.

M: Okay, could you tell me why?

P7: I would say it’s pretty easy to get to the stuff, but there is a lot of hidden things in there, that unless you knew how to click on the arrow to get the dropdown or click the menu to see things. I would probably work better with a couple of tabs at the top where I could click on those that might make it easier for people to see. Or maybe even have it in both places. Kind of like Yahoo you just go there and see the sports section. There’s not a lot of dropdowns they are just there.

M: And you are saying that the My HealtheVet there with the dropdown is not so easy for yo uto find.

P7: Yeah, because iwth the arrow it’s hidden. I’ve been on a lot of sites so I kind of know that but someone older may not know that. They’re just going to click the VA button and go somewhere they probably don’t want to go and now they have to find out how to get back to their lab results.

M: Is there anything we didn’t get to that you want to tell me about this site we looked at?

P7: No, that’s pretty good.

M: Okay great, I’m going to put a new link in the Zoom chat for you to look at.

P7: opens link

M: I just want you to walk me through this and tell me what you’re seeing here on this screen. Is anything different or the same?

P7: Okay, it looks about the same. But it looks like there are these icons now at the top. That’ what I’m talking about with these tabs at the top. IT makes it easier if they were to cal lit in and try to find what they’r eloking for. If they call in someone could help them and say “Hey Mr. Smith, cyou see that little pill bottle at the top? You click on that.” That would be much easier for me.

  

M: Okay, great that’s really helpful.

M: For hte next task, I want to see if it is intuitive for you to try and find your x-ray results.

P7: umm…i am assuming I would click on records. [clicks] and that is just a guess. But I think for the average person, I don’t know if that’s my military records from when I was in the service? But maybe it could say records/labs to make it a little easier. That way you don't have to put a whole nother tab of labs.

M: I love how many ideas you’re offering! That’s awesome.

P7: No problem, just want to make it easier. A lot of people, you know they come to the site and how they grew up they didn’t even have color tv. Yo utell them go to the site, go to the site, adn nwo they gotta log in and find all this stuff. That’s why you use these little tabs it makes it way easier for people to find these things. LIke the little calendar. But for hte records yo ucould either keep that or /labs or something like that.

M: Okay, great very helpful.

M: Okay, next task I want you to go where you would schedule an appointment with your doctor.

P7: [clicks appointments in nav bar] I would just go here and click “start scheduling”

M: Okay, great. The last task is ordering those CPAP supplies.

P7: I would go to medicine, and …oh…hmm

M: Yeah, this page isn’t built out in the prototype. If medications didn’t have what you wanted, where would you go?

P7: umm…I could check records…hmmm…nope. [clicks breadcrumb to go back to My HelatheVet home]

P7: [scrolls down on landing page] okay, Medical supplies…and CPAP supplies. That one was a little more difficult because I would have to know to go to that main screen to find that.

M: Okay, yeah - could yo ugo back a few more times?

P7: Uh huh.

M: On this page you clicked that link on the top that says “Back to My HealtheVet” - did yo uknow what to expect when you clicked that?

P7: I thought I was going back to the main hub area where I might be able to find how to get to that. Like just like Yahoo when I go to the main area I can see how to find the sports, th weather.

M: I’m curious if yo ucould scroll up. Yo usee where it says “My HealtheVet” at the top?

P7: uh huh.

M: I’m curious if you think that is a link or not?

P7: To me, no that is not a link.

M: Okay, that’s helpful.

P7: I probably would hyperlink that or make it a button. I just assume the appointments and meds are actual links but the My HealtheVet I would not assume that is an actual link, it’s just the name of that actual tab [probably means bar?] either make it a link or a rectangular button of its own.

M: That makes sense, awesome.

M: Rate difficulty

P7: 1.

M: Why that rating?

P7: It’s a lot faster. And those tabs - before you even showed me I was saying you need tabs for people to be able to recognize that and feel comfortable clicking on it and it’s not going to do any damage. To me it’s a lot faster for me to get to where I needed to go to.

M: Okay, great.

## Interview closing questions - 5 minutes

M: Do you have any other thoughts?

P7: I would say the second one is the best. whatever you do don’t come out with the first one. Definitely the second one. I’m just thinking about hte customer’s experience if htey had to navigate. Or if the yhad to call and get help, the second one is going to give a better experience.

M: Okay, great. ooops I thiknk you’re breaking up a bit.

P7: I’m here.

M: Great.

M: In this version, there are some abbreviations in that bar. I am wondering about your comfort level or familairity iwth those abbreviations.

P7: You talking about the app? the appointments?

M: Mhmm yeah.

M: Are you familiar wit hthat abbreviation?

P7: Yeha, I thin kwith teh calendar that works and I knew what that meant. I’d probably put reocrds/labs as the second one and put messages as the last one.

M: What is the third one?

P7: My meds? yeah my medications like a pill bottle. That’s kind of a universal symbol people could recognize. I’d make that the second one. Because people probably schedule appointments adn get meds more , and then records, and then message.

M: Is meds an abbreviation you’ve herad before?

P7: Yeah that’s recognizable in different places and stuff.

M: Okay, great. I just have a couple more questions here. I want you to image you are talking to a friend who is also a friend who wants to send a message or schedule an appt with their doctor. How would you descsribe to them how to find this site? Assuming they didn’t get the link in their email like you did.

P7: I would tell them they can go to VA.gov or they can do a Google search for My HealtheVet, you know. And then click on that and then to log in that way. And once the yget there, especially if you do this second prototype, they’ll see where they need to go once they get there. That’s the thing that first minute or tow you can’t find what I’m looking for .I keep bringing up Yahoo and I don’t have those tabs or links that I’m looking for, then Im probably not going to visit it. It’s another site I’m not familiar with and it’s too hard to get in. So it will have less viewership.

M: Is there anything else I didn’t ask you about that you’d like to share?

P7: No thats pretty much it. Like I said you guys want to keep striving to improve the site and keeping it simple and inviting colors are good. Even if you made the little meds icon orange instead of white so I could recognize that. Maybe a green and a red or you know, like one of them is the iPhone color and the other is the Android color. Stuff like that…Appointments, maybe you have some lines in there to show that it is a calendar and not a wall plug for your charger…

M: Oh wow I can totally see that now. It could look like a charger!

P7: Little things like that to make it more recognizable. Records is okay, but so people kind of know and can go to that place. Or if you have enough real-estate to add a couple of more icons above this where labs or x-rays or something else you would want to …maybe people don’t know they have to scroll all the way down here to do that.

M: Thank you so much for everything today. [ends interview]
Markdown 16216 bytes 3080 words 253 lines Ln 119, Col 40HTML 12775 characters 3008 words 158 paragraphs
