## ## Background

-   On Desktop computer 
-   Sees prototype w/o icons first
    

## ## Warm-up Questions - 5 minutes
Let’s start with a few questions...

* M: What experience do you have with VA.gov (or the VA mobile app)?
* **P8: VA.gov, on the PACT Act I filed for 3 different disabilities, 3 separate times. So…it’s not a lot but it’s enough to kind of know what I’m doing.**
* M: Sure, and how often do you log in or go to VA.gov?
* **P8: Every now and then…and…oh wait that’s My HealtheVet that you order the medicine on.**
* M: Do you order medicine on My HealtheVet?
* **P8: Uh huh, yeah. I do a lot of back and forth w/ messages and stuff.**
* M: Gotcha - do you go on there a lot, about how often would you say?
* **P8: Maybe 3-4 times a month.**
* M: And are those different or the same?
* **P8: I think they’re different but you go in one to get to the other. I think VA.gov is more about the money but they’re connected.**
* M: Great, that makes sense.

## Tasks for Prototype 1

### Task 0: Messages - 5 mins

* M: Okay looks like you have the prototype open. I want you to start by imagining that you just received this email. Go ahead and read the email text and follow the prompt.
* **P8:** *[clicks view message link and goes to login modal]*
* M: Does this page look familiar to you?
* **P8: Yeah, I usually use My HealtheVet**
* M: I just want to stop you here for a second. That login modal, let’s just pretend that you logged in with your credentials and signed into the website if that makes sense. Does that make sense?
* **P8: Yep.**
* M: Okay cool. So you can go ahead and click that.
* **P8:** *[clicks through login modal to the secure message]*
* M: Is anything surprising about where you landed here?
* **P8: Normally you would hit some kind of inbox or something like that before this.**
* M: How would you describe where you landed here ? What is this website?
* **P8: This looks like its a note from your doctor and she wants to do a follow-up. Now here’s something that’s weird. That telehealth stuff from the VA - I’ve never been able to get it work but then we had to use the telephone or it didn’t work and we had to use the phone. It never worked. But now we got the problem done anyway, so it didn’t matter.**
* M: That’ so resourceful of you to figure that out. So just out of curiosity, if you were talking ot af ireland and trying to explain getting to this page and they didn’t have the link from their email, how would you describe where you’re at with the website?
* **P8: I’d probably tell them to click the inbox from the Messages and it would take you to this screen.**
* M: Okay, cool.
* **P8: I might be off a little bit.**
* M: no no that’s super important. Whatever your opinions are, there are no right or wrong answers. That’s super helpful. 
  

### Task 1: Find x-ray - 15 mins

* M: So now what I want you to do is…looking at this page, image you want to actually look at the images and read the report from your x-rays. And before you click anything I just want to hear what you're thinking and where you might start to look for that report.
* **P8: Well, I can’t remember but i think it’s the blue button report medical records that you could download and pull the records down and you could click and find review lab results or images, you could hit one of those.**
* M: Okay, could you click around to try and find and view those images on the site right now?
* **P8: Hmm...unless you hit "move"** *[observer note: page is scrolled down and he cannot see the navigation bar - he is referring to SM button to move a message]* **I don’t know…well wait, on top you’d hit medical records** *[referring to nav bar]* **and then lab & test results** *[clicks into that page]* **and then depending on what she was looking for depending on the date you’d click on the right one…let’s see.**
* M: Yeah, that’s not enabled because like I said its a prototype. But what were you looking for there ?
* **P8: X-rays and wherever those are that she took of you and you could look at them when they got done.**
* M: That’s super helpful. Thank you.


### Task 2: Make appointment - 5 mins

_Labs and tests result > Appointments_

M: For the next task, imagine that you want to make a follow-up appointment with your doctor. Show me where you'd go to do that.

* **P8:** *[Clicks appointments in the blue bar and lands on Appointments page]* **I could click this. But..I might want to go back** *[then clicks breadcrumb back to go to MHV landing page].*
* M: What sent you to this page, does this look like what you expected?
* **P8: Yeah this look like the home main page.**
* M: Can you tell me what you were thinking there when you said you might want to go back?
* **P8: Well, you said to make an appointment but this page just says "upcoming appointments."**
* M: Do you see anywhere you might be able to make an appointment?
* **P8: Umm….I'm not sure.** *[scrolls up and down the page]*
* **P8: Well...maybe this “start scheduling”? I’m not sure I’d have to click it to see.**
* M: Great, yeah that link is not enabled but that is where you would go.

### Task 3: Order CPAP supplies from VA - 5 mins

_Home > Order CPAP supplies_

* M: The next task is the final one to complete with this version of the site. Please imagine you need to order CPAP supplies to help you breathe when you are sleeping. Where would you go to order those supplies?
* **P8:** *[Clicks medications]* **I would think here, but there is nothing here.**
* M: Anywhere else you would try?
* **P8: Probably try to go back to My Healthevet** *[clicks My HealtheVet text in the blue navigation bar - seeing the icon version here]* **to find some kind of pharmacy or medical supplies.** *[looks around]* **Yep, I see it here. Usually the main page is where you can find everything.**
* M: Okay, I’m going to have you scroll back to the appointments page. I’m curious that “My HealtheVet” over to the left there - can you tell mle why you clicked that?
* **P8: Well that seems like the main page and I like that. I don’t wnat to go too far off the trail or anything like that.**
* M: Are these the types of tasks you would typically do to manage your own care?
* **P8: Yeah.**
* M: So I noticed that in the … you know right now we’re kidn of pretending that..in the top right hand corner that says Sally. We’re pretending that we’re Sally. And I noticedt hat you didn’t really navigate up there. I was curious what you think would be up there before you click on it.
* **P8: I usually use the bigger one [visually] but I thin kclicking sally would get you to the same place. I am just older and like this way but yo ucould click this if you want.**
* M: On a scale of 1-5, 1 = easy and 5 = difficult, how would you rate the difficulty of finding what you were looking for in that site we just explored together?
* **P8: Probably a one......a one or a two. The hardest part is just logging into the site.**
* M: Yeah, I hear your frustration there. But just looking at this prototype that we’re looking at right now. Why did you give it a 1 or a 2?
* **P8: It’s relatively simple and you’re familiar with it. It’s kind of like…how do I put it? You’re used to doing something and that’s just what you do. Pattern, repetition. And if it works here** …*[trails off].*
* M: Mhmm…and where would you - if you were to describe to that friend again where you are on the website. How would you describe it to them?
* **P8: I’m in my HealtheVet on the appointments page. But this looks a lot bigger than reality. This is way bigger type and words** *[referring to the font size on the screen]* **than what’s on the real one.**
* M: what do you mean?
* **P8: When I log on it’s much smaller. But then when you’re old and dumb big looks better than small. And that’s probably why My HealtheVet would win** *[my attention]* **over Sally or this down arrow thing.**
* M: Totally makes sense.
* **P8: I was going to say that Sally thing looks kind of small with other stuff cluttered by it and if you click the wrong button who knows what would happen?**
* M: What worries you there ?
* **P8: Well, you hit Sally or Contact us and then…now I’m in the contact us.**
* M: And if I asked you now, where are you in the site?
* **P8: Still MyHealthevet in the contact us.**
* M: Okay, still My HelatheVet?
* **P8: Yeah.**

## Tasks for Prototype 2

* M: Okay, I'm getting ready to share the second link with you within the Zoom chat, just like last time. And again, just like last time, when you open the link it'll look like a website but it's just a prototype so you won't see your real information on the screens. I'm sending you the link now... This will probably look familiar but there are some slight differences.
  
### Task 0: Messages - 2 mins

M: Now we will walk through the same tasks using this version.
_Participant arrives on secure messaging page with message from doctor open_

### Task 1: Find x-ray - 5 mins

_Medical records > Lab and test results > locate x-ray result for scan of left ankle_

* M: How might you find your x-ray results on this version of the site?  
* **P8: I'd click medical records [does this] then click on the lab and test results** *[clicks that link]* **and then just click on what one you wanted to look at** *[referring to the lab & test results cards on the list view page for lab & test results].*
* M: Okay, and can you tell me what you were thinking when you went up to medical records and clicked on that?
* **P8: That’s … that’s where you would find your information at.**

### Task 2: Make appointment - 5 mins

_Labs and tests result > Appointments_

* M: Now, I want you to schedule an appointment with your doctor. How would you do that?

* **P8: Hmm…you could go up to the corner with Sally and click ‘My HealtheVet” don’t look like it works …oh it does** *[clicks that and goes to landing page]* **and then I’d find “schedule and manage appointments.”**
* M: I’m curious why you clicked Sally that time.
* **P8: Try something different.**
* M: Did you see the “Appointments” on the blue bar?
* **P8: Yeah**
* M: Why didn’t you click that?
* **P8: Just to do something different.**
* M: And what about that appointments link [in the navigation bar] - where would that send you?
* **P8: Same place, it’s just a different way to do it.**
* M: and if you clicked that MyVA where would that send you?
* **P8: Same place I think, but let’s go ahead and find out.** *[observer note: user pans over MyVA in the "Sally" menu but that link in prototype is not enabled]*
* **P8: It’s not idiot proof, but seems pretty easy.**
* M: Okay, that’s super helpful. And if you go back to that appointments page, if yo unwanted to order CPAP supplies…how would you do that?

  
### Task 3: Order CPAP supplies from VA - 5 mins

_Home > Order CPAP supplies_  

* **P8: You could go to home or you could go to pharmacy or medications and do that.** *[clicks medications in nav bar - notices this is wrong b/c there is nothing on that page and then clicks back to “home” in Design  w/o icons].*
* M: And now let’s go back to that appointments page, is there anything you notice about this version of the site that’s different from what we saw before?
* **P8: To me they look the same. But then it said pending and past and upcoming.**
* M: Oh, maybe i’ll direct your attention up to that lighter blue bar. Do you see anythign different there? Does it look different or about the same?
* **P8: It looks about the same.**
* M: Okay. On a scale of 1-5, 1 = easy and 5 = difficult, how would you rate the difficulty of finding what you were looking for in that site we just explored together?
* **P8: Maybe a difference would be it is smaller print or something? That seems about it but its still relatively easy. Probably 1.5, 2, 1.**
* M: And if I forced you to give me a reason, what would you say?
* **P8: Just the repetition of doing it. At first you’re going to try everything and get confused but after yo u do it a while you get used to it and it makes sense.**
* M: And the repetition…do you mean the site we’re looking at right now or when you go into My HealtheVet to order your medications?
* **P8: both of ‘em. It just take time and patience, but you can figure out where you’re going.**
* M: Well thank you so much for going through that with me.
** P8:** *[anecdote about military.com about the PACT act]*
  
## Interview closing questions - 5 minutes
  
* M: Did you find one version easier than another to use? Why?
* **P8: Not really, no. They’re about the same.**
* M: I wonder if you see that home, if you click that where would you think that would go?  
* **P8: It would go home.**
* M: what home page, how would you describe that?
* **P8: Oh, the My HealtheVet home page.**
* M: Okay, thank you for answering that. Now, if you were talking to a friend that is also a Veteran who wanted to use these tools, how would you describe the relationship between this site and the VA.gov?
* **P8: Google My HealtheVet …just put that in and it will take you there.**
* M: Okay yeah that makes sense. Let me go ahead and I’m going to have you…well actually before I have you stop sharing your screen. Is there anything else that we looked at today you’d want to share that I didn’t ask you about?
* **P8: No i’m good. I can't think of anything.
* M: Can you stop sharing your screen? Or actually…I’m going to share my screen with you. [takes screen control] okay, can you see these mountains?
* **P8: Yeah.**
* M: cool. I”m just oging to bring something over here. I know this might…can you see this okay? Is it too small?
* **P8: No, it’s fine.**
* M: let me just *[adjusts to mobile width]* Can you see my cursor? 
* P8: *[participant nod yes]* 
* M: Curious here if you could see this blue bar if you could tell me what this is here [shows icons with abbreviations on mobile design]
* ** P8: That first one would take you to your appointments. 
* M: What do you think about this abbreviation "appts"?
* **P8: that’s fine - looks like an abbreviation for appointments.**
* M: What about this one? *[points to “messages”]*
* **P8: You want to send a message to your provider or read a message from them**
* M: and this one? *[points to “meds”]*
* **P8: reorder your medications**
* M: And what about this last one? *[points to “records”]*
* **P8: that’s to look at your medical records.**
* M: Okay, and do you see any way to go back to that home page? 
* **P8: From here you go back to your inbox or go to Sally…one of the two.**
* M: Clicks Sally dropdown,
* **P8: Now I’d click ‘My HealtheVet” to go back there.**
* M: Does this My HelatheVet look clickable to you?
* **P8: yeah**
* M: why is that?
* **P8: It just does.**
* M: that’s super helpful.
* M: [Ends interview]
