## Background

-   Laptop, HP computer
    
## Warm-up Questions - 5 minutes

Let’s start with a few questions...

M: What experience do you have with VA.gov (or the VA mobile app)?

-   P14: Yes, originally got benefits through my service-connected disability. I got benefits and heard or read the VA app…when I was filing my disabilities and, you know, receiving letters and decision letters 10 days after the fact.
    

2. _If receive VA health care_: Do you have experience with My HealtheVet? 

-   P14: primarily use it to communicate with my MyHealtheVet physicians and as I mentioned with my service-connect disabilities there is a feature where I can download and print off my doctor’s notes pertaining to the visits that I had and use that as part of my …[trails off]
    
-   M: About how often do you go on My HealtheVet?
    
-   P14: I know that as far as renewing my medications and any time, let’s say my prescription has expired, instead of calling I’ll just write a note through My HealtheVet to see if I can have this prescription re-ordered or…I’m a diabetic so I’ll see if they can send me a pair of socks. So…
    
-   M: Thank you so much for that. I wondered if you had tried to originally tried to join this session on your phone?
    
-   P14: No, I didn’t the weather in Michigan is pretty bad, so…my original intent was to use the smart phone, but I had never joined a session on my Smartphone so I….well, let me take that back I have done that with my doctor.
    
-   M: Oh, like a telehealth appointment before?
    
-   P14: yes, gotcha.
    
-   M: So would the weather prevent you from using your smartphone?
    
-   P14: No, the weather is okay I am home.
    
-   M: Oh, gotcha. Would you be open to joining the session on your phone? We have a prototype we’d love to have you look at on your phone. And we can try to do that however is easiest.
    
-   P14: Yeah, I’m going to see if I can open that email on my phone…
    

### Screen sharing instructions - 5-10 minutes**

-   M: [facilitates joining on phone and screen-sharing - decide not to use mobile phone, too challenging, we will proceed with this as a desktop session]
  

## Tasks for Prototype 1


### Task 0: Messages - 5 mins

 * M: Okay looks like you have the prototype open. I want you to start by imagining that you just received this email. Go ahead and read the email text and follow the prompt.

* P14: Okay, [clicks “view message”] it’s asking me to log in.

* M: And is this a screen you’ve seen before?

* P14: Yes

* M: Okay, it’s not going to ask you for your real credentials here, but just pretend you’re logging in the way you normally would.

* P14: What do you want me to select?

* M: Um.. what do you normally select?  
* P14: My HealtheVet or login.gov. I think that ID.me once I used that and they asked me to do some things to confirm myself and…I’m just thinking when I normally do that, they send a message to my phone and a text message and

* M: Oh, to your phone - the two-factor authentication, let’s just pretend you did all that and now you’ve arrived on this page we’re looking at now.

* P14: I’m sorry - your first name, sir?

* M: Jonathan

* P14: So you want me to click on this uh… Do you want me to click out of this box?

* M: I can’t see what you mean, but you can get rid of the chat where I dropped the URL to you. Okay, so just imagine we’ve just arrived on this site. Don’t click anything yet but just take a look around and let me know what you are thinking and seeing, that is super helpful.

* P14: Okay, I am reading this and it says I have x-ray results with Dr. Beth M. Smith. I am reading the letter….let me look at….[mumbles]...so basically Dr. Smith wants me to review my lab & test results and schedule a follow-up appointment.

* M: Okay, cool that’s super helpful. When you say you landed on your inbox, can you tell me a bit more about that/

* P14: Okay, sorry - I see in the upper corner here it says “Back to inbox” (referring to breadcrumbs) to see if there are any additional emails there, I’d click this to see the emails I had previously looked at or new ones that had appeared in my Inbox.

* M: And is there anything else - thinking about that pretend email to the login to landing here, is there anything surprising about landing on this page?

* P14: Normally in the past it would take me to the inbox and what would occur was…okay..it would be like okay I hve a message, okay, so let’s say I click on as far as my Inbox - it would take me to my list of emails that was sent to me, and I am aware that the email that is still old - it lets me know that those emails I haven’t yet reviewed. So this email probably would have been bolded from Dr. smith because I would have looked at it and normally if I haven’t read it, it’s bolded. So normally if I go to the Inbox it would be bolded.

* M: Okay, yeah. And if you were talking to a friend and trying to describe where you are on this website, how would you describe it?

* P14: I think it’s called secure messaging or something of that nature. Um..I know when I go into My HealtheVet…I”m trying to remember. I Think there’s options in the upper portion of the screen where if you want to look at your prescription, or…there’s different options and one of hte options I recall I think is secur messaging. But it takes you to your email.

* M: Okay, gotcha - and that’s when you’re using My HealtheVet in real life, right?

* P14: Yes

* M: So just focusing on this screen here, I want you to imagine you’re looking to find your x-rays. And I’d like to hear where you’d start looking for that first.

* P14: Okay so I think I”ve done this in the past and there is something called Blue..blue something.

* M: Blue button?  
* P14: Yeah. And so I think if I want to download I can use blue button to edit the timeframe for my lab results and in other words there is a little calendar or an option where from today up until whenever - the time period I want it to be, I can designate what reports. I can click a button to show all the reports, or just the lab results. I can click just lab results I can pick just that and narrow the time frame and download that.

* M: Great, that’s super helpful. So now looking at this website, where can can you look to find your lab and test results?

* P14: [clicks breadcrumb to go to back to Inbox]

* M: When you were clicking back to inbox what were you hoping to find there?

* P14: Okay, back to inbox I was hoping to go back to my list of emails that had been sent to me. But I see here that ….

* M: And on that list of emails what were you looking for there?

* P14: on that list of emails if I recall correctly it would say “My HealtheVet” and it would list all the options, appointments, medical records near the top and i could find that. I think if I read an email, irregardless of where I went, if I go back to the previous page that uh..I”m sorry if I…

* M: No, this is super helpful

* P14: my other options would show on the top portion of the screen.

* M: So you can go ahead and show me where you’d view those x-rays and reports  
* P14: [clicks “medical records” in nav bar]

* M: And can you tell me what you’re doing as you go?

* P14: oh, i’ll go back [returns to message page then clicks medical records again in the nav bar and gets to medical records page, clicks “lab and test results link]. I forgot what lab results you wanted me to see.

* M: It was your x-ray results of your ankle.

* P14: I didn’t find that.

* M: Oh, okay cool.

* P14: Wait, you said ankle? I see it here.

* M: What were you looking for here before you found it?

* P14: I was thinking about the words that had been used in the email. But the first result does say ankle left 3 views.

* M: were you looking for other words?

* P14: I was looking down and then when I asked you this question, I scrolled down and it didn’t go to the second page, so I scrolled back up and then I saw it.


### Task 1: Find x-ray - 15 mins

_Medical records > Lab and test results > locate x-ray result for scan of left ankle_

### Task 2: Make appointment - 5 mins

_Labs and tests result > Appointments_

  

* P14: I normally don’t use the appointments. I use messages and send a message directly to my primary care physician, or…in other words…let me select messages here.

* M: so normally you would select messages here, and what would yo udo then?

* P14: I would select my doctor, and if it were pertaining to my eyes, I’d pick the ophthalmology clinic to send a message. Or if it were about my medications I would send a note directly to my physician. Or if …yeah because even with medications because the options that are listed for the medications, I can go within that area of My heatheVet and submit a refill. So I don’t even do that…so yeah basically it is just any communications or let’s say opthalmology if I have to cancel that appointment I’ll send a message.

* M: So that totally makes sense, is there a reason you don’t use the appointment option when cancelling or scheduling?

* P14: umm…I guess just to make sure, okay so - I guess it depends on the time. Like I have an appointment tomorrow or let’s say I have one at 4:00 today. I’d first call the VA. And if somebody doesn’t answer the phone I’d at least want to send a message or have a paper trail that I attempted to cancel the appointment.

* M: Okay, that totally makes sense. Okay, cool. I did see that you gravitated towards the appointments link [referring to the navigation bar] what would you expect if you clicked that?

* P14: I’d assume its a list of my appointments and gives the details…[clicks it] and I’m doing it now but I’m not used to doing it in the past…but the VA is very good besides this..so I put it on my cell phone and I pretty much know the details.

* M: And do you see here how you’d make a new appointment?

* P14: Start scheduling [points to link on appointments page] and can I make a recommendation here?

* M: Yeah, sure!

* P14: I made an assumption looking at this that it would be like a calendar for January and based on the dates, you have an appointment at this time and at this location…okay? [anecdote about calendar]

### Task 3: Order CPAP supplies from VA - 5 mins

_Home > Order CPAP supplies_

  * P14: [Clicks “My HealtheVet” in nav bar]

* M: Is this what you expected?

* P14: I thought it was going to take me back to the home page

* M: And where are you now?

* P14: I would not consider this the home page, when I think about the My HealtheVet I think about notifications. I’ve never…I think this is maybe the second time I’ve seen this page. I thought when I clicked My HealtheVet it would take me to the home page. Normally when I sign into My HealtheVet…have you ever logged into the Va clinic to see the current events and what’s new with the VA? 

*[Observer note: participant has strong mental model of My HealtheVet National Portal]*

* M: So you expected to see the events for your facility and that? So if you were describing to a friend what page we’re on right now, how would you describe this page?

* P14: I’m sorry can you ask the question again please?

* M: If you were to describe to another Veteran friend where you are within the website, how would you describe where you[re at right now?

* P14: I guess I would call this the MyHealtheVet home screen?

* M: well maybe you haven’t seen this before because this is an updated version.

* P14: well, I use the app and I believe the format on the app is similar to this screen here…so..if you don’t mind .. I..I am logged in.

* M: what are you doing right now?

* P14: I’m logging into the VA.gov app and I think the reason I never saw this is because 90% of the time when I..uh…90% of the time I do it with my smartphone and I’m not using my laptop.

* M: Yeah, I just want to reinforce that this is a new design and there are many reasons why you haven’t seen it. Like that home page that you’d expect to see? Was that page you were referencing on your phone or your computer? 

* P14: On my phone - or maybe it has been 5-6 months since I did something like this on my laptop.

* M: Can you tell me how you get there to the home screen you are referencing. Even if it was 5-6 months ago, can you tell me how you’d get there?

* P14: I’d sign into my Healthevet and there is some verification. And then from there I go to the home page screen. Which, evidently, is the older version of the whole thing.

* M: Okay, so now that you come to this page, do you see anywhere you could order CPAP supplies?

* P14: oh, medical supplies and equipment. [clicks link for CPAP and arrives at CPAP page]

* M: Now that you are here, this is in fact the place you would start ordering supplies. Are you still on the same page or section of the website?

* P14: No, I can download or mail a request. Do you want me to return?

* M: How do you know this is different? Where are you on teh site now?

* P14: I am on order CPAP supplies. I know that that’s not an option, see - medical supplies and euqipment. THe only options on My HealtheVet are appointments, messages, medications and medical records.

* M: And that previous page tha we were on wtih CPAP supplies - is that part of the website different?

* P14: See, this looks new..I’ve never…okay, I've never branched out as far as beyond medical records, appointments, etc. I have never done that - because these are the only options they give you even on the app. I wouldn’t have been able to answer that question because they don’t give me that option. I’m not on CPAP so I’ve never done this before.

* M: yeah, it’s a difficult question for sure, but I appreciate you kind of showing me and talking that through with me.

* M: So I want to make sure we have enough time and show you another prototype. But before we switch over, I have a couple of questions.

  * M: I know you haven’t ordered CPAP supplies, but are those other things tasks that you’ve done?

* P14: Yes, I have done those other ones.

* M: Do you normally use the app for htat?

* P14: probably 90-95% of the time I use the app

* M: Okay, can you scroll up to the top? Do you see where it says “Sally” there? And don’t click on it yet, but what would you expect ot happen if you clicked on that?

* P14: Probably personal data concerning me. Probably my name, I don’t know. My address, maybe my phone number. Basic information.

* M: Okay, and thinking aobut those tasks like finding an x-ray, making an appointment, and ordering CPAP supplies, can you think on a scale of 1-5 how would you rate the difficulty of finding what you were looking for?

* P14: 1-5?

* P14: okay, the easiest was retrieving my emails.

* M: what about making an appointment and the others

* P14: that was easy, the only difficult was because of my past experience never having to have..I”m not diagnosed with sleep apnea. So I wasn’t familiar with concerning medial supplies.

* M: Sure, no worries. So overall thinking about those things. What number would you give this?

* P14: For me? Um…

* P14: Probably … it wasn’t that difficult. It was probably a 2.

* M: 2?

* P14: Yeah, i didn’t go straight - I made 2 military lefts before I got to my destination.

* M: what do you mean by that in terms of the website?

* P14: okay, because it was…if you had - when you asked the question my first response was I would just send an note to my primary care physician because to me that would be the easiest. But I’m going to say now, after today, I know that if the situation occurs where I had to order these items, I could go directly and order them on this..uh..URL compared to sending a message to my primary care physician.

  

## Tasks for Prototype 2


### Task 0: Messages - 2 mins

  

Now we will walk through the same tasks using this version.

_Participant arrives on secure messaging page with message from doctor open_

  

### Task 1: Find x-ray - 5 mins

_Medical records > Lab and test results > locate x-ray result for scan of left ankle_

* P14: okay, your lab and test results. So in turn, I would…
*[observer note: sent the wrong link - we open the correct one]*

* P14: Medical, I would go to medical records[ in nav bar]. And from there I would go down to lab & test results [clicks link]. Then I would go to the first that says…ankle left 3 views, I would double click this [clicks]

* M: Okay, and that link doesn’t work but that is correct.

### Task 2: Make appointment - 5 mins

_Labs and tests result > Appointments_
* M: Now, I want you to schedule an appointment with your doctor.

* P14: I would go to appointments [in nav bar] and then I’d click “start scheduling” [tries to click]

* M: You are in the right spot, but again that link doesn’t work.

 
### Task 3: Order CPAP supplies from VA - 5 mins

_Home > Order CPAP supplies_

* M: One final task is left: Please find where you'd order CPAP supplies (or any medical supplies).

* P14: Mecial records? hmm…darn..I’m going to try Medications. I don’t think it’s right, but…

* M: can you tell me..

* P14: That’s not correct so I’ll try medical records

* M: Wait, Robert why did you want to click medications?

* P14: well, because that’s what I’m used to. Because medications - for CPAP supplies I think you’d probably need to have a prescription.

* M: Got it that makes sense.

* P14: But now i Think I should have gone to hte home screen.

* M: And what is your thinking there?

* P14: It dawned on me that I learned something new. My past experience is to go to medications, but when I saw that I was wrong - oh wait a minute Robert - you learned today that if you want to order CPAP you go to the home screen and scroll down and find Medical supplies and equipment.

* M: What if anything was different about completing those tasks than on thefirst version of the website that I sent you?

* P14: The first…let’s put it this way, this is easier, because the key is…anything that possibly you want to inquire or reorder or anything in regards to uh..your uh…medical history or medical support with the VA…by going to hte home screen it gives you a snapshot of all the major areas where you may need to interface with the VA. Because it has appointments, messages, medication, medical records,

* M: So are you talking about this page we’re looking at right now? [referring to home landing page]. Go ahed and scroll up to the top. Can you click the appointments button for me?

* P14: Yeah

* M: so when you click that, to go to medications, you clicked the home button. Where did you expect that to take you?

* P14: to the screen that you told me it was a new design of the screen and I remembered I could pull it from there. It’s like repetition. Like normally, I don’t do i this way but I won’t make the same mistake 3 times.

* M: That’s super helpful and makes sense. I’m curious about that use of “home.” earlier you were describing a different home page. What home page would that take you to?

* P14: The home page I”m accustomed to with M yHealtheVet was that for me personally. And again, like I said I’m slightly computer literate or if I make a mistake I try to figure it out. But if someone is not comfortable navigating with the original screen…I know when I went in there, I”m the type of person will sit around with it. But in my past I work with computers daily and am not intimidated. I’m [trails off]

* M: I’m sorry, please finish what you were saying.

* P14: the prior screen is almost like you have to know what you are looking for, because even concerning communicating with your PCP if you are not comfortable with writing or communicating with an email or concerning your prescription if you are not comfortable reordering yourself…

[missed some diction]

* P14: I always look for this toolbar. Let’s say I need my medical records and then I want to reorder medications, my past experience I’d have to go back to the home screen, click medications. My past experience is that it’s easier for me to go back to the home screen and re-order my medications. I’d rather come back here and I can do anything and can communicate with the VA easier with all of this on the one screen instead of being accustomed to the toolbar. But again, it might just be me not having had to do that previously.

* M: Gotcha, that totally makes sense.

  * M: On a scale of 1-5, 1 = easy and 5 = difficult, how would you rate the difficulty of finding what you were looking for in that site we just explored together?

* P14: This is easier. This is the easiest.  A one. This is more easier to me because everything is on one page. Maybe these options were here previously and I wasn’t aware of it, but definitely the medical supplies and payment - I was always sending emails about everything but now I can go directly here and just do this. The communication is just as important as I…and like I said I was sending emails to everybody. But definitely with it being on one page it makes it easier for me.

*[observer note: probably reflecting on the recency and familiarity from having done it before].*

* M: That totally makes sense about this landing page here. But I’m curious though, I sent you two links though - you started off trying to find your x-ray, and then make an appointment, and then you came to this page. So if you don’t think only about this page but also about those other tasks. Would you still rate it a 1? Or would you give it a different number?  

* P14: I didn’t have an issue with this task. I think I just hadn’t been aware of that revised home screen. Now I’d rate this a 2. This isn’t difficult for me clicking in this bar and going to those pages. This isn’t difficult. But now after having seen and exposed to this home screen, this would be a 2. But if I wasn’t aware of this home screen, this didn’t seem difficult. But the home screen is a 1.
  

## Introduce mobile versions to participant to ask him to reflect

* M: Can you see this screen?

* P14: yes

* M: Okay, cool. So my first question is, if you could just look at this top bar here, I am wondering if you could tell me starting over in this area, what you think would happen if I click here.

* P14: It will take me to the appointments page

* M: Appointments page?

* P14: yes

* M: what about this one?  
* P14: sending and receiving messages

* M: what about htis one?

* P14: Reordering and receiving messages

* M: And what about this last one?

* P14: retrieving medical records, blue button

* M: Okay, great. If you were talking to that same friend and were trying to explain to them how to find what we’re looking at right now on the web, what would yo usay? [referncing secure message screen]

* P14: I’d say click that My HealtheVet in that upper left and it should take you to that home page and on that page there is a list of options there is a page about lab results and x-rays and you could find that.

* M: yeah, and you could go from there, right?

* P14: yes

* M: What do you think the relationship is between these tools and VA.gov?

* P14: The…appointments and messages?

* M: Yeah, exactly.

* P14: you know it’s kind of self explanatory, if you want to submit these or re-order your meds or review your medical records

* M: What website are we looking at right now?

* P14: This isn’t the My HealtheVet..oh…this is VA.gov. Right?

* M: Why did you say VA.gov? I know it’s kind of hard looking at my computer too

* P14: This look like..no, it can’t be because it says My HealtheVet. That’s what I was looking for. IT says My HealtheVet and it says MyVA. If you click MyVA that would take you to VA.gov.

* M: And real quickly I wanted to show you this version (mobile collapsed menu) Do you notice anything different?

* P14: well, I see where it says My HealtheVet - so I think if you click that dropdown arrow it would have MyVA. Wouldn’t it?

* M: It would have MyVA? What else would be in there?  
* P14: In this dropdown?

* M: yeah

* P14: For me it should have…let’s put it this way, on that dropdown arrow it should take you back to the home page.

* M: I’m going to go ahead and click on it here.

* P14: Oh, okay okay.

* M: So the home page, what would it take you to?

* P14: that page where yo ucan order CPAP and all that.

* M: That totally makes sense. And this home page that you have been referencing this whole time, is this what you were talking about [pulls up MHV NP]

* P14: yes, this is what I’m accustomed to. I’m sorry.

* M: No, please don’t apologize.

* P14: so that is going away,

* M: Eventually, but i don’t have a timeline and it will be very slow, so nothing to be concerned about.

* P14: Okay.

* M: Do you have any last thought about those two designs?

* P14: no, but I thought we were on My HealtheVet versus the app. We weren’t talking about the app, right?  
M: No, not the mobile app. But does it seem familiar?

* P14: The app is usually a condensed verison of what you’d see on the laptop. Pretty much on the app you get the basic, just enough info to make an intelligent decision. But it seems ot me that revised home screen…I could see that being applied with the app.

* M: Gotcha, that’s super helpful. Well I don’t want to keep you any longer. Your feedback was super important.

* P14: Yeah man, because to be honest with you I”ve been assigned to the VA since the mid-80s. It’s come a long ways. I think I haven’t physically ordered medications from the VA in at least 5-6 years. It’s very convenient. The technology has been uh…I appreciate it. It saves time. It really does.

* M: Thank you so much Robert.

* P14: I hope my input will help a Veteran in the future.

* M: Definitely, appreciate it! Have a good day.

  



