# Optimatization for Data aggragating

## Problem

We have found that the response for the questionnaire manager takes too long and sending duplicate data (sample: 7secs for a cold call, ~4 for hot call ). This leads to a sub-par UX

## Proposed Solution

Currently the API is acting as a data aggregator (this works, but is an antipattern). We want to move the logic from the server to the client. This will keep the API more RESTful and hopefully lighten the load and quicken the load times for the user

## Sample code

All work was done on [a branch](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/vets-website/tree/questionnaire-21221-spike-api-calls).

## Findings

### Summary

This seems to be possible and quite doable. The only outstanding question is the reduction of load times on the server. Currently the prototype is displaying todo and completed questionnaires. This is mimics the current UI close enough to prove this is possible and worth it.

### What is between this and going to production

- refactor. the code is in a throwaway prototype state
- add tests, the logic needs to be test very thoroughly
- Checks for edge cases (time frames, appt status, QR status, etc)
- API updates

### API Changes

- The lighthouse appt endpoint needs to be updated to only return the current user's appointments
- The Questionnaire Response endpoint  to be updated to only return the current user's appointments

### Risks

- Relies more on making several network connections between the client and server(and the rest of th ecosystem). There is more of chance network failures.
- Painting of the page may not be a faster UX since the last steps in the process are what determines which questionnaires go where.

### Benefits

- Not duplicating of data being sent to the client
- Not using up server cycles to compute the questionnaires. API becomes simpler and acts truly like a proxy
- Could lead to a more progressive UX instead of "dump everything" model
- Can use the client state to determine SiP progress instead of querying the database

### Time estimates

- To update the client side: ~1.5 sprints
- To update the API: ????

### Test results

#### test 1: Judy morrison As of 6/29/2021

- payload size before
  - 9.7 kB over 1 request
- est. payload size after
  - total: 11.kB over 5 requests
  - appts: 4.9kb
  - locations: 1.8kB
  - orgs: 0.8 kB
  - questionnaires: 2.15 kB
  - qr: 1.81 kB

#### test 2: 50 appointments in a year, all at the same location/organization

- payload size before
  - XXXX over 1 request
- est. payload size after
  - total: XXXX over 5 requests
  - appts: XXXX
  - locations:XXXX
  - orgs:XXXX
  - questionnaires:XXXX
  - qr: 1.81 kB

#### Interesting notes about test siz

- This sample uses the complete FHIR structure for the response structure, we can reduce to help reduce noise and size
- Many requests will scale over time better than one big request. There was only 3 appointments, with the same location, org and questionnaire. As the user gets more appointments the more data is duplicated.

## Issues

- IAM and SSOE have been causing issues and we have not been able test locally.

## Next steps

- test with a bunch of appointments
- test in staging to verify results
- Set up a load test
- Create tickets to implement
