# January 23, 2023

`Practice meeting` `Strategy`

---

- Purpose: Our very first group conversation on what our practice's purpose is
- Attendees: ??
- [Unabbreviated notes for the full scoop üç¶ ](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1z5OsfMtlnVp-ntPUi3zPUzw__1mwECqR9bMJygN04h0/edit#heading=h.m75uef8h0ryr)

## Key Summary
- For current practitioners, there‚Äôs a need for peer support, sharing, and training.
- For new practitioners, there‚Äôs a need for a basic introductory onboarding, checklists, and activities (we have a draft of the former in our trauma practice doc).
- The key questions doc is really big. We may want to focus on one question at a time for future syncs.

## Action Items
- [ ] Prioritize more verbal discussion for the next sync (over strictly async collaboration, which we‚Äôll still do for our async folk). If we have alot of folk, we‚Äôll aim to do breakout rooms of around 6 people each (but will need to plan out facilitation)
- [ ] Is anyone interested in facilitating in our next sync on 12/12? I‚Äôm comfortable continuing to do this until we find a rhythm, but the sooner facilitation is democratized to the community, the better-- no one person should own that.
- [ ] What should we talk about next sync on 12/12? Would love to hear the community‚Äôs ideas. Should it be an open free for all share? Specific to a topic in the questions list? Feel free to reply by email directly or comment in our thread at #inclusive-research.
- [ ] Draft a vision and mission that identifies what our foundational ever-evolving asks, needs, and aspirations are (for example, as Lydia Hooper notes, the need for peer support). At the very least, we should aim to identify the purpose of our group. Is anyone interested in helping steward this? Ideally looking for a small team of 2-3 volunteers.
- [ ] Rachael Dietkus offered to run a pilot case study training session on 12/5 (next Monday), is anyone interested in signing up to join that session?
