# November 13, 2023

`Big Meeting` `Strategy`

---

- Purpose: Discuss Rachel's list on active listening
- Facilitator: Megan Graham
- Scribe: Pam Drouin
- Attendees: 10-ish?
- [Unabbreviated notes for the full scoop 🍦 ](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1z5OsfMtlnVp-ntPUi3zPUzw__1mwECqR9bMJygN04h0)

## Key Summary

### Using the lanugage that a veteran uses

- Pertaining to the first tip on [Rachel's list on active listening](https://dsva.slack.com/archives/C04F9JLSATE/p1699307205032219), Rachel points out that this line of thinking extends to the language of veteran culture and how it may differ within that culture. Examples she gave are differences in language for someone who is a combat veteran compared with a veteran who has not deployed, or someone serving in-country vs overseas.

### Consider the context in which a veteran is using specific language

- One attendee asked about survivor vs victim language, and wanted to know what to do if someone used the word `victim` to describe themselves.
- Rachel said that the context is important. Words carry a lot of meaning, we have to understand what the words are meant to mean so they don’t get misinterpreted. She recommended following the lead of what someone is trying to say by paying attention to what is being said and carrying that language throughout the conversation.

### Reflect on who you are & how you want to show up in the work

- Another attendee asked what the right level of response was, since we’re moving away from being neutral and non-emotive, given that people have terrible experiences with VA?
- Rachel says we all will have a different style. A flat affect is one way someone may carry themselves, either because it’s comfortable or that’s how it’s been taught. But if it’s more sensitive research (and everything in the veteran space has the potential to be sensitive), Rachel is opposed to performative empathy because it’s kind of manipulative. Some people can show their emotions naturally and that’s who they are, but some people can perform emotions and it feels disingenuous. She asked us to ask ourselves:
  - What kind of an effect is it having on us if we put on a professional hat (that’s a fake persona)
  - What is the self-protective way of being genuine and compassionate and also doing the work/getting the work done?
- See Compassionate Inquiry by Dr Gabor Maté.

## Action Items
- [ ] Megan Graham will put it on the agenda for the next meeting (Nov. 20th) that there will be a `part 2` to this conversation on active listening.
- [ ] Charlotte Cesana volunteered to be the facilitator for the next meeting
