# March 20, 2023

`Big Meeting` `Community Guidelines` `Strategy`

---

- Purpose: Determine a path forward for safeguarding community guidelines and measuring the value of trauma-informed work
- Facilitator: Cindy Merrill
- Scribe: Josh Kim
- Attendees: 16

## Community guidelines 🪴
We started with a conversation about how to uphold our community guidelines, with the larger purpose of fostering safety in our community.

- **Language is powerful.** Instead of "report", Eva suggested considering more comfortable, less pressure-charged language choices like, "Share a concern."
- **This work is tough, especially in volunteered spaces.** Brittany noted that getting this right can be challenging in scenarios where people aren't professionally paid to gather together. Striking a balance is key.
- **Can we take inspiration from elsewhere?** Josh and Tyler noted that groups have tackled this in the past like [Allied Media Conference](https://amc.alliedmedia.org/) and [Geek Feminism conference anti-harassment policy](https://geekfeminism.fandom.com/wiki/Conference_anti-harassment/Policy_resources).
- **The goal is the process** Cindy asked "What is the goal? Learning? Potential insensitivity?" The goal may be the process of figuring out what our goal is! Goal-ception!
- **Scenario brainstorming** Nyantee came up with the idea of conducting a scenario brainstorming exercise where we could examine all the difference instances of breaches to our guidelines. Eva added to this by recommending looking into breaches by volume (once, vs. twice, etc) and points of view.
- **How do we mitigate unintended consequences from our guidelines?** Considering whose perspectives are included and excluded in the creation of these guidelines is critical, along with who it is for and how we handle incidents.

## How do we measure TID's impact? 🗺️
- **Let them cook! 🥘** Our leaders in this space (Rachael, Martha, Karen) are examining ways to contractually account for this work.
- **What we're doing right now is the thing** It can be hard to measure something that's not concrete, but Rachael has mentioned in the past that what we are doing _is the thing_. Struggling through difficult topics together and making our brains hurt is the thing.
- **Evangelism has impact** Martha's hard work banging the drums for trauma informed design is materializing in how product owner's talk about it, as Cindy noted in her story.
- **The more we work with platform, the better** Cindy suggested a low hanging fruit might be to work more closely with platform to embed trauma informed design into existing templates.
- **How do we collect or show value over time?** We brainstormed a couple of ideas to move forward including:
  - How do we measure harm not happening? The absence of bad?
  - Can we measure trust or comfort or confidence?
  - Can we ask to all the researchers who participate: has something ever happened in a session that you weren’t ready for or didn’t feel safe for
  - It would be fantastic to have a convening or a visioning group on how we do it, how we avoid being reductionist/attach a number?


## Action Items ⏰
- [ ] Josh Kim to begin planning scenario brainstorming activity for Apr 3, 2023 on community safety
- [ ] Liz Straghalis to follow up on the potential for a visioning group
- [ ] [Needs volunteer] to prototype a community survey or first step towards measuring the need for or value of  TID

