# August 7, 2023

`Big Meeting` `Strategy`

---

- Purpose: Discuss how to share what we're learning as a community
- Facilitator: Liz Straghalis
- Scribe: Tyler Gindraux
- Attendees: 15ish
- [Unabbreviated notes for the full scoop 🍦 ](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1z5OsfMtlnVp-ntPUi3zPUzw__1mwECqR9bMJygN04h0)

## Key Summary

*First off, Ciera shared that moose are proficient swimmers. They can swim at 6mph! Thank you, Ciera!* 🦌

### How can we share what we learn as a community 💭

- **Josh** asked us to consider how we can share what we're learning as a community with other organizations. Are there ways we can give credit to the community?
- Some of us mentioned the experience of writing about this on behalf of our individual agency. And how, "it [can be] uncomfortable to write about this as an individual(s), when you know that any learnings have come from a group of folks [across agencies], not just one person [or agency]."
- We think citing this group can help, as well, "I tried to be honest and place myself as the beginner, and point people to the right experts."
 
### What are the potential harms we can cause by sharing 😬

- **Lydia** asked us to lean into the potential concerns. She mentioned the Dunning Kruger Effect, where you become aware of something new and where you think you know more than you actually do, "I see this a lot in tech."
- **Cindy** noted her preference for 'sharing by example' versus introducing an idea to a community.
- We related on feeling the pressure as contractors who are "incentivized to put a profitable spin" on things. But as **Josh** said, "there is no ownership here. I bring this up early because I want the VA, or ideally us as a grassroots organization, to say this does not belong to one contractor or one individual, this is a community effort and it can’t exist without that community."
- Another concern is that when we share an approach, people believe it's the *only* approach. It can become overly prescriptive.
- And as **Karen** described, then we might see people saying they are taking a "trauma-informed approach" when really they're just "using the words."

### Peer learning IS THE "best practice" 🪄

- Through discussion, we realized that a topic we're really interested in sharing about is the community building we've done and are doing (rather than a how-to on trauma-informed research, for example).
- We think it's really unique that we're working truly cross-contract and cross-company, to serve one customer (VA). As **Liz** said, "we're unlearning."
- Now that we have a topic, we'll need to talk through *how* we share as a community.

### A few other things we discussed, or will in the future 📌

- **Megan** flagged that Perigean will be at next week's Design + Research + Content Sync in case we have questions to ask Brian or feedback we can bring up.
- **Josh** is interested in reflecting on how we're managing facilitation (and other roles in the community) right now – and wonders whether ad hoc is the best, or most sustainable way to do this.
- **Rachael** is currently out of the office but would like us to start thinking about how we might organically meet in person, for example, at a conference or other event.
- **Josh** and **Lydia** are curious whether newer members have been able to find resources when they join the community, and if they notice any gaps (things they were looking for but can't find) that we can fill.

## Action Items
- [ ] Questions or feedback for Perigean before next Monday's Design + Research + Content Sync? [Add them here.](https://dsva.slack.com/archives/C0NGDDXME/p1691430405803849)
- [ ] Start a Slack follow-up thread to think on Josh’s question about roles
