# May 1, 2023

`Big Meeting` `Community Guidelines` `Strategy`

---

- Purpose: Share why we joined this community and discuss how best to grow small groups
- Facilitator: Megan Graham
- Scribe: Tyler Gindraux
- Attendees: 15-20
- [Unabbreviated notes for the full scoop 🍦 ](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1z5OsfMtlnVp-ntPUi3zPUzw__1mwECqR9bMJygN04h0)

## Key Summary

### Megan opened with a prompt: What do you enjoy about this time of year?

- Lots of folks shared lovely anecdotes in the chat and aloud. Jasmine [shared a home video of happy bees, swarming their hive](https://dsva.slack.com/archives/C04F9JLSATE/p1682971529516149?thread_ts=1682971125.267119&cid=C04F9JLSATE). 
- We think there's lots to look forward to, like, more birds, bees, blossoms and veggies.

### We're in the process of collectively defining a vision for our community

- Charlotte has been working with Josh and Lydia to define a process to collect feedback from the group. They've shared a [survey](https://forms.gle/DnrFrVpTAgJEGgNW9) which folks are welcomed to contribute to anonymously.
- Next, Charlotte invited us to discuss the survey prompts together, synchronously. She asked, 'What brought you to this community? What do you yearn to see from this community in the next couple of years?'
- Many of us see this as a place to learn from one another and expand our research skills and practices. Joseph even mentioned that he joined today (welcome, Joseph!) after watching Ruben present research. It inspired him to learn more about trauma-informed design and how we can implement this at the VA.
- Laura and Liz, in particular, mentioned wanting to develop and 'codify' new ways of working.
- Relatedly, Jasmine's interested in learning frameworks for how people respond to trauma, and how to keep it from happening. They reminded us, "this [work] is a natural extension of working in accessibility and inclusion."

### What happens when small groups want to... get bigger?

- Rachael gave a quick overview of big and small groups. Big groups are this meeting, which happen on Mondays and is open to everyone. Small groups, which happen on Fridays, are smaller groups with 5-7 people facilitated by Rachael, usually. They're a chance for us to share experiences more openly or talk through a case study in more detail.
- As more people have joined this big group, there are some folks who are interested in joining small groups. We discussed how we should we grow these groups, for example, adding folks to existing small groups or creating a 3rd group.
- Josh also pointed out that small groups were started as a way for us to get to know people better, so we feel safer and more open to sharing (potentially tough) experiences in this setting.
- Folks wondered whether the small groups can grow, as they aren't too big and Liz and Cindy noted that we haven't been running them often or for long enough that it would feel uncomfortable to have new folks join at this stage.
- We discussed circulating a poll to help us come up with a next step on this.

## Action Items
- [ ] Everyone is welcome to fill out the [community guidelines survey](https://forms.gle/DnrFrVpTAgJEGgNW9)
- [ ] Josh, Cindy, Rachael will consider creating a poll to continue the discussion about how best to use and grow small groups
