# February 27, 2023

`Practice meeting` `Research shareout` `MST`

---

- Purpose: Karen Cutright gave a research shareout of her MST research study at the Veterans Experience Office
- Facilitator: Martha Wilkes
- Scribe: Josh Kim
- Attendees: 11
- [Video recording 🎥]([https://docs.google.com/document/d/1z5OsfMtlnVp-ntPUi3zPUzw__1mwECqR9bMJygN04h0](https://adhocteam-us.zoom.us/rec/share/ssTQhs1xRh12fxkzhacfmi2HMdqYruZq55yVTPwDcrzUgASuZoYdR0NPLk_g2t3x.KC0UvnaHkqF3xBDE?startTime=1677531857000%20Passcode:%20w%^t7?h^))
  - Password: `w%^t7?h^`

## Key summary

### An unideal start to a sensitive topic
- The research was kicked off by a mandate from congress to VBA (Benefits) to make a journey map on the MST experience by interviewing Veterans with MST, which Karen had disagreements with in concern of re-traumatizing Veterans.
- VBA is less customer-focused and more rules-based (making sure things are legally right) compared to VHA
- Karen started with desk research, citing information and conversations already existing in the public (e.g. Reddit, public forums, etc)
- VBA, however, insisted on interviews
- Before agreeing to undertake the project, Karen consulted with 4-5 different colleagues. She asked: what’s my role here? How do I stay in my role? What am I protected for? Legally? With my license?

### Setting boundaries and conditions with VBA
Karen agreed to do the work provided the following conditions were met:
- VBA had “skin in the game,” by asking them to find participants and get their consent
- The research was laser-focused on just the claims process, and not the Veteran’s experience with MST
- There was as much informed consent as possible, with safety being an absolute priority
- The first half of the research would be conducted just with trained social care workers (Karen and Adam)
  - The way designers are trained conflicts against social care practice norms; in other words, we’re not set up to do trauma-informed work by default
  - E.g., social care workers are trained to provide information and answers to questions, not deflect or “mhmm” it away as a neutral party

### Building trust and transparency with participants early and often 
- Karen went over the specifics of her study at least 3 times with participants by email, personal call, and within the interview itself.
- The traumatized brain has more difficulty inputting new information. Reiterating information on what you’re doing, why you’re doing it, is critical.
- In the first email, Karen gave in writing what they were doing, and what they were not doing with instructions on how to withdraw at any moment in time. 
@Martha Wilkes
 noted that this would be safer than putting Veterans on the spot to respond to a request.
- Karen gave choice to the participants on researcher identity as well, not just tech setup and time.
- She also prepared a resource guide on the VA ahead of time to be equipped to answer any questions Veterans pose.

### There’s still many open questions
- When should a research topic should go through IRB or not?
- How do we keep OUR practitioners safe?
