
# **March 6, 2023**

`Big Meeting` `Research Shareout` `MST`


* Purpose: In session 2, Karen Cutright, along with UX teammembers Laura and Chris discussed their MST (Military Sexual Trauma) research study at Veterans Experience Office. This session focused on the details of the sessions and how they carried them out.
* Facilitator: Martha Wilkes
* Scribe: Liz Straghalis
* Attendees: 31
* Video recording 🎥 ([Recording available here](https://adhocteam-us.zoom.us/rec/share/1QOQNGXDk88s5ko9sR4H9cLgFFFTXprKq9PR5Tl7rW9lVnCIF8BkSaaEhi7ABGjK.lPuz6ItNh942jVIr?startTime=1678136664000))
    * Password: !gpJf0An

## **Key summary**


### **Care and intention in setting up the sessions**

* Karen led all 12 Veterans through a multi-step process before joining the session to make sure they had a clear understanding of what the session would cover. 
* Karen talked to Veterans on the phone ahead of time so they could ask her any questions beforehand. Veterans had a choice on the researcher identity as well, and could choose if they wanted a notetaker to join.
* All 12 Veterans showed up to their scheduled session! 
* Rachael mentioned the area of practice around supervision of social workers, providing intentional, thoughtful, support to social workers and asked, what it might look like?
* Karen mentioned one of the hardest things about this project was operating as a social worker and a designer with a limited support network. She had previous experience going to other colleagues to get their thoughts on ethical and boundary considerations during the setup. In the VEO space, the only people were Adam and one other person.
* Karen also mentioned the importance of working with her stakeholders to recognize the risks of doing what they wanted to do. They walked through these risks with their SMEs together and came up with potential scenarios as well as plans. (They ended up not having to use any of it, but they were prepared.)

### **This care mindset guided the session delivery, too**



* Karen and Adam, the team’s social workers, were the only ones who attended the first sessions until they got a sense of how the sessions were going.
* After a couple of interviews, Karen realized they had the technique to keep it going on a path that was most productive. They opened it up for designers from the team, Laura and Chris, to join as notetakers. Karen and Adam were the only ones who facilitated the sessions, though.
* Questions in the discussion guide followed a logical, linear path focused on the claim process and _not_ the actual trauma experience, as a way to build trust and safety with Veterans. 
* Creating the discussion guide, Karen mentioned: _“**We needed to leave time and space and respect the respondents might go into story and might not be able to go straight down their list of 25 questions.”**_

 
### **The team used trauma-responsive methods which might be seen as “atypical”**



* Karen discussed the importance of offering affirmation, that you heard the person’s experience and recognize it as valid. 
* If a person couldn’t find a word, Karen would suggest it. (This isn’t the usual research practice, but she knew trauma often shows up in a way where a person can’t find the words they’re looking for.)
* At times Karen would offer affirmation by saying something like, **_“Sometimes it’s really difficult for people who have been through a really emotional experience to have the words to speak about it.”_**
* Laura noted, it was interesting from the perspective as a qualitative researcher to hear Karen say things in the sessions like, “Oh that would be really tough to go through that.” 
* As a notetaker there was a moment that really hit her, a Veteran who said the word assault, and then they couldn’t talk anymore and the Veteran was frozen. Laura could tell that saying that word was very, very hard for her but Karen was able to bring her back to the conversation.
* As a researcher, Laura has prided herself on not filling the space and being comfortable with silence, but she could tell there were times when the silence was really uncomfortable for Veterans. Remembered Karen saying “I don’t want them to get off the phone in worse shape than they started.” Karen didn’t want them to feel like they were going to linger on the conversation, and this completely changed Laura’s perspective on how we should probably interview any Veteran. 
* For Veterans with cognitive issues, repeating back to them what they just said was a helpful technique.
* Laura observed Karen’s approach as incredibly valuable, as Veterans often have a lot of interactions with the VA, and it’s a very personal organization to them, and Karen’s approach felt like a personal approach. 
* Tyler asked how Karen balanced her role as a social worker and a designer during the sessions. Karen talked about the importance of having the conversation with the Veteran ahead of time, saying “this will be an interview, I’ll ask you questions.” She reminded herself during the call she could affirm and empathize, and she had people taking notes for her, but she couldn’t venture into the “this is what I’d do with your trauma” or move into solutioning with them as her social work training would lead her to do.
* The team made sure they provided the Veteran with next steps in the claims process, which is something they typically wouldn’t do in a research session.
* After the sessions ended, the team took steps to ensure everyone was ok after the interviews and set up time for team debriefs immediately after.
* During synthesis sessions, Karen removed any trauma details from the board ahead of the team’s involvement.

### **Supporting the work going forward**

* The team shared their discussion guide and Chris mentioned the warm hand-off plans they made with the Veteran Crisis Line, in case they needed to make an immediate referral during a research session. 
* Karen offered to assist any teams who are looking for support in their upcoming work.
