# April 3, 2023

`Big Meeting` `Strategy` `Community Guidelines`

---

- Purpose: Continue exploring what our guidelines should be
- Facilitator: Jasmine Friedrich
- Scribe: Josh Kim
- Attendees: 16
- [Unabbreviated notes for the full scoop 🍦 ](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1z5OsfMtlnVp-ntPUi3zPUzw__1mwECqR9bMJygN04h0)

## Key Summary

### Clayton knows a good smol dog in his neighborhood 🐶

- We started off on a cheerful note, and somehow found ourselves talking about Clayton and his experience with neighborhood doggos

### How do we create new ways of working? As contractors? Against structured inertia? 🗳️

- A practitioner noted that it's important for us to call out that it's _difficult_ to move and operate beyond ways in which VA as a system is accustomed to, especially as contractors
- For trauma-informed work in particular, it can be challenging to push against non-trauma-informed defaults especially if leadership isn't bought in
- How do we hold to our ethical [and trauma-informed] guidelines (within this community) and apply it within a non-trauma informed environment where (a) it systemically does not fit in and (b) often experiences friction and pushback from the inertia of the status quo (non-trauma informed, capitalist/design-thinking methods) and leadership?

#### Flexibility and soft power ☁️

- Cindy noted that she has been able to be more flexible in her sessions, and was curious if there were greater pressures at play (there were)
- Julie noted that being _less structured_ is a good thing, and aligns with trauma-informed research. Could we explore other research methods in this space?
- A practitioner called out the need for going beyond just methods, and exploring the power dynamics between researchers and stakeholders... how do we approach those conversations?
- Ruben offered empathy to the practitioner's story, and asked if there were softer ways to shape behavior and norms, to be a _soft power_ in these contexts

### We're going to review (to adopt) Design Justice Network's community guidelines 🪴

- Charlotte thought they were comprehensive, and wondered if it would be of interest to facilitate a session on these as a group to see if they resonate with us
- For example, Charlotte came up with the idea of reading through each one, discussing what it means to us, and how it might come up in our work or community

## Action Items
- [ ] Charlotte, Josh, and more will be partnering up to host a community guideline workshop. If you're interested in helping out, let us know in our slack channel or email Josh at josh.kim@adhocteam.us
- [ ] Small group'rs! We're meeting up again this Friday. We'll have facilitators within our small groups subbing in for Rachael this week.
