# January 9, 2023

`Practice meeting` `Q&A` 

---

- Purpose: Hold an open Q&A session with Rachael Dietkus
- Attendees: ??
- [Unabbreviated notes for the full scoop 🍦 ](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1z5OsfMtlnVp-ntPUi3zPUzw__1mwECqR9bMJygN04h0/edit#heading=h.aijmr63fhwky)

## How do we handle situations where a Veteran shares unrelated, yet sensitive information during a session? 😨
- Take a deep breath. Even if it's just a handful of seconds, gather what you might have to say. Rachael referenced her experience as a patient advocate where Veterans often just wanted to seek connection and validation. Instead of meeting nervousness with nervousness, take that deep breath and then...
Validate that you heard it e.g. "that must have been really rough"
- Provide soft opportunities to withdraw or continue e.g. "Do you still want to work on this? We can reschedule.”

## Is it possible to ever reach a trauma responsive state? How do we maintain our energy and not burn out when the deck is stacked against us? 🌵
- Rachael quoted the author of Sand Talk, “All that we can do is to foster the conditions for emergence and integrity" and tied it back to this very group. She noted that "finding those trusted colleagues and friends and thought partners in this work is the foundation and most critical piece."
- Martha asked a follow up on if a radical participatory design approach is even possible.
- Karen noted that VEO is giving participatory design a shot in LA for Veteran homeless communities.
- Joe astutely noted that Veterans are a unique group to address. "The culture of the Veteran is something that is unique and has analogs in it related to so many of the people performing the research are not Veterans or don’t have that experience."

## Breathing techniques with participants mid-research session hot takes? 🔥
- Rachael thinks there’s a few people who can do this really well with genuine authenticity, but it's not something that's utilizable-- especially in our shorter engagements and with our audience. She pointed to a theme of knowing boundaries and scope. We can be genuine and authentic in ways that don't require an expertise in breathing techniques.
- Lydia, citing her previous experience in therapeutic body work, noted she never asked others to take a deep breath as it could feel disingenuous.
- Rachael agreed, and noted that "trust can’t be transactional. It has to be built with other people. It needs to be fluid and happen over time."
- Joe and Rachael discussed the wideness of trauma informed research, the struggles of not wanting to gatekeep, balancing comfort, and practicing accountability.
- Lydia noted that we can practice more practical things like psychological first aid training.
- Josh (it me) asked, "How do we systematically build accountability– knowing that we are the most biased to see ourselves in a positive light?"

## We wrapped up asking questions on how we can push forwards in a responsible way. ⚖️
Rachael shared a graphic depicting the need for an entire organization to be deeply involved in trauma informed work for 18 months to reach a responsive state. She discussed how we can't be as rigid... but still felt an interest in wanting to take inspiration from other work. "What can we be inspired by? I think this group is actively trying to make sense of this."
