# May 23, 2023

`Big Meeting` `Shareout`

## 🚨 Got 5 minutes? We need your help! 🚨 
- **If you haven't already, [respond to our trauma-informed community survey](https://forms.gle/j5RSggKRKMFcV3dX8)**, this will help us make sure our events are meeting what you're yearning for!
- **If you attended the last big group meeting, [fill out this feedback survey](https://forms.office.com/pages/responsepage.aspx?id=DQSIkWdsW0yxEjajBLZtrQAAAAAAAAAAAANAAToLe2lUQU1HWUQ2UFNGTlY5NFRNMlFKSzROQkdZWS4u)**, it helps us measure if these are valuable to present back up to leadership in the effort of funding trauma-informed work in the future.

---

- Summary: Usability testing with homeless Veterans and an insightful conversation from small groups on turning doorknobs (credit to Rachael)!
- Facilitator: Josh
- Scribe: Josh
- Attendees: 10
- [Unabbreviated notes for the full scoop 🍦 ](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1z5OsfMtlnVp-ntPUi3zPUzw__1mwECqR9bMJygN04h0)

## Key Summary

### Working with Veterans experiencing homelessness? Try the case management division first 👈
Joseph shared his team's recent usability testing with Veterans experiencing homelessness and noted that there were difficult moments. Veterans felt questions were invasive, there was resistance to the form, and a big disconnect between their mental models (one VA) vs. ours (Veterans Benefits Administration a.k.a VBA doesn't share important data with Veterans Health Administration a.k.a VHA). For example, they might ask, "Why do I have to share my personal information again when I already shared it with VHA?"

#### Karen dropped some wisdom here 🧠
- Karen recommended reaching out to the case management division within VA. They are dedicated to homeless Veterans, and may be the best people to start testing a form with since they work day in and day out with them.
- She also noted that studies may be less successful if Veterans' basic needs are not being met. Why would they have the time and space to fill out a form?
- Finally, Karen shared that Veterans may have a negative experience with the VA if the VA denied their compensation, which could have been their source of income. Many can trace homelessness back to the VA because of this.

#### Others chimed in too ✋
- Brittany asked, do our _teams_ have the tools to do research like this safely?
- Joseph noted that Charlotte was an absolute champ here given her previous experience.
- Lydia added an idea to try a different method that's _not_ usability testing; would more empathic methods that change the format and expectations to have open ended conversation improve the research?
- Martha reminded us that we can end sessions _anytime_ and Veterans will still be paid

### Practice makes perfect, and turning the doorknob in therapy 🚪
Liz brought up a lesson she learned in her small group, which recently conducted practice sessions with Rachael to prepare for a prescription refills study. 

- Practice, practice, practice. Liz noted how helpful it was to rehearse with Rachael ahead of her study. For example, she learned that discussing medications could recall activating things. 
- Sometime at the 45 minute mark in their small group conversation, there was a _turn_ in the conversation. Like a doorknob turning and opening up, her group suddenly found themselves more comfortable to talk which opened up an intense discussion. 
- Rachael named that technically as "turning the doorknob" in therapy-- have y'all experienced this moments too?

### So... how do we build time in to turn those doorknobs? 🤔
Well over the 30 minute mark, we began talking about how to turn more doorknobs in our research.

- Liz noted that we need more flexibility. How do we provide space to the Veteran if they want to talk about something? How do we build more agency into the research process? That doorknob moment might happen 45 minutes in, and within an hour session you may only have 5 minutes to really talk about it.
- Josh noted that historically our research wasn't set up to be trauma-informed. We were likely focused more on agility than quality or safer experiences with Veterans in our research. How do we address the historical, systemic roots here?
- Lydia added that we should focus on choice. Can Veterans choose how they participate? e.g. a focus group, individual conversations, etc.
- Karen commented that we should adapt our recruitment strategy based on what we're studying. Some things may require more hands on resources (which VEO has but VA.gov may not have). VEO is able to recruit themselves and not through Perigean, allowing them to better inform Veterans, give them space, and more.
- Karen also noted that it can be difficult at times to convince others on the value of considering the intersections of DEI and trauma work-- and that the approach we use for "trauma" should really be the approach we use for everyone. It's a human approach. Everyone deserves to be human... but how do we quantify that? It could be a count of no-shows, if sessions are running over time, and more.
- Lydia suggested exploring who we can call on as advocates at VA.gov (e.g. are there folk on the governance team who would be supportive of this?). She also recommended explicitly mentioning our trauma group in our readouts in a way that goes beyond just listing participant demographics. For example, breaking norms of objectivity by focusing more on what happened for the researcher.

## Action Items ✔️
- [ ] **Everyone** consider mentioning the trauma-informed community in your research readouts if it was valuable to your process. The more we evangelize as a community the better!
- [ ] **Needs volunteers** to create a stakeholder map for pushing forward trauma-informed work at the VA

