# Yellow Ribbon School Finder Conversation Guide for Moderated Research

## Intro - 5 minutes

Thanks for joining us today! My name is Liz Lantz and I also have some colleagues on the line observing and taking notes. Today we're going to talk about Yellow Ribbon education benefits, and how you, as someone eligible to receive them, understand your benefits and go about using them.

Before we start, a few things I want to mention:

- This entire session should take about 40 minutes. I want to be sure not to keep you much longer, so I may occasionally prompt you with the next question or topic.

- In this session, we want to hear your honest opinions. We are not testing your ability. We just want to improve these tools to better meet Veteran's needs. I will not be offended by any opinions you express, and I welcome your feedback. The more you can think out loud and share what you're thinking as you go through the session, the better.

- You'll be interacting with an interactive prototype. This is means it may not function exactly the way you expect. Some areas of the prototype will be clickable, and some will not. Since it's a demo, none of your actions will affect your actual VA information or benefits.

- If for any reason and at any time you want to stop the session, please let me know.

- Are you comfortable if I record my screen and audio as we talk today? We use the recordings to confirm that we have captured your opinions accurately. The recordings are destroyed after we complete analysis, and none of your comments will be attributed to you directly.

- - If yes: Once I start recording, I am going to confirm that you are ok with me recording this session once more.

Start recording.

- I have started recording. I'd like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record my screen the audio as we talk today?"

## Warm-up Questions - 10 minutes

Before we look at the website, let’s start with a few warm-up questions.

For participants who are in the process of researching their education benefits:

- I understand you're considering going to school, and using your VA education benefits. That's great! Where are you in that process?

I’m still in the beginning of my search, but I’m looking to continue past a masters. I have 2 ½ months of funding left as I finish my masters so I have some time, but I’ll need my GI Bill and YR benefits.

- Do you know what you want to study?

Masters – marketing management, I‘d like to build on that in a marketing specific way.

- I'd love to hear about your research and decision process so far.

What stage of your military service were you in when you decided to go to school?

I had a bachelors before the military and knew I would eventually go back to school afterwards. 

How many schools are you planning on applying to?



What factors make you want to apply to a specific school?

A combination of cost and program quality in our area.

How have you done your research on schools so far?

Lots of Googling

How about research on education benefits available to you?

I paid into the Montgomery Bill, but I’ll flip over and start using my post 9/11. University of Maryland is a top school for me, and they participate in Yellow Ribbon. I learned about the Montgomery when I enlisted and then I did my own research (Googling) and used the education office while in the military to find out more. 

Have you encountered anything that made it harder, or easier, to do this research?



Are you familiar with the Yellow Ribbon benefit? Tell me how it works.

A little bit – I know University of Maryland and Penn State are Yellow Ribbon schools. It serves as a buffer if the GI Bill doesn’t cover everything. It seems to depend/vary based on the school.

How does it fit into your decision making process?

I’d like to not pay out of pocket to stay debt free. 



Describe the environment you’d be n for this research.

In my home; in my office or living room, on my laptop. 



For all participants:

- How did you first learn what VA education benefits were available to you, and how Yellow Ribbon fit into those benefits?



- Were there any parts of the process that were particularly confusing? If so, how did you get clarification?



- Imagine I don't know anything about VA benefits. Can you tell me how the Yellow Ribbon program works?



We're almost ready to move to the prototype now, and I'll ask you to do a few tasks related to finding schools and understanding Yellow Ribbon benefits. Before we jump in, can you tell me where you would typically conduct this type of research?

## First Task: Find relevant schools in legacy Yellow Ribbon tables - 5 minutes

*finding Yellow Ribbon information from va.gov*

*went directly to education block -> GI Comparison Tool* This seems to be specific to the GI Bill, but Yellow Ribbon should fall under those benefits. It would make sense to have a dropdown for YR benefits, but I don’t remember where it is. *walked through to YR page* This page isn’t terrible – it breaks it down simply to tell you if you qualify and the steps you need to take. It doesn’t seem hard to navigate, but this section was pretty buried and hard to find. This page seems like it could be a bit overwhelming especially for people with TBIs.

- Start on Yellow Ribbon benefit hub page.

- Find a school they're interested in, and tell me the Yellow Ribbon benefit information for that school

- - If participant is interested in a state with a very small number of rows, once they have completed the task, ask them to react to a state like California with numerous rows.

Things to watch for:

- How does the participant understand and navigate the accordion pattern?



- How does the participant navigate the table on the state page? (Ctrl+f, manual scroll, etc)



- What emotions/thoughts does the participant verbalize while looking at a table presentation of this data?



## Second Task: Conduct a search in prototype - 5 minutes

- Go to the other tab we opened earlier, with the prototype.
- Take a look at the content on this page. Tell me what you think this page is for, what you can do here. You can scroll up and down, but don't click on anything just yet. Think aloud as you look.

It’s a lot cleaner – less clutter. If I had my list of schools that I’ve already narrowed down to, it would be very easy to just find them. I’d prefer a search rather than scrolling.

- What are your thoughts on the search criteria?

*seemed unsure of search criteria*

- Let's imagine you live in California, and you're interested in finding an in-state school for a Bachelor's degree. Go ahead and see if you can find that.



- After results are presented:

Again, take a look at the content on this page. Don't click on anything just yet. Tell me what you're looking at, what you can do here. Think aloud as you look.

It’s nice that there is an option to “add to compare”. The information is broken down well without being overwhelming – I like the summary; its concise and all you need. To find a specific school, I would have to click through the tabs of results. Is there a way to narrow down by different campuses of the same school? Having school rankings would be helpful to give more info/context per program.

Imagine you wanted to see this list in a different order, such has highest benefit amount first. How would you do that?



Does the information about each school feel complete to you?

A good piece of info would be the cost of living variation across the schools from whatever GI Bill wouldn’t cover.

Is the meaning of each piece of information in the card clear to you?

Is the max funding amount per student or a total for all students? I’d guess it is per student. Degree type would refer to the level of degree. 

If you wanted to see the next set of schools, how would you do that?



## Third Task: Compare schools and change criteria - 8 minutes

- Let's say you're interested in [School A, School B, and School C] , and you want to see which one offers Yellow Ribbon to the most students. How would you do that?

- - If student does not use add to compare button and make their way to the comparison table, guide them there

- Tell me about this screen - what do you see here, what do you think you can do?

I’d search through this list and compare the top schools for me. Once I clicked add to compare the button popped up to compare the selected schools. I’d be most interested in looking at the funding amount vs. funding available. 

- What are your thoughts on the way this information is presented?

It’s a similar breakdown to the other page, but it organizes the info differently. This way is a little easier to compare.

- If you wanted to update this list somehow, how would you do that?



- Now that you have this information about these schools, what would your next step be?

I would narrow down the list and look for a way to get more info. – maybe if you can have it emailed to you or an encouragement to start applying even through the common app for schools. At this stage you either would want more info are to start applying.

- Imagine you want to go back and search for something different, maybe a specific school, or a different kind of degree. How would you do that?

The green button at the bottom. Or the tab that takes you back – which I would expect to take me back to the list of schools. If I re-click the button for comparing, I’d expect it to unadd from my comparison list. 

## Post-Task Interview - 5 minutes

- Do you have any other thoughts or feedback you haven't had a chance to share yet?

I like the search option. Something that veterans may be interested in is school size so that could be useful to include. 

*thoughts on existing page* - it’s organized well but it’s a lot on one page. The test version cleans up a lot of the need to export or hand-write from this page. 

- Any questions for me?



## Thank-You and Closing - 2 minutes

Well, we really appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us today. Your feedback is so helpful to us as we continue to work on the site and make sure it really works for Veterans.

Thanks! Lastly, do you know any other Veterans, caregivers, or service members who might be willing to participate in a future user research session? If Yes: Thank you! I'll have our team send you an email with a little blurb that you can pass along.

Great, well thank you so much again, and enjoy the rest of your day!
