## PO Sync meeting 3/27/2023

### Notes - Discussion about the future visions of the 10-10EZ and 10-10CG forms
- 10-10 EZ
     - Long term dream has always been to phase out the application.
     - VA has a lot of info about the Veteran from various sources (DOD, In-service health care, etc)
     - VA Should be able to offer enrollment without the Veteran having to apply - VA Outreach
     - Short Form flow is a small step in that direction
          - The team is working on expanding short form eligibility
     - **What is blocking this dream to becoming reality?**
          - Legal/regulatory requirements state that the only way to determine eligibility and enrollment into health care is to complete and submit a 10-10EZ form.
     - Something worth looking into
          - Veterans fill out a claim for disability.
          - There is a checkbox on that form that the Veteran can check to also be enrolled into health care.
          - There was an attempt to auto-enroll Veterans based on this check box, was live for a short time (not sure when), but Legal came in and said that this process does not follow the regulation requirement
          - VA could change this requirement/regulation, but that will take time and proof that it is a benefit to increase enrollment
     - **What steps can we take before that happens?**
          - Possible solution: Instead of auto-enroll based on checkbox, we import the data from the claim form to the 10-10EZ and allow Veteran to review & submit (time saving)
          - What other possibilities are there?
          - Is there potential to come at this problem through another product that could be more effective at proving our case?
          - Are these things technically feasible?
          - Would these solutions make a compelling case to drive enrollment upwards?
          - How can we use the solution to **prove** that the regulation could/should change?
     - Metrics
          - There is no measurement today for costs on the current process
          - We do know that 30% of monthly enrollments flow through the Short Form flow, skipping financial disclosure information (income, deductibles, Spouse, Dependents)
               - This supports an arguement that those 30% wouldn't need to file, could just be enrolled based on specific criteria (>50% disability rating).


- 10-10CG
     - Long term dream is to maximize the benefits for Veterans and Caregivers through the program
          - Learn more about the needs of Veterans and Caregivers **after** they have been approved for the program
          - Is there anything that we can do between submission and approval/denial to improve the experience?
          - **Explore having Caregiver information in the VA.gov Profile or My VA**
               - VA characterizes this is where all things pertaining to the Veteran lives
               - Is this information valuable to the Veteran and/or Caregiver?
               - Is it worth having on the VA.gov Profile or My VA?




