## Meeting with Susan Haidary, MHV

Attendees: `Susan` `Anthony` `Elizabeth` `Tyler` `Jay` `Mike`
<br> Purpose: Asking susain Haidary questions about MHV coordinators

## Notes
- Anthony sets context
- Susan gives some background:
  - She works with Carnetta
  - Has been with the VA 30 years
  - Has been with MHV since day 1, November 11, 2003
  - MHV will be 20 years old on Veterans day this year
  - We have VISN coordinators
  - Each coordinator has an assigned facility (or more than one, like a region)
  - Manage MHV programme with their VA; but there’s also satellite community based outpatient clinics (CBOCs)
  - Sometimes there’s only 1 coordinator in a region; but there’s CBOCs scattered all around
  - MHV coordinators will manage CBOCs
  - Some have back up coordinators, some don’t
  - They work with leadership, Veterans, staff, and local VSOs (like American Legion, VSW)
  - They’re the face of MHV within the whole community
  - Many of them go and do a lot of outreach where they do authenticate and in-person proof
  - Their plates are full
  - Susan was a MHV coordinator back in the early days
- Each coordinator has an assigned facility. It seems like not every facility has a coordinator though. How many coordinators nationwide?
  - There should be a MHV coordinator at each facility
  - If there’s not one, there should be a backup
  - Sometimes there are 2 coordinators for the facility; because they’re at different campuses for example
  - Need to make sure that there’s coverage
  - MHV help desk uses this listing (shown on screen) all day, to connect Veterans to the right coordinator
- Mike asks if there’s a coordinator at the clinics or only at the large hospitals?
  - Sometimes the coordinator might be at the CBOC
  - But when Covid hit, the dynamic changed
  - VA’s were closed for emergency only, CBOCs were down, VA video connect (VAVC) was key in getting Veterans upgraded and ID proofed
  - The coordinators worked remotely
  - That has continued, there’s a number of coordinators that are working remotely
  - They found out “it works fine”
  - There still needs to be “warm bodies” in the VA or the CBOC
  - The coordinator will identify a “champion” at each clinic who can ID proof – or if they can’t ID proof, they fill out a template and send it to the coordinator who authenticates them
  - Ideally, they have someone at the CBOC who can do everything, though (ID proof)
- Mike asks if you can use VIC for identity proofing?
  - VIC: Some of them have an ID number attached to them and some don’t
  - Right now, yes
  - But will that change in the future, maybe
  - Because many of them don’t have an expiration date, might not be as secure, kind of in question
  - It has to be an exact match to their VA medical record; if anything is off here (on template?) then there has to be an extra form of identification
- What are the requirements to be an authenticator?
  - Most MHV coordinator are MHV authenticators (probably 100%)
  - An authenticator can be anyone in the facility that a MHV coordinator identifies
  - If a coordinator comes on, they’re brand new, they need to take specific training
  - Mandatory training
  - Back in the day: Some people were doing illegible things eg. creating accounts for patients without them knowing, so we had to work with privacy, security etc. to come up with a course
  - Authenticators take these courses:
  - MHV Privacy and Security Rules of Behaviour Course
  - Manage User Roles Course
  - After they submit their certificate of completion (to Patty Henry and Susan), Patty and Susan go in and provide them access as authenticator role – the super user
  - You can express an interest in becoming an authenticator (with your supervisors approval), you complete these courses in TMS, you send the certificate to Patty or Susan, Susan would go in and pull up your name and give you authenticator role access (the super user)
  - You can become an authenticator, calendar administrator…
  - Best way to do it is have authenticators sprinkled all throughout the VA, and then a min of 1 authenticator at each CBOC
- Which tools do authenticators use?
  - Anthony gives some examples, for example, identity management toolkit for VHIC enrollment
  - Susan thinks some may… she doesn’t sound familiar with identity management toolkit
  - She asks: Is that to upgraded? What? Where? Oh VHIC. Okay.
  - Not familiar with it
  - They go into the MHV admin portal
  - Susan shows what she would do to change Anthony’s status to authenticator
  - Role would be: authenticator (once you do those TMS courses)
  - Primary coordinators would do this and make people authenticators (not Susan/Patty?)
  - Shows how a MHV coordinator would upgrade accounts
  - Starts on Manage MHV users tab
  - Searches for real person (not screenshotted: PPI)
  - Inside the patient’s profile you can see things like:
  - When they opened the account
  - What type of account eg. Premium
  - Where they authenticated
  - If they have another account eg. ID.me
  - To upgrade someone from Premium, you’d be filling out the form with their govt issue ID information (using that template, for example)
- MHV coordinators are eager to help Veterans with Login.gov ID proofing. We’ve heard from others that there are union stipulations around this. Can you tell us anything about that?
  - Anthony says he’s heard MHV coordinators contracts would require them to have training on IPP 60 days in advance. Other legal considerations though?
  - Susan mentions that last week she was talking about unions
  - Back in the day, maybe 5-7 years ago, we had a form, in order to upgrade, Veterans had to sign (wet signature) VA form 10-4252A (maybe incorrect), to release their information
  - Rather than asking the Veteran to go to an ROI office, they sign this one time form – they still need to be ID proofed – but then that form would be scanned and added to the patient’s medical record
  - But that form went away; we went online. So we had to go to the union about that. And it took a very long time. It was definitely over a year.
  - Based on that experience, we created that mandatory course, and we also have a directive to back us up.
  - With the directive, the union said you need a directive for this (if I can recall correctly)
  - Directive created the mandatory course: the course literally was mandated by congress
  - Not an easy process. Not to scare you!
- Follow on comments or questions
  - Elizabeth: Question for next time about the id system she was showing us… Does it validate against an authoritative source?

