## May 8, 2023: Login.gov Questions for MHV

Attendees: `Anthony Levin-Decanini` `Tyler Gindraux` `Matt Conway` `Carnetta Scruggs` `Susan Haidary` `Katherine Lawyer` `Bresha Lipscomb` `Treva Lutes` `Gwendolyn McMillian`
Purpose: Identity (core) has questions about Login.gov for MHV leadership

## Notes

### Mike/Matt asked MHV/Susan some questions before the call
- Are MHV-C’s only verifying/proofing users for ebenefits or also login.gov?
- How are users being directed to VAOS and VAVC? Is it by phone call only?
- Are users scheduling their own appointments for VAVC via VAOS?
- At what point in the proofing process are MHV-C seeing that users are having the most issues?
- If we were to add comms on VA.gov surrounding VAOS and VAVC for proofing, is this something MHV-C’s have capacity for in terms of assisting users in the verification process? This would be an effort to identity proof vets for login.gov accounts specifically.
- What would be needed from a union perspective or does this fall under the scope of what MHV-C is already doing?
- Users need an account to use VAOS. If they do not have one, how do they schedule an appointment? (call?)
- What type of support might be needed from the Identity team to help with this process to enhance it?
- To what extent do MHV-C’s help a veteran get proofed in person at the VA? For example if a veteran goes into a VA and wants help creating a login.gov<http://login.gov/> account, can an mhv-c assist in that today?

### Coordinators might go above and beyond, but doesn't mean it's necessarily in their job description
- Matt: Can you confirm that MHV coordinators are assisting Veterans create accounts?
- Carnetta: But they can't make the accounts for Veterans, they can just help.
- Carnetta: They can answer questions if a Veteran is having a hard time with Login.gov. But that's if their supervisor/director doesn't mind if they're going above and beyond what they're expected to do.
- Carnetta: Some coordinators go above and beyond, but that's not necessarily what they're supposed to do.
- Carnetta: They're asked to do things on behalf of MHV.
- Susan: There's turnover too. People leave.
- Katherine: Are MHV Coordinators supposed to be doing verifying/proofing identity? If not, who at a facility is the person that mostly does that?
- Carnetta: A MHV coordinators role is to support the MHV website and Veterans using the MHV website. As the VA converts to Cerner, then they're expected to support MHV website and Cerner patient portal, My VA health.
- Carnetta: A lot of directors want to get away from having lots of positions with specific roles (a different person for every program that comes around). They want us to tell them what support they need.

### How can verification be more seamless? Directors want to know
- **Carnetta: New thing is we should identity verify someone right when they pull out their ID, not have a separate role for identity verification.**
- Carnetta: You need to know that there's big differences in facilities and that MHV coordinators aren't full-time staff. The directors are saying, why should we keep doing this just for MHV when there's all these identity verifiers all over the medical centers doing it everyday.
- Carnetta: When a Veteran goes to an appointment and pull out their ID already, hand them a temporary password with their email address. And they have 24 hours to sign in to Login.gov and set up their account.
- Katherine: Would need to make sure the Veteran has longer than 24 hours to login as well.
- Carnetta: Directors want this new credential to be handed out during already existing identity verification processes.
- Susan: There's training that needs to be done prior to them getting access to the admin portal.

### We should use the existing VA wide tools, not the MHV specific ones
- Carnetta: Identity verification is VA wide, it's part of many people's regular jobs. MHV coordinators is just for MHV. But there's nurses who visit people at their homes, clerk who register people for outpatient, or clerk registering for telehealth, nurse inside the room with the patient.
- Carnetta: They don't need to access the MHV admin portal for Login.gov though.
- Carnetta: At the medical center, they use a different tool then MHV coordinators. So the MHV Admin Portal on in-person authentication had to mirror the identity toolkit that everyone else at the VA uses.
- Carnetta: I'm drastically trying to stop the MHV username and password, then they don't need the MHV admin portal. You need identity verifiers at a medical center, which there are many of them. They take your identity and record it in a different tool that's not the MHV admin portal. That's the tool we want to modify to take in their ID for a Login.gov credential. Hand them a temporary password to get a Login.gov account.
- Anthony: Name of that tool? PO?
- Carnetta: I know the PO. I already talked to them. I talked to Cody Reingold about this before he left. Talked to John.
- Carnetta: So we can hand out existing Login.gov credential.
- Carnetta: I'm worried they're going in the direction of MHV coordinator when it's a Login.gov credential, unless the MHV cooridnator is going to be trained for the VA wide tool.
- Carnetta: It's the tool they use when you get a VHIC. I need to follow up with the name. (Is it Identity verification toolkit?) Yes, probably. Name has changed over time.
- Anthony: The challenge with using it for Login.gov is it isn't verifying against an authoritative source. At least in its current state. We could adapt.
- Carnetta: MHV doesn't verify against those authoritative sources either. We just need to adapt the tool.
- Carnetta: It's an easier lift to adapt the identity verification toolkit than using the MHV admin portal. We can add an API in it. We can meet with the developers and flush out the requirements it needs to invoke and use that as the identity verification source.
- Carnetta: We should train MHV on this tool. That's what the directors are asking. MHV admin portal should go...
- Carnetta: We can discuss with John/Tom and with ONIT staff.

### How would staffing changes happen, in this scenario?
- Anthony: I see that a big hurdle is contract changes for MHV coorindators. But if you're saying there are so many staff at these sites, that could potentially take this on, will we still have same contract concerns?
- Carnetta: They're VA staff employees. Unions. The director dictates what happens: For example, all identity verifiers, including MHV coordinators, should we able to do this.
- Carnetta: That's the flow of command. We're dealing with the directors who manage hospitals and resources.
- Carnetta: Getting on director calls, you'll find out what they're request is.
- Carnetta: They came to Theresa and OCC and asked us to stop asking for MHV coordinators, I need telehealth coordinators, tell us overall what you need and we will tell you how it fits in with resources and staff we already have.
- Carnetta: I think we can get this done quicker, sooner, better by following that path. (Talk to directors, tell them what needs to be done, discuss with them and they choose resources).
- Carnetta: You need to tell us what you need done.
- Carnetta: Everytime a new tool comes out don't ask for a new resource. Go to the directors and tell them and they will figure out resourcing.

## Actions
- Anthony and Carnetta follow up to meet. Invite Mike/Matt. Discuss directors and workflow; as well as identity verification toolkit.
