

###  Login.gov Adoption x VHIC for Identity Verification

Attendees:                  

Attendance: 
VA: Edward Horne, Tom Black, Kimberly Bostic, Anu Sriti, Keith Russ

Login.gov Adoption: Sofia Kirkman, Lauren Morris, Dawn Munoz, Steve Dickson, 

Notes



* Intros - Tom first
    * Modernize sign in process, work with MHV team 
    * Working with VA.gov 
* Team is building a service for IPP, working with Login.gov to do this migration to use Login.gov to log into VA.gov 
* In order for them to do this they need an IAL2 account 
* The verification process for proofing remotely is fraught with issues
    * We are starting the pilot with VA 
* Hosting the sign up process at a lot of VA facilities
    * Work with staff that already have access to the application
* Strong desire to have VHIC as an ID that we support 
* The varied formats of VHIC makes this very difficult
    * Edward: Use the Identity Toolkit or use the ID?
        * Kirk: We will use the ID, like a DL to assert identity
* None of the VHIC cards have an address 
    * The VHIC has been used quote unquote as an ID, to check in and things and it has morphed into 
    * Used to get on a DoD installation, used to board a Plane
    * Does not fall into the traditional pathway for ID use
    * Just added an expiration recently, prior cards did not expire
        * Working to have it removed from approved IDs for TSA
    * Any DoD commander on the base can deny access to those using that ID type 
* Tom addressing Edward: “Its interesting to see how you view the ID and your perspective.” Edward: “It has snowballed into something larger, this is not our mission and it's hard to enroll in a new process. It's a membership card really and has morphed into an ID. They used it to get discounts. Well if I can use it at the VA, why not get on a plane.”
* Tom: “Its interesting that we want to use it as another ID and you are moving away from that”
    * Having to increase the rigor related to identity proofing. There are executive orders and other things at play. 
    * Should it be used as an ID, and if so is it rigorous enough. Consider us in the exploration phase. Maybe we can use some pieces from VHIC, so it is part of a larger paperwork around proving identity. 
* Edward: “We are constantly torn between, VA employees wanting to issue a VHIC to someone who is homeless. They do not have an address or DL, but we want to get them medical services. We are in the process of reissuing VHIC for folks in the wildfire, we are running into issues since many are using the VHIC to prove identity to get a new VHIC card. In the field they may issue, but now that has been centralized.
    * Using VHIC in some capacity, perhaps as part of other parcel of documents to prove identity. I would like to work together. 
    * VHIC coupled with Identity Toolkit - could meet this requirement
        * They are still using Black and White photos
    * 10 year expiration 
        * SSN was in the strip, that has been removed and they use a USER ID
        * Service connected, branch of service, 
        * Purple heart recipient
            * MVI and receive those designations
    * Lots of experations will be coming next year, lots of people will not renew and lots of people will continue to use them to get services even though they are expired. 
* 2014 started the newest VHIC proofing process, VAMSI, CBOT
    * Self service portal to do Level 2 
        * Federal issued ID
    * VIC - issues by VEO 
    * Completely different, one is mandated statutorily by congress, the other is not
* 90% who have VHIC have another ID, but the homeless 
    * The ideal outreach would be to give them Federal or State ID, and not do this work around with VHIC
* Edward: If we increase the variety of ID types, then we increase the Veteran population who has access to services, 
    * State ID is the ‘gold standard’
        * If we accept Passport, well they have State ID so not getting any value there
        * Focus on the underserved population instead
    * At some point VEO would take over, where we have one standard ID to rule them all
    * When you try to move forward you will run into a lot of roadblocks, long term they want that, but short term lets solve problems with the current programs. 
* We have made changes to support the ID concept, but we need to draw the line somewhere. We will keep the features that we have, but as for new features there is some uncertainty there. 

Action items
