
Meeting Topic: LGA to Login.gov Data Flow and Integrations

Date: 10/6/23

Attendees: 

[akhlaq.khan@gsa.gov](mailto:akhlaq.khan@gsa.gov),

 alex.rowley@gsa.gov, 

Carrie McGrath - QQ2C &lt;carrie.mcgrath@gsa.gov>, 

Dawn Muñoz &lt;dawn@themostudio.com>, 

Lauren Morris &lt;lauren@themostudio.com>, 

michael antiporta &lt;porta@themostudio.com>, 

Rahul Vyas &lt;rahul@themostudio.com>, 

sdickson@greenthreadsllc.com, 

Sofia Kirkman &lt;[sofia@themostudio.com](mailto:sofia@themostudio.com)>

**Meeting Notes**



1. Prototype Walkthrough
    1. Prototype screen share (Recording made)
    2. Dual facing application for Veteran to complete in-person proofing
        * View 1: Veteran
        * View 2: Proofing agent
    3. Veteran View:
        * Veteran able to choose location based on convenience
            1. Going to use VA.gov service that has been stood up for geolocation data on sites
        * Offering walk-ins to avoid need for building out or connecting to scheduling system
        * Veteran issued case number
            2. Will also be emailed to Veteran
        * Have 10 days to visit VAMC and present case number which is needed to verify in person
            3. Login.gov allows for 30 days once Veteran issued bar-code to complete in person verification for USPS model
        * Proofing agent may be volunteer, long term goal, designated role
    4. Proofing Agent View:
        * Veteran presents case number, PA verifies
            4. If no case number made, Veteran may create a new one
        * Asks for Veteran to confirm email
        * Veteran needs to present photo ID
            5. **Need to confirm if VHIC may be a complementary document as it is issued by MPI**
        * Application provides features to enable them to confirm if document is valid
        * Pilot will include paper guide to validate identification
        * Basic info view
            6. **Need to confirm if SSN is required, possibly NIST policy, will confirm**
            7. Current address required in order to send follow up letter to avoid fraud
        * Verify in IAM Toolkit
            8. Proofing agents will be required to have received identity toolkit training
            9. Burden because app cannot input MPI data, so Veteran must re-enter information into Verify in IAM Toolkit
        * After steps completed in IAM toolkit, proofing agent will return to proofing application
            10. Will input ICN (Integration Control Number) number
            11. Confirm they are verified
            12. Will confirm email is correct to receive confirmation
            13. Will be sent a letter to reduce risk of fraud 
        * Closed window
            14. Details that case number is closed
            15. Now able to use login.gov account to login
2. Data Flow Share Out
    5. Screenshare of data flow (recording made)
    6. Identifying data sources through Intake flow for Veteran
    7. Clarification on third party review of identification documents

**Suggestions/Questions**



    * Can case number search also include name, email
        * We will see if we can integrate that look up capability 
* Would it be possible to support photo id?
    * We plan to support all forms of photo id
        * Currently vetting drivers license services to determine what 
* Are we creating an unhappy path?
    * Can do that, have not done yet
    * Sitemap featuring decision making that occurs at each step
* Rahul: API documentation for Login.gov?
* Carrie: What do we need to capture on the DL level and backend level to meet IAL2 standards?
* Akhlaq: where will the data live and how do we send PII bundles?
* Carrie: We use USPS’s API to create the barcode number. That is what ties our authenticated accounts to their system. So when the user walks in, the USPS retail person scans the barcode/barcode number as the very first step
    * But their system does NOT allow for appointments, so we could not include that in our workflow
    * Their system is the RSS system…retails services something or other….I can find the name but not sure it matters
* There is an external way to communicate with the system (12:59PM)
* 

**Action Items**



* LGA:
    * Identify service line that informed our decision for 10 days
    * Will send IAM Toolkit Screens, sitemap to Akhlaq
    * Rahul will follow up with Akhlaq to identify photo identifications
    * Kirk will present sitemap featuring decision making at next Login.gov Bi-weekly meeting
    * Build out clearer picture of data diagram from which apps (third party or not) its pulling from
    * Kirk will send out recording
    * Follow up conversation with Login on 10/10
