Summary of our [2020-04-06] call and the initial solution ideas we can start exploring deeper.
 
Example page we looked at – live and in Drupal: https://www.va.gov/disability/compensation-rates/special-monthly-compensation-rates/
 
**RE managing historic VA.gov rate pages – will start when we transition from 2020 to 2021:**

- Beth’s idea is to simply clone the current (2020) page in Drupal; we should be able to change the URL of the 2020 historic page, so that we can link to it from the evergreen “current” rates page.

- Per Mickin’s point re do we really want to replicate the VBA legacy model of forever maintaining historic years – we can raise this issue again with VBA and propose max 3 years, and retire/redirect historic pages older than that to point to the ‘current’ info URL.

- Need to explore/confirm: IA impact; historic rate page URL pattern with @mikki@adhocteam.us
 
**RE ongoing maintenance of rates tables:**

- CSV import/upload function already exists in Drupal. It is for each unique table on a page however, and does not map to all the data in all the tables on a page (i.e., treating all the tabular data as one data set).
- To treat all the tabular data on a page as one data set that maps to the FE would require custom coding. This custom coding would be extremely bespoke for every type of rates information we have. Not a good solution.
- Possible in-between solution: Recreate each table on a page as individual worksheets in a spreadsheet; provide the combined spreadsheet to SMEs to update rates and send back to content team; content person uploads each worksheet in the spreadsheet as a csv file into Drupal for the specific table.
    - This is still somewhat manual, but less than today and provides a more sustainable way of letting SMEs make rate updates ‘directly’ in a more usable format than today; it also removes the step of the content person manually entering text in each data field in the CMS table interface.
- To explore/confirm: How hard would it be to provide an export functionality in addition to the import feature that already exists? @beth.jacobson@civicactions.com
    - (E.g., So that Drupal is always the source of truth for the baseline updates – for example, if we or SMEs lose the spreadsheet we send them, there’s an export way to recreate spreadsheet worksheets for each table.)
 
**Next step:**
Sync on ‘to confirm/explore’ items above with Mikki and Beth.
