Warm-up Questions - 5 minutes
Can you tell me a little about yourself? (if needed, ask about service history)
Lives in Fort Worth, TX. Served in Navy for 9 years. A journalist and first, then mechanic, and is now perusing a master’s degree. 
What device are you joining us on?

Do you currently, or have you ever, received any benefits from the VA?
If yes: What benefits?
Yes, I am 80%. I qualify for free health insurance and use it. 
Do you currently, or have you ever, filed a claim or appeal with the VA?
I filed a claim, but not an appeal. 
(if yes) How do you check for any updates or changes to your benefits?
I routinely go on eBenefits and review my letters. It is my sole source of income so I check it to be sure that the money is coming and that I am still 80%. 
Have you ever used the My VA page on VA.gov? What do you use it for?
Yes. I can’t think of what I use it for off the top of my head, but I usually just use it for prescription refills. I also had to get a letter of eligibility when I started pursuing my masters. I also use the GI Bill.
How do you manage your benefits?
(if needed: do you ever go online?) Where do you go?

Do you ever manage your benefits on VA.gov? Tell me about that.
(if they haven't mentioned it: Are you familiar with My VA? Tell me about your experience with it)

Background and questions - 7 minutes
Just a little bit of background before we start - we are working on building a central place for you to receive any action items, updates or reminders on VA.gov. These could be anything related to health care, benefits or just general announcements.
Have you ever seen a place on any websites that you user currently that has this kind of information all in one place?
*’No* I think it would be good to compile everything into one interface that covers everything. 
What would you expect that type of information to be called?
Benefit announcements or summary. You could call them notices.
What kind of information would you expect to be on a page like this?
I do like how the VA was sending out notices about the vaccine – so important notices for everybody would be good to include. Job notices would be good to include. 
What are some scenarios in your life where you would want a page like this?
Imagine that you do have new [USE THEIR WORD], how would you know?
Where would you expect the VA to tell you about that?
I only go to the VA website for things that are serious to me. I would want it to be on one condensed page that is shown as soon as I log in and land on the main page. After you log in I’d expect it to be in the top/middle that tells you to go to the notification page. 
First task - Scenario - 5 minutes
Participant should be on first page of the prototype.
Now that you’re looking at this prototype, where would you go to find some of the updates we just discussed, starting from here?
I like the alert tab at the top with the big red button – you can’t really miss that *immediately opened alerts*
I would typically start the very top and see what stands out most and I like the red icon shows me there is something there.
I noticed you clicked on [section].
Why would you expect it to be in this section?
What are you looking for here?
Second task - Alerts indicator - 3 minutes
Go ahead and scroll to the top, and take a look at the 'Alerts' with the little bell and the red dot.
What does that mean to you?
What do you expect to happen if you click on the bell?
What is confusing about this?
Okay, great! That's it for the prototype, so we'll go ahead an move on to the next activity.
Third task - My VA - 7 minutes
Let's go ahead and click on 'My VA'. I have another scenario for you. Imagine you recently went to a VA doctor and she said she would send you a message about your results. Can you walk me through how you would see that?
If they said that, ask
Why would you expect it to be in this section?

Let's take a look at the Alerts section on My VA.
What are your thoughts on this section?
This just shows the 3 most recent alerts – I think that is a better rather than showing 1-50. Though, they are in sequential order, so it makes sense.
I like that you can see a new message from you doctor – its nice to be able to see it from this page instead of signing into the other site for messaging. *Tried clicking view all messages* I assume clicking that would show me the message in MHV. 
I like how the information is presented. I have no idea what the form is for though, if I logged in and saw that then I would be wondering what it is for. I see that you can click on it and I assume it’d tell you more about it – I would figure it out as a I continued through that because the VA is good about explaining those. I can see that it shows the last action on your claim, it doesn’t show when the last compensation was sent, but there is specific section for that. 
I get text message and email reminders, but I would still like to receive the alert here – redundancy isn’t a bad thing. 
The layout is really fluid for a mobile device, some pages struggle with that.
What would you do next with this info?
What information about your alerts would you want to see on your personal dashboard?
What do you think works about this section?
What do you find confusing here?
What would you change about this section?
If you were to click on 'View all alerts', what would you expect to happen?
Used Alerts at top rather than view all alerts
Go ahead and click on 'View all alerts.
Fourth task - Alerts - 10 minutes
Go ahead and scroll through this page and walk me through what you're seeing here.
What are your overall thoughts about this page?
I like that it shows my name, branch, and percentage at the top – it looks good. I would expect that if you clicked on that it would generate the disability letter for you. I also like that it shows you how many alerts you’ve gotten over the past few days.
It would be good if it told me how many NEW alerts I have, I can only see that on My VA.
Why do you think you are seeing these specific alerts?
Because they pertain to me
What information is useful here?
What would make one notification more important than another one?
Health care should be at the top, claims can be at the bottom because those don’t change often.
Upcoming appointments are important and should be highlighted until the appointment has passed. 
Knowing that prescriptions are shipped isn’t a priority – we also get texts about that.
The hearing is a priority because it pertains to somebody’s disability. (Even if I already got a text about it). I like that the form is at the top because Kimberly needs to complete it – it is out of dated order, and I assume that is because it’ll expire. I didn’t notice the exclamation point at first. 
What would you do next with this info?
What does it mean to take action on an alert?
How far back are you expecting to see your alerts?
I see that it says, “last 30 days” and I guess that makes sense so that it doesn’t get too cluttered.
What do you think works about this page?
The simple layout.
What do you find confusing here?
Nothing – it is straightforward.
What assumptions are you making about this page?
That all of the links work – it would be frustrating if they didn’t. 
That Kimberly does not receive education benefits.
What would you change about this page?
Maybe there could be more of a color variation between the different types of notices. Or maybe every other message has a different background color to make it more visually appealing – that is something minor. 
I would make the exclamation point or expiration date (Form 22-1990N) red to make it stand out. 
What is missing on this page?
Not that I can think of – except maybe education benefits for me, but it looks like this person is seeing what they need to see.
Okay, great - any questions or thoughts before we move on?
If users initially clicked on alerts, loop back to the third task
CLOSING QUESTIONS - TIME PERMITTING - 2 minutes
How did these pages meet your expectations?
It is better than expected - I like it. 
How did these pages not meet your expectations?
Do you think you would or would not use these pages when you log in to VA.gov? Why?
if no: What would make this page more useful to you?
I would definitely use it – it would be my first stop shop. I would like to be taken straight to this page after logging in. It is dummy proof. 
