Can you tell me a little about yourself? (if needed, ask about service history)
I am 34 years old. I have 1 child. I am divorced. I’m an aircraft mechanic. I was in the Air Force between 2008 and 2012.
What device are you joining us on?
iPhone
Do you currently, or have you ever, received any benefits from the VA?
If yes: What benefits?
Yes, I currently do. I receive disability and I use the GI Bill. I also bought a house with a VA loan.  
Do you currently, or have you ever, filed a claim or appeal with the VA?
Yes
(if yes) How do you check for any updates or changes to your benefits?
Have you ever used the My VA page on VA.gov? What do you use it for?
How do you manage your benefits?
(if needed: do you ever go online?) Where do you go?
I use eBenefits and MHV. 
Do you ever manage your benefits on VA.gov? Tell me about that.
(if they haven't mentioned it: Are you familiar with My VA? Tell me about your experience with it)
I would start with eBenefits and if that didn’t work I would Google it. I do not manage my benefits on VA.gov.
Background and questions - 7 minutes
Just a little bit of background before we start - we are working on building a central place for you to receive any action items, updates or reminders on VA.gov. These could be anything related to health care, benefits or just general announcements.
Have you ever seen a place on any websites that you user currently that has this kind of information all in one place?
What would you expect that type of information to be called?
Action items? Information updates
What kind of information would you expect to be on a page like this?
Demographic, address, healthcare location/primary care providers, prescriptions, upcoming appointments, referral approvals (that’d be nice instead of having to call), claim rating, the annual amount and expected payment dates, info for my housing loan/certified venders & APR rates, Veteran organizations that you could join. 
I would expect there to be tabs for each of those things that I could click through – they’d each have their own page with more details/links. 
What are some scenarios in your life where you would want a page like this?
Imagine that you do have new [USE THEIR WORD], how would you know?
Where would you expect the VA to tell you about that?
In an email. I receive emails from the VA currently. 
First task - Scenario - 5 minutes
Participant should be on first page of the prototype.
Now that you’re looking at this prototype, where would you go to find some of the updates we just discussed, starting from here?
They are broken down right here. They aren’t tabs but they’re similar. I would go to alerts to see notifications. 
I noticed you clicked on [section].
Why would you expect it to be in this section?
What are you looking for here?
Second task - Alerts indicator - 3 minutes
Go ahead and scroll to the top, and take a look at the 'Alerts' with the little bell and the red dot.
What does that mean to you?
Alerts lets me know there is something that needs my attention. The red dot lets me know there is something there. 
What do you expect to happen if you click on the bell?
I’d expect that it’d take me to a page with a bunch of notifications.
What is confusing about this?
Nothing
Okay, great! That's it for the prototype, so we'll go ahead an move on to the next activity.
Third task - My VA - 7 minutes
Let's go ahead and click on 'My VA'. I have another scenario for you. Imagine you recently went to a VA doctor and she said she would send you a message about your results. Can you walk me through how you would see that?
If they said that, ask
Why would you expect it to be in this section?

Let's take a look at the Alerts section on My VA.
What are your thoughts on this section?
I was looking for a “view all alerts” (easy to find) in case you wanted to see more than those three. It is showing the 3 newest alerts. They are things that I have not viewed already. It may be good to add a distinction if you have already opened an alert. For example: once the form has been viewed, it would indicate that. If it has been submitted then it would just go away.
I do like how they are separated by category here and that there is a spot just for messages. It makes it look really easy. 
The amount of info for each alert is perfect, it is not too much but isn’t too little. The less the better, too much can be overwhelming. It is just what you need.
What would you do next with this info?
What information about your alerts would you want to see on your personal dashboard?
What do you think works about this section?
What do you find confusing here?
Nothing. Nothing is missing.
What would you change about this section?
I like it the way it is, but there could be a dropdown for each section and also for the alerts to open more information rather then being taken to a new page. That would help if someone had a lot of alerts. 
If you were to click on 'View all alerts', what would you expect to happen?
Go ahead and click on 'View all alerts.
Fourth task - Alerts - 10 minutes
Go ahead and scroll through this page and walk me through what you're seeing here.
What are your overall thoughts about this page?
Maybe these should be categorized by type of notifications the same way they are on the first page. Is there an area for archived alerts? If I had a previous appointment that I needed to find then I’m not sure where I’d get it.
I think this looks good.
Why do you think you are seeing these specific alerts?
These are things that need attention. The form needs to be submitted and I have an upcoming appointment. They are all things that you should be expecting.
What information is useful here?
What would make one notification more important than another one?
Each person individual person’s concerns depending on what is going on in their life. Certain things could be more or less important to different people. I would not expect there to be a hierarchy to these, I would just expect to see the most recent one first – that way all of my new alerts would be at the top. 
What would you do next with this info?
What does it mean to take action on an alert?
For the form, I would click on it and submit it. For an appointment, I would want to be able to click on it to reschedule or cancel. For a new message,  I would just want to be able to open it and read what the doctor has to say. 
You either need to plan for these or read the alert. If I clicked into one of them and did something to it, and then came back to the alerts page, I would expect it to be right where it was before, not at the top.
How far back are you expecting to see your alerts?
A year. There could be another section for, ”show archived alerts.” I see that they are in descending order so that the most recent one comes to your attention first – that works.
What do you think works about this page?
That the alerts are in chronological order. I like that the topic is in bold print. I like the exclamation on the form alert because it draws your attention and needs to be done by a deadline. I like that it has the date, time, and place of appointments. I like that there is a next button so that you don’t have to click each page individually. 
What do you find confusing here?
Nothing
What assumptions are you making about this page?
What would you change about this page?
*Being able to archive alerts*
I would want the alert to include a link for me to join from if the appointment is virtual.
What is missing on this page?
Okay, great - any questions or thoughts before we move on?
If users initially clicked on alerts, loop back to the third task
CLOSING QUESTIONS - TIME PERMITTING - 2 minutes
How did these pages meet your expectations?
The alerts are in the same order between the alerts page and My VA and are consistent. It’s pretty great – you don’t have to go to different websites to get information for different topics, its all right here and the latest and greatest is at the top. 
How did these pages not meet your expectations?
Just that you can’t archive if you want to – that’s it.
Do you think you would or would not use these pages when you log in to VA.gov? Why?
if no: What would make this page more useful to you?
I would because it is centralized, everything you need is in one place. It’ll be great when this roles out. 
