# Conversation Guide for "registration only" mental model study [Health Enrollment Team, 10-10EZ, August 2023][Cohort 2 - Currently Enrolled]

*Start recording.*

- **I have started recording**. I'd like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record my screen and the audio as we talk today? 


## Warm-up Questions  - 5 minutes

Let’s start with a few warm-up questions.

- Are you currently enrolled and using health care benefits from the VA?
> Last week, being treated for prostate cancer.
> Yes I am
- How often do you visit a VA facility?
- How often do you visit VA.gov?

## First Topic: [Current Application Process] - 10 minutes

- Can you explain to me in your own words the process you took when you applied for benefits?
> Many, Many years ago. First encounter here (Ann Arbor) in 1985. (71 years ago)
- [If they don't specify] Did you complete this online, in-person or via paper application by yourself?
> Apply for a particular issue. Back then (1985, paper), you rarely go because it take a long time to get treated.
- Was there any part of that process that was frustrating or difficult for you?
> Tedious but understandable.
- What is your recollection about the amount of information you had to provide?
- When it comes to registering and health care at the VA, what does that mean to you?
> Now it is a lot easier.
> Back then, you can sit down with someone and they'll fill it in for you. For people that is not computer savy, it is very frustrating. The more technological we become, the more indept we become. When you don't have a caregiver and I can't take myself home. VA would not let me leave the hospital but does not have a bed.


### Things to watch for:
- [What terminology does the Veteran use as they talk about their experience (enroll, register, priority groups, etc)?]
- [How does the Veteran portray the overall process - easy, difficult, uneventful?]
- [What pain points or areas of confusion are revealed?]
- [What things does a Veteran talk about in regards to the term registration? VA Facilities?]


## Second Topic: [Choosing Benefits/Understanding Eligibility] - 10 minutes

- How did you determine what health benefits you could get when you recently completed the application?
- What resources did you use and how to understand what you might qualify for?
> Cousin in the military, a Lifer, that helps me understand the benefit. Back in the day, you have a bunch of people waiting on you and that's a "no-no". The VA is not functioning like it should, had to visit multiple times.
> The previous administration set up a 'hotline', a scheduled adminstration. He used for operation, the VA does not have a bed, he used that hotline at least 3 times.
- Did you want to only get care for one specific health concern, or were you interested in enrolling in full health care coverage?
- Looking back now after you have been using health care benefits, is there anything you wish you would have known during the application?
  

### Things to watch for:
- [How does the Veteran descirbe the process of figuring out what they are eligble for - are they frustrated, do they find it easy, do they just expect the VA to have the data and figure it out for them?]
- [Is there a mix or preference for wanting to be told what they get or search it out on their own?]
- [Is there any confusion about their benefits within the health care benefits they recieve?]



## Third Topic: [Understanding how to use benefits] - 10 minutes
- Explain to me in your own words what you get with your VA health care benefits?
- What help or resources did you rely on to help you figure this all out?
- Can you tell me more about what Priority Group you are in for your health care benefits now?

[If aware of Priority Groups]
- Can you please describe how this was communicated to you and how you understood the impact to you and your benefits?
> I don't know the priority group. I get treated well with urgent care (it is like emergency care). He wishes the VA would prioritize...
> Visiting VA, multiple day, appointments at different locations, can't drive self home.
- Before you completed enrollment, how were you aware of Priority Groups or copays as part of the health care benefits package?
- [if yes] Can you tell me more about what you knew before you applied and how you learned that information?
- Since you have been using your benefits, what have you learned about Priority Groups and the impact it has on you and health care benefits that you wish you knew during the application?

[If NOT aware of Priority Groups, ask question and skip to fourth topic]
- What do you think Priority Groups are? There is no right or wrong answer here, just explain your understanding of what you think it could be and how that is important to health care benefits. 


### Things to watch for:
- [How do Veterans describe their awareness of benefits? Confident, unsure, frustrated?]
- [Do Veterans consistently rely on word of mouth or a variety of in person resources to understand their health care benefits?]
- [Do Veterans' confidently know their Priority Group and what that means to them and their benefits?]
- [What is the current process and experience around Priority Groups?]
- [What are the knowledge gaps around Priority Groups and health care costs?]
- [What things would Veterans like to see or like to change in regards to Priority Groups?]




## Fourth Topic: [Ideal State] - 10 minutes
- Could you describe how - in a perfect world - you would **want** the health care application process to go for you in regards to learning about benefit options and what you qualify for?
> Like to see more stuff like this, maybe a 30-minute video of how to apply for this, that, and others. Specifics. One benefit I didn't have is Dental. I had 100% disability but I did not have dental. I like to know what I have and what I don't have.
> Youtube has a lot of videos. I think the VA myhealtheVet should be more maneuverable. The site thinks want know what you want, the chat is not useful. Like to jump on the phone, give name and social security.
> If we're going to use the technology, you give veteran feedback.
> The VA has come a long way.
> Easy for you to maneuver this because you're used to it but harder for the Veterans.
- How would you want to learn about how to use your benefits that you are eligible for?
- What tools, communication, people could make this the best process possible in your mind?
- How would you like to discover what options you have to get the level of care that is right for you?
- What information would be important to you so you feel confident when having to choose between health care benefit options?


### Things to watch for:
- [Are there any terminology used that stand out as the Veteran is describing their ideal process?]
- [What steps do they call out?]
- [What steps do they leave out?]
- [What do they mention or call out as information that is helpful in making decisions about health care benefit choices?]




## Fifth Topic: [Current paper instructions] - 10 minutes
- For this next topic, I am going to share my screen and show you an example of instructions that appear on the health care benefits application.
- Can you explain to me in your own words, what these options mean and how they are different?
> "Full Medical Benefit Package provide" shouldn't it be "provided"
> See that is kind of frustrating. Why don't you tell me what the full Medical Package is? Am I apply for Enrollment or am I Enrolling? It is so much gobbledygook, that you'll need someone to translate it. It could be summed up in 25 words.
> I don't know what 36, 37, or 38 reads like. I have to go back to
> Hoover over the "38 CFR 17.38" and word bubble will give definition like the bible study app.
> "A lot of this stuff looks Greek to us"
> This is hard to understand without a VSO officer
> It pisses me off to no end if the person can't just say "I don't know".
- Which one would you select and can you explain to me your thinking behind that?
- Is there anything about these instructions that you find confusing or need more explanation before you could answer?


- [Link to Mural board for example](https://app.mural.co/t/departmentofveteransaffairs9999/m/departmentofveteransaffairs9999/1690928150976/0ce17c5b63ed3a2fd75736ac481d2d6e31fd927b?sender=uadf1ed7fe7c76f0914967329)

- Now that you have seen an example of choosing benefit options, would you change anything about your ideal state we just talked about right before this?
  

### Things to watch for:
- [What are the scenarios or examples given to why registration would be the preferred choice?]
- [Is selecting both options a common answer?]
- [What words and terms to participants use when they are explaining the differences?]
- [Is there often confusion to what to choose and what that means to them and their health care benefits?]



## Post-Task Interview - 5 minutes

- Is there anything else you would like to add about what we talked about today?
- Any questions for me? 
