# Conversation Guide for "registration only" mental model study [Health Enrollment Team, 10-10EZ, August 2023][Cohort 2 - Currently Enrolled]

*Start recording.*

- **I have started recording**. I'd like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record my screen and the audio as we talk today? 


## Warm-up Questions  - 5 minutes

Let’s start with a few warm-up questions.

- Are you currently enrolled and using health care benefits from the VA?
  > Yes
- How often do you visit a VA facility?
  > Maybe once a month
- How often do you visit VA.gov?
  > Everyday just to check and see if anything changed

## First Topic: [Current Application Process] - 10 minutes

- Can you explain to me in your own words the process you took when you applied for benefits?
  > Initially when I applied I was denied. So I walked away and came back 4 years later, wait,... I didn't know to get the benefits, you just had to ask.
  > I was so busy hiding the fact I was a Veteran hadn't considered all the benefits
  > Then I filed a claim of what happened to me in the military
  > [gap of time] yes, it is It is frustrating.
- [If they don't specify] Did you complete this online, in-person or via paper application by yourself?
  > I went into the building in 2017 and someone finally listened to me, and a young lady was walking me to another department to somebody who could address those needs
  > [help from those at VA facility]
- Was there any part of that process that was frustrating or difficult for you?
  > yes, the beginning the middle and the end.
  > So in the beginning, just walking up to the building was intimidating. Little black girl from Houston Texas saying somebody in this organization need to be held accountable from what happened to me.
  > Gave me a form and said, write it down in your own words
  > Took me a while to talk to a woman and get that
  > Once the claim stared, just had to go to where the process took me
  > This Veteran's worst fear, the VA will give me benefits and that ... don't know
  > That is the middle, what benefits I have, do I need them, which ones to ask for
  > Now I guess we will say I am at the end of the processs, How do I maintain, How do I use them
  [Need to check recording to refine direct quotes]
- What is your recollection about the amount of information you had to provide?
  > They know everything about me, the time I was born, what happened after, who my mom and daddy are,
  > I had to physically write down on a piece of paper what happened
  > What happened in the incident, what happened after. I had to write it down as if they have never heard of it before.
  > I wanted to mention that I communicated that to you. You know how some people use the race card, as a woman I experienced that being an african american
  > Normally all white male behind the desk. It feels condensending to say this happened to me on your watch and
  > Have to write it with my hand, my pen, my energy
  > 
- When it comes to registering and health care at the VA, what does that mean to you?
  > Huh
  > If you are not computer literate, it is going to be a problem
  > I had to figure out how do I sign up for login. Why do I need two logins, why do I need an authenticator.
  > Almost when and found the ID.me office, they had that last reserve nerve, they were on that one.
  > If they can't verify you,
  > My brother is a Veteran, why do I need a password, why can't they take my word for it.

### Things to watch for:
- [What terminology does the Veteran use as they talk about their experience (enroll, register, priority groups, etc)?]
- [How does the Veteran portray the overall process - easy, difficult, uneventful?]
- [What pain points or areas of confusion are revealed?]
- [What things does a Veteran talk about in regards to the term registration? VA Facilities?]


## Second Topic: [Choosing Benefits/Understanding Eligibility] - 10 minutes

- How did you determine what health benefits you could get when you recently completed the application?
  > I had to read everything
  > I wanted to go to school and get a degree. I didn't know if I needed the pre911, post911, and had so many conversations with the rep and so many days left to go to school. I gave up.
  > Need medical....
  > So if you don't read, can't read, not used to read. There is a problem
  > You are waiting for someone to tell you and they are not going to call and tell you
  > Reading was helpful to me and clicking on all them damn pages
  > This is proof somebody different made the website. If I am just getting VA benefits. show me the process. THen take me to step 1
  > Let's look at health, mental, school.....
- What resources did you use and how to understand what you might qualify for?
  > VA.gov you got shit on there for the pre-911 college, the Vietnam .. they go by when you were it.
  > I would like a grid. They way they have it I have to read everything first then decide this is the one for me.
- Did you want to only get care for one specific health concern, or were you interested in enrolling in full health care coverage?
  > I don't have an existing conditions, what I wanted was health care that covered everything. Pap smear, mamogram, dental, eyes
  > That's what I beleived I signed up for,
  > Makes me wonder if ther eis something else, am I missing something.
- Looking back now after you have been using health care benefits, is there anything you wish you would have known during the application?
  > Yeah, let me know if I qualify for dental.
  > Quit making me quess, and then you go there and they tell me you have to be 100%
  > Why to I have to be 100% before I get full benefits, it makes people,Veterans yearn strive to be 100% by any means necessary.
  > I would have liked to have know that I know later, specifically if I don't have a percentage, what do I qualify for.  

### Things to watch for:
- [How does the Veteran descirbe the process of figuring out what they are eligble for - are they frustrated, do they find it easy, do they just expect the VA to have the data and figure it out for them?]
- [Is there a mix or preference for wanting to be told what they get or search it out on their own?]
- [Is there any confusion about their benefits within the health care benefits they recieve?]



## Third Topic: [Understanding how to use benefits] - 10 minutes
- Explain to me in your own words what you get with your VA health care benefits?
  > With my VA benefits, health benefits or all together?
  > With my health benefits, go to any VA anywhere and get a checkup. Go to emergency care. pap and mamogram. Dental, eye and ear care. 
- What help or resources did you rely on to help you figure this all out?
  > Myself and reading
- Can you tell me more about what Priority Group you are in for your health care benefits now?
  > Yes, oddly enough I was reading all those damn papers they sent
  > I am in Priority Group 1 but I have no idea why

[If aware of Priority Groups]
- Can you please describe how this was communicated to you and how you understood the impact to you and your benefits?
  > When I first was given a service connection, I was sent a manilla envelope about 30 papers front and back. Found a paper that listed pri
  > I dont' think it said how I fit in Priority Group 1, couldn't have been all that important because I don't remember
  > What is the benefit of being part of Priority Group 1?

- Before you completed enrollment, how were you aware of Priority Groups or copays as part of the health care benefits package?
- [if yes] Can you tell me more about what you knew before you applied and how you learned that information?
- Since you have been using your benefits, what have you learned about Priority Groups and the impact it has on you and health care benefits that you wish you knew during the application?
  > Not a damn thing


[If NOT aware of Priority Groups, ask question and skip to fourth topic]
- What do you think Priority Groups are? There is no right or wrong answer here, just explain your understanding of what you think it could be and how that is important to health care benefits. 


### Things to watch for:
- [How do Veterans describe their awareness of benefits? Confident, unsure, frustrated?]
- [Do Veterans consistently rely on word of mouth or a variety of in person resources to understand their health care benefits?]
- [Do Veterans' confidently know their Priority Group and what that means to them and their benefits?]
- [What is the current process and experience around Priority Groups?]
- [What are the knowledge gaps around Priority Groups and health care costs?]
- [What things would Veterans like to see or like to change in regards to Priority Groups?]




## Fourth Topic: [Ideal State] - 10 minutes
- Could you describe how - in a perfect world - you would **want** the health care application process to go for you in regards to learning about benefit options and what you qualify for?
  > And this is going to
  > Personalized emails like Kaiser Permanente does, they have my info send me shit just for me.
  > Stop sending me general information that goes to any Tom, Dick or Sally.
  > That applies specifically and only to me. You have all my damn information there.
  > I love Kaiser. They only send him emails when it is time for a checkup or refill, when it is time for his appt they remind him. After, they send him an email, and hey we have those test results. and can see and call video chat with us if you have any questions.
  > 
- How would you want to learn about how to use your benefits that you are eligible for?
    > Well, because you know I have medical issue a b or c, when you find a way to improve my medical issue a. Send me text or video or emails about that.
    > You send me an email about 15 topics, you know I have a short attention span, by the second one
    > You think you are doing well, you have the advantage VA, you understand you are sending me junk mail shit and I am going to delete.
    > I like MyHealtheVet
    > Don't make me click a lot of things to find stuff
    > Show me you care about me the individual
- What tools, communication, people could make this the best process possible in your mind?
  > I do enjoy when, I am a member of the gold team, I enjoy when a member of the gold team calls me. And tells me how to prepare
  > Personalize it to the individual, it makes me believe even if you don't give a shit about me, makes me feel on this call you care about me.
- [personalized and proactive]
- How would you like to discover what options you have to get the level of care that is right for you?
    > I'm new to the VA, need it spood fed to me.
    > Maybe next time, there is a button about I am ready for vegetables now, not just baby food
    > Then move up to professional
    > Not everybody is at the same level at the same time
- What information would be important to you so you feel confident when having to choose between health care benefit options?
  > Lay the table out in front of me like a Thanksgiving meal, and let me choose what I want
  > Once I type in my social and login wiht that damn user id and password and all those codes, you know who I am after that
  > Give me all my options and let me choose

### Things to watch for:
- [Are there any terminology used that stand out as the Veteran is describing their ideal process?]
- [What steps do they call out?]
- [What steps do they leave out?]
- [What do they mention or call out as information that is helpful in making decisions about health care benefit choices?]




## Fifth Topic: [Current paper instructions] - 10 minutes
- For this next topic, I am going to share my screen and show you an example of instructions that appear on the health care benefits application.
- Can you explain to me in your own words, what these options mean and how they are different?
  > [reading instructions]
  > Conflicting information right there, in the first sentence conflicting information
  > Haven't even got to the bullets yet
  > All right, the first question is what is this about. Is this for somebody if they need to enroll and register
  > It would be nice if it was all in one,
  > We use those terms in the military, enrollment and registration
  > But somebody who doesn't
  > To me it looks like I get more if I register
  > Then it will start the you qualify for
  > That makes sense to me register first, then we look at our options of what we need to enroll for
- Which one would you select and can you explain to me your thinking behind that?
- Is there anything about these instructions that you find confusing or need more explanation before you could answer?
  > I don't like ... registration. For registartion only complete sections 1, 2, and 3. The very next sentence says enrollment not required. Immediateley I am on pause, questioning my decision
  > Why are we doing two things, why can't we just do one, and then we go to the next step where there might be enrollment.
  > 


- Now that you have seen an example of choosing benefit options, would you change anything about your ideal state we just talked about right before this?
  > No, because once I register. We don't have a relationship right now, once I connnect. You don't know me, I don't know you.
  > For me it makes sense to register with your organziation, then we go into the what can we help.
  > THen we get into, check me out medically, then what else is going on. That makes sense with the relationship
  > You see that sentence that says MST, I am not used to saying that term to myself, let along on paper. That would shut me down right there,
  > 

### Things to watch for:
- [What are the scenarios or examples given to why registration would be the preferred choice?]
- [Is selecting both options a common answer?]
- [What words and terms to participants use when they are explaining the differences?]
- [Is there often confusion to what to choose and what that means to them and their health care benefits?]



## Post-Task Interview - 5 minutes

- Is there anything else you would like to add about what we talked about today?
    > Yes
    > Oddly enough, I purposely do not talk to people who are not Veterans about what it is like to be a Veteran
    > But, mean to say but instead of however
    > In this context, how uncomfortable to start a relationship to the VA.
    > It feels theaurapeutic. 
    > Thank you
    > Why do we feel like we have to convice the VA of everything. I have to proov my experience is valid.
    > It make me feel like, if I revealed too much they are going to come and get me.
    > Until I get new information that is where I am at.
- Any questions for me? 
    > 
