# Conversation Guide for "registration only" mental model study [Health Enrollment Team, 10-10EZ, August 2023][Cohort 2 - Currently Enrolled]

## P12


*Start recording.*

- **I have started recording**. I'd like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record my screen and the audio as we talk today? 



## Warm-up Questions  - 5 minutes

Let’s start with a few warm-up questions.

- Are you currently enrolled and using health care benefits from the VA?
  > Yes
- How often do you visit a VA facility?
  > Right now, it's upwards of 1-2 times a week
- How often do you visit VA.gov website?
  > Several times a week

## First Topic: [Current Application Process] - 10 minutes

- Can you explain to me in your own words the process you took when you applied for benefits?
  > The first time I had to go with a Veteran service officer, it was beyond my comprehension, there was a process I had to file for benefits to begin with
  > there was no option, now you leave and have these options, you have to prove everything to the VA.
  > It is an uphill battle.
  > you can do it online now, there explanations they kick back are so vague
  > It doesn't say you didn't do this and that.
  > They don't break it down in laymens terms
- [If they don't specify] Did you complete this online, in-person or via paper application by yourself?
  > The first time I filed was in 2019, the pychiatrist, office gave me the run around, that claim was shut down and that was done with that
  > 
- Was there any part of that process that was frustrating or difficult for you?
  > I have a combination of illness and it stems from the location of where I was stationed in the air force
  > All my illnesses can be traced back to that, it is a very specific constellation. None of them are cancer right now, that is the threashold
  > Until I have cancer there is no
  > Even with me submitting every bit of the paperwork and this it was shot down
  > we are forced to beg for something that we should have to
  > applying in person, it was annoying process
  > There is 15 or 20 desks and 1 or 2 people working.
  > Things should be a little bit easier for Veterans to go through.
  > I am disabled due to mental illness, the VA still won't recognize it. 
- What is your recollection about the amount of information you had to provide?
  > For how to file?
  > With the online thing now, pretty straightforward (claims) it could be one thing they are looking for and if you don't hand it to them directly.
  > You have to spoon feed it to them
  > (quote from video)
- When it comes to registering and health care at the VA, what does that mean to you?
  > The registering process was slow and annoying but I understand it
  > Health care, what I am finding, is it is a system designed to tell you no, that's it.
  > THey are going to make me jump through the hoops and give them to try and get that information from another health care system
  > It should be able to link up systems (be automatic)
  > I had relatives it worked for the VA system. My grandfather was in WW2, lived ina living room of an apartment, that was his life up until he passed away.
  > I didn't know you had to apply for your VA benefits when you get out.
  > You have to get a copy of the DD214 that you got from their records somewhere
  > The insanity of not making that 

### Things to watch for:
- [What terminology does the Veteran use as they talk about their experience (enroll, register, priority groups, etc)?]
- [How does the Veteran portray the overall process - easy, difficult, uneventful?]
- [What pain points or areas of confusion are revealed?]
- [What things does a Veteran talk about in regards to the term registration? VA Facilities?]


## Second Topic: [Choosing Benefits/Understanding Eligibility] - 10 minutes

- How did you determine what health benefits you could get when you recently completed the application?
  > that' just it, there is nothing that says what you can and can't get at the VA
  > There was a think $10 copay, medicine they didn't mention pricing or anything else
  > THen I find out, you get VA disabilitly, so all this is included. No no no they have an incremental disability
  > Left with this thing that makes it a tier system and there is no explanation of how things work
  > If you read this online, if you can get anyone to help you
  > THe communcation is notrotios
- What resources did you use and how to understand what you might qualify for?
    > Read online, it is always digging
    > There is nothing, this is how this works. There is no basic easy format of anything.
    > But if you are dealing with anything that is the grand overall body of it, then you are going to get things
    > Prime example, you are going to get mistakes and things haven't been updated in forever.
    > (quote about card with number) call it and says this is not a working number. But this is the only thing they gave me
    > You have to go digging for everything even at the local level
    > I look for everything I can find on the VA.gov stuff but there are times they don't update that for months
    > I was feeling sick, sinus infection, when to a facility found it had been closed and there is a new clinic. And they built another new clinic. The updating is notrocious.
- Did you want to only get care for one specific health concern, or were you interested in enrolling in full health care coverage?
- Looking back now after you have been using health care benefits, is there anything you wish you would have known during the application?
  > To not expect more out of anything, the flat basic minimum of getting something accomplished.
  > There are two times, those that excell and those that want to (check recording) 
  > VA as an organziation, excells at both of those
  > The rewards of meeting those individuals make it different, but the system
  > It should be when you turn in your military ID, here is your VA id
  > It should be, you have to find out what you have to do
  > I served 20 years and I have to prove, yeah
  

### Things to watch for:
- [How does the Veteran descirbe the process of figuring out what they are eligble for - are they frustrated, do they find it easy, do they just expect the VA to have the data and figure it out for them?]
- [Is there a mix or preference for wanting to be told what they get or search it out on their own?]
- [Is there any confusion about their benefits within the health care benefits they recieve?]



## Third Topic: [Understanding how to use benefits] - 10 minutes
- Explain to me in your own words what you get with your VA health care benefits?
  > The reason I originally filed for my benefits because I got divorced after 25 years
  > Between my ex's and my medicare, there was no copays on stuff and it was a seemless thing
  > Now I have to deal with I only have medicare, and the VA seemed to be a better option as a lower copay on things to get things done.
  > Now it seems, remind me of the question again, I am getting derailed.
  > If you don't stay on top of your primary care physician makes it a bigger struggle. The turnover and gatekeepers to make it to specialists makes in notorocious
- What help or resources did you rely on to help you figure this all out?
- Can you tell me more about what Priority Group you are in for your health care benefits now?
  > What was that again?
  > As in, ..... 

[If aware of Priority Groups]
- Can you please describe how this was communicated to you and how you understood the impact to you and your benefits?
- Before you completed enrollment, how were you aware of Priority Groups or copays as part of the health care benefits package?
- [if yes] Can you tell me more about what you knew before you applied and how you learned that information?
- Since you have been using your benefits, what have you learned about Priority Groups and the impact it has on you and health care benefits that you wish you knew during the application?

[If NOT aware of Priority Groups, ask question and skip to fourth topic]
- What do you think Priority Groups are? There is no right or wrong answer here, just explain your understanding of what you think it could be and how that is important to health care benefits. 
> I think it is part of the things I was reading up on, and the differnet levels of where your benefit level is and where you are on the plan.
> I mean I only have a 10% disability rating with the VA
> In 2018 I was diagnosed,
> Dealing with the VA, it took me 2 years to change who my primary care doctor was. And me having transportation, it didn't help things,
> As far as priorities, I just had a liver scan of my liver back in May, they are now moving my liver scans up to every 6 months. On the cusp of stage 3 stage 4.
> Had a friend who married his high school, they let him pass away before they ever got around to his liver transplant.
> It sends me over here, no ever one job
> There is a langauge barrier issue, they may have degrees and everything dont fault any one for that, they don't listen
> I don't think they consider anybody a priority
> Between the lack of resources on their side, never anything is a priority
> If it a gun shot, sure wouldn't go to the VA
> They don't make it feel like anyone is a priority

### Things to watch for:
- [How do Veterans describe their awareness of benefits? Confident, unsure, frustrated?]
- [Do Veterans consistently rely on word of mouth or a variety of in person resources to understand their health care benefits?]
- [Do Veterans' confidently know their Priority Group and what that means to them and their benefits?]
- [What is the current process and experience around Priority Groups?]
- [What are the knowledge gaps around Priority Groups and health care costs?]
- [What things would Veterans like to see or like to change in regards to Priority Groups?]




## Fourth Topic: [Ideal State] - 10 minutes
- Could you describe how - in a perfect world - you would **want** the health care application process to go for you in regards to learning about benefit options and what you qualify for?
> You should be able to have a hard copy and a digital copy once you walk out of your discharge and active duty
> What you are entitled to what you qualify for the different levels
> Right now you have to do all the searching and hunting and stuff

- How would you want to learn about how to use your benefits that you are eligible for?
> Finding out through 15 different sources, and find out yeah this was changed. Even their people were not informed.
> They have been screaming about the PACT act since it first happened, people heard about you
>
> People have heard about it replied repeatedly and turned down.
> The websites are notrocois
> One clear thing instead of 50 different areas would be so much easier.  
- What tools, communication, people could make this the best process possible in your mind?
> For me to disseminate the information or determine if there is information.
> Either
> Video probably right now, show you the links where to find information. Or other videos, chapter marking something like that. 
- How would you like to discover what options you have to get the level of care that is right for you?
> I'd like a hard copy that I can look at it.
> They can flip flop and change.
> That phone number is one prime thing. This right here is a phone number where you have to call for you transportation to your appts.
> One disconnects 30 seconds after it ringing.
> I'm in the appointment yesterday are these are the numbers I need to call to try and get into my (table of numbers) you can see there are more than 3 extension there.
> When it rings or nobody answers, if it doesn't work it doensn't matter how they present it.
> Even if it was just an app on the phone, Veteran information services, linked it all together for us less tech savvy paper
> A lot of information, scattered everywhere and it is not accurate. 

- What information would be important to you so you feel confident when having to choose between health care benefit options?
> Well there really is no choice
> You have to jump through whatever hoops they have
> If you want to contact, they are just going to forward the message. You never hear confirmation from you doctor, I got your information I need to look this over.



### Things to watch for:
- [Are there any terminology used that stand out as the Veteran is describing their ideal process?]
- [What steps do they call out?]
- [What steps do they leave out?]
- [What do they mention or call out as information that is helpful in making decisions about health care benefit choices?]




## Fifth Topic: [Current paper instructions] - 10 minutes
- Can you explain to me in your own words, what these options mean and how they are different?
  > Types of benefits for enrollment, you just discussed you were in the military to prove it, so why isn't this already happening
  > Oh great wonderful. This is ridiculous.
  > Care for a Veteran.. you are registering for a disability rating, becuase you have a disability rating
  > Why are you registering, if you filed for VA disability, you should already be registered in the system
  > So you could be at 50% disability but not yet registered in h
  > Again, you are registering for something you should already have in the system
  > Breaking things down into .. this is ..we don't need a the whole illustrated medical to do this. This is absolutley ridiculous.
  > You want people who have already had trauma, to register that on paper
  > There is nothing easy or beneficial on this entire page
  > Other than checking the two boxes on the bottom

  > To me it doesn't make any sense.
  > What is the difference between medical package and health services?
  > We are going to the minutia of nomenclature to break things down, two process that should be just one.
  > If you are getting in the VA system, you shouldn't have to register for anything else.
  > Maybe I'm not registered for anything at the VA, now that I am readign this.
  > I need to do all this reading just to figure out what the hell is going on with this, just to figure it out.
  > This is nothing but frustrations. 
  
- Which one would you select and can you explain to me your thinking behind that?
  
- Is there anything about these instructions that you find confusing or need more explanation before you could answer?

> I would check both boxes and send it on it's merry way.
> I shouldn't have to check any boxes, if I have a VA card shouldn't I be enrolled and registered in any benefits available. 


- Now that you have seen an example of choosing benefit options, would you change anything about your ideal state we just talked about right before this?
> Reading this, it sounds more and more if you are enolled it is everything and the registered it is the sub parts.
> It doens't make any sense. If I am at the VA and they identify me as having a heart murmu, so oh you didn't check this box so
> Registration sounds like it s (check video)
> The VA to work on one specific thing, but to explain it like this is, it just doesn't.
> So checking both boxes wouldn't work with there system, so yeah enrollment would be the one I select once I calmed down and read it some more.
  

### Things to watch for:
- [What are the scenarios or examples given to why registration would be the preferred choice?]
- [Is selecting both options a common answer?]
- [What words and terms to participants use when they are explaining the differences?]
- [Is there often confusion to what to choose and what that means to them and their health care benefits?]



## Post-Task Interview - 5 minutes

- Is there anything else you would like to add about what we talked about today?
  > I understand the need for disclosure, but I don't think they should be including it in the text. Put notes, put a link so you can read where it comes from
  > If it is a requiremnt to put this on that frustrates people like me, look at it and shake their head and check both boxes and move on. 
- Any questions for me? 
