# Conversation Guide for "registration only" mental model study [Health Enrollment Team, 10-10EZ, August 2023][Cohort 2 - Currently Enrolled]

*Start recording.*

- **I have started recording**. I'd like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record my screen and the audio as we talk today? 


## Warm-up Questions  - 5 minutes

Let’s start with a few warm-up questions.

- Are you currently enrolled and using health care benefits from the VA?
  > yes
- How often do you visit a VA facility?
  > Lately it has almost been once a month
- How often do you visit VA.gov?
  > Um, probably about once a month or more to get to the messages

## First Topic: [Current Application Process] - 10 minutes

- Can you explain to me in your own words the process you took when you applied for benefits?
  > Oh man that has been a long time
  > Honestly, i don't remember what I did, Got onto the website and followed the prompts, forms to be completed
  > Can't explain more than that it has been too long
  > About 2018, 2019
- [If they don't specify] Did you complete this online, in-person or via paper application by yourself?
- Was there any part of that process that was frustrating or difficult for you?
  > No not that I can remember
- What is your recollection about the amount of information you had to provide?
  > the only information I had to provide was my DD214 and then medical records that pertained to what I was claiming
  > I did it myself, didn't use someone else
- When it comes to registering and health care at the VA, what does that mean to you?
  > What do you mean, like registering on the website or just in general?
  > [health care] Just making sure I am covered, that is the whole reason I did it.
  > Peace of mind, move forwrd with whatever issues I may have going forward


### Things to watch for:
- [What terminology does the Veteran use as they talk about their experience (enroll, register, priority groups, etc)?]
- [How does the Veteran portray the overall process - easy, difficult, uneventful?]
- [What pain points or areas of confusion are revealed?]
- [What things does a Veteran talk about in regards to the term registration? VA Facilities?]


## Second Topic: [Choosing Benefits/Understanding Eligibility] - 10 minutes

- How did you determine what health benefits you could get when you recently completed the application?
  > Whenever I applied, I applied for hearing and my sholder, (helicopter mechanic(
- What resources did you use and how to understand what you might qualify for?
  > Talking to people in my unit, they told me what to look for and what I would need to start the process
  > 
- Did you want to only get care for one specific health concern, or were you interested in enrolling in full health care coverage?
  > My goal was to make sure I was covered service related anything beyond that was a bonus for myself
- Looking back now after you have been using health care benefits, is there anything you wish you would have known during the application?
  > No, I can't really think of anything
  > It has been a learning process what the VA can and can't do
  > I don't think there was anything I wish I knew when I applied
  > Yeah, uh benefit wise community care what they can cover what they can't
  > More or less the health insurance benefits
  > When I applied I didn't realie they could help me with glasses, I wasn't looking for, but it was a benefit I was able to get
  > Two years ago, had strokes, they covered all the testing and diagnosis since then
  > And community care and things like that
  > It was whenever I first met, my Primary
  > Gave me a sheet of what my benefits cover, and that was on there
  > They have been able to, my primary team, if I run into something they are like oh wait you can do this. They have been good with that.

### Things to watch for:
- [How does the Veteran descirbe the process of figuring out what they are eligble for - are they frustrated, do they find it easy, do they just expect the VA to have the data and figure it out for them?]
- [Is there a mix or preference for wanting to be told what they get or search it out on their own?]
- [Is there any confusion about their benefits within the health care benefits they recieve?]



## Third Topic: [Understanding how to use benefits] - 10 minutes
- Explain to me in your own words what you get with your VA health care benefits?
  > What I have utilized so far, is community care go outside a VA clinic or doctor and be seen
  > Eyeglass, eye exams done, new glasses as I need them
  > The past couple of years many diffent places for blood draws
  > Don't have any complaints with what I have gone through
- What help or resources did you rely on to help you figure this all out?
  > Um one of my main friends in my unit he is the one that got me started, gave me the list, get your health records in line, get your DD214 set up
  > Told me the website to go onto and basically what link to hit to get started
  > Then I followed the prompts on the forms
  > I did it at my house, no one guiding me through it, read and moved on
  
- Can you tell me more about what Priority Group you are in for your health care benefits now?
> Honestly, I am not sure.

[If aware of Priority Groups]
- Can you please describe how this was communicated to you and how you understood the impact to you and your benefits?
- Before you completed enrollment, how were you aware of Priority Groups or copays as part of the health care benefits package?
- [if yes] Can you tell me more about what you knew before you applied and how you learned that information?
- Since you have been using your benefits, what have you learned about Priority Groups and the impact it has on you and health care benefits that you wish you knew during the application?

[If NOT aware of Priority Groups, ask question and skip to fourth topic]
- What do you think Priority Groups are? There is no right or wrong answer here, just explain your understanding of what you think it could be and how that is important to health care benefits. 
> I wouldn't have an idea, the only thing I can think of is kind of like a triage. Who has the most issues vs the least amount.
> I couldn't tell you... not too sure. 

### Things to watch for:
- [How do Veterans describe their awareness of benefits? Confident, unsure, frustrated?]
- [Do Veterans consistently rely on word of mouth or a variety of in person resources to understand their health care benefits?]
- [Do Veterans' confidently know their Priority Group and what that means to them and their benefits?]
- [What is the current process and experience around Priority Groups?]
- [What are the knowledge gaps around Priority Groups and health care costs?]
- [What things would Veterans like to see or like to change in regards to Priority Groups?]




## Fourth Topic: [Ideal State] - 10 minutes
- Could you describe how - in a perfect world - you would **want** the health care application process to go for you in regards to learning about benefit options and what you qualify for?
> I know reading a lot of the tryign to learn more about it - some of it is - kind of over my head with the descriptions and stuff like that
> Simplified terms would be better
> Other than that, once I started to get into it and learn about it
> Had to get to that point of learning the terminology
- How would you want to learn about how to use your benefits that you are eligible for?
> I think on the website, log in to your account, have a list of everything you are eligible for.
> Without that piece of paper my primary gave me, I wouldn't know about my glasses per se
> I wish there was a section on the dashboard that would say all beneftis eligible for, put in your home address and shows you the closes locations to receive those.
> One thing is I have a medical ID braclet, my primary didn't know they could ask for it through prosthetics. I happened to stumble along that because my brother was looking for one for himself.
> When I was doing reasearch for my brother I found it
> Centralized, this is what you can, even generalized
> The get into what is covered
- [Wants a list and locator in dashboard to help use health benefts]
- What tools, communication, people could make this the best process possible in your mind?
> I use the app on my phone a lot, especially for secure messaging,
> A tab on there that says personalized benefits
> Or if I go on vA.gov a tab there with personalized benefits, and the phone numbers I could call to get more information, or a link to the addresss

- How would you like to discover what options you have to get the level of care that is right for you?
> Really I think it boils down to the personalized benefit list.
> When I had my strokes, went to the ER, then they transfered me, you know I didn't know that was something that was able to be done.
> More of a consice list this is what is offered to you as a Veteran or you personally.
- What information would be important to you so you feel confident when having to choose between health care benefit options?
> I utilize a lot of the community care, being able to find in-network community care provider that I can look at before my referral goes over to community care.
> I found this doctor for you, I would have some way to do research (before hand)
> 

### Things to watch for:
- [Are there any terminology used that stand out as the Veteran is describing their ideal process?]
- [What steps do they call out?]
- [What steps do they leave out?]
- [What do they mention or call out as information that is helpful in making decisions about health care benefit choices?]




## Fifth Topic: [Current paper instructions] - 10 minutes
- Can you explain to me in your own words, what these options mean and how they are different?
  > Give me a second, slow reader (quiet)
  > So it is talking about full medical.... (reading some more) and what do you want me to say about it, I'm sorry?
  > I am not sure what you mean by that, different from what I have or?
  > I got you.. I wasn't exactly sure
  > Um, I don't know. It looks like... I mean it just looks like it says full medical benefits and the other one you only get benefits if you have particular qualifications.
  > But, the way this is worded enrollment vs registration, to me it looked like the same thing, I didn't realize it was two diffent things.
  > This is enrollment and this is what you need to register, that is the way it read to me.
- Which one would you select and can you explain to me your thinking behind that?
 > Um, if I had to choose, one or the other without seeing this ever before. Not realizing it was two different types, cuz, one you are trying to enroll and the other you are registering for something
> To me it doesn't seem like it is two different coverages. 
> Enrollment and registration, to me enrollment you are enrolling for something and then you register for it.
> It looks the same, I didn't realize it was two different one, which is why I was really confused when you asked.

- Is there anything about these instructions that you find confusing or need more explanation before you could answer?

  > I would go for registration, because that is what I think I would qualify more than the full medical.
  > Still confused how it is two different things.
  > With just this little form, could not be confident in it (my decision)
  > It shows eligibility criteria specified at the CFR, I wouldn't know where to go find that unless search it.
  > It should have more, explaining that you have enrollment, then a little blurb 17.36 and then explain what the registraiton is with the 17.37.


- Now that you have seen an example of choosing benefit options, would you change anything about your ideal state we just talked about right before this?



### Things to watch for:
- [What are the scenarios or examples given to why registration would be the preferred choice?]
- [Is selecting both options a common answer?]
- [What words and terms to participants use when they are explaining the differences?]
- [Is there often confusion to what to choose and what that means to them and their health care benefits?]



## Post-Task Interview - 5 minutes

- Is there anything else you would like to add about what we talked about today?
  > No I can't think of anything
  > I know not everyone has the same benefits you dashboard should show
  > This is what you qualified for under your percentage
  > What you just showed my, have it spell it out a little better. Registration and enrollment, those are pretty much the same word so I wouldn't know what the differnece is. 
- Any questions for me? 
