# Conversation Guide for "registration only" mental model study [Health Enrollment Team, 10-10EZ, August 2023][Cohort 2 - Currently Enrolled]

*Start recording.*

- **I have started recording**. I'd like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record my screen and the audio as we talk today? 


## Warm-up Questions  - 5 minutes

Let’s start with a few warm-up questions.

- Are you currently enrolled and using health care benefits from the VA?
> Yes
- How often do you visit a VA facility?
> About 2 months ago
- How often do you visit VA.gov?

## First Topic: [Current Application Process] - 10 minutes

- Can you explain to me in your own words the process you took when you applied for benefits?
> Enrolled in healthcare because had cancer, doctors still want to check up on you when you're in remission. It was likely a nurse advocate who enrolled me. Exited military in 2012, had complications from cancer and that's why I'm still being seen by the VA. As far as compensation goes, I had to fight for that. They weren't connecting my cancer with the heart disease I have that came from chemo/radiation. Disabled Veterans Association helped with compensation.
- You mentioned a liason helped you enroll. Was there a paper form involved?
> I'm sure they asked me questions, but I don't really remember filling out paperwork. There was a desk at the Long Beach VA- I did go there to get my ID card.
- [If they don't specify] Did you complete this online, in-person or via paper application by yourself?
- Was there any part of that process that was frustrating or difficult for you?
> Had to go up to Seattle, where I was stationed, answer a bunch of quality-of-life questions. At the time I was feeling good, so I answered accordingly. Eventually they wanted to lower my compensation to below what even covers my heart medication that I have to be on for life. I had to appeal that in writing. They eventually bumped it up to just barely covering medication. That was unpleasant. They bumped up the percentage of my disability after the appeal. The DAV helped me get up to 100% disability.
- What is your recollection about the amount of information you had to provide?
- When it comes to registering and health care at the VA, what does that mean to you?
> Just filing an application, I assume it would mean getting checked up after filing an application. Having your records from the military. Having to get print outs from my original station in Seattle, having them transferred, brought them in manually to Long Beach.


### Things to watch for:
- [What terminology does the Veteran use as they talk about their experience (enroll, register, priority groups, etc)?]
- [How does the Veteran portray the overall process - easy, difficult, uneventful?]
- [What pain points or areas of confusion are revealed?]
- [What things does a Veteran talk about in regards to the term registration? VA Facilities?]


## Second Topic: [Choosing Benefits/Understanding Eligibility] - 10 minutes

- How did you determine what health benefits you could get when you recently completed the application?
> I spent so much time in the hospital, I would just walk to the department I needed to. To understand my benefits, I'd go to the registration desk, the desk where they give you the ID card. I would try to find out "Who handles this?" because I had no idea about Patient Advocates. I'd ask the doctor, okay, how much is this gonna be? I'm not sure how they know. They seem to know if you're 100%, everything's covered. I remember asking, what am I gonna do? I'm out of a job, I don't have anything. And the doctors would say, don't worry, you're covered, it's service-connected. That greatly put my mind at ease.
- What resources did you use and how to understand what you might qualify for?
> Leaned heavily on doctors and in-person help. Of course, online is always helpful. I've made more than my fair share of phone calls to get information on benefits. I was in driving distance from the hospital so if I ever had a question, I went there. You know, being on the phone on hold for an hour or more, sometimes it makes more sense to go in-person and get some answers.
- Did you want to only get care for one specific health concern, or were you interested in enrolling in full health care coverage?
> Just wanted care for my specific concerns. I was going back to school and everything, but health issues kept rising. Even today, to have a full time job where I can't leave if I forget my medication, it made it impossible. At the time, I was looking to get better and be healthy and have my own private healthcare. People usually say it's better to have private healthcare. For instance, I have to have emergency surgery. They took me to CEDAR Sinai. I was out of there amazingly quick, I got great care. The second time I had a procedure, it wasn't an emergency, so they had it with VA and a university hospital partnership. Feels like a teaching hospital. There were all kinds of complications with that surgery. I was stuck in the hospital for a greater period of time after the surgery. They were doing all kinds of things that weren't making me feel good—eating, the aftercare seemed less. Less so. Don't know how else to describe it. It was a little traumatic to say the least.
- Looking back now after you have been using health care benefits, is there anything you wish you would have known during the application?
> Who to talk to. The DAV, the Patient Advocates. Just knowing that there's someone there who can guide you through the application process, the appeals process. You get these papers in the mail that say your claim has been denied, and you're like okay...what do I do now? I don't know what to do. You have to be a detective and go to the hospital and ask questions. At first, you don't know what questions to ask, like why did they deny this?
  

### Things to watch for:
- [How does the Veteran descirbe the process of figuring out what they are eligble for - are they frustrated, do they find it easy, do they just expect the VA to have the data and figure it out for them?]
- [Is there a mix or preference for wanting to be told what they get or search it out on their own?]
- [Is there any confusion about their benefits within the health care benefits they recieve?]



## Third Topic: [Understanding how to use benefits] - 10 minutes
- Explain to me in your own words what you get with your VA health care benefits?
> Just peace of mind. If something goes really wrong with my health, I'm not going to go bankrupt or lose my house. It's a big weight off my shoulder, cause I know how expensive healthcare is in this country. It's nice to have somebody to go to if my health declines.
- What help or resources did you rely on to help you figure this all out?
> The only things I did online was finding forms, like the appeal forms. Going to the hospital to find out who I can talk to. They do have the service organizations in the hospital, so it's not like they're trying to hide them online.
- Can you tell me more about what Priority Group you are in for your health care benefits now?
> I believe I'm in the highest priority because it was service-connected. It happened overseas in Iraq in a war zone, so I believe it's the highest priority.

[If aware of Priority Groups]
- Can you please describe how this was communicated to you and how you understood the impact to you and your benefits?
> I believe they sent me a letter. But it's not like they said, "you have unlimited health benefits" even though that's true. They didn't say, oh, your meds are free. They just said "you have access to VA healthcare."
- Before you completed enrollment, how were you aware of Priority Groups or copays as part of the health care benefits package?
> I wasn't aware until they dropped my rating down, after they reevaluated me. And after they dropped it, I was like, oh no, what do I do? I was feeling good at the time, but I still needed my medication. I wasn't aware of what they doctor was trying to do at the time. It felt like he was kind of, you know, almost tricking me. "You're okay, you're fine now. You don't need anymore help." I don't know if that was just the doctor, or how that normally operates.
- [if yes] Can you tell me more about what you knew before you applied and how you learned that information?
- Since you have been using your benefits, what have you learned about Priority Groups and the impact it has on you and health care benefits that you wish you knew during the application?
> No, that is difficult because you don't want people to game the system. But at the same time, you don't want them to cheat themselves out of any benefits they've earned. I'd want the doctor to rely less on the patient interview and rely more on test results. What the possible symptoms are, say, "hey, if you have these symptoms, tell us about them." When I'm in an interview, I'm trying to be in the present moment. I'm not thinking back to specific instances. I was hospitalized once for dehydration, and I thought I should be drinking more water, but I didn't think it could be from the heart issues.

[If NOT aware of Priority Groups, ask question and skip to fourth topic]
- What do you think Priority Groups are? There is no right or wrong answer here, just explain your understanding of what you think it could be and how that is important to health care benefits. 


### Things to watch for:
- [How do Veterans describe their awareness of benefits? Confident, unsure, frustrated?]
- [Do Veterans consistently rely on word of mouth or a variety of in person resources to understand their health care benefits?]
- [Do Veterans' confidently know their Priority Group and what that means to them and their benefits?]
- [What is the current process and experience around Priority Groups?]
- [What are the knowledge gaps around Priority Groups and health care costs?]
- [What things would Veterans like to see or like to change in regards to Priority Groups?]




## Fourth Topic: [Ideal State] - 10 minutes
- Could you describe how - in a perfect world - you would **want** the health care application process to go for you in regards to learning about benefit options and what you qualify for?
> Definitely online, especially now that I live farther away from my closest VA facility. Maybe a teleconference, or a Zoom call like we're doing. Not just with the doctor but also with the Patient Advocate. I'm trying to think what else.
- How would you want to learn about how to use your benefits that you are eligible for?
- What tools, communication, people could make this the best process possible in your mind?
> I can't think of anything else, other than it being outside VA. Now I live an hour drive, mabye more than an hour drive away. Moving it online. And do more evaluation than just a blood test. It seemed like it was mainly due to the interview that that was my rating.
- How would you like to discover what options you have to get the level of care that is right for you?
> They could record a video explaining what the process is, they could have the doctor record a video too. That would be helpful for the interview.
- What information would be important to you so you feel confident when having to choose between health care benefit options?
> Just being upfront about it. Private insurance sometimes spends more, but it also costs more.


### Things to watch for:
- [Are there any terminology used that stand out as the Veteran is describing their ideal process?]
- [What steps do they call out?]
- [What steps do they leave out?]
- [What do they mention or call out as information that is helpful in making decisions about health care benefit choices?]




## Fifth Topic: [Current paper instructions] - 10 minutes
- For this next topic, I am going to share my screen and show you an example of instructions that appear on the health care benefits application.
- Can you explain to me in your own words, what these options mean and how they are different?
> This looks familiar to the paperwork I've seen. I recommed they take out the CFRs. Not completely take them out in case people want to look them up online, see what the things are. But when you read through this with those CFRs there, it gets kind of muddled. Another thing I've never liked about these things it putting it all at the top then giving these sections. Feel like it'd be better if it said, "in this section, do this." I know that's gotten me in the past, I've filled out a section wrong because I had to look up to see the instructions. Bullet points are good though. Bullet points are always good.
- Which one would you select and can you explain to me your thinking behind that?
> I do see "enrollment not required" to enroll for benefits. I'm not sure that makes it easier, you still have to be put in the system so the different departments can talk to each other. So that's a little confusing to me–that enrollment's not required.
- Is there anything about these instructions that you find confusing or need more explanation before you could answer?
> It would be nice if you didn't know something, there was an option that says "call this number." It'd be a lot nicer than looking up whatever 17.37 is


- [Link to Mural board for example](https://app.mural.co/t/departmentofveteransaffairs9999/m/departmentofveteransaffairs9999/1690928150976/0ce17c5b63ed3a2fd75736ac481d2d6e31fd927b?sender=uadf1ed7fe7c76f0914967329)

- Now that you have seen an example of choosing benefit options, would you change anything about your ideal state we just talked about right before this?
> No, I still feel there's a lot of people who don't even have the patience to read through all this. Some people just do better with a visual video with somebody talking to them, somebody telling them instead of reading it for themselves. I myself have mild dyslexia, sometimes confuse numbers reading them backwards or putting them out of place. So I still feel some video or even audio could help somebody with even greater reading disability or comprehension disability.
  

### Things to watch for:
- [What are the scenarios or examples given to why registration would be the preferred choice?]
- [Is selecting both options a common answer?]
- [What words and terms to participants use when they are explaining the differences?]
- [Is there often confusion to what to choose and what that means to them and their health care benefits?]



## Post-Task Interview - 5 minutes

- Is there anything else you would like to add about what we talked about today?
- Any questions for me? 
