# Conversation Guide for "registration only" mental model study [Health Enrollment Team, 10-10EZ, August 2023][Cohort 2 - Currently Enrolled]

*Start recording.*

- **I have started recording**. I'd like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record my screen and the audio as we talk today? 
> yes I'm comfortable

## Warm-up Questions  - 5 minutes

Let’s start with a few warm-up questions.

- Are you currently enrolled and using health care benefits from the VA?
  > Yes
- How often do you visit a VA facility?
  > probably monthly
- How often do you visit VA.gov?
  > I actually, what is it called, I actually use the app. The VA app.
  > Quite often, probably 10x a month or something. (use the app)

## First Topic: [Current Application Process] - 10 minutes

- Can you explain to me in your own words the process you took when you applied for benefits?
  > Let me think it was so long ago
  > Back then it was just a paper application and we had to send it in
  > It was so long ago
  > I completed it on my own
- [If they don't specify] Did you complete this online, in-person or via paper application by yourself?
- Was there any part of that process that was frustrating or difficult for you?
  > Hmmm... no not really
  > I think it was mainly it was just paper at the time and now we are so technical
  > That was, 2012
  > It was a long time ago
  > I think they make it easier now, a few clicks
- What is your recollection about the amount of information you had to provide?
  > You just had to put your name, social security, service, branch, when you got out, and if you have gotten compensation or whatever
  > If I am not mistaken that was generally the main questions
- When it comes to registering and health care at the VA, what does that mean to you?
> What do you mean?
> I am not understanding the question, just to register?
> I mean it is basically what you have to do if you are a civilian too, but since we have been through the service and had tricare it should have already been there. It should have been automatic.


### Things to watch for:
- [What terminology does the Veteran use as they talk about their experience (enroll, register, priority groups, etc)?]
- [How does the Veteran portray the overall process - easy, difficult, uneventful?]
- [What pain points or areas of confusion are revealed?]
- [What things does a Veteran talk about in regards to the term registration? VA Facilities?]


## Second Topic: [Choosing Benefits/Understanding Eligibility] - 10 minutes

- How did you determine what health benefits you could get when you recently completed the application?
  > Um, it actually told us what we could, because you have the tiers.
  > Now I am actually at the top tier because I am 100%, at first I was only at 30%
- What resources did you use and how to understand what you might qualify for?
  > It actually if I am trying to think back -- it might have been on paper but then it might have been online
  > I think at first I was paying a copay and now I am not paying a copay
  - Mix of paper and online resources used

- Did you want to only get care for one specific health concern, or were you interested in enrolling in full health care coverage?
> Well, I had full health care coverage. But I know with a certain tier you can get certain things. Now I get dental.
>  Get dental, mental health and just overall health.

- Looking back now after you have been using health care benefits, is there anything you wish you would have known during the application?

### Things to watch for:
- [How does the Veteran descirbe the process of figuring out what they are eligble for - are they frustrated, do they find it easy, do they just expect the VA to have the data and figure it out for them?]
- [Is there a mix or preference for wanting to be told what they get or search it out on their own?]
- [Is there any confusion about their benefits within the health care benefits they recieve?]



## Third Topic: [Understanding how to use benefits] - 10 minutes
- Explain to me in your own words what you get with your VA health care benefits?
- What help or resources did you rely on to help you figure this all out?
  > Probably went to the app, not the VA app it wasn't here then, the VA benefits. 
- Can you tell me more about what Priority Group you are in for your health care benefits now?
  > Yeah

[If aware of Priority Groups]
- Can you please describe how this was communicated to you and how you understood the impact to you and your benefits?
  > Cuz it wasn't explained, you just have to find the information on your own.
  > It was not communicated to me.
  > So I communicate to everyone else now, it is something you have to learn.
  > Online , yes
- Before you completed enrollment, how were you aware of Priority Groups or copays as part of the health care benefits package?
  > Not at first, I had someone who was already receving benefits so he was letting me know some things. The rest of it I had to find out.
- [if yes] Can you tell me more about what you knew before you applied and how you learned that information?
  > Like the different facilities first of all. He was going all the way to Alabama, but we are in Georgia
  > He taught be that and then about travel pay and all that.
- Since you have been using your benefits, what have you learned about Priority Groups and the impact it has on you and health care benefits that you wish you knew during the application?
  > With the different stuff I can get now, it wouldn't have affected any because I wasn't at the Priority group then that I am now.

[If NOT aware of Priority Groups, ask question and skip to fourth topic]
- What do you think Priority Groups are? There is no right or wrong answer here, just explain your understanding of what you think it could be and how that is important to health care benefits. 


### Things to watch for:
- [How do Veterans describe their awareness of benefits? Confident, unsure, frustrated?]
- [Do Veterans consistently rely on word of mouth or a variety of in person resources to understand their health care benefits?]
- [Do Veterans' confidently know their Priority Group and what that means to them and their benefits?]
- [What is the current process and experience around Priority Groups?]
- [What are the knowledge gaps around Priority Groups and health care costs?]
- [What things would Veterans like to see or like to change in regards to Priority Groups?]




## Fourth Topic: [Ideal State] - 10 minutes
- Could you describe how - in a perfect world - you would **want** the health care application process to go for you in regards to learning about benefit options and what you qualify for?
> Well if it was, for the next generation, if it was just plain if you have this percentage or this is what you get right here.
> I know someone else who is getting health care but didn't know about travel.
> They have been going back and forth to the doctor for years and was not getting travel pay.
> I guess if you don' tknow you don't know, then you don't have to learn it the hard way.
- How would you want to learn about how to use your benefits that you are eligible for?
  > Well, for someone that doensn't know, if it was not just on the internet, but yeah, bascially.
  > If it was just plain - this is what you get right here
  > Something you don't have to go looking for, like under the VA app
  > Everything is going to start being on the VA app, simple to find certain things
- What tools, communication, people could make this the best process possible in your mind?
  > (mentioned the app)
  > I guess, if there was more education on it.
  > Like, before you get out, if they educate you on how to go from military life to civilian life and all the asks of it
  > For the transition, this is what you need to do, this is how it looks on the outside
  > When you get out, you have to find out stuff. There is nobody telling you anything, you have to search for it yourself.
- How would you like to discover what options you have to get the level of care that is right for you?
  > Trying to think about that one, the care that we get, options
  > I mean we have a lot of options, it just takes a while for certain doctors or specific groups to get involved or get an appointment with
  > I have heard, like with mental health and stuff, it has taken someone over 2 years to get in for mental health. Just to talk to somebody.
- What information would be important to you so you feel confident when having to choose between health care benefit options?
  > I guess if they were to have specifics
  > I know when I do go to make an appointment, certain things are not there. You have to go through your primary doctor, I guess because of a specialty or something.
  > With certain medicine and certain devices, you can't go through the app to order them. You have to go through your primary, or whoever sees the message.
  > They will order something and then you have to wait
  > If we could just go to the app and say all the medicine or devices you have, and it is just right there to order more.

### Things to watch for:
- [Are there any terminology used that stand out as the Veteran is describing their ideal process?]
- [What steps do they call out?]
- [What steps do they leave out?]
- [What do they mention or call out as information that is helpful in making decisions about health care benefit choices?]




## Fifth Topic: [Current paper instructions] - 10 minutes
- Can you explain to me in your own words, what these options mean and how they are different?
  > What these, the enrollment and registration?
  > (quietly reading) Okay, registration is just filling something out to get registered for it
  > But to actually enroll in it, I need to meet these certain things right here to get enrolled in it
- Which one would you select and can you explain to me your thinking behind that?
  > Hmmm...If I was doing this for the first time, I would actually... hmm probably just do....cause I know when I did it, I did both of them
  > Now when I see this enrollment not required, I would just do registered
  > I see enrollment not required, I would just register for it
- Is there anything about these instructions that you find confusing or need more explanation before you could answer?
  > Well, see as I said before, not reading these in teh parentesis. That make it confusing, that is probably why I did both of them.
  > But now reading, the enrollment not required, would just do the registration part
- Now that you have seen an example of choosing benefit options, would you change anything about your ideal state we just talked about right before this?
  > no

### Things to watch for:
- [What are the scenarios or examples given to why registration would be the preferred choice?]
- [Is selecting both options a common answer?]
- [What words and terms to participants use when they are explaining the differences?]
- [Is there often confusion to what to choose and what that means to them and their health care benefits?]



## Post-Task Interview - 5 minutes

- Is there anything else you would like to add about what we talked about today?
  > No ma'am 
- Any questions for me?
  > No ma'am, yes I do
  > Are you over, do you know the people that are over the app?
  > But it is about health care, it is about travel pay and everything.
  > You actually have to look for it, it is not just right there.
  > You have to go through certain steps to find it
  > To make that a little easier
