# Conversation Guide for "registration only" mental model study [Health Enrollment Team, 10-10EZ, August 2023][Cohort 2 - Currently Enrolled]

*Start recording.*

- **I have started recording**. I'd like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record my screen and the audio as we talk today? 

>Yes

## Warm-up Questions  - 5 minutes

Let’s start with a few warm-up questions.

- Are you currently enrolled and using health care benefits from the VA? 
> About 2 months ago.

- How often do you visit a VA facility?
> A month ago.

- How often do you visit VA.gov?
> 

## First Topic: [Current Application Process] - 10 minutes

- Can you explain to me in your own words the process you took when you applied for benefits?
- [If they don't specify] Did you complete this online, in-person or via paper application by yourself?
> Online, used E-benefits
- Was there any part of that process that was frustrating or difficult for you?
> Not sure if she did it correctly, PACT Act related.
> Through a PACT Act, she was trying to get additional benefits.
- What is your recollection about the amount of information you had to provide?
> Did not have to provide anything. I have already applied for. I am not sure if this was the correct steps.
- When it comes to registering and health care at the VA, what does that mean to you?
> Online, go through E-benefits. Appointments, medication, etc. Start with E-benefits then follow the prompt on the screen.


### Things to watch for:
- [What terminology does the Veteran use as they talk about their experience (enroll, register, priority groups, etc)?]
- [How does the Veteran portray the overall process - easy, difficult, uneventful?]
- [What pain points or areas of confusion are revealed?]
- [What things does a Veteran talk about in regards to the term registration? VA Facilities?]


## Second Topic: [Choosing Benefits/Understanding Eligibility] - 10 minutes

- How did you determine what health benefits you could get when you recently completed the application?
> Start talking with Friends then you can find the information yourself. 
- What resources did you use and how to understand what you might qualify for?
> Word of mouth then research yourself. Different groups on social media.
- Did you want to only get care for one specific health concern, or were you interested in enrolling in full health care coverage?
> Full healthcare coverage and anything that happened to be in the military.
- Looking back now after you have been using health care benefits, is there anything you wish you would have known during the application?
> Not Really, the application process is self-explanatory
> If first time, it would be helpful to note what information is needed to complete the application.
  

### Things to watch for:
- [How does the Veteran descirbe the process of figuring out what they are eligble for - are they frustrated, do they find it easy, do they just expect the VA to have the data and figure it out for them?]
- [Is there a mix or preference for wanting to be told what they get or search it out on their own?]
- [Is there any confusion about their benefits within the health care benefits they recieve?]



## Third Topic: [Understanding how to use benefits] - 10 minutes
- Explain to me in your own words what you get with your VA health care benefits?
> Can go to any facility for any problem you need and they'll cover it.
> Medicine that you need, you can re-order online.
- What help or resources did you rely on to help you figure this all out?
> As I went, just did more research as I went. It was pretty much laid out.
- Can you tell me more about what Priority Group you are in for your health care benefits now?
> have not heard of Priority Group.

[If aware of Priority Groups]
- Can you please describe how this was communicated to you and how you understood the impact to you and your benefits?
> Something that needs urgent attention, have not heard of the term.
- Before you completed enrollment, how were you aware of Priority Groups or copays as part of the health care benefits package?
- [if yes] Can you tell me more about what you knew before you applied and how you learned that information?
- Since you have been using your benefits, what have you learned about Priority Groups and the impact it has on you and health care benefits that you wish you knew during the application?

[If NOT aware of Priority Groups, ask question and skip to fourth topic]
- What do you think Priority Groups are? There is no right or wrong answer here, just explain your understanding of what you think it could be and how that is important to health care benefits. 


### Things to watch for:
- [How do Veterans describe their awareness of benefits? Confident, unsure, frustrated?]
- [Do Veterans consistently rely on word of mouth or a variety of in person resources to understand their health care benefits?]
- [Do Veterans' confidently know their Priority Group and what that means to them and their benefits?]
- [What is the current process and experience around Priority Groups?]
- [What are the knowledge gaps around Priority Groups and health care costs?]
- [What things would Veterans like to see or like to change in regards to Priority Groups?]




## Fourth Topic: [Ideal State] - 10 minutes
- Could you describe how - in a perfect world - you would **want** the health care application process to go for you in regards to learning about benefit options and what you qualify for?
> They send out emails to organizations you've joined, with benefits or recommendations. Email with call-to-action to apply for relevant benefits. 
- How would you want to learn about how to use the benefits that you are eligible for?
> The information is there.
- What tools, communication, people could make this the best process possible in your mind?
> For older people, give them a number with a person instead of directing them to a recording.
- How would you like to discover what options you have to get the level of care that is right for you?
- What information would be important to you so you feel confident when having to choose between health care benefit options?
> Nothing can be done easy. The information is there if you read it. 


### Things to watch for:
- [Are there any terminology used that stand out as the Veteran is describing their ideal process?]
- [What steps do they call out?]
- [What steps do they leave out?]
- [What do they mention or call out as information that is helpful in making decisions about health care benefit choices?]




## Fifth Topic: [Current paper instructions] - 10 minutes
- For this next topic, I am going to share my screen and show you an example of instructions that appear on the health care benefits application.
- Can you explain to me in your own words, what these options mean and how they are different?
> Very self-explanatory  
- Which one would you select and can you explain to me your thinking behind that?
> First she would have to enroll first and then get registered. She misunderstood that it is too different options.
- Is there anything about these instructions that you find confusing or need more explanation before you could answer?
> Get stuck on the CFR information and she would Google it.


- [Link to Mural board for example](https://app.mural.co/t/departmentofveteransaffairs9999/m/departmentofveteransaffairs9999/1690928150976/0ce17c5b63ed3a2fd75736ac481d2d6e31fd927b?sender=uadf1ed7fe7c76f0914967329)

- Now that you have seen an example of choosing benefit options, would you change anything about your ideal state we just talked about right before this?
> She want to talk to a person to have a better understanding of what information was provided.   

### Things to watch for:
- [What are the scenarios or examples given to why registration would be the preferred choice?]
- [Is selecting both options a common answer?]
- [What words and terms to participants use when they are explaining the differences?]
- [Is there often confusion to what to choose and what that means to them and their health care benefits?]



## Post-Task Interview - 5 minutes

- Is there anything else you would like to add about what we talked about today?
> The information is there, you just have to take the time to read it.
> Note: She conflates general VA benefits and disability claims as health care benefits.
- Any questions for me? 
