# Conversation Guide for "registration only" mental model study [Health Enrollment Team, 10-10EZ, August 2023][Cohort 2 - Currently Enrolled]
## P6

---



*Start recording.*

- **I have started recording**. I'd like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record my screen and the audio as we talk today? 

> Yes that's fine, wish I would have done my hair.

> Yes I am confortable with the recording of audio and video. 

## Warm-up Questions  - 5 minutes

Let’s start with a few warm-up questions.

- Are you currently enrolled and using health care benefits from the VA?
  > yes
- How often do you visit a VA facility?
  > um, maybe a couple times a year
- How often do you visit VA.gov?
  > Um, maybe maybe once a month.


## First Topic: [Current Application Process] - 10 minutes

- Can you explain to me in your own words the process you took when you applied for benefits?
  > It was a, terrible process. painful
  > It took.... almost 18 months. Um, so, I at the time i went to a Veterans' service organzation.
  > I belive it was the Texas Veterans, Texas Vet
  > They helped me fill out the paperwork, and submit everything.
  > But first, before readign the paperwork. Had to submit a request for my medical records. That took nearly a year
  > Then Texas Vet we submitted everything. the first floor of the basement of the ... hospital. Sat there for an hour or two read and submit the paperwork then it was nearly 18 months after that I was able to recieve benefits.
  > There was nothing in there, hey this is how everything works
  > Went back, I have no idea how this VA health system works. Can someone help me?
  > We need your award letter. You need to go this every
  > I thought that is what I did with Texas Vet. No that is something else. Now that you have an award letter you need to be processed in for health care.
  > Now you need an ID card and get that printed, and that will make you eligible for health care. Call this number to get your primary physician setup.
  > That was the process almost 2 and half years.
  > My brother was in the Navy, he submitted for benefits nearly a year ago now and still has not recieved any information.
  
- was not clear to him that the disability process that was long did not include health care, thougth that was part of it
 
  
- [If they don't specify] Did you complete this online, in-person or via paper application by yourself?
- Was there any part of that process that was frustrating or difficult for you?

> you know, it's .. once I got my once I called that number to get by PCP and get saletite clinic that is where I have been since enrolled
> Then it was, I don't know, 4-5 months just to schedule an appointment with my PCP. It was anything I needed care right now, I could have gone to the ER, just a well clinic get to know me get to know you... shot records anything civilian economy that has not been updated since the last medical record in marine corps.

- Availability for getting first appointment is not very good, months out

- What is your recollection about the amount of information you had to provide?

> For the standard VA health care, to get enrolled in that all they wanted was my VA award letter. And a valid gov't issued ID card. Took my picture, a couple minutes later had my card printed out and that was it.
> As far as that goes, wasn't much. Them wanting my award letter (which took 2 and half years)
> If I would have gone in, then how would I been able to enroll without an award letter.
> If disability is separate, why did they need my award letter?

  
- When it comes to registering and health care at the VA, what does that mean to you?
> That means, time, and you know hurry up and wait.
> Frustration
> Slow process
> Bureacracy 


### Things to watch for:
- [What terminology does the Veteran use as they talk about their experience (enroll, register, priority groups, etc)?]
- [How does the Veteran portray the overall process - easy, difficult, uneventful?]
- [What pain points or areas of confusion are revealed?]
- [What things does a Veteran talk about in regards to the term registration? VA Facilities?]


## Second Topic: [Choosing Benefits/Understanding Eligibility] - 10 minutes

- How did you determine what health benefits you could get when you recently completed the application?
  > I didn't know
  > I didn't know what I was eligible for, from the paperwork I ended up recieveing
  > Had a couple of conversations with friends who are Veterans and patient advocates
  > Was told,
  > Going back to paperwork, they wanted my private health insurance
  > They will see me for anything. the Line items that are service connected they will not bill.
  > The things are not service connected , they bill my Blue Cross Blue Shield
  > Took me a while to get it
  > Once I understood that, I became more comfortable with the entire health care VA paper work bureaucracy
- What resources did you use and how to understand what you might qualify for?
  > Not really, at the time when I looked at the VA website. There was 3 different websites to go to. Don't think VA.gov was up at that time
  > Now everything is in a single location so that is much more helpful
  
- Did you want to only get care for one specific health concern, or were you interested in enrolling in full health care coverage?
  > When I was enrolling it was primarily just for a single itme
  > How ever many months later it was, I will just shift almost everything over to the VA
  > My VA PCP doensn't have an immediate avail, but not so serious for urgent care. Keep a civilian PCPC
  > Most health care for me, shifted over to the VA
- Looking back now after you have been using health care benefits, is there anything you wish you would have known during the application?
  > Yeah,
  > Just understanding that the VA will see you for anything, regardless what your disability percentage is or service connected and what no
  > That would have been
  > That day I picked up my ID card and folder of stuff, we will see you for anything page 1 that would have been great
  

### Things to watch for:
- [How does the Veteran descirbe the process of figuring out what they are eligble for - are they frustrated, do they find it easy, do they just expect the VA to have the data and figure it out for them?]
- [Is there a mix or preference for wanting to be told what they get or search it out on their own?]
- [Is there any confusion about their benefits within the health care benefits they recieve?]



## Third Topic: [Understanding how to use benefits] - 10 minutes
- Explain to me in your own words what you get with your VA health care benefits?
> What I get with my health care benefits is I get great care. As with any, almost any, organization sometimes there are frustrations.
> I have had several surgeries with them, been very happy very pleased with the surgeries.
> I get , don't have them in right now, but I have hearing aids. Great care with my hearing aids. Being able to hear for the most part.
> One of the biggest things I dislike is turnover. Esp with the PCP
> Trying to start that relationship all over again, that sucked with my PCP left and I got assigned to another one
> That happens in the civilian sector as well
> Been taking advantage of the patient portal, patient advocate. Quick responses
> previously used the pharmacy app, no longer using the VA pharmacy app, goes into the VA.. which one is it. Just the regular VA app you sign into that and go to health and request prescription refills there.
> I like that because I have one app instead of multiple apps to get medication.
- What help or resources did you rely on to help you figure this all out
  > Mostly friends
  > There was at times no information or limited information
  > Couldn't find information, combination of everything. Mostly friends. 
- Can you tell me more about what Priority Group you are in for your health care benefits now?
> I am in almost the lowest, don't remember the nubmer. I think there is the 70-90, then 50-60 I am in one of the lowest. 

[If aware of Priority Groups]
- Can you please describe how this was communicated to you and how you understood the impact to you and your benefits?
  > I actually stumbled upon it among one of the VA websites. Don't think it was va.gov. Maybe my health e benefits, don't remember.

- Before you completed enrollment, how were you aware of Priority Groups or copays as part of the health care benefits package?
- [if yes] Can you tell me more about what you knew before you applied and how you learned that information?
- Since you have been using your benefits, what have you learned about Priority Groups and the impact it has on you and health care benefits that you wish you knew during the application?

[If NOT aware of Priority Groups, ask question and skip to fourth topic]
- What do you think Priority Groups are? There is no right or wrong answer here, just explain your understanding of what you think it could be and how that is important to health care benefits. 


### Things to watch for:
- [How do Veterans describe their awareness of benefits? Confident, unsure, frustrated?]
- [Do Veterans consistently rely on word of mouth or a variety of in person resources to understand their health care benefits?]
- [Do Veterans' confidently know their Priority Group and what that means to them and their benefits?]
- [What is the current process and experience around Priority Groups?]
- [What are the knowledge gaps around Priority Groups and health care costs?]
- [What things would Veterans like to see or like to change in regards to Priority Groups?]




## Fourth Topic: [Ideal State] - 10 minutes
- Could you describe how - in a perfect world - you would **want** the health care application process to go for you in regards to learning about benefit options and what you qualify for?
> Oh, wow, perfect world.
> Being able to sit down with a counselor, and discuss those things. Face to face, virtual like we are in Zoom or tele conference.
> Sit down for an hour, hour and a half, if multiple appointments needed. schedule hopefully not too far out.
> You go in and apply and don't know what is going on and you have this packet you may not understand and the things are not listed.
> Being able to sit down and speak with somebody would be of great assistance.
> VA representative or employee that understands the paperwork process and what, almost like a not say patient advocate, but that type of administrative knowledge of the VA health care system.

- How would you want to learn about how to use your benefits that you are eligible for?
- What tools, communication, people could make this the best process possible in your mind?
  > emails are great, i get them now
  > Weekly, I review the email. I still got buddies that I was in the military with and friends shared that information with them
  > Just the other day got an email about enrolling in the VA health care and the PACT act was extended.
  > How does a VA disability rating affect my job as a detective? That is there biggest concern. VA health care is completley different from VA disability, you can apply because
  > Here is the information for you to do it, and whether or not they do it. Lead a horse to water, can't make it drink.
  > Always pushing them to do both, enroll in health care and apply for disabily benefits.
- How would you like to discover what options you have to get the level of care that is right for you?
> oh, wow
> Um, I am not sure. What is the right level of care for me?
> Mostly moving on a break fix type of health care, more recently my new PCP has been pushing me to do more wholistic point of view, not just break fix
> He has me coming in every six months, just to do blood work and everything on the lab report still healthy
> Taking my medication, keeping my blood pressure down.
> Putting me in for a consult at the weight management clinic, between COVID and several surgeries gained some weight. Not being able to do anything, not lift weights because of sholder surgeries
> I appreciate that from him

- What information would be important to you so you feel confident when having to choose between health care benefit options?
> Wow.....(thinking)
> Um, knowing that, understanding that out on the civilian sector. You have to go somewhere to see somebody else for everything.
> For the most part for the VA health care, your PCP at the satelite clinic or hospital. Single button to push
> Where as civilian health care, you could have a dozen. I like that about the VA health care.
> Knowing that pretty much everything that I need is going, can be done at the VA hospital.
> Even with my surgeries, it was a VA surgeron, but out on the economy at a civilian hospital


### Things to watch for:
- [Are there any terminology used that stand out as the Veteran is describing their ideal process?]
- [What steps do they call out?]
- [What steps do they leave out?]
- [What do they mention or call out as information that is helpful in making decisions about health care benefit choices?]




## Fifth Topic: [Current paper instructions] - 10 minutes
- For this next topic, I am going to share my screen and show you an example of instructions that appear on the health care benefits application.

- Can you explain to me in your own words, what these options mean and how they are different?
[quietly reading for a few seconds...minute)
  > So I guess with this, I don't understand the difference between enrollment and registration
  > I find this a little bit, not a little bit but quite confusing. 
  
- Which one would you select and can you explain to me your thinking behind that?
> For me, I would do both. It gives the option, for benefit or benfits, I would do both in an effort to cover all my bases if I am not sure. Throw mud on the wall and see what sticks.
  
- Is there anything about these instructions that you find confusing or need more explanation before you could answer?
> you know.. the CFRs are not easy reading. That just, you got 3 in here, that are. What the heck?
> You need a lawyer to understand the combined regulations. The average Veteran is not an attorney.
> The reason I would select both, the CFR is right there, but what the heck is the 17.38... what the heck is that?
> Well, what are the eligibilty requirements.
> I understand what voc rehap is, but I didn't know there was a US code for it.
> That is why I would select both.
> The CFRs, a way to I don't know a pop out where you hover over it.
> Say in the marine corp, break it down Barney style.
> Have the laymens terms for it, and that have the full if you are an attorney or have an attorney.



- [Link to Mural board for example](https://app.mural.co/t/departmentofveteransaffairs9999/m/departmentofveteransaffairs9999/1690928150976/0ce17c5b63ed3a2fd75736ac481d2d6e31fd927b?sender=uadf1ed7fe7c76f0914967329)

- Now that you have seen an example of choosing benefit options, would you change anything about your ideal state we just talked about right before this?
 > I think I would keep my ideal state the same. That counselor or representative could explain what the heck the CFRs mean, in addition to the USC 31. That would be about it I think.  

### Things to watch for:
- [What are the scenarios or examples given to why registration would be the preferred choice?]
- [Is selecting both options a common answer?]
- [What words and terms to participants use when they are explaining the differences?]
- [Is there often confusion to what to choose and what that means to them and their health care benefits?]



## Post-Task Interview - 5 minutes

- Is there anything else you would like to add about what we talked about today?
  > the only thing I would like to add, the VA websites and their consolidation is becoming much better
  > It is not as great as some commercial sites, I understand commercial sites have a lot more freedom to do what they want.
  > Very much like how certain things have been consolidating to single websites.
  > When it was, having the notices on the other website, go here on this date..
  > I really like that, it is, I don't know how to reduce the paperwork required for everything and reduce the time backlog. I think that would be optimum.
  > Reduce paperwork and reduce time.
  > That would be so great, so many people I have spoken to say they don't even want to try because it is so confusing.
  > Just tell them, do the paperwork now and you know what in a year, two and half years, however long it takes, and then you know come back to it in a couple of years and come back to it.
  > Try to get all of my friends to enroll in VA health care.
 
- Any questions for me?
- What are you all attempting to get from us the participants. We only look at one page, the CFRs,
- What are you trying to do to optimization the website?
