# Conversation Guide for "registration only" mental model study [Health Enrollment Team, 10-10EZ, August 2023][Cohort 2 - Currently Enrolled]

*Start recording.*

- **I have started recording**. I'd like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record my screen and the audio as we talk today? 


## Warm-up Questions  - 5 minutes

Let’s start with a few warm-up questions.

- Are you currently enrolled and using health care benefits from the VA?
> Yes, I am. 3 years [? I did not hear the year clearly]
- How often do you visit a VA facility?
> Every 6 months
- How often do you visit VA.gov?
> Twice a month

## First Topic: [Current Application Process] - 10 minutes

- Can you explain to me in your own words the process you took when you applied for benefits?
> Create Account, verify military record, ID me, once pass, it you log onto the account. It is not communicated. 
- [If they don't specify] Did you complete this online, in-person or via paper application by yourself?'
- Was there any part of that process that was frustrating or difficult for you?
> Very tech-savvy, no problem but maybe others would struggle with multiple location. Find it easy that there is one location, quite easier now than couple of years ago.
- What is your recollection about the amount of information you had to provide?
> Not sure. Back then, you had to submit DD214, once submitted they have a copy. Now you can just log in anytime. Had it scanned on his computer, so could upload it on his computer.
- When it comes to registering and health care at the VA, what does that mean to you?
> For me, my way of them helping me get help. Getting help. Finding ways to find doctors easily. Can provide a message to the primary doctor and refill prescription. 


### Things to watch for:
- [What terminology does the Veteran use as they talk about their experience (enroll, register, priority groups, etc)?]
- [How does the Veteran portray the overall process - easy, difficult, uneventful?]
- [What pain points or areas of confusion are revealed?]
- [What things does a Veteran talk about in regards to the term registration? VA Facilities?]


## Second Topic: [Choosing Benefits/Understanding Eligibility] - 10 minutes

- How did you determine what health benefits you could get when you recently completed the application?
> Looked for a way to be seen by VA doctors. Option for seeing VA or local private doctor, choose the faster timeframe option. Can take months, up to 3-4 months. Recently got an injury and have to wait months to get seen.
>
> Time to be seen in the most important health care benefits.

- What resources did you use and how to understand what you might qualify for?
> They send you a link with a description of what you're looking for. 
- Did you want to only get care for one specific health concern, or were you interested in enrolling in full health care coverage?
> Was looking for pretty much everything
- Looking back now after you have been using health care benefits, is there anything you wish you would have known during the application?
> No answer for this question, can't recall.
  

### Things to watch for:
- [How does the Veteran descirbe the process of figuring out what they are eligble for - are they frustrated, do they find it easy, do they just expect the VA to have the data and figure it out for them?]
- [Is there a mix or preference for wanting to be told what they get or search it out on their own?]
- [Is there any confusion about their benefits within the health care benefits they recieve?]



## Third Topic: [Understanding how to use benefits] - 10 minutes
- Explain to me in your own words what you get with your VA health care benefits?
- What help or resources did you rely on to help you figure this all out?
- Can you tell me more about what Priority Group you are in for your health care benefits now?

[If aware of Priority Groups]
- Can you please describe how this was communicated to you and how you understood the impact to you and your benefits?
> I feel like I have earn my VA Health after an honorable discharge.
- Before you completed enrollment, how were you aware of Priority Groups or copays as part of the health care benefits package?
> Went to a local facility. Found it to be very helpful. This was back before they started all the online stuff.
- [if yes] Can you tell me more about what you knew before you applied and how you learned that information?
- Since you have been using your benefits, what have you learned about Priority Groups and the impact it has on you and health care benefits that you wish you had known during the application?
> I'm in the general category. Nothing
> 
> Priority group is a new term.

[If NOT aware of Priority Groups, ask question and skip to fourth topic]
- What do you think Priority Groups are? There is no right or wrong answer here, just explain your understanding of what you think it could be and how that is important to health care benefits.
> Maybe mental health issues. The rest of us are for general issues, pain medication, and flu shots. 


### Things to watch for:
- [How do Veterans describe their awareness of benefits? Confident, unsure, frustrated?]
- [Do Veterans consistently rely on word of mouth or a variety of in person resources to understand their health care benefits?]
- [Do Veterans' confidently know their Priority Group and what that means to them and their benefits?]
- [What is the current process and experience around Priority Groups?]
- [What are the knowledge gaps around Priority Groups and health care costs?]
- [What things would Veterans like to see or like to change in regards to Priority Groups?]




## Fourth Topic: [Ideal State] - 10 minutes
- Could you describe how - in a perfect world - you would **want** the health care application process to go for you in regards to learning about benefit options and what you qualify for?
> Lots of information out there. Here and there, it is up to myself to figure out. 
>
> Maybe provide a 'list' that is easier to read instead of all the information they put out.
- How would you want to learn about how to use your benefits that you are eligible for?
> Maybe a category, for service-connected entry. A link that has all the relevant information for that category. 
- What tools, communication, people could make this the best process possible in your mind?
- How would you like to discover what options you have to get the level of care that is right for you?
> No thoughts on that right now. 
- What information would be important to you so you feel confident when having to choose between health care benefit options?


### Things to watch for:
- [Are there any terminology used that stand out as the Veteran is describing their ideal process?]
- [What steps do they call out?]
- [What steps do they leave out?]
- [What do they mention or call out as information that is helpful in making decisions about health care benefit choices?]




## Fifth Topic: [Current paper instructions] - 10 minutes
- For this next topic, I am going to share my screen and show you an example of instructions that appear on the health care benefits application.
- Can you explain to me in your own words, what these options mean and how they are different?
> Enrollment means you have to be an honorable discharge. Based on previous knowledge
>
> Participant quietly reading the Registration portion.
> My understanding is that I am able to get these same type of surfaces. 
> Instruction is clear for my understanding. 
> Once you're Enrollment and Register. 
- Which one would you select and can you explain to me your thinking behind that?
> Only would check the Registration box
- Is there anything about these instructions that you find confusing or need more explanation before you could answer?
> Easy to understand


- [Link to Mural board for example](https://app.mural.co/t/departmentofveteransaffairs9999/m/departmentofveteransaffairs9999/1690928150976/0ce17c5b63ed3a2fd75736ac481d2d6e31fd927b?sender=uadf1ed7fe7c76f0914967329)

- Now that you have seen an example of choosing benefit options, would you change anything about your ideal state we just talked about right before this?
> This aligns with my ideal state. This is what I'm looking for as I sign up. 
  

### Things to watch for:
- [What are the scenarios or examples given to why registration would be the preferred choice?]
- [Is selecting both options a common answer?]
- [What words and terms to participants use when they are explaining the differences?]
- [Is there often confusion to what to choose and what that means to them and their health care benefits?]



## Post-Task Interview - 5 minutes

- Is there anything else you would like to add about what we talked about today?
> Very helpful for myself to learn more.
- Any questions for me? 

