Facility Locator - Screen reader, Usability Test - P10
======================================================

Tech set-up
-----------

Checklist:

-   Are you using a computer or mobile phone during our session today?  iPhone

-   Are you wearing headphones today? No

-   What browser are you using today? Built in browser. 

-   Do you have a screen reader on this device? I use Voice over on the phone. As far as screen readers no others on the phone

-   How long have you been using it? about 10 years. 

-   What if on a computer: I use fusion so it is JAWS, zoom flexibility so I can have it zoom and use jaws, I have been using fusion 2 years ago and jaws 10 years ago. 

-   Are you using a screen magnifier today? I have bold and large setting but nothing beyond that. 

-   Do you know your screen reader's speaking rate (verbosity setting)? High, medium, low? I don't really change it on the phone I leave it stock because I don't use it often. I use most of it on the computer but I might put it at 70 on the computer. 

-   About yourself: I am not tech savvy. I have a visual impairment some central vison depending on light. Websites get so frustrating you can just suck it up. 

How does zoom text help: 

-   it depends. I use Fusion so I can use both and it toggles easily. I use the enlarged font if I know the web page I am going to or know where I need to navigate to because I know which button I need. If searching jaws is more helpful because I can go through everything and is more helpful. 

-   Enlargement is helpful: yes when I know the website or want to look at a photo. Jaws of fusion helps when I need to read or searching on an unknown website or layout. It helps me find things quicker.

Discovery
---------

### Internet searching for a location

During our time together, we'll mostly be focused on finding VA locations online.

-   Can you tell me of a recent time when you used the internet to find the location of a place that you needed to visit? I was looking up a fishing location in ND for a friend. 

-   What devices or technology did you use? For that I started with my phone, opened the app, got the city put in and then went to the computer because I wanted to look at the events in the area. It was more for events on the computer rather than location. If I am looking up a location the phone is more convenient and easier. 

-   How so: the search feature I don't have to wait for it to boot up and Siri is there. I use Siri a lot to open different apps and set alarms. Once in a while you can ask a question, I don't use it a lot but I like to ask the question and it brings you close to it. 

-   Could you tell me about the last time you searched for a VA location? Yes but not to often. I already know where they are. I have been to the main website but if you need an urgent care, calling the nurses line is calling. IF you call the nurses line you provide your address and they tell you the closest urgent care to your location. It could be done on the computer but I don't know if you can yet. I know theres a list of clinics by state but if you aren't sure, states are big, if you don't know the city names it is hard to locate the one you want. It was like 45 minutes away and I figured I would wait. It was like a month ago. Well we are in the middle of nowhere and that's why the connection is bad. 

-   Have you ever used the VA.gov website? Yes. I used it more when I worked for the blinded vets 4-5 years ago. I did that because you need to find local clinics and then you had to help them find who to contact. More recently I am dealing with my husbands parents and their elder issues so we have been looking at the basic Vietnam qualification era things to see what to do. 

-   When searching for burial information, experience: it was slow and cumbersome. I think the problem is that there is so much information it is hard to get to exactly where I need to be. It's not like I can just ask, TX Vietnam vets eligibility for burial sites through the government. Instead I get if he dies at the va you get, service connected disability you get this. There are a number of cemeteries they can be at. It is a lot of sort through. I think visually it would have been easier. The other problem was how it was listed out, it didn't say exactly where the cemeteries are. It did but you had to look at it in google maps. They can say it is in a here but then you have to look it up if you are out of state or unfamiliar with the current state. It really is a challenge. 

TASKS
-----

### Task 1

#### Getting to 'Find a VA location'

Next, I'm going to ask you to complete a task.

1.  Could you please find your nearest VA? The question is, is it a va clinic or va hospital. That's the main thing, am I looking for the clinic close to me. Yes I normally take the first option it gives me. Then you get into the list of where are these places. You can type in the address bit I don't know where it is. I would tab through the entire page one by one to find it or I would check the links to see if it is there. I don't know when it is called but I would hope they labeled it right. I am in the page. I use links so I don't need to use tba. I am already on the states link. It says map here but it is probably the interactive link. That was fun. 

-- Since I am on the laptop my insert key isnt sending me to where I want to go. I don't know what's going on with it. 

How would you find it here: I would tab through each piece because it has to be here somewhere. I would search first. Typed in locations. I think I am hitting spacebar but it wont search for me. I want to search locations but it's not so I skip it because that is annoying. Clicked on find VA locations. In the search box it told me to click spacebar to search but it wouldn't let me do it. 

Then what: so now I am at the find va locations. 

What do you see: my inserts and f6 f7 aren't doing anything. I don't know what's going on with that. Its just not functioning how I want it to. I am in thaw wrong spot. 

What page are we on: I am in the find a word piece and for some reason I am struggling to get back to that so now I am back at find va locations. At this point I would use the fusion and get vision going to find out where I need to be because personally I am not. I don't know if fusion will work. Typed in zip code, Facility va health, service type: all va services. Palestine is about 25-30 minutes away. Theres a phone number. I first thought it was GPS coordinates. It didn't say phone number. It has get directions then it throws me numbers so I thought it was gps coordinates so it should have phone number or clinic number prior to the number. 

What else on this page: I think that is the main problem for veterans, it is a lot of information. It is over whelming and if you don't work with jaws or your computer everyday it is challenging. The VA tries to have so much information on the sites it is over whelming. The other thing is this didn't read, it says limited services and hours it didn't read so a jaws user wouldn't know that. They could have a link to the actual hours and services. People should know they aren't going to be a 24/7 clinic. It is just a small town. Sometimes it links the website to the clinic which links you back to the va.gov website which gives no additional information.  

### Task 2

#### Using 'Find a VA location' near current location

[SEARCH]

Next, I'm going to walk us through a scenario. I'd like you to imagine that you've just moved to where you live today and you're looking for a dermatologist at your nearest VA. You can pretend that you don't know where that is.

1.  How might you do that on this page? Personally, Huston VA is more encompassing of all health services, it's just a 4 hour drive. I just don't drive so. Including community care or just any. There are a lot of extra steps. I would go to the main va because theres no extra paperwork. Service type, there we go. Then it doesn't tell you that it has results, so you wonder if it had updated. In a spotty reception area it would be good to know. So Palestine VA has a dermatologist. That's interesting I didn't know that. 

### Task 3

#### Using 'Find a VA location' to plan ahead

Next, I'm going to walk us through a different scenario. Imagine you are planning a trip and you'd like to know what the closest VA hospital would be from where you'll be staying. It can be somewhere you've visited in the past if that's easier.

1.  How might you do that on this page? Zip code enters, va health services and all va health services. It loaded but it didn't sound right. that's what that was. There was voiceover and the internet not secure not stable came up. 

-   How did this search experience work for you? Again it doesn't tell me it loaded results so that is always a challenge. It takes long to load the page; it would be nice for it to say verbally VA results came in and Hibbing is the closest. Some type of verbal response telling me it did what it was supposed to do. 

-   Features you would like on here: an interactive map is great and all. They do have a use my location. I don't know the overall is fine. The facility type thing is a little confusing to me, it would be nice to have it broken down for options. The va health thing, I guess instead of saying va health, all of those things under is va health. Maybe VA hospital, VA CBOC, VA Community care, VA urgent care. Most of the time we use a va out of state we are looking for an ER va. One that is open 24hrs, emergent issues. If we are traveling in advance you get meds taken care of, you don't need to go unless you are in an emergency situation or in the traveling vet program. Most people using this is first time users to find a close va. If it is an emergent situation they need to find the nearest va or do they need to go to the civilian place. The VA calls me everyday around 9am. Their weight loss program, mildly annoying on Sunday mornings. Unless you are moving to a new place, most people will not go here. I would have looked here if I known there were cemeteries . I guess it can be convenient but I don't know. It would be nice for the search thing to come up and tell me what I am looking for. 

Post-Task Interview
-------------------

1.  Are there any websites or apps that work well for you that do a better job of finding locations or searching? Um, I guess it's not the website or the search its how detailed my request is and how they sort results. Google is great at times but you have to listen to the link to know if it is a government website, a reliable source. As far as s maps I don't typically do a lot in maps. There was the around me maps for a while and it was nice, you could sort for coffee or shops and it would tell you how far away they are form you. I liked that. Then be my eyes depending on my connection if I am looking for something and I am struggling. It will tell me where to look, it is a live person so they can see what you are looking for. If you are at the airport they can help you find it. they can tell you to turn left. Theres a paid app, IRA, some pieces are free and the va has a contract for them at this point. Similar concept. 

2.  What helps you know that: typically for a .gov website. I know it is verified information otherwise it needs to be an organization I know or trust like veteran information is DAV, American legion. If it is vet help blah blah blah they are looking for money half the time so they either help you with the claim for a piece of it or send you to their sponsor so they get a piece. I had 3 websites try to sell me a burial plot and benefits. Not what I was looking for. I think that is the hard part, separating the reliable information from the scams. 

3.  If you had a magic wand and could fix one thing about the features you interacted with today, what would it be? So I guess I would being a blind person, I would like the main links at the top of the page. I know theres a column of the main links for the va and it is on every page. The top of that page should be that information for that page. So when it goes to find locations. You know what you are getting into so bringing up the form first rather than a lot of other stuff to read would be nice. 

4.  Do not want repeat links, want to be right into the link: I know people say simplify to make it easier. As I get older and the blind vets, they get frustrated so they don't continue on the computer. I have been very lazy with jaws in the past 4 years. To make it easier and simpler, yeah you clicked on the screen just take me to the information or the form to fill out. If I want additional infomration or links at the top just put them at the bottom. Visually it doesn't make sense but for a screen reader that needs to listen to it all we stop listening after 30 seconds. 

Those are all the questions that I had for you today.

-   Do you have any questions for me or is there anything else that you think that I should know?

Thank-You and Closing
---------------------
