Facility Locator - Screen reader, Usability Test - P4
=====================================================

Tech set-up
-----------

Checklist:

-   Are you using a computer or mobile phone during our session today? Currently an iPad. I do have other options if we need to do that. 

-   Are you wearing headphones today? No. 

-   What browser are you using today?

-   Do you have a screen reader on this device? I don't think this iPad has it because it costs money. I didn't know anything about voice over until you guys mentioned it. the iPad reads to be so I can read PDF. 

-   Voiceover on iPad: yes I guess. It says speak. Say if I want to read something I copy it and I say speak and it talks to me. 

-   Are you using a screen magnifier today? Not currently I tend to use two fingers to pull it. I think I need to be clear. I have a learning disability and use the adaptive infomration for that not a vison disability. I can say I think it is a huge difference for me, I am 65 and just graduated form college. I wouldn't have been able to do that if I didn't. It only took 20-40 years.  

-   About yourself: I am retired army, service connected 100 percent. I have mental and medical issues. I found out I had a learning disability after 20 years in the service. I started college and failed so they tested me in 1995 and found out I had a head injury. I became on the deans list and then take classes and finally graduated with a health and human services degree. 

-   What helped the most: I still use them today, as technology. Having a note taker so I can pay attention instead of figuring out how to spell. This was 1995 when it started. A note taker then it was recording for dysplasia then. They would record my textbooks for me if they weren't already. Then when growing up reading and spell has been an issue. I found ways I figuring out what was going on. I was in intelligence; I was good at my job. It is interesting. I did 20 years in dessert storm and desert shield. As a child I didn't read because I struggled. Now I read one book after another. The va tests me every 3 years to make sure it doesn't go away; I don't see how it would but whatever. They provided the iPad to go to school. Textbooks are online now and so I can read along while it is reading it to me. You can follow along or stop it, it is a huge thing to have the iPad for school. 

-   Help in other way or other devices: for the most part I sue my phone because it is a bigger screen on the iPad. I take it when needed to do things like writing. I lead a group that is arts for vets, if doing zoom I would have my iPad but the phone is like a minicomputer. Laptop is a Mac as well.

Discovery
---------

### Internet searching for a location

During our time together, we'll mostly be focused on finding VA locations online.

-   Can you tell me of a recent time when you used the internet to find the location of a place that you needed to visit? I google it, they will have a website or have directions. If I am on a mapping program I may ask where the closest one is. 

-   Any devices and by voice: I just talk into it. My spelling is bad so I use my voice. With dragon it had to use my voice and get use to my voice. 

-   Compared to voice over: much easier now with this. I use voiceover more; I haven't updated dragon lately. 

-   How long: 2-3 years they updated. 11 is my last one so I don't know what it is now. I think it would still work. Each update costs. 

-   Last time: my husband uses the dragon,: I was going to my grandkids house and I didn't know how to get there so I will put it in the  map. That's how my brain works. Map comes up on my phone I think it is google map but I could do it with any of the search engine. Siri is interesting. My grandson taught me when in CO with them and he had medication to take every 4 hours and he told echo to set a time for 4 hours. I thought it was a really good idea. When I had this thing I had an alarm for 15 minutes prior, it is very beneficial 

-   Could you tell me about the last time you searched for a VA location? Probably in FL I was sick and we didn't know if I needed to go so we needed to know the clinic there. It is standard answers, it is on my phone and I would go to a search engine and search VA locations. I could have said it but I knew how to spell it so I typed it in. 

-   Have you ever used the VA.gov website? In another research you were doing. I don't see a big difference; I normally go to ebenfits then if I need something else it has a link. I don't know if they are mirroring images but it is a lot of stuff. I normally go to ebenfits. Until I did research with this organization I didn't know how to use va.gov, it didn't engage me to use it. I use myhealthevet to see my medical records.

-   No need to go va.gov: right

TASKS
-----

### Task 1

#### Getting to 'Find a VA location'

Next, I'm going to ask you to complete a task.

1.  Could you please find your nearest VA? Normally I would go to the search bar but it isnt letting me use the keyboard. I go to the search bar and say to it find the location for the nearest va. It didn't say it outload, it must have went off. Normally it does talk to me. It came up, I didn't get good answers it didn't give locations. I am talking to it I am not typing it. I will say va locations. I bet I have the voice down. It came up near be and it provides Stratton va which I normally go to.

2.  What at this point: you can actually go to va.gov. isnt that nice. I could go that. Find va location is what it said there. I said va and it say vahh. It is talking along with me as it is typed. 

3.  Is it mirroring or is it on the phone: initially on my phone and it gave me va.gov so I am back on my iPad. Is there a way to do that. I think if I take a picture on my phone it shows on my iPad or writing. I would click find va locations. I see the map. I could pretend I don't know where it is in clearwater FL. 

4.  Do you normally do it on your phone, we could stick to the phone because it is more of that you do and we could see any issues that occur when done: okay. 

5.  On phone: va.gov, it asks to allow to look like gps. Give it permission and it must have remembered the old search. I go to va.gov. initially it gave me mental health first then va.gov. it kind of makes sense that people in crisis might need it.

6.  Google results: yes. Google.com it makes sense to me because if looking for a va they might be in a mental health crisis. I would go to va.gov and now find locations. (reading page) all the way to the bottle there is a toggle switch for find va locations so click on that. It provides the option to use locations,

7.  Did it switch pages: yes it went to find location, use my location so they can find me. Normally I would just type in or say Albany Ny. 

8.  Did it fill it in: Yes  but no results yet. I need to add the facility. In truth I think it is a pain in the neck, I chose va health all services. It provides a map to. It provided the va I go to so it worked. 

9.  Typing or reading: it asked facility so I put all and services all. There were less than .9 miles. I could walk there then it's more like 9 miles. 

10. Nearest va: yes but the mileage is wrong. I cant walk to my va it is about 9 miles not .9.

11. You said when you were find a va service, choosing the thing was a pain in the neck, in what way: it provides to many options. It asks if you want urgent care, va doesn't have on. Community provider in network, benefits, va centers. Theres huge differences here. 

12. Volume of options not how to pick: yeah. I guess I am not use to the site. Then it says service type and it provides the options or you have to fill it in. it comes in handy. 

13. Easier experience for you: In my case because I knew. If I had popped up at Stratton or .9 away I would have just gone. It doesn't provide options in Albany NY until you fill in the options. I would have liked to see the .9 miles is such and such but that's more of a google search.

14. Without making selection of facility and service type: right. What if I am in crisis, am I going to scroll through all this crap. 

15. Did it just pop up on google: yes. Stratton came up before va.gov did on google. I see something else on here that drives me nuts. Before you can find your location, it comes up with the covid update. I am sick of the nonsense. All I wanted to know was the location of a va thank you very much. 

### Task 2

#### Using 'Find a VA location' near current location

[SEARCH]

Next, I'm going to walk us through a scenario. I'd like you to imagine that you've just moved to where you live today and you're looking for a dermatologist at your nearest VA. You can pretend that you don't know where that is.

1.  How might you do that on this page? I would go to the special services but lets see. Again it makes you do this. I will  back out and see if it provides an option before that. I arrow back to the initial page. (reading page) normally I would sign into my account because I have one. 

2.  Arrow back: it is still va.gov but I was on find va location so I arrowed back to the homepage. Like I said I would normally sign in through ebenfits to come to this page. (reading page) I am on the home page and it says healthcare but I don't see specialty clinics but it is not clear where to find it in trust. I would have to go back to the location thing because it had specialty care there. 

3.  When given the task, first instinct was to go to the homepage and find it there instead of the find a va location: yes. 

4.  Why was that: well, honestly I don't have a good answer. It was a brain fart on my part. I would like to change my answer and go back to find va location. Now to find out how I did that. Oh all the way to the bottom. 

5.  What do you see now: when scrolling down through 10-15 pages if it were hard copy. All the way to the bottom it says find location, region, or cemetery. That's how I would find the dermatology. I don't know how to spell it so hopefully that works.  Okay so I have my microphone. Because I put in community provider in va network, it asks service type and I use the mic to say dermatology and it typed the whole thing. I have to remember someone listen. It gives me a laundry list, theres like 10 things. Procedures, pediatrics, labs, pathology, clinics, and micrographic. I would be lost, well maybe labs or clinics. It makes you select. I will do clinical and labs. It gives you an option for the list or a map which is kind of nice.  It provided the map; the list was to board. Oh maybe use my location maybe. I didn't put a location. It gives an option to click use location. That was the problem I didn't tell them where so it gave me everything. It asks me if it is okay for the va to use the current location and I allow it to. 

6.  Results or still in drop down: correct. 

7.  Facility type: Is community provider in va network. It wouldn't give me everything if I just put in health care. Then the other thing is theres two drop boxes, facility, and service type. I did dermatology in service type. 

8.  Why community providers: I wasn't getting anything under va health. It must have been because I didn't have my address in first. I don't go out of network. I am not going to pay out of nose for something so I made sure it was in network. 

9.  In va network provide reassurance: yes. In truth I really didn't get anything. I was unsuccessful. 

10. Wouldn't normally allow it to locate you: I don't really like that, no. as much as I hate big brother watching me you cant really stop it. I like the fact that they ask me. If I have to. It is just security, you know. 

11. Did you put in the address: no, it wasn't happy and did not provide the information. If I have the mic I would do that, most of the type if I type it I fight with it with spelling. 

12. What do you normally put in: Albany NY. Normally I would have just done the health but lets see. Services you get something else when you do that. Okay, I put in Albany NY. Facility type VA health. Then it provides a list (reading list) and I found dermatology in alphabetical order. That was just as easy. I can recognize the word and tell you if it is spelled wrong but I cant tell you how to spell it. 

13. Seeing it in the list good for you: yes. The list scrolls and its there. It let me put in dermatology but when I say it, it provides to many options. 

14. Not notice the location box or just trying to go through: I wanted to see what it would give me and if big brother already knew where I was without putting it in. 

15. Next step: go to the clinic or make an appointment. I am still on the search. The next step I would be done. Let me think. I don't think we figured out where it was located. I am given a map, theres a red dot so lets go see where that is. I am using my fingers. When I click on it, it doesn't tell me where it is. It is Stratton and on the list it is Stratton. 113 holland. It also gives a va clinic but what could they do. It still says .9 miles. I know why, because I didn't give my specific address because it is legally in Albany NY. Let me see real quick. Guess what it is 4.8 miles away and I could walk it on a good day but were not gonna do that today. The hospital is about 5 miles form be but since I had Albany NY and not my address it was giving me false information as I like to say but then garbage in garbage out. 

16. Stratton as your closed, are there others: I am, different clinics, troy NY is 7 miles away. Then 33 Miles away are different clinic. No one would know they don't have dermatology. A Clinic because our clinic have primary care and maybe social worker. Anything else, I am fortunate my hospital is my clinic. Normal clinics done have all that stuff. If someone doesn't know that they could go 33 miles. 

17. Selection, va health, dermatology, still selected: yes.

18. Your experience, listing isnt correct to you: Right because they are giving clinics. That might be another thing, it didn't provide civilian options so it is only va but if I changed it maybe. It is only va. 

19. What could have been easier: putting in my real address. I am not the typical veteran. Some people just throw the phone down and not try to look. I think because of my learning disability I had to struggle to figure it out, it is more of a puzzle to me so I didn't mind but some people wouldn't do it and think they don't want to help.

20. First made the search, you mentioned the map: it is on va.gov

21. Is that the first thing you saw: yeah that was the first thing, it provides an option for the list or map. They are side by side but I went to the map

22. Helpful: yeah. If I didn't know where I was going. For instance, because it says it is at 111 holland ave. if I don't live there I can look at the map. Oh there is get directions, I didn't see that the first time. I don't know how I did that truthfully. Guess what I found. So I accidently clicked on it and it takes me to the va medical center, website, get directions and them dermatology. I don't know how it did it. still on va.gov. I must have clicked on Stratton. Okay I want to call it a toggle, it is highlighted in bold and it took me there. Before I accidently did it I didn't think of doing it. I guess I am not to engaged this morning. Learning though computers it should go there but it has the get direction and the phone number. I need to slow down. 

23. Not clear: yeah I went to the map. It is under the list and is very handy to get all of the information I wanted. 

-   Can you try that now?

-   How does this search experience work for you?

-   What could be improved?

[RESULTS]

1.  Can you talk me through the location options?

-   How does this listing work for you?

-   What could be improved?

### Task 3

#### Using 'Find a VA location' to plan ahead

Next, I'm going to walk us through a different scenario. Imagine you are planning a trip and you'd like to know what the closest VA hospital would be from where you'll be staying. It can be somewhere you've visited in the past if that's easier.

1.  How might you do that on this page? No I know where it is so I go to find va location. If I know I am going to clear water FL I would sue the map. Or I could say it. there entire US is there, I would go to FL. Then I know that it is near Tampa. It doesn't recognize me doing that. I drug the map and hoping to pin it but it doesn't work. I would have to say clearwater FL. It goes back to telling me that I need to know the type so I would say urgent care.

2.  What's happening: not much.  I said clearwater, facility is urgent care. Then specialty is urgent care as well. I am clicking search. List. They are civilian urgent cares not va facilities. I would go back and not say urgent care

3.  Says civilian urgent care and stop to go back, why at this point: well I am retired and I am entitled to va services so I prefer to go to the va not to pay out of pocket, everywhere you go if it is new location it is always in the records so you can follow your medical. I don't know if there is a va in clear water so that would eb good to know. I go back to va health, little do I know. Under va health, specialty again, (reading list) I would put primary care because it is a general station to start with. One would think that would be a clinic. I got va facilities, 9 miles away and 10 miles away. Hers the option I would choose, theres a va clinic, for primary care that is 9 miles away but with clinics will they be able to handle it. I know theres a va medical center so depending on my problem I might just go there. The dermatology is it at the clinic or just send me to the Medical center 1 mile down the road. Dehydration could eb done at the clinic, but bit by something maybe not. 

4.  Than va today: Google search bar. Again it is only because I was not aware of va.gov. it is education right. 

5.  Google results tell you if it is a clinic or medical center and have enough information to choose: yes but you could call to see if the clinic could handle it. in some cases you can talk to the nurse. I think google would have done the same thing truthfully. 

6.  How did you clear the box: there is a X so it make sit blank. Now that I think of it but like how I didn't put in my address. Clear water is a big place. I might have put in the address of the resort I was in because I could get different answers. I don't know the address so. I think with va.gov I would need to be retrained. I have a saying that I need to do it for 30 days before having it embedding in me. It is getting use to VA.gov's

7.  Anything missing that would have been helpful: finding va location isnt obvious under the phone page. I had to scroll to find it

8.  Back to home page, where would you want it: I think it is important so on top. Under healthcare you have the options (reading list), why cant it have find healthcare. 

9.  Tell me about the main menu, expect it here: I would expect it under menu. Oh it is. The answer is yes I expect it to be there and it is there. 

10. More obvious at the bottom: Yeah. 

Post-Task Interview
-------------------

1.  Are there any features or functionality missing for you on this page?

-   Why? Why here?

3.  Are there any websites or apps that work well for you that do a better job of finding locations or searching?

4.  If you had a magic wand and could fix one thing about the features you interacted with today, what would it be? Maybe instead of it being under the menu, the first thing I see, oh theres a search bar to. It's like I am just now waking up. To answer the question I prefer find a location at the top before covid vaccines. You go to the top. Now that I see search I would like to see if it is there. Well that didn't work I typed in find facilities and it gave me junk. It gave me va programs, funding. Maybe just put facilities. Then it comes to find va locator. It worked. It is looking for find location, is what it wanted. They use the term find locations and didn't like the term facilities. If you use different words people use, to me facility or clinic. I think location is a little weird truthfully. 

5.  What is weird about it: I just wouldn't search like that. I would google find va clinic or hospital. I wouldn't ask for a location. I guess that is what I would change. Find va location would be on the first page above covid.  

Those are all the questions that I had for you today.

-   Do you have any questions for me or is there anything else that you think that I should know? No I do not have any other questions for you. Voice over automatically turned it off if not used, it is off again. Yes, on the phone too. 

Thank-You and Closing
---------------------
