Facility Locator - Screen reader, Usability Test - P6
=====================================================

Tech set-up
-----------

Checklist:

-   Are you using a computer or mobile phone during our session today? iPhone

-   Are you wearing headphones today? No I can put on headphones if you need me to. 

-   Do you have a screen reader on this device? VoiceOver. 

-   iPhone is default or other software: the only one I have is the built in one on the iPhone I can change the speech but its by default. 

-   How long have you been using it? I have had it for a better part of 3 years. This is the iPhone 8. 

-   Are you using a screen magnifier today? It's purely voiceover, I cant read the screen. I have low vision. 

-   Are there any other assistive technologies that you use?

-   Do you know your screen reader's speaking rate (verbosity setting)? High, medium, low? No. its default. 

-   About yourself: I am redoing my kitchen. I don't know about how fun it is. 

Discovery
---------

### Internet searching for a location

During our time together, we'll mostly be focused on finding VA locations online.

-   Can you tell me of a recent time when you used the internet to find the location of a place that you needed to visit? Examples of places are you talking about websites? It will let me that I am in NY, okay that helps but where am I in NY. I need exactly where I am looking at, it only tells me what city I am in.

-   Has it been helpful: not really, I use landmarks to guide me but at night it is useless. I have to operate in the daytime or I cant see them. I have spent hours in the evening struggling to get home and I don't know where I am and the phone wasn't helpful because it will tell me I am in Brooklyn. When you ask people how to get somewhere they think you are trying to attack them or mentally ill. Thinking back it was scary, I got on a bus and it was a twilight zone, the phone didn't help at all. 

-   Next step: if I know exactly where I am I can map out where I need to go to get to where I am getting or how far away I am.

-   How would you do that: that's a good question. Generally if I have gone before since a child I use to bike over the city. It wasn't until I learned how to drive, I relied on landmarks. You cannot mistake the empire state building and you can tell exactly which directions you are going from that. I use them because I know where I am going or if I am by the Rockefeller center I know where everything is. Another is the public library, no issues getting around from here. I use it to know where I need to be or where I need to go. If I am their I can get anywhere.

-   Looking for directions: I would try to dictate it form the phone. It might tell you that you are 200 ft away or a quarter of the mile away. I know when I am in a cab it will say you have arrived or you hear music but my phone doesn't do that. It would be helpful like you did you are so many feet away keep going to the left or right. Or go back 300 ft. 

-   Could you tell me about the last time you searched for a VA location? Wow. I have asked how far is 23rd street from my location and it told me I was 6. Something miles from Manhattan VA.

-   You knew exact location: right. It will tell me the 6 miles from me, I didn't realize it was that close. 

-   Have you ever used the VA.gov website? No I have not. I have never used va.gov website ever. I am not a member of myhealthevet either. Telling someone to go to the site doesn't help, what helps is the someone being like here is the va.gov site and let me show you the features by going here or clicking here. There has been no tutorial. Telling me to go to my HealtheVet  is like what. If you have someone spend time with us I am sure there is a lot of infomration there. Telling me to there isnt enough, what am I looking for. If there is important information you want me to unearth, guiding me in that direction then I can learn why you want me to go to that site. By telling me I can go to my HealtheVet, most guys shrug their shoulders. That's not enough information. You need to sit down with people and show them and maybe they will use it more. VA spends millions of dollars on software. It's like an f35 in my house, they say there you have it good luck. Now what. A high tech piece of equipment but how do I use it. I have a guy that is blind and he has found some features of it. it you develop a program there are thousands of people putting the program together. If we don't have a guide than who cares about the equipment. We need someone to instruct us because we wont know how to use it or the features if not shown. 

TASKS
-----

### Task 1

#### Getting to 'Find a VA location'

Next, I'm going to ask you to complete a task.

1.  Could you please find your nearest VA? If I didn't know where the VA is, which is awkward because I know both of them. Assuming I don't know where they are at all one of the things I would do is call and ask. I am trying to put me in those shoes. I could always 311 to ask because they deal with he buildings or if my computer were working I would google nearest va and boom it would give me the locations. Or I could as Siri where the nearest va is. It would give me a selection, 23rd street. I cant do it on the phone with you on it right now. It wont work. No, it wont work while we are on. If we were not in session I would ask where the closest Veterans hospital is, then it would let me get directions or call.

-   If they use, Google, ask them: Dictating it is problematic. I have a wireless keyboard because the little screen at the bottom is letters and numbers. The ones that are good at this they can go through to spell it or dictate it to say nearest va hospital in NY. You have a number of options there.

-   External keyboard with the phone: I have. 

-   Could you do that today: I could use my wireless keyboard. It's a lot easier for me. The keyboard is connecting right now. The Bluetooth is amazing. 

-   Follow up with: "How about on VA.gov, how might you find your nearest VA?" I have no idea I have never been here before.  Keep page to content, (reading page) There is a search field right there so I would go there and type whatever I am trying to find. That would be my go to spot. The search field would help me navigate to where I want to go. Mental clinic. I went to the mental health clinic and it brought me right here. Is that helpful. 

### Task 2

#### Using 'Find a VA location' near current location

[SEARCH]

Next, I'm going to walk us through a scenario. I'd like you to imagine that you've just moved to where you live today and you're looking for a dermatologist at your nearest VA. You can pretend that you don't know where that is.

1.  How might you do that on this page? It is telling me to call to get services, talks about COVID, answers questions about COVID, COVID chatbot, use my location button, facility type, service type, search button. So you want me to type something in there. Oh this is to find the facilities, view map. Hold on. Brooklyn new York  facility type, there are 8 items on this list to pick from. Service type let me see. I put in Brooklyn NY. 

2.  Did it say anything: use my location button, finding location okay. it has my location. What do I type in there.

3.  Is it asking for more information other than location: it is saying facility type. It says please choose a facility type.

4.  What happened when you tried to choose one: it has use my location button, it has my city, state, postal code. Then please choose facility type, service type. 

5.  Did it allow you to choose a facility type: it has the search button, so press that? 

6.  Go ahead and try: it has choose a facility type. Okay so view map, share. So its 1 of 8. I would double tap on health and all VA health services. 

Post-Task Interview
-------------------

1.  If you had a magic wand and could fix one thing about the features you interacted with today, what would it be? Something simple like what are you looking for, for me it would be dermatologist, Pharmacy. You know straightforward and to the point. 

2.  How would it work, where would it be: if I were to go to search and in the field it would search and or what are you looking for exactly. By that phrase they would know they are looking for blank, then a fill in blank. Search means a lot of things to different people. If It is direct. 

Those are all the questions that I had for you today.

-   Do you have any questions for me or is there anything else that you think that I should know?

Thank-You and Closing
---------------------
