products/ask-va/design/Fields, options and labels/Location and postal code.md, before:

# Location of residence and postal code

Last updated by @tygindraux: April 26, 2024

The rules are described in the following sections:
- [Guardianship and VR&E](#guardianship-and-vre)
- [Education](#education)
- [Health care](#health-care)

## Guardianship and VR&E
`IF CATEGORY`
- Guardianship, custodianship or fiduciary issues
- Veteran Readiness and Employment

`AND TOPIC ≠` Other

---

### About myself

#### Flow 1.1
`AND` About myself
`AND` I'm the Veteran
`THEN` **collect Veteran’s location of residence**
`&& ALSO IF residence is =` CA, NY, PA, or TX
`THEN` **collect Veteran’s postal code**


| `AND`                | `AND`            | `THEN`                                    | `&& ALSO IF Residence =` | `THEN`                       |
| ------------------ | --------------- | --------------------------------------- | ---------------------- | -------------------------- |
| About myself | I'm the Veteran | **Collect Veteran’s location of residence** | CA, NY, PA, or TX      | **Collect Veteran’s postal code** |


#### Flow 1.2
`AND` About myself
`AND` I'm a family member of a Veteran
`THEN` **collect family member’s location of residence**
`&& ALSO IF residence is =` CA, NY, PA, or TX
`THEN` **collect family member's postal Code**

| `AND`                | `AND`                              | `THEN`                          | `&& ALSO IF Residence =` |`THEN`                                |
| ------------------ | -------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------- | ---------------------- | -------------------------------------- |
| About myself | I'm a family member of a Veteran | **Collect family member’s location of residence** | CA, NY, PA, or TX      | **Collect family member postal code** |

---

### About someone else

#### Flow 2.1
`AND` About someone else
`AND` I'm the Veteran
`THEN` **collect Veteran’s location of residence**
`&& ALSO IF residence is =` CA, NY, PA, or TX
`THEN`** collect Veteran’s zip code**

| `AND`                        | `AND`             | `THEN`                                    | `&& ALSO IF Residence =` | `THEN`                       |
| -------------------------- | --------------- | --------------------------------------- | ---------------------- | -------------------------- |
| Someone else's VA benefits | I'm the Veteran | **Collect Veteran’s location of residence** | CA, NY, PA, or TX      | **Collect Veteran’s zip code** |

#### Flow 2.2.1
`AND` Someone else's VA benefits
`AND` I'm a family member of a Veteran
`AND` I'm the `role` of the Veteran
`AND question IS about` the Veteran
`THEN` **collect Veteran’s location of residence**
`&& ALSO IF residence is =` CA, NY, PA, or TX
`THEN` **collect Veteran’s zip code**

| `AND`                        | `AND`                              | `AND`                         | `AND question IS about` | `THEN`                            | `&& ALSO IF Residence =` | `THEN`                       |
| -------------------------- | -------------------------------- | --------------------------- | --------------------- | ------------------------------- | ---------------------- | -------------------------- |
| Someone else's VA benefits | I'm a family member of a Veteran | I'm the role of the Veteran | The Veteran           | **Collect Veteran’s location of residence** | CA, NY, PA, or TX      | **Collect Veteran’s zip code** |


#### Flow 2.2.2
`AND` Someone else's VA benefits
`AND` I'm a family member of a Veteran
`AND` I'm the `family_role` of the Veteran
`AND question IS about` Someone else
`THEN` **collect family member’s location of residence**
`&& ALSO IF residence is =` CA, NY, PA, or TX
`THEN` **collect family member’s zip code**

| `AND`                        | `AND`                              | `AND`                                 | `AND question IS about` | `THEN`                                          | `&& ALSO IF Residence =` | `THEN`                             |
| -------------------------- | -------------------------------- | ----------------------------------- | --------------------- | --------------------------------------------- | ---------------------- | -------------------------------- |
| Someone else's VA benefits | I'm a family member of a Veteran | I'm the family_role  of the Veteran | Someone else          | **Collect family member’s location of residence** | CA, NY, PA, or TX      | **Collect family member’s postal code** |

#### Flow 2.3
`AND` Someone else's VA benefits
`AND` I'm a connected to the Veteran through my work
`AND`  `work_role` 
`AND question is about` The Veteran
`THEN` **collect submitter’s location of residence**
`&& ALSO IF residence is =` CA, NY, PA, or TX
`THEN` **collect submitter’s postal code**

| `AND`                        | `AND`                                            | `AND`       | `AND question IS about`         | `THEN`                                      | `&& ALSO IF Residence =` | `THEN`                         |
| -------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------- | --------- | ----------------------------- | ----------------------------------------- | ---------------------- | ---------------------------- |
| Someone else’s VA benefits | I'm a connected to the Veteran through my work | work_role | The Veteran | **Collect submitter’s location of residence** | CA, NY, PA, or TX      | **Collect submitter’s postal code** |


---

### A general question

#### Flow 3.1
`AND` It’s a general question
`THEN` **collect submitter’s location of residence**
`&& ALSO IF residence is =` CA, NY, PA, or TX
`THEN` **collect submitter’s zip code**

| `AND`                     | `THEN`                                      | `&& ALSO IF Residence =` | `THEN`                         |
| ----------------------- | ----------------------------------------- | ---------------------- | ---------------------------- |
| A general question | **Collect submitter’s location of residence** | CA, NY, PA, or TX      | **Collect submitter’s postal code** |

Commit message:

Update Location and postal code.md
Added rule about contact preference. Use rules only if phone or email is the contact preferences. Else if U.S. Mail is selected, do not use the location and postal code flow.

products/ask-va/design/Fields, options and labels/Location and postal code.md, after:

# Location of residence and postal code

Last updated by @t-michaud: April 26, 2024
 
The rules are described in the following sections:
- [Guardianship and VR&E](#guardianship-and-vre)
- [Education](#education)
- [Health care](#health-care)

## Guardianship and VR&E
`IF CATEGORY`
- Guardianship, custodianship or fiduciary issues
- Veteran Readiness and Employment

`AND TOPIC ≠` Other

---

### Contact preference
`IF contact preference =` Phone `OR` Email

Continue to with determining whose location of residence and zip code to collect.

`ELSE IF contact preference =` U.S. Mail

Skip this section.

_The location and zip code are collected in the **Address component** and replace the **location of residence & zip code component** flow._

---

### About myself

#### Flow 1.1
`AND` About myself
`AND` I'm the Veteran
`THEN` **collect Veteran’s location of residence**
`&& ALSO IF residence is =` CA, NY, PA, or TX
`THEN` **collect Veteran’s postal code**


| `AND`                | `AND`            | `THEN`                                    | `&& ALSO IF Residence =` | `THEN`                       |
| ------------------ | --------------- | --------------------------------------- | ---------------------- | -------------------------- |
| About myself | I'm the Veteran | **Collect Veteran’s location of residence** | CA, NY, PA, or TX      | **Collect Veteran’s postal code** |


#### Flow 1.2
`AND` About myself
`AND` I'm a family member of a Veteran
`THEN` **collect family member’s location of residence**
`&& ALSO IF residence is =` CA, NY, PA, or TX
`THEN` **collect family member's postal Code**

| `AND`                | `AND`                              | `THEN`                          | `&& ALSO IF Residence =` |`THEN`                                |
| ------------------ | -------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------- | ---------------------- | -------------------------------------- |
| About myself | I'm a family member of a Veteran | **Collect family member’s location of residence** | CA, NY, PA, or TX      | **Collect family member postal code** |

---

### About someone else

#### Flow 2.1
`AND` About someone else
`AND` I'm the Veteran
`THEN` **collect Veteran’s location of residence**
`&& ALSO IF residence is =` CA, NY, PA, or TX
`THEN`** collect Veteran’s zip code**

| `AND`                        | `AND`             | `THEN`                                    | `&& ALSO IF Residence =` | `THEN`                       |
| -------------------------- | --------------- | --------------------------------------- | ---------------------- | -------------------------- |
| Someone else's VA benefits | I'm the Veteran | **Collect Veteran’s location of residence** | CA, NY, PA, or TX      | **Collect Veteran’s zip code** |

#### Flow 2.2.1
`AND` Someone else's VA benefits
`AND` I'm a family member of a Veteran
`AND` I'm the `role` of the Veteran
`AND question IS about` the Veteran
`THEN` **collect Veteran’s location of residence**
`&& ALSO IF residence is =` CA, NY, PA, or TX
`THEN` **collect Veteran’s zip code**

| `AND`                        | `AND`                              | `AND`                         | `AND question IS about` | `THEN`                            | `&& ALSO IF Residence =` | `THEN`                       |
| -------------------------- | -------------------------------- | --------------------------- | --------------------- | ------------------------------- | ---------------------- | -------------------------- |
| Someone else's VA benefits | I'm a family member of a Veteran | I'm the role of the Veteran | The Veteran           | **Collect Veteran’s location of residence** | CA, NY, PA, or TX      | **Collect Veteran’s zip code** |


#### Flow 2.2.2
`AND` Someone else's VA benefits
`AND` I'm a family member of a Veteran
`AND` I'm the `family_role` of the Veteran
`AND question IS about` Someone else
`THEN` **collect family member’s location of residence**
`&& ALSO IF residence is =` CA, NY, PA, or TX
`THEN` **collect family member’s zip code**

| `AND`                        | `AND`                              | `AND`                                 | `AND question IS about` | `THEN`                                          | `&& ALSO IF Residence =` | `THEN`                             |
| -------------------------- | -------------------------------- | ----------------------------------- | --------------------- | --------------------------------------------- | ---------------------- | -------------------------------- |
| Someone else's VA benefits | I'm a family member of a Veteran | I'm the family_role  of the Veteran | Someone else          | **Collect family member’s location of residence** | CA, NY, PA, or TX      | **Collect family member’s postal code** |

#### Flow 2.3
`AND` Someone else's VA benefits
`AND` I'm a connected to the Veteran through my work
`AND`  `work_role` 
`AND question is about` The Veteran
`THEN` **collect submitter’s location of residence**
`&& ALSO IF residence is =` CA, NY, PA, or TX
`THEN` **collect submitter’s postal code**

| `AND`                        | `AND`                                            | `AND`       | `AND question IS about`         | `THEN`                                      | `&& ALSO IF Residence =` | `THEN`                         |
| -------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------- | --------- | ----------------------------- | ----------------------------------------- | ---------------------- | ---------------------------- |
| Someone else’s VA benefits | I'm a connected to the Veteran through my work | work_role | The Veteran | **Collect submitter’s location of residence** | CA, NY, PA, or TX      | **Collect submitter’s postal code** |


---

### A general question

#### Flow 3.1
`AND` It’s a general question
`THEN` **collect submitter’s location of residence**
`&& ALSO IF residence is =` CA, NY, PA, or TX
`THEN` **collect submitter’s zip code**

| `AND`                     | `THEN`                                      | `&& ALSO IF Residence =` | `THEN`                         |
| ----------------------- | ----------------------------------------- | ---------------------- | ---------------------------- |
| A general question | **Collect submitter’s location of residence** | CA, NY, PA, or TX      | **Collect submitter’s postal code** |
