# Veteran Identification Card v2 research

1/2/2018, 13:00 Eastern Time

*Moderator comments in italic*

---

1. Background
   1. Served in Navy. Separated 1993

*Aware of other forms of ID? proof of service / discharge status*

1. Only the cards issued by VA if you're going to be receiving health benefits (Veteran Health ID card)

*Do you have a Veteran Health ID card?*

1. No.
2. *Do you know of folks who do?*
   1. Yes

*Experience with VIC*

1. Initial rollout was rocky. I'm frustrated because I'm an employee of _, and I'm a vet. I "run into an infinite loop". not sure if it's due to saturation of other users on the site, problem in the code. Finding my way around was very frustrating

*What website did you go to to start the process?*

1. It's an external vendor. Let me see if I can find the email. It was put out in a press release that there was a new Veteran ID Card (application website) available

*How far along did you get in the application process?*

1. It varied. (tried multiple times). "What did I do wrong?" It would say "you can't use this site to obtain a card. It was very confusing". 
2. *What did you find confusing?*
3. Once I got into the site… let me see. Had to go through a series of clicks, reading two different buttons I think. Now _ an email
4. *At what point did you get stuck? what message did you get?*
   1. Sometimes I did not get to the verification of service. Other times I would get through. "okay, we found you, we can verify that you're in the system". Right after that, when I tried to finalize the request for the ID card, the site would say "sorry, you can't use this site to get an ID card." It would send me to another site, but it was the same site.
   2. I wasn't sure in the end if it was going to be processed. Next time I went to the site, it said "we're sorry. we can't do this right now". The system had to be fixed. I had no idea if it was going to be processed in the end. I'd be notified in four to six weeks, but there was nothing else.
   3. *You did finally get all the way through then?*
      1. Yes.

*When you came to the site, why were you interested in a VIC*

1. Easier than carrying around copies of your DD214 in your truck when you go around to health centers. Not sure what I would need it for exactly. Something like the Money(?) in Veterans Program. I went to sign up for the DNA testing that they're doing for everyone. Their system was down from a remote location because it was in a bus, and they couldn't tell who I was. I had my DD214, but if I had my VIC, they could have known who I was

*Other benefits you're aware of?*

1. I know there were special deals for veterans. Not sure if there would be _… outreach... An ID card would be another way to get in touch with veterans who are not actively receiving care

*If there were another kind of card that could offer the same benefits, would you be interested in that?*

1. If it were issued by the state, that would be nice as long as it can work for everything. One less thing to carry around. Nice that Wal Mart or Sam's Club can accept my ID for discounts

*Are you aware of the requirements?*

1. Not 100% sure. probably the same as everything else. 3 years or 18 months of service with an honorable discharge

*Other times you've applied for another form of government ID*

1. Driver's license - you just go to the DMV and get your picture taken, and there you go. Just sitting in line is the bad part.
   1. *Have you ever been able to do that online?*
      1. I haven't stayed in one place long enough to have to do that.
2. *Veterans can log on through DS Logon or ID.me. Did you use one of those?*
   1. I believe I used ID.me. But I was confused. Why was I going out to a commercial site when I was applying for veterans' benefits.
   2. *Do you think you should have to log into an external website to get a Veterans' ID?*
      1. It's complicated. One of the nice things about it was that it was able to find me in the system.
   3. *If you had to apply again, would you have any concerns about going to a public facing site where you didn't have to log in?*
      1. I'm not sure how it would tell who I am. Is it recording my IP address? How am I being notified?
      2. *(additional explanation) Would it make you uncomfortable?*
         1. No, would be fine as long as it's a government website. Just don't want my information sold
3. *Would you be willing to submit your DD214 as a part of the application*
   1. It's difficult. You don't always have a scanner, don't always work in an office. the best part about ID.me was that it knew who I was. Think I used my driver's license as a photo. Uploading a photo was a challenge. For some people who are not as tech savvy - that would be a challenge.
4. *Would it have made you more comfortable going through ID.me if you knew up front that it would be able to find you?*
   1. Not really. I was just uncomfortable up front because I wasn't sure who I was giving my information to
5. *If there were an error in the process, how would you like them to get a hold of you and notify*
   1. Well, they have my contact info. It would have to be pretty egregious to have to get in contact. I wouldn't know who to call.
   2. *(clarification) - if they had to contact you*
      1. It should say what I have to do next. They told me there were challenges getting my pictures. If I had to get a DD214 out, might be challenges. I think I had a digital copy. It just threw me off at the end of the process because I thought it was a commercial site. I think it did everything correctly
6. *How long did you expect the process from when you started to when you hit "submit"?*
   1. I had no expectations, but I was hopeful for 5 minutes and done. It would have been nice if I had known in advance there were all these picture requirements. I looped through and then found out "hey, you need to get some pictures and take some scans." I was annoyed.
   2. *Any other info that would have been helpful to know up front?*
      1. Just to say "part of this process - we're going to show you… there are some advertisers that are going to be available to you after this" just so you don't think you're phished or anything like that.
7. *How long do you expect it to take from approval to receiving your ID card?*
   1. According to the site, it says a month, but I'm expecting 3
   2. *If a VSO or a local office could help you with your application, would you be interested in that?*
      1. Absolutely. I think that should be part of the standard process, if you go through eligibility or any other process
8. *On a 1-5 scale, how important to you is it that your card indicates you were in the Navy?*
   1. I think that's a 5. we take pride in where you're from
9. *1-5 scale, how important is a photo of you?*
   1. 4. No fake cards. People can wave a card, but it's official government identification.
10. *When you uploaded a photo, how did you do it?*
   1. I think I used my government ID and took a photo of it. I had some difficulties. It took me 2 tries to get it sized correctly, and that was a challenge. I was trying to upload one. It was too many megapixels, so I had to find another one and crop it down. It was a hassle. Not everyone has passport photos lying around, and if you do, it's not electronic, so you have to take a picture of a picture.
11. *If you had to submit a passport photo, how easy or difficult would it be to get it taken? 1-5*
    1. 1. I would have thrown in the towel at that point.
12. *If you had to take a photo that met passport photo requirements? 1-5*
    1. I did that. But it was too large (in filesize). I followed the instructions. Shoulder-up. I even got a seafoam green or blue background. It was too dense. Too many megapixels. It was hard. It didn't work.
13. *What do you think the VIC will look like?*
    1. I have no idea. They had a little photo at the bottom of what it was going to look like, but I don't know what it's going to look like in the end. Think it was just a demo card.
14. *Exploring a digital card. Have you ever heard about or used a digital ID card?*
    1. No. I've used plane tickets and things, but you still have to pull out your ID. I'm trying to think. Maybe in the long run it would be useful. I can't think of any apps, benefits where it would be beneficial.
15. *Woud you have any interest in a digital ID card?*
    1. I think there's value in that. It may not be fully realized at this point. As a backup too. I'm not exactly sure if it's going to count as a form of ID. It is a government ID card, but I'm not sure what else it would do. would it count as an official form of ID? It should all be going that way. It is going that way, I'm sure. I have a hunting license, and I can pull up my hunting license on my phone. Why should I have to pull out a physical license. It would be nice if you could do that with a driver's license. _ my phone - I never leave home without it.
16. *If we were to produce a digital VIC, would you still be interested in having a plastic ID card?*
    1. It's good to have both. Not everyone has phones. My dad, he has a flip phone still. There's still value added. You never know when you're not going to have a phone or your phone gets destroyed. It could be valuable.
17. *other questions / comments about the VIC?*
    1. Since you started this call 30 minutes ago, I submitted my email address to the VIC site. It said thanks for submitting the info, but nothing has come through (email).
    2. *If you were able to have some sort of progress indicator at points along the process like "we're working on it", "it's been sent to the printer", how frequently would you want communication?*
       1. If it takes a month, I'd want to hear in week 1 or week 2, "everything looks great. You should receive your card within 10 business days". I think that would be acceptable and helpful
