# Veteran Identification Card v2 research

1/3/2018, 9:00 Eastern Time

*Moderator comments in italic*

---

1. Let me tell you my problem… I tried to go to normal website for a normal veteran ID. There's nothing wrong with me physically or mentally (officially). In order to get a VA card… I have to keep flashing my driver's license that says "veteran". Needed to present a _ (disability note?) It's a great idea with a VA card. The things I see at Lowes and Home Depot. They want a card…. I tried to go to the VA to get an ID card, but they don't give ID cards. They give benefit cards. A guy said "you were in the navy, right? just claim 10% disability for hearing loss". But I don't have hearing loss. 

*Background*

1. Served in Navy. Separated. 3-4 of us joined for 3 years. I served a little over 2 because I was going to college, separated July 25, 1968.

*Are you aware of other forms of ID to show proof of service or discharge status to access benefits?*

1. No. I heard if you served 20 something years… you get retired or active duty.

*Experience trying to apply*

1. It's been a pain. I got online and did everything. I got my inquiry number from the dept of VA. Did 3 of those. I talked to a fellow on the phone while I was online. He tried to help me. I don't think I signed up for "dears" or "iris". I can't put in my service number. They want only numbers not letters, but mine starts with B. Let me give it to you. Maybe you can help me down the line. [service number, redacted] . That's where I got stuck. The guy on the phone said I needed to get into "dears" or "iris". I was stopped at the service ID number. it wasn't complete because I couldn't fill in that blank.
2. *were you getting an error that it was numerical only?*
   1. Yes. It stopped me cold, and I couldn't process and sign up
   2. *What point were you at? (when you got stuck applying)*
      1. I did somehow get an ID.me. Yes, a little green card. I got it on the website. doesn't really say anything except name, phone, date of birth, verified on vets.gov
3. *Anything you found confusing about instructions to apply?*
   1. No. Very simple.
4. *Did you start at vets.gov?*
   1. Yes.
5. I was kind of amazed. Thought government was trying to do things right, but they didn't have a genius on board to do it (allow me to submit a service number with a letter in it). They just need to get their computer genius to change the site to allow that.
   1. Rollout timeline: november, then December, then december 15. think it's still not ready, but that's just part of life.
   2. I just want to be able to flash it (the VIC) at the stores for a veterans' discount. That's the only reason. I have my dd214. Got my Georgia ID that says veteran at the bottom. when I got out, I made the good choice of making a copy of my photo that says honorable discharge, and people like that a lot.
      1. Most people say okay and accept it, but most I have to argue and they say they need a certain card and point to the card. Only way for something they honor is if you're active duty or retired (served over 20 years) or have something wrong with you from the VA (disability). But I don't. It's not my fault I didn't get shot. I didn't take a bullet, but I was ready - I was in harm's way. A few places know me by now and just give me the 10% discount. 
6. *What do you need to be able to qualify*
   1. Think you just need to get signed up. one of the guys said you just have to have other than dishonorable discharge. don't know the reasons you might get a general discharge. If anyone gets a dishonorable discharge, I don't think they should be qualified for the card, don't think they should call themselves veterans even though they might be. but that's just my opinion
7. *Other times you've applied for or renewed a government photo id?*
   1. Only other thing that had to do with my veteran status. Driver's license. Took my dd214 and a full size copy of my honorable discharge, but they didn't need that, just the dd214. a few days later I was approved for my veterans' driver's license. I probably just took it in (to the DMV) when i was going to get my driver's license. They've been doing it for a while. Every year when I renew it, they just look at the veteran status on my old license and renew it. 
8. *think you should log in through a site (like ID.me) to apply for a VIC?*
   1. Sure. that's no big deal. They should be able to take a copy or I should be able to mail my dd214 somewhere. One of the fellows said they wouldn't accept them by email because it's a protected or classified document. Your SSN is on it. They don't want that stuff going through the internet. Asked if they had a place where he could mail a copy, and the fellow said no, not at this time. I like the way you can upload a picture. when y'all do get it straight, it's neat. I have a photo of myself, and I'm wearing a Navy t-shirt, and it's the perfect picture to put on there.
9. *Any concerns about not having to log in on a public facing site?*
   1. I wouldn't have a problem with that. I have a username and ID to log in anywhere, but if you want to do it through the mail, that's fine. people should be able to prove that they are actual veterans with honorable discharge
10. *Other information that would be really useful for you to know up front*
   1. No, I was just following the prompts, and everything was great. Nothing aside from the issue with my service number. I even tried a little b or a capital B. 
   2. I'll mail people anything. I've been this long without a VA ID. If I get one in the next 2 - 8 months, that's fine, no big deal.
11. *If you learned that the VA could verify your eligibility for a VIC faster if you had logged in before submitting the application, or if we did it another way where you didn't have to log in, would one or the other of those (methods) be of interest to you?* 
    1. Sure, any way that's easier for y'all. I'll just follow the prompts for whatever y'all want me to do either way
12. *If you knew that you could track the status of your ID if you had logged in beforehand, would that have been of interest?*
    1. Well, it wouldn't have mattered if they said "you should receive your ID by mail in 2-10 weeks". I wouldn't worry about it. I'd just wait until it showed up in the mail.
13. *At what point in the application process would you want to receive notifications from the VA like "your application has been successfully submitted"?*
    1. Yeah, that would be perfect, when everything is done right, and it says your application has been submitted and accepted, and thanks for the uploaded picture, and you should have your ID in whatever amount of time. that would be fine.
    2. *Would you want to know if the application wasn't sent or anything like that?*
       1. Well, it doesn't matter, but if I get a quick email or phone call saying "you should receive your card in _ days. then if it didn't come in that amount of time, I could call and figure out what's going on."
14. *how long did you expect it to take - the process online*
    1. 6-10 minutes to get it submitted
15. *How long would you expect it to take from submitting (after we fix the service number issue) to getting the card in hand*
    1. A month or less
16. *VSO or local VA office - to help you complete the process -how interested would you be from that option?*
    1. Not at all. I'm not that far from Atlanta, but you have to get into Atlanta traffic into a VA office. It's 20 miles from me but with heavy traffic. With technology today, I'd just as soon stay out of that damn traffic. I'm actually intelligent enough to get through it with the prompting and the help of sweet people like you.
17. *How important is it to indicate the branch of the armed service you were in?*
    1. Would be okay to say navy, but if it just said US military service, that would be fine. My whole family is military…. My dad and his brothers. My daughter went through west point and did five years. the boys said I was a wuss and did Army. They did ROTC through their respective colleges. did their four years and got out after college. Not necessary to say navy, but if they see the photo with the T-shirt that says Navy, it will be quite clear. that would be fine.
18. *How important is it to include a photo on the card*
    1. I think it's important to have the photo on the ID. It would be nice to require someone to send a driver's license photo in the application process. If I were really crooked, I could send in an application unless you make sure the person has a valid dd214. I think it would be more important to the store people than it is to me - to keep cheaters out of it. It's not a requirement. i would definitely like it
19. *Your photo wearing your Navy t-shirt - how did you get it into the site*
    1. I didn't get that far. I have the photo ready, but it's not uploaded to anything. It's on my desktop. just waiting to be done.
    2. *How did you take the photo - digital camera?*
       1. After I retired, I was at an eagle scout event. I had a navy t-shirt on. there were ships around. They cropped it real well where the part that you see is my head and my face and the t-shirt saying US navy. Someone sent it from Sea Base. There were 30 pictures from our trip, and I just put it on the laptop.
20. *How hard would it be to upload the photo to a website*
    1. Very easy. As long as y'all's stuff works, it's easy for me to upload a photo.
21. *how easy or hard would it be for you to take a passport photo?*
    1. Oh yeah, we've all done that. you'd have to pay a fair amount for it $40 - 80 or something. go to the post office, let them take an official photo. I have a passport with my photo on it. wouldn't know how to get it to you kids.
    2. Could scan it on my scanner / printer here, and it would have all the info from the passport on it.
22. *(clarification) If you had to take your own passport photo?*
    1. With my kids and my wife and the white wall we have in the laundry room, no problem.
23. *what do you think the ID cards will look like?*
    1. Something in big letters: veteran ID. After that, service, picture, served honorably in the US military. Whatever you guys want to do to make it cool.
24. *Digital ID cards?*
    1. Haven't heard anything about it. No, that would work for 90% of people in the country. All my kids have smart phones. We have flip phones. We don't need it. we're both retired. we pay $8.50 for our service. have a GPS device in the car for navigation. I wouldn't be able to use it on my flip phone. It doesn't text. It just makes and takes calls.
25. *Other questions or comments about veteran ID card?*
    1. Whoever came up with it did a really good job. I like the way our current government is trying to take care of veterans. I just hope people don't screw us over and try to take benefits they don't deserve. Everyone is trying to do that anyway. good thing we pay our taxes - we have to support the useless.
    2. I think most people could fake a dd214. If you have records, you could always check my service number and know that I'm real. I think it's okay in the process to require uploading a license. I don't think that's a bad idea as well, and the dd214. I have guardian angels protecting me, so I'm not worried about someone stealing my SSN.
    3. The people that are doing this - it's fantastic. And I really appreciate it. Veterans appreciate that. It's nice that the closest day to veterans day in church, i get to stand up, and lots of places give you a discount and that's nice.