# Veteran Identification Card v2 research

01/03/2018, 15:00 Eastern Time

*Moderator comments in italic*

---

## Section 0: Warm-Up Questions

- *What branch of the military did you serve in?* 
  - Army
- *When did you retire or separate?* 
  - separated december, 1984
- *Are you aware of any forms of veteran identification, such as something that might show proof of service, discharge status, or Veteran benefits?* 
  - Only thing I've been aware of up to this point is carrying around an image of my dd214
  - *If YES: Which ones?* 
  - *Any others?* 
  - *Are you aware of Veteran Health ID Cards, Veteran designation on State ID cards or licenses, etc.)* 
    - No, haven't heard of that
  - *Do you have any of these forms of identification?* 
  - *Do you know anyone who does?* 

## Section 1: Value of VIC (User Voice) 
- *Tell me about your experience trying to apply for a Veteran ID Card* 
  - Very pleased to find out this was being made available. Haven't had many opportunities to take advantage of my veteran status. Lowe's hardware - they promote their appreciation to veterans a lot. They have parking spaces designated to purple heart recipients. also found out they give a 10% discount to veterans. Then I found out that there was an actual ID card process that was just being rolled out. Went to vets.gov. It was so incredibly frustrating to find where to go to begin. Then after that, the actual application process. The website is so notoriously going back and forth and ultimately in the end it wasn't successful. I went online looking at blogs and forums and found there were many vets who had the same frustration and were never successful. I haven't heard of anyone being successful with the process. Me being persistent as I am, kept trying day after day, week after week. The site said "there's a problem. There's a lot of interest. We'll let you know when the site is back up and functional". You guys reached out which is great. I want to participate. Spent 21 years working in tech. Went through my own frustrations building websites and building usability into process. With that in mind, I'm happy to help. most importantly, getting something out there for the benefit of veterans. I hope I can in some way contribute to something that is a benefit to veterans through providing this feedback.
    - *Trouble getting started - what steps did you take?*
      - This was a little while ago. Not 100% on my memory, but I'll try. Don't remember where it was, either an article - I'm certain it was an article published in a news site or something > I clicked on the link and it took me directly to the page to apply. I actualy wanted to go through the process before this call earlier, and it just goes to the website that says "you've reached the ID card application. we've received a great response and are working on…" there's no way to apply right now - only a way to submit my email for them to contact me when it's available. Like I said, clicked on a link that went directly to the application. there was an error at the end. at one point, I got the spinning donut forever. when I tried to go back to the home site vets.gov, I couldn't quickly and easily find anything there on the top level. I did notice further down on the top page there were a number of links that were down there. My opinion is that if there is something new that was being rolled out (in this case VIC), I thought that would be advertised somewhere prominent. Make it prominent if it's something you want to advertise and get a lot of traction on it. As it turned out, you didn't want to get a whole lot of traffic since the site went down. Me trying again and again, trying through different links thinking maybe there was a different page I could try.
  - *What website did you go to to start?* 
  - *Were you able to complete the application process? (If NO: At what point in the application did you get stuck?)* 
  - *Was there anything that you found confusing about the application instructions?* 
  - *What else do you want me to know about your experience?*  
- *So, when you came to the website to apply, can you tell me why you were interested in having a Veteran's ID card?* 
  - I'm proud of having served. When I was first dicharged, I took advantage of a lot of benefits, but I haven't done that much throughout the years. I'm a proud veteran, and having that kind of ID card would be nice. Especially if you know about more establishments that have discounts to honor it.
  - *How would having a VIC help you?*
- *Do you think there are advantages that a VA Veteran ID Card offers that other forms of military or veteran ID do not provide?* 
  - That's a really good question. Having the physical individual ID card is more of a nicety than anything else. For practical purposes, we all want to reduce the amount of stuff we carry around, so if there was a designation on my driver's license which I have to carry around anyway, that would satisfy the utility portion absolutely, so I'd probably opt for that.
  - *If YES: What are the advantages?* 
  - *Do you think that the VA Veteran ID Card offers benefits that other Veteran ID cards do not provide? If Yes, what are those benefits?*    
  - *If you found out that another form of Veteran ID, such as a driver's license with a Veteran marking), gave you the same benefits as a VA-issued Veteran's ID card, would you still be interested in a VA issued Veteran ID card?* 
- *Can you tell me what the requirements are to get a Veteran's ID card?* 
  - OMG, like I said. I don't recall specifically. I think there was some "prove your status" or whatever. There may have been an upload for the DD214, don't completely remember

## Section 2: Logging in
- *Can you talk about any other times when you have applied for or renewed a government-issued photo ID, such as a driver's license or a passport? How did you do this? What steps did you take?* 

  - OMG. The majority of these things are relatively automated these days. My driver's license - I get a notification in snail mail and you just go to the website, put in your info, and boom, it's there. I'm already in the system in Washington (been there for many years), so they have my info. Getting it renewed is quite painless. I enter my license number. It recognizes me, knows my address. Pretty quick and easy. Get it in the mail within a couple of weeks. 
  - Renewing my passport (did it recently). It was a little more tedious as you might imagine. A lot of information that's required. I think that you're able to fill out the form through an editable PDF, and you save it, then print it out and mail it in paper form. It wasn't nearly as cut and dry and easy as getting my driver's license. 
  - *Have you ever done this online?* 
    - Yes, absolutely. 

- *Did you have to login to a website to apply?*

  - I think I did create an account. Not 100%. I first tried without creating an account. Not being successful, I went back and created an account. Not sure if there was something to upload the DD214. If there was, I would have uploaded it to create my account. 
  - *prompt about ID.me - does that ring a bell*
    - Yes, that's it. That was a little weird. Yes, I was able to create an account through ID.me
    - *At what point did you get stuck?*
      - At the "submit" step. I filled in everything, but it wasn't able to process


  - *Anything else confusing about the process?*
    - No
  - *Anything else you want me to know about your experience?*
    - No. I've been working in tech for a long time. I work through these things pretty quickly. I didn't have any bad experience other than not being able to complete the process

- *In the current version, Veterans need to login using DS Logon or ID.me to access the application.* 
  - *Do you think you should need to login to a website to apply for a Veteran ID Card?* 
    - Why should I have to do that? Do I need to create another username and password? Why can't the site just manage the user account on its own. Why do I have to go through a third party?
  - *Do you have any concerns about applying for a VIC on a public-facing website, where you do not have to login?*
    - Two different angles. There's the convenience factor of "why can't I just do this as a guest?" But from the practical side, well, it's sensitive info, it's my government information, but I'm okay with having to create an account. I would fully expect to have to create an account. If it were a discount card for whatever, that's just a hassle. 

- *What would you want to know about the application process before you started? What information would be most useful to you?* 

- *Do you have a DS Logon Premium, My HealtheVet Premium, or an ID.me account?* 
  - *If NO: Would you be willing to register for a new web account in order to apply for a VIC, if you knew it would take 10 minutes to do so, and that you would need to verify your identity by uploading a copy of your license or passport?*  

- *Would you be willing to upload a copy of your DD214 as part of the application?* 

  - From the practicality standpoint, I'd expect to have to do so. I'm a veteran, and quite frankly in my circle of vet friends, we do come across all these stolen dollar instances, and it's really frustrating. I want to make sure people can't go and abuse the site, so that makes sense.

- *The VA must obtain proof of identity, proof of military history, and proof of honorable discharge status in order to provide a Veteran ID card.* 
  - *If you learned that the VA could verify your eligibility for a VIC faster during the application process if you logged in before submitting the application, would that be of interest to you?* 
    - That would be useful. It also connects the dots, makes sense that you're using that third party not just as a contractor to manage accounts, but also that it's a process for verification. It does make it easier to accept, yes.
  - *If you learned that you could track the status of your VIC application online if you logged in before submitting the application, would that be of interest to you?*  
    - Absolutely. Being able to track. yep.
  - *If the VA had incorrect information about you in its database that would affect your eligibility for a Veteran ID Card, how could we be most helpful to you in notifying you of that error and helping you correct it?* 
    - Good question. Well, I'd like to think I would get a notification through email or whatever the case. Identifying some contact via phone or through the website, whatever the case may be. and what was it that was incorrect. I would want the ability to correct incorrect info with my records.

- *At what benchmarks in the VIC application process would you want to receive notifications from the VA? (Application submitted, Application received + ID #, Eligibility Verified, Printed Card Sent...other?)*

  - Oh, yes. When I click submit, I would want to get 2 confirmations. One immediately from the website that tells me it was successfully saved and submitted and some text that says you should expect 2 week process or whatever it may be just so I'm not sitting there wondering whether it's out there in the ether. and the second confirmation I would want to get by email.

- *How long do you expect the application process will take from the time you start until you hit submit?* 

  - < 5 minutes

- *How long would you expect it to take between finding out that your VIC application was approved and receiving your Veteran ID Card?*

  - 2 weeks would be completely reasonable. Nobody likes to see the 6-8 weeks timeline. 

- *If a Veteran Service Organization or your local VA office could help you complete your Veteran ID card application if you visited them in person, how interested would you be in that option? Use a scale from 1-5, where 1 is not very interested and 5 is very insterested.* 

  - Me personally, I'm in technology, so I try to do as much in an automated fashion as possible. Every once in a while, it is nice to do a face-to-face and sit down, which I think is important for a number of reasons, but I won't go into those. I wouldn't have done that because the VA locations (downtown Seattle) are not that convenient. I wouldn't expect that the majority of the veteran population, especially the older ones, would be as apt to use online - if they had the opportunity to go into the office, that would be a nice thing for them.

## Section 3: Appearance of Card 
- *On a scale from 1-5, where 1 is the least important and 5 is very important, how important is it to you that your Veteran ID Card  indicates which branch or branches of the Armed Services you served in?* 
  - 4 More importantly, I'm proud to have served as a "veteran". Secondarily, yeah, I have pride in the Army and the things I did in the Army.
- *On a scale from 1-5, where 1 is the least important and 5 is very important, how important is it to you that your Veteran ID Card  features a photo of you?* 
  - 4 It becomes more personal. When people see the picture, they know it's you. It's just more of a personal thing.
- *Have you ever uploaded a print document or photo to a website?* 
  - *Can you tell me more about that experience?* 
    - ​
  - *Using a scale from 1-5 where 1 is very difficult and 5 is very easy, how hard was it for you to do so?*
    - Generally speaking, most sites that require that, it's really easy. there's multiple different processes on the ease of that. There's the web plugin that pops up and says "either drag your image onto this spot" or there's a button that says click to select one of your files.
  - *How did you make the print document or photo digital?* 
    - Yes, Would be easy to scan. I have a scanner, but phones these days have fairly high res cameras. It's easy to snap a picture - as long as it's clear, the resolution should be good enough for the VA to get all the details off of it.
  - *Can you tell me more about how you use that assistive device you mentioned?* 
- *If you had to submit an official passport photo for the VIC application, how easy or difficult would it be for you to get one taken? Use a scale from 1-5 where 1 is very difficult and 5 is very easy.*
  - Already got one taken. At Costco, they charge you $5, so it's really easy these days. I understand that even though people have their phones, people don't always take very good pictures of themselves and certainly not in the format that's required. Would it bother me that there are certain specifications? No, that wouldn't bother me.
- *If you could take your own photo but it still had to meet passport photo standards, how confident do you feel that you could do that? Use a scale from 1-5 where 1 is not very confident and 5 is very confident.*
  - Yes, I do feel confident. That's the other part of it. I could see that leading into a potentially frustrating process. The reason I say that is the photo would have to meet certain specifications - size, from the shoulders up, etc. When people are taking photos of themselves, they're looking at a screen and moving their phones back and forth to get the photo to look right. Would be nice if you could upload the picture and then resize the picture within the frame to get the right sizing through the site. For example, photography websites like where you're ordering prints - they allow for cropping, resizing. If there was a frame that popped up that was the right size and all you had to do was adjust the photo to fit within the frame, that would be so simple for people.

## Section 4: Digital vs Print

- *What do you think a Veteran ID Card will look like?*
  - Think it will look so fantastic that you'll want to show all your friends and family!
- *We're exploring doing a digital card that you'd be able to pull up on your phone (and in theory could get access to much more quickly than a plastic card).*
  - *Have you ever heard about or used a digital ID card?*
    - (Laughs). I use my Starbucks card on my phone. other than that, I haven't heard of anything like that.
  - *Would you be interested in a digital VIC? Do you have any concerns about that?*
    - Sure, I suppose. your phone becomes almost more important than your wallet these days.
  - *Would you still want a plastic card?*
    - Yes because even though I've worked in tech for a very long time, I'm not 100% moved over to a technological way of living my life. There are certain things. I carry around a digital Starbucks card. If for any reason, my phone got corrected or I had to replace my phone, losing my Starbucks card is no big deal. If I lost my digital ID card, that would be more of an issue. Not sure I'm ready to go entirely digital with that.

## Closing Interview

- *Do you have any comments or questions about the Veteran ID Card that we have not yet covered today?*  
  - Really appreciate these questions and listening to my comments and elaborating on it a little bit. I really appreciate that you guys have taken an interest in reaching out to your customers. Setting aside the time like this. Obviously you're busy, but you're taking time out to listen to user and a customer and a veteran. Can't tell you how much I appreciate all of that.
  - Is the website functional now? can I go through the process of applying? or are we still waiting?
  - One suggestion: once you have the site up and running, find some people, veterans or whatever, to test it. Do not test it on your local systems. All too often, I've worked with developers who had all their code working on their local computers and everything worked fantastic, but have it run on other people's laptops or PCs.


