# Veteran Identification Card v2 research

01/03/2018, 17:00 Eastern Time

*Moderator comments in italic*

---

## Section 0: Warm-Up Questions

- *What branch of the military did you serve in?* 

  - Navy

- *When did you retire or separate?* 

  - Separated September 2011

- *Are you aware of any forms of veteran identification, such as something that might show proof of service, discharge status, or Veteran benefits?* 

  - Other than what the VA hospital gives for those who are retired or have medical benefits, that's all I know. Veteran Health ID card


  - *If YES: Which ones?* 
  - *Any others?* 
  - *Are you aware of Veteran Health ID Cards, Veteran designation on State ID cards or licenses, etc.)* 
  - *Do you have any of these forms of identification?* 
    - No. I don't have any health issues.
  - *Do you know anyone who does?* 

## Section 1: Value of VIC (User Voice) 
- *Tell me about your experience trying to apply for a Veteran ID Card* 
  - Attempted to apply first day it opened. Didn't go well at all. took a few tries to get through the authentication process to get through to the website. hadn't used that site before. Once I got through, i was only able to verify my name. any time I hit the next button, it would skip down to the submit button over the rest of the tabs. I know that was version 1. I know they posted they were overloaded with people. Attempted again when it reopened. no problems. go through the verification process much quicker. Didn't finish the process. I had some photos I set aside for my id card and my self photo. didn't know there were additional requirements until I got to the submit section and my photos didn't meet those requirements. That's as far as I got. Didn't submit.
  - Took a long time to get through the ID.me process. Instead of taking me to another site to go to ID.me, it loaded it inside the existing website, so it was slow because there was a lot of other things going on below. I was successful, but it was very time consuming and very unwieldy to use. The slowness was particularly frustrating, and some of the info. It was asking for addresses ten years ago that I had to sit down and dig through and find. I didn't have those memorized anymore.
  - *What website did you go to to start?* 
    - Vets.gov. I had never had a need to use it, but I monitored it through social media and the updates through the news that they were going to be rolling the program out. That's how I found out about the website.
  - *Were you able to complete the application process? (If NO: At what point in the application did you get stuck?)* 
    - No, I got stuck between the two photos. I'm trying to figure out how to take a less detailed photo I guess of my driver's license to submit because of the file size requirement. It sounds like I guess I'll have to go to CVS or something like that and have them take a passport photo since that sounds like the requirements they're giving.
  - *Was there anything that you found confusing about the application instructions?* 
  - *What else do you want me to know about your experience?*  
    - They didn't give you the requirements for photos up front - they only told you later that there were data size requirements. When I took my photo of my driver's license, i took it with my phone and it was larger than they allowed. I took a photo of me sitting in an office chair because it didn't say anything otherwise. But when I got in there later, it said it needed to be on a white background, etc. It didn't give you that info until right before you submitted it. 
    - ID.me worked wonderfully once I got through and got set up - to go through the vets.gov website.
    - Saw a big difference between v1 and v2 of the website
- *So, when you came to the website to apply, can you tell me why you were interested in having a Veteran's ID card?* 
  - *How would having a VIC help you?*
    - Biggest thing for me: discounts at Lowe's, Home Depot, etc. that offer veterans' discounts. Very recently after the (VIC) application started to process - you can go through (the stores') own process and just give them your phone number, but they didn't have that system until this VIC process came out. But I don't have a disability, and there's no other way to get the discount without showing my DD214 which has my SSN and I don't want to show that to just anyone.
- *Do you think there are advantages that a VA Veteran ID Card offers that other forms of military or veteran ID do not provide?* 
  - *If YES: What are the advantages?* 
  - *Do you think that the VA Veteran ID Card offers benefits that other Veteran ID cards do not provide? If Yes, what are those benefits?*    
  - *If you found out that another form of Veteran ID, such as a driver's license with a Veteran marking), gave you the same benefits as a VA-issued Veteran's ID card, would you still be interested in a VA issued Veteran ID card?* 
    - I have heard of some states that do that. Right now South Carolina doesn't have anything to designate veteran status on driver's license or ID card. they talked about implementing it this calendar year sometime. I do have veteran license plates on my truck though. I had to drop off a copy of my 214, but they don't offer any kind of veteran status on your ID card.
    - Would probably still want the VA one. It's associated with the VA. If I had an issue with the VA, it's already approved by the VA. Don't want to go through some rigmarole with the VA not honoring a state's veteran status on their state ID.
- *Can you tell me what the requirements are to get a Veteran's ID card?* 
  - Verify the info on the website, submit photo and driver's license, and that's it. I had to verify address, SSN, name, and submit the photos. It mentioned what your discharge status was. That block was there, but I don't think it was an option. One of the requirements for the VIC is honorable discharge status. You can't have anything other than that. It would populate because they have a list of that.

## Section 2: Logging in
- *Can you talk about any other times when you have applied for or renewed a government-issued photo ID, such as a driver's license or a passport? How did you do this? What steps did you* take? 
  - My driver's license in South Carolina 4.5 years ago. I needed a bill to show residency and brought down my passport - I was able to use that as a second form of ID, my previous driver's license and my social security card. Had to go down there to the DMV. They applied that to the system. took a photo and printed you a card right there.
  - *Have you ever done this online?* 
    - South Carolina doesn't allow that. You have to go to a DMV
  - *Did you have to login to a website to apply?*
- *In the current version, Veterans need to login using DS Logon or ID.me to access the application.* 
  - *Do you think you should need to login to a website to apply for a Veteran ID Card?* 
    - Absolutely. There is far too many people - this is a sad thing to say - that want to get benefits from the government when they were not honorably serving. I actually know of a guy I worked with who was dishonorably discharged who tried to use his GI bill with his wife. It took 4-5 years to figure it out, but he now owes the government $50,000 since they were paying for her college and he was dishonorably discharged
  - *Do you have any concerns about applying for a VIC on a public-facing website, where you do not have to login?*
    - Yes, absolutely
- *What would you want to know about the application process before you started? What information would be most useful to you?* 
  - What the photo upload requirements were. That was a big thing. It said you needed a photo of an id card, and it gave you the requirements later, but you were already well into the process
- *Do you have a DS Logon Premium, My HealtheVet Premium, or an ID.me account?* 
  - *If NO: Would you be willing to register for a new web account in order to apply for a VIC, if you knew it would take 10 minutes to do so, and that you would need to verify your identity by uploading a copy of your license or passport?*  
- *Would you be willing to upload a copy of your DD214 as part of the application?* 
  - Absolutely
- *The VA must obtain proof of identity, proof of military history, and proof of honorable discharge status in order to provide a Veteran ID card.* 
  - *If you learned that the VA could verify your eligibility for a VIC faster during the application process if you logged in before submitting the application, would that be of interest to you?* 
    - It would have made a difference to know up front (why they were using ID.me). I definitely would have seen and known that they were using an application like that to accomplish what they were trying to accomplish. to me knowing info about it beforehand makes a big difference.
  - *If you learned that you could track the status of your VIC application online if you logged in before submitting the application, would that be of interest to you?*  
    - Not particularly. Just knowing that ID.me was utilized for those means would have been helpful. All it said was log into this website and you're good to go, then you're logging into a third party website. It's helpful to know that they're using a 3rd party application to verify identity. be aware that you're going through this process
  - *If the VA had incorrect information about you in its database that would affect your eligibility for a Veteran ID Card, how could we be most helpful to you in notifying you of that error and helping you correct it?* 
    - Just a DD214 submittal. If that's incorrect, then you have other issues, have to go through other platforms
- *At what benchmarks in the VIC application process would you want to receive notifications from the VA? (Application submitted, Application received + ID #, Eligibility Verified, Printed Card Sent...other?)*
  - The big updates I'd want to know about: that it was submitted, an update for approval, and an update that your card is being shipped.
  - *How quickly would you want to get these notices*
    - Submitted: as soon as it was submitted through the website. I know it has to go through some review process, and that's completely acceptible. I don't need to know that it's in a review process, just tell me that it's submitted and tell me when it's approved.
- *How long do you expect the application process will take from the time you start until you hit submit?* 
  - Initially, I wasn't expecting it to take but 15 minutes. But something like that where the government has a lot of my info already and they just need to cross reference and verify and get a photo for me to apply, I'd expect that to be a very quick process.
- *How long would you expect it to take between finding out that your VIC application was approved and receiving your Veteran ID Card?*
  - I could see 3-6 months in that situation. I know they have a lot of applicants especially early on in the process. but once they get into the process and it's got to be routine, I'd expect them to cut that time table down drastically.
- *If a Veteran Service Organization or your local VA office could help you complete your Veteran ID card application if you visited them in person, how interested would you be in that option? Use a scale from 1-5, where 1 is not very interested and 5 is very insterested.* 
  - I would be interested if it was local enough to me. If I was having to travel 2-3 hours, I'd definitely rather do that online than have to drive 2-3 hours.

## Section 3: Appearance of Card 
- *On a scale from 1-5, where 1 is the least important and 5 is very important, how important is it to you that your Veteran ID Card  indicates which branch or branches of the Armed Services you served in?* 
  - 3 It's not necessary, but I would like it.
- *On a scale from 1-5, where 1 is the least important and 5 is very important, how important is it to you that your Veteran ID Card  features a photo of you?* 
  - 5
- *Have you ever uploaded a print document or photo to a website?* 
  - *Can you tell me more about that experience?* 
    - I actually signed all of the mortgage paperwork for my house through my phone. All my bank info. I signed through a webpage on my phone. So I would expect it to be able to do through a phone
  - *Using a scale from 1-5 where 1 is very difficult and 5 is very easy, how hard was it for you to do so?*
    - Very easy. I know I'm part of the technological generation.
  - *How did you make the print document or photo digital?* 
  - *Can you tell me more about how you use that assistive device you mentioned?* 
- *If you had to submit an official passport photo for the VIC application, how easy or difficult would it be for you to get one taken? Use a scale from 1-5 where 1 is very difficult and 5 is very easy.*
  - Would definitely be inconvenient for me to go to a CVS or something like that to obtain a passport photo. We only have a few in the area. Doing passport photos through them are very much a scheduled event. You have to call them and let them know so that they have a person there who can do that. you can't just show up and have them take a photo.
- *If you could take your own photo but it still had to meet passport photo standards, how confident do you feel that you could do that? Use a scale from 1-5 where 1 is not very confident and 5 is very confident.*
  - I feel confident that I could take the photo and upload it. The problem I foresee happening is the size. The photo I took earlier and tried to submit was too large. Having something in the system that could parse it down to size so that I don't have to do that on my computer would be something that would be useful.

## Section 4: Digital vs Print

- *What do you think a Veteran ID Card will look like?*
  - Very similar to a driver's license. A white background. It's gonna say Veterans' ID Card across it. Date of birth, probably a Veterans' ID number that's hopefully not just my SSN. Photo ID. May have some holographic securities on it which would be nice being that it's an ID card.
- *We're exploring doing a digital card that you'd be able to pull up on your phone (and in theory could get access to much more quickly than a plastic card).*
  - *Have you ever heard about or used a digital ID card?*
    - I've used digital insurance cards where I've kept a digital copy of my insurance card on my phone. I definitely find that much more convenient than a hard copy card, as long as they can keep it secure. Especially with these new phones to maybe unlock an app to give you access to a new card via fingerprint scanner. I would do that in a heartbeat to get a new card. 
  - *Would you be interested in a digital VIC? Do you have any concerns about that?*
    - As long as it's secure. My fingerprint scanner on my Pixel XL. I can use that to get into my bank account. If I can use the scanner and it pulls up my Veterans' ID card, I'm all for that.
  - *Would you still want a plastic card?*

## Closing Interview

- *Do you have any comments or questions about the Veteran ID Card that we have not yet covered today?*  
  - I like your idea of the digital card. I'd be all for that if you do an app and I can just log into it and use a fingerprint as the technology of it. I would definitely use that.


