Meeting time: Bi-weekly Thursdays 3:35pm ET-4:00pm ET
Agenda:

*   Discuss any blockers or open questions on the Mobile Design System work
*   Review open action items
*   Discuss progress and risks 

## 3/28/24
*   Cathulhu team mascot
*   drawing the line between adjusting to 1-off app design requests and adding useful functionality based on app dev feedback
*   general status

## 3/14/24
*   Setting up touchpoint with VADS around semantic tokens

  
## 2/15/24
*   Update on current work
*   Checkbox vs.Checkbox Group in VADS

## 2/1/24
*   Team Mission/Vision/NS
*   Continuation of button variant conversation [from Slack](https://dsva.slack.com/archives/C05HF9ULKJ4/p1706726774164179)

## 1/18/24
*   2024 Q1 OKRs coming soon
*   Working with USWDS

## 12/21/23
*   Recurring touchopint with VADS team

  
## 12/07/23
*   Incorporating our docs with VADS
    * Who would we work with from VADS?
      * ??
      * Ryan to find out - Matt Dingee
    * desired outcomes
      * Add documentation for Mobile component into the VADS docs
      * Forgiveness over permission from VADS group
      * create a ticket to propose adding something to VADS documentation
        * do something simple to start
        * want to start the conversation 
*   Sharing Icons with VADS?
    *   VADS is moving to Google Icons instead of FontAwesome in 2024
    *   Some changes we would need may happen with the transition anyway
    *   Ryan to find out who we should work with on VADS team - Matt Dingee
    *   Service Branch logos should be shared as well, we just need the .svg
*   Design Token strategy
    *   We are looking into how we can use VADS Design Tokens directly
      *   We will definitely be able to use their 'primitive' tokens (basic colors)
      *   Not sure yet about other kinds of tokens like typography, but we think it's possible
        *   We can add mobile-specific things on top of that
      *   VADS is missing some USWDS colors so we could pull directly from USWDS
      *   Ryan: if we could just have VADS bring in all colors we need from USWDS so we only pull from VADS, would that be easier?  Narin: yeah
        *   Ask Matt Dingee about them adding more colors
*   Q1 Planning
*   va-mobile-library repo - moving tickets
      
## 11/21/23
*   Review Button component in Storybook
*   Discuss Color Tokens
*   Review Alert component

### Action Items
- [ ] Create ticket to reconcile White Button variant in app on Login Screen
- [ ] Request to add dark mode colors tokens to VADS

## 10/12/23
*   Discuss Review/Feedback process (based on Service Blueprint work)
     -  How and where and who do we want to have a review/approval process?
     -  Use Cases that could differ:
        -   Non-flagship VA team adding functionality to the Flagship app
            -   Flagship Product group, Ryan would review (smallest number possible)
        -   Non-flagship VA team building a new app
            -   Less governance needed
     -   We definitely want some sort of review
*   Discuss QA process/Release Mgmt strategy
    -   non-flagship VA teams submitting PRs for QA testing
        -   size of the PR not equivalent to QA effort
        -   How can we effectively set expectations for QA time?
        -   Could/should non-flagship teams write their own tests not maintained by the Flagship team?
            -  Yes please.  Definitely unit tests, ideally E2E tests as well.  We would want them to watch if their merge breaks tests not related to their functionality as well.
        -   Non-flagship teams should do their own QA, but also the Shared Services QA team would need to sign off prior to merging their feature branches

  
## 9/28/23
*   Documentation combining with VADS

## 9/14/23
*   Demo recap
*   Next component
     -  AlertBox?
     -  Having other H&B app devs incorporate into app in Q4

## 8/30/23
Agenda
- Status Update
- Open action items
- Component list review by Jessica

Status Update
- Added automated unit tests, linting, and codeql to help ensure code quality
- Continued implementation of the segmented control component into the Flagship app
- Continued updates to component documentation to more closely align with VADS component documentation
- Creating list of components to be added to design system
- Next - add color design token to design system 

Open action items
- repo 

## 8/17/23
*   Choosing 2nd component to build out

## 8/3/23
*   IA of Mobile Design System Documentation
     -  for Q3 we will put our Design System and component docs on the Mobile Doc site
     -  longer-term we want to have our docs more integrated with VADS, but still some unknowns on how
       -  Ryan to check with Matt D. about using the Draft functionality from VADS and the Code Usage section and how that would work if Mobile was included

## 7/20/23
*   Discuss purpose/role of this meeting
*   Open Action Items:
     -  VADS stakeholder introduction to Kelly
     -  Outcomes/Goals 1-pager format feedback
*   Progress of component-library discovery
*   Discussion on MVP component selection          
