# Health Wayfinding Secondary Navigation - Research [11-21-2023-P3]

## Warm-up Questions - 5 minutes
M: Let’s start with a few questions... 

Do you normally use your phone, desktop, or laptop to do health-related activities on VA.gov?
* **P3: I use both my phone and laptop.** 

What device will you be using today? 
* **P3: I have my laptop.**

Tell me about the last time you used it for any heatlh-related activities. When was that? What did you use it for? 
* **P3: I believe a week or two weeks ago I used it to review my upcoming appointments and to reschedule because I had some conflicts. And to review my medications and see what else I need to renew.** 

Would you say you use your laptop or your phone more? 
* **P3: I use my laptop more than my phone - it has more features than the phone.** 
   
M: Next I will share a link in the Zoom chat and ask you to share your screen with us.*[Jenny explains how to share screens]*

## Interview - 50 minutes 

M: So, today you are going to perform some healthcare-related activities with this prototype. I will be giving you a couple of healthcare-related activities, and please use this prototype to walk me through how you'd complete the activities.

M: Just as a reminder, this is a prototype, which means that it will behave differently than the actual website. You will be signed in as a testing user, named Judy. It’s a fake account with fake information, so you won’t see your name and your personal information. Not all of the links will work. As well, please do not use the back button in your browser as it will take you out of the prototype. There is a back button in the prototype that you can use to go back in the prototype.

M: Before I give you the task, talk me through what you are seeing on the screen - where does it make you think you are on the VA.gov site?

* **P3: I think I'm on my cellphone. It looks similarly like that.** *[notices it is a mobile design].* 

M: Are you familiar with this page, My HealtheVet? 

* **P3: Based on this, it's my MyhealtheVet account and I am looking at my appointments.** 

### Task 1a - MR and SM

M: Imagine that you were recently put on blood thinner medication. Your doctor ordered blood tests two weeks after you started the medication to make sure that it is working. And you want to see the results of that blood test. How would you go about seeing those results? It would really help me if you could talk me through what you are thinking. 

* **P3: I would go the labs. I would go to the main page and click the option that lets me see my lab results.** 

M: Can you show me how you would do that here?  

* **P3: Hmm..I am only seeing the word appointments** *[doesn't realize she can scroll - this seems to be an issue when folks do these mobile sessions on a desktop - Lois will reach out to Perigean]*

M: Can you try to explore this page a little bit so I can see what you would do?

* P3: *[opens mega menu and clicks into healthcare benefit hub].* 

M: Is this what you normally would do? is that where you would click?

* **P3: Yes, I think I'd click the heatlhcare option, then healthcare, then labs. Sometimes there is Medications often. Where I can click on each of those things and find what I'm looking for. But here I don't see that option.**

M: Do you think you could explore a little bit on the page, or do you just want to open the menu? 

* **P3: This page you mean? I mean appointments is not going to have lab results and I only see appointments.**

M: Is this letting you scroll at all?

* **P3: Scroll? Hmm, it will only show me 3 options right here. I have a touch laptop and it isn't letting me go further. Maybe if I make the screen smaller?** 

M: Hmm, yeah maybe try that.

* P3: *[tries to troubleshoot to see whole prototype].* 

M: Let's try another task and we'll circle back to this one.



### Task 2 - Appointments

For the next task, you need to make a new appointment with your new doctor, but you don't remember their name. You can check their name from your recent appointment visit. How would you would you go about finding their name on this website?

* **P3: I'm not quite sure. That's not something I've done before. Because appointments don't really quite tell me who it is.** 

M: Okay, so in this case, let's say that you meant them once from a recent appointment visit. But you need to make a new appointment with that new person, how would you go about checking their name from that recent appointment.

* **P3: I remember one time I managed to locate...but I'm not quite sure I'd have to play around in my appointments options.** 

M: Okay, do you think you could do that from this page? I know it's very limited right now. 

* **P3: Okay, schedule appointments or manage appointments?** *[clicks that link and goes to appointments page]* **Okay, it says here VA appointment with Anna Leigh, but in my real website it doesn't say this.** 

M: So, you've seen this doctor from a recent appointment - you have met this doctor once from your last appointment. Do you think you can find that from this page? your past appointment information? Or, how would you?

* **P3: On this prototype page? It says I have an appointment on Decmeber 1st with doctor Mason. I don't recall that my appointments would tell me exactly who I would be seeing. It would just tell me the department like podiatry or rheumatology.** 

M: So normally you don't need to know the doctor's name? 

* **P3: Well, not that - but that they don't tell me. It isn't always consistent - some people are permanent but other times they have residents.** 

M: Okay, well that is good to know. Are you able to scroll on here by any chance? 

* **P3: No, I cannot.**

*[we pivot to sharing Jenny's screen instead / take a few minutes to switch and troubleshoot].*

M: Let's go back to the first task that we weren't able to do.  

## Task 1 (A & B)

M: Where would you go from here? 

* **P3: I would go back to this main screen. When I log in there is a way to click into these things that I don't see here.** 

M: Are you a frequent user of My HealtheVet? 

* **P3: Yes, I use it at least once a month.**
 
M: Okay, let's forget about that website for a second. Where would you go to try and find your lab results on this prototype? 

* **P3: I don't see anything here - logic tells me that labs wouldn't be under appointments and that is all I see.** 

M: Do you want to go somewhere or scroll somewhere? 

* **P3: I want to explore this page more, can you scroll further down please? Keep going....yeah, see there - lab and test results. I would click on that. And then I would choose the dates when I had the lab and I would review that.** 

M: So the labs we are reviewing are for blood tests. 

* **P3: So I want the blood count, right?** 

M: If that's what you think. 

* **P3: Okay, I would click on details to see more.** 

M: Do you think you are on the right page? 

* **P3: I think so, yes. It is about my blood so it makes sense. Can you keep looking for details?** 

M: You want me to scroll down further? 

* **P3: yes. I see the RBC, I can see these results yes. Okay, I guess this is what we are looking for.** 

M: So if you don't know if it is in the normal range, how would you ask a question? 

* **P3: yes I would look for if it's in the normal range. If not, I would call my doctor and ask about that and what I should do to get that back in the normal range.**

M: yeah, okay, so you would call them. How would you ask them from within this prototype? 

* **P3: usually I would message them - send a message.** 

M: Could you show me how you would get ot the messages from her? 

* **P3: I would get out of here and go back to the main screen where we have a bunch of options and click the Messaging screen, and then I would look for the department I want to send the message to.**

M: So tell me where you would click to get back to that main screen.

* **P3: Umm...menu?** *[opens mega menu]* **I guess I would have to go back to VA benefits and healthcare?** *[navigates to that in mega menu]* **but this doesn't look right - I guess I would just use the back arrow to get back to that page.** 

M: Okay, so you would go back instead. 

* **P3: Mhmm, yes.** 

### Tasks - generative questions about secondary nav

M: Let me pause you real quick before we go back to the main page. Do you think there is another way to get back? 

* **P3: Umm...there is probably another way but I don't see it here, so I just go back to the main page because to me that is easier.** 

M: Do you see this "In this section" here on the page? Did you see this before i pointed it out to you?

* **P3: No, I didn't pay attention to that. I don't know - I guess I would click on those 3 bars I guess to see what it says.** 

M: Would you want me to click on that? 

* **P3: Yes please.** *[Jenny opens the "in this section" nav]* **Okay, it still says labs and I don't want labs, I need to go back to messaging. So close that please.** 

M: What do you think "in this section" means? 
* **P3:  Well I think its showing me what I can do from here but I want messages, so I can't do that from here.** 

M: Where do you think all of these options in this menu leads you to? 

* **P3: Umm..all of my records and all of my events. My medical records would be all the results from my past visits.** 

M: Okay, so do you think this is helpful for you? 

* **P3: To get to messaging, no. For the purposes of what I'm trying to do - get to messaging - it's not going to work.**

M: Okay, so we will close that. Where did you say you wanted to go from there? 

* **P3: Well, that big main menu doesn't say messaging, so I think I would try to use the back arrow to get to that main page.** *[clicks back arrow - click back arrow again].* **Well, we are still on medical records so this isn't going to be helpful.** *[Click back arrow again to get to landing page, scrolls up and sees "Messages"].*

*[troubleshooting prototype for a minute]* 

* **P3: Well, this is what I would do if this works.** 

M: That is so good to know, thank you for walking me through that. So thinking about the tasks we've done so far - the medical records and a little bit in appointments. Is this something you would normally do? 

* P3: **Do you mean on this website?**

M: Yeah, like what would you normally do on this website? 

* P3: **Usually I check my medications, my appointments, and send medical messages. Those are the 3 things I use it for a lot.** 

M: And from this navigating experience we just have done right now, how would you rate it form 1 - being very hard and 5- being very easy. 1-5 scale, how would you rate it? 

* **P3: I would say it is quite easy to navigate from what I am seeing right now. It's quite easy to move up and down to get to what you need.** 

M: I do see you going back to the main page a lot. Is that something you would normally do? 

* **P3: Yes, because I don't see an option where I can choose - let's say messaging for instance - from a new screen. So I have to go back to the main page to, if I'm looking for a different one like Appointments, I'd click on Appointments.** 

M: Okay, I'm going to ask you another question and for that I'm going to go to Medical Records. So, I know you didn't go on this page but I want to ask you some questions about the menu that you earlier wanted to check if things are in there [points to primary mega menu] and also this "in this section" menu [points to secondary nav] that you didn't really interact with. Can you tell me what you think each of them does?

* **P3: The top menu, to me, is options on different types of categories. But the "in this section" is the sub-menu for medical records and all that.** 

M: Sub-menu for medical records. IS that what you said? 

* **P3: Yes, mhmm.**

M: And the sub-menu you said you could get option for medical records. Let me open this up and tell me if this meets your expectations? 

* **P3: Yes, mhmm... I think this will be mostly about past visits and notes about my vaccines and everything. My vitals, all my records from a past visit.** 

M: And, uhh..so now that I have pointed out to you what this "in this section" menu does, if you - do you think it would have helped you during that navigation process?

* **P3: well, I just noticed above medical records there are links to those other ones Appointments, Messages, Medications. So maybe that is like the options on that main page.** 

M: Could you say that again? 

* **P3: Well, now I see different categories now. So now I don't have to go to main menu - I can just click on them from that box and have all these options.** 

M: Would you have used this? To help you navigate? 

* **P3: Yes, mhmm..this is a lot better than having to start all over on the main page. This is an improvement.**

M: Okay, that is good to know. Okay, so let's go to lab and tests and I'm going to show you the "in this section" again *[shows narrower view from child page].* So, looking at this compared to the menu we were just looking at earlier. Can you tell me if this meets your expectation? 

* **P3: Yes, because I am looking specifically for this information.**

M: Okay, so we are looking for all these things lab results, care summaries and notes, etc. Can you tell me what those results are all a part of? 

* **P3: One second, let me plug in my power cord. One second.** 

M: Oh, yeah.

M: *[Lois asking this one]* remembering this information and what you saw in the menu on the previous screen, would you expect them to be the same? 

* **P3: No, because I am only looking for this information.** 

M: Okay, thank you - interesting. I appreciate it - that's all for me. 

## Wrapping up

* **P3: Okay, so I think that's all we have for you today.** 

M: If you know any other Veterans, caregivers, or service members who might be willing to participate in a future research session like this one, you can pass along the web link that you'll receive in your email from our team. 

M: Thank you so much again, do you have any more questions for me? 

* **P3: No, I appreciate you helping us navigating the Va.gov it is so complicated. I am happy that I can help to improve it.** 

M: yes, we really appreciate your help and will definitely be able to improve it. and I hope that you enjoy the rest of your day!
