# Health Wayfinding Secondary Navigation Research [11-20-2023-P2]

## Warm-up Questions - 5 minutes
M: Let’s start with a few questions... 

1. Do you normally use your phone, desktop, or laptop to do health-related activities on VA.gov?
  P: It depends - for health records and prescriptions I use my computer for benefits I use my phone with the app
  P: confirms she is using her phone today

2. Tell me about the last time you used it. When was that? What did you use it for?
   P: Maybe 3 months ago I needed to refill my prescription and I wasn't home so I went on the phone and did it on my MHV

## Interview - 50 minutes 

M: Great, now the fun part begins. I'd like you to know that I will share a prototype link with you during our chat today. I will put the link in the Zoom chat. 

Just as a reminder, this is a prototype, which means that it will behave differently than the actual website. You will be signed in as a testing user, named Judy. It’s a fake account with fake information, so you won’t see your name and your personal information. Not all of the links will work. As well, please do not use the back button in your browser as it will take you out of the prototype. There is a back button in the prototype that you can use to go back in the prototype. I'll show you when you open the link. *[sends link to prototype in Zoom chat]*

M: So, today you are going to perform some healthcare-related activities with this prototype. I will be giving you a couple of healthcare-related activities, and please use this prototype to walk me through how you'd complete the activities.

M: Before I give you the task, talk me through what you are seeing on the screen - where does it make you think you are on the site?
P: I see MHV and this is the appointment screen
_prompts scroll - sees medications etc_
P: I see my VA benefits and then links and resources in the spotlight


### Task 1a - MR and SM

M: Imagine that you were recently put on blood thinner medication. Your doctor ordered blood tests two weeks after you started the medication to make sure that it is working. How would you go about seeing those results? It would really help me if you could talk me through what you are thinking. 

P: to review my lab test results I would go to health records and click on lab test results - then I'd go find the results I'm looking for. I would look for a complete blood count. clicks on the details link. I can print or download or scroll through and look at the results. I want to go to provider notes to see what the provider put on there

M:  this something you’ve done before - looked up a test result on a VA site? tell me more about the last time you did that.

**After participant finishes the task:**
- What was helpful, and what wasn’t? Why?
- What did you like, and didn’t? Why?
- (_If there’s a pattern, ask this question. If not, ask after all tasks_) I see you used ___(e.g. "in this section" menu, or breadcrumbs, or trying to go to MHV landing page) a lot, tell me more about why you did that?


## Task 1b - MR and SM

M: Let's say that you're not sure what the results mean because of the medical terminologies and you want to ask your doctor about it. Using the resources offered on this website, how would you go about doing that? It would really help me if you could talk me through what you are thinking

P: I would go back out to main taps on the menu, then tap on in this section, then tap on the Medical records breadcrumb, and go back to the main page because she wants to send a secure message. I'd tap on sending a new message. That's funny it went back to complete blood count". To find another way to get to messaging tap the main menu and go to inbox there is a link to start a new message. 

After participant finishes the task:

•	What was helpful, and what wasn’t? Why?
p: it's self-explanatory to me - everything is right there"

Is this something you would normally do
p: yes if I wanted to find results I'd go to the doctor's notes


### Task 2 - Appointments

For the next task, you need to make a new appointment with your new doctor, but you don't remember their name. You can check their name from your recent appointment visit. How would you would you go about finding their name on this website?

p: need to get back out of here
p: when I tap my MHV it doesn't do anything
M redirects her to the prototype back button

p: I would go back to health records
I would click on - pauses - is that what I want to do - I could go to health records and look at my last visit
I should be able to look at appointments
VA appointments tapped on
Tries to schedule and manage your appointments
Prototype Issue - no upcoming appointments are shown
list of my appointments - since it says manage I should be able to cancel or reschedule
M clarifies - what do you expect to see - she says my appointments - and recent appointments
I just went back to the main pages because it was easier - 
M: What is easier?
P: It is easier to go back to the main screen instead of looking around on the main page to see things

  
### Task 3 - Medications
M: Imagine that you have taken a medication named TACROLIMUS for a while, and you want to check the expiration date for ordering refills for TACROLIMUS. How do you go about doing that from here? 
Goes to the medication main card
taps refill va prescriptions
once you look at your list
It's supposed to tell you when it expires
taps tacrolimus link
it has all the information here - it says to order refills by this prescription date


### Task 4 - MR
M: Imagine you have an overseas trip coming up, and you need to download all your vaccines to prove that you're safe to travel. Where would you go to do that?

scrolls back up I'm going back to the main screen
taps "in this section" button
I want to go to medical records
Jenny probes on the "in this section" menu
J: why did you click on this - 
p: I want to go to medical records and medical records was right there
p: I looked at it and thought let me click on this to see what is under there
p: I'd scroll down to vaccines and then go to vaccines and it has all of them - I'd push print or download
normally I'm not downloading vaccines but my medical portion
5 it's easy - it's self-explanatory
j prompts re: why did you want to go back to the mhv main page
p: phone and computer are different
I can see more on my computer screen than phone
it was easier to go back to the "main menu"
j probes - from vaccines what do you think the in this section will do
P: do something else pertaining to this vaccine section
[responds to in this section menu] "I don't understand what that has to do with vaccines"
J says what do you think this list belongs to?
This belongs to medical records - different areas under medical records
I don't think that link should be leading to this
j probes - see the menu on the very top - what do you think the difference is between that menu and the in this section
p: top is the menu for the overall site
j: what is the overall site - 
p: secure messaging, prescriptions, if you go back to that home page it should be those same things that were on the home page
LL: thinks the overall site is MHV only?
j asks - what did you struggle with
LL: let's reframe that question - what IF ANYTHING did you find difficult
p - I didn't struggle - I know my mhv so I didn't struggle with anything
L probes: you said you were familiar with MyHealthyVet - does this feel familiar to you? 
p: Yes like MHV I'm used to
