# Health Wayfinding Secondary Navigation Research [11-22-2023-P6]

## Participant background
* Works for VA - is an assistant department director, so pretty familiar with the process of research and the website. 

## Warm-up Questions - 5 minutes

M: Do you normally use your phone, desktop, or laptop to do health-related activities on VA.gov? 
* P6: I am using an Apple iPhone 11 today. I have gone into My HealtheVet via this phone, but I've also done it on the computer. 

*[Jenny shares a link to the prototype in the chat and explains how to screen-share]*
   
M: Thanks for your patience in figuring that out. 

## Interview - 50 minutes 

M: So, today you are going to perform some healthcare-related activities with this prototype. I will be giving you a couple of healthcare-related activities, and please use this prototype to walk me through how you'd complete the activities.

M: Just as a reminder, this is a prototype, which means that it will behave differently than the actual website. You will be signed in as a testing user, named Judy. It’s a fake account with fake information, so you won’t see your name and your personal information. Not all of the links will work. As well, please do not use the back button in your browser as it will take you out of the prototype. There is a back button in the prototype that you can use to go back in the prototype. 

M: Before I give you the task, talk me through what you are seeing on the screen - where does it make you think you are on the site?

* P6: Looking at it, looks like I may have just logged on and I am on the appointments tab. And I'd probably go to this if I wanted to see all of my upcoming appointments. 

M: Is that everything you are seeing on this page? 
* P6: Well, I can schedule, I can look at my appointments. If I scroll up, looks like I can send a message to my provider. Medications, refill, check when that got delivered. Medical records - like I can check if I got blood work done, or maybe it could be a CAT scan, an X-ray, it could be. blood pressure. Health history could be referring to past procedures, past vitals, payments if I file a claim for travel that I want reimbursement for, I think it would probably give me the status of it. 

M: I am curious what this page will help you to do.

* P6: Actually, it will help me to do a lot. Like tomorrow if I have an emergency, I could schedule an appointment or I could postpone or cancel an appointment that I may have. 

## Task 1a - MR and SM

M: Great, that's a great start. Now let's jump into our activities. Imagine that you were recently put on blood thinner medication. Your doctor ordered blood tests two weeks after you started the medication to make sure that it is working. How would you go about seeing those results..from...from here?

* P6: If I want my results from my blood tests, I would look for "lab and test results" under health records. 
M: Okay, could you show me how you would do that? 

* P6: well, I'm going to tap "lab and test resutls" and it is actually taking me to the results. Umm..so 2 weeks ago, chances are it was the complete blood count that happened on April 1, 2022. Since it was a blood test, that's chemistry and hematology. And if I want details, I would click on details (I mean the findings of this blood test). 
* P6: unfortunately, the 3 college degrees that I have, none of them are in medicine. So these results would be Greek to me. What is WBC, what is RBC? HGB? I would have to speak or beg for some kind of interpretation of some results. I don't know what's what to be honest with you. 


## Task 1b - MR and SM

M: Great, well that's actually your next task - to ask your provider a question from here. 

*P6: well that's the great part, there is a little tab that says I can compose a message and contact my provider right here. Shoudl I click that? 

M: Is that what you would do? 

* P6: Yeah, I'll click that here. It looks right - it even clearly states an option for "ask a question about my test/lab results"

M: Is this something you would normally do when managing your own health? 

* P6: Yes, I have done this. There has been a time when i need to renew a prescription, and I have to write to my doctor and write "Can you please renew this prescription?" And a lot of times they will, but depending on the last time you have seen or spoken to your doctor, they may request that you please make an appointment so you can see me and we can discuss. 

M: Thank you for that example, it is helpful to know what you would actually do in comparison to this example. Okay, great, so moving onto the next activity.


## Task 2 - Appointments

M: Say that you need to make a new appointment with your new doctor, but you don't remember their name. You can check their name from your recent appointment visit. How would you would you go about finding their name on this website?

* P6: I would go back up to....I need to find this new doctor I only saw once. "In this section" possibly. OR, in the past what I've done is where it says "to" I would click on the dropdown box and find that doctor's name. 

M: I'm curious you said that you might use the "in this section" - what do you think that does for you? What do you expect? 

* P6: it might have the name of my primary care, I might be able to get back to the list of my appointments. 

M: Great, that is helpful to know. So it is either - it could take you to appointments or you could find some information related to your doctor in there, you assume, once you open that.
* P6: Yeah.
M: Okay, so go to that.

* P6: the in this section? or...
M: Yes, if that's what you would do. 
* P6: *[opens "in this section" and sees options, but says it's not what he wants. Then reopens it and clicks "Appointments"]* Oh, but look there it is under my appointments. I see "pending" and "past" appointments. But I haven't seen that before *[is now opening narrower view of the "in this section" menu from the appointments page].* This is definitely new and I have not seen this before, so I can really appreciate that. And I have never seen my provider's name in the appointment details before.

M: So you are saying having the details there is helpful.

* P6: Oh yeah, definite thumbs up. 

M: So this is where you would look to find the name of that new doctor that you went to see? 

* P6: yeah, because I see - and this is definitely a first - I can see the doctor's name and the clinic that it is from. I have never seen this before, they don't normally list that. ...And I do like this.

M: Thats great to hear your thoughts on that. Great. Let's move forward with our activities.  

  
## Task 3 - Medications
M: Imagine that you have taken a medication named TACROLIMUS for a while, and you want to check the expiration date for ordering refills for TACROLIMUS. How do you go about doing that from here? 

* P6: Well, trial and error I would go to "Menu" *[opens primary mega menu]* and look at ... hmm not that, so i'll go back to "in this section" *[opens secondary nav]* but it's not there either. Scrolling, scrolling....I don't know. I'll click the back arrow on appointments if it will take me. So now I'm back at appointments and now I am opening the "in this section" again *[opens secondary nav]* and now I see Medications, so I'll click on Medications. 

M: Is this what you expect to see? Did you think you'd see Medications when you were on appointments? Or are you just checking? 

* P6: Well, I knew you were asking about expired meds so I clicked the back button to get back to appointments and then opened in this section *[slightly confusing explanation]*

M: *[Jenny asks for clarification and to back-up, slow down].* Is this what you expected when you wanted to go back? 

* P6: Yeah, because ...*[sigh]* well, you wanted me to go back, so now I'm on the home page. I see appointment and know that I can schedule and manage them. But now I want to check my prescription that I am managing, right? 

M: Yes, that's correct. Okay, could you click on "manage your appointments" for me? 

* P6: Sure! here? 
M: Yeah. So now that you're on manage your appointments, you clicked on "in this section" to choose medications. I'm just...talk me through....when you opened up the "in this section" did you expect to see other things in that list than just things about appointments?

* P6: No, not really. I'm used to - well it shows me past and pending appointments and I like that. In the My HealtheVet I'm used to, it's all just in one list. So the appointment from last week still shows up when you go to My HealtheVet. 

M: *[asks again for clarity]* what about medical records and medications? did you expect those to be in there?

*P6: well, to tell you the truth, no. I am thinking "in this section" will be only things under Appointments. So I'm thinking if I want something else I would go to "menu" to find another option. 

M: Ah, so I saw you do that and now I know why you did that when you opened the other menu.

* P6: Yeah, because when you see "in this section" you think it will be only things that are about this are you're in like make an appointment, cancel an appointment, etc. It shouldn't be other stuff. 

M: That is good feedback. Could you tell me the differences between "menu" in the top corner and "in this section" - could you describe and tell me about what you thin kthe differences are? 

* P6: well, like I said "in this section" should only pertain to things in this section. But Menu should have more choices like pharmacy, medications, medical records, contacts and emergency, and also, i.e. my personal stuff, I should have a dropdown of that. But again, with the term "in this section" it should only pertain to the subject matter i.e. appointments. And if I go to the drop-down menu and go to "Prescriptions" there should be a heading under "prescriptions" that has an "in this section" heading that would only be about that section so like "refill your medication" etc. 

M: Yeah, so thank you for your feedback on that. Can you open the menu button now? *[opens this menu]* Do you expect to see thing sot her than health related information in there? 

* P6: No, none of this should be here. This menu shouldn't have things about the VA. It should have stuff about me. My needs, my wants. That stuff should be in a different submenu. All this other stuff "contact us, find the VA location" this on another website should be under the two letters "VA" in the top level of the website. But this menu shouldn't be here in front of me once I'm logged in. 

* P6: You see those two letters, VA, in the top of the site? When I click that, this menu that I'm seeing under "menu" should show up. But if I hit menu *[once I'm logged in],* I should get a different list of choices pertaining only to me. 

M: Okay, so can you see when your prescription for Tacrolimus - when would the refill expiration date happen? 

* P6: *[finds Tacrolimus in medications list]* I only see that I have one refill left and when it was last filled *[looking at information on card in list view].*  

M: How would you find the details? 

* P6: I don't know. you might need another tab that clearly states medication information or prescription information. Because I am under hte impression if I hit the hyperlink it is just going to tell me what Tacrolimus is for and what it would look like, stuff like that. 

M: That is good insight on that. Okay, umm...that is helpful. That is this activity then. If you are not able to find the expiration date that is also a good finding for us, so thank you. 


## Task 4 - MR
M: So next activity. Imagine you have an overseas trip coming up, and you need to download all your vaccines to prove that you're safe to travel. Where would you go to find your vaccines?

* P6: Hmm...I would go to "in this section" and see if vaccinations are in there. normally I would go to Menu and look for vaccinations, etc. but I'm going to try "in this section" aaaand nothing *[opens "in this section" menu from the medications page].* 

* P6: Like anything, I would scroll through the rest of hte page to see if it were anywhere on the page. Oy vey! I have no idea how I would find my vaccinations. 

M: Okay, what do you think vaccines belong to? What category would you put that in? 

* P6: Medications.

M: You think it would be under medications? 

* P6: Umm...hmm..I think yeah? I think I would look there. 

M: Why did you look under the "in this section"?

* P6: well, because like I said, I think it's options that are pertaining to just this section. 

M: Yeah, that is totally fair - the labeling...I can see why you would think that. Well, let's see....vaccines. So you also mentioned that normally you would just go the menu. Is that what you would normally do? Like are you a frequent My HealtheVet user, is that why you said that? 

* P6: Yeah, I mean I use it regularly. 

M: so, show me how you do that. That menu may be wonky because of the prototype, but I am curious where you would go. 

* P6: Let's see...I'd try the menu...but it doesn't work, because...

M: Okay, well where else would you look for vaccinations since it's not under Medications. 

* P6: Umm..I would say medical history if there's a section for medical history.

M: Okay, good to know. Could you open up the "in this section" again?

* P6: Sure. Well, my logic is telling me to go to "Medical Records"

M: What do you mean your logic? 

* P6: Well, I think I could try it. 

M: Did you miss this the first time? 

* P6: I guess I just wasn't looking closely enough. *[attempts to click Medical records from "in this section" menu, but prototype doesn't work. Jenny instructs him to go to the My HealtheVet landing page instead and look there.]*

* P6: For this under health records, I think I would go to health history. 

M: I'm so sorry about this prototype, but I think the only link that works under this is "download medical records" 

* P6: got it, well when I see download medical records I think oh crap this thing is going to be huge and I only have so much space on my phone. I just want to *look at* my history. 

M: Hmm..could you try clicking these and see if they work. 

* P6: Alright I'll try my first guess which is health history - nope, doesn't work. Now I'll try download...aaaand that doesn't work either. 

M: Hmm..can you see labs and tests and tell me what you would do from here? 

* P6: Okay, great [clicks Medical records heading and gets to this page]. 

M: Can you tell me if you think you'd find your vaccine information from this page? 

* P6 *[scrolls on the screen]* yes, I see vaccines right here. 

M: Is that where you would expect? 

* P6: Yes, I think this is right where I thought it would be under medical records. 


### Other Questions: 
M: Overall, how would you rate the experience of completing various health-related tasks? 1 being very difficult and 5 being very easy, and why? (if they have a hard time recalling, ask them to go back to the prototype and point out where).

* P6: well, I am going to give it a 3, only because it coudl be difficult for some who do dnot know how to use the back and refresh key. If I wasn't familiar with it, I would always go to the words "menu" and not rely on "in this section." I put so much faith in "menu." 
* P6: But, when you get someone who is not computer savvy, they're going to get frustrated and they're going to say "I'm not going to use this anymore." So by taking away the comfort word "menu" you have made people really frustrated and upset. It's kind of like my ex-wife used to tell me, it's right in front of you, but you didn't see it - if you were talking about the milk in the refrigerator. 

M: *[laughs]* Yes, that is a great way to put it. Okay, so you are a frequent My HealtheVet user and it is easier for you to find things. Am i understanding that correctly? 

* P6: Yes, because I rely on menu and everything I want should be in that menu or the table of contents. 

 M: I see and you expect it to be anything related to health or related to you. 
* P6: That menu should be about me. Look at that page, there is a name that says "Judy" and the menu is right next to it, the menu should be about Judy. 

M: Uh-huh. Now that you hae interacted with this a little bit, tel lme about what was helpful or not helpful about that. 

* P6: it was helpful once you got the breadcrumb to go to this section. Now I know that in this section I am going to find a vast pathway to go down different avenues. But I'm still old-fashioned and when I see "in this section" I think that anything in there should be associated with the section I'm in. 

M: Now that you know how the "in this section" works, what would you label it? 

* P6: Hmm...i don't...you could call it vaccination information...I don't know. I really don't. But whatever that...it should not be labeled "in this section" if it is not actually just only about this section. I'd use that upper tab menu and put that word menu in place of "in this section." 

* P6: *[From this vaccines page]* like to make an appointment right now, I would think to go to "menu" for that, not "in this section" 

M: Could you go to lab and test results? And could you open up the "in this section" menu? 

* P6: Okay.

M: Could you tell me did you expect to see anything else other than lab and test to be listed on the menu? 

* P6: Well, this came from "menu" correct? And we're in lab and test resutls? uhh...I think vitals should be there. hm..yeah everything that is here should be here. 
M: Okay, do you think they are a part of lab and test results, or do you think those are their own thing? 

* P6: I think they are their own thing...well, hmm...I think vitals would be in this section. But manage your medical records and care and summary notes should not be there. But allergies....eh. that could stay there. Health conditions ---ehhh--I don't think should be under lab and test results. Care summaries should be a totally separate tab with notes from your physicians, that isn't something that should be under "lab and test results"

* P6: Like let's say i have flat feet as a condition, or gingivitis, why would that be under lab and test results? 

M: Okay, that is helpful to see how you would categorize them. 

M: I have one more question if that's alright. So you mentioned the name in the top of the site with the menu next to it that should be about you. 

* P6: Yes! I think that this menu should be closer to the VA, not next to my name.

M: yes, I totally understand what you are saying. If you click the name "Judy" what do you think happens? 

* P6: *[clicks the name in the heading and the submenu pops up]* this information should be under the menu, not under "Judy." 


## Thank You and Closing - 1 minute
M: Great, that is all the questions I have. 
M: Thank you so much again, and I hope that you enjoy the rest of your day!
