# Health Wayfinding Secondary Navigation Research [11-22-2023-P8]

## Warm-up Questions - 5 minutes
M: Let’s start with a few questions... 

1. Do you normally use your phone, desktop, or laptop to do health-related activities on VA.gov?
   Laptop

3. Tell me about the last time you used it. When was that? What did you use it for?
   Last night, I used My Health on VA.gov, and this is new. I didn’t get notifications for anything, appointments, or anything. I had to keep signing in to check. It has been over a year not to get notifications. But, for some reason, the phone worked. It won’t show any messages. I accessed it through Google on my phone. 

## Interview - 50 minutes 

M: Before I give you the task, talk me through what you are seeing on the screen - where does it make you think you are on the site?

P: Scrolling, looking at scheduling appt, on MHV, but I’d think I’m on the wrong place, My HealtheVet is no longer available.

### Task 1a - MR and SM

M: Imagine that you were recently put on blood thinner medication. Your doctor ordered blood tests two weeks after you started the medication to make sure that it is working. How would you go about seeing those results? It would really help me if you could talk me through what you are thinking. 

P: Once again, I don’t use My HealtheVet. I maybe a bad example for you guys. Over on My VA health, I would go to notes, and they had a blue tab or blue button. I could just click on that and would open up my most recent labs results. With what you’re showing me here, I’d say I’m on the wrong place. I would click on lab and test results. Ok, complete blood count.


**After participant finishes the task:**
M: What was helpful, and what wasn’t? Why?

P: It was really easy to find. It’s got everything. I like I can review the results on one page. But, I don’t know what HDB means.

## Task 1b - MR and SM

M: Let's say that you're not sure what the results mean because of the medical terminologies and you want to ask your doctor about it. Using the resources offered on this website, how would you go about doing that? It would really help me if you could talk me through what you are thinking

P: I’d probably go back up here to the message portion. Menu, maybe, or do I go back with the back button, maybe. I wanted to see messages under menu (quickly closed it), but not seeing it. Then, I’d go back (clicked back button) because I have seen it before (on MHV landing page).

### Task 2 - Appointments

For the next task, you need to make a new appointment with your new doctor, but you don't remember their name. You can check their name from your recent appointment visit. How would you would you go about finding their name on this website?

P: Clicked on back button, I think I saw appointments here.

M: So, you’re trying to get back to MHV, here? 
P: Yes, I’m looking for previous appointments (scroll MHV landing page), here, appointments, schedule and manage appointments, I’d look here (click manage appt, then past appointments). I want to go message my doctor from here (Clicked on back button to go to messaging on MHV). 

M: So, you’re using the back button again? 
P: Yes. 

M: Before we proceed to the next task (on inbox page), can you tell me what you think in this section means? 

P: information on what’s in this section? (laughing). (Opened in this section) So, (pause..) this is inbox. (Closed it) Let me go back out here. So, I mean, I’m not familiar with this, but might be a quicker way to get to draft or other things. 
  
### Task 3 - Medications
M: Imagine that you have taken a medication named TACROLIMUS for a while, and you want to check the expiration date for ordering refills for TACROLIMUS. How do you go about doing that from here? 

P: Ok, let’s see here. I’d probably have to find, once again, I’m not familiar with this. This is not going to be in the messages. So, I’d probably go up here to the menu. That would be my first guess. (menu and breadcrumbs don’t work on prototype) Clicked on Messages breadcrumbs – expect to get me out of messages, and go to another screen. Went back to MHV landing page (with back button), then medication and allergies. (Opened in this section on medication landing page) 

M: Why did you click on in this section? 

P: to see what’s in there, rather than scroll down, I thought I’d be a quick way to see what’s on the page. (scroll and read the about medications page, then clicked in this section to go the medications list) 

M: So, remind me, you used in this section to get here? 

P: Yes, just because in our brief use of this, that seems to be kind of like a menu bar. I’m not familiar with this, never used it before. That’s where I’d go to see generalized overview of what I’m looking for and hopefully find it faster than opening page after page. 

M: Do you find it helpful? 

P: Yes, in this case. So I just got about medication. And so I started scrolling down here and says about your prescription. I found the medicine that we wanted, and it tells me everything I needed to know.

### Task 4 - MR
M: Imagine you have an overseas trip coming up, and you need to download all your vaccines to prove that you're safe to travel. Where would you go to do that?

P: (clicked on breadcrumbs which led to wrong page MHV landing, clicked on medications, and “in this section” on medication list page to go to medical records, since prototype didn’t work, prompted to go to MHV landing page, then went to health history) 

M: (vaccines list) Where are you on the site? 

P: I’m on medical records (pointing to the breadcrumbs). 

### Other Questions: 
M: What do you think the differences are between the main and secondary menus (pointing them out)?

P: The main menu gets me to different sections, just in this section is what’s on here. Didn’t expect anything from the main menu, it’s way generalized from what I need, closed it. “In this section” on vaccines should be a breakdown of what’s in medical records, that makes sense after looking at the menu. 

The problem I see with all these prototypes and these improvements is teaching the vet how to use them. Because when you send something out like this. I'm going to spend about 5 or 10 min looking at this and go get frustrated and go. There's a bunch of crap, to get in the car and drive over to Clinton. Say, here's what I need.

M: Overall, how would you rate the experience of completing various health-related tasks? 1 being very difficult and 5 being very easy, and why? (if they have a hard time recalling, ask them to go back to the prototype and point out where).

P: Probably 2 and half. I don’t think it’s really any more difficult to navigate than my VA health or MHV. I’d have to actually use it to see for a while. If circumstance, circumstances came up that I was trying to find an answer to, and I couldn't find it. I'd say this is a one, you know, and if I was looking for my vaccine records. And I clicked on this section, and it said, Download vaccine record that. Say, that's a five.

