# Interview - 50 minutes

**M:** Before I give you the task, talk me through what you are seeing on the screen - where does it make you think you are on the site?  
**P:** Based on the flag I trust that – like that talk to the veterans crisis line – its laid out very well – it seems pretty clear what I want to accomplish  
*[Tries appointments]*  
**P:** It could use a back button [selects MHV breadcrumb] oh it has a one  

## Task 1a - MR and SM

**M:** Imagine that you were recently put on blood thinner medication. Your doctor ordered blood tests two weeks after you started the medication to make sure that it is working. How would you go about seeing those results? It would really help me if you could talk me through what you are thinking.  
**P:** Maybe menu? [selects main menu]  
*[note at this point moderator switched to sharing their screen – scrolling wasn’t working for participant]*  
**M:** Repeats task  
**P:** I would go to schedule and manage appointments.  
**P:** [Goes to appointments]  
**P:** I’m looking for the appointment for the doctor with lab results  
**P:** [instructs moderator] Keep going down  
*[scrolling through appointments]*  
**M:** I’d verify the appointment and then I’d be able to verify the test  
**M:** Reminds the task  
**P:** I don’t see anywhere it says lab results like the old page did  
*[confusion: P: thought the task was schedule appointment]*  
**M:** On this page how would you…  
**P:** Maybe go to In this section?  
**M:** What do you expect to see  
**M:** I’m hoping it would show what my appointments are for I need to find out about medications for blood records  
**P:** If I click on appointments  
**P:** Tells M. to pop open in this section  
**M:** Okay, so is this what you expected to see?  
**P:** I didn't really have an expectation. So now that I'm figuring out how it works, it'll be nice to see how smooth it runs. But yeah, so we'd go to medical records.  
**P:** Go to my lab test results  
**P:** Then the blood count  
**P:** Go to details for hematology  
**P:** That tells us everything we need to know. It tells me my blood panel is standard. Yeah, that tells you that's very informative.  

## Task 1b - MR and SM

**M:** Let's say that you're not sure what the results mean because of the medical terminologies and you want to ask your doctor about it. Using the resources offered on this website, how would you go about doing that? It would really help me if you could talk me through what you are thinking  
**P:** Directs M to select compose a message from the lab result screen  
**P:** [from the compose message screen] Then put whatever the doctor is, choose General question and what it is about and I assume the forward it to the triage people  
**M:** So it seems like you can ask your provider about any questions from here?  
**P:** Yes, ma'am, that seems pretty good.  

## Task 2 - Appointments

For the next task, you need to make a new appointment with your new doctor, but you don't remember their name. You can check their name from your recent appointment visit. How would you go about finding their name on this website?  
**P:** I’d go to [main] menu – or is it in this section?  
**M:** I hear you said, oh, I go to the menu, or in this section, tell me about your thought process here.  
**P:** I’m trying to decide we are trying to find a doctor we’ve only seen once so I’m thinking I could go to appointments then I’d find the doctor  
**M:** What would you expect in the menu?  
**P:** I expected more options in there – medications and medical records I didn’t expect that to be on there at all – it’s [the menu] is not telling you what’s going to be there  
**P:** If we are trying to find a doctor maybe the faster way would be through appointments  
*[directs M to click on in this section]*  
*[directs Click appointments]*  
*[directs Click on past]*  
**P:** Then I could see who I spoke with and when. Having the ability to access past appointments is a very good feature  
**M:** Would you normally do this?  
**P:** With this current setup I’m not sure what all I can do – there are some similarities between what I’ve seen in my healthy vet  
**P:** I think the menu is more helpful –  
**M:** which [menu] is more helpful?  
**P:** the menu tab [referring to main menu]. I think that's easier than the in the section tab. Its more generalized you can get where you are going easier.  
**M:** What is the difference between – menu and in this section?  
**P:** The menu is a lot broader. What VA categories you want to find out about.  
*[Directs to Open In this section]*  
**P:** you can find your way back to appointments, pending appointments, and past appointments. We're looking at past appointments. We found that.  

## Task 3 - Medications

**M:** Imagine that you have taken a medication named TACROLIMUS for a while, and you want to check the expiration date for ordering refills for TACROLIMUS. How do you go about doing that from here?  
**P:** Well, we need to find the pharmacy section first. So, maybe menu – I don’t think in this section had meds did it?  
*[p directs m – click on main menu] then Clear out of that – we’re ok – its not going to matter  
**M:** does this meet your expectation?  
**P:** its ok. Yeah, it’ll be ok for what we needed to do on that.  
**P:** I just need to find how to get access to pharmacy  
**P:** Click the VA icon I’d assume  
**P:** I don’t want nothing of this [arrives at VA landing page]  
**M:** What did you expect?  
**P:** I expected that to take us back to the various categories – pharmacy, clinics, medications so you can figure out who gave you what and when – on this screen I don’t see pharmacy  
**P:** I guess we could spell pharmacy where it says search  
**P:** Nothing on this screen is useful here  
**P:** I don’t see a link to get anywhere I want to be right now – all I can see is what it wants to show me and I can’t search so I’m at a loss.  
*[M navigates back to past appointments]*  
**M:** Do you think there is anything else you could do here to get to pharmacy?  
**P:** I don’t think there is anything I can do – we know in this section and past appointments isn’t telling us anything we need to know about pharmacy  
**P:** It’s either on the pill bottle itself or the pharmacy tab – or medications at all  
**M:** since we're stuck here as well, let me go back one level of before we ended up in past appointments.  
**P:** So okay, now, my healthy vet, that's a good place to start. [referencing breadcrumb on Appointments page]  
*[M. uses the MHV breadcrumb]*  
**P:** You could go to refill VA prescriptions – it should have an expiration date – is this a medication I already received?  
**M:** Restates task  
**P:** Go to Refill VA Prescriptions I think. and it should have the expiration date on it. Okay, you can see about when a prescription was written.  
**M:** It says the last time it was filled on June 3 and 2 refills left – he calculates that they usually expire two years later – I guess you could try to refill the prescription and it would tell you  
**P:** Can you click on the medication itself?  
**P:** There it is May 1, 2024 it expires  

## Task 4 - MR

**M:** Imagine you have an overseas trip coming up, and you need to download all your vaccines to prove that you're safe to travel. Where would you go to do that?  
**P:** Go to in this section and let's see if tells us about vaccines – because inoculations are medications aren’t they kind of? – I kind of lump them all together – let me see if you can go down any further – that’s good  
**M:** repeats the task – p is confused  
**P:** Go to menu [main menu] I thought when I clicked in medications I thought vaccinations would be there – maybe it would bring up other non-medications things – not sure if it’s a medication or if it’s a standalone item  
**M:** if vaccines is itself category is not part of medication, where would you go?  
**P:** In this section didn’t work, menu didn’t work – I thought maybe menu – in this section isn’t right so I'm not sure.  
**M:** Did you want me to click into in this section?  
**P:** I thought we did but okay. Appointments, medications, medical records [reading through items on menu] I’d go to medical records  
**P:** Scroll down – keep going – there we go Vaccines - go to your vaccines and then you’d print or download or just scroll down and show them  
**P:** That went pretty smooth  

### Other Questions:

**M:** Overall, how would you rate the experience of completing various health-related tasks? 1 being very difficult and 5 being very easy, and why? (if they have a hard time recalling, ask them to go back to the prototype and point out where).  
**P:** I’d give it a 4 – once you’ve figured out how to navigate – it’s just getting where you gotta get is a little difficult at first  
**M:** tell me a bit like where you were confused the most about how we how we could improve that  
**P:** On the menu screen it could have broader things to help you dial in – instead of medications  
**P:** We had difficulty finding the pharmacy – getting to the pharmacy was a little difficult  
**M:** let me go back to one of the sections. And I'm gonna ask you some specific questions here. So in this section, here on the lab and test result page where you found the blood test result right? What do you expect in the in this section menu here to do  
**P:** I’d expect to see blood pressure and then blood test results would have all those things – not much but apparently it’s in in this section  
**M:** opens in this sections menu  
**P:** That’s a lot better – if I’d have gone there earlier that would have been easier  
**M:** would you think Care summaries, notes allergies, vaccines, you know everything else Are they same similar on the similar category to lab and test results?  
**P:** These are on the same category – it doesn’t seem like that going into it – lab and test results cover quite a bit of stuff  
**M:** So you think everything underneath the blood test results is part of lab and test results  
**P:** – I guess it is – I didn’t think lab and test results have anything to do with vaccines - but that’s just me. Cause there, there's not a lab result. And it's not a test. It's it should be like medication area. I would think that's something that's been administered to you.  
*[confusion – p thinks lab and test results is a header]*  
**M:** go to another page. So now we're on medical records where you actually found the vaccines. And what do you think the In this Section menu will do for you?  
**P:** If it covers everything below it that would be great – there it is – that’s a lot easier ok yeah  
**M:** opens menu  
**M:** Does this make sense for you?  
**P:** O yeah, there it is. Okay. Yeah Yeah. That’s a lot easier.  
**P:** Now it does  
*[P starts naming off elements under medical records]*  
**P:** That's actually we're pretty easy menu to navigate. I must just been doing it backwards or something. But I see. Yeah, it's actually pretty forthright easy. From that right there that would be a pretty easy menu to navigate  
**M:** Did you expect to see appointments, messages, and medications under medical records? Yeah, actually, that's that's where it belongs. Yeah, that's good.

