
# Health Wayfinding Secondary Navigation - Research [11-20-2023-P1]

## Warm-up Questions - 5 minutes
M: Let’s start with a few questions. Do you normally use your phone, desktop, or laptop to do health-related activities on VA.gov?

* **P1: I normally use my laptop.**

M: Tell me about the last time you used it. When was that? What did you use it for? 

* **P1: I used My HealtheVet just a few days ago to look at my labs and see how they turned out.**
   
M: Now if you can share your screen. This prototype is designed for mobile phones,  so it may look a little bit small on your screen. Thanks for your patience in figuring that out. 

## Interview - 50 minutes 

M: Just as a reminder, this is a prototype, which means that it will behave differently than the actual website. You will be signed in as a testing user, named Judy. It’s a fake account with fake information, so you won’t see your name and your personal information. Not all of the links will work. As well, please do not use the back button in your browser as it will take you out of the prototype. There is a back button in the prototype that you can use to go back in the prototype. I'll show you when you open the link. 


### Task 1 (A & B) - Navigating from Medical Records to Messages 
M: Before we get started, could you tell me where you think you are on the website right now? 

* **P1: It looks like the main My HealtheVet page.**

M: Great, thank you for sharing that. Imagine that you were recently put on blood thinner medication. Your doctor ordered blood tests two weeks after you started the medication to make sure that it is working. How would you go about seeing those results? It would really help me if you could talk me through what you are thinking. 

* **P1: Okay, I'd go the menu** *[opens the mega menu]* **I'm used to doing this on my laptop where it is a lot bigger and i'd see more information. But I don't see anything on that main page for what I'm looking for.** 

M: What is it you're looking for? 

* **P1: I'm looking for my lab/test results, right?** 

M: Yes. 

* **P1: So I don't care anything about this other stuff so I'm looking for, so I'll skip that. Oh, here [in mega menu] I see something about lab/test results. Oh, but I can't click that.**

M: yeah, there are limitations here because it is a prototype and isn't a full website. Could you tell me the relationship between the menu and the page that you are on? 

* **P1: The relationship? I'm not sure what you mean. There is nothing on this page that is about what you asked me so I opened the menu to look more.** 

M: Could you try to explore the page a little bit more? 

* **P1: Oh, I can scroll down! Medications, health records, okay...I see lab and test results. See, I'm not used to seeing it in this format so I didn't know to scroll right away. If I was on my phone I probably would have done that.** 

M: That is understandable, probably not very intuitive. Okay, so just to go back to what you are doing here. You are trying to see the results of your blood test to see if the medication you have been on is working.

* **P1: Okay, so I click on lab and test results.** *[Clicks Review lab and test results in your records from the landing page]* **Here we go - complete blood count. I think that's what I want to look at. And it gives me the date and says 'chemistry and hematology' and I can look at the details of my blood count. And it gives me what was tested and where and all of that, and the results...hmmm there is some help here and then, oh! - here are the results of my blood tests.** 

M: Right, and it seems like you are on the right page ... are you on the right page to look at your blood test results? 

* **P1: Looks like I am, I mean I don't understand what I'm looking at because I'm not a doctor, but it looks like...**

M: [starts talking] oh, I'm sorry for interrupting.

* **P1: No, go ahead.**

M: So like you said, you may not know what is happening with these results, so how would you follow up with your provider to ask about that?

* **P1: Well I could call him up and ask him. But it says here I could go ahead and send him a secure message. I could send a message to my healthcare team.** 

M: Yeah, so do you think you could ask a question from this page? 

* **P1: Whoops, I hit the back button like a dummy. Let's go ahead and go back to where I was. Hmm..okay, there we go. So now I'm back. And I don't know what WBC is - so I'll go ahead and ask about that.** 

M: You don't have to enter anything into this screen here, I just wanted to understand what you might do. 

* **P1: Okay, so I could click on "ask question about a test/lab results" and add a subject to the message.** 

M: Okay, cool. So, this is the end of the first task I have for you. So, just thinking about this task and what you have done so far - from looking at your lab/test result to sending a secure message, do you think that's something that you would normally do? 

* **P1: Yes.**

M: Can you tell me more about that? When was the last time you had to do something like this? 

* **P1: Just a few days ago I had to check my lab/test results. I was interested . See, I've been on a special diet since December and I was really curious about how that's affected me and my chemistry. You know...since I've lost over 80 lbs. And so I wanted to make sure that everything is good. You know, my A1C and my cholesterol and all that. So I went to my HealtheVet and looked up my lab results so that I could see it myself.** 

M: Oh, thank you for that information - it is so important to know the context of what you would do normally. So what do you like about this task that you just did? Was it helpful? Or what was difficult when navigating? 

* **P1: Umm..it's not difficult at all. It's actually pretty intuitive. I'm just not used to seeing it in this format, like I said, I'm used to seeing it on my laptop. But you know, if I were to use it on my phone, this format would be great.** 

M: Okay, cool, that's really important to know that as well. Often there are a lot of problems with mobile, so we want to see how people navigate on mobile to see what the problem is, especially, so...cool...so moving on to the next task. 

### Task 2 - Appointments 

M: You need to make a new appointment with your new doctor, but you don't remember their name. You can check their name from your recent appointment visit. How would you would you go about finding their name on this website?

* **P1: Well, let's see** *[clicks Appointments list page, not past appointments - doesn't recognize she's referencing future appointments]* **from landing page. - it looks like I have an appointment with Anna Leigh Mason. It looks like my primary care is with that person, so I'd probably want to make an appointment with them.** 

M: what do you think about this list?

* **P1: Looks like there was some kind of video appointment with Anna Leigh Mason. If I click on details does it do anything? no, it doesn't. But the Primary Care appointment was at the VA medical center in person it look like. So that's probably who I would make an appointment with. But it's cool that it has the dates and the time and yeah, it shows me most of what I need to know.**

M: And is this something that you would normally do? 

* **P1: umm..no, not so much. I typically will just call and make an appointment with my local VA clinic here.** 

M: Okay, so this is not something that you've done frequently before?

* **P1: I've done it before, but this isn't my typical...I usually just pick up the phone and call them.** 


### Task 3 - Medications
(from where they left off) Imagine that you have taken a medication named TACROLIMUS for a while, and you want to check the expiration date for ordering refills for TACROLIMUS. How do you go about doing that from here? 

* **P1: What is the name of the medications again?** 

M: Tacrolimus

* **P1: Okay, so I would go back** *[returns to landing page].* **And what is it I want to know?** 

M: You want to check the expiration date of Tacrolimus. 

* **P1: The expiration date for ordering a prescription?** 

M: Correct, yes. 

* **P1: Okay, so I would go to "refill prescriptions"** *[from landing page*. **Okay, so this I have done before. Let's see...what to know about downloading records.** 

M: Oh, just wanted to repeat the name again.

* **P1: Yes, I was looking for it. What was it again?**

M: Tacrolimus.

* **P1: Tacrolimus, right here. Last refilled on June 3, 2023.** 

M: So you want to check the expiration date for ordering. 

* **P1: Hmm. the expiration date for ordering. I've never done that before. There is an expiration date for ordering? I didn't even know that. Hmm..let me back up.** *[uses prototype back button to go to landing page].*

M: Tell me what you're trying to do. 

* **P1: Hmm..maybe in medications and allergies. Well, it looks like its taking me to the same page.** 

M: So Do you think..

* **P1: So maybe I click on the medication itself? Last filled June 3rd. ...about my prescription...here we go. 2 refills late. Here we go, order by this prescription expiration date. Here we go there is the expiration date.** 

M: Cool, yeah that is the expiration date we are looking for. So, I see as we are navigating thorugh this task I notice you clicked on the back button a lot. Could you tell me why you did that? 

* **P1: Umm..just easier for me to go back to a familiar screen to look for a menu item that I might have missed. I don't know how to** ....*[trails off].* **Umm...I guess I could click on here [points to < medications breadcrumb]. I wouldn't always use a back button normally. I might to the menu itself [references mega menu] to go wherever I need to go. In a normal situation I would probably go to the menu itself** *[referencing mega menu].*

M: Could you point me to the menu you mean? I had trouble seeing that. 

* **P1: Up here** *[points to mega menu button].* 

M: Got it, that's helpful to know that. Another thing I want to know from you is, do you see the "in this section"....do you see the bar on top of the TACROLIMUS medication name. It is labeled as "in this section"? 

* **P1: Yes**

M: What do you think that does? 

* **P1: I don't know. I could click on it and find out, I guess.**

M: What do you expect? 

* **P1: Umm. What do I expect?** 

M: Yeah, what do you think that is? 

* **P1: I'm not sure.**

M: If you click. Yeah, click it - feel free to see if you can click on that. 

* **P1: Okay, so...in this section....so...I'm in About medications it looks like** *[is actually on medications list view page]* **and I can go to Medical Records or Messages or Appointments from this page I guess. But I didn't know what to expect. It's not apparent to me what would be in here from that "In this section."** 

M: What is confusing or not intuitive about this? That makes you wonder like "I have no idea what this does." 

* **P1: Well, apparently now all these options like Medications, Messages, Medical Records, and Medications are all in one section because it says in one section. So there are other sections apparently that don't include these things .But it wasn't apparent to me that it's sectioned off like that.** 

* **P1: I understand now, but before clicking that I didn't know what it meant.** 

M: And what do you think the differences are between this "in this section" menu and the first menu that you wanted to click? The one that's on top.

* **P1: Okay, what I think the difference is now is that in this big menu** *[pointing to site mega menu]* **would include everything, or at least pointers to every section in My HealtheVet. Does that make sense?** 

M: Yes.

* **P1: Whereas this "in this section" would just include these things within my HealtheVet. That's what I would expect now that I'm looking at it.** 


### Task 4 - MR 
M: Imagine you have an overseas trip coming up, and you need to download all your vaccines to prove that you're safe to travel. Where would you go to do that?

*[Notetaker lost internet connection and missed notes on this task]*


**OVERALL Qs**
M: How would you rate the ease of the experience 1-5?  
* **P1: for the most part its really easy - maybe a 4.**
* **P1: I just didn't understand the relationship between the big menu and in this section but once I understood that - in this section has to do with MhV that made it clearer. Getting around is pretty easy.**

Note: [LL: Note the in this section menu is different in Vaccines then in MR but she doesn't note that]

* **P1:** *[Says she didn't understand what "in this section" meant - suggests MyHealtheVet menu that would have been more helpful to me.]* **That is really what it is isn't it.** 

Note: [LL: Explores the In this section] 

* **P1: If I went somewhere else on VA.gov and I went to look at disability and I wanted to go then to My HealtheVet - I should be able to get there from this big menu?** 

M: Yes. 

* **P1: I think if this** *[points to "in this section" secondary nav]* **showed My HealtheVet or whatever section I happen to be in, that would be helpful.**

## Thank You and Closing - 1 minute

M: I want to circle back and re-confirm with you that you are comfortable if we were to share a video clip of this session with our VA partners. Just to remind you, we will remove all information that could be used to identify you before sharing, and will only share the videos with VA partners with the purpose of improving VA.gov and other digital experiences.

M: Well, we really appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us today. Your feedback is so helpful to us as we continue to learn about Veterans so we can improve the online tools that we provide.

M: Thank you so much again, and I hope that you enjoy the rest of your day!

