# Warm-up Questions - 5 minutes
- M: Let’s start with a few questions...
  1. Do you normally use your phone, desktop, or laptop to do health-related activities on VA.gov?
  2. Tell me about the last time you used it. When was that? What did you use it for?

## Interview - 50 minutes
- M: Great, now the fun part begins. I'd like you to know that I will share a prototype link with you during our chat today. I will put the link in the Zoom chat.
  - Just as a reminder, this is a prototype, which means that it will behave differently than the actual website. You will be signed in as a testing user, named Judy. It’s a fake account with fake information, so you won’t see your name and your personal information. Not all of the links will work. As well, please do not use the back button in your browser as it will take you out of the prototype. There is a back button in the prototype that you can use to go back in the prototype. I'll show you when you open the link. [sends link to prototype in Zoom chat]
- M: So, today you are going to perform some healthcare-related activities with this prototype. I will be giving you a couple of healthcare-related activities, and please use this prototype to walk me through how you'd complete the activities.
- M: Before I give you the task, talk me through what you are seeing on the screen - where does it make you think you are on the site?
  - P4: I think I’m in a subsection of the VA’s benefit I’m in the MyHealth section. I’m guessing its tailored and structured, based on my preferences that I have set on how I want things to show up. But I’m guessing at that.
- M: Are you a regular My HealtheVet user?
  - P4: Yes, I have regular appointments at the va – I use it to communicate with 3 separate health providers

### Task 1a - MR and SM
- M: Imagine that you were recently put on blood thinner medication...
  - P4: I’d go to Health records lab and test results – And that's my blood count right there. [scrolls and sees blood test clicks details] – I’d review them “that’s pretty easy actually”
- M: Are you on the right page to look at your blood test results?
  - P4: Yes, okay, I do.
  - P4: I’m surprised the dates don’t match This is the date collected with October third and the previous, said April. 
- M: Could you go back to the blood test results?
  - P4: That wasn't very easy. I backed out twice, but I lost them, so I have to go find them again.
  - [Uses breadcrumb medical records to navigate back]
- M: Is that something you would normally do when you're checking your test results
  - P4: It's something I would normally do that I would expect it to go back to the previous
  - P4: I would expect it to go back to the previous directory in your workflow – the page I was on before – if I hit back button. I expect to go back to the one prior – from an operations analysis standpoint

### Task 1b - MR and SM
- M: Let's say that you're not sure what the results mean because of the medical terminologies...
  - P4: Well, let me review them and see what options are available, but I’d want to send an email on the secure email system and either attach the report or maybe I could send an email about this
  - [Goes to compose a message]
  - P4: I mean, the workflow might provide an opportunity to send an email directly about this. Ideally that would be related to these specific test results so I don’t have to upload that report. It optimally, would create a message with the right subject line and the right test results already pre populated.
  - LL: cool idea re pre-population
- M: Could you show me how you would do that?
  - [Taps compose a message]
  - P4: I’d put in re: date, test results, then I’d write a message – And then I can just say, Hey, I have a question about my Wbc, can you help me? Yeah.
  - P4: Yeah. So for the designers, though, now that I'm in the email section, It appears I have to stay in the email section – So my back button takes me backwards to messages instead of backwards to test results.
  - P4: I left test result but when I’m done here I might want to go back to test results – I thought it would be easy to get back
- M: actually, could you show me how how you get back. I just wanna see.
  - P4: I’d go to menu [indicates main menu] and maybe health records is one of the menu items – then I’d go navigate down to the test results again
- M: And are you saying that the menu would get you back to the starting point?
  - P4: [the main menu] It would give me a selection of all the first tier level options And one of them is probably health records. I’m guessing.
- M: does the menu button work?
  - P4: no
- M: Do you see this in the in this section bar?
  - P4: That’s just going to give me messages
  - [taps on in this section]
  - P4: Oh, no, it gives me medic…. Oh, look at that. Okay. So I didn't expect that. I  expected it to be emails only – 
- M: Did you see that before I pointed it out
  - P4: yes I saw it

- M: why didn’t you click into it?
  - P4: I didn’t click it because in this section to me is email. And I didn't want to send myself back to email. I wanted to send myself back to the first tier of my health vet. so I assumed that menu would bring me back to the first tier
- M: And then, now that you're able to see what was you know actually in this section, which is not what you expect it. Do do you think if you knew this sooner? Would this be helpful for you to navigate to the other parts?
  - P: This is helpful but the text [label] “in this section” did not ring with me
  - LL: Label – in this section maybe needs to change

### Task 2 - Appointments
- M: For the next task, you need to make a new appointment with your new doctor...
  - P4: Well, I know I can get there via this in the section. So I'm gonna go here. I'm gonna go to appointments. 
  - [Goes to appointments via submenu]
  - P4: I'm gonna look at previous appointments. So I'll hit past. 
  - [Uses Past link] 
  - P4: I'm gonna go find I got Hoffman. I got [names doctors]. So which one is it?
  - [Finds past – previous appointments - notices the dates aren’t chronological]
- M: Let's see. How do. How did you find the experience navigating from the message to here
  - P4: As long as I knew to go to in this section and that it would can contain…
  - [taps in this section]
  - P4: So that's kinda weird. So now I'm in appointments, and now in this section gave me only appointments, which is a different workflow than in this section gave me in messages. so II am confused by what in this section tells me, because now it's different sitting in appointments. This workflow is different than the workflow if I was in emails. 

### Task 3 - Medications
- M: Imagine that you have taken a medication named TACROLIMUS for a while...
  - P4: So I have to find my prescription list
  - [scrolls all the way down the appointments page]
  - P4: so I based on what you taught me earlier, I should be able to go to in this section and find them. But that is not gonna get me there. So I'll go to menus. 
  - [taps on main menu]
  - [taps on healthcare]
  - [sees option for refill and track your prescriptions but its not clickable]
  - [clicks breadcrumb - Appointments]
  - P4: I’ll Go back to appointments 
  - [taps In this section]
  - P4: and try in this section
  - [Taps Medications from “in this section”]
  - P4: So that workflow worked
  - [Easily finds the medication and expiration date]

- M: is that something you would normally do for yourself in terms of checking medications. Or..
  - P4: Yes I do that all the time on the current website
- M: what did you think about this experience navigating from once I got to the medication list?
  - P4: Once I got to the medication list it was easy
- M: And what did you do to find the medication list?
  - [p steps through process again – goes back to main appointments list – taps on in this section]
  - P4: Oh this is different – I got in to appointments and now I have all the tier one options but before I didn’t have them
- M: What do you think about that? What was confusing?
  - P4: It was different than what I expected and different than what was in messages
- M: So by clicking on in this section from this appointment list what did you expect?
  - P4: So I'm in appointments. I’m in past appointments I’ve got upcoming, pending and past. So I think I'm in appointments. So if I go to in this section, I expect to get options related to appointments – which I did. So this is more intuitive to me than the message

### Task 4 - MR
- M: Imagine you have an overseas trip coming up, and you need to download all your vaccines to prove that you're safe to travel. Where would you go to do that?
  - [Back arrow to myhealthevet]
  - P4:  So I’m guessing its in health history – its not lab and test results
  - P4: I went to lab and test results back to medical records and now it gives me all my records
  - P4: This section was not available in the first tier of options
  - P4: If I go back I get medical records – like a landing page
  - !!note maybe prototype problem
  - LL: Does Health history = medical records? The headings in the prototype don’t match if so
- M: Walk me back through that again?
  - P4: Well, I went to health records, so I went backwards again. I went to health records. I went to Lab.
  - [from MHV landing] I don't see an option to review my records. I just simply see a download blue button which is available right now. So I went to lab and test results, and it does not. It only gives me lab results. So then I went backwards to medical records, and now it gives me all my records and vaccines. Which is it? Was not. This section was not available in the first tier of options.
- M: What did you expect?
  - P4: So I expected to be able to get this [medical records list] on the first workflow, which should have been right there.
- M: could you go into the vaccines and make sure that that's exactly what you're looking for for this activity.

## Other Questions:
- M: Overall, how would you rate the experience of completing various health-related tasks? 1 being very difficult and 5 being very easy, and why? (if they have a hard time recalling, ask them to go back to the prototype and point out where).
  - P4: 3 – its not hard because everything is available
  - P4: I expected to be able to navigate up and down the tiers – This workflow was not smooth in navigating up and down - it jumped – I would have expected a workflow that let me navigate up and down or jump in an intuitive way – I couldn’t’ tell I was jumping
- M: How do you want to navigate so you would have that tiered flow
  - [p points to va logo]
  - P4: I see VA -  I think the menu [points to main menu] will take me to options on tier 1 on the va site
  - P4: I think the [medical records breadcrumb] back button will take me back one tier to medical records and it does – that worked the way I expected
  - P4: I expect the my healthevet
  - P4: I think there should be a myhealthe vte on main menu – I’m guessing its life insurance and maybe claims
  - P4: Its not quite that – its close
  - P4: The back button [breadcrumb] should have taken me back to the list or I should be navigating one step up or down in the workflow and the menu to give me the option to jump and it does give me that
  - LL: In MR he sees what he expects – 
  - P4: I expect to see the things I know to be in my medical records
- M: Was there one that was more helpful to you to assist your navigation experience?
  - P4: No – depending on my purpose all three would be useful
  - P4: In this section is probably less useful – looks like I can page up and down – I’ve seen this before – like with FAQ – there is a hyper link to go 5 or 6 screens down when really I can just page down
  - LL: I know you'd like the tiered navigation right like I can go back to the next thing and back to the next thing. But you also talked about the ability to make a jump right as long as it was logical. So if you if you tap on the in this section from this page does do these jumps feel logical?
  -So let's look at this menu click on the in this section again.
  - P4: this is different. So this version of the in this section is different. It actually gives me a back arrow to go back to medical records, which is the same as what's on the main page.
- LL: So so what are your thoughts about that is that…?
- P4:I don't think this back to medical records is a necessary hyperlink on this particular function.
- P4:  If you know you've already shown me that the methodology here for in this section, if I hit this, it's going to give me where I am, and all the options.
- P4: So hyper jump down to that right. But but right now I'm in lab and test results. And this is all my test results right? It's just a list of my test results. So if I'm in this section, I expect to see all my test results. not the next tier up, which looks like what this is. But if I go back to here a while, this didn't give me what I expected.
- So this is what I expect, this, this, actually, this is what I would expect. So in this section of medical records, it's giving me all of the different things I can search in medical records, and then it's also giving me the next tier up so I can jump to something else in the tier above me that that's actually a useful functionality. There, I just don't know if it should be. I don't know if it should be under here, or if it should be up there.
- P4: But I like, I like that functionality.

