# 526 Self-Service Claims for Increase 01-18-2018, 12:30pm, Tonya (P1)

[Session report](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/blob/master/products/disability/526ez/research/jan-2018/notes/p1-session-report.md)

## Session transcription

**Moderator (M): *Introduction to session (pre-recording)***

**M: First off, tell me a bit about, I just want to spend a few minutes talking about your experience with filing a disability claim with the VA before. Tell me, How long after your separation from service did you file a claim?**

Participant 1 (P1): It was about 2 years. 2, 2-3 years. 

**M: Ok, great and Tell me what prompted you to file it?**

P1: I learned that when I originally joined the, thought I joined the VA and started filing that I really hadn’t. *Laughs*

**M: Oh, ok. So what was, tell me more about that confusion then. What happened when you thought you filed and you hadn’t?**

P1: I was, you know they didn’t give you much information leaving the military and I was medically retired from the military and I thought that kind of just transitioned over to the VA. I didn’t realize I had to reapply to the VA since I had already done it in the military. So It wasn’t until that happened that I was like "oh...". It wasn't until I got really sick and needed to be in the VA system that I learned that you have to actually go through the VA to get a benefits package and to get a doctor assigned and all that good stuff. 

**M: Yeah, it sounds like a bit of a hassle. I’m sorry that you had that experience. So then How did you finally learn that you didn't actually, that you had to apply separately to the VA?**

P1: I actually got really, really, really sick and was in-patient at another outside VA facility trying to get into the VA when my mom was trying to get me transferred over to the VA and in that process we learned, ok, I wasn’t in the VA system at all. 

**M: Ok. And then, so I mean I imagine it sounds as if you had some help from your family. What was the process when you did apply?**

P1: It was a very long and arduous procedure. From the date of my applying till my package had been assigned a percentage was almost 2 years. 

**M: Ok.**

P1: And it was a very complicated, not [unclear] out, I mean it was, we were going to everybody trying to get help and we weren't getting much help.

**M: Yeah, 2 years is quite a long time. So which sources did you go to?**

P1: Well, we were going through the regional office.

**M: So a regional VA office?**

P1: Yeah, the regional VA office. then we had to go to some veteran service organization to get help. And we were with some of the veteran service officers that they had in the VA, the hospital side. And we were doing everything to try to figure out are we doing it right, why it’s not going through. You know some words aren’t right on my [inaudible] if you use these certain words and yeah. 

**M: Yeah, ok. Did you consider filing for your disability online?**

P1: No one even mentioned that to us. We didn’t know that was an option. 

**M: Ok. Alright. So then...**

P1: It wasn’t until the very end, actually, that someone mentioned “oh you can go check the status of it online”.

**M: Ok. If you had found out about being able to apply online or to file for your claim online would that be appealing to you or not?**

P1: Most definitely. 

**M: Ok. And...**

P1: It would have saved us a lot of time.

**M: Yeah, I'm sure. A lot of trips to the VA regional office and your VSO.**

P1: Yeah. 

**M: Alright. So you mentioned I think you mentioned your mother was it that helped you out with the application process?**

P1: Yes.

**M: Did you have help from anyone else, any other friends or family?**

P1: Well, it was really my mom doing most of the leg work. 

**M: Ok. Well, thank you for sharing that experience with us. I’m sorry that it was such a burdensome and time-consuming process. 2 years is no picnic. And that’s really unfortunate that you didn’t find out about the ability to apply online until the very end but so like I said, I'm part of a team working on the Vets.gov website and we're trying to streamline a part of the disability application process so one thing that may or may not be relevant to you in the future is updating claims, updating existing claims for disability compensation increases. So that’s what we're going to talk through using this web prototype.**

P1: Ok.

**M: So for this section we're going to shift gears a little bit. I'll show you, well are you able to see my screen?**

P1: Yes. 

**M: Ok and let me just a couple of things. I'll it's a clickable prototype. Some parts are functional some parts are not so we may have to talk through some of it but I'm going to give you keyboard and mouse control in a second so you'll be able to operate the prototype showing on my screen. And I'm going to ask you to please think aloud. We really want to understand what you're thinking, what you see on each of the screens, state your reactions so we can learn from them. So let me give you keyboard and mouse control here. And if you would try to move the mouse around on my screen...Ok, yeah. Looks like you've got it. Great. So first off, imagine you’ve been feeling like one of the conditions you’re rated for has become more severe, and you think it’s time to update your rating at VA to account for the worsening. Show me what steps you would take on this prototype.**

P1: Umm. I’m guessing I would click on the “Apply for compensation” (breadcrumb)

*Moves mouse over text “Apply for compensation”*

**M: Ok and which, I know it's listed in a couple of places, but where exactly would you click? And you can click and it should come through.**

P1: Ok, I figure you have to sign in first. Right?

**M: Um sure, so you’d click on the sign in up there first?**

P1: Yes.

**M: Ok. So that’s actually not linked up, but that’s good to know. What information do you think you need?**

P1: I’m assuming your SSN and all the documentation you would have for your disability getting worse. Your doctors and their contact information maybe. 

**M: Ok. Were you going to say something else?**

P1: No, no I think that’s about it to start off the process. 

**M: Ok. One thing to note, in case you’re trying to scroll you should be able to click and drag so that you can scroll the screen. So try that out. scrolls Yeah, there you go.**

P1: Ok.

**M: And tell me what you see here.**

P1: I didn’t even think about the bank account information.

**M: Ok. yeah, we’ll talk about that in a little bit. I know you mentioned you would sign in first. So after you’ve signed in what would your next step be here.**

P1: Click on the “Apply for compensation” 

*Clicks green button towards bottom*

**M: Ok, you can go ahead and click on that.**

*Next page loads*

**M: Alright. So, what do you think these options mean?**

P1: Ok. The first one, if this is your first time applying for a disability. The next one if you want to add to your disabilities--something new or it's a condition that you have that's getting worse or something. And then the last one is if you want to appeal a decision. 

**M: Ok, great, so with the scenario that you've got a condition that's become more severe which would you choose for this?**

*Clicks second one*

P1: And then this one 

*Selects bottom option “one or more…”*

**M: How long would you expect the entire application process to take?**

P1: Hopefully faster than the last time laughs

**M: Yeah, 2 years is a low bar, so. Outside from that I sincerely hope it would be shorter than 2 years as well. Aside from that. How long do you expect to spend on this series of questions?**

P1: I guess depending on how many issues you’re trying to add on or they got worse or whatever. I don’t know, 20-30 mins.

**M: Ok, great. So at this step I know you mentioned that you would have signed in before. I believe if you signed in before you would be able to skip this step but this is what you'd see if you hadn't signed in yet and you made those choices that you made before. So we can go through the process there. Tell me about what you’re seeing with these buttons.**

P1: Pardon me?

**M: Tell me about what you’re seeing with these options, these buttons and what are your thoughts?**

P1: I would think the first one isn't that with your military ID card, so if you’re still active duty you would use that one. 

**M: Umm...**

P1: Go ahead.

**M: What was that? Go ahead.**

P1: That’s what I’m guessing the first one is, but I’m not sure. 

**M: Umm, yeah I think that's right but I'm actually not sure either. I'm fairly new.**

P1: I know the second one is the MHV which is awesome because it’s easy. 

**M: Ok.**

P1: And then the ID.me, that’s another one of those vet sites if you logged in before you can log in with. 

**M: Ok. Do you have concerns at this stage?**

P1: No, I mean this is I guess with all these options that you have you cover the gambit. 

**M: Ok. Which option would you choose to sign in?*

P1: Personally I would choose the MHV but that’s just because I don’t remember my ID.me password. 

**M: Ok. Alright so I'll let you click that and continue on.**

*Clicks MHV login option*

**M: So you would have entered your username and password, but we just skipped to that step. Is this what you’d expect to see at this step? assuming it was your information?**

P1: Yes. 

**M: Ok. So I’ll let you continue forward.**

*Scrolls*

**M: So at this point why do you think the VA is asking these questions?**

P1: Because these are the standard questions when you see a new doctor. These are the standard questions they always ask you. 

**M: Ok.**

P1: Or if you call into the VA, they always ask about if you’re in a crisis. 

**M: Alright. What do you think would happen if you were in one of those situations and you selected one?**

P1: I would hope somebody would contact you about it.

**M: Ok. And if none of the above applied and you continued on, what do you think would happen then?**

P1: It would move on to the next step of applying I guess. 

**M: Ok, no change, no big deal just go to the next step. Ok, so I'll let you...what do you do next?**

*Clicks continue*

**M: Ok. Tell me about what you’re seeing here.**

P1: Ok, so this is just confirming your contact information in the VA.

**M: Ok. And what would you do if that is your current address but you were moving soon, say you’re moving next month?**

P1: add a forwarding address. 

**M: Ok I think that's not built out in the prototype yet, but that's good to know.  Assuming you added in your forwarding address I'll let you go on to the next step now.**

*Clicks continue, scrolls*

**M: Is this what you expected here?**

P1: No, but it’s nice they have that already in there. 

**M: Ok, yeah.**

P1: I always hate going back to look up what actual day it was that I joined. 

**M: Yeah, I'm sure that's hard to remember.**

P1: Normally at this point, I’d be off running, trying to find my DD214.

**M: Right. Ok, so it would pre-populate it like this having logged in. I'll let you go on then.**

*Clicks continue*

**M: Great, so why do you think you’re being asked for this information?**

P1: Umm…I’m assuming just to confirm that if you get a benefit increase because of going through this process then they want to make sure that they have the right account.

**M: Would you have any concerns about proving bank account information?**

P1: I like that it’s kind of blanked out like it is. Say I’m not on my personal computer, say I was in like the library or something like that, I wouldn't want everyone having my bank account information. So, it’s nice that it’s blanked out. 

**M: Yeah, that makes sense. So then, as far as the VA having your bank account information do you have any concerns about that?**

P1: No because they have to have it like if you get travel pay or if you already have a condition set up, since this is about a worsening condition then they would have to have it. 

**M: Yeah, that makes sense. Ok. So I’ll let you go on to the next step then.**

*Clicks continue*

**M: Alright, so for this step, the scenario is so these would be the conditions that you have been rated for hypothetically and suppose that at your most recent doctor's visit your doctor noted that your PTSD has worsened. So what would you do here?**

P1: Oh [inaudible]

**M: It wouldn't in the real site but it's just a shortcut in the prototype. So you'd have to click those boxes.**

P1: Ok, so just the first 2?

**M: Right.**

P1: Ok. 

*Clicks continue*

**M: So tell me what this is telling you.**

P1: Ok, give me a second to read. 

*Scrolls and reads*

P1: Ok, this is just saying that the next step where they can go to find records of the treatment. 

**M: Ok, so do you have all the information that you need to proceed at this point.**

P1: Hopefully you would have all the information by here.

**M: And what information do you think you’d need then?**

P1: Here’s where I would have a question. Do I have to have like VA doctors where it’s going? Or would the VA RO already check your VA doctors or is this just for outside doctors?

**M: What do you think given what you've seen so far and what what you’re seeing here?**

P1: I would like to think that they already have the VA documents. I mean they have everything else from the VA records so far.

**M: If you’re being seen by a VA doctor, you think they would already have those records?**

P1:  Yeah.

**M: Ok**

P1: So this would be for any outside doctors. 

**M: Ok, good. That's helpful**

*Clicks continue*

P1: Well, there you go. 

**M: So what is this telling you?**

P1: Since you’ve received your rating, where have you gotten treatment? So I'm guessing this could be either or both?

**M: Ok. So, suppose it for your PTSD you’ve been treated at a VA medical center.**

*Selects VA medical center*

**M: And then what’s this that just appeared here?**

P1: That’s just which VA medical center. 

**M: So then what would you do next?**

*Clicks continue*

**M: What do you see here? What are your thoughts?**

P1: Alright, that makes it easier. They’ll go get this information.

**M: Was that how you expected this to work or was there anything surprising about this?**

P1: No, that’s surprising that they’ll go do that work for you. 

**M: Ok. Do you find that helpful or do you have any...?**

P1: Oh yeah, that makes it a lot easier. 

**M: Ok. Yeah, it may save you some time. I’ll let you go to the next step now. **

*Clicks continue*

**M: What are you seeing here?**

P1: Ok, it’s the same as before for where have you been treated. 

**M: So for this...I can go back.**

P1: I don’t like that you have to pick one or the other. It should be you should be able to pick both. 

**M: Yeah, that's a good point. **

P1: Because If a lot of veterans who are in the same boat as I am, I have TRICARE also. So I can be treated for the same condition both inside the VA and outside the VA.

**M: Right. Have you been seen both inside the VA and outside the VA for one of your rated conditions?**

P1: Yes ,I have.

**M: Ok, so it would certainly be helpful to choose both.**

P1: And my doctors talk to each other, like they will send letters to each other and...so.

**M: Tell me why do you go to both the VAMC and a private doctor?**

P1: Because I see a specialist for my condition. A neurologist that actually specializes in my condition, whereas in the VA they have general practitioner neurologists. 

**M: Ok.**

P1: And so it’s just to get better focus on my illness, someone who deals with my illness on a daily basis and everything that my outside the VA doctor recommends or states or whatever I bring that paperwork to either my primary care provider or my VA neurologist

M: Ok.

P1: And then they put it in my records or agree then prescribe me the medicine. 


**M: So your PCP will do prescriptions based on the specialists information?**

P1: Yes.

**M: Ok, that makes sense. That's certainly nice that they are able to share records easily.**

P1: Yes.

**M: Ok. So in this scenario suppose you were treated for the intervertebral disc syndrome by a private doctor. So what are your thoughts about this?**

P1: That makes it easier for them to go get the records than me having to get the records, bring the records in.

**M: Alright.**

P1: Because last time that's what I had to do then they lost the records that I brought in. 

**M: Oh, Oh that’s terrible.**

P1: Yeah.

**M: Ok. Alright so I'll let you go on to the next step.**

*Clicks continue*

**M: What is this asking you?**

P1: Ok, this is the release of information paperwork that you have to fill out for them to give anything. 

**M: Ok. Do you have all the information you need for these?**

P1: I would hope you’d have it.

**M: Feel free to scroll around to see what all it’s asking.**

P1: Ok, yeah, this is...I’ve seen the paper version of this, so. This is all standard even on a civilian doctor, if you want them to really share information you have to fill this out.

**M: Ok, alright.**

P1: So yeah.

*Clicks continue*

**M: So why do you think you’re seeing this?**

P1: If you have other supporting documents I don’t know what other supporting documents they would be. 

**M: That's a good point. What might you guess you would want to add as a supporting document?**

P1: I wouldn't know after it. It was so thorough leading up to this point, I wouldn't know what other documents you would need. 

**M: Ok. So what would you do if you were filling this out?**

P1: I would just click no.

*Clicks no. Clicks continue*

**M: So what are your thoughts here?**

P1: Alright, so this is just to review everything before sending it in. Scrolls. So I would you would go through and look at each of these categories. I'd hit the little plus symbol I'm assuming. 

*Scrolls down*

**M: Yeah, so I don't think that that's marked up but that would be the idea.**

P1: Yeah, yeah. And that’s at the bottom of every paperwork at the VA, the regional office. 

**M: Ok. You’re very familiar with this process after your experience I'm sure.**

P1: Yeah. Then... continue.

*Clicks submit*

P1: And ta-da. Wow! That was easy.

**M: Ok, yeah I was going to ask, you know. What were your thoughts on that process and how did that compare to your expectations?**

P1: I thought it was a lot easier than I thought it would be. I mean, it’s really straight forward in getting the information for you. It takes a lot of the confusion out of it. 

**M: Great, do you have any concerns about what you just filled out or about the process or anything else?**

P1: No, I think it makes it very straight forward and easy. 

**M: Ok, great. So one thing I wanted to draw your attention to here is the effective date. What are your thoughts about that?**

P1: Ok, so your application is effective the day you apply. So if there is any back pay do you on however long it takes the system to get your approval completed you're paid to that effective date. 

**M: So what would you do with the information on this screen?**

P1: I would save it. 

**M: Ok. Tell me why you would save it.**

P1: For my own records

**M: What would prompt you to save it? What would you hope to be able to do with it?**

P1: I guess because I’m kind of used to the VA losing paperwork and documents. My entire military medication medical records. For my own safety I would certainly save a copy of this page. 

**M: Yeah, that's certainly understandable after your experience that we just talked about. So what do you think would happen at this next point?**

P1: After this point you just wait. 

**M: Ok.**

P1: I mean that everything is submitted and in. and now you just wait to hear back from the VA on their on their decision.

**M: And how would you expect to hear back?**

P1: The way they used to do it is you would get a big, yellow, manila envelope in the mail. One day it would magically come in the mail and hopefully you're happy and excited that it came. 

**M: Yeah, alright. One more other thing on this screen. Did you notice the “find out what happens after you apply"? What do you expect to see if you followed that link?**

P1: Umm...I don’t know. Well...I don't know. I mean, It could tell you be patient, wait. *Laughs*

**M: Ok, well. I have a couple of follow up questions for you based on the previous steps that we went through. Let me take you back a couple of steps here.**

*Navigates back to "Treatment records" page*

**M: So, this is after you identify which VA medical center or which doctors you're going to for your medical records. You mentioned you wouldn't have any supporting documents. Do you feel like you're missing any more or does it make you anxious at all that you didn't have any support documents?**

P1: I guess I would worry a little because then I’d start thinking are there any other documents I should have besides my doctor’s notes? 

**M: Ok.**

P1: It makes...It would make me feel that I should have supporting, more supporting documents somewhere. But I have no idea what those supporting documents would be.

**M: Yeah, that would make sense. Alright. So, just to jump back a couple more steps.**

*Navigates back to "Claim type selection" page*

**M: So here's close to where we started and we're choosing what your situation was. So let me give you a different scenario. If we go back to the beginning, instead of your previous conditions having gotten worse, suppose that you’ve gotten a decision and you wanted to address the decision made from the VA without providing more information, which would you choose?**

P1: I would choose to appeal but in order to appeal you have to have more information to appeal it, you can’t just appeal this decision. 

**M: ok, yea that makes sense. So if you did want to appeal and maybe you have some information to support that, I’ll let you go go ahead and click then.**

*Clicks appeal option and continue*

**M: So what’s this step telling you?**

P1: Oh that they, that they can't, you can't do your appeal on this software. 

**M: What are your thoughts about that?**

P1: That’s kind of sucky. *Laughs*

**M: Oh yeah.**

P1: Because it was easy working in this program. 

**M: Yeah, um, so what would you do at this point if you came to a step like this?**

P1: Go to eBenefits.

**M: Ok. So that’s actually not linked, but…**

P1: Oh

**M: from there it would link to eBenefits which is a separate site. You mentioned it was easy doing the process that you did on this software. It sounds as though maybe you would rather be able to file for an appeal through here as well. What has your experience been like on eBenefits and what do you expect the process to be like on eBenefits?**

P1: Oh, a little bit more cumbersome than this…

**M: Ok. Alright. Well, so those are all the steps that we have in the prototype. Actually let me take you back. So in the process that we went through originally where you choose [inaudible]. You went through this way. You got to this confirmation screen. **

*Goes back to confirmation screen *

**M: Do you think that there would be any additional exams needed?**

P1: Umm...I don’t know. 

**M: Ok. If the VA called you to and wanted to...**

P1: I'm sorry, you're kind of blurring up a little bit. 

**M: I'm sorry about that. It might be my internet connection. We'll see if it gets better. I'm not sure there is much I can do about it but, but what would your thoughts be if the VA called and said you need to schedule an exam for your claim?**

P1: That’s about normal.

**M: Ok. Yeah, so this is you might expect that to be [inaudible].**

P1: Yeah. 

**M: Yeah, alright. So that's all the questions that I have for you about the screens here. Thank you for walking through them with us and thank you again for sharing your experience about your previous claim. So based on what we’ve been through and talked about do you have any other questions or comments about what you’ve seen?**

P1: No, it seems like a pretty sweet system.

**M: Yeah...**

P1: and like it will make things easier. 

**M: Yeah, that's definitely what we're trying to do. We're hoping to roll it out soon and we're going to start with this case that we talked about which is claims for increase to existing conditions. So, you know just thanks again I just really wanted to thank you for taking the time to share your thoughts with us. It's really helpful and valuable for us to do this for this site for veterans....**

**M: *Closing remarks***
