Background:
-sep in 2012 filed for leave in Feb 2016
-dad prompted him to file for disability (dad is retired E-9)
-he had a traumatic acoustic injury and was going to the audiologist multiple times a month trying to figure out what it was and was finally got diagnosed with tinnitus and hearing loss
* He spoke with his dad about how it was difficult for him to hear the professor college, his dad suggested for him to file for disability. He said "whatever" since he was in college and didn't care. 
* couple years later in 2016, dad brought it up again b/c he was working for a medical device co. and was having trouble hearing customers, so his dad said he should consider filing for that VA claim. it was his dad and his grandfather that prompted him to file a claim

*How did you find out about the process and what you needed to do to submit your claim?:* 
honestly I just went to VA website and hoped for the best 

*What did you look for?:*
at the time, he kinda gave me some guidance on what to do, I think it was go to eBen, register there and then start the claim, and just go through the laundry list and all the jargon and that I had no clue what it was, I ended up finding it through eBen. submitted a claim. I had an eye condition, the ringing….tinnitus and just submitted it that way and just waited, I believe its in eBen where I found it

*Is that (eBenefits) where you usually go for more info about your benefits?*

*   I assume so, thats where all the paperwork is filed or that I can access in eBen to my knowledge
  Chose to file online:
  I’m new school, so I don’t really like the  whole filling out paper,mail it in, its a lot faster, makes more sense, its secure, it won’t get lost in the mail, you don’t have to worry about identity theft, your security number is out there, it made to me more sense  to do it online
  How long it took prepare claim:
*   that particular on, well there are two that I filed the first time and in April I did another two or three but I think it took me about 20–30 min. But like i said the one with the eye condition I don’t think that was correct, I think I chose the wrong condition, I put bilateral eye condition, I was looking for astigmatism b/c I got diagnosed with that when I was in because I was staring at a screen a blue screen for 8 hours a day for 6 months, but I think it took about 20 min per claim maybe 30. That was about 2 years ago.
  -no help from anyone who filing for claim

Prototype:
Condition has become worse:
(was scrolling down the page reading about the process). "I think what I'd first look for..." "Apply for Disability Compensation..." "Obvioussly sign in, but then I would..." (scrolling down, reading more about the process) then click on "start the application"
What the options mean:
1st one tells if I have never filed for a rating. 2nd one tells if I have rating or disability claim and it's gotten worse
3rd one is the claim was denied, which is where I’m at. They denied it and I disagree with their decision and I want to rebut it

First tapped on "I have a new or worsening condition to add to my rated disability claims", then "One or more of my rated conditions has gotten worse"

*How long would you expect this application to take?*

If it was like back then I would expect to get a few txt box where I have to explain what is going on and how its gotten worse and pretty much defend the list of other options of how its gotten worse and on a scale from 1-10
Next, select continue, 
*Why he’s being asked to sign in:* 

*  b/c of the info that is within my account, to sign in securely into MHV, I’m guessing thats what it looks like...

*  Any concerns at this stage? 

  *  hoping I remember my password

*  Actually, I'm curious to know what id.me is, it caught my attention since its green and I don’t know what it is and since I've got time, I would investigate that to see if there’s a smoother away of going through it to where if it's got... since I have the new iPhone with facial recognition, thumb recognition (never heard of id.me before)

  *  *What would make you comfortable signing up with id.me:*
    *  first thing I would look for and this is just me being a tech guy, I would look at the top to see if https was there instead of the http

*  *If he didn’t have an account for any of these:*

  *  well I didn’t have and I knew I didn’t have an account I would sign on with MHV b/c I don’t have a cat card to do the DS login and idk what sign with id.me is so my initial reaction would be to go into sign in with my MHV  and just hope there's a sign up or some sort of prompt for me to create an account 

  Identifying Details: 
  Actually I really like that, it simple, its straight forward, I see that lock that tells me its secure. basically it's asking me to verify if my info is correct and allows me the freedom to go in and make changes. assuming it would be a simple fix, instead of having to go through all the crazy routes of guessing. Assuming everything is right, click Continue (called it "Next").

  Why the VA is asking this info:
  so looking at it now, I would guess the VA is becoming more conscious of the actual problems that a lot of Vets are having and in order to streamline the process and take out a lot of work if they are truly having mental health issues, homeless, suffering from financial hardship, blind or sight impaired, that tells me that the VA is putting more of an emphasis in identifying Veterans who are trying to access this system, seeking out that help and trying to streamline that process with them
  -If this applied: I would click it and click continue
  Ideally, you would receive a phone call from…and it depended on what my situation. As far as the suicide guide, I would expect a call from the suicide prevention  line or Veteran suicide prevention immediately and then the homeless in danger - I would expect the next page to be..uhhh I know the VA has certain department or certain areas within the hospitals  and the admin that help with that and that is their focus so I would expect to have the number or email of, preferably both, of the closest department that I could talk to in case I needed to get a way in or something or certain info
  -If none applied: 

*  I wouldn't check any of them and click continue 
  Whats going to happen next:
  honestly idk maybe another list of options
  or the second priority of emphasis that the VA has identified, clicks continue, 
  Next
  verifying mailing and contact info: 
  -What if you were moving soon? 

*  Depending on how far out, for instance in back June when I was at my old address, I would put my new mailing address on there (for the primary address) and contact whoever lives there to keep their eyes open for it and set it aside for me 

*  It would be great if, I’m assuming its a bunch of paperwork they are sending, if its something that needs to be mailed, it would be great if there was a green option of sending straight to email or go paperless, that would probably make everything go a heck of a lot faster too, in the interest of efficiency.

*   assume everything is right, I’d click next...
  verifying service history,  assuming thats correct
  Bank account:
  a lot bank accounts change, not happy with the bank you're at, verifying everything is still accurate
  What VA would do with this info:
  hopefully keep it safe, attach it to a file and whenever its time to do the monthly compensation access it, send it to accounts payable or whatever the department is they use for that, no problem saving info, seems secure 

Scenario 2 
Conditions worsened:
click both boxes >click next  'straightforward’
“Collecting evidence: umm so what i take its pretty straight forward if i've gone to a private practice doctor or sleep research center or something like that and get all those records and say my wife notices I have trouble going to sleep or something like that, I'd get my wife to write the buddy statement but would also get it notarized making it legal and adding gravity to it and upload all that in here.

Assuming I have all that collected, from now I’m expecting to click continue and it will ask me to upload all that into their system."

*If he had to step away midway through the application process*
Save and finish this application later, hopefully its not a process like it has been, say we click that and it just  bookmarks where we are, and next time when I come back instead of having to go through steps 1, 2 and 3 again, it will bring me right back to treatment records

-It would be great that save and finish this application later was its own button under back b/c people with big thumbs may accidentally hit back or continue buttons

Lets assume b/c the VA provides medical insurance for that specific one (PTSD) that everything was done at the VA and I also went to a sleep study at a private doctor. Would choose both "VA medical facility" and "My private doctor" and click continue .

It's straight simple, it tells when you last treatment was… if I moved, the first VA medical facility would be here and then I'd Add another VAMC beneath that. its pretty straightforward

*Feeling about the process so far*
I don't have to think too much, so that's nice. I feel like in the old way if I click something it would take me off that page and I'd have to start over.

*Do you have any worries about that here?*

Not yet.

Treated by a non VA doctor:
 -I would click "no, I will upload them" rather than authorizing the VA to retrieve my private medical records b/c, it takes them 4 months from when I first submit to schedule an appt, so God knows how long it will take them to ask somebody for something, so I would do the leg work myself and upload it but thats just me. I would absolutely not trust the VA to take care of that in a timely manner.

If my consent to access my records is limited, that limit is written here:

*  This line is confusing, I didn’t know what its asking. Until this ("only records related to intervertebral disc syndrome") popped in here (inside the field), I didn’t know what it meant. Rather my comprehension of it was off. 
*  everything else was pretty straightforward

What if you didn’t have all the info:
Call the clinic, assuming I got all the records myself, I'll go through them and see why I went there or call one of the nurses for my file
Other supporting docs:
-so referring back to the buddy statements and all that, what I'm assuming is this is asking for other supporting documents to help the VA in their judgment to extend the… just more supporting documents along with medical record to help concrete the case that the problem is getting worse

I would get my wife to do exactly what i said and write a note with as much deatail as she wanted, how often it happens, notarize that and take a picture of that with it shaded and upload it.

*What impact would those supporting documents have on your claim?*
To my knowledge it would further support but give a more solid foundation that the actual claim is getting worse and if they are looking at the doctors recommendation they are getting the baseline for when he got tested at the VA, the original disability, when he goes through private practice and they are saying now its gotten worse, freq of the sleep is less and the wife comes in and validates info. In my opinion its just giving more evidence to the claim, not to bog them down but to let them know this as legit as it can be and here’s how and why

Application review- lets say I clicked save and return to later, so I’m seeing options to check for accuracy.
Note section (about fraud being a federal offense) “thats always scary”

Thoughts on process:
That's a long time (we usually process claims within 95 days). That's crazy. I know that has nothing to do with this, but Its frustrating with the waiting period. currently I gotta wait 90 days just to get my medical records then I have to wait 90 to hear something back and then once its scheduled, however long that is, and once the appointment has been done, however long it takes for those results to come through, then the decision's made, and once the decision's made and reviewed, then that comes back. It's just another hurry up and wait period. 

Everything else looks pretty good, this is everything you expect to see for a confirmation 
What to do with this info:
* I'd print it out and put it in the envelope I have for everything else. this is when I submitted, b/c this is when everything has been approved they backdate it to the first submission date and since this is a getting worse case I don't know how the back dating goes. I would save the submission date so in they came back and they didn’t do a back date I could protest and say well I submitted here and here’s proof of my confirmation page. And I would keep everything they sent me after this whether it be email, snail mail, I would print all that out or save it to file it even if I had to fax something. I would save that page in a file that I could always refer back to just in case they say we  never received this, well heres the fax stating that it went through w/ your number on here blah blah blah…. it would be nice if you could upload file or a document here on your own, essentially having your own file for tracking everything. Like "add to file" or something or "archive"
  ​
  This application process vs expectations:
  This process was a lot more streamlined than what I remember. Going through the process the first time myself and now that I’m appealing that decision, I'm using the DAV to do that b/c they have more experience doing it and the language that is used is meant to be confusing, so letting them handle that. This (prototype) kind of gives it to me. It seems like it's helping to combat all the frustrations and having to overcome all that by making it simple clicks and pretty straightforward. Very self-explanatory, so it does ease the burden.
  ​
  Find out what happens after you apply:
  probably an infographic of the process maybe not exactly that but it would be great if it saying received it, reviewed, sent to local VA, whatever the process is, its broken down in a very simple straightforward way to complement the process.
  ​

  *when you've done applications like this in the past, do you prefer to do it all at once or save it and come back to it later?*
  Prefer to finish the application all at once, b/c lets just say that phone call we were talking about earlier, if I saved it, it would probably be a couple days or a week  before I remember to come back, but if its a phone call I didn’t need to take, I would prefer to fill it out all at once to just be done with it

*Other questions or comments?*
Using Domino's Pizza: when you order a pizza and put in that order, they send you a tracker, that shows what the process the pizza in, do y’all have something like that that sends out an email or a status bar of where it is? b/c what a lot of us are used to is doing what we are told and waiting until we are told to move. So I like to see where things are in the process. 

In the old version, there was a "gathering evidence". sort of "we’re working on it" status. Like if it's in whatever admin's queue list, it lets me know its in their queue, and it sends an email to let me know it's been elevated and approved to move to the next level and then doing that whole process so that you aren’t on your toes the entire time b/c I know that if you get the phone call to set up the appointment and you do not make that appointment, you’re just screwed. and so if they are reaching out to you to schedule that appointment and either your phone is out of service or battery is dead or you’re not getting the voicemail or the call, so instead of the single point of failure, it would be great to have another source for the notification stating we have been trying to reach out to you to schedule your appointment. Go to vets.gov to do so. 

It would be great to have something that (application process) for Veteran owned business too. I like that and method of input. I just check the boxes. It's very simple.
