platform/cms/authoring-experience/research/cms-personas-journeys/consent-form/README.md, before:

# VA Research Participation Consent 

#### Session Description
You are being asked to participate in a research session to share your experience using the CMS tool to manage, edit, or publish content on VA.gov. By participating in this research session, you will help the VA design a product better suited for the editorial workflow.

This research session will take about 1.5 hours. We'll ask you some questions related to your work and do a journey mapping activity. We'll also record your comments and actions using written notes, audio recording, and screen recording. If you don’t want us to record one of these things, you can say no. Regardless, we won't use your name when we're presenting the results of this feedback session.

You may quit the session at any time. If you need a break, just tell the moderator. If you have questions, go ahead and ask them whenever you like.

#### Consent
By initialing below and signing this form, I give my permission for the Department of Veterans Affairs to use:</br>
Written notes of verbal statements (initial here ______)</br> 
Recorded voice (initial here ______)</br>
Screen recording (initial here ______)

I understand that I may quit the session at any time. If I need a break at any time, I will tell the moderator. I agree to ask questions about the session if I don't understand something. If I have questions after the session is over, I can contact Jordana Mello at jordana.mello@agile6.com.

I expressly release the Department of Veterans Affairs from and against any and all claims, which I have or may have for invasion of privacy, defamation, or any other cause of action arising out of the production, distribution, display or publication of the results of the project, as the conditions described above are met.  

By signing below, I indicate agreement with these terms above.

Name (printed)	___________________________________</br>
Signature		___________________________________</br>
Date			___________________________________

Commit message:

Replaced my contact with Jeff Barnes' one
Lauren Alexanderson confirmed with CORs that we should use gov name Jeff Barnes (Jeffrey.barnes4@va.gov) for the consent forms, even tho he's out.

platform/cms/authoring-experience/research/cms-personas-journeys/consent-form/README.md, after:

# VA Research Participation Consent 

#### Session Description
You are being asked to participate in a research session to share your experience using the CMS tool to manage, edit, or publish content on VA.gov. By participating in this research session, you will help the VA design a product better suited for the editorial workflow.

This research session will take about 1.5 hours. We'll ask you some questions related to your work and do a journey mapping activity. We'll also record your comments and actions using written notes, audio recording, and screen recording. If you don’t want us to record one of these things, you can say no. Regardless, we won't use your name when we're presenting the results of this feedback session.

You may quit the session at any time. If you need a break, just tell the moderator. If you have questions, go ahead and ask them whenever you like.

#### Consent
By initialing below and signing this form, I give my permission for the Department of Veterans Affairs to use:</br>
Written notes of verbal statements (initial here ______)</br> 
Recorded voice (initial here ______)</br>
Screen recording (initial here ______)

I understand that I may quit the session at any time. If I need a break at any time, I will tell the moderator. I agree to ask questions about the session if I don't understand something. If I have questions after the session is over, I can contact Jeff Barnes at Jeffrey.barnes4@va.gov.

I expressly release the Department of Veterans Affairs from and against any and all claims, which I have or may have for invasion of privacy, defamation, or any other cause of action arising out of the production, distribution, display or publication of the results of the project, as the conditions described above are met.  

By signing below, I indicate agreement with these terms above.

Name (printed)	___________________________________</br>
Signature		___________________________________</br>
Date			___________________________________
