4/12/2021

**Profile:**

Female

White or Caucasian

25-34 yrs.

Master's degree

Veteran and Caregiver


**Warm-up Questions - 5 minutes**

**For Caregivers:**

* Tell me a bit about the relationship you have with the Veteran.

The Veteran is my husband. We have been married for 5 and a half years now - I became his caregiver while we were dating. He took a blast while serving and did not get his symptoms checked out until a few years after. When he later got checked out, he was diagnosed with a TBI. I am now responsible for refilling medications and making sure he goes to his appointments. I work remotely so that I can do all of the caregiver responsibilities full time. 

* Do you receive any benefits from the VA? -If yes, what sort of benefits? -Are you part of the Program of Comprehensive Assistance for Family Caregivers?

I do as a Veteran, but not as a caregiver. 

* Does the Veteran have more than one caregiver? -If yes, can you tell me a bit about that situation?

    * Are they a family member or friend?

    * Do they live with the Veteran?

No

**Applying for benefits task with first representative option - 15 minutes**

Now that I understand a little bit more about your background.

**For Caregivers:**

Let's say you heard about a way you could receive benefits from the VA, and that you could apply online at VA.gov. You have navigated to the screen we are looking at. Now let's imagine you've decided you'd like to apply for these benefits. Go ahead and show us what you would do to apply.

I’ve actually applied a few times already, but if I were new to the page then I would’ve read everything on the page. Since there is a "Start your application" button I’ll click that. I filed out something very similar to this back in January (we had to drive to the VA to fill out 10 minutes of information that the VA already has). Having this be a digital form makes a lot more sense. It is basic information that you should be ablet o fill out online. The release of information form is fine *a form to give the office permission to view medical records*, but it is for information that the VA already has. 

I was/am curious why we are asked where the Veteran receives medical treatment. The location or whether they receive care from the VA doesn’t affect what the caregiver is doing for the Veteran. It seems arbitrary to include. It does however make sense to ask which VA clinic the Veteran uses.

"Learn who qualifies as a Primary Family Caregiver" seems like a no-brainer. Why would anybody be applying for this who isn’t a caregiver. What’s the point of being called a caregiver in the VA system if I don’t get access to anything that they offer? Of course I am on this application for the benefits.

If the caregiver has a different address than the Veteran, then that could be something worth flagging or filtering out if the distance is great enough. For every 10 people who need help, there will be a person who is fraudulently applying as well. 

The questions for step 2 and 3 should have explanations for why they are being asked.

The primary vs secondary caregiver explanations and questions should be together and up front. It would be good to include examples of what a primary and secondary caregiver would look like. A table or chart would be good to explain the differences in terms of time needed from the caregiver and the corresponding benefits.

When I applied, I was not given the option to provide a copy of the "power of attorney" document. It could be helpful to make it clear that the Veteran needs more assistance than just a drive to their appointment or reordering medications. If people are taking time to make legal decisions and changes, then it provides more legitimacy to the application and proving that the Veteran needs a caregiver – and that the caregiver should be recognized as such to the VA. I could handle filling this out from my phone and I even have files saved as PDFs to upload from an online storage system. 

It seems a little silly to have the representative’s statement of truth box because any person can just type in a name. I would recommend getting rid of that because I am either just giving consent to myself or this implies that there could be some other 3rd party involved. The statement of truth for the caregivers has more information than necessary. The 4th block of text is too advanced to be understood by a novice. The privacy policy is also repetitive. 

Things to watch for:

In general, we want to sit back and watch them, but if they hesitate you can say "I noticed you hesitate here, what are you thinking?"

* Remind participants to think out loud.

* Any hiccups? Do they know all the information?

* Any fields trip them up?

* Anything particularly confusing for them?

* Pay close attention to the representative and document upload sections

    * What documents would you upload here?

*Power of attorney document*

    * Do the upload instructions make sense to you?

*no issues uploading*

    * Do you already have a digital copy of the documents? (explain what this means if necessary)

*Yes, in an online drive*

Under the "guidelines for uploading files", it could be helpful to include specific instructions for how to upload a file. Pictures would probably be most helpful. 

* Any confusion understanding primary and secondary caregivers?

**Post task questions - 10 minutes**

Wonderful! I have a few questions about what you just saw in the prototype.

**Overall

* What did you think of the overall experience in completing this form?

Generally pretty quick and painless, which it what it should be since it is just prescreening your application. 

* What was the hardest part of completing the form? Were there any areas you felt were unclear?

There wasn’t anything that was particularly challenging. Having to understand the right file type of size could be a challenge to some.

* What worked well?

Having the option to upload supporting documents. 

