**Warm-up Questions - 5 minutes**

**For Caregivers:**

* Tell me a bit about the relationship you have with the Veteran.

I am the caregiver for my husband. He has PTSD and TBI – so I spend time keeping peace. I remind him about appointments and help him with everyday tasks. He also has some mobility issues that I help with. I only work part-time, and it more for my own mental health. It gets me out of the house, and I can talk to other adults. 

* Do you receive any benefits from the VA? -If yes, what sort of benefits? -Are you part of the Program of Comprehensive Assistance for Family Caregivers?

I do, I get a stipend for being his caregiver. We are also eligible for CHAMPVA. What has been most helpful is the caregiver assistance program. It’s good to talk to others to realize that a lot of people are in similar situations – it helps to feel normal.

* Does the Veteran have more than one caregiver? -If yes, can you tell me a bit about that situation?

    * Are they a family member or friend?

    * Do they live with the Veteran?

No

**Applying for benefits task with first representative option - 15 minutes**

Now that I understand a little bit more about your background.

**For Caregivers:**

Let's say you heard about a way you could receive benefits from the VA, and that you could apply online at VA.gov. You have navigated to the screen we are looking at. Now let's imagine you've decided you'd like to apply for these benefits. Go ahead and show us what you would do to apply.

I would scroll down to see what else is on the page. Everything is grayed out so I would have to start the application. *clicked start application button*

*no issues on step 1*

The second page is pretty self-explanatory. I would enter my email address because I know my husband won’t respond to emails. Sometimes I’ll do the same with a phone number because often times he will not answer phone calls. *could not find the VA clinic that they regularly visit*   *no issues on step 2*

I’m not sure what is meant by secondary family caregiver. Would that be me, or is it referring to somebody else? *understood the difference after reading the "learn more" dropdown*

Typo in the second bullet of step 4, "you can you can"

Things to watch for:

In general, we want to sit back and watch them, but if they hesitate you can say "I noticed you hesitate here, what are you thinking?"

* Remind participants to think out loud.

* Any hiccups? Do they know all the information?

* Any fields trip them up?

* Anything particularly confusing for them?

**Post task questions - 10 minutes**

Wonderful! I have a few questions about what you just saw in the prototype.

**Overall

* What did you think of the overall experience in completing this form?

Besides getting thrown off by the secondary caregiver option, everything was self-explanatory and easy to use. Would the secondary caregiver need to fill out their own application? It should either be two separate applications, or it should be stated at the beginning that you can include a secondary caregiver on the same application. It doesn’t bring up secondary caregivers until halfway through. 

* What was the hardest part of completing the form? Were there any areas you felt were unclear?

*secondary caregiver option* 

* What worked well?

The greyed out and highlighted sections made it easy to understand what you need to do and what you’ve done – it made it smooth and easy.

**Representative

* I'm going to quickly show you my screen (moderator shares screen with "representative" question)

    * Can you tell me how you decided/knew that you were/weren’t a representative?

I assume this would be for power of attorney, which I don’t have. I would assume that it is something that can be uploaded now, but it doesn’t have to be. 

**Wrap-up questions - 5 minutes**

* Do you have any questions for me before we conclude?

I’ve been in this program since late 2016 - early 2017. I applied and got accepted the first time around and have since joined some groups to talk to other people in similar situations. 

*What are the selling points for those who may apply for this program?*

Information about the stipend. 

Support service information

