**Warm-up Questions - 5 minutes**

**For Caregivers:**

* Tell me a little bit about yourself?

I am a caregiver for a Veteran.

* Tell me a bit about the relationship you have with the Veteran.

We have been together for 17 years and married for 15 years – we have 5 kids together. The amount of care I give has increased over time, especially after a cancer diagnosis. I take care of his medications and appointments. 

* Do you receive any benefits from the VA? -If yes, what sort of benefits? -Are you part of the Program of Comprehensive Assistance for Family Caregivers?

No, I am in the process of applying. We are just waiting for the decision. I’m pretty sure everything was online for our application. 

* Does the Veteran have more than one caregiver? -If yes, can you tell me a bit about that situation?

    * Are they a family member or friend?

    * Do they live with the Veteran?

No

**Applying for benefits task with first representative option - 15 minutes**

Now that I understand a little bit more about your background.

**For Caregivers:**

Let's say you heard about a way you could receive benefits from the VA, and that you could apply online at VA.gov. You have navigated to the screen we are looking at. Now let's imagine you've decided you'd like to apply for these benefits. Go ahead and show us what you would do to apply.

*clicked the start application button*  *used the tab key to advance through the text boxes*  A lot of times I will end up using my own email address for these types of things because he does not check his email. 

*was unsure what to answer for the recent medical care facility and facility type due to both options being correct for their case*

If I am applying for this, then would I need to know more about who qualifies as a primary family caregiver? If I am applying then I should already know, and that is why I am applying. My curiosity would make me click, "yes." I would click “no” if I didn’t want to learn more about who qualifies as a caregiver. *thought she was being asked if she wanted to learn more, not if she wanted to apply - same issue for secondary caregiver* It does not make sense to me why it is making me add a secondary caregiver, so I’ll change the primary caregiver response to, “yes.” *figured out that they needed to click yes to apply* Since the “learn more…” is underlined and under the question, it draws my eyes, and I didn’t even notice the actual question.

*Noticed the typo on step 4, bullet 2 & one in the question below*

I find the review at the end of the application to be helpful.

I’ve actually done this before, and when I got to the statement of truth, I had to wait for him to be out of surgery before I could have him sign it.  

Things to watch for:

In general, we want to sit back and watch them, but if they hesitate you can say "I noticed you hesitate here, what are you thinking?"

* Remind participants to think out loud.

* Any hiccups? Do they know all the information?

* Any fields trip them up?

* Anything particularly confusing for them?

* Pay close attention to the representative and document upload sections

* Make sure to dig in when there's any hesitation into what they are thinking

* Any confusion understanding primary and secondary caregivers?

**Post task questions - 10 minutes**

Wonderful! I have a few questions about what you just saw in the prototype.

**Overall

* What did you think of the overall experience in completing this form?

It is pretty easy overall, there isn’t anything difficult – except for not noticing the question above the "learn more…" option.

* What was the hardest part of completing the form? Were there any areas you felt were unclear?

* question / "learn more…" *

* What worked well?

I liked the review with the dropdowns at the end.

**Representative

* I'm going to quickly show you my screen (moderator shares screen with "representative" question)

    * Can you tell me how you decided/knew that you were/weren’t a representative?

I thought about whether or not I am a legal representative for him. I don’t have any paperwork that says I can make legal decisions for him so I knew I didn’t have any documents that would apply here. It was straightforward.

    * *If they were confused when completing this section.* What could we do to improve the information around representatives?

*looked at the dropdown in the original section* This is definitely helpful, it’s what I was looking for.

**Wrap-up questions - 5 minutes**

* Any other thoughts about the form?

At the beginning it would be good to include an approximate amount of time that it will take to complete the form, and how long it will take to hear back. 

It could also be helpful to include links to resources for caregivers. 

