**Warm-up Questions - 5 minutes**

**For Caregivers:**

* Tell me a bit about the relationship you have with the Veteran.

I am the caregiver for my husband. I am his full-time caregiver, so I pretty much do everything. He has TBI, PTSD, and a spinal cord injury. 

* Do you receive any benefits from the VA? -If yes, what sort of benefits? -Are you part of the Program of Comprehensive Assistance for Family Caregivers?

I get the VA caregiver stipend. I am part of the comprehensive caregiver assistance program. We applied back in 2016 I believe. We did a few appointments at the LA VA and then we were given a status of "full time" within a month or so. We’ve been on it since then. 

* Does the Veteran have more than one caregiver? -If yes, can you tell me a bit about that situation?

    * Are they a family member or friend?

    * Do they live with the Veteran?

I am the only caregiver for my husband.

**Applying for benefits task with first representative option - 15 minutes**

Now that I understand a little bit more about your background.

**For Caregivers:**

Let's say you heard about a way you could receive benefits from the VA, and that you could apply online at VA.gov. You have navigated to the screen we are looking at. Now let's imagine you've decided you'd like to apply for these benefits. Go ahead and show us what you would do to apply.

When I applied it was all on paper. *scrolled to bottom then back up and clicked "start application"*

This seems pretty normal. To apply for pretty much anything you have to have this basic information – and everything with the VA is associated with your social security number. Typically I use his phone number when they ask for and then enter mine as a secondary number; but for the email address, I enter mine instead of his because I check it more frequently. 

I do a lot on my phone, so I would do this from here *USING PHONE* I have a lot of my information linked to my phone so that I can upload or access it. The number of pages wouldn’t usually get to be too many for me to do on my phone. Having the autofill feature is what makes my phone particularly useful. 

For the "Recent medical care" section, we go to multiple locations so which one would we put? It says the LAST medical treatment but we don’t receive the same types of treatments from the same locations so we would need to know what type of medical treatment this is referring to. *has multiple doctors and goes to multiple facilities for different types of treatment*

*step 2, confirming to apply* This question seems repetitive because you’ve already clicked the link to apply. 

If I enter the same email address for myself that I used for my husband, would it get flagged or tell me that I need a different address? 

Is the secondary caregiver mandatory? Or is it optional? Personally, my husband is very picky in his trust of other people. If this were mandatory, then that would be a problem. He would let his sister do some of the less personal things, but not everything. I would enter "No" to it asking if I want to add one and then see what happens.  

The "Review" is good. It has everything listed with the edit option right here instead of you having to go all the way back. That’s the better way to do it. 

I am not sure who the "surrogate" would be *statement of truth section*.

I would not be able to sign his name for this because I do not have the authority to do it with my power of attorney. IF I did, then I would sign my name in place of his and would show the power of attorney document.

Things to watch for:

In general, we want to sit back and watch them, but if they hesitate you can say "I noticed you hesitate here, what are you thinking?"

* Remind participants to think out loud.

* Any hiccups? Do they know all the information?

* Any fields trip them up?

* Anything particularly confusing for them?

* Pay close attention to the representative and document upload sections

Is this for if I had power of attorney? I would probably say "No" because I don’t know exactly what it is asking for. *clicked the dropdown* Would it have the be the VAs version of power of attorney or is it power of attorney for ALL things? I have medical power of attorney through the VA, but not anything more than in that case. I am not sure if this is asking for something like that or if it is power of attorney in the more broad way. After reading this I would still say “No” and then wait and see if they ask about it later. I would explain the situation if so. If they told me that I could upload the power of attorney that I have then I would. *unsure where to upload the document* I would probably go to the final screen to see if it would prompt me to. *found upload section afterwards* 

* Make sure to dig in when there's any hesitation into what they are thinking

* Any confusion understanding primary and secondary caregivers?

**Post task questions - 10 minutes**

Wonderful! I have a few questions about what you just saw in the prototype.

**Overall

* What did you think of the overall experience in completing this form?

It was fairly easy, other than the few questions I had. The process wasn’t labor intensive and didn’t need me to go reference other documents. 

* What was the hardest part of completing the form? Were there any areas you felt were unclear?

Not knowing which doctor to use and not understanding what type of power of attorney the form is looking for. It would be best if I could enter multiple responses for that to include the most recent visit for each doctor. For the power of attorney question, maybe the question should specify which types they consider or if any will work.

