**Warm-up Questions - 5 minutes**

**For Veterans:**

* Tell me a little about yourself?

I retired in 2008. At the time I was diagnosed with multiple sclerosis. The condition has progressed, and my mother is now my caregiver. She helps me with everything. She helps with medications, driving my around, cooking, cleaning, and mobility issues. 

* Do they live with you?

    * If no, how often do they come over to check in on you?

She lives with me.

* Does your caregiver receive any benefits from the VA? -If yes, what sort of benefits? -Are you/they part of the Program of Comprehensive Assistance for Family Caregivers? -Do you have more than one caregiver? -If yes, tell me a bit about that relationship? -Are they a family member or friend? -Do they live with you?

Yes. I think we applied online together.

**Applying for benefits task with first representative option - 15 minutes**

Now that I understand a little bit more about your background.

**For Veterans:**

Let's say you heard about a way you and your caregiver could receive benefits from the VA, and that you could apply online at VA.gov. You have navigated to the screen we are looking at. Now let's imagine you've decided you'd like to apply for these benefits. Go ahead and show us what you would do to apply.

*took them a moment to find the "start application" button.

I would use the autofill, my mom just showed me this the other day. Sometimes the VA websites won’t be set up to let you do that. Having the option makes it SO much easier.

I have been seen at multiple VAs so when it asked for the LAST medical treatment, I had to think for a moment to know which the last was. I also wonder if this question is asking where my last VA appointment was, or would they want other care if it was more recent. I am also confused after looking at the second question. It is asking specifically for the VA center, but the other doesn’t specify. 

*was about to click, "yes" when asked if they’d like to apply for primary caregiver benefits before using the information dropdown* I’m glad you all had the dropdown, it made answering the question easier. 

*continued to use autofill the entire time* Its good to have the autofill because I may not have remembered all of this information – we store mine and my mom’s information on here for autofill. 

*For the list of potential/examples of secondary caregivers* They should also include siblings. My sister should be updated as my secondary caregiver. I would select "No" because sibling isn’t listed. I now see “other relative” so I would choose “yes” but I wouldn’t be confident that she counts for this.

When it comes to military things, we *Veteran, sister, and mom* send everything to the same email address. 

*needed to use the dropdown for clarification on power of attorney* This clarifies it. I would wonder if this means that they are making decisions for me or if they can make decisions for me if incapacitated. I am confused by this because I don’t know if I apply. I have medical power of attorney, but I don’t know if that would fit here. I would just select "No." I decided to select “No” because it didn’t seem like my medical power of attorney should be included here. 

*On review* I don’t ever like it when my social security number is shown after I type it. I am a fan of the Xs or just the last 4 numbers. I would immediately close this review section and not look at everything else in it when I saw my entire SS#. With just one picture of this part of the review screen, somebody could steal my identity. I would even clear the cache and make sure I didn’t somehow leave a trace for somebody to get the information.

*understood the "statement of truth" section*

Things to watch for:

In general, we want to sit back and watch them, but if they hesitate you can say "I noticed you hesitate here, what are you thinking?"

* Remind participants to think out loud.

* Any hiccups? Do they know all the information?

* Any fields trip them up?

* Anything particularly confusing for them?

* Pay close attention to the representative and document upload sections

*chose "yes" to the above question to get to the upload page* If I got to this page on a public computer then I would stop the application right here. I wouldn’t want that type of legal document on a public computer. If I were on a private computer then I would get the form from a folder on my laptop and upload it. 

**Post task questions - 10 minutes**

Wonderful! I have a few questions about what you just saw in the prototype.

**Overall

* What did you think of the overall experience in completing this form?

It was pretty easy. 

* What was the hardest part of completing the form? Were there any areas you felt were unclear?

There were those two spots where the wording confused me but other than that I liked the autofill. My biggest concern is security issues if I am doing this on a public computer.

* What worked well?

I liked the autofill and I liked that there was always a dropdown for information. I’ve used these types of dropdowns before on other pages, so I was familiar with how to use them. 

**Wrap-up questions - 5 minutes**

* Any other thoughts about the form?

I like the form – I think it would’ve been easier than the way we did this. 

