products/facilities/vet-centers/initiatives/2024-vet-center-2.0/seconday-research-synthesis/Expand satellite locations.md, before:

# Expand satellite locations secondary research synthesis
From [Vet Center 2.0 Initiative ticket](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-cms/issues/17661): Satellite locations should include services and be discoverable.
- Some satellite locations are very similar in maturity to a full Vet Center and may have dedicated
staff, daily hours and a full suite of services.
- Link to Other Locations could be more prominent.

## Past research
- Veterans understand what satellite locations are but have assumptions about the type of care
available there.
     - Findings from [Vet Center detail page usability study (non-client)](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/blob/master/products/facilities/vet-centers/initiatives/2020-2021-modernization/discovery/veteran-usability-tests/research-findings.md), Jan 2021:
          - The hypothesis was that Veterans will understand that child locations may not
have the same services as a parent location. This was determined to be true.
          - “Participants understood “Satellite locations” as related to the main location
and that they are often smaller and with a reduced service offering than its
parent location.”
         - A satellite's location influences the type of care assumed to be available there.

## Knowledge gaps
- It’s unclear what the impact will be to IA when satellite locations pages are more prominent.
     - Questions:
          - Where do Veterans expect to find satellite locations on main Vet Center pages?
          - Do Veterans understand the structure of satellite location pages?
          - Do Veterans understand why some satellite locations have daily hours and a full
suite of services while others don’t?
     - Potential research:
          - Tree testing or card sorting

## Other takeaways to consider
- No past research, but no knowledge gaps preventing this:
     - Consider making the Other Location section more prominent.

Commit message:

Update Expand satellite locations.md

products/facilities/vet-centers/initiatives/2024-vet-center-2.0/seconday-research-synthesis/Expand satellite locations.md, after:

# Expand satellite locations secondary research synthesis
From [Vet Center 2.0 Initiative ticket](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-cms/issues/17661): Satellite locations should include services and be discoverable.
- Some satellite locations are very similar in maturity to a full Vet Center and may have dedicated
staff, daily hours and a full suite of services.
- Link to Other Locations could be more prominent.

From [Research discovery ticket](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-cms/issues/17667#issuecomment-2052410371):
- Vet Center editors do not have a way to indicate the services available or details about the ways the service is delivered, such as evidence based modalities or support groups for either of these types of locations. In some cases, this could prevent satellite locations from showing on Facility Locator search results. 

## Past research
- Veterans understand what satellite locations are but have assumptions about the type of care
available there.
     - Findings from [Vet Center detail page usability study (non-client)](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/blob/master/products/facilities/vet-centers/initiatives/2020-2021-modernization/discovery/veteran-usability-tests/research-findings.md), Jan 2021:
          - The hypothesis was that Veterans will understand that child locations may not
have the same services as a parent location. This was determined to be true.
          - “Participants understood “Satellite locations” as related to the main location
and that they are often smaller and with a reduced service offering than its
parent location.”
         - A satellite's location influences the type of care assumed to be available there.

## Knowledge gaps
- It’s unclear what the impact will be to IA when satellite locations pages are more prominent.
     - Questions:
          - Where do Veterans expect to find satellite locations on main Vet Center pages?
          - Do Veterans understand the structure of satellite location pages?
          - Do Veterans understand why some satellite locations have daily hours and a full
suite of services while others don’t?
     - Potential research:
          - Tree testing or card sorting

## Other takeaways to consider
- No past research, but no knowledge gaps preventing this:
     - Consider making the Other Location section more prominent.
