# Conversation Guide: Address validation: Participant 1

### [Prototype](https://vsateams.invisionapp.com/share/34UP5BMUAJF#/391945409_1-_Intro_Screen)

## Warm-up Questions (5 minutes)

1. **Before we start, can you tell me a little bit about yourself? (If stuck, prompt to ask about service experience, where they live, their work).**

- I’m retired Army. I have been retired since 1995, military intelligent. VA main insurance, I use myhealthevet and pretty good at their systems. 

*Share screen and start recording.*

**OK, now I am going to turn on the recording.**

2. **Do you receive benefits from the VA? May I ask which benefits?**

- Primary health care. I have used the home loan and, educational benefits, voc rehab. I do a lot. So, I am 100% service connected permanent and total and I am from New York state and get additional va benefits. 

3. **Since receiving benefits from the VA, have you ever had to update your mailing address with the VA? (If yes) Can you tell me about this experience?**

- Oh, sure I have been retired since 95 so I have moves 2 or 3 times. It was no problem, I think when I did it, it was done through mail. 

4. **Since receiving benefits from the VA, was there ever a time when you were not receiving mail you expected to receive from the VA? Did you ever find out why you weren't receiving this mail?**

- It seemed like there was a lag when I got a complete service connection, I was notified by phone but not by mail. 
- (*Was this because of issues with your mailing address?*) No, I think it was bureaucracy that it happened. 
- (Samara's note: it was because of bureacracy that it took a while for her to get her disability information, not because of issues with her mailing address). 

5. **Have you ever signed in to VA.gov before? (If yes) About how often do you use the website?**

- I didn’t until it was a requirement for the study, I didn’t know anything about it. 

## First Task: Address validation with override and suggestions (10 minutes)

**Alright, now I am going to share keyboard and mouse controls and we are going to walk through the prototype.**

**(*Intro screen*) First, I just want to reiterate that this is a prototype... OK, when you're ready, please click "Go to the Prototype."**

**We are starting from the VA.gov homepage.**

1. **What would you do if you needed to change the address the VA had on file for you?**

- (From homepage, clicks "Change your address" and goes to content page).
- (On content page — was scanning for info on whether to sign in or go straight to her profile. Samara explained the mock user was already signed in and so she found the link to go right to her profile). I am looking at how to change my address is I am looking to see if I need to sign in or go to my profile. I normally go to my profile. I would sign in first. I will follow the steps.  Now going to my profile. 
- (Clicks link to go to her profile)

2. **(*On Profile*) Now we are on the VA.gov profile. How would you change your mailing address?**

- Probably click on contact information. 
- (Tries to click Contact Information. Not linked in the prototype, so she scrolled to the section and clicked Edit next to Mailing Address).

3. **(*On the Edit form*) Since this is a prototype, we are going to simulate typing in a new address by having you click into any of the fields in this form. That will update the whole address. (*On the updated form*) OK, now you have entered a new address. How would you save it?**

- (Clicked Update)

**(*Address validation section*)**

1. **Now we are looking at a screen that says "Your address update isn't valid." What do you think this means?**

- Because it needs the NW I guess in DC and it is not a correct address. (Samara's note: she didn't quite understand that I was asking her generally what "invalid" meant and not that I was asking about this specific address).

2. **Why do you think you are being told your address isn't valid? Why do you think you are seeing this screen?**

- According to the post office they have a certain address assigned and DC is split into 4 sections. 
- (What does it mean to you that your address is invalid?) I have done it many times, the post office thinks its different and now wants a number because the system has changed. 
- (Why are you being told the address is invalid?) The government and the post office see me as a different address. 
- (Samara's note: She seemed to understand what was happening and had mentioned later in testing that she had seen flows like this before on other sites. However, she wasn't quite articulating the idea that this address is/might be undeliverable).

3. **What do you think will happen if you click Edit Address?**

- In this case it will give me different options, or I may be able to fix it because  of a typo on my part. Here it gave me suggestions. 
- (What do you think would happen if you click edit?) I would be able to edit the address physically. 

4. **What do you think "Suggested Addresses" are? Where did they come from?**

- Different options for the address that I typed in might be. 
- (Where did they come from?) They may come from google maps; I honestly don’t know. Maybe a census. 

5. **How would you select the address you want to move forward with? What if you wanted to select the original address you entered?**

- There are different zip codes, so I would go with NW 20571.
- (How/why?) Click on one or the other then click continue. 
- (Can you select the original address?) Well it won’t let me
- (Why?) If I click on edit address it may not let me because it is in DC and there are different ones in DC ("ones" = quadrants). 
- (What makes you think that you can't select the original address?) It's not an option so it wouldn’t be available.
- (Why?) It goes back to the master list.
- (Did you notice the circle next to what you entered?) Yeah there is and no I didn’t. If I go to edit it may let me keep it. 
- (Samara's notes: The participant did not understand she could select the original address despite the open radio button next to it. Later in testing it came up that it was unclear to her why she could select the original address if it was found to be invalid. She didn't otherwise have an issue with the radio buttons in the Suggested Address section).

6. **Now that you have selected your address, please show me how you would save it.**

- (Clicks Update)

**(*On Confirm screen*)**

1. **Why do you think you are being shown this screen?**

- (Clicked past confirm screen and we had to go back to it). I clicked "Update" because it is true that I wanted to updated. Sometimes, I do this all the time I accidently put something wrong in and they are ensuring it is what you want. I did it so fast I probably need to slow down. It happens to me all the time. 
- (Samara's note: She understood the purpose of the confirm screen)

2. **What do you think will happen if you click "View Suggested Addresses?" Why do you think we give you the option to view suggested addresses?**

- It may provide other options like East or West or even another city.  In case is it not the address you want to do. 
- (Samara's note: Understood View Suggested Addresses would let her see the suggested addresses again).

**OK, please save your new address.**

**Alright, I have a few follow-up questions for you:**

1. **What could be improved about the process we just looked at?**
- **Do you have any questions about the process we just looked at?**
2. **What did you find to be clear and easy to understand?**

## Second Task: Address validation with override but without suggestions (5 minutes)

**Alright, now we are going to go through a similar process like we just went through, but it will be a little bit different this time.**

**First, please go to update your mailing address again. (*In modal after they click Edit*) Like before, please click into any field to update your address, and then save it.**

**(*On confirm screen*)**

1. **It looks like this address came up as invalid again, but this screen looks a little different than the last one. Can you tell me more about what you see and what's different than last time?**
2. **Why do you think there are no suggested addresses?**
3. **Tell me what you think your options are at this point.**
4. **What would you do next?**

**OK, please save your address. (*On confirm screen*) OK, please confirm and save.**

## Third Task: Address validation without override but with suggestions (5 minutes)

**Again, now we are going to go through a similar process like we just went through. We've got two more scenarios we are going to look at.**

**Like before, please go to update your mailing address again. (*In modal after they click Edit*) and click into any field to update your address, and then save it.**

**(*On confirm screen*)**

1. **Like before, the address you entered has came up as invalid, but this screen looks a little different than the last two we looked at. Can you tell me more about what you see and what's different than last time?**
2. **Why do you think you can't choose the address you originally entered?**
3. **What would you do if the address you entered was indeed correct but you were not able to save it?**
4. **Tell me what you think your options are at this point.**
5. **What would you do next?**

**OK, please save your address. (*On confirm screen*) OK, please confirm and save.**

## Fourth Task: Address validation without override but with NO suggestions (5 minutes)

**We are going to go through one more scenario. Like before, please go to update your mailing address again. (*In modal after they click Edit*) and click into any field to update your address, and then save it.**

**(*On confirm screen*)**

1. **Like before, the address you entered has came up as invalid, but this screen looks a little different than the rest. Can you tell me more about what you see and what's different than last time?**
2. **Tell me what you think your options are at this point.**
3. **What would you do next?**

**OK, please go to edit your address. (on Edit form) Click into any field to update the address, and show me how you would save it.**

## Post-testing questions (2 minutes)

**OK, those are all the screens we are going to look at today.**

1. **Overall, how could we improve the different scenarios we looked at today?**
- **(If they need clarification — "the process of telling people their addresses aren't valid and the process of suggesting alternatives")**
2. **What did you think was clear/what worked well?**
3. **What questions do you have for me?**
