# Conversation Guide: Address validation: Participant 2

## Warm-up Questions (5 minutes)

1. **Before we start, can you tell me a little bit about yourself? (If stuck, prompt to ask about service experience, where they live, their work).**

- My name is [REDACTED], 71 years old. I am a cancer patient. I live right next to the VA hospital. I work part time as an admin assistant, I can only work part time due to my condition but at least I have a job. 

*Share screen and start recording.*

**OK, now I am going to turn on the recording.**

2. **Do you receive benefits from the VA? May I ask which benefits?**

- Yes I do. I get 10 percent disability.

3. **Since receiving benefits from the VA, have you ever had to update your mailing address with the VA? (If yes) Can you tell me about this experience?**

- Let me see, ten years ago it was the beginning of the online to the VA. Where I was able to add my account online, we had a lot of trouble because the website did not keep our information or our username/password. It was really hard during that time. 
- (*How did you do it?*) I went online and did it. I was urged to do it and I found out that I didn’t have all information that I needed, and it was good I updated it. Now I update very little. One time I had to change banking numbers for my disability, and I was able to go on to a va website to change that. 

4. **Since receiving benefits from the VA, was there ever a time when you were not receiving mail you expected to receive from the VA? Did you ever find out why you weren't receiving this mail?**

- Regarding my benefits. No. I had to go in and correct my direct deposit but never really remember getting anything to update me the information. I never got the information I just happen to see on va health how to update the information and I was able to do it myself without any help. 

5. **Have you ever signed in to VA.gov before? (If yes) About how often do you use the website?**

- Yes, I have.
- (*How often?*) That website takes me to myhealthevet. I go to them then myhealthevet then it sends me to the records department. The va I deal with them to update my pensions and things of that nature. A copy of my dd-214. 

## First Task: Address validation with override and suggestions (10 minutes)

**Alright, now I am going to share keyboard and mouse controls and we are going to walk through the prototype.**

**(*Intro screen*) First, I just want to reiterate that this is a prototype... OK, when you're ready, please click "Go to the Prototype."**

**We are starting from the VA.gov homepage.**

1. **What would you do if you needed to change the address the VA had on file for you?**

- (On homepage) Well let see. I think it is on the records part. Its staring me in the face, change my address. 
- (Content page). Then it says go to va.gov profile and click edit. (reading page).
- (*What would you do next?*) VA.gov profile.
- (Samara's note: We should replace the subway map directs on this page with a dynamic widget)

2. **(*On Profile*) Now we are on the VA.gov profile. How would you change your mailing address?**

- Contact information. There we go. 

3. **(*On the Edit form*) Since this is a prototype, we are going to simulate typing in a new address by having you click into any of the fields in this form. That will update the whole address. (*On the updated form*) OK, now you have entered a new address. How would you save it?**

- By clicking on the update button. (Clicks update button)

**(*Address validation section*)**

1. **Now we are looking at a screen that says "Your address update isn't valid." What do you think this means?**

- It means the computer and information I sent doesn’t click but provides other address that will help me. They want to know if it is NW or NE. They provide suggestions, that is a lot easier for me to just click then click change. 
- (*You said something when I asked what it means it is invalid, what do you mean you what you entered didn’t click*) It means I entered the correct address except there is a NW or a NE and I failed to put that in.
- (*You are saying you made a mistake and that’s why it says its invalid*) That’s correct. 


2. **Why do you think you are being told your address isn't valid? Why do you think you are seeing this screen?**

- Well because Vermont Ave has a NW and a NE and it is needed to correct the address. 
- (Samara's note: It was not clear to me whether this person understood it was because the address they entered might not be deliverable. He was very hung up on the issue with NW or NE and could not separate himself from the details to give insight into whether he understood the bigger picture.)

3. **What do you think will happen if you click Edit Address?**

- I would be able to add NW or NE. On the address that I entered you’d click on and you can edit it. It shows the street address and I should be able to click into this. 

4. **What do you think "Suggested Addresses" are? Where did they come from?**

- They come from google maps or something that is associated with it and it tells the computer that there is the NE and NW. We have many streets going North or south and this is one of those streets.

5. **How would you select the address you want to move forward with? What if you wanted to select the original address you entered?**

- It would take us make (Samara's note: not sure what he was trying to say). Well as a matter of fact, I can click it and it would be my address. I think that would be incorrect though.
- (*Why would it be incorrect?*) There’s a reason they are providing suggestions, even though the zip codes are different. It looks like NW is the one with the same zip code so it helps me make the decision. 
- (*Say you entered your home address, you know it is correct but still saw this screen with suggested address, could you or couldn’t you be able to select your original address, what would you do*?) Well it suggests NW and NE, however if I never used them before then I would have to click into the address I entered. I don’t want to be wrong so again if I never used it before then there is no reason for me to use it right now. 
- (*I hear you saying you can click the original address if you wanted to, is that correct?*) Correct. 

6. **Now that you have selected your address, please show me how you would save it.**

- I would click at 811 Vermont then click continue. 

**(*On Confirm screen*)**

1. **Why do you think you are being shown this screen?**

- They are giving me a last chance to confirm it is correct.

2. **What do you think will happen if you click "View Suggested Addresses?" Why do you think we give you the option to view suggested addresses?**

- It is giving me another chance for NW or NE if I wanted to use it. But I decided to use NW. Unless I think I heard NE before or something of that matter. I checked on that suggested address. 

**OK, please save your new address.**

**Alright, I have a few follow-up questions for you:**

1. **What could be improved about the process we just looked at? Do you have any questions about the process we just looked at?**

- Well, it wasn’t that confusing to me. I came up with options of why they showed it to me. This is something I have ran into before, my address has come up like that before. It is [REDACTED] but is asked if I am sure if its not street. If I look at the street sign it does say street. But I have to pick the one I am used to getting and using because I think that is my legal address. I wouldn’t have much trouble understanding because I know where I have been getting my mail and whether if I have been using NE or NW but didn’t want to be wrong so they suggested NW and when we think about it... They wouldn’t have suggested it if it wasn’t correct. 
- (*So, Given the personal experience with your home address let’s not get lost with addresses in the prototype. Let’s imagine the address in the prototype, think of it in the experience you have had. How could we make this better?*)  I assume those two came up because you are trying to help me pick the correct address and they think something is missing so I would use the one that they suggested because the app services go by the zip code to help you for better suggestions. It is simply help, I would take suggestions and they provide them. 

2. **What did you find to be clear and easy to understand?**

- No not really. I just had to make a choice. I think veterans that go online to change their address will run into that. 
- What we just went through I added the address without NW or NE which is what most veterans will do when hanging their address. There is nothing confusing and it is the fact what do you normally use when you get mail and it is helping to make a selection. Nothing confusing. 

## Second Task: Address validation with override but without suggestions (5 minutes)

**Alright, now we are going to go through a similar process like we just went through, but it will be a little bit different this time.**

**First, please go to update your mailing address again. (*In modal after they click Edit*) Like before, please click into any field to update your address, and then save it.**

**(*On confirm screen*)**

1. **It looks like this address came up as invalid again, but this screen looks a little different than the last one. Can you tell me more about what you see and what's different than last time?**

- It doesn’t make any suggestions. 

2. **Why do you think there are no suggested addresses?**

- There is no help that they can provide and the mailing address is not enough. It is missing something , maybe NW or NE. There are a lot of streets broken that way in DC. 

3. **Tell me what you think your options are at this point.**

- To edit that address, I don’t know what editing I can do because they are not suggesting. I would have to use this address. I live at 1400 park street and there isn’t a NW or NE on that one. 
- (*Are you saying that’s where you live so that’s why you’d use that address?*) Correct. Plus it’s not giving suggestions so you know that’s my answer and they would have to accept it. 
- (*Could you edit if you want to?*) I could but I don’t know how I would edit it. 
- (*What do you mean you don’t know how you would edit or what you would change about the address?*) Correct. Again because they are not sending suggestions so see where I made the mistake and that’s my actual address. Unless I can go back and do it all over again but then again that all I did. The things we clicked in for this process that’s it and there’s no suggestions. 
- (*So you are saying that the only way to edit would be if there were suggestions?*) Correct, and here they say my address update is invalid but I would still continue to see farther options. If I click continue they would have to accept it. 

4. **What would you do next?**

- Click continue. 
- (*Why is it saying this is invalid but you can pick it?*) The website is in conflict with my address. Because I don’t know the other address to use. 
- (Samara's note: It is unclear if he understood why we were telling him the address was invalid but we were still letting him choose it.)

**OK, please save your address. (*On confirm screen*) OK, please confirm and save.**

## Third Task: Address validation without override but with suggestions (5 minutes)

**Again, now we are going to go through a similar process like we just went through. We've got two more scenarios we are going to look at.**

**Like before, please go to update your mailing address again. (*In modal after they click Edit*) and click into any field to update your address, and then save it.**

**(*On confirm screen*)**

1. **Like before, the address you entered has came up as invalid, but this screen looks a little different than the last two we looked at. Can you tell me more about what you see and what's different than last time?**

- It telling me that the address 1510 with zip code of 20010 is NW and since that is my zip code and they suggest NW I would have to click on that because the difference is that t is the same zip code. 
- (*I am not asking about the addresses themselves, but what was different about the forms. How is this form different then the last two forms?*) It says address isn’t valid, enter address or pick suggested address and provides instructions to do as I could before.
- (*Did you notice it doesn’t allow you to select address you entered?*) That is correct. 
- (*Did you notice you weren’t able to select it or didn’t you notice?*) Well the information I entered I wasn’t able to select because it provided NW or NE but the zip code tells me the best suggestion is the first on under suggested addressed.


2. **Why do you think you can't choose the address you originally entered?**

- Well because they are telling me that it is not correct. Because it is not correct. I think it is thinking with the zip code. Well I am not sure; it did let me edit it though. If I were to edit it then everything would change but it wouldn’t allow me to accept that address.
- (*You weren’t sure why it let you select it during the first time but not allowing you to do it now. Is that accurate?*) Correct

3. **What would you do if the address you entered was indeed correct but you were not able to save it?**

- I don’t know what I would do, maybe go back to edit the address. That’s the only thing I could possible do is edit the address. I don’t know what I would do. I would have to accept one of the suggestions to get through this website. 

4. **Tell me what you think your options are at this point.**

- Selecting a suggested address or edit the address. 

5. **What would you do next?**

- What I am looking at I would accept the first suggested address because it has the correct zip code and the other does not. 

**OK, please save your address. (*On confirm screen*) OK, please confirm and save.**

## Fourth Task: Address validation without override but with NO suggestions (5 minutes)

**We are going to go through one more scenario. Like before, please go to update your mailing address again. (*In modal after they click Edit*) and click into any field to update your address, and then save it.**

**(*On confirm screen*)**

1. **Like before, the address you entered has came up as invalid, but this screen looks a little different than the rest. Can you tell me more about what you see and what's different than last time?**

- It seems to me the difference is that the address update was invalid. Tells me to edit the address but doesn’t provide suggestions. I think if I am correct id have to call this 1800 number.

2. **Tell me what you think your options are at this point.**

- Edit it to something. 

3. **What would you do next?**

- I would click edit the address.
- (*If you know it is correct what would you do?*) I would call the 1800 number for additional assistance. 

**OK, please go to edit your address. (on Edit form) Click into any field to update the address, and show me how you would save it.**

## Post-testing questions (2 minutes)

**OK, those are all the screens we are going to look at today.**

1. **Overall, how could we improve the different scenarios we looked at today?**

- I think it is a help to clarify the address. I think many times people will leave things off of their address but if you write in your address and it is the address you get your mail at and it is that then the program will not help. You would need to call in for help. This is to correct on the VA side or your side to correct your address. If I call the va and tell them this is my address I don’t know what they would do, either find the correct or accept the address. I don’t think it is a hassle I think it is a help
- (*Why?*) Some people make mistakes or leave things off. Like we have E street here but there you have E or W and if you don’t add it you’re in trouble. Some people just don’t understand or know it is missing so I don’t think that is a problem. You just have to go through the process using maps and zip codes to help the veterans come up with a complete address so their letters are not lost. 

2. **What did you think was clear/what worked well?**

- It provided me with additional information for me to use. They have enough information within the boxes to find the correct address. I don’t think anything needs to be improved. 
- Well  thought that the website was very helpful and I didn’t see a problem in it. We went through 3 different screens on how to correct it online and if you can’t then call the 1800 number. Sometimes we need a voice to correct things. 

3. **What questions do you have for me?**

- This is the only thing we talked about on the website and I understand what they were doing on the website so for me I learned something going through all three of that pages. 
