# Conversation Guide: Direct Deposit Updates

## Warm-up Questions (2 minutes)

**1. First, can you tell me a little bit about yourself? (If stuck, prompt to ask about service experience, where they live, their work).**

- So, I am a navy veteran how also works at the VA. Public contact team so if veterans have questions about claims or benefits and we help find the answer. I have been at the VA for 9 year. 

OK, now I am going to turn on the recording.

*Start recording.*

2. **Do you have a VA.gov account? If so, about how often do you use the website?**

- I sure do, I don’t use it very often, maybe a few times a year.

3. **Do you use the My VA personalized dashboard on VA.gov? If so, how often?**

- I have tried. So, with the myID, it’s been serval months, when va.gov first came out as the consolidation of myHealtheVet and ebenefits I tried to get in but had difficulty . I think I was successful but have not had time to test it. I think it is called ID.me, that’s what I meant. 

4. **What benefits do you currently receive from the VA?**

- Healthcare and disability compensation. 

5. **Do you use VA.gov to manage this/these benefit(s)?**

- I don’t typically. I have my benefits claim was decided years ago and my health care I do all on the phone. I have tried and you now here and there but again the login process has been difficult so its easier to call. I have used myHealtheVet in the past for secure messages between the provider and prescription.

6. **(If more than one benefit) Which benefit do you find yourself most often managing online/on VA.gov?**
- I would love to get a certificate of eligibility for loan guarantee and I have tried multiple times but haven’t been successful. 
- I would like to book an appointment instead of messaging for an appointment. 
- My desire for ebenefits not as my part as a veteran but as a va employee for veterans that are frustrated with the completion dates of claims. It is wrong and frustrating. A veteran can go into an appeal and it will give them an estimated date then go in another day and it will be completely different, and it would be better since we cannot determine when it will be done not to give an estimated date. We are over promising and under delivering. It makes them frustrated. Not particularly. I have tried but its frustrating. 
- Experience- they have been fine. I have attempted to get a certification of eligibility for a va home loan and have made serval attempts but never received one. I wish I had more access to documents within my VMS folder, like if I need a copy of my DD-214, I could do that instead of making someone else. Last time I was on I could not do that, but it would be nice to be able to do that. 


## Managing benefits (10 – 15 minutes)

### How would you get info on disability/how to file a disability claim?

- I would go to va.gov, it’s also how I would advise a veteran curious about benefits. It depends if I knew what I was looking for. If I wanted information about health care the healthcare links are helpful, apply now, or file a claim under disability. Files file for Disability.
- (*goes to how to file page*) this information is really good, and this information is what I was talking about, ebenefits gives estimated date of competition when it should stay with the average number of days. This is where I would do that, and it has me sign in before I do that. 
- (*Goes to file for disability page then sign in page*) This is frustrating, seems like when everything goes to VA.gov there should only be one thing to login, you still have to login to each separate thing [Samara's notes: she wants one credential for VA.gov and she wants to be signed in still when she goes to MHV/eBenefits]. (*Returns to File for disability*) it always sends a text verification. 
 - How she found claim status info: Homepage — Clicks Check claim and appeal status link.

### How would you find out more about getting a CoE for a home loan?

- (*From homepage*) I click here, appeals, claims page can assist with getting a certification of eligibility. So, I attempted at doing that but have never received one.That was where I found out I could do it, under disability check claim/disability. Seemed like a weird place for a COE, its not very obvious. 
- (*VA letters page*) On the left-hand side of the preview screen I saw it, clicks on learn how to apply for home loan COE (*goes to Home loan COE page*).
- Expecting link: I mean yea, I would’ve thought maybe there would be something for a home loan within the four windows (Samara's note: she is talking about the four boxes w/ the top 20 tasks on the homepage), there’s healthcare, disability, records. I don’t know that an individual that doesn’t work at the VA would know that, you don’t have to be disabled to apply for the home loan.
- Home loan process- (*Goes to VA benefit letter- how to apply for COE*) Clicks ebenefits to apply (*Goes to ebenefits*) Then this is frustrating because I have to login again.
- I would think with ID.me, I am already logged in. I can’t even access the screen. I don’t remember any of my DS login. I have a CAC, but I don’t think I can use it here. 

## The dashboard (10 – 15 minutes)

**Alright, let's take a look at your My VA personalized dashboard.**

### Find VA Benefits

- (*Thoughts on Find VA Benefits announcement modal*) - I think this is great depending on what it shows and the accuracy. I like this a lot for people in the system it could be really good.  I would click on find VA benefits. 
- (*Find benefits selection page*) Looking at- You know going on the COE, I would look at the housing assistance. I like how it is organized, it separates the claims and appeals because appeals are an entity of them self. Looks easy and intuitive to go. I am doing preplanning because I am hitting middle age, (*selects burial benefits*)
- (*Saves and goes back to My VA*) Looking at- this is the screen, once I saved my preferences on myvahomepage it has brought me here. Give general information for burial benefits. Then it gives me track claim information (Samara's note: She got confused seeing the Track Claims section below Find VA Benefits), I am not sure why that’s there. It doesn’t really say if I am eligible. When that splash came up for eleiable benefits, I think it would be helpful to tell you what you need to have to be eligible or what makes you ineligible. 
- (How would you find more information about these benefits?)- I would probably google, so there was a down arrow here to expand (Samara's note: She is referencing the expandable section of the Find VA Benefits content). I think people shouldn’t have to work that hard, for an older person they may not know that indicates a drop-down menu. Pixels are free so why not show people this stuff without having them hunt for it. 
- (*Clicks into eligibility content for burial benefits*) Now I can see what would be helpful is the general eligible criteria. I do think it should be on that page, this should be included in the initial page, kind of for me lead me to believe that was what the tool was going to show me. One problem with va is that there isn’t an easy a to z route you have to go to many routes to get there.
- (How could we better guide you to the FVB content?)- So when you had me go to myVA and the splash screen came up, I think it would be helpful for all instead of having to click on my va. It is good general information, if someone have never filed a claim I’m not sure how helpful myva would be. I receive benefits so I already have a record established. I think when you go to the homepage it would be helpful to have the splash screen. 

### What do you think is the overall purpose of the My VA page?

Overall purpose- So it seems that there are a couple of goals, provide general information then to help people start the application process. That’s my understanding.  Right and there are other, it is interesting, since I asked about burial benefits, and I gain a lot of good information about my disability. 

### Your Applications
Scroll to your application- I have no idea actually. I don’t know that I every applied for healthcare specifically. I don’t know maybe it is for applications that are pending that have not been finalized yet. 

### Track Claims
Track claims- this is just to give you a trail of records/claims that have been filed and statues
Helpful- It is kind of. Yea, it is interesting , for most of the claims they are closed, and they have sent the decision letter where it looks I can see it whereas the appeals it does not show anything was sent. I am not sure why it looks like that for all. 
Clarification- Compensation claim shows closed, and decision letter sent whereas the appeals was closed but doesn’t discuss the letters were sent. They were seven years ago so I don’t remember if I got the notification. 

### Manage your VA health care

(Samara asks her to scroll down to manage your va healthcare)

- that is how I go about ordering refills for prescription and checking messages or requesting an appointment
- **Is this helpful?** this is really helpful. 
- **What could you improve?** - Right, I think it’s okay. It is really basic. I’m not sure there’s a way, maybe if there are outstanding orders such as blood work. That would be nice information to have or any requests such as an MRI. To be able to see that order it would be helpful but I’m not sure how it would look like. Like a section for outstanding orders. 

### Overall questions

1. **What are your overall impressions of the dashboard?**

- I really like it, it provides information like a one stop show regarding the benefits. Its generally intuitive and easy to use besides a few things. 
- I like that the font is large, that is very helpful to those who are middle age. I actually like the font choice, that’s the kind of stuff that bothers me about most websites. I like how this looks, loads and yeas I think its overall really really good over previous products. 
- (Why don’t you use it) It is kind of a combination where I don’t have much to do on my va, my claims are how I want them, my healthcare is how I want it. I would only need it to refill prescriptions once every 90 days. So, my needs will always be low. I may do more with it with ebenefits, ebenefits is a whole train wreck and it continues to cause issues, because ebenefits doesn’t work my thought is that this wont work in a reliable way. 

2. **Do you find it easy or hard to use? Why?**
3. **What information is not on here that would help your to more easily manage your benefits and your experience at the VA? How would that information help you?**

- Without really diving in and checking it out, I don’t know the quality. At first glance it looks accurate, I can’t think of any to be honest besides the outstanding orders.


4. **Is there anything that you would remove or take away from the dashboard as it is now?**

- I wouldn’t say that necessarily. I might put view your profile or manage your account on the top
- (Why?) because it is unrelated to the other stuff, administrative functions are a little bit different. A lot of other web-based applications it tends to be separate. Like amazon it would be somewhere different then ordering down here. 

5. **In addition to anything we may have already discussed, what would you change about the dashboard to make it something that would help you more easily manage your benefits and your experience at the VA?**

- I really don’t know. 

6. **How do you feel about how the dashboard is organized (i.e.. Find VA benefits, Your Apps, etc.)? Would you change it, or keep it the same?**

- So, I kind of in theory I like the idea of having disability in one place and healthcare in a different. I guess it doesn’t really track for me why it is in this order and I don’t really have a complaint. Just more of an appearance type thing instead of a function. 
- Clarification- Right, yeah. So, like on the va.gov homepage how they are organized in the boxes with different links. On the my.va page by now how those boxes like my VOC Rehab benefits or GI Bill benefits. 

7. **Anything else that could be improved?**

- No.

## The dashboard and homepage (5 minutes)

Now let's talk about the VA.gov homepage.

1. **When you are logged in, do you use the VA.gov homepage? If so, how?**

-  When logged in how do you use va homepage- I don’t think I do. 

2. **Which would you say you use more *when you are logged in* — the My VA dashboard or the homepage?**

- (Samara's note — she doesn't really use either)

3. **If the My VA page either replaced or merged with the existing VA.gov homepage only when you are logged in, how, if at all, do you feel this would change your experience of using VA.gov?**

- If my va page replaced homepage only when logged in- I would appreciate that very much, I like the ease of use. I like things that anticipate what I am coming for. If my account login then I won’t have to use this anymore because I can go to the screen whereas it is personalized for me.
- If its not joined- I would say name it differently, I didn’t know what myva was until this call. Make the Va.gov general and them myva specific. 

## Post-Task Interview (2 minutes)

1. **Overall, how did you feel about all of the screens we looked at today?**

- Pretty good, I liked the evolution of the va pages, before it seems to be longer texts. Now they’re becoming more intuitive, easier to look at and navigate.

2. **In addition to anything you have already mentioned, how could this overall experience be improved?** 

- Once I login to my account I would like to be logged in to all of my accounts, it made me relogging for ebenefits. It would be very helpful. It is attempting to make my benefits information more secure then my healthcare. Or we make it seem that this logging isn’t enough. Either its secure or it isn’t. 
