# Conversation Guide: Direct Deposit Updates

**Note: This ended up being a partial call because the participant couldn't log into VA.gov**

## Warm-up Questions (2 minutes)

1. **First, can you tell me a little bit about yourself? (If stuck, prompt to ask about service experience, where they live, their work).**

- Well, I am 74 years old. I went to college law school graduate. In the marine corps from March 68 to September 69 Vietnam veterans, went back to law school. Married to my lovely wife 51 years in a week, 5 children. Practice law and now currently doing residential law. 

2. **Do you have a VA.gov account? If so, about how often do you use the website?**

- I do. Well, not very often but over the last 3 months I use it once a week. Sometimes to look for places to look for treatment or to visit I normally use the VA downtown [redacted]. I haven’t had types of problems to go to [redacted VAMC] for and recently looked into refinancing va home loan. I use it to look for medical information and benefit information. I don’t use many benefits, but I want to know about them. 

3. **Do you use the My VA personalized dashboard on VA.gov? If so, how often?**

- You know I don’t recall that; seems to me I took some sort of voluntary survey to see how fast I can find varies topics. I think my answer is I don’t use it usually. 

4. **What benefits do you currently receive from the VA?**

- Well, what I use the VA for mainly are for updated flu shots and that type of stuff. Mainly VA out clinic. 
- (Clarifies: What benefits do you currently receive?) Healthcare. No thank goodness I have no disability rating and I don’t think there are any other benefits beside healthcare.

5. **Do you use VA.gov to manage this/these benefit(s)?

- That’s a good question usually I show up at the facility and make an appointment. I don’t use the websites or usually.

6. **(If more than one benefit) Which benefit do you find yourself most often managing online/on VA.gov?**

- I do with private we have Medicare and blue shield. Mainly to date my use has been occupations and general health issues at Brown. I do manage Blue Cross Blue Shield online. I have visited it but not as of yet, I am planning to use audiology because of being a helicopter pilot and have hearing loss. 
- They are great, I can usually find everything on my own and if I can there is a messaging system I can ask. I have been gathering information to transfer it to myhealthevet. 

## Managing benefits (10 – 15 minutes)

(Samara's note: Since this participant didn't seem to manage any VA benefits online, I asked him to show me the BCBS website in hopes that we could glean some information on what makes a successful dashboard to this participant)

### Blue Cross Blue Shield Website

1. **What do you do on here?

- Well usually I go, this pops up under our coverages on what we pay, recent claims activity through May. I check when it says we’ve exceeded our deductible, and I look at the explanation of benefits and if I have a question then I ask. My wife had surgery and I looked at it and we overpaid, there was a problem and they owed us $500, you can click the claims and it goes back a year. 

2. **So you primarily look at it to make sure your billing was done correctly?**

- Yes, I look at it for doctors that are in the realm of the coverage and ask questions. They have an explanation to health issues such as sleep apnea. I do use it for that.
- You can’t schedule appointments through here, but we use [redacted]  hospital, that’s why I was hesitant to start with the VA. We have used [redacted hospital] for 20 years so I will be transferring the information to the VA due to my wife retiring. 

3. **What do you think the health dashboard does well?**

- It showed  our family deductible and the worst case that we pay out of pocket. The coinsurance and what I have spend and what is remaining for deductible and out of pocket. 

4. **Anything else?**

- It does go directly to full spending summary and the last 5 claims which are what I would be looking for overall, so I like it. It is easy to navigate

5. **What could be improved?**

- Not much, I mean it’s a quick shot of where we stand. Sometimes doctors recommend seeing someone, it tells me if I am going to pay a small amount or nothing. If it’s nothing I would do it this year to stop paying out of pocket next year. 

6. **How did you apply for VA healthcare?**

- I did it in person, my buddy is a VSO he’s an army lad. He is highly active in Veteran Affairs. I had never signed up for the VA and 10 years ago I went down to the VA. For a number of reasons to show that there were people that need VA care, so I went and signed up. I filled out the forms, turned them in, stayed for a picture and left. It took about an hour at [redacted hospital]. People were extremely nice and always are, that’s it that’s how I signed up. 

7. **Did you do anything online?**

- When I signed up I don’t remember doing anything online, but I think maybe they referred me to VA.gov and I get emails all the time from the VA. Signing up I did physically at [redacted hospital], filled forms, took a picture and done. 

## The My VA dashboard

(Directed to va.gov)
1. **How do you currently use the website**

- (*Participant is trying to log in but can not remember credentials*) I have been, I am trying, I think I have something in the email, and I poke on that and it takes me somewhere else. (reading page). (*Goes to myhealthevet*). I can’t remember, I usually know what my logins are. I can’t find how I normally get in there; I think sometimes its in response to an email and for some reason it fills in my password. Let me try one more thing. It says no. Let me try one last thing, let me look at my favorites here. No I don’t see it there either. 

(Samara's note: Interview ended. Participant could not log in to VA.gov)
