# Conversation Guide: Direct Deposit Updates

## Warm-up Questions (2 minutes)

OK, let's get started.

1. **First, can you tell me a little bit about yourself? (If stuck, prompt to ask about service experience, where they live, their work).**

- Recently married, veteran operation IEF, served 25 years, unemployable currently. 

2. **Do you have a VA.gov account? If so, about how often do you use the website?**

- Yes. Uh, I was using it quiet a bit during my appeal but normally just my HealtheVet.

3. **Do you use the My VA personalized dashboard on VA.gov? If so, how often?**

- I don’t think so.

4. **What benefits do you currently receive from the VA?**

- The disability benefits, home loan, and education as well.

5. **Do you use VA.gov to manage this/these benefit(s)?**

- Just the prescription, healthcare notes, and labs. 
- (Samara clarified that she does this on MHV) Correct, because va.gov send you back to myhealthevet.

6. **(If more than one benefit) Which benefit do you find yourself most often managing online/on VA.gov?**

## Managing benefits (10 – 15 minutes)

1. **Can you show me how you manage your claims and appeals online?**

- I just went to appeals.
- (Samara asks her to show her how) I have to go over to Microsoft edge to do that. I also have to get logged in to do that. (*Goes to va.gov site and signs in. From homepage, clicks the Check claims and appeal status link on the homepage*). I go to disability check claim and appeals.
- (*On claim status tool*) Yea, and actually I still have one that is waiting. I don’t know where it is at.

2. **Can you show me how you manage your health care on on Myhealthevet**

- (*Goes to myHealtheVet site*) Then I'll check refills and if I have any available I click on it to refill it, I don’t think I do right now. 
- (*goes to refill page*) Click those boxes then hit refill. 
- (*Goes back to MHV home page*) (Samara asks what she links she finds to be useful on the homepage) Refills, Prescriptions, Appointments and Labs.

## The dashboard (10 – 15 minutes)

- (Samara Directed her back to va.gov)- (Sign in page) This page I don’t care about, having to continue to go back and forth between computer and my phone, there has to be a way that this can be better. I understand the confidentiality and everything. 

1. **What do you use this page for? How often?**

- - (Directed to myVA) (Samara asks if she has been here before) - No. There’s all of the claims, the healthcare. I may have been here before, but it directs me back over to myhealthevet.

2. **What do you think the purpose of this page is?** 

- Like I said the way it looks its everything on one page, any benefits I may be entitled to and the application which I am already in. The claims, and then down here dates I have enrolled and where my va is, secure messaging. Its kind of all in one. 

3. **Do you think this page would be useful to you?** 

- The only part would be to track claims, but I don’t know if (*goes to claim status page*) I know the board had kicked it back to the regional. Everything has been denied besides this. Then it really doesn’t tell me where its at besides right here, but it has been kicked back to the local area for these three issues. It doesn’t tell me if they are looking at it or what. Exactly, I understand I got denied but to the rest of the appeal where is it, what are the next steps, how long do I have to wait. Similar to the same board decisions and doesn’t tell me where I am at, if this is where I am at and this is where I am it doesn’t tell me that I am here. The 16months. 

4. **Why do you think the claim/appeal status tool would be the only useful part of the dashboard?**

- Well part of it is the time and the steps taken to login to this verse myhealthevet. Myhealthevet saves my username and password. Even if it doesn’t I just enter, and it takes me right in whereas VA.gov makes me put everything in and then receive a code to many times. The login process is to long. 

**OK, now let's talk about the rest of the dashboard.**

1. **What do you think "Find VA Benefits" is?**

- Well that would tell me what all I am entitled to if I don’t have it already
- (*Goes to FVB selection page and selects burial and memorial benefits*) 
- (Back on My VA) (What are you looking at here?) - They can help with the burial and funeral arrangements I guess. Different things like that. 
- (Do you find this information to be helpful to you?) Not really because my kids and I are familiar with the VA burial benefit. It might, the apply for preneed eligibility might be good, I already have life insurance, so I don’t have to worry about that. 
- (What information would be helpful to you?) Lets see, ill go back to find (*goes back to FVB selection page*). I guess healthcare would be good, education, housing assistance if you qualify for it or don’t own a home that might be good. When my son gets off active duty the website might be good for education, family caregiver benefits, disability he will be applying for, a career, life insurance, and burial maybe. 
- (What would you want to learn about) Health care would be the number one. 

2. **What do you think "Your Applications" is?**

- If you have applied for benefits you may be able to see where the application is in process or if they need more information.
- (Samara asks her whether she thinks this would be useful if she had a new application) Probably very helpful because the VA system in WY nobody knows nothing because of the new changes. My local VA has two people that know what is happen whereas everyone is new, and we have a temporary doctor.
- (What information would you want to see if you were applying for benefits)? Well to see what medical benefits I qualify for, co-pay, premium, general health insurance questions. Correct. 
- (What would you want to see re: status?) Well yea like where is it at, has it been approved, different things like that. If more information is needed I can do it now before the snail mail arrives as long as I can upload it through the computer. 

3. **(If applicable) What do you think Track Claims is?**

- (Participant confirmed earlier that she understood this section and found it to be useful)
- (What can be improved?) For me not so many. These go all the way back to 2008, there’s no reason to have all of them on there. If I am missing the decision letter I can’t get it anyways. 

4. **(If applicable) What do you think Manage your VA health care is?**

- (Do you find this information to be helpful?) If I was not using the VA on a regular basis it might be, but since I use it as a primary it isn’t. I already know I am enrolled and which va clinic I prefer. 
- (Would you check Messages/prescriptions here?) If it were the only site, yes, but I like myhealthevet. 

**OK, now let's talk about the dashboard in general.**

1. **What are your overall impressions of the dashboard?**

- Like I said most of it is a repeat of myhealthevet and because of the login problems with this site, va.gov I prefer myhealthevet.

2. **Do you find it easy or hard to use? Why?**

- It is pretty easy
- (*Goes back to the homepage*) You get from the homepage you can get anything, education, records, VA card by going back to the homepage and download the letters. It is helpful to veterans where government benefits require the letters and I can request my dd214 where it is not available on myhealthevet. The only thing in the healthcare section would be to apply for healthcare that is not redundant. If I didn’t have myhealthevet this (My VA) would be a good alternative. 
- (Do you find that va.gov homepage more) I use this page the most. 
- (Which links on here do you find to be the most useful?) Well it would be the claims and appeal status, then the download your benefit letter. I have used the request military records as well.
- (Which do you find to be more useful — the homepage or My VA?) I would say (the homepage is) more useful because it is condensed. Here I have the entire thing whereas on My VA you have to scroll to find what you want.
- (If we merged the homepage and MY VA, would that make your experience better or worse?) Maybe (better). 
- (What if we replaced the homepage with My VA — would that make things better/worse) Worse, I like this page better, the homepage. 

3. **What information is not on here that would help your to more easily manage your benefits and your experience at the VA? How would that information help you?**

- (*Back on My VA*) One would be the VA notes, the doctor’s notes. Well on myhealthevet I can pull up my last appointment and see what was said, recommended or done. The other thing is that somewhere we can find scanned documents from our community care providers, when we go see them they take their notes and sends it to the doctors and have no idea unless we go to the va and ask for the scanned documents. The biggest thing is the scanned information from outside providers. 

4. **Is there anything that you would remove or take away from the dashboard as it is now?**

- Old claims, once the decision has been made unless there is access to the decision letter I would remove them. Once you are enrolled and everything is set you can remove that one. Yea that would be about it. Or even condense the appeals one like the prescriptions, there are a few then you can click review all of them. 

5. **In addition to anything we may have already discussed, what would you change about the dashboard to make it something that would help you more easily manage your benefits and your experience at the VA?**

- That’s probably about it.

6. **How do you feel about how the dashboard is organized (i.e.. Find VA benefits, Your Apps, etc.)? Would you change it, or keep it the same?**

- Other than what we discussed I would probably keep it.
- (Would you organize by benefit type?) Um, if it were setup like the homepage, yea something like that. I am also thinking I am up there in age and familiar with computers. I have a friend that is my age but not computer literate, so she needs this. People with PTSD, older need something similar like this homepage. 
- (Would you use My VA in the future?)Possibly, same thing I use myhealthevet.
- (How could we better educate veterans about this page?) Possibly highlight in a different color, because MyVA has a separate link at the top (of the navigation). Yes, on the homepage. It is easy to get to. 

7. **Anything else that could be improved?**

## The dashboard and homepage (5 minutes)

Now let's talk about the VA.gov homepage.

(**See response under whether she finds the dashboard easy or hard to use**)

1. **When you are logged in, do you use the VA.gov homepage? If so, how?**
2. **Which would you say you use more *when you are logged in* — the My VA dashboard or the homepage?**
3. **If the My VA page either replaced or merged with the existing VA.gov homepage only when you are logged in, how, if at all, do you feel this would change your experience of using VA.gov?**

## Post-Task Interview (2 minutes)

1. **Overall, how did you feel about all of the screens we looked at today?**

- Semi comfortable with the whole thing, well I have used the page, so I am familiar with the setup.
- (Ask if she would recommend to another veteran) Possibly depending on computer literacy, TBI, etc. Yea I would. 
  - Because they might find it easier and more workable than I do. 

2. **In addition to anything you have already mentioned, how could this overall experience be improved?**

- No, I don’t think so. I think everything that we’ve discussed is all I can think of.
