# Conversation Guide: Direct Deposit Updates

## Warm-up Questions (2 minutes)

OK, let's get started.

1. **First, can you tell me a little bit about yourself? (If stuck, prompt to ask about service experience, where they live, their work).**

- I am a 59-year-old female, in [redacted], many years ago I married my Drill Sgt, joined army at 17, went to coco beach and served on active duty. Did guard and reserves. Along the way as a civilian became a RN, I was marriage have twin boys and a daughter. Married 19 years then divorced. Worked as a nurse and got my lawyer degree. Now practicing lawyer. One twin is severely disabled from Afghanistan and my other twin in serving as a pilot in Afghanistan. 

2. **Do you have a VA.gov account? If so, about how often do you use the website?**

- I do. I would say at least weekly and sometime if I am trying to deal with an issue daily, this past week at least 4 times.

3. **Do you use the My VA personalized dashboard on VA.gov? If so, how often?**

- A little bit I don’t find it. I don’t use it much.

4. **What benefits do you currently receive from the VA?**

- I receive full medical, services as an MST, work with a VSO and working on submitting my (disability) claim. I have done three years in a row. 
- (Why have you not submitted your disability claims?) - It is a really tough thing to do, I have a great difficultly, I got off active duty in 79 and national guard records are terrible to get. The first VSO wasn’t good, using outside resources are road home to provide services. Now I have a VSO and all of my records.

5. **Do you use VA.gov to manage this/these benefit(s)?**

- Well yea I do, that’s were the claim is. I also submit questions, complaints/ medical and not. Trying to have them answer something that has been over a year.

6. **(If more than one benefit) Which benefit do you find yourself most often managing online/on VA.gov?**

- Health care. 

## Managing benefits (10 – 15 minutes)

1. **Can you show me how you manage your health care benefits online?**

- (*On myhealthevet homepage*) Now I am on the regular record. 

1. **What things do you manage on MHV?**

- I will always do my pharmacy online, track the delivery and don’t use the medication lists, its not always updated. I view my appointments but easier in blue button. I have attempted to schedule an appointment, but it has not worked out. It can work but not easier. I frequently use secure messages; I am 90 miles away from the facility. I use that very often, blue button medical appointments, I always read my medical chart, so I go to va blue button report then I select range of time and information. I normally check appointments or like x ray reports, lab reports. Then va notes from the provider. 
- The rest I don’t use it’s a lot of self-reported. I don’t use goals or who or how anyone uses it. I use research health; I am signed in for a lot of va sites, so I go to research health that is more like research based. I use the veterans research, Medline is interesting, you can’t always get one because you may need a membership. It is the national laboratory of medicine; it is well respected medical research. I am a nurse and an attorney and practice malpractice; I rely on medical research and get it from my va page. 

2. **What don't you find useful on MHV?**

- So I don’t use the medication list (prescriptions), I use the phone under the blue button. I don’t use va facility locator or track health on my health records. I don’t use this, its been suggested that I track my food when I was using the va weight loss program. I have not done the healthy living assessment and I don’t use community either. 

3. **Why do you prefer the Blue button tool?**

- It is usually the most up to date because when you are seen or have an appointment it has to be updated; the format is easier to read. I find it to be more up to date and accurate. 

## The dashboard (10 – 15 minutes)

**Alright, let's take a look at your My VA personalized dashboard.**

1. **You mentioned earlier you don't use the My VA dashboard. Is that accurate?** 

- (Samara's note: participant clarified she does use the My VA dashboard sometimes)
- I use this to track claims, I looked at it yesterday. The two FOIA requests don’t have all of my information, I didn’t know it was on this page until yesterday. It says its closed but its not. It feels like no one updates this.
- I didn’t know my medications were here, I have come here to find my benefits to look for dental. I have come here to look for benefits for my father who was a veteran as well and looked for life insurance as well. 

2. **Do you Remember how you found the My VA dashboard?**

- I googled VA, I am sure that is what I did. 

3. **What do you think the purpose of this page is?**

- I think it is an effort to try to make the communication process electronic, I don’t think it is as effective and feels like it’s a way to have a person to talk to me from the VA. It is the presentation not the effectiveness. 

4. **How could we make this page more effective for you??**

- (Samara's notes: TL;DR is she finds it frustrating that there is no way to follow up with a real person when you have questions. She also took us to the terrible Contact Us form the VA has which is basically useless)
- When you have a difficulty on the site or little information having a person to contact would be helpful, My biggest problem with the site is that when I try to ask the question, say I am on the site, I ask a question or make a complaint it comes to the inquiry system (*Goes to VA's contact form*). Extremely frustrating. It gives different category, asks for information, question them goes into topics. Usually I go to medical health and services, it is hard to use drop down menu, then you have to go to the drop down within the drop down. There are topics that you are unable to get information on. It doesn’t really have the FOIA request or issues that aren’t on here that has the information. Or when I have come in and put something on women’s health care. Under the veteran information it will often kicks me out, I think it says create dialog or don’t create dialogue on the page. The other problem is that you submit this form, you get an email response that you have put in your request and they say you will have a response in 3-5 days , it says you can add additional questions but it does not allow you to add information. It is not an effective way to ask questions. I have put that I have called 10 times but unable to get a refer they come back to contact patient advocate, when I placed that I have already done that. I know if you email questions to providers you can only message ones that you are assigned to. 
- (Samara clarifies that her biggest pain point is lack of effective communication) Right, just getting an answer is often not good enough. It would be nice to have a person as a follow up instead of just the contact us, and an extension where to reach them. 

**OK, now let's talk about the rest of the dashboard.**

1. **What do you think "Find VA Benefits" is?**

- (Samara's note: Didn't ask her what she thought FVB was because she had already mentioned she used it and demonstrated understanding)
- (Do you find this to be helpful or unehlpful?) I think it has been, it’s not my primary source but it has been helpful. I know I have gone here, yea I do think it is helpful.
- (Why?) The definitions, the disability compensation and how you fill it out, it is all in one place. For my needs it is helpful. 
- (What isn’t here that would be helpful?) I would like to have women’s health care and I think it would be helpful to have a section for PTSD, MST. This is a good starting point to click and go from there. The only thing you see on here is talk to a veteran crisis line, it would be nice to have ptsd services. It is interesting it has a women’s veterans and PSTD on the bottom (the footer). I never saw that. That is interesting, you know how they have the block, I think that would be a better place, even myself I did not know it was there. 

2. **What do you think "Your Applications" is?**

- When I see your application, I would expect it to be my disability applications, but I only see the notification. I had no idea what this was to tell you the truth.
- (Samara's note: We established the participant started the disability application on eBenefits so that is why it wasn't showing up on VA.gov).
- (Samara clarified) When I looked at it I though it would be my disability, and this is not what I expected. 
- (How did you fill out the application? — Va.gov, ebenefits, paper?) I have repeatedly tried on va.gov (note: Participant was confused. filled out on eBenefits). I have filled in whole sections only for them to disappear. I typed it out in a word document because it times out. I thought I could copy and paste but it won’t take it. I did it on the va.gov (note: again, on eBenefits) where I started it, that’s another thing is finding where I started it if hard. 
- (Samara had her go to the How to Apply page and go through the wizard. This is how we established she had actually applied on eBenefits). I am not even sure where I started but wherever I did I had great difficulty with it. (*Goes through wizard*) I probably did fill it out on ebenefits, (*Clicks link to eBenefits*) yes this is exactly where I did.  That is frustrating because when I think va.gov I think it is all one, I didn’t realize ebenefits was a different site. 

3. **(If applicable) What do you think Track Claims is?**

- Track claims these are just FOIA claims, I don’t think it shows me that status. Well I wouldn’t expect it to show me the status because I am not finished. There is a place that gives me a status that I have an intent to file. 
- (Is this information helpful to see?) I use the status, what they have received. I sent records that were direct to them from direct agencies outside. When you send things from an outside agency they get them but there is no way to track them. 

4. **(If applicable) What do you think Manage your VA health care is?**

- It says check secure messages and it would take me back to myhealthevet, I think all health information should be in one section. It is not helpful because I would do it all on myhealthevet
- (Samara's note: Her Rx data was inaccurate on her dashboard, but we established that it had also not been updated in MHV so the issue was not on our end) On all three of these they have all been refilled, it says working on refilling them and working on your order. It takes me over to myhealthevet, that is interesting because it says the same thing here. Refill submit date June 20th fill date June 23rd. I never have to track it. See that’s wrong to, its not correct, its not harmfully incorrect and is an active refill, when it has already been refilled. 

**OK, now let's talk about the dashboard in general.**

1. **What are your overall impressions of the dashboard?**

- I guess I am not really impressed by it
- (Why?) Not a lot of detail and it is incorrect, such as track claims is not updated. It stuff I can do other places. 
- (What would you add?) I would have it as more links, the big VA and disability under, I would have more links and personal contacts. Where are the tools that they say?
- (What do you mean by more links?) To the actual, here would be a good place for links for a VSO, links to advocates, to people that you can speak to. I am savvy but if I can click on a link to a page with more information, maybe third grade level, not a lot of detail that would benefit me. 
- (What is not useful?) I have no reason to have a profile.
- (Why?) Its not like it would go to other people I know. 
- (*Goes to profile* Would you update information if if updated other parts of the VA?) Yea, but I think something on myhealthevet already does that. If it could get to them, its like get your own information on you. It says it will now update your information more places. I did not know this was on here. I guess to me it is not harmful, I am just not going to look at it because I don’t need it. 

2. **What information is not on here that would help your to more easily manage your benefits and your experience at the VA? How would that information help you?**

- Well I think the biggest issue is that ask a question, it is ineffective and limiting, difficult form and in response goes nowhere. On many sites like Chicos, they have an interactive, virtual conversation, why doesn’t the VA have something like that. Obviously you can only have it 8-5, the veteran crisis line you can text and talk online, why not have a disability or records person where you can have a conversation. It seems like the va is trying to get as many people out of the system and replace it with technologies. I can do it by my dad can’t because of his vision so it’s very difficult.

3. **Is there anything that you would remove or take away from the dashboard as it is now?**

- I think it would be improved, again with all of the information in one area so you can look just for that is better.
- (Samara's notes: I think she means having everything on one site instead of spread out over multiple sites)

4. **In addition to anything we may have already discussed, what would you change about the dashboard to make it something that would help you more easily manage your benefits and your experience at the VA?**

- No.

5. **How do you feel about how the dashboard is organized (i.e.. Find VA benefits, Your Apps, etc.)? Would you change it, or keep it the same?**

- More alphabetical like other pages on the side they have the list. I get to places and don’t know how to get back so having a nice listing or a drop down would be a better way to do it.

6. **(If they don't mention this) Do you feel the dashboard would be improved or not by organizing it by benefit type? Or would that make no difference to you?**

- (Samara's note: This was not in the session notes, but the participant did mention she thought this would make more sense).

## The dashboard and homepage (5 minutes)

**Now let's talk about the VA.gov homepage.**

1. **When you are logged in, do you use the VA.gov homepage? If so, how?**

- Rarely.

2. **Which would you say you use more when you are logged in — the My VA dashboard or the homepage?**

- My VA.

3. **If the My VA page either replaced or merged with the existing VA.gov homepage only when you are logged in, how, if at all, do you feel this would change your experience of using VA.gov?**

- I think merging it would be fine but anytime it is consolidated I assume it would be easier.

4. **What are your thoughts on the homepage?**

- On the healthcare stuff it’s all that’s on myhealthevet, I wouldn’t go there to find it first. File a claim takes us back, I guess this is a better link, very wordy but the main page is okay because it send more information. 

5. **Do you think the Overall style and layout is more effective or less effective?**

- I think this is more effective
- Why- better organized and the links are all crossed. It is cleaner and easier to use.  

## Post-Task Interview (2 minutes)

1. **Overall, how did you feel about all of the screens we looked at today?**

- It was interesting because there were thing I had not seen before. They are not the worse sites in the world, but I focus on what I need so I may be bias. 

2. **In addition to anything you have already mentioned, how could this overall experience be improved?**

- I think there has be a way to email to any VA person/provider or anything, I can email a VSO. If there is anything email you are unable to email administrative, they just wont reply. I would like to go to find va and then find NSTA coordinator I should be able to email that person. The only option is to call, I work full time and playing tag is not very helpful. If I need to access someone and speak to them I should be able to email them. Anyone here if I need more information there should be someone that can email me back, you can email but some are unable to response. The box, they are unable to take response. There should not be a page that says they are unable to take responses. 
