# Conversation Guide: Direct Deposit Updates

## Warm-up Questions (2 minutes)

OK, let's get started.

1. **First, can you tell me a little bit about yourself? (If stuck, prompt to ask about service experience, where they live, their work).**

- Ok, I am 58-year-old white mother, grandmother. Live in [redacted]. I used to be in the  IT industry and was in it for 28 years. I no longer work, just had knee surgery, the VA took care of me there in March. I was supposed to get my other knee done in the next couple of months.

2. **Do you have a VA.gov account? If so, about how often do you use the website?**

- Yes. Uhh, at least once a week or more depending on if I need to order medication.(*Signs into VA.gov*) This is what I always have to do to get in there. I can’t even imagine, maybe it works. I can’t imagine many elderly people doing this. I now security is important but there has to be a better way. 
- (Samara's note: Participant later realized she meant MHV and not VA.gov. Uses MHV once weekly)

3. **Do you use the My VA personalized dashboard on VA.gov? If so, how often?**

- I believe so yes. Yeah I think I  have been here before. I think I have seen it, but I haven’t used it.
- (Samara's note: Again, the participant later realized she meant MHV and not VA.gov. Uses MHV once weekly)

4. **What benefits do you currently receive from the VA?**

- Health benefits.

5. **Do you use VA.gov to manage this/these benefit(s)?**

- My health is where it is. This is  the screen I am used to. I use myhealthevet.
- (*Goes to MHV*)

## Managing benefits (10 – 15 minutes)

1. **Can you show me how you manage your [one of their benefits] benefits online?**

- (*On MHV*) I use refill prescriptions. Track deliver use the medication list so I can take it to the new doctor. I view the appointments, I used all of it even the medical reports to look at my lab tests. It has been very helpful for me. 

2. **What do you find to be most useful on this site?**

- Most useful, I guess refill and prescription is what I use it most for. It is useful to use my medical  reports

3. **How often do you use MHV?**

- This is what I was referring to when I said at least once a week. Sorry if I misunderstood what you were asking.

4. **Anything you find to be confusing?**

- Just the login part, all of the security is  cumbersome. 

## The dashboard (10 – 15 minutes)

**Alright, let's take a look at your My VA personalized dashboard.**

1. **What is the purpose of this page?**

- It looks like it encompasses all va benefits I have or could apply for. 
- (Can you tell me more about that?) Well it allows  me to find the VA benefits, maybe that I haven’t used or might be interested in applying for. There looks like I can refile prescriptions from this page, schedule an appointment. All of the health stuff is here as well at least some of it. I can request my veterans’ records; I have never viewed my profile. This is the main page for me that I would find most things if I come to this page.
(Ask only if not covered in the previous section)

**OK, now let's talk about the rest of the dashboard.**

1. **What do you think "Find VA Benefits" is?**

- Finding VA benefits.
- (Is this helpful?) It would be helpful to me.
- (Why) Because there might be benefits that I am unaware of that may help me.
- (What would be helpful?) What benefits are available and how to apply for them. 

2. **What do you think "Your Applications" is?**

- This section should show me any va benefits I  have applied for
- (Is this helpful?) Sure. This would be helpful
- (Why) Just to know that we are on the same page, when I have applied for something and it shows on this page I know I did it correctly. I applied correctly.
- (How could this section be improved?) I really don’t know to be honest with you.

3. **(If applicable) What do you think Track Claims is?**

- N/A – Participant has never applied for disability.

4. **(If applicable) What do you think Manage your VA health care is?**

- It is just giving me links and information to  My VA healthcare.
- (Is this helpful?) It is helpful
- (Why?) Well because I  could come to this one page and see my benefits, with one of them being healthcare it is immediately accessible with the links
- (How could this section be improved?) It would be helpful to show some sort of information or list of appointments that I have already made right here. 

**OK, now let's talk about the dashboard in general.**

1. **What are your overall impressions of the dashboard?**

- It is plain, direct and to the  point. There are no frills but that is fine. It is plain and gives you  the information you need.

2. **Do you find it easy or hard to use? Why?**

- It is easy to use.
- (Why?) well the subject matters for each section are easy to read, clear, the links are readily available. I like that you have the different fonts for the sections and subsections, it makes it easy to read and use. It is one page and just scroll up and down. Pretty simple.

3. **What information is not on here that would help your to more easily manage your benefits and your experience at the VA? How would that information help you?**

- No, I really can’t think of anything right now. 

4. **Is there anything that you would remove or take away from the dashboard as it is now?**

- Nope. 

5. **In addition to anything we may have already discussed, what would you change about the dashboard to make it something that would help you more easily manage your benefits and your experience at the VA?**

- I would make it clear somehow that this is my dashboard and I don’t see anywhere on here that it is my dashboard so that would be helpful. If I have a question and I am talking to someone at the VA if you say dashboard when it say my va. I would then highly MyVA, just make that clearer. With the icon or something. 
- (Samara clarified that the page is My VA and she should not have been calling it "the dashboard")
- (Why?) Just like I said if I were talking with someone at the VA about this page, I would always know this is My VA page and talking to the people at the va about this page and they would know what I am talking about.

6. **How do you feel about how the dashboard is organized (i.e.. Find VA benefits, Your Apps, etc.)? Would you change it, or keep it the same?**

- It is just really plain; I don’t know who you’re paying to do this, but it is really plain for a va website.
improve- well I would spend money on it because it gives everything you need but if someone that works IT could make it prettier
- (How could we make it prettier?) Use pictures, like I said my My VA standout better, a website designer would make it better. The page is fine, the content is great what is here is great. For a lot of people, they don’t care that is plain and not pretty. To make the veteran feel like  they are cared about you might make the page classier or upgrade the graphs/add graphics to the page. This page is simple I  could do it myself, I’m not a designer but I know how it works. 
One thing that  could be done, like manage account, view account the sessions could be up at the top in a menu form, like a submenu to make it quicker to get to. That’s one thing you could make it easier to navigate because you do have to scroll to find things.
- (Would it be improved or not by organizing by benefit type?) Yeah that doesn’t really make any difference to me.

## The dashboard and homepage (5 minutes)

**Now let's talk about the VA.gov homepage.**

1. **When you are logged in, do you use the VA.gov homepage? If so, how?** 

- I have before, yes. 

2. **Which would you say you use more *when you are logged in* — the My VA dashboard or the homepage?**

- I don’t think I have used the MyVa page before,  I have been it but use myhealthevet, but have used the homepage. 

3. **If the My VA page either replaced or merged with the existing VA.gov homepage only when you are logged in, how, if at all, do you feel this would change your experience of using VA.gov?**

- My VA is all of my personal stuff verses, trying to think what’s missing. This is really my personal stuff to  so  I think I would merge them, definitely.
- Why- It is all my va stuff really. It is  all my information so yeah maybe I would do that. It may make it easier for people if they just came to this page. 

4. **Does the design match your expecations/standards of what design on VA.gov should be?**

- Yes definitely
- Why- Well it is better organized, easier on the eye. You have graphics, it looks more professional and someone spent more time to make it look  nice. It looks classier. 

## Post-Task Interview (2 minutes)

1. **Overall, how did you feel about all of the screens we looked at today?**

- I think appreciate the fact that someone is taking the time to ask veterans opinions about the Va websites. That’s it really, I appreciate the fact that someone is looking at it and cares what we think. 

2. **In addition to anything you have already mentioned, how could this overall experience be improved?**

- Not that I can think of, no.
