# Conversation Guide: Direct Deposit Updates

## Warm-up Questions (2 minutes)

1. **First, can you tell me a little bit about yourself? (If stuck, prompt to ask about service experience, where they live, their work).**

- Like what? I was in Afghanistan it was an interesting experience. I had to adjust to the new normal.

2. **Do you have a VA.gov account? If so, about how often do you use the website?**

- Uh, yes I have. I don’t recall, I hardly go into it. The last time I was there was maybe 2-3 years ago. 

3. **Do you use the My VA personalized dashboard on VA.gov? If so, how often?**

- I don’t believe so.

4. **What benefits do you currently receive from the VA?**

- Disability and medical benefits.

5. **Do you use VA.gov to manage this/these benefit(s)?**

- No.

6. **(If more than one benefit) Which benefit do you find yourself most often managing online/on VA.gov?**

- I just need myhealthevet and sometimes go to ebenefits.

## Managing benefits (10 – 15 minutes)

1. **Can you show me how you manage your health care benefits online?**

- (*Goes to Myhealthevet Login Page*) I am in. 

2. **Tell me  what  you use on this website?**

- I look at my appointments and medications. 
- Clarification- I try to do it only but I don’t know how  to do it. I manage them here and send messages to my provider for prescriptions. 

3. **Anything that you don’t use or isn’t useful?**

- Schedule an appointment or cancel my appointment. I still can’t find out how to use them. I tried to learn but it didn’t work.

4. **Anything you would add to the MHV homepage?**

- You know we get reimbursement for travel to appointments. It would be nice to be able to do it here instead of the kiosk at the va

5. **Anything you would remove?**

- Good questions, I am not sure. 

6. **Can you log into eBenefits for me and show me what you use on there?**

- (*Logs in to ebenefits*) I may have to reset my password because I forgot it. I am in. 

7. **What do you do on here?

- I check my disability payment.

8. **How do you get to check payments?**

- (*Goes to payment history page from eBenefits homepage*) They changed the page since last time, I go to payment history. I print out the letters for the VA and the benefit letters

9. **Do you do anything else on here?**

- I generate letters.
- (Can you show me how you do that?) I guess I  go to my documents (*navigates to letters page*); I don’t do it much so sometimes I have to navigate  to get there. I don’t know how to do it.

## The dashboard (10 – 15 minutes)

**Alright, let's take a look at your My VA personalized dashboard.**

(*Directed to VA.gov and signs in)

- I didn’t know I could do that. 

1. **Have you ever been to My VA?

- Never

2. **What do you think the purpose of this page is?**

- I guess this one I can go to ebenefits and myhealthevet at the same time to check the benefits. You can navigate different pages and no need to login to other website. Everything one page. It looks combined.

**OK, now let's talk about the rest of the dashboard.**

1. **What do you think "Find VA Benefits" is?**

- It looks like everything is on this page and I use to have to go to other websites. Check my benefits and using this page here I can find everything I need here.
- (Clarification: What do you think this information will do?) It will have everything I need and not that I won’t have anything I don’t need. 
- (Clarification: What are you looking at?) All that applies to me is here, so I don’t have to waste time.
- (Samara's notes: It still wasn't cleear to me that she understood this section was to help her learn about benefits. I don't think she got that.) 
- (Clarification: What was the goal of this page?) Make it easier to manage benefits
- (Is this helpful?) Very helpful
- (Why?) So next time I come back here I don’t need to figure out where to do

2. **What do you think "Your Applications" is?**
-Tells me the process. (Samara's notes: She did mention that these are applications she has started and they would show her her status along the way, but that was not captured in the notes)
- (Is this helpful?) It is helpful

3. **(If applicable) What do you think Track Claims is?**

- I am not sure because what I am seeing now is very helpful. Like I said one thing I would like to add is manage the travel claims. We can’t tell if they reimburse us or not, just submit a claim.
- (What is the purpose of this section?) If you have claims pending just waiting on the status here.
- (Is this helpful?) Yes
- (Why?) So we know what is going on and what we need to do next
- (What could be improved about this section?) I am not sure how to answer, but this would be helpful if it tells us the status and if it is backlogged. 

4. **(If applicable) What do you think Manage your VA health care is?**
- I think it will take us to myhealthevet
- (Is this helpful?) yes
- (Why?) Just like myhealthevet it helps me manage my health care
- (What could be improved about this section?) Add travel claim because it is part of our healthcare. 

**OK, now let's talk about the dashboard in general.**

1. **What are your overall impressions of the dashboard?**

- I am very impressed
- (Why?) It makes it easier and you don’t have to go to different pages, you can choose what is on this page add and remove

2. **Do you find it easy or hard to use? Why?**

3. **What information is not on here that would help your to more easily manage your benefits and your experience at the VA? How would that information help you?**

- Having the ability for us to review our medical records and print them out quicker. 

4. **Is there anything that you would remove or take away from the dashboard as it is now?**

- I don’t know, this is the first time I have used it. Everything is useful and having the ability to add and remove is awesome.

5. **In addition to anything we may have already discussed, what would you change about the dashboard to make it something that would help you more easily manage your benefits and your experience at the VA?**

- Ability to reschedule or cancel appointments would be easier. Also show us where to go if it is in a new department. 

6. **How do you feel about how the dashboard is organized (i.e.. Find VA benefits, Your Apps, etc.)? Would you change it, or keep it the same?**

- Right now, I am new to it so keep it the same.
- (Would you organize it by benefit type?) I think it would be better and it would be easier instead of going through the whole page. Best if benefits relate to each other like everything with medical with medical. 

## The dashboard and homepage (5 minutes)

**Now let's talk about the VA.gov homepage.**

1. **When you are logged in, do you use the VA.gov homepage? If so, how?**

- Last time I used it was so long ago I don’t remember.

2. **Which would you say you use more *when you are logged in* — the My VA dashboard or the homepage?**

- N/A — She doesn't really use either.

3. **If the My VA page either replaced or merged with the existing VA.gov homepage only when you are logged in, how, if at all, do you feel this would change your experience of using VA.gov?**

- It's positive because your moving in the right direction
- (Why?) Because one stop for all that we need instead of going to different websites. If you need to look for something and don’t know where this would be helpful.

4. **In terms of the overall design, do you prefer My VA or the homepage?**

- I like this page
- (Why?) Everything is organized by relating topics. 
- (Anything else?) No, that’s it. 


## Post-Task Interview (2 minutes)

1. **Overall, how did you feel about all of the screens we looked at today?**

- Very positive
- (Why?) Makes it a lot easier to look for what I want and find what I need to.

2. **In addition to anything you have already mentioned, how could this overall experience be improved?**

- It is good how I see it now.
