# Conversation Guide for Back-End Tools Team, External Services Integration, June 2020: P4

## Introduction

- To  start, let’s talk a bit about what application(s) you're working on. Can you tell me about it/them?
 	 - P4: I am on the VSA project, under the e-benefits team. Our goal is to migrate features from old site too va.gov. We are working on for 686, the ability to add dependents to their claim.

## External services integration

- What external services does that integrate with?
 	 - P4: BGS, we write an API on va.gov that calls from BGS.
- What has that process been like so far?
 	 - P4: It’s definitely been a learning curve. We need one new feature right before this, and it was one of the first. It was hard to know who to talk to. 686 will be first form (prior was just an HTML form, simpler.)
 	 - P4: The vets API code repo is very structured. But a new repo with BGS, it was unknown where things go or what to call things. The integration itself, we got lucky to work with Lighthouse who was a little ahead of us and we were able to leverage what they where doing. 
- Did you have to contact Platform support or reference documentation? How did you go about learning how to structure them?
 	 - P4: I reached out to Lighthouse who had worked with the integration for input and feedback. Before submitting, I talked to Platform support for feedback on structure.
- Did the feedback result in changes or were you able to push through?
 	 - P4: It was pretty straight forward and I got good feedback. 686, may be different, but not there yet.
- What has the documentation been like for BGS?
 	 - P4: It was helpful, we got one that had all their services. They knew we where working on it for awhile, and only recently gave them more - would have been helpful a couple months ago. I prefer too much documentation over too little.
- What was meeting and collab with BGS like?
 	 - P4: They have been very responsive and helpful. 
- What would you recommend for a new developer starting with vets API or BGS?
 	 - P4: There a helpful youtube video tutorial for vets api, (https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=V_i8JLXk5rg&feature=youtu.be)
- Can you talk about what it was like ramping up on EVSS?
 	 - P4: We were all new to this and rails in general. Challenges was knowing who to talk to, how to get access, testing was hard. You needed access to their network. There was pressure to develop something quickly, but I didn’t have the access I needed.
- Whats it like testing those external services?
 	 - P4: Roadblock with no access. No documentation on here’s a request, here’s a response - we felt like we where flying blind. Lighthouse came up with a tunneling trick that let us test locally. That has been a game changer for us. We still use it. 
 	 - P4: I don’t know that trick is officially documented anywhere, saw a presentation on it. Lighthouse has been a couple steps ahead of us on most, and we’ve been very lucky to get info from them.
