# August 5, 2024 Medallia PCI Report Summary

Created: August 5, 2024

This is an analysis of Veteran feedback from Medallia on PCI from **July 20, 2024 - July 31, 2024**. 

Feedback from Veterans is captured via Medallia. This report queries Medallia for comments that originated from the use of the in-app survey on the appointments-pre-check-in and appointment-check-in URLS & their sub URLS.

## Notable Comments

**Like PCI**

> Great service<br>

> I like it<br>

> Check in for my upcoming appointment at JB this Wednesday.  The check in was easy, one missed option that could be added is travel reimbursement for the convenience of the member or caregiver. Just a thought, everything else is streamlined in the system. Excellence is my aim in life, I want that for everyone, uncomplicated  & simple. Yours is an Excellent system!<br>

> Checking in, it was very covenant.<br>

> Thank you for seeing this process up!  It is so much better and less complicated.  Thank you<br>

> THIS PROGRAM IS GREAT. FIRST TIME USING. HOPE THIS SITE KEEPS GOING. WISH IT WAS HERE 20 YEARS AGO. THANKS TC<br>

> Easily complted<br>

> It is easy to do the pre checkin it is not difficult to understand at all<br>

**Trouble updating contact info**


> My information is all wrong and I don’t know how to change it.<br>


> Log in for an appointment .  This website never seems to have my next of kin info no matter how many times I’ve put it in<br>


> Emergency contact info is in the system but does not show properly on the app.<br>


> I should be able to change things on this site in regards to my address, phone number like home-work-cell phone , email change. As soon as I said no to these changes I’m told to bring in these items and insurance. Which they have the updated insurance.<br>


> I checked in. I could do that. I want to change my emergency contact info. I can’t do that. I should be able to do that.<br>


> Why ask to verify info, if I cannot make changes.  I’m update record at check in<br>


> It would be More customer friendly, if I could make changes to my phone number and my personal information online, instead of waiting until I got to the VA Hospital.<br>


> Check in for appointment. Wouldn’t let me through text that was sent because it still has an address for emergency contact that I haven’t used since 2016. I don’t understand how the VA system is not connected in all departments so that my information is correct. This is so dumb.<br>


> Check in. My emergency contact information was wrong. My anger is with the failure of the VA to maintain record integrity. I was remarried in 2018 and submitted the changes. In 2023, my records still had my ex-wife listed as my dependent, survivor. I attempted to correct this but the VA decided it was my fault and took back $4000 in dependent pay stating I had not filed the correct paperwork Today stands as a glaring example that the VA computers and input personnel are frequently at fault not the veteran. It took standing in front of a Han not a fax line or computer that got it right today. I am still out $4000 I am entitled to and it makes me Andrey after faithfully serving for 27 years.<br>


**Issues verifying identity**

> Unable to enter name and date of birth to check info is correct<br>

> Never recognize my name. This is useless<br>

> Don't send me a message to pre check in for an appointment.  It's ironic that you message my phone with an appointment reminder. Then with a link to pre-check in. The pre-check in doesn't recognize my name or date of birth. Please fix your problem with site. I KNOW MY NAME, HOW TO SPELL IT AND I KNOW MY BIRTHDATE AND HOW TO ENTER IT CORRECTLY.  Thank you.<br>

> Log in, says no account with that name.  Site is crap, name and DOB was correct and entered 3 times with same result<br>

> I was trying to check-in for an appointment on Friday. I can't check-in due to an issue with my name. Someone messed up my name for this reason appears all messed up on your system, and the system don't recognize me.<br>



