# June 13, 2024 Medallia PCI Report Summary

Created: June 13, 2024

This is an analysis of Veteran feedback from Medallia on PCI from **May 29, 2024 - June 11, 2024**. 

Feedback from Veterans is captured via Medallia. This report queries Medallia for comments that originated from the use of the in-app survey on the appointments-pre-check-in and appointment-check-in URLS & their sub URLS..

## Summary

### Surveys Submitted
- eCheck-in = 699
- Pre-Check-in = 1582

### Completed Task
- eCheck-in
  - Yes = 72%
  - No = 27%
- Pre-Check-in
  - Yes = 80%	
  - No = 20%

### Average Customer Satisfaction Scores
- eCheck-in = 3.53
- Pre-Check-in = 3.64

## Graphs
- Refer to the [DOMO Dashboard](https://va-gov.domo.com/page/825663825) for graphs

## Notable Comments

**Like PCI**


> Good system<br>


> It’s very convenient and easy to use<br>


> Very good<br>


> It was simple and easy.<br>


> Easy to use<br>


> Eye appointment check in was smooth and easy<br>


> Love this system, confirmation reminds me. Super cool when appts “come up via text. No Now, if you would make a system where I can refill my meds I’ll be thrilled. I can’t even get into this new system anymore. It’s the saddest. I’ve been in months. I’m hoping my primary just refill my med soon.<br>


> PII-NAME PII-ADDR  Check in & travel claim. I love that you have made the travel claim so much easier.  Filling the old way was so difficult it raised my blood pressure 10 points.  THANK YOU!!!<br>




**Staff not using PCI even though Veterans are**


> Checking in. Seems redundant to use the app and then talk to a representative<br>


**Long wait times at check in or no staff at check in counter**


> I have arrived at my ascertained appointment place early as directed. I was communicated with that I would need to fill out some paperwork but no one is here with paperwork for me to fill out. Oh well, huh?<br>


> Should be able to make simple corrections here when we are checking in.  Also, if you want us here 15 minutes early, you should be open so we CAN check in and talk to someone if there is a problem.<br>



**Trouble updating contact info**


> Just want to correct the spelling of my Sons name:  It should "Not" take an Act of Congress to add a T to his 1st name!<br>


> Someone or something is pulling former supervisor information and plugging it in as my emergency POC.  Stop this!<br>


> Appointment. It would be much easier to have the ability to make changes, such as your Emergency contact.  Rather then waiting for an appointment and then taking up staff time to make simple changes.<br>


> It would be helpful if I could update the information needed instead of having to go to another site.<br>


> There is no way to update personal information in the precheck in. My email information needs updating.<br>


> How do I edit my Home address data??<br>


> Wondering how to change emergency contact on file ?<br>


> How do I change my mailing address to my physical address for mileage purposes?<br>


> Verify appt date, time and details.  A question was asked about the information presented with a yes/no answer.  I answered no but there was no link to correct an error or omission of the incorrect  information.<br>


> Should be an edit button on things like address or phone # as these things can change<br>


> Why can’t you up date on line?  Wow!!<br>


> It would be preferable to update emergency contacts and Next of kin information On this site rather than at the appointment.<br>


> Verify information. Need to be able to edit contact info here using a secure validation method. Not to wait until check in at clinic.<br>


> Need the ability to update information (change phone numbers) myself using th VA app<br>
