# September 17, 2024 Medallia PCI Report Summary

Created: September 17, 2024

This is an analysis of Veteran feedback from Medallia on PCI from **September 1, 2024 - September 15, 2024**. **There were 447 comments.**

Feedback from Veterans is captured via Medallia. This report queries Medallia for comments that originated from the use of the in-app survey on the appointments-pre-check-in and appointment-check-in URLS & their sub URLS.

**NOTE There is a new issue where Veterans enter their last name and it is getting wiped out; this is the first time we are seeing this issue**


## Notable Comments

**Like PCI**


> Pre register I like that your information is showing up makes it easy to enter in the boxes<br>


> Easy to use<br>


> Easy to use<br>


> Excellent notifications, easy to use<br>


> I received a text to be able to check in and it did not work. This is a great tool if you’re able to get it working right.<br>


> This was great and easy<br>


> Extremely simple check in process.<br>


> Very efficient<br>


> Simple to use the online service, at least  with my cell phone. The format is perfect for cell use. What about those who don’t have cell phones or smart phones?<br>


> Very efficient sign in procedure.<br>




**Staff not using PCI even though Veterans are**


> Online check in does not work! I waited over an half an hour for someone to tell me I need to check in normally. Why even offer a service that does not work?<br>


> Checking in for appointment didn’t work. Sat in the lobby waiting to get called before approaching the desk for help. I was told it didn’t show me checked in on their end.<br>




**Staff not contacting Veterans when appointments are canceled**


> Appointment was cancelled due to sick Dr!!!<br>


> I showed up for my appointment and they said I canceled my appointment. When I didn't.<br>


**Trouble updating contact info**


> It would be nice for me to be able to update my next of kin information when I’m verifying my appointment and not have to do that when I come in for my appointment. This should be online and automated.<br>


> Asked if current information was accurate. A new unauthorized phone number was added and I was unable to correct it here.<br>


> Update emergency contact information.  My wife's information is wrong but I can't update it.<br>


> Tried to update work phone number. Not correct, but could not change and system went to next page.  Was expecting ability to updated, but was unable to.<br>


> Update what you were asking me to review and update. The system does not allow changes to be made; i.e., status of Spouse. If I cannot make and effectuate necessary and changes to information, why are you asking me to make necessary changes. Under the name of my wife/spouse, it is blank and I was unable to  properly identify for informational purposes, my named wife as either my Wife, or Spouse.<br>


> I don’t understand why my personal information on the VA site doesn’t match what comes up on the appointment check-in site. Th VA site that I login to has all my current info such as emergency contact.<br>


> Should be able to update info right through this check in portal. Shouldn’t have to go somewhere else to accomplish.<br>


> I tried checking in online. When I got to emergency contact info it needed changing. It told me to check in with staff to update it. When I checked in the staff told me they weren't able to update the info and I would have to go somewhere else.  They said it has been this way for 6 months. Why hasn't the site been updated yet? You want people to do more online, yet you can't keep things up to date to make that possible. Makes me want to give up trying to do things online.<br>


> You need to program your site so we the vet. Can make nessary personal info changes !! Forinstance you do not have my hard address complete or my emergency contact correct either , and many times its not possible to have contact with people to make these changes ! Thank you however for what you all do 🙂<br>


> I have on several occasions changed my wife’s address to the same address as mine but it never gets updated<br>


> There is no edit button to update spouses information<br>


> Verifying emergency contact. Why doesn't the system allow me to make correction?<br>


> Change my address since MSA can’t correct or change my address properly when I am in person at the facility. App need to allow Veterans access to change their address themselves since staff can’t change it<br>


> Checkin. My work phone number is not correct and it will not allow me to change it, so when asked, “is this information correct?” I must say NO and it won’t allow me to check in.<br>


**Issues verifying identity**


> System did not find me, could bot pre check in<br>







