# December 31, 2024 Medallia PCI Report Summary

Created: January 2, 2025

This is an analysis of Veteran feedback from Medallia on PCI from **December 16, 2024 - December 31, 2024**. 

Feedback from Veterans is captured via Medallia. This report queries Medallia for comments that originated from the use of the in-app survey on the appointments-pre-check-in and appointment-check-in URLS & their sub URLS.


## Notable Comments


**Like PCI**

> This is the easiest way to get into this site without going thru passwords.  My wife & I Love it!  Thanks to the developers!

> Second time I have tried this and it worked great both times.  Good job, VA!

> Check in for my appointment. I wish I would get this option for checking in for all of my appointments. It would save me tons of time, not having to stand in line, and save your receptionists time too.

> Online checkin and travel claim was uneventful and helpful!  Big improvement!

> Excellent experience. Thank you for the great work.



**Staff not using PCI even though Veterans are**

> I used this online check-in but they told me I was not checked in because this app doesn't work.







**Concerns with check in at kiosks**

> You had a very simple system in place to claim travel when you had the kiosk system in place at va health facilities. I’m convinced that your removal of the kiosk system and constantly change of the apps and login/check in procedure is not for simplicity and security but is in fact to complicate the process of the veteran receiving the travel pay he/she are due.







**Trouble updating contact info**

> Trying to check in but only one telephone number was wrong with no provisions to Correct it except cause the check in to fail.

> Why isn't your site allowing me to change my contact info? My home phone, spouse, and email address are not correct.

> Could not update my incorrect information. Why? I did it when I checked in at the station. If I say contact information wrong I should be able to correct the information. Why?

> I should be able to update my information within this application, not go to another office.  It’s not sensitive information and it would certainly make it easier.

> Pre check in - but I updated my emergency contact last visit on the 18th. The VA had it correct in their system, but you have old info showing in here. Both work, but you don't show the currentinfo.

> Update my POC and next of kin information. You cannot do this right here. Why should I have to call to change? It's difficult enough to contact anyone over the phone at the VA.

> Been saying for months maybe even years that my emergency contact is not correct. Has never been updated. Does not even allow me to update this information on the app.

> Update next of kin and emergency contact information. The number supplied is incorrect. The person at that number couldn't help me and sent me to another number that could't help me. Frustrating.









