# October 31, 2024 Medallia PCI Report Summary

Created: October 31, 2024

This is an analysis of Veteran feedback from Medallia on PCI from **October 16, 2024 - October 30, 2024**. 

Feedback from Veterans is captured via Medallia. This report queries Medallia for comments that originated from the use of the in-app survey on the appointments-pre-check-in and appointment-check-in URLS & their sub URLS.


## Notable Comments

**Like PCI**

> Drive to and back from my appointment   PS thank you for a wonderful new way to request mileage reimbursement.

> I’m impressed with the clear and simple instructions which make compliance easy.

> Dr. Appointment.  This check in is very nice as it includes travel submission.  Saves me all the internet confusion to apply separately .

> First time seeing this, Thanks for the All in one check in including travel..  VA Hospital is only the Very Best in Care.. Thank You



**Staff not using PCI even though Veterans are**

> Your automated check in says "Have you arrived at your VA health facility?"  The last time I used that process, as I had previously,  I took "facility" literally and checked in while in my car in the VA facility parking lot. Wellllll, when I walked upstairs to the provider's office, the nurse chastised me for not doing the check-in at the office.  So if that's what you want us to do, wait till arrival at the provider's office, then Please change the language on your site to say "provider's office" rather than "facility ".  

> Lab work.  Checked in with app.  After waiting awhile, I was told I needed to check in again in person.























