# September 4, 2024 Medallia PCI Report Summary

Created: September 4, 2024

This is an analysis of Veteran feedback from Medallia on PCI from **August 15, 2024 - August 30, 2024**. 

Feedback from Veterans is captured via Medallia. This report queries Medallia for comments that originated from the use of the in-app survey on the appointments-pre-check-in and appointment-check-in URLS & their sub URLS.

**NOTE There is a new issue where Veterans enter their last name and it is getting wiped out; this is the first time we are seeing this issue**


## Notable Comments

**Like PCI**


> It helps me keep track of my VA information. Before the website I was having an awful time keeping up with everything.<br>


> User friendly<br>


> Always a simple process and not too many questions.<br>


> I have no problem getting on the site or using it when I do !<br>


> Easy to use<br>


> Super!  I have a Samsung S20 phone that I'm using and everything went great! Thank you very much.<br>


**Staff not using PCI even though Veterans are**


> I completed the online checkin and waited for about 20 minutes then I went to the desk and asked if I completed the online check in do I need to check in with them too. I was told yes because the online information does not get communicated to them. They do not know that I am here unless I stop at the front desk. If this is indeed the case what is the reason for online checkin? Now am listed 15 minutes late for my appointment when I have been sitting in the waiting area 30 minutes.<br>




**Trouble navigating larger facilities**


> Go to an appointment but the alerts gave me no directions and ended up being at the wrong VA center. Time is good but put the location for better accuracy<br>




**Staff not contacting Veterans when appointments are canceled**


> When video Appointment's are canceled and Dr.fail to inform VA patient, that is lank of professionalism which lead to waste of patient entire day as patient waited for a call all day .<br>


> I made an appointment with the Dermatology Department last March 11.  My appointment was for today. I found out last Thursday, through another department, that my appointment had been canceled.  I received no notice whatsoever from the dermatology department as to why it was canceled, when it was canceled, or when if it was even rescheduled!!  All this after waiting more than five months!  Great service!!  I called Hines twice; I still have not received a return call.<br>

**Trouble updating contact info**


> I keep telling the system that my address is incorrect and it doesn’t prompt me to correct it. I need to change my address in this system.<br>


> Outdated information remains and cannot be updated. This is useless.<br>


> I was asked to verify my contact information and when I checked “no”, there wasn’t an option to edit the info<br>


> You asked if contact info was correct it was not but there was no way to change it.<br>


> Update emergency contact.  When doing an online Checkin, it tells you to update your emergency contact with a staff member. Why not just let us update it?<br>


> My email username is misspelled. I thought I got it corrected last month, but apparently not.<br>


> Because my home address is wrong but your app brought me here instead of giving me an option to fix it.<br>


> I was trying to edit my information and it says to talk to a staff member when I check in. If you're helping Veterans then let them be able to edit their own information online, not through a staff member. I have told "staff members" of this change for over 20 years to no avail. They don't change/edit it so why should I as the Veteran rely on what they do not do.<br>


**Issues verifying identity**


> **I type in my name for check-in then I did my birth date 09-05-1988 and press the next button and the last name box resets<br>**


> I have an appointment and its not letting me log in even though i put the right information in.<br>


> **My iPad does auto fill for my name. Chose that, key in my birthday, and hit the go button, and it wiped out my name and said please enter your name so I go back again and autofill and the same thing same thing happened a third time. can we do better?<br>**


> Register for my upcoming appointment  It doesn’t recognize my last name<br>


> **The last name box was filled in, initially, by an auto-fill. But as I was filling in my DOB, the ‘last name’ box went empty and prompted me to fill in…again! By design? Or redundant?<br>**


> **This app sucks I entered my last name  Then my date of birth  My name disappeared  I resubmitted it and my birthday disappeared!  I did this several times before I realized I wasn’t working. Fix this idiotic mess<br>**


> **Every time I entered my last name and push submit it erased my name<br>**


> Confirm appointment. The app will not accept my last name<br>

