# June 27, 2024 Medallia PCI Report Summary

Created: June 27, 2024

This is an analysis of Veteran feedback from Medallia on PCI from **June 12, 2024 - June 25, 2024**. 

Feedback from Veterans is captured via Medallia. This report queries Medallia for comments that originated from the use of the in-app survey on the appointments-pre-check-in and appointment-check-in URLS & their sub URLS.

## Notable Comments

**Like PCI**


> Easy and convenient to check in online<br>


> It's not that hard<br>


> It was easy<br>


> Check in online This has gotten much more user friendly<br>


> Wow, this new travel pay system is great, thanks<br>


> Easy to complete questions<br>


> First time using the check in program. Worked perfectly. If I use this do I still need to check in at the front desk?<br>


> On line travel claim submission is great, but why does this have me checking online but then I still have to wait in line and check in with receptionist?<br>


> Pree check in for appointment and everything was good with no problems thank you for your good service to veterans<br>


> The service is excellent it couldn't be better<br>


> Quick and easy<br>


> Check in and mileage reimbursement. I think you finally got it almost right (adding tolls automatically will make it perfect)!!<br>


> This is great best setup ever. Keep up the good work.<br>


> Check in for appointment and file a travel claim. Great check in process and even better travel claim process!<br>


> An easy process to check in.<br>


> First time used. This is simple, straightforward. Very well done! 😎<br>


> Arrived for medical eye appt to check in early & fill out travel paperwork. Both receptionist & automated checkin & travel were excellent & expedited both of the processes. Thank you for modernizing these processes!<br>


> Checking in on device very easy and helpful.<br>


> Easy to use system<br>


> Very postive experience<br>


> Travel using the automated system with the check in is easy and efficient.  Filling out the travel information using BTSSS is totally frustrating and requires multiple attempts to get it done.<br>


> Check in for appointment and submit travel pay. When the program works it's great otherwise it is an extreme hassle to maneuver through.<br>


> If this is truly an alternative to the access.va.gov website.  It’s a wonderful thing.  Thanks!<br>




**Staff not using PCI even though Veterans are**


> CHECK IN FOR THE SECOND TIME! NO DOUBT, I WILL HAVE TO CHECK IN AGAIN ON LINE  AND THEN AGAIN WHEN I ARRIVE.  ENOUGH IS ENOUGH, GET YOUR ACT TOGETHER!<br>


> On line travel claim submission is great, but why does this have me checking online but then I still have to wait in line and check in with receptionist?<br>




**Trouble navigating larger facilities**


> I arrived in a manual wheelchair and had difficulty getting to the correct department. I called them, someone came to get me. The doctor was amazing, great attitudes by all staff. My best experience ever!<br>


> EKG….i checked in as requested by text but tech should be provided with sign on office to knock to inform additionally not all individuals receive text so signage should be established to inform clients<br>



**Trouble updating contact info**


> Update spouse name.  First wife died Feb 2020 and I have changed spouse name in VA system, but it is still showing my first wife in this application.<br>


> Made this choice because although the question were important and easy to respond howecer, it would be nice to allow corrections and changes to be made right on the spot rather than waiting<br>


> I should be able to complete minor edits in this process. Relationship for Emergency Contact  Work Phone I should be able to remove. I retired many years ago.<br>


> Can't figure out how edit info.<br>


> Edit & make corrections.  Even though it asks if this is correct or not I was unable to make changes<br>




**Issues verifying identity**


> When I went to check in it asked for my last name and social security number I did that and it told me the social and birthdate didn’t match<br>





