# August 19, 2024 Medallia PCI Report Summary

Created: August 19, 2024

This is an analysis of Veteran feedback from Medallia on PCI from **August 1, 2024 - August 14, 2024**. 

Feedback from Veterans is captured via Medallia. This report queries Medallia for comments that originated from the use of the in-app survey on the appointments-pre-check-in and appointment-check-in URLS & their sub URLS.

## Notable Comments

**Like PCI**

> It makes it easy to confirm the appointment and NOT SO EARLY that I am likely that I am going to forget about it again.<br>


> Because it was quick and easy to use.<br>


> Always a great experience, never a wait people are fantastic<br>


> Very good all around<br>


> Very easy to a the site. and use it<br>


> Website works great easy to locate info and confirm appointments thank you! Appreciate your service & inspiration.<br>


> It was easy to use and understand<br>


> Very good<br>


> Easy to use and very understandable.<br>


> Easy to respond to and confirm<br>


> Easy to use and makes confirmation of information fast and reliable.<br>


> Very easy<br>


> The vs has implemented awesome online services that include today's appointment reminders which are always helpful.<br>


> I received a reminder text of my upcoming appointment which is very helpful to me.<br>


> Easy to use<br>


> I like the new system<br>


> User friendly<br>


> It did work well<br>


> Love the text messages, keep me informed of my appointment times, places, and providers.<br>


> I appreciate the opportunity to verify all my personal info prior to my appointment<br>


> I LOVE THIS TOOL!!<br>


**Staff not using PCI even though Veterans are**


> It doesn’t do any good to use this system of check in if the system doesn’t let the department front desk know that I’ve checked in!! Sat over an hour so far.  I did have to let them know that I was here. Very useless check in system<br>


> Signed in on line and completed all questions and travel claim. Waited 25 minutes and inquired at front desk. They saw no thing and manually signed me in. This is the second occurrence at this location. Does this mean you have to check in online and then check in again at the front desk?<br>



**Trouble navigating larger facilities**


> I got a card in the mail that said go to west Cheyenne VA and I am here now. Now I am told this is not the right place and the appointment “might be” at the main hospital. So how bad is this????<br>


**Staff not contacting Veterans when appointments are canceled**


> Check in for my appointment.   I can't check in because they cancelled my appointment when I got to the counter.<br>


**Trouble updating contact info**


> I went into VA.GOV previously and updated my emergency contract but it is still the same when I go through pre-check in.   The same is true with my work phone number.   I’ve been retired since January 31, 2023  and have updated VA.Gov to reflect it AS well as gone to Central Registration which stated  that it was no longer in my records as a contact number but it still is.<br>


> Update emergency contact and phone number. I should be able to do that in this message, not go all the way out go through the complicated login process.<br>


> Address of next of kin is wrong and should be able to edit in this app, but can’t<br>


> Updated my info @ VA, not correct here,  emergency contact info correct. Will update 14th @ VA again.<br>


> I would like to update my spouse's work phone number at this site during the check-in process. PLEASE ALLOW us to edit/update the phone numbers.<br>


> Emergency contact information is not listed in the app however when I checked in for appt with representative a clinic everything was listed.<br>


> Check in. Unfortunately, my emergency contact information was 17 years out of date despite repeated attempts to correct it online and in person.<br>


> Could not update information. Why can’t you correct a phone number or relationship on this site. Stupid<br>


> I Should be able to edit the work number listed for me.  I haven’t been at this number for over 25 years.  The actual check in was easy.  But wouldn’t allow me to continue beyond attempting to fix the work number info.<br>


**Issues verifying identity**


> I entered my name and birth date accurately and the information would not proceed. Not sure what's wrong<br>


> VA.gov website is “temporarily unavailable” half of the time. Also l have tried but I have failed to create a log in account with Login.gov or ID.me. Very frustrating!<br>


> I have had my last name for 75 years. I do not understand WHY your system does not recognize my last name Especially when I worked at the Tucson VAMC (SAVAHCS) for 36 years.<br>


**Attempting to file for Travel after Check-in**


> Check in and file my travel voucher. I left my phone in my car because I was running just on time. So I checked in at the desk and tried to use the app after my appointment just to file the travel voucher but couldn't find how to do it.<br>


> Checked in at the desk but when I tried to check in online and.get travel pay it locked me out<br>


> Request travel benefits after physically checking in before having extra time to complete request prior to 8:15am. I attempted to file for my travel benefits claim at 8:17 and the service was blocked.<br>


**Want more appt info**


> I cannot get exact information about my appointment. Where is it? What is it for? It just keeps repeating useless information. I need real details. Not just time and location. What is this appointment for what I’m getting is useless. I don’t know why I’m coming to the VA. I don’t know if I need a driver, am I having a procedure? Is this a first time visit? Is it a follow up?<br>


> Would like to have more specific information what this appointment is about or will include<br>




