# December 15, 2024 Medallia PCI Report Summary

Created: December 16, 2024

This is an analysis of Veteran feedback from Medallia on PCI from **December 1, 2024 - December 15, 2024**. 

Feedback from Veterans is captured via Medallia. This report queries Medallia for comments that originated from the use of the in-app survey on the appointments-pre-check-in and appointment-check-in URLS & their sub URLS.


## Notable Comments

**Like PCI**

> Check in for appointment. I really like this feature and it hasn’t worked for me in a few weeks.



**Staff not using PCI even though Veterans are**

> Check in for appointment  Only to be told repeatedly by various staff members at the VA that the electronic check-in is useless and we have to check in in person anyway so don’t bother using the electronic check-in. I’ve been told this twice in the past week.

> System doesn’t work at INDY Eye Clinic.  The text told me I was checked in. I went to the office window and was told that they didn’t have to check me in if the system told me I was checked in.   Now it’s 30 minutes past my appointment and I haven’t been called. Now a different office person tells me the system isn’t working.  Totally unacceptable!

> Why check in on line. If when you arrive at VA. You have to check in again??

> Trying to check in by my app. I didn't know I still needed to see the front desk to confirm my check-in. My travel pay would not update through my app. What the purpose of using the app if I still have to wait in-line to see the front desk receptionist?













**Trouble updating contact info**

> I’ve told staff for years that they’ve never had my wife’s info updated on website and  kept saying it would be done ….still not !

> Been trying to update my emergency contact/next of kin staff members at all VA facilities passing the buck to the next person or say I can get it done at my next appointment. I’ve been to the hospital,clinics,went on line,called, still can’t just get one address changed.

> You do not have my emergency contact information or next of kin, and the site won't let me add it. It just says to tell a staff member. When I try to do that, they don't know what I'm talking about.  Why can't I add it on the site?

> editing my emergency contract and next of kin for married name and address changes. I should be able to do that online, not have to wait until I am at my appointment in person. This is unacceptable.

> Why do you ask to verify information, but if it's not correct or incomplete don't allow me to correct it on line. Had to verify ID just to get there, but not good enough to make updates?







**Too many notifications**

> How many appointment confirmations are you going to send? A total of three notices, two are within 1 minute of each other!



