products/education-careers/school-comparison-tool/design/caution-flags/ui/readme.md, before:

## InVision Caution Flags Prototypes:  

DEPO is moving towards a singular, scalable approach to cards throughout VA.gov. Part of that approach is creating a consistent alert system throughout the cards. Our task is to leverage some of the initial exploratory work they've done for  the display of caution flags on the search results of the GI Bill Comparison Tool so Veterans are less likely to explore schools with cautionary warnings. 

[GIBCT Caution Flags v0.0 - Desktop](https://bahdigital.invisionapp.com/share/YUIACDIH34S)  
[GIBCT Caution Flags v0.0 - Mobile](https://bahdigital.invisionapp.com/share/9MIACE1FGHN)  

<kbd><img src="https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/blob/master/products/education-careers/school-comparison-tool/design/caution-flags/ui/images/Desktop%20Search%20results%20v0.0.png" width="320"></kbd> 
 
<kbd><img src="https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/blob/master/products/education-careers/school-comparison-tool/design/caution-flags/ui/images/Mobile%20Search%20results%20v0.0.png" width="160"></kbd> 


[GIBCT Caution Flags v0.1 - Desktop](https://bahdigital.invisionapp.com/share/SCIACE37P2J)  
[GIBCT Caution Flags v0.1 - Mobile](https://bahdigital.invisionapp.com/share/CRIACEMVQD9)

Commit message:

Added first CF SRP/Profile Prototype link

products/education-careers/school-comparison-tool/design/caution-flags/ui/readme.md, after:

## InVision Caution Flags Prototypes (Dec 2019):  

DEPO is moving towards a singular, scalable approach to cards throughout VA.gov. Part of that approach is creating a consistent alert system throughout the cards. Our task is to leverage some of the initial exploratory work they've done for  the display of caution flags on the search results of the GI Bill Comparison Tool so Veterans are less likely to explore schools with cautionary warnings. 

[GIBCT Caution Flags Search v0.0 - Desktop](https://bahdigital.invisionapp.com/share/YUIACDIH34S)  
[GIBCT Caution Flags Search v0.0 - Mobile](https://bahdigital.invisionapp.com/share/9MIACE1FGHN)  

<kbd><img src="https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/blob/master/products/education-careers/school-comparison-tool/design/caution-flags/ui/images/Desktop%20Search%20results%20v0.0.png" width="320"></kbd> 
 
<kbd><img src="https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/blob/master/products/education-careers/school-comparison-tool/design/caution-flags/ui/images/Mobile%20Search%20results%20v0.0.png" width="160"></kbd> 


[GIBCT Caution Flags Search  v0.1 - Desktop](https://bahdigital.invisionapp.com/share/SCIACE37P2J)  
[GIBCT Caution Flags Search v0.1 - Mobile](https://bahdigital.invisionapp.com/share/CRIACEMVQD9)  


## Update (Feb 2020):

Now that BAH has implemented DEPO's new Caution Flag pattern into the Search Results Page, we're focusing on improvements to the Caution Flags in the Institution Profile. Part of our work is also focused on continuing improvements for Caution Flags in the search. A major aspect of this work is language considerations, specifically making the Caution Flags plain language to improve comprehension with users.

[GIBCT Caution Flags SRP-Profile v0.0 - Desktop](hhttps://bahdigital.invisionapp.com/share/AGIACXL4ZJB)
