**Conversation Guide: VSA Caregiver, Usability research of shortened form based on disability rating for the 10-10EZ, September 2021**

*Start recording to the Cloud.*

* **I have started recording. I'd like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record my screen and audio as we talk today?"**

Ok. Now we're really ready to begin!

**Warm-up Questions - 5 minutes**

* Do you currently have health care benefits through the VA or through another provider? I have health care with VA and Medicare.

* Tell me a little bit about how you chose this health care option? Va healthcare, I guess about close to 3 years maybe.

* Have you ever filled out the VA Health Care application either partially or fully? I did it in person.

**Health Care application introduction page - 5 minutes**

* Please read the entire page and let me know if any questions come to mind:

* After participant reads and initial questions are noted: I would click on the button then start from there.

    * What do you think of the listed requirements?

    * Is there anything that you would not have on-hand or would need to prepare before starting this application?

    * Do you have any additional thoughts or questions?

**Variation 1: Applying to health care benefits, 50% or higher disability rating is known at sign in (~half of participants, participant should have a disability rating of 50% or higher) - 15 minutes**

Let's pretend that you went through the sign in process and are taken to here (authenticated Intro page), from here please continue with the application.

* Participant will next be shown the short form notification

    * Can you tell me a little about your thoughts as you read this page?  I guess I would wonder what check you eligibility is, I would click there to see if I were eligible. Okay so I do qualify so I would go back up and click start application. 

    * What do you expect to happen next?

    * Do you have any questions? You want me to put my name right.

    * Is there anything that stands out to you on this page? Alright, let's continue

* Participant will next navigate to the first page of the form "Veteran information"

    * Mostly let the participant fill out the form: this is the same email as before; I would expect to be my email but I was wondering because you told me to put in a different email.

    * Insurance: for policy number and group I don’t know what they want me to put there. I wouldn’t know even if you weren’t there, I would call the desk to ask them. 

    * Why: Because as far as the policy name, my mom might be with Florida blue, I know them, she has a policy number but I don’t know about a group code. So for the va, what would they want me to put there, I don’t know if they use my SSN but when I check in that’s what they ask for.

    * You’d call: yes if I couldn’t reach anyone I would put my name and my SSN. If I were at the facility I would just walk to the desk and ask.

 

    * Make special note of how participant interacts with the green alert that talks about the short form: I noticed the short form and I wondered why. When I say the ratings then 50 and over you get to do a short form. I wondered why under 50 percent is different then the over 50 percent form

    * You guess: I was thinking maybe if someone was 40 percetn or less there were additional questions that may could assist in a higher rating but that’s the only thing I could think of. I would hope that’s why they have it like that. I know people try to get a higher percentage but then again someone with over 50 would want a higher to. Just don’t tell me I am getting a shorter form because how would I know.

    * Why do you prefer it not to tell you: if I didn’t know I would get a shorter then I wouldn’t wonder why or be concerned why mine would be different. that would be in the back of my mind.

    * Other concerns: I guess I would want to know what was different about it. if were face to face I would ask. if I am on a computer I couldn’t ask. I would only ask why I get a shorter form.

    * Look at this notice, thoughts: that’s where I would be like why am I being asked less questions. I don’t know why I would be asked fewer questions.

    * Let look at the next as well, does this help or leave you with more questions: Yes. That makes sense. That this is one of the eligibility criteria. It just ells you that they don’t need to ask about income and military service even though the eligibility didn’t say anything about it. I don’t know why they don’t need to ask it. I don’t know why they don’t need to ask it because of a percentage. I know if I am a certain percentage they know how much I am getting, but for someone else they would know how much they get. I imagine the longer version they might ask the percentage. It just knows that you are 50 or higher.

    * Asking about pay not rating: yes.

    * If I weren’t here and you got done, concerns when submitting: when I submit a form if it were just me. the concern was would if I provided the right insurance infomration. That would be my main concern. Would they call me to let me know its wrong or kick it to the side.

    * Expect to be contacted: I gave them my number and email. They contact me via email so I think it would be by email again.

    * Preferred way of contact: I prefer I get contacted by phone or text. I am not big on checking my email. I started now but a lot goes to the spam or junk. If its important and it goes to spam then I am discouraged. Within the last few months I have gotten better at checking my email because I have missed a lot of stuff.

**Post task questions - 5 minutes**

Wonderful! I have a few questions about what you just saw in the prototype.

**Overall**

* What did you think of the overall experience? I like the application expect when I came to the insurance infomration. That part would have confused me. any application I don’t really like when they ask my race. I always wonder why they ask that question. I was in the military and a facilitator and I’ve always been told not to ask that but I always see it on there. Other than that I would be comfortable with the application. If I ahs regular insurance there wouldn’t be an issue but for the va policy number. I would ask them next time so I wouldn’t be confused. Even though I am retired I still get asked my last 4 of my ssn.

* Race question, what could make it better:  Yes, if there was an explanation. If you wanted a certain amount of individuals of one race. Maybe then they wouldn’t be offended. I am not offended but it may help others.

* More transparent: yes

* Tell me about this experience in your own words, as if I was another Veteran interested in applying for health care: I would tell the veteran to not rush through, read it, if they have any questions have them ask whoever is in the office. when you first get in you don’t want it rejected because you didn’t fill it out correctly. Sometimes you get contact and other times you don’t, you might not know why you haven’t been contacted and it turns out that it was wrong then have to do it again. If you don’t understand make sure you ask and fill it out correctly. If you need to call the va or the health insurance do so.

* What did you think of this "short form" experience? I like the length of it, I didn’t expect it to be that short. Sometimes you have ones that are long, this is good. I liked that. I did not expect it to be that short, you never know. I thought that was good.

* Anything stand out to you: no. I know sometimes I see on the application that they ask for gender, they have male and female but other applications have others so I think I would expect to see that because others feel comfortable when they don’t feel comfortable selecting male or female. That would be something I would write in the feedback if asked.

* Any other thoughts or questions for me before we conclude? Will we find out how the survey went.

**Thank you and Closing**

Well we really appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us today. Your feedback is so helpful to us as we continue to improve our products and services for Veterans and service members.

Thank you so much again and enjoy the rest of your day!

 

