**Conversation Guide: VSA Caregiver, Usability research of shortened form based on disability rating for the 10-10EZ, September 2021**

*Start recording to the Cloud.*

* **I have started recording. I'd like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record my screen and audio as we talk today?" **Yes.

Ok. Now we're really ready to begin!

**Warm-up Questions - 5 minutes**

**For Veterans:**

* Tell me a little about yourself:

* How many years has it been since you left the service? I left in 2015 and I was seen mostly outside of the va providers until about 2 years ago then I have started seeing my va providers. A friend of mine said I needed to see the va because of service connected disabilities so I went and moved everything over.

* How was the process: it was pretty easy, the process itself. Just getting the records over to the va was the only thing I needed to do.

* Fill out an application or Did to start the process: I don’t. I think I just went into the office and they made sure I was eligible and assigned me a team and I went with that.

* In person: Yeah.

* Use online tools currently: I do. I use va.gov and ebenefits.

* Do you currently have health care benefits through the VA or through another provider? I do I have Tricare and Medicaid. Tricare was when I was medically retired from the service.

* Tell me a little bit about how you chose this health care option?

* Have you ever filled out the VA Health Care application either partially or fully? Not that I can remember.

* Is there anything that would make you apply: I guess I could but since I already had insurance I figured I didn’t need it.

* What type of device: My cellphone.

* Laptop if needed: yes but it is my work one.

**Health Care application introduction page - 5 minutes**

* Please read the entire page and let me know if any questions come to mind:  I mean it looks like it tells you everything you need before you apply which is nice.

    * Is there anything that you would not have on-hand or would need to prepare before starting this application? I might have to go and gather a few things like my discharge information and income from last year as well as deductible expenses. Last year’s income wouldn’t be too hard because I do online taxes. I think everything else I would just need to look for.

    * Next: sign in and start the application.

    * Do you have a sing in for va: yes. I have an ID.me and a va one.

 

**Variation 1: Applying to health care benefits, 50% or higher disability rating is known at sign in (~half of participants, participant should have a disability rating of 50% or higher) - 15 minutes**

Let's pretend that you went through the sign in process and are taken to here (authenticated Intro page), from here please continue with the application.

* Participant will next be shown the short form notification

    * Can you tell me a little about your thoughts as you read this page? It looks pretty easy; it looks like you start the process right here. It looks like it fills out at least half of my application because of my service connected they don’t need to ask about finances or military service. That’s nice, it shortens the process.

    * What do you expect to happen next?

    * Do you have any questions?

    * Is there anything that stands out to you on this page? Alright, let's continue

    * **Normally uses tab when filling out a form.

* Participant will next navigate to the first page of the form "Veteran information"

    * Mostly let the participant fill out the form: 

    * Make special note of how participant interacts with the green alert that talks about the short form

    * Prompt participant to interact with alert on the third or fourth page of the form if they haven't already: Yeah.

    * Thoughts: I mean I saw it when it first popped up so I was under the impression it would be quicker and it can be clicked on with the drop down arrow.

 

**Post task questions - 5 minutes**

Wonderful! I have a few questions about what you just saw in the prototype.

**Overall**

* What did you think of the overall experience? It was super fast and super easy. I thought I would need to track down all that btu since I had a login and had a service connected disability it filled it out for me and I needed need that.

* Was there anything that stood out to you? Just the ease of use, I did not expect it to be that fast.

* Other forms: it was way easier.

* Tell me about this experience in your own words, as if I was another Veteran interested in applying for health care: I would recommend it because of how easy it was for me. even if I didn’t have the application filled out I still feel like it would be easy. Theres guided step by step applications

* Expected it to be shorter: I expected it to be longer because of having to track down the finances and dd214. Then when it didn’t need that I was surprised.

*  

* Any other thoughts or questions for me before we conclude? I don’t think so. That was so easy, I thought it would be another 10-15 minutes but once its auto populated it is pretty nice.

**Thank you and Closing**

Well we really appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us today. Your feedback is so helpful to us as we continue to improve our products and services for Veterans and service members.

Thank you so much again and enjoy the rest of your day!

 

                                                          

