**Updated 3/30/2018**

<h2>What is a transactional email?</h2>

A transactional email is triggered based on an action a user takes, eg. a confirmation email generated by a user completing an application. If you're looking to send a transactional email, these guidelines are for you!

We are not currently set up to send marketing-type emails, and these will likely not follow all of the processes below.

<h2>GovDelivery (now Granicus)</h2>

We are currently using GovDelivery to support Vets.gov transactional emails.

<h4>People</h4>

- Josh Tuscher (Joshua.Tuscher@va.gov) — Our contact on the VA side of things who got us connected to the GovDelivery team and authorized us to use the account. 
- Richard Fong (Richard.Fong@granicus.com) — Richard is a developer/technical expert on the GovDelivery side of things who can answer questions on how to get set up with TMS to send transactional emails.
- James Abys-Smith (james.abys-smith@granicus.com) — Like Richard, a developer/technical expert who can answer technical questions about TMS and GovDelivery.
- Carmel Hinkle (carmel.hinkle@granicus.com) — Non-technical liaison between GovDelivery and the VA. Happy to coordinate meetings and is good and knowing who the right person is to answer a particular question.

<h4>Targeted Messaging Services (TMS)</h4>

- This is the platform used to configure transactional emails sent through GovDelivery. **Only developers will work with TMS**. Non-technical folks will need to work with developers to make copy updates and edits to transactional messages.
- There is a GovDelivery dashboard (https://admin.govdelivery.com), but this frontend is for **non-transactional emails** like newsletters and announcements. This is not something we will need for transactional messages.

<h2>Salesforce</h2>

Salesforce is only being used for VIC-related (Veteran ID Card) emails. As of now, we are using GovDelivery for all other transactional emails.

<h2>Guidelines on Privacy</h2>

For all notes, reference the [privacy resources doc](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/vets.gov-team/blob/master/Products/Identity/Personalization/Notifications/Privacy%20Resources.md).


<h4>Getting approval for notification email copy</h4>

* Work with the Vets.gov privacy officer — Rita Grewal (Rita.Grewal@va.gov).
* Send her an email explaining you need her approval on an email we plan to send to users. Give her enough context so she knows when and why the email will be sent. 
* Attach the copy/content for her review.
* Rita should reply fairly quickly with approval or updates.

**Transactional emails coming from Vets.gov need to bounce all email replies.**

According to our privacy officer Rita Grewal, we would be liable if a veteran were to reply to a transactional email with PHI/PII — even if it is a no-reply email address and we tell them not to reply — because that info could be found in the event of a security/data breach.

Fortunately, GovDelivery's TMS allows us to automatically bounce any emails that are sent in reply to a transactional email we send. 
