# 10-10EZR MVP UAT Conversation Guide 

## P1 

----------



## Intro - 5 minutes

*Start recording.*

- **I have started recording.** I'd like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record my screen and the audio as we talk today?
- **Are you comfortable if we decide to use a recorded clip from our discussion today to share with other VA partners if we remove any information that can be used to identify you?**


## Warm-up Questions - 3 minutes

Let’s start with a few warm-up questions.

1. Do you have a service-connected disability at VA?
- If yes: what is your disability rating?
- If no, skip to question 2.
> Yes. My disability rating is 70%.
2. When was the last time you visited a VA medical facility?
> 20 minutes ago.

## First Task: [Notifications and Awareness] - 5 minutes

- Can you share any past experiences regarding updates to your health benefits information?
> I have shared all my information with the VA. Oh, updating, yes. Matter of fact, not long ago I updated something. I can't recall what it was. They always say you gotta keep it yearly, you have to update your dependents, your bank account where the money goes to.
> Yes, it was recent. It was easy. I sent them an email. I click under My Health, I got through my information, I go to VA.gov and go through my financial information, information for the bank. A couple other stuff, I can't remember now. It was simple.
- Imagine you've been notified to update your financial information in order to maintain your co-pay and health care benefits. How might you go about doing that?
> I can go to My Pay [on VA.gov], I can update anything there. Over 50%, there is no copay for Veterans. The process has been easy.
- Describe your preferred method of notification to update your health care information.
> Email. I prefer email or message straight to my cellphone.
- How would you expect to update your information online? What specific steps would you take?
> It's so easy to go to VA.gov. It's a baby step I call it. They made it so simple. I like to do it more on my computer, more secure than my cellphone. So I always update on my laptop or home computer.

### Things to watch for:

- [What's the participant's mental model around updating their health care information?]
- [If they have updated their health care benefits information before, was it in person, by phone, or by mail?]


## Second Task: [Wayfinding - Static Page] - 5 minutes

- **You'll be interacting with a beta version of the website today.** This tool has not been released and it may not function exactly the way you expect. Since it is linked to the VA system, it will show you your real information. Towards the end, I will remind you not to submit anything.
- For this next scenario, imagine you just started a new job and your health insurance has changed because of it. Now, you've realized that you need to update your insurance details for your VA health care benefit. To do that, you decided to search on Google to find out how and where you can update your information. Google takes you to this page on VA.gov you're about to see. For this scenario, are you comfortable with sharing your screen and talking through your thought process?
- Please be sure to close any personal information, like email, Facebook, etc., before you share your screen.
- [Share link to (https://staging.va.gov/health-care/update-health-information-1/) in Zoom chat]
- You arrived at this page. Please take a few minutes to review this page and explain what the content on this page means to you and then what you would do next.
> [Reading the page out loud] I can do it by phone, I can click in there. I can download the 10-10EZR, I can go into the VA. Why does this form ask about my other insurance? Okay, I know this, it's obvious. Okay, good. I see that all the requirements, the ways that I can actually update my information - there's 4 different ways. Form, mail, in-person, or online. They tell me about if I have other insurance, how to update my health benefits. And what I need to know to update it. I would then click on the green button [sign in or create an account].

**Participant questions** 
- How would you want to normally navigate to this page?
> I have it bookmarked. VA-MyHealtheVet. I always go for a secure link. I want a link in the My VA Health. I want a secure link in the message or email to take me straight where I need to go.
- Did you have any questions about the information listed?
> No, it's pretty good. It's clear. I don't see anything out of the ordinary.
- On a scale of 1-5 (1 being very poorly and 5 being very well) - how prepared does this page make you feel about the form you are about to begin?
> So far so good. It's a 5. Easy.
- Why did you give it that rating?
- Do you have any suggestions or feedback for making the page and update process better?
> I think you have everything you need right on it. If you do, I'll let you know as we go along. You provided different links, different phone numbers, you provided the form itself. Everything is already covered. I think you did a great job.

### Things to watch for:

- [Quotes from participants about any content on the static page that makes them feel uneasy, confused, or not prepared to complete the application.]
- [Comments about the terms used on the static page.]


## Third Task: [Intro page] - 5 minutes

- Could you please sign into your VA.gov account the typical way you would do so?
> I do MyHealth.
- [Share link to (https://VA.gov/my-health/update-benefits-information-form-10-10ezr) in Zoom chat]
- You arrived at this page. Please take a few minutes to review this page and explain what the content on this page means to you and then what you would do next.
> Yeah, it's simple. It's bringing back the information that's provided before, makes a little more sense.

**Participant questions** 
- Please summarize the most important information you found on the page to prepare for the form.
- On a scale of 1-5 (1 being very poorly and 5 being very well) - how prepared does this page make you feel about the form you are about to begin? - Why did you give it that rating
> Again a 5. Can't mess this up. I have a question - respondent burden. Does that mean I have to fill it out in that time or I get kicked out? Why do I have an expiration date? If there's an expiration date it should be a year from the date you're doing it.
- Do you have any suggestions or feedback for making the page and update process better?
> No sir. Everything's right here.

### Things to watch for:

- [Quotes from participants about any content on the intro page that makes them feel uneasy, confused or not prepared to complete the application.]
- [Comments about time and/or actions to gather information mentioned on intro page.]
- [Does the navigational placement of the new form make sense to the Veteran?]

## Fourth Task: [The Form] - 10 minutes

- For this next task, we are going to have you go through the form as if you were prompted to update your information. This is a special beta version of the form, accessible via the email you provided before its official release. Please be careful not to submit unless you intend to update your health benefits information for real.
- As you go through the form, could you please talk aloud about what you would need to do as you go.

**Participant questions** 
- What are your expectations regarding the prefilling feature?
> Awesome. I have provided this for 17, 18 years. So if this is correct, if it's inccorrect change it. Yes, but it's perfect. 1-5, I give you 5.
> (on the email address field) I would want a second one for this. I always like to have a second email.
> So as I go along, this form is being saved? Awesome. That is awesome. Another 5.
- (on spoouse information) Could you talk about thought process here?
> [reading outloud) Simple. Since this is a secure site and VA needs that information for pay, I figure it's okay. Now do I need to fill it out?
> (on date picker) I would love if after I select something, it would automatically go to the next portion of the field.
> I don't see the need for this question ("do you currently have the same address as your spouse?") I don't see the reason of purpose for it.
> I'm glad you have this (Who we consider a dependent) to clarify. Awesome. Having the drop down list to explain what you're looking for is clear. Another 5.
- So this is your financial information. If you do this for real, what would you expect?
> I don't understand why this is asked. My benefits, I earned them. To me, I need way more clarification about why it's needed. It would take me like 5 minutes to find this information. I always have a budget that I continue to update every day, every other day. This question is asking for my gross income, that's before taxes. Hardly anyone keeps track of before taxes. I don't like the question. You really should know how much I make from the VA conversation. Why are you asking for something that you already have? I understand in retirement, you can have more than one job. And unemployment, if you get laid off.
> (Other income list) This makes me think that you guys, the VA is working with the IRS. Just telling the truth.
> (on Spouse financial information) This is my wife's private information, it's not for me to divulge.
> (reading non-reimbursable medical expenses) Are you for real, they're gonna put this up? It's going too deep into tax information. I wouldn't want to do that.
> Who are they referring to on this (deductible expenses) page? College? Who was I paying for, me, my children, or my spouse? It's not clear enough.
> Are you enrolled in Medicare Part A, yes. So you already know.
> (On Insurance Information page) Everywhere I go, I see it called "Other Insurance."
> The previous page asked for your health insurance. But it didn't ask if you have more than 1 health insurance. So by bringing me here, I would be confused. What if I don't have another insurance? So then I think, maybe it didn't accept my information, so I have to do it again. In here it says it you don't have another insurance, click here for next page. I would like to have a button up here that says if you don't have another insurance click to the next page. (warning window "Cancel adding this insurance policy?" pops up) I'm confused, will this cancel adding the insurance I've already added?

### Things to watch for:

- [Does the participant notice the pre-fill alerts?]
- [Does the participant notice that the pre-filled information can be edited? ]
- [Does the participant notice that the household financial information is not pre-filled? ]
- [Is there any struggle with the household and insurance's multiple-responses pattern?] 

## Post-Task Interview - 2 minutes

- Is there anything else you would like to add about what we talked about today?
> My problem is the part where it felt like sharing with IRS instead of VA. I can't believe that made me uncomfortable, but it did. Everything else was simple. The guidance, the words, it was good.
- Any questions for me?
> No sir. Good to go.

## Consent to use video clips

- I want to circle back and re-confirm that **you are comfortable if we were to share a video clip of this session with our VA partners?** Just to remind you, we will remove all information that could be used to identify you before sharing and will only share the videos with VA partners with the purpose of improving VA.gov and other digital experiences.
   - If yes: Is there any part of our discussion you would NOT want shared in a video clip?
