# 10-10EZR MVP UAT Conversation Guide 

## P2

----------



## Intro - 5 minutes

- Yes

*Start recording.*

- **I have started recording.** I'd like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record my screen and the audio as we talk today?
> Yes
- **Are you comfortable if we decide to use a recorded clip from our discussion today to share with other VA partners if we remove any information that can be used to identify you?**
> Yes, that will be fine.

## Warm-up Questions - 3 minutes

Let’s start with a few warm-up questions.

1. Do you have a service-connected disability at VA?
   > yes
- If yes: what is your disability rating?
  > 70%
- If no, skip to question 2.
2. When was the last time you visited a VA medical facility?
  > mmm... sometime in the past 30 days

## First Task: [Notifications and Awareness] - 5 minutes

- Can you share any past experiences regarding updates to your health benefits information?
  > 
- Imagine you've been notified to update your financial information in order to maintain your co-pay and health care benefits. How might you go about doing that?
- Describe your preferred method of notification to update your health care information.
- How would you expect to update your information online? What specific steps would you take?

> Ok
> I'm reading how do I update my information
> Option 1 online, sign in to update
> So you want me to sign in?
> (scrolls through page quietly after prompted)
> Ok, option 1 gives me choices how I can complete the task.
> I can sign in to MyHealtheVet I use that alot
> Or I can call in or I can mail in or I could go in person the the VA here in Augusta
> I would try signing in to MyHealtheVet I worked with that quite a bit.
> If that didn't work I would call.
> If that didn't work, maybe I would mail but probably go in person.
>
> I would log into MHV first, and click on benefits
> (start with signing in to site first to find information)
> No questions about what is listed here

> I am comforatable with it, I doubt I will have any trouble with it.
> Usually these forms are very straightforward, don't have difficulty filling them out.
> I would give it a 5
> No, it looks very well done. I can't say any improvements I would recommend. It is pretty simple. 



### Things to watch for:

- [What's the participant's mental model around updating their health care information?]
- [If they have updated their health care benefits information before, was it in person, by phone, or by mail?]


## Second Task: [Wayfinding - Static Page] - 5 minutes

- **You'll be interacting with a beta version of the website today.** This tool has not been released and it may not function exactly the way you expect. Since it is linked to the VA system, it will show you your real information. Towards the end, I will remind you not to submit anything.
- For this next scenario, imagine you just started a new job and your health insurance has changed because of it. Now, you've realized that you need to update your insurance details for your VA health care benefit. To do that, you decided to search on Google to find out how and where you can update your information. Google takes you to this page on VA.gov you're about to see. For this scenario, are you comfortable with sharing your screen and talking through your thought process?
- Please be sure to close any personal information, like email, Facebook, etc., before you share your screen.
- [Share link to (https://staging.va.gov/health-care/update-health-information-1/) in Zoom chat]


- You arrived at this page. Please take a few minutes to review this page and explain what the content on this page means to you and then what you would do next.
> (scrolls thorugh page quietly)
> Ok I am reading it, it looks like just general information
> Income information for you and your spouse and any dependents you may have
> And deductible expenses from 2022, that would come off our tax return I would assume
> And the VA would determine if I need to make a copay for medicines.
> Update the personal information, email, phone number mailing address.
> List all insurance that covers me
> The privacy act statement and if I need help, there are phone numbers for me to call.
> Or contact the local Veteran Services Organization.
> Yes, I think what I would do, first of all find my tax return for the year 2022 and then I think we could probably go ahead and fill out the form after that.
> I know my health insurance easily
> 5 - I have confidence in the VA. When i have filled out forms in the past, I didn't have trouble with them.
> It is a good way to report to the VA what the VA needs. I am fairly organized with my home finances and know how to get the form from the VA
> (process better) No, I can't see anyway to imrove it. It looks like you folks have done a good job with it.


**Participant questions** 
- How would you want to normally navigate to this page?
- Did you have any questions about the information listed?
- On a scale of 1-5 (1 being very poorly and 5 being very well) - how prepared does this page make you feel about the form you are about to begin? - Why did you give it that rating?
- Do you have any suggestions or feedback for making the page and update process better?



### Things to watch for:

- [Quotes from participants about any content on the static page that makes them feel uneasy, confused, or not prepared to complete the application.]
- [Comments about the terms used on the static page.]


## Third Task: [Intro page] - 5 minutes

- Could you please sign into your VA.gov account the typical way you would do so?
- [Share link to (https://VA.gov/my-health/update-benefits-information-form-10-10ezr) in Zoom chat]
- You arrived at this page. Please take a few minutes to review this page and explain what the content on this page means to you and then what you would do next.


 

**Participant questions** 
- Please summarize the most important information you found on the page to prepare for the form.
- On a scale of 1-5 (1 being very poorly and 5 being very well) - how prepared does this page make you feel about the form you are about to begin? - Why did you give it that rating?
- Do you have any suggestions or feedback for making the page and update process better?

### Things to watch for:

- [Quotes from participants about any content on the intro page that makes them feel uneasy, confused or not prepared to complete the application.]
- [Comments about time and/or actions to gather information mentioned on intro page.]
- [Does the navigational placement of the new form make sense to the Veteran?]

## Fourth Task: [The Form] - 10 minutes

- For this next task, we are going to have you go through the form as if you were prompted to update your information. This is a special beta version of the form, accessible via the email you provided before its official release. Please be careful not to submit unless you intend to update your health benefits information for real.
- As you go through the form, could you please talk aloud about what you would need to do as you go.


> Step 1 of 4 Veteran information
> My name, last 4 numbers of my social security, whether I am male or female.
> That is a good service, it helps. (prefilled)
> It saves time when filling out forms if they can pre load this stuff.

> Ok, mailing address. I do not live outside the United States.
> It is already prefilled with my street address, my town, my state, my zip code.
> Click yes if your home is the same as mailing address, that is correct.
> Should I continue?
(form drops at bottom, thows participant)
> Phone and email address. I do not have a smart phone or mobile phone so that is blank and that is correct.

> Household financial information
> Married, thats correct
> Continue
> Spouse information, oh that is not filled in
> Do you wish me to fill it in now?
> (completes spouse information)
> Social secuity (prompted to make one up) Good, I don't have her number handy
> It would take me a moment if I was actually filling out the form. I would want to make sure that is the correct number.
> Spouse date of birth, I think I know that...
> I am not absolutley sure that is correct, I might be off by a day or two. It doesn't have to be exact at this moment does it?
> Alright, date of marriage. November...
> The form has been saved and it has a form ID number assigned to it, so I will continue.
> (reads questions out loud - live with questions)
> Do you have any dependents to report? Who we consider... No. Continue.
> Annual income, gross income...I will make an estimate of that.
> (completes fields easily, how long question asked by moderator) Maybe 15 mintues
> (quite pause at start of spouses income page)
> (used additional info for other income section)
> (goes on to deductible page, participant concentrating reading through content)
> Hmm (medical expenses add info open)
> Yeah, that is not very... she has good medical insurance and I get all my medical through the VA. It is not a very high figure.
> I have to pay for dental because I am not 100%
> I will just give it a guess


Insurance information
> Now to be eligible for Medicaid, am I eligible for that now?
> They filled in no already, I will just leave it there.
> (how would verify) oh.. I have the basic medicare I guess that is what is called, I do not have part B.
> I would have to get in touch with the medicare people and that could take a while. 
> there we go, this is already prefilled also. Peple over 65, yes I am enrolled in Medicare Part A
> Part A effective date, errr. I assume that would be right after I turned 65.
> They already filled in November 2008... yeah, that would be about 65
> Okay, step 3 of 4
> No, I do not have other health insurance.


Review Page

> No, I couldn't make it any better than it is.
>
> 


**Participant questions** 
- What are your expectations regarding the prefilling feature?

### Things to watch for:

- [Does the participant notice the pre-fill alerts?]
- [Does the participant notice that the pre-filled information can be edited? ]
- [Does the participant notice that the household financial information is not pre-filled? ]
- [Is there any struggle with the household and insurance's multiple-responses pattern?] 

## Post-Task Interview - 2 minutes

- Is there anything else you would like to add about what we talked about today?
  > No, I am very grateful for the VA. I don't  mind going through these forms when they need them
  > I grew up with very little income, in a job that didn't pay alot, after I retired I had some retirement income. I got back in touch with the VA and told them I wanted them to take care of me.
  > They did, gave me a VA identification card, I have gone to the VA for all my medical needs that they will allow me to do. They have taken very good care of me.
> They said yes you qualify for eduction benefits, enrolled as a night student, 6 years part time at night and got a 4 year degree and the VA paid for about 2.3 of my eductiion.
> Then when I wanted to get a home, they got me a good rate and no down payment.
> They have saved me in my adult life, glad I was in the service, didn't really want to be, but glad I was for the benefits received. 

- Any questions for me? 
> well, not really.
> I always liek to show off my book.
> I wrote it after I got old and retired, it sold over 1000 copies.
> It tooks some work.
> We were a little different, we were Army reservists. I say we, activated us in 1969 to send us out to war.
> Some friends and I decided we needed to record it, now we have a permanent record of what happened to us in the war.

## Consent to use video clips

- I want to circle back and re-confirm that **you are comfortable if we were to share a video clip of this session with our VA partners?** Just to remind you, we will remove all information that could be used to identify you before sharing and will only share the videos with VA partners with the purpose of improving VA.gov and other digital experiences.
   - If yes: Is there any part of our discussion you would NOT want shared in a video clip?
