# 10-10EZR MVP UAT Conversation Guide 

## P3 

----------



## Intro - 5 minutes

*Start recording.*

- **I have started recording.** I'd like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record my screen and the audio as we talk today?
- Sure

- **Are you comfortable if we decide to use a recorded clip from our discussion today to share with other VA partners if we remove any information that can be used to identify you?**
- Yes

## Warm-up Questions - 3 minutes

Let’s start with a few warm-up questions.

1. Do you have a service-connected disability at VA?
   > Yes
- If yes: what is your disability rating?
  > 60%
- If no, skip to question 2.
2. When was the last time you visited a VA medical facility?
  > Yesterday

## First Task: [Notifications and Awareness] - 5 minutes

- Can you share any past experiences regarding updates to your health benefits information?
  > As far as me updating the health benefit information?
  > No, I think the updates are done by my provider
  > The last thing I updated was not really benefits, it was direct deposit.
  > I don't think so.. when I moved I called and did all that over the phone.
  > It was pretty straightforward. Gave them my address, they informed me their were multiple clinics I could be seen at based off my address.
  
- Imagine you've been notified to update your financial information in order to maintain your co-pay and health care benefits. How might you go about doing that?
> Okay, to be honest. I am used to using the eBenefits. I would sign in there first, it eventually takes me to the VA.gov then I search around for whatever I need.
> The last thing was direct deposit, went to eBenefits then ended up on VA.gov to update my information.
> I am old school. That is how I learned it and that is what I fall back to.

- Describe your preferred method of notification to update your health care information.
  > Either by email or text
- How would you expect to update your information online? What specific steps would you take?
> Yeah, sign on to eBenefit. Sign on there first, eventually end up at VA.gov
> Learning now, maybe I should just start with the VA.gov site.

### Things to watch for:

- [What's the participant's mental model around updating their health care information?]
- [If they have updated their health care benefits information before, was it in person, by phone, or by mail?]


## Second Task: [Wayfinding - Static Page] - 5 minutes

- **You'll be interacting with a beta version of the website today.** This tool has not been released and it may not function exactly the way you expect. Since it is linked to the VA system, it will show you your real information. Towards the end, I will remind you not to submit anything.
- For this next scenario, imagine you just started a new job and your health insurance has changed because of it. Now, you've realized that you need to update your insurance details for your VA health care benefit. To do that, you decided to search on Google to find out how and where you can update your information. Google takes you to this page on VA.gov you're about to see. For this scenario, are you comfortable with sharing your screen and talking through your thought process?
- Please be sure to close any personal information, like email, Facebook, etc., before you share your screen.
- [Share link to (https://staging.va.gov/health-care/update-health-information-1/) in Zoom chat]
- You arrived at this page. Please take a few minutes to review this page and explain what the content on this page means to you and then what you would do next.
> you know we have all kinds of tabs open...
> Um, yeah. I would scroll over here and look to the left to see if something is labeled, like update address or something.
> Then I would go to sign in right here.
> I might look up here, but normally I would just go up here (blue button in header) and sign in
> When you say review, you want me to click on it?
> (reading content aloud)
> Guess the directions, huh. (continues reading page aloud)
> See I am bad, I would not be taking the time to scroll all the way through this stuff.
> Once I saw what I needed, i would be

**Participant questions** 
- How would you want to normally navigate to this page?
- Did you have any questions about the information listed?
  > It tells you what you can and can't update and gives you the different options
- On a scale of 1-5 (1 being very poorly and 5 being very well) - how prepared does this page make you feel about the form you are about to begin? - Why did you give it that rating?
> I would say a 5, it is pretty straight forward it seems like. 
- Do you have any suggestions or feedback for making the page and update process better?
  > I guess the only thing I would suggest, if people would keep scrolling down, it is a lot. If you are like me.
  > Or maybe, this type of question, once you are signed in you can include it on the form on that part (insurance section)
  > I wouldn't need this until I am ready to complete - when doing the questions itself.
  > Taking stuff like that out, these type of questions should be included on the form page.

### Things to watch for:

- [Quotes from participants about any content on the static page that makes them feel uneasy, confused, or not prepared to complete the application.]
- [Comments about the terms used on the static page.]


## Third Task: [Intro page] - 5 minutes

- Could you please sign into your VA.gov account the typical way you would do so?
- [Share link to (https://VA.gov/my-health/update-benefits-information-form-10-10ezr) in Zoom chat]
- You arrived at this page. Please take a few minutes to review this page and explain what the content on this page means to you and then what you would do next.

> you want me to sign into my account? My VA account?
> Oh lord...
> (stops screen sharing)
> So basically I just googled eBenefits. Might take a minute, need to do all this sign in stuff. Which one to sign in with, was it ID.md
> I don't like that abou the VA, you have the different sign in options. I don't freaking know. Just want one option to sign in.
> I can't remember if I created ID me or the other one, there is an error on that one.
> Oh man, it came up with an error so hold on
> Now I got to go find my password...of course it is not liking my password. This is what happens.. I need to figure out ...
> ok, skip all these things...
> Now it's not working, I log in and now it brought me up to my profile, not where you want me to be I think
> now I got to sign in, let's see.. try the DS login...
> Hold on, I got to send me a code
> Now I can share my screen.. this is real time right here. This is how it works.

---
(directed to click on link in chat again)
> it is taking me to the same page, do I need to log out? (on page)
> This is the same page we were just on...

> Ok, update my health information.
> What to know before I fill this out, you and your spouse...
> (reading page aloud/skimming)
> Yeah to prepare for the form, it tells you what you need to know before filling it out.
> But when I read these two statements do I need to go and get my tax information? Do I need to go and get that stuff?
> No one has that sitting around.
> I would probably logout, and eventually get it and continue. I would not start if I had to go get it then logout.
> This is where I think you could include that here - why we asking for insurance.
> Start you benefits form
> 24 minutes
> I would say something like how long would it take to complete this form. The respondenet burdent does not make sense
> That is just kind of yeah.. 


**Participant questions** 
- Please summarize the most important information you found on the page to prepare for the form.
- On a scale of 1-5 (1 being very poorly and 5 being very well) - how prepared does this page make you feel about the form you are about to begin? - Why did you give it that rating?
> I would say a 3 just because I have to go and get this information. 
- Do you have any suggestions or feedback for making the page and update process better?
> I like that the start is further down, if it was at top I would just click it without reading the rest of it.
> If they don't scroll down, might force them to scroll down.



### Things to watch for:

- [Quotes from participants about any content on the intro page that makes them feel uneasy, confused or not prepared to complete the application.]
- [Comments about time and/or actions to gather information mentioned on intro page.]
- [Does the navigational placement of the new form make sense to the Veteran?]

## Fourth Task: [The Form] - 10 minutes

- For this next task, we are going to have you go through the form as if you were prompted to update your information. This is a special beta version of the form, accessible via the email you provided before its official release. Please be careful not to submit unless you intend to update your health benefits information for real.
- As you go through the form, could you please talk aloud about what you would need to do as you go.

> Ok, Veteran information
> I am just verifing my social, date of birth, gender
> If you need to update, call this hotline. Huh?
> So if I need to update any of this stuff I need to call a diferent number?
> Didn't it say on the previous page you can update your personal information? No, okay...
> Address is right, city
> It is good that it is pre-populated
> It is good that I don't have to type it in, it is pulling from my information. Saves time vs me having to type it in.
> Phone and email addresss.. yep, yep. Mmm k

Household information 
> Prefill some of the information, okay
(shows status as Divorced)
> I guess when I see financial information I don't think about marital status, but okay.
> I would think that is income, how much you are bringing in. Maybe you will get to that, this is just the first question.
> Okay, so it says do you have any dependents to report? Who we consider, what... that is basically saying who the VA considers a dependnet
> That is kind of (awkward) yeah
> I don't know if the placing is off, trying to pre-answer the question. I just don't know if it is the placing of this right here, but yeah. It threw me off, I get it, but yeah.
> Let me make sure (opens add info component and reads through content)
> Okay, (answers yes)
> Oh, good it auto saves (calls out green alert at bottom of page)
> (reads dependent alert out loud)
> (completes section, makes up SSN, gets error and re-enters)
> When did they become your dependent? okay
> (reads questions and answered yes to first two, no to income)
> (still selecting YES automatically)
> (Clicks on cancel and gets modal - surprised) Oh, okay
> It is confusing, because I only have one dependent.
> Yeah, I would go back, and then this button right here says cancel. Well, you shouldn't have to do that.
> Well this button right here, says Cancel adding this dependent, so I guess if you don't have any more dependents hit that button.
> (hesitate at modal)
> Yeah, I just want to make sure that I added the first one.
> I guess... clicks Cancel adding
> That is .. mmm. yeah.. that threw me off.
> Oh, I answer the wrong question (noticed the question to add another)
> See... I don't read. I just go down and hit continue.
> So if you click yes, then it will take you to another screen. So you just keep adding if you have more dependents.
> What we consider gross income (clicks on add info component)
> Well I would probably guess as close as accuratley as I could.
> I have a question, for wages, is that working wages for a job or retirement pay?
> If I was filling it out, i would guess vs going to find my taxes and stuff.
> Oh, so okay. So there's the answer. Okay (about retirement income in other income add info component)
> Maybe its just ... hmm.. maybe say wages not including retirement, I don't know.
> Deductibe expenses... I am glad now I understand why this question is here, so it is helpful.
> I am just going to put 0...(for real) yeah, I would have to think. Did I go how many times to the doctor.. I don't know.
> It tells you on the previous screen to have it, but the majority of people aren't going to have that stuff.
> I would probably guess a number to be honest, if we are already in the midst, not going to go (leave to look for docs)
> Hmm. that is good say not your dependents. that good.
> yeah, people would probably have to go and get that stuff.
>
> Insurance information..
> (selects no to question) Oh that was a different question
> Health insurance, (reading content - opening add info.)
> Okay, so you do have that question in here, about the second health insurance.
> (answers yes to health insurance)
> (Enters TriCare)
> (clicks on add info component for tricare)
> That's good there, I don't know that policy number
> (changes auto select from yes to no)

Review page
> (opens accordions)
> Just reviewing my informaiton...
> Normally I don't read these policies (privacy policy) but I will click it just in case.
> Normally I just scroll down....


**Participant questions** 
- What are your expectations regarding the prefilling feature?

### Things to watch for:

- [Does the participant notice the pre-fill alerts?]
- [Does the participant notice that the pre-filled information can be edited? ]
- [Does the participant notice that the household financial information is not pre-filled? ]
- [Is there any struggle with the household and insurance's multiple-responses pattern?] 

## Post-Task Interview - 2 minutes

- Is there anything else you would like to add about what we talked about today?
> No (overall feedback)
> Pretty straight forward if you slow down and take your time
> The dependent thing, slow down and read it. 
- Any questions for me? 
> no, I think we are pretty good. 
## Consent to use video clips

- I want to circle back and re-confirm that **you are comfortable if we were to share a video clip of this session with our VA partners?** Just to remind you, we will remove all information that could be used to identify you before sharing and will only share the videos with VA partners with the purpose of improving VA.gov and other digital experiences.
   - If yes: Is there any part of our discussion you would NOT want shared in a video clip?
