# 10-10EZR MVP UAT Conversation Guide 

## P4 

----------



## Intro - 5 minutes

*Start recording.*

- **I have started recording.** I'd like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record my screen and the audio as we talk today?
> I am comfortable with that, yes.
- **Are you comfortable if we decide to use a recorded clip from our discussion today to share with other VA partners if we remove any information that can be used to identify you?**
> I agree with that completely.

## Warm-up Questions - 3 minutes

Let’s start with a few warm-up questions.

1. Do you have a service-connected disability at VA?
> I do.      
- If yes: what is your disability rating?
> 100% PNT
- If no, skip to question 2.
2. When was the last time you visited a VA medical facility?
> July and August.

## First Task: [Notifications and Awareness] - 5 minutes

- Can you share any past experiences regarding updates to your health benefits information?
> Actually an IT guy and mutter his way there.
> Started claim in 2015, all claims online in eBenefits. 
> Most of the time, it was not difficult for him. But could see people without IT background struggling.

- Imagine you've been notified to update your financial information in order to maintain your co-pay and health care benefits. How might you go about doing that?
> I believe this function is on VA.gov.
> Sign into ID.me through VA.gov. Then use the left navigation menu.
- Describe your preferred method of notification to update your health care information.
> I'm 64.
> Prefer email, bigger screen with keyboard.
- How would you expect to update your information online? What specific steps would you take?
> 

### Things to watch for:

- [What's the participant's mental model around updating their health care information?]
- [If they have updated their health care benefits information before, was it in person, by phone, or by mail?]


## Second Task: [Wayfinding - Static Page] - 5 minutes

- **You'll be interacting with a beta version of the website today.** This tool has not been released and it may not function exactly the way you expect. Since it is linked to the VA system, it will show you your real information. Towards the end, I will remind you not to submit anything.
- For this next scenario, imagine you just started a new job and your health insurance has changed because of it. Now, you've realized that you need to update your insurance details for your VA health care benefit. To do that, you decided to search on Google to find out how and where you can update your information. Google takes you to this page on VA.gov you're about to see. For this scenario, are you comfortable with sharing your screen and talking through your thought process?
- Please be sure to close any personal information, like email, Facebook, etc., before you share your screen.
- [Share link to (https://staging.va.gov/health-care/update-health-information-1/) in Zoom chat]
- You arrived at this page. Please take a few minutes to review this page and explain what the content on this page means to you and then what you would do next.

**Participant questions** 
- How would you want to normally navigate to this page?
> Very self-explanatory.
> In 2016, he went to a facility to update his insurance information after getting different work.
> Wonder if the dependent portion will work, struggled with SSI for dependent, special-need daughter. It was messy, they deducted more money so he had to try to remove his daughter as a dependent from Social Security but it was a struggle. He had to send in a letter.
> In theory, he thinks he can update his dependent information.
- Did you have any questions about the information listed?
> Knows the answer to the "other insurance" because he talks to other people in his Veteran group.
> He is turning 65 age and the VA consider Medicare credible coverage.
> Found that if he calls on a Tuesday or Wednesday afternoon, it will be very helpful. Had to send in documents in the mail. 
- On a scale of 1-5 (1 being very poorly and 5 being very well) - how prepared does this page make you feel about the form you are about to begin? - Why did you give it that rating?
> Very well prepared, rating of 5.
> Information is very concise. It is a great page.
- Do you have any suggestions or feedback for making the page and update process better?

### Things to watch for:

- [Quotes from participants about any content on the static page that makes them feel uneasy, confused, or not prepared to complete the application.]
- [Comments about the terms used on the static page.]


## Third Task: [Intro page] - 5 minutes

- Could you please sign into your VA.gov account the typical way you would do so?
> ID.me, already has the website login information saved.
> The EZR link keeps redirecting him to VA.gov
- [Share link to (https://VA.gov/my-health/update-benefits-information-form-10-10ezr) in Zoom chat]
- You arrived at this page. Please take a few minutes to review this page and explain what the content on this page means to you and then what you would do next.

**Participant questions** 
- Please summarize the most important information you found on the page to prepare for the form.
- On a scale of 1-5 (1 being very poorly and 5 being very well) - how prepared does this page make you feel about the form you are about to begin? - Why did you give it that rating?
- Do you have any suggestions or feedback for making the page and update process better?

### Things to watch for:

- [Quotes from participants about any content on the intro page that makes them feel uneasy, confused or not prepared to complete the application.]
- [Comments about time and/or actions to gather information mentioned on intro page.]
- [Does the navigational placement of the new form make sense to the Veteran?]

## Fourth Task: [The Form] - 10 minutes

- For this next task, we are going to have you go through the form as if you were prompted to update your information. This is a special beta version of the form, accessible via the email you provided before its official release. Please be careful not to submit unless you intend to update your health benefits information for real.
- As you go through the form, could you please talk aloud about what you would need to do as you go.

> Make sense, would easily continue.
>
> Likes prefilling, save him from filling. Know if he moves, it will have to update things.
>
> Does not have a landline phone number, he would fill in his mobile phone. 
>
> Liked that the form is saved after he fills in.
>
> Likes that he does not have to mail in the spouse's information.
>
> Likes the "finish this form later" option. That is not always an option.
>
> Nice to have the additional info for the Dependent. 
>
> Most of his kids are from their first marriage so they "become your dependent" on a date that is not their birthday.
>
> 2nd daughter has income so he expects questions regarding income. Did his daughter's taxes or ask them through text for the number.
>
> He noticed there is no auto-save within the dependent section. So he assumed it would not save.
>
> Would you expect to come to this form later? Claim and process, usually. More familiar with eBenefits.  
>
> Does not recall VA asking for income before.
>
> Does not have insurance, only use the VA's.

**Participant questions** 
- What are your expectations regarding the prefilling feature?

### Things to watch for:

- [Does the participant notice the pre-fill alerts?]
- [Does the participant notice that the pre-filled information can be edited? ]
- [Does the participant notice that the household financial information is not pre-filled? ]
- [Is there any struggle with the household and insurance's multiple-responses pattern?] 

## Post-Task Interview - 2 minutes

- Is there anything else you would like to add about what we talked about today?
> Likes that all those options were online.
> Didn't see anything that asked to submit a marriage certificate (expected an attachment document). If there is no attachment, he expects mail asking for marriage and birth certificate. 
- Any questions for me? 

## Consent to use video clips

- I want to circle back and re-confirm that **you are comfortable if we were to share a video clip of this session with our VA partners?** Just to remind you, we will remove all information that could be used to identify you before sharing and will only share the videos with VA partners with the purpose of improving VA.gov and other digital experiences.
   - If yes: Is there any part of our discussion you would NOT want shared in a video clip?
