# 10-10EZR MVP UAT Conversation Guide 

## P5

----------

Yes 

## Intro - 5 minutes

*Start recording.*

- **I have started recording.** I'd like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record my screen and the audio as we talk today?
> Yes, that's fine
- **Are you comfortable if we decide to use a recorded clip from our discussion today to share with other VA partners if we remove any information that can be used to identify you?**
> yep, that's fine

## Warm-up Questions - 3 minutes

Let’s start with a few warm-up questions.

1. Do you have a service-connected disability at VA?
- If yes: what is your disability rating?
- If no, skip to question
  > yes
  > 100
2. When was the last time you visited a VA medical facility?
  > Uhh.. definutley last month. 

## First Task: [Notifications and Awareness] - 5 minutes

- Can you share any past experiences regarding updates to your health benefits information?
  > As far as going on the webpage and doing it?
  > The last time I did it was about 2 years ago when I first moved here and it was pretty smooth
  > I want to say I went online, I can't think of it off the top of my head, but I did it online, when we moved.
- Imagine you've been notified to update your financial information in order to maintain your co-pay and health care benefits. How might you go about doing that?
> I would start by going to VA.gov, um, I feel like there is a Profile I would go to then did down from there
> 
- Describe your preferred method of notification to update your health care information.
  > text message, I am kind of retired so I don't check email all the time
- How would you expect to update your information online? What specific steps would you take?
  > That is where I would think to look for it - I guess it depends if you are looking for benefits or health
  

### Things to watch for:

- [What's the participant's mental model around updating their health care information?]
- [If they have updated their health care benefits information before, was it in person, by phone, or by mail?]


## Second Task: [Wayfinding - Static Page] - 5 minutes

- **You'll be interacting with a beta version of the website today.** This tool has not been released and it may not function exactly the way you expect. Since it is linked to the VA system, it will show you your real information. Towards the end, I will remind you not to submit anything.
- For this next scenario, imagine you just started a new job and your health insurance has changed because of it. Now, you've realized that you need to update your insurance details for your VA health care benefit. To do that, you decided to search on Google to find out how and where you can update your information. Google takes you to this page on VA.gov you're about to see. For this scenario, are you comfortable with sharing your screen and talking through your thought process?
- Please be sure to close any personal information, like email, Facebook, etc., before you share your screen.
- [Share link to (https://staging.va.gov/health-care/update-health-information-1/) in Zoom chat]
- You arrived at this page. Please take a few minutes to review this page and explain what the content on this page means to you and then what you would do next.

> Honestly I don't think I have ever really looked at this page, I just go right to sign in
> (clicks on sign in button and starts that)
> (wouldn't read, jump right in) yes
> If I login it is mostly to look at test results and upcoming appointments and stuff like that
> Nope, it tells you everything, what you can update. It all seems pretty straighforward.
> (not how you normally would) no this is not typically how I would get to it


**Participant questions** 
- How would you want to normally navigate to this page?
- Did you have any questions about the information listed?
- On a scale of 1-5 (1 being very poorly and 5 being very well) - how prepared does this page make you feel about the form you are about to begin? - Why did you give it that rating?
> 5
> It has all the information, esp somebody who doesn't use technology enough, might benefit from

- Do you have any suggestions or feedback for making the page and update process better?
> I can't think of any, it is laid out pretty well


### Things to watch for:

- [Quotes from participants about any content on the static page that makes them feel uneasy, confused, or not prepared to complete the application.]
- [Comments about the terms used on the static page.]


## Third Task: [Intro page] - 5 minutes

- Could you please sign into your VA.gov account the typical way you would do so?
- [Share link to (https://VA.gov/my-health/update-benefits-information-form-10-10ezr) in Zoom chat]
- You arrived at this page. Please take a few minutes to review this page and explain what the content on this page means to you and then what you would do next.
> (logs on with ID.md, easily and knows creds)
> (can't open EZR intro page - gets looped into a cycle of password resets on ID.md trying new windows/logins)
> (pivots to backup of - participant was able to login and asks to screen share again, same issue)
> (moderator will share screen via staging, user 228)
> I would click start a new form
> Um... basically you just need to know, just need to have (pause) okay,
> what would the deducible expenses be?\
> (pause) Yes, only because I am a military brat, I have been on VA health care, TriCare and benefits.
> Never experience public healthcare, (...)
> 


**Participant questions** 
- Please summarize the most important information you found on the page to prepare for the form.
- On a scale of 1-5 (1 being very poorly and 5 being very well) - how prepared does this page make you feel about the form you are about to begin? - Why did you give it that rating?
> A 5
- Do you have any suggestions or feedback for making the page and update process better?
> Um, only if there was like acutal like documents you might need, like W2, might make it a little easier
> Or even if you just had a W2 it would make it easier to fill out the form

### Things to watch for:

- [Quotes from participants about any content on the intro page that makes them feel uneasy, confused or not prepared to complete the application.]
- [Comments about time and/or actions to gather information mentioned on intro page.]
- [Does the navigational placement of the new form make sense to the Veteran?]

## Fourth Task: [The Form] - 10 minutes

- For this next task, we are going to have you go through the form as if you were prompted to update your information. This is a special beta version of the form, accessible via the email you provided before its official release. Please be careful not to submit unless you intend to update your health benefits information for real.
- As you go through the form, could you please talk aloud about what you would need to do as you go.

> An email, that is super helpful
> I would just hit continue 
> and Married
> Oh, I was just going to say, if I had any questions you guys had a link, I would click that
> I would imagine if you guys already have this, it should be prefilled (spouse info)
> I would just fill it out,  (moderator generic inputs)
> And then yes and yes (spouse add info)
> Yes (has dependents)
> If I wasn't sure, you guys have the drop down that I would click, yeah that's perfect.
> And then I would just fill that in if it wasn't already prefilled
> Oh... so, if I have a question.
> My son was adopted. So his date of birth would be whatever, so TriCare would cover him when he was born, but he didn't become my dependnet until 4 months later.
> Wants clarification - on adoptive children for the 2 dates
> If that what you guys are asking for if it is an adoption type issue.
> No, no and then continue
> And then no (additional dependents) and then continue
> Okay... so I would look at my W2 or tax return I guess
> It would take 5 minutes or so, look through my file cabinet
> It should be right there behind me (points in office)
> Yeah, that is pretty straightforward. Feel like that would also be on your tax return.
> Can you click the drop down (other income)
> That is pretty straight forward.. and then continue
> Um, let's see. That is straight forward and should be with the same tax paper work so that is easy
> (deductible expenses page)
> That is easy, and vocational expensens.
> I feel like you guys haven't asked this before - never filled this in before.
> If I did it was 2012 when I first signed up
> Not expecting this portion at all
> Yes, continue

Insurnace section
> no, continue
> No, continue
> (doesn't really pause on Medicare/Medicaid questions)
> I would say yes (private insurnace question)
> So that would be TriCare, and then put my Spouse's name
> I think the policy number would be the EDI whatever that number is, that is not Social anymore
> EDIP, EDIP the DOD benefits number
> Oh, there you go, I would just click that drop down
> And then next, do you have more, no
> Okay, so I guess I would just click each one of those to verify the information is accurate
> Scroll down, that's good
> And that one just to check, okay
> Submitting... (quietly reads) okay, that's all straigtforward
> Then I check the box and hit submit 

Confirmation Page
> ok, pretty awesome name
> That is all pretty straigtforwad and gives you a timeframe of when to expect a correspondence
> Would not print, probably most military people probably would.
> They have had so many records lost while they were in the military.

**Participant questions** 
- What are your expectations regarding the prefilling feature?

### Things to watch for:

- [Does the participant notice the pre-fill alerts?]
- [Does the participant notice that the pre-filled information can be edited? ]
- [Does the participant notice that the household financial information is not pre-filled? ]
- [Is there any struggle with the household and insurance's multiple-responses pattern?] 

## Post-Task Interview - 2 minutes

- Is there anything else you would like to add about what we talked about today?
> no, that is pretty straight forward
- Any questions for me? 
> I don't think so, appreciate you guys doing the different studies and trying to make it easier.
> Especially for some of the older folks I work with.


## Consent to use video clips

- I want to circle back and re-confirm that **you are comfortable if we were to share a video clip of this session with our VA partners?** Just to remind you, we will remove all information that could be used to identify you before sharing and will only share the videos with VA partners with the purpose of improving VA.gov and other digital experiences.
   - If yes: Is there any part of our discussion you would NOT want shared in a video clip?
     > yep that's fine
