# 10-10EZR MVP UAT Conversation Guide 

## P8 

----------



## Intro - 5 minutes

*Start recording.*

- **I have started recording.** I'd like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record my screen and the audio as we talk today?
> Yes.
- **Are you comfortable if we decide to use a recorded clip from our discussion today to share with other VA partners if we remove any information that can be used to identify you?**
> Yes.

## Warm-up Questions - 3 minutes

Let’s start with a few warm-up questions.

1. Do you have a service-connected disability at VA?
> Yes. 100%.
- If yes: what is your disability rating?
- If no, skip to question 2.
2. When was the last time you visited a VA medical facility?
> October 31st.

## First Task: [Notifications and Awareness] - 5 minutes

- Can you share any past experiences regarding updates to your health benefits information?
> I was at the VA hospital trying to get a VA ID card. I discovered they had my address wrong, my contact information was tied to another Veteran. So that's where I did that, in the Veteran's hopsital while trying to get the ID card.
- Imagine you've been notified to update your financial information in order to maintain your co-pay and health care benefits. How might you go about doing that?
> I just recently changed my direct deposit through VA. I went on the VA benefits website. There's a section there where you can check your payment history. I did that last month, in October. I went to the website (VA.gov) and changed the banking information online.
- Describe your preferred method of notification to update your health care information.
> Probably text or email.
- How would you expect to update your information online? What specific steps would you take?
> Logging in, hopefully when they text me or email they put a link in there. I would say take me directly to it, but because I know we have to login. But hopefully when they email me they tell me exactly where to go once I'm finally logged in. Maybe there wouldn't be a direct link but at least there would be instructions.

### Things to watch for:

- [What's the participant's mental model around updating their health care information?]
- [If they have updated their health care benefits information before, was it in person, by phone, or by mail?]


## Second Task: [Wayfinding - Static Page] - 5 minutes

- **You'll be interacting with a beta version of the website today.** This tool has not been released and it may not function exactly the way you expect. Since it is linked to the VA system, it will show you your real information. Towards the end, I will remind you not to submit anything.
- For this next scenario, imagine you just started a new job and your health insurance has changed because of it. Now, you've realized that you need to update your insurance details for your VA health care benefit. To do that, you decided to search on Google to find out how and where you can update your information. Google takes you to this page on VA.gov you're about to see. For this scenario, are you comfortable with sharing your screen and talking through your thought process?
- Please be sure to close any personal information, like email, Facebook, etc., before you share your screen.
- [Share link to (https://staging.va.gov/health-care/update-health-information-1/) in Zoom chat]
- You arrived at this page. Please take a few minutes to review this page and explain what the content on this page means to you and then what you would do next.
> I might call the Health Eligibility center if I think it'd be quicker. It depends on what time it is. Since it's 11:16 (AM) right now, I would go online.

**Participant questions** 
- How would you want to normally navigate to this page?
- Did you have any questions about the information listed?
> I don't have any questions. Really, it's just telling me that everything I needed to update is available to be updated from this page once I get started. If there are any changes in my life, I can come straight here. And if it's anything applicable I can go through this site. The "will my benefits change?" is interesting. I hadn't thought about that. That's new to me, because I'm 100%.
- On a scale of 1-5 (1 being very poorly and 5 being very well) - how prepared does this page make you feel about the form you are about to begin? - Why did you give it that rating?
> Let me go back and read. Now you're saying I'm just updating my health insurance information. Right now, I'll say a 5. We'll see, but right now I feel fully prepared.
- Do you have any suggestions or feedback for making the page and update process better?
> No, I don't.

### Things to watch for:

- [Quotes from participants about any content on the static page that makes them feel uneasy, confused, or not prepared to complete the application.]
- [Comments about the terms used on the static page.]


## Third Task: [Intro page] - 5 minutes

- Could you please sign into your VA.gov account the typical way you would do so?
- [Share link to (https://VA.gov/my-health/update-benefits-information-form-10-10ezr) in Zoom chat]
- You arrived at this page. Please take a few minutes to review this page and explain what the content on this page means to you and then what you would do next.

**Participant questions** 
- Please summarize the most important information you found on the page to prepare for the form.
> So I'm looking to update my personal, financial, and insurance information, since I'm already enrolled in VA healthcare...oh, income from 2022? Okay. I don't really understand when they say "my spouse's deductible expenses." Hopefully they'll tell me what that means. It'll tell me what I need to do, it's talking about the copay stuff again. They're prefilling part of hte information based on my bank account information. So I don't have to do the form all in one sitting, it says I can save my progress and come back and fill it out. I can start my health benefits form by clicking the green button.
- On a scale of 1-5 (1 being very poorly and 5 being very well) - how prepared does this page make you feel about the form you are about to begin? - Why did you give it that rating?
> 5. Because all the information, if I'm doing insurance information, all the prerequisites that I need to do are on this page. Once I've gathered my information I should be able to just click on it and input my information. I would probably have all that information already, so I would click on the next thing.
- Do you have any suggestions or feedback for making the page and update process better?

### Things to watch for:

- [Quotes from participants about any content on the intro page that makes them feel uneasy, confused or not prepared to complete the application.]
- [Comments about time and/or actions to gather information mentioned on intro page.]
- [Does the navigational placement of the new form make sense to the Veteran?]

## Fourth Task: [The Form] - 10 minutes

- For this next task, we are going to have you go through the form as if you were prompted to update your information. This is a special beta version of the form, accessible via the email you provided before its official release. Please be careful not to submit unless you intend to update your health benefits information for real.
- As you go through the form, could you please talk aloud about what you would need to do as you go.
> I didn't realize phone number is optional. Because it says it's optional up there. But one thing missing is my mobile phone number. I would put in my mobile phone number in and hit continue.
> 
> I see on the bottom it says "your form has been saved" with the date and time. I would fill this out and hit continue.
> 
> Hold on, I gotta go back and do his...I was just making up numbers, but. This is interesting. I don't know why they care about when we got married, but they do. So. Just curious why they need it, because number 1, I thought they had it already. We've been married 30-some odd years. I'm sure at some point I filled out a form with that information. So why would they need it just to provide an update. Why they didn't have it is curious to me.
> 
> So I guess my spouse is a dependent? Wait, let me read that again. Who do we consider a dependent- a spouse. Okie dokie. [That's surprising to me], I guess for househould financial information they're using that to make some sort of determination. Huh, so now that's interesting. It's asking me for dependent information. Is it asking me to once again put all his information in? Why do I need to do it again? You asked me if I had a spouse, I told you a did. Then you said a spouse is a dependent. Then I have to fill out all this information again on the dependent form. Why would that not just carry over? Instead of making me fill out this same information again for my spouse. If it was for a child, it would make sense.
> 
> I don't know why I need to answer all these additional questions. I came here to tell you about my health insurance, now I'm here answering these spouse questions.
> 
> If I wanted to make adjustments to my income, I would have all that information ready. But I didn't come here for that. Now I got to pull up some tax forms because you're asking about 2022 and it's now November 2023. How do I know this is saved if I don't hit continue? If I don't hit continue, do I have the ability to come back? Does it start me back at the beginning?
> 
> Now I'm confused. Why is it asking me my spouse's income? I'm doing a lot of extra work. I don't like this at all. In that question about dependents, they don't seem to be differentiating between a dependent and a spouse. It's making it seem like my dependent and my spouse aren't a different person. I would have to put this down, I didn't have this ready. I would be upset by now. Because you asked me to update my insurance information, and now I'm filling out all this information. Y'all gave me homework. I would have stop to go find these things you all consider non-reimbursable medical expenses, if I have any, and put this information in. I would have to save this form and go do homework.
> 
> If I was trying to do this on my lunch break or something, I would really be unhappy with this right now. I could understand if it was saying, "hey look over these things and see if everything is correct."

**Participant questions** 
- What are your expectations regarding the prefilling feature?
> I love it.

### Things to watch for:

- [Does the participant notice the pre-fill alerts?]
- [Does the participant notice that the pre-filled information can be edited? ]
- [Does the participant notice that the household financial information is not pre-filled? ]
- [Is there any struggle with the household and insurance's multiple-responses pattern?] 

## Post-Task Interview - 2 minutes

- Is there anything else you would like to add about what we talked about today?
- Any questions for me?
> No.

## Consent to use video clips

- I want to circle back and re-confirm that **you are comfortable if we were to share a video clip of this session with our VA partners?** Just to remind you, we will remove all information that could be used to identify you before sharing and will only share the videos with VA partners with the purpose of improving VA.gov and other digital experiences.
   - If yes: Is there any part of our discussion you would NOT want shared in a video clip?
