# 10-10EZR MVP UAT Conversation Guide 

## P9

----------



## Intro - 5 minutes

> Absolutely

*Start recording.*

- **I have started recording.** I'd like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record my screen and the audio as we talk today?
> Yes, i am okay with you recording this session
- **Are you comfortable if we decide to use a recorded clip from our discussion today to share with other VA partners if we remove any information that can be used to identify you?**
> Yes, that's okay

## Warm-up Questions - 3 minutes

Let’s start with a few warm-up questions.

1. Do you have a service-connected disability at VA?
- If yes: what is your disability rating?
- If no, skip to question 2.
  > Yes I do
  > 10%
2. When was the last time you visited a VA medical facility?
> I actually went to a VA medical facility this year for the first time in ages.
> And I am participating in a VA program about MOVE.
> To help you with weight loss, I think it is a 12 week program.
> Once a week we have a video call and there are about 12 people in our group.


## First Task: [Notifications and Awareness] - 5 minutes

- Can you share any past experiences regarding updates to your health benefits information?
> No, you know, I do have to say I am retired military all my health care is covered under TriCare.
- Imagine you've been notified to update your financial information in order to maintain your co-pay and health care benefits. How might you go about doing that?
- Describe your preferred method of notification to update your health care information.
- How would you expect to update your information online? What specific steps would you take?

> How would i go about doing that? Um... well would I get a letter in the mail or an email I wonder
> They would probably send a letter in the mail.
> I wouldn't know what to do, I would wait until they told me what to do.
> Prove my income, yeah I could prove my income. 
> I would rather do it online, I would rather just submit my last year's income tax information or something like that.
> The same way you do your income tax, or something like that.
> An email kind of works, sometimes it gets lost.
> The VA is pretty good about sending out a letter for important things, the US mail.
> {prefer both} yes
> if they sent email with a link to get started here
> I wouldn't really worry about it or bother with it, unless they gave me specific information about what they wanted me to do, I wouldn't do anything. 


### Things to watch for:

- [What's the participant's mental model around updating their health care information?]
- [If they have updated their health care benefits information before, was it in person, by phone, or by mail?]


## Second Task: [Wayfinding - Static Page] - 5 minutes

- **You'll be interacting with a beta version of the website today.** This tool has not been released and it may not function exactly the way you expect. Since it is linked to the VA system, it will show you your real information. Towards the end, I will remind you not to submit anything.
- For this next scenario, imagine you just started a new job and your health insurance has changed because of it. Now, you've realized that you need to update your insurance details for your VA health care benefit. To do that, you decided to search on Google to find out how and where you can update your information. Google takes you to this page on VA.gov you're about to see. For this scenario, are you comfortable with sharing your screen and talking through your thought process?
- Please be sure to close any personal information, like email, Facebook, etc., before you share your screen.
- [Share link to (https://staging.va.gov/health-care/update-health-information-1/) in Zoom chat]
- You arrived at this page. Please take a few minutes to review this page and explain what the content on this page means to you and then what you would do next.

> Okay... I am just laughing. The VA form 1010EZ... hahaha
> Because that is the IRS form.
> Doesn't it make you laugh?
> If you got married or divorced or something you could change your marital status..
> (quietly reading again)
> Ok, I've read it.
> Well what it is telling me is the VA wants to be billing other insurances to cover the cost of my health care if they are totally taking care of me. And yeah.
> This is also telling me that um... we are used to the VA everything being low, no cost. And um, so, personall being a cheapscate, can I use this form to find out if my health benefits will change.
> Update household information and if you NEED TO PAY for care.
> I rarely use the VA, but I know the VA is a fairly inexpensive way to get your health care.
> If somebody had a job and had to report their earnigns, they might not be able to get free perscriptions.
> That is interesting, just my own opinion.
> I would click on the sign in, or create an account.
> The only reason I would click there is if i actually have an account and could sign in.
> Modern life, most everthing you do on the computer. WOuldn't call, that would be a waste of time.
> I wouldn't click something and have them send me something in the mail when I could just as soon do it online.





**Participant questions** 
- How would you want to normally navigate to this page?

 > I would click on the sign in to update my information -- IF I felt like I wanted to tell the VA.
> (navigate to this page) If I want to play solitair, would just click on a link. But to go to this site, I need to go to VA.gov in google and go and find it, there is not an app provided to this.
> Do a Google search and come to the VA, that is annoying, why can't I just go to the app store and get the app...
> It is not mandatory, this is just eh, if you want to do it.


- Did you have any questions about the information listed?
- On a scale of 1-5 (1 being very poorly and 5 being very well) - how prepared does this page make you feel about the form you are about to begin? - Why did you give it that rating?
> Just gonna go 3 middle of the road - nothing negative or postive. Yeah, middle of the road.

- Do you have any suggestions or feedback for making the page and update process better?
  > Let's see it tells my how to update my VA benefits, but WHY would I want to update?
  > Why? (why would i want to do this)
  


### Things to watch for:

- [Quotes from participants about any content on the static page that makes them feel uneasy, confused, or not prepared to complete the application.]
- [Comments about the terms used on the static page.]


## Third Task: [Intro page] - 5 minutes

- Could you please sign into your VA.gov account the typical way you would do so?
- [Share link to (https://VA.gov/my-health/update-benefits-information-form-10-10ezr) in Zoom chat]
- You arrived at this page. Please take a few minutes to review this page and explain what the content on this page means to you and then what you would do next.

> [logs in with MHV, states other ways have not worked]
> this is overly complicated in my opinion, but...
> I have been frustrted with these pages and I don't always get it.
> It looks like I might today





**Participant questions** 
- Please summarize the most important information you found on the page to prepare for the form.
- On a scale of 1-5 (1 being very poorly and 5 being very well) - how prepared does this page make you feel about the form you are about to begin? - Why did you give it that rating?
- Do you have any suggestions or feedback for making the page and update process better?

> I have kind of quickly looked it over - my first question. Why would I bother filling this information out?
> It is not mandatory
> If there is a change in my circumstances, I change my marital status or something, the reason I would want to go in here is because there was a CHANGE in something...
> Okay next
> I am just going to say... well I am just going to say, I am retired. I am not seeking employement, nothing in my life that is going to change other than marital status. My income is steady.
> If I was in my 40's compared to my 70's that is why I am less likely to fill out this form.
> nothing, it just makes me laugh the VA is using an EZ form like the IRS.

> I am going to preface it with it doesn't say mandatory anywhere on here... and I am just going to stick with a 3.

> there is NO compelling reason to fill it out. What would compel somebody to want to update this.
> Say I was 50 years old and went out and got a job, what compelling reason would I have if the cost of my perscription when up, by having a job.
> Under penalty of law, you are mandatory. YOu must fill out this form, that would encourage me. 


### Things to watch for:

- [Quotes from participants about any content on the intro page that makes them feel uneasy, confused or not prepared to complete the application.]
- [Comments about time and/or actions to gather information mentioned on intro page.]
- [Does the navigational placement of the new form make sense to the Veteran?]

## Fourth Task: [The Form] - 10 minutes

- For this next task, we are going to have you go through the form as if you were prompted to update your information. This is a special beta version of the form, accessible via the email you provided before its official release. Please be careful not to submit unless you intend to update your health benefits information for real.
- As you go through the form, could you please talk aloud about what you would need to do as you go.

> I am going to click on start your health benefits update form, even thoguh there is no penalty of law for not doing this.
>
> First thing I see is step 1 of 4 and that makes me happy there is only 4 and not 15.
> Four is a good number
> Going to see right away my information is correct, click on continue.
> (Prefill expectations) The prefilling that they already know? I am happy, less typing.
> I am now on to my mailing address, which is absolutley correct.
> Becuase hey, number 1 and number 2 have been easy.
> OOH wait a second, I am on step 1 of 4. This is taking me down a rabit hole.
> All the information on here is correct, finally made it to step 2.
> Click click click to step 2.
> Oh, now they want some information?
> (does not prefill marital status)
> That is a problem, would have to do some research on that (Spouse SSN)
> Let me put the dashes in there... 
> Okay, ... (enteres is spouse info)
> Glad they have it when you can type and not the spinning dial. For older people it works better (Memorable date component)
> I like seeing that your information has been saved, that is great.
> I am here, additional information. Sounds more like an IRS form now.
> I will fill it out, it is only 2 clicks.
> (Answers no to dependents)
> I don't know, we will just.... (Enters in some numbers)
> Net income from a FARM? What the hell... wait a second. Oh, gross and net.
> For this I would need to refer to my income tax form for real numbers.
> These numbers are far far off.. realy I would have to refer to um...
> So now I will have to put a zero here for no income.
> (hunt down info) hahaha.. a Half an hour to an hour.
> Oh... and my husband and I keep our finances pretty separate. I don't know how I would be answering this one.
> And net income... so this is your gross, so they didn't ask gross from both... (misread question?)
> I would have to look this up (spouse info and own income)
> Now, what about I have an IRA. I will have to take minimum distributions - was that on there?
> I am looking forward to being 73 1/2 and tapping into my IRA and that would be income.. so maybe that would be on my tax form at the end of the year.
> Now this is interesting, I have already clicked on ahead
- (Deductibles)
> Non reimbursable medical expenses, I have spent a lot of money on that
> I don't track it because you can't do anything about it, so um..
> I am just going to type in kind of a number, about 5,000
> And for educational, that would be a big 0
> And I'll just put a big 0 in for that, I am kind of done with that page.
> It made sense to me, because I think I am going to keep better track of my non-reimbursable medical expenses. Had this year, more than what I would average have.
> I am going to click onto the next page.
> I was imagining it was only 4 clicks, 
> That is correct, I am on medicare. Going to click yes to that.
> OH... I am excited, step 3 of 4 insurance information... and I don't have any other insurance.
> So I can just click no and move on....
> (She mentiones no insurance, but earlier said she was retired and on TriCare)
> (instructed to go through and start a new form, delay on buttons for confirming to start a new form)


**Participant questions** 
- What are your expectations regarding the prefilling feature?

### Things to watch for:

- [Does the participant notice the pre-fill alerts?]
- [Does the participant notice that the pre-filled information can be edited? ]
- [Does the participant notice that the household financial information is not pre-filled? ]
- [Is there any struggle with the household and insurance's multiple-responses pattern?] 

## Post-Task Interview - 2 minutes

- Is there anything else you would like to add about what we talked about today?
> no it is just a little curious, they copied the IRS on the EX forms. That stands out to me.

- Any questions for me?
  > No I am kind of sorry we didn't get to talk about the VA website in general
  > You know, the VA uses a secure email system that I guess some people need that, but for me, just a regular email is good enough for me.
  > Go through all those steps of loggin on to get those messages - I find it annoying.
  > Maybe somebody in other circumstances, that might be the best way they can do it. If they have to go to a library or something, I guess I can understand it. 

## Consent to use video clips

- I want to circle back and re-confirm that **you are comfortable if we were to share a video clip of this session with our VA partners?** Just to remind you, we will remove all information that could be used to identify you before sharing and will only share the videos with VA partners with the purpose of improving VA.gov and other digital experiences.
   - If yes: Is there any part of our discussion you would NOT want shared in a video clip?
> Sure, I'm comfortable 
