# 10-10EZR MVP UAT Conversation Guide 

## P9 

----------



## Intro - 5 minutes

*Start recording.*

- **I have started recording.** I'd like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record my screen and the audio as we talk today?
- **Are you comfortable if we decide to use a recorded clip from our discussion today to share with other VA partners if we remove any information that can be used to identify you?**


## Warm-up Questions - 3 minutes

Let’s start with a few warm-up questions.

1. Do you have a service-connected disability at VA?
> Yes, I do
- If yes: what is your disability rating?
> 10%
- If no, skip to question 2.
2. When was the last time you visited a VA medical facility?
> This year, for the first time in ages. Don't know the day.
> Participant in the VA program called MOVE (Weight Loss)
>
> Uses iPad

## First Task: [Notifications and Awareness] - 5 minutes

- Can you share any past experiences regarding updates to your health benefits information?
- Imagine you've been notified to update your financial information in order to maintain your co-pay and health care benefits. How might you go about doing that?
> I don't know what I do. I'll wait for them to tell me what to do.
>
> Rather do it online and submit last year's tax income.
- Describe your preferred method of notification to update your health care information.
> Email kind of work. For important information, the mail is good.
- How would you expect to update your information online? What specific steps would you take?
> Prefer a link to update information. Would not do any until instructed to do so. 

### Things to watch for:

- [What's the participant's mental model around updating their health care information?]
- [If they have updated their health care benefits information before, was it in person, by phone, or by mail?]


## Second Task: [Wayfinding - Static Page] - 5 minutes

- **You'll be interacting with a beta version of the website today.** This tool has not been released and it may not function exactly the way you expect. Since it is linked to the VA system, it will show you your real information. Towards the end, I will remind you not to submit anything.
- For this next scenario, imagine you just started a new job and your health insurance has changed because of it. Now, you've realized that you need to update your insurance details for your VA health care benefit. To do that, you decided to search on Google to find out how and where you can update your information. Google takes you to this page on VA.gov you're about to see. For this scenario, are you comfortable with sharing your screen and talking through your thought process?
- Please be sure to close any personal information, like email, Facebook, etc., before you share your screen.
- [Share link to (https://staging.va.gov/health-care/update-health-information-1/) in Zoom chat]
- You arrived at this page. Please take a few minutes to review this page and explain what the content on this page means to you and then what you would do next.

**Participant questions** 
> P9 notes that it is an inexpensive way to get healthcare.
>
> Concern if employment with make means you have to pay more.
- How would you want to normally navigate to this page?
> Click on the "sign in" button.
>
> Would not call, it is a waste of time.
>
> Wants an app for the VA that would navigate her to the location.
>
> Don't see "mandatory" label on the page, so this form must be optional.
- Did you have any questions about the information listed?
- On a scale of 1-5 (1 being very poorly and 5 being very well) - how prepared does this page make you feel about the form you are about to begin? - Why did you give it that rating?
> Rate of 3. No positive or negative.
- Do you have any suggestions or feedback for making the page and update process better?
> Looking for the "why" are we need to update it.
> "... it tells me what/how to update, but doesn't tell my WHY"

### Things to watch for:

- [Quotes from participants about any content on the static page that makes them feel uneasy, confused, or not prepared to complete the application.]
- [Comments about the terms used on the static page.]


## Third Task: [Intro page] - 5 minutes

- Could you please sign into your VA.gov account the typical way you would do so?
- [Share link to (https://VA.gov/my-health/update-benefits-information-form-10-10ezr) in Zoom chat]
- You arrived at this page. Please take a few minutes to review this page and explain what the content on this page means to you and then what you would do next.

**Participant questions** 
- Please summarize the most important information you found on the page to prepare for the form.
> "Why would I bother filling this information out? It is not mandatory." 
>
> Retired, so not seeking employment so things are not going to change.
>
> Funny that the VA uses "EZ" like the IRS
- On a scale of 1-5 (1 being very poorly and 5 being very well) - how prepared does this page make you feel about the form you are about to begin? - Why did you give it that rating?
> Does not say mandatary anywhere and stick with a 3.
- Do you have any suggestions or feedback for making the page and update process better?
> There is no compelling reason to fill it out, having a job would mean that the prescription would go up.

### Things to watch for:

- [Quotes from participants about any content on the intro page that makes them feel uneasy, confused or not prepared to complete the application.]
- [Comments about time and/or actions to gather information mentioned on intro page.]
- [Does the navigational placement of the new form make sense to the Veteran?]

## Fourth Task: [The Form] - 10 minutes

- For this next task, we are going to have you go through the form as if you were prompted to update your information. This is a special beta version of the form, accessible via the email you provided before its official release. Please be careful not to submit unless you intend to update your health benefits information for real.
- As you go through the form, could you please talk aloud about what you would need to do as you go.

> Happy to see there are 4 steps not 15.

**Participant questions** 
- What are your expectations regarding the prefilling feature?
> I'm happy, less typing.
>
> Noticed that page 3 is still on Step 1. "now it is a rabbit hole"
> 
> Don't want to fill out the page but there are only a few clicks.
>
> Income, would need to refer to tax reform.
>
> Spouse keeps their financial information separated, it would be a bit hard for P9 to get this information.
>
> Curious if IRA is part of the Income.
>
> Potential Bug: Are you still you want to delete your previous form? The Yes and No buttons delayed showing.  


### Things to watch for:

- [Does the participant notice the pre-fill alerts?]
- [Does the participant notice that the pre-filled information can be edited? ]
- [Does the participant notice that the household financial information is not pre-filled? ]
- [Is there any struggle with the household and insurance's multiple-responses pattern?] 

## Post-Task Interview - 2 minutes

- Is there anything else you would like to add about what we talked about today?
> A little curious that the VA copied the IRS "EZ" form.
- Any questions for me?
> VA uses a secure email system, some people need that (access at a public location).
> Any information sent to you, you have to get to the secure messages. She finds it annoying.

## Consent to use video clips

- I want to circle back and re-confirm that **you are comfortable if we were to share a video clip of this session with our VA partners?** Just to remind you, we will remove all information that could be used to identify you before sharing and will only share the videos with VA partners with the purpose of improving VA.gov and other digital experiences.
   - If yes: Is there any part of our discussion you would NOT want shared in a video clip?

