## eBenefits COE usability testing session 2
#### Conducted: March 17, 2022 via Zoom
#### Moderator: Candy Clark
#### Participants: 1
#### Session Recorded: Yes
#### Note-taker: Shannon Housel

### Participant 1

---

`Unedited transcript`

## Warm-up Questions (Optional) - 5 minutes
Before we look at the website, let’s start with a few warm-up questions.
-	Please tell us a little bit about yourself? Uh I joined the navy at 17. In 1978 and uh I uh stayed for 20 years and retired in 98. Probably 80-90 percent I was law enforcement. I have seen a lot of stuff. I am 90 percent disabled veterans and suffers from PTSD due to the military. I use ebenefits a lot and I didn’t know this was making a change. I am not use to it yet and cant find it yet where I could find it in ebenefits. I was denied caregiver help in 2019 and just got a letter that a lawsuit was filed and I need to apply again. Once I retired I went to boarder protection and retir3ed a few years a lot. I moved back to New Orleans after 40 years away. I used to look at all my letters on ebenefits and now I am trying to see where that stuff is. Maybe it is me because I’m old and it’s probably right there and I don’t see it. I think I talked to someone in the caregiver program and they said it would have came from the VA health department not the rating office so maybe I shouldn’t have been looking there. 
-	Have you applied for a VA-backed loan before? I did way back in 1982. When they use to actually give you a certificate. It was an easy process. I am in the process of building a home and the company I am dealing with tells me it is easier to get a loan then the va loan. I didn’t use it and haven’t used it. My va eligibility was taken from be because it was foreclosed. I cant get one but my wife is a veteran also. So we haven’t tried to get a va loan

## First Task: Wayfinding - 5 minutes
-	You heard there was a way on VA.gov to apply for a COE, where would you look for that? Um. Lets see what is down here. I am thinking I could just search it in the search engine but I thought maybe to look down here that says va home loans or anything of that nature. I think it may be under service benefits. Before I start clicking I look around to see what some of this is. I don’t think it would be in any of these. It may be in the records but I doubt it but I would look under service member benefits. I assume you want me to find what I am looking for. I am skimming through quickly to see if theres anything that catches my eye but I don’t see anything. Oh no there it is right there, this here. Lets see. Right here checking the eligible for va home loan. I would fool around with trying to see if I need to go further here. I am guessing this is just infomration here this isnt trying to get it.
-	What now to request one: Uh. I guess I would go to how to request a COE. When I saw COE I was like that does that mean but I assume I go there. Right here I guess. It looks like it gives me stuff I need to start the process; I would need all of this information. I am sure they will ask a lot of stuff. 

## Second Task: Complete 26-1880 - 10 minutes
-	So you've come to this page; what do you do next? Um. I would go to how to request the loan. Let’s see. I am trying to find where it wonts me to request it and I was just reading this one. This sounds like it is a survivor spouse. Then this is finding out about the va home loan so I assume its for someone that already requested one. I guess right here request COE now. Lets see. I would need to sign in. I would go here request COE.  I am looking at what else is down here prior to going to the next so I will be prepared knowing how this are. Infomraiton in this stuff is probably pretty good stuff that tells you ahead of time. I know when you called I was trying to answer it but couldn’t because I wasn’t prepared but this infomraiton would help me so then I would go to request COE. I would get all of the information before I went any further to make sure I had it because they will ask all kind of stuff like exact dates that I may not remember.
    -	Filling in the information is pretty basic. Um, I wasn’t paying attention enough to know if the application ID number is important but I would probably write this down because it may be important at some time. I don’t think it was at the beginning when my name was in. Um, I wouldn’t have to worry about putting this in before going forward, I would assume I would get an error to confirm the email before going forward. Right that’s what I figured it would do, I know that if I put it in it would move me to the next one. 
    - Which of these describe me, should I pick one of these. That’s me, I don’t know about hector. 
    - Um this says add another service period, in my situation I did 4 years then came back in, I think that’s where that would come into play. In my situation I did 4 years got out and was in the inactive reserves and within 2 months I went back into the Navy. It didn’t count toward retirement but I think they still considered me as signed up if that makes sense. I don’t know if I would be required to put that in or not. 
    - Let’s see. Do you want me to answer this as me, I would put yes because I have had one. Oh boy. Okay. do you want me to make up the dates because I don’t remember them.
    - What would you do: Um, I would leave it blank. Well I would guess at it. Um now if it’s something that I could guess at there could me an approximate date/year I can’t remember the month but I remember the year. It doesn’t say its required, I would probably skip it. In my situation it was foreclosed so I would leave it blank, I didn’t pay it off. I can put an address if you want me to. I wouldn’t know what this is so I would leave it blank, is it the account number for the loan or the va number. I don’t know either one so I would leave it blank. I see that I can finish it later if I want to go look for the number I can do that
    - Would you look or leave it blank: it was about 40 years ago I wouldn’t look. It was with my ex-wife I wouldn’t know it. I might try to contact the va to see if they can tell me. there is probably here if I need help to call that number to ask about the loan number. If it is the va number or account number from the bank. I might call for clarity. I assume that’s what they number is for; I have seen that one each one of them 
    - Um I would select this. Um, I am not sure what they mean about restoration of entitlements means. I never thought to hover over it but nope. The cash out is pulling equity out of the home, then I know the IRRL. The one I selected is for someone trying to get the COE, maybe the top is for someone that sold the home and now entitled to another one. I understand that after you may it off. We sold it the one my wife had in VA so maybe that’s where we could go. 
    - Where would you go: I guess now that I think about it I would select this one. Maybe not knowing a hyperlink right there for an explanation. Maybe I am ignorant that just doesn’t know. This could mean they sold the house and the COE doesn’t go with it. I think they use to but they do not know. I think it is asking for the COE back again. 
    - What next: I would upload the DD214 but I think the VA should already have it. when you apply for a medical disability you don’t upload the record because it is already there. I would assume they have access to the DD214 but I would still do it due to them asking. I would probably see what this says, I would upload the document, I would have needed it in my computer to do that. Then click upload the document. I assume it is there but it says delete. Would this be a hyperlink because when I do upload documents I look at it before. We both have dd214 so I would put DD214 and our name for both my wife and I. would it be a hyperlink, it lets me put more documents in and it looks like I uploaded the file and theres an option to delete if it is wrong but no option to look at it to check. I assume it would let me. Do I need to upload another document
    - Do you think you need to: That’s a good question, maybe that the home was sold. I would see if I could upload this if you have it in there, I only know it because we just sold a house. This might show that I choose the one to get my COE back they would know if the loan was paid off, I don’t know if that’s enough proof but I assume you know what’s in it. 
    - Anything here that tells you want you need or don’t need to upload or something to help you know if you need it: I don’t know what this form is but I assume it is the application form maybe. No I don’t see where it is asking me to do anything else. Although it says something is required. I don’t know what would be required. It is saying to upload another document btu I didn’t see anything where it says I need anything other than the dd214. In this situation, I guess no. 
    - How would you move forward: I would see how I could get this off of here. Oh there its off then I would click continue. 
    - I would look at each one of these to make sure that the infomraiton is right.  I would look at the supporting document and maybe the hyperlink would be there if it is to review it. It would be nice to see it and that’s how I do it to make sure. From here check this and hit continue.  I have to et close to it because I cant see. I could print this to have documentation that I applied for it. It takes 5 business days. I did it okay. 
    - What now: I would print this just how I am. I am not one to look for stuff on the computer. I would wait 5-6 days then see what happens. 
    - How to follow up: I was trying to see how they would contact me. I guess I would call that number 
    - How would you want them to: I don’t know other than the information I gave them, email, and number. I assume it would be an email. I don’t expect the va to call each person but I can click the link to check the status.

### Follow-up questions - 5 minutes
-	How could we make things easier or clearer? Probably put the hyperlinks to check what you uploaded. Maybe an explanation of what the reasons you are applying for the COE. I am not 100 percent sure that’s the one I should choose but I think it is. Sometimes they have hyperlinks with explanations for what they are looking for. Just you know we are understand we are doing this within a certain amount of time, I found most of it on my own and it is something somebody could do. It isnt as difficult as I thought it was. I found the right place to go I just had to look. Most people doing this are young people. I am still trying to figure how to get a picture form my phone to my computer. Do you have an audio one for people that are blind. 

## Third Task: Pending with uploads requested - 5 minutes
-	Take a look at this screen and describe what you see: Well I assume I wouldn’t need to sign in because I was already signed in. I would go right here. I miss read that; I am sorry it says appeals . I would click here and sign in. Would this link get me to here. Okay so I am there and I would click sign in. 
-	What just happened? They need more information form me. they want me to upload information. They are asking me to upload the information
-	What do you need to upload: They want the notification letter they sent me. Wherever that is I don’t know what’s in that letter. Is there a copy of the letter somewhere. I was scrolling and maybe it is right here. If I click on there maybe it is the letter that tells me what they need. They want my birth certificate. I assume it is on the computer. Never mind there it went. I hit the arrow when I needed to click the box. Okay so birth certificate. Upload. I don’t know much about computers, I guess its open. That was the only document they wanted at least so I would upload it. They need more information. I would be confused here. I am think I am seeing this again for the second time, when I was reading the letter I would only know what popped up because the rest was blurry. I would assume they need more that is in the letter but I don’t know what they is without seeing the letter. 
-	If it still said birth certificate what would you do at this point: Uh I don’t know. I don’t see where it says I am finished. Unless it is under this stuff. 
-	What would you do: I would call someone to ask if they needed something else. It is possible I could exit out it says the documents were uploaded successfully so I assume they got it but I don’t see the verification. I guess that’s what this is saying but maybe have something here. 
-	What kind of confirmation are you looking for: I would be looking for something similar to the review part. This might be good for some people but I was looking around and didn’t see this right away. Maybe that is enough but I know I started looking to see if it was done or exit out of this part telling me I was done. 

## Fourth Task: Download existing COE - 5 minutes
-	Take a look at this screen and describe what you see: theres an option for me to download the COE. I would click on that link right there. I would scroll down to see what’s there to make sure I see everything. I see it says I can make changes, maybe you got married in the last 5 days or a change of address. I don’t know. I would click on this link right here. 
-	Clicked link: I would be looking at my name to make sure it matches my information which this one doesn’t. I don’t remember seeing one I think it was a green piece of paper a longtime ago. it says I am eligible for it. 
-	What is your next step? I would try to see how to print the thing. I mean I would figure out how to print it.
-	If you left this page, what do you think would happen to your COE/link?  I would assume it is always there. I would go back to where we were at. I would get back to this and back to download I assume it would still be there. Again it might move to a different file, I don’t know if it does after printing it once but this is where I would look for it. 
-	Anything to make it easier: I mean the things I mentions about the question mark explanation of what they are looking for would help. Once I looked at it, it was easy to request it. I am not good at acronyms I didn’t know what COE was until I read the side of it. 

