# Rules of Engagement (ROE) - P1 Notes

*UX Designer, VFS - Benefits & Memorials Team*

Thursday, Oct 24, 2019 at 4pm ET

## Intro - 5 minutes

**Moderator:** Thanks for joining us today! My name is Naomi and I also have some colleagues on the line observing and taking notes. Today we're going to talk about the experience of the VFS team working with the VSP team.

Before we start, a few things I want to mention:

- **This entire session should take about 30 min.** I want to be sure not to keep you much longer, so I may occasionally prompt you with the next question or topic.

- **In this session, we want to hear your honest opinions.** We are not testing your ability. We just want to improve the process so we can all better meet Veteran's needs. I will not be offended by any opinions you express, and I welcome your feedback.

- **If for any reason and at any time you want to stop the session, please let me know.**

- Are you comfortable if I record my screen and audio as we talk today?

Absolutely.

*Start recording.*

- **I have started recording. I'd like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record my screen the audio as we talk today?"**

Yes definitely.

## Interview questions for VFS team members

**Moderator:**  How long have you worked on veteran-facing tools?

I've been on the project for about 2 months now. Haven't worked on any other team before that.

**Moderator:**  What is your practice area?

I'm a Senior Designer and Researcher.

**Moderator:**  Do you have other people on the team doing IA and content?

We do, there is a team specific to it. Mikki Northuis and Peggy Gannon. On my particular team there is no one who does it specifically.

**Moderator:**  Have you heard of the term Rules of Engagement? 

I don't think I have, no.

**Moderator:** What does it mean to you?

Um... Rules of Engagement... Depends on the context. Just what you need to do with the rules for doing something or starting something. Before you get started with something, what needs to be the burden of proof to do something.

**Moderator:**  Have you heard of a document called Rules of Engagement? 

I have not, no.

**Moderator:**  What would you expect from this type of document?

Um... I suppose it would have to do with the context...

**Moderator:**  The context would be your practice area of design, what would you think in that role?

If it pertained to research and design in that role, the things you would have to do or the criteria around creating a design or research project is probably how I would look at it.

 **Moderator:** Where do you think you'd find it?

Maybe in one of 2 places: I might try and find it in the github repo, possibly or maybe somewhere in a Google sheet. A shared environment where everyone can access it.

**Moderator:** Where do you think this type of document would live?

It's structured per product now for the things I've had to access. I guess I don't know of anywhere it would make sense primarily for single source of truth for design type stuff. I don't quite know.

**Moderator:** So you haven't found a document like this in your explorations. 

There are some guideline type documents, one of them is a google sheet type document that had lots of information. That just had general process for starting a research plan and that kind of thing. I don't think there have been too many shared documents that I've had to access. I've been goign pretty heavy on one of the studies I've been doing. I do think it makes sense for there to be a shared document for this type of stuff.

**Moderator:** How do you go back and find it?

I'm a little embarrassed to say I just keep the tab up. 

[Laughter]

I actually started off working with Layla, she was great and had a lot of information and gave me all kinds of information. What I did in order to not lose them, I took the URL and slacked it to myself. I gave myself a long message and Slacked it to myself. So I have those... Is it the best way to do it? Probably not. It's not going to get buried in a conversation to myself. That's what I've been doing for those kind of documents to kind of keep them top of mind and around.

**Moderator:** What prompted you to go back to the document that has all the answers?

I just kept referring to it because as I went through the process, I wanted to make sure -- I'm doing research and synthesis -- That I'm following as much of a standard as I possibly could. There is a presentation, a research readout on Caregiver discovery I think it was and I took a look at that as a baseline. Then another research summary as well for another product.

That document did have good information for synthesis, it told you generally a good cadence for doing it, how you should generally approach it, rules around it. Talking to Lauren A. to get things kicked off with Perigean, things like that. I referred back to it to make sure I was in line with what the process was as much as we have it.

**Moderator:** You mentioned that document and a few other examples. What do you feel is missing? What do you want to have in there?

I felt like it was pretty good... I would say it references a few things, I think it wants you to have a visual. It references the discovery readout. It referenced a research summary but it had moved to another repo so that wa sa broken link for me.

**Moderator:** How often have you come across that?

A few times definitely in that document for sure. I can't point to any particular ones off the top of my head but it has happened a few times. With the research summary I found, I just went digging. I wanted to see if I could find a good one that made a lot of sense and sent it to Shawna and asked if it was a good example of a research summary and she said it was so I decided to find that.

**Moderator:** When you went digging, where did you go if you remember?

I remember going into just products in the repo. If I found a research folder, I would click through and see if I could find a summary. The first one that I saw that I would say had good detail, was exhaustive and had good structure I sent to Shawna and she said that looks good and to use it as a baseline.

**Moderator:** Ok cool! So this document was a reserach document. Are there any other steps or things you would expect ot find or working norms... things you still have questions about that would be helpful to have?

I definitely thought that the document.. I think Shawna put it together. That was really valuable and a lifesaver. We have different professionals coming together from different organizations and I watned to see if there are standards and I thought that was excellent to... bumper lane everything so you know you are headed in the right direction. The only thing I would say is adding to that document... I can send it to you. The only other thing I would say to add to it is.. examples of everything, but I would like to see standardized opportunity areas, recommendations and key themes and takeaways. I think there is terminology that could be standardized. So that is the only gap I really saw in it.

Yeah! Essentially just that. Shawna gave me some - I asked her point blank, I have done synthesis this way. Is this how everyone else does it? I would like to see a standardized process but I don't want it to be too rigid but I would like expectations to be set around deliverables and what comes out of research. And she said I do it this way, I've seen it done that way. So that's the path I chose to do research. So more specific stuff  down to thi sis what we do, we say these are our key themes, we make recommendations based on those. I used to do it where we called it "Opportunity Areas" - its' kind of the same thing right, this is a theme, this is what you're seeing, we could do this. It's kind of like a recommendation. So anyway, standardizing those kinds of terms.

And general process as it pertains to research and everything. Deliverables would be great too. "We do a readout, we do affinity mapping, that's part of what we do." That's called certain different things too. That would provide some value in my opinion.

**Moderator:** Taking the understood process and defining what we do here. What about design? have yous een any of that documentation?

I have seen some design documentation. The design system, yeah. 

**Moderator:** Was that easy to find? Do you know ehre to go back and refer to ti?

Yep, absolutely. I have it open and in my Slack usually. I think it might be design-system.va.gov, I could probably very quickly find it again. I thougth the design system was pretty well done as far as a level of detail. Myself, I can't really make a judgment call this early on - I'll be honest, as far as mocking pu stuff the only thing I've done is one component. I don't think it's very fair to make a call on it on how exhaustive it is, areas of improvement. I've only erally tested it out really. 

**Moderator:** Okay! That's fair. So... I appreciate you taking the time! 

[Wrap up]

## Thank-You and Closing

Well, we really appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us today. Your feedback is so helpful to us as we continue to work on the process and make sure that it works for the VFS team.

Great, well thank you so much again, and enjoy the rest of your day!            
