# Rules of Engagement (ROE) - P5

*QA Engineer, VFS - ByLight*

Tuesday October 29, 2019 5:00pm ET

## Intro - 5 minutes

Thanks for joining us today! My name is Naomi and I also have some colleagues on the line observing and taking notes. Today we're going to talk about the experience of the VFS team working with the VSP team.

Before we start, a few things I want to mention:

- **This entire session should take about 30 min.** I want to be sure not to keep you much longer, so I may occasionally prompt you with the next question or topic.

- **In this session, we want to hear your honest opinions.** We are not testing your ability. We just want to improve the process so we can all better meet Veteran's needs. I will not be offended by any opinions you express, and I welcome your feedback.

- **If for any reason and at any time you want to stop the session, please let me know.**

- Are you comfortable if I record my screen and audio as we talk today?

   We use the recordings to confirm that we have captured your opinions accurately. The recordings are destroyed after we complete analysis, and none of your comments will be attributed to you directly.

  - If yes: **Once I start recording, I am going to confirm that you are ok with me recording this session once more.**

*Start recording.*

- **I have started recording. I'd like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record my screen the audio as we talk today?"**

Yes that's fine.

## Interview questions for VFS team members

**Moderator:** How long have you worked on veteran-facing tools?

Probably... a month. Maybe 3 weeks.

**Moderator:** What is your practice area?

Software testing, testing the UI. I'm just part time, I'm on another project too. I'm here a few hours a day.

**Moderator:** Is that other project a Veteran-facing tool??

Yes, it is.

**Moderator:** Oh what other team are you on?

MyHealtheVet.

**Moderator:** Okay so that and... ?

We are adding a little piece to the profile page on VA.gov and I'm doing UI testing. It's a small piece, small project right now. 

**Moderator:** Are you expected to be on this project long term?

I'm not exactly sure, I think right now temporarily filling in. Depending on how things move forward, I don't know how contract stuff works.

**Moderator:** Just curious! All of your feedback is super helpful.

**Moderator:**  Have you heard of the term Rules of Engagement? What does it mean to you?

Yes! I guess just the rules that we follow when we're working for the government I guess. Really for anywhere, but the rules of... confidentiality, the rules we follow to keep any patient data a secret. I can't think of the words! Secure! [_laughter_]

This is going in a different direction than I was anticipating!

**Moderator:**  Have you heard of a document called Rules of Engagement? 

I've gone through TMS training... Are we talking about the same thing?

**Moderator:** What is TMS training?

Something we go through each year to make sure we are reminded of the privacy rules.

**Moderator:** So I take it you haven't worked with an actual document called ROE before.

No I don't think so.

**Moderator:** Any other documentation that you would refer to for work processes and norms?

I've just done the TMS training. You answer questions and get a certificate, there are different courses I've taken through By Light to recertify every year.

**Moderator:** Are they specific to QA?

No they are general privacy stuff.

**Moderator:** How about on your other project? Any documentation that states how they want the team and the QA process to go?

Let's see on this project... Well I was given some documents that was pretty much just setting up my enviornment, um... Just onboarding, trying to think. A launch checklist. Rules... I don't recall a document, no.

**Moderator:** In the By Light product profile piece, how far along are you?

We are about finished and about to launch it. We are almost finished with the launch checklist and we are doing the e2e testing. I just created a video today for the contact center so they are updated on the change, just kind of a demo video. We should be launching before November 15, so in the next few weeks.

**Moderator:** You mentioned a checklist - where did you come across this?

Lisa K. gave us the launch checklist to work through and we are on the last couple of items.

**Moderator:** So you were given the checklist. In the process, since you are almost done - were there questions you had about what to do next? Or how was that progressing of you knowing what to do to complete the QA?

When Lisa gave us the launch checklist, she also gave us a contact person for each line item and instructions to set up an issue in Github and contact that person to help get that item checked off. So I've just gone through Slack and contacted each person to help and everyone has been very helpful to get us through each of those steps. It's very different from the other project I'm on the other half of the day.

**Moderator:** I'm curious what those checklists look like - what do they look like? What are on them?

The first one was a 508 review. You know what 508 is. So we met with - I'm not going to remember each name but we met with the 508 person and he went through our code and gave us some suggestions to make our code more accessible. There was a content team that reviewed the content, tehy made some changes. We did a design review and we wanted to do a usability test but we don't have the etime. We decided to do a UAT test after launch. Another thing on the list was a security review and we met with another guy to do the security review. We are also doing an analytics review - to make sure we are getting the correct analytics for that feature. E2E testing which we are working on today. Then the video I'm working on for the contact center. I'm missing a few but that is basically all the checklists.

**Moderator:** As you are going through those checklists, who is involved in those reviews?

E.G. is the main Front-End dev, M.T. is the Back-End. D.B. is the project manager on the By Light side, but she has been on vacation. She is probably the one who should've been doing through this launch checklist but I just kind of took it over so we can get through it. Those 3 people have been on most of the calls. Lisa has joined in on a few, I believe that is basically it.

**Moderator:** So like the team is going through each of these steps together.

Exactly, yeah.

**Moderator:** Were those helpful?

Oh very helpful, yeah. You know - things are done a little differently from project to project. It was a little going through this the first time but now that we've gone through it, it has definitely helped us. I hope we have more proejcts, the first one is always the hardest. They've given us great insight and we've gotten new information from each meeting on this checklist. On very few of tehm we've had to change something - very minor, but just improving the back end - like analytics and 508 and stuff. The hidden stuff.

**Moderator:** In the teams perception, did this slow down the team? Was it welcomed?

Both! It did slow it down but it definitely improved the product. It's a different kind of gate than we're used to. We learned a lot going through it the first time, the second time will be easier. There was a little confusion with the design that kind of - I guess it was the 508 review that kind of set us back to because -- anyway. We got through it.

**Moderator:** I know you're new but is there anything from your standpoint that could've been better documented, explained in ramping up?

Um... I was thinking about that before this call. I guess I wish I would've known that a lot of these... like Slack and Git and a few things probably I should've set them all up on my other computer, not the GFE that's through the VPN. I haven't - I'm just using the online features instead of downloading thme and I'm not getting the notifications not having set them up on my computer. So I don't have elevated priveleges on my GFE, so I got everything I thought set up as well as I could, and I was fighting against it and someone said, "Oh you should've set all this up on your other computer!" And I haven't had time to move it. So I am fighting against not having this stuff downloaded. Everything we do on our other project you have to be on the VPN. I didn't know that you can do testing on staging that has to be on a regular computer.

**Moderator:** So there was no other person on your discipline that told you how things work here?

Yeah I just didn't know the questions to ask. I had a lot of people helping me but I don't know if I just misunderstood. Or maybe I just assumed that it had to be through the VPN. So I'm not sure, definitely could've been my fault. With our other project, everything is done through the VPN.

**Moderator:** Anything else you wish you'd known ahead of time? Or other gaps in information you've seen?

No not really. But maybe just a little bit of who is responsible for what. Just coming in, I wasnt really sure what my role was supposed to be. Dorothy was leaving for vacation and I just stepped up and I don't know, we figured it out. We have our scrum twice a week and we have Slack so you just need to get in there and find out! That is just th elearning curve and everyone hates the learning curve. I think the next time will be a lot easier.

**Moderator:** Okay well we are here to help make it easier next time! 

## Thank-You and Closing - X minutes

Well, we really appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us today. Your feedback is so helpful to us as we continue to work on the process and make sure that it works for the VFS team.

Great, well thank you so much again, and enjoy the rest of your day!            
