# Rules of Engagement (ROE) - P6 Notes

*Product Manager, VFS - Authenticated Experience*

Tuesday, Oct 29, 2019 at 2:00pm ET

## Intro - 5 minutes

**Moderator:** Thanks for joining us today! My name is Naomi and I also have some colleagues on the line observing and taking notes. Today we're going to talk about the experience of the VFS team working with the VSP team. 

Before we start, a few things I want to mention:

This entire session should take about 30 min. I want to be sure not to keep you much longer, so I may occasionally prompt you with the next question or topic.

**VFS team member:** Okay

**Moderator:** In this session, we want to hear your honest opinions. We are not testing your ability. We just want to improve the process so we can all better meet Veteran's needs. I will not be offended by any opinions you express, and I welcome your feedback.

**VFS team member:** Okay

**Moderator:**  If for any reason and at any time you want to stop the session, please let me know. Are you comfortable if I record my screen and audio as we talk today?

**VFS team member:**  Yeah sure that’s fine

**Moderator:**  Just for going back to referencing notes

**VFS team member:**  Is this regarding UX process or design process?

**Moderator:** No you’re process!

**VFS team member:** Oh okay!

**Moderator:**  Once I start recording, I am going to confirm that you are ok with me recording this session once more.

*Start recording.*

**Moderator:**  I have started recording. I'd like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record my screen the audio as we talk today

**VFS team member:** Yeah yeah that’s fine




## Interview questions for VFS team members

**Moderator:**  Specifically we’re talking Rules of Engagement documents we want to talk about the usability and findability.
How long have you worked on veteran-facing tools?

**VFS team member:** I’m fairly new, I began July 17 of this year, just a little over 3 months now

**Moderator:** What is your practice area?

**VFS team member:** I'm a product manager

**Moderator:** Have you heard of the term Rules of Engagement? What does it mean to you?

**VFS team member:** I have in past roles and experience and coming here it was part of the onboarding process so reading on the documentation For me it’s more so a guidelines on how to either approach counterparts, teammates, leadership, just a framework how to reach out for people or how to conduct business really. Anywhere I've been it’s a Rules of Engagement, it’s a framework, once something starts you can quickly see some changes are needed or there could be some wiggle room. That's my take on what that means to me

**Moderator:** That's great Have you heard of a document called Rules of Engagement? That exists for product managers?

**VFS team member:** As far as…?

**Moderator:** Have you seen anything like that?

**VFS team member:** If so it would have been in the onboarding documentation, because I’'m not going to sit here and say I’m tied to that, once we got going, we got going and Ii don’t look back at it. I would say no.

**Moderator:** Do you think a Rules of Engagement would be something you refer back to or just read it once?

**VFS team member:** Depends on how the overall team is structured how contract is structured, if I try to use it daily? I try to do a lot of stuff organically where it’s working, I feel like having a document makes it harder to get the info you need. It makes it harder to get through steps in place. I try to operate in the reality of how things are structured if I'm not able to get what I need, I can use it as a reference point. For sure, I would refer to it in the event or if there was a misunderstanding, this person keeps hitting me up for information and there are other ways people can communicate. I’d refer to it daily for my sanity so that everyone can have a common understanding how and what is expected and when info is seeked out whatever case it may be 

**Moderator:** Where would you expect to find this document?

**VFS team member:** Probably a single source of truth where everything is kept and managed. Each place I’ve been it’s been in various places. It’s also very good to have something like that in team portal so you can refer to it quickly. Wherever all the other documentation is. For any type of coordination of communication that needs to happen in between the parties that are involved...

**Moderator:** This would be for your practice area? This would be a product management Rules of Engagement, where would you think to find that information?

**VFS team member:** Ummm..for me specifically? Um...if it hasn’t been set it stone from the outset of the contract, I don’t really know where I’d find it or where’d  I look. I'd seek my management or team leadership to have it documented somewhere so we can work with different people and different things, conflict. Mediating situations, resolving issues that need more than one party to figure something out. I really don’t know where I would go. I would reach out to leadership.

**Moderator:** In the 3 months you've been here, have you come across a time where you needed that information? Since onboarding has there been a situation where you’re thinking, oh yeah I don’t know what we’re doing there?

**VFS team member:** Possibly. In the 3 months, my team started and quickly on the tail end of onboarding to take off and keep going. Of course it’s a lot of info just to begin with, then we got substance actual, real work. We didn't have  a ramp up period, I think there was a gray area there, as things were going there's a team going, all new members, existing members, we would know how to work together, how we can work together, what processes are there, we can bring on. That’s kinda my take on that. I don’t know if there's a particular instance but sure there are lots of small miscommunications, varying expectations from different team members, let’s see what Rules of Engagement for say a contract or a team, just so we can have a smooth operation overall

**Moderator:** In your experience, you had an onboarding and got to work, do you feel like you missed that piece for product management as a whole?

**VFS team member:**  Kind of, maybe since so many players were involved. I'm not too sure what ball is in whose court, is it my company as a contractor on this particular contract also the customer aligning their expectations and we found a common ground or do we rely on the customer and see? For me it’s a bit of how fast it took off, it could have been a better understanding from the beginning. There’s a lay of the land and where it can go. The velocity it was going, we could have made it a little clearer. *lost this info*
I think it’s just a mixture of different things

**Moderator:** You have mentioned the customer, who do you see as the customer on your team?

**VFS team member:** In my opinion the customer is VA. I’m a contractor along with other team members on the contract

**Moderator:** Do you have any documentation you got on onboarding that you go back and refer to?

**VFS team member:** A lot like the PM checklist that keeps me onboard when we’re building out our products and work, definitely documentation we lean heavily on. I rely heavily on product launch checklist, a lot of compliant stuff like 508, basically the various components. I utilize all those specific documents from the beginning. This is how we get to A-Z this is how you want to get to A-Z. We don’t want to go back and do something because we missed a step. I actually go back to that pretty heavily

**Moderator:** Do you have a bookmark or document?

**VFS team member:** I have a whole favorited section in github portal to quickly access when needed. Hey, these were the things provided on platform team, this is how we get it done. They nestle inside of github. 

**Moderator:** You save a bookmark in your browser?

**VFS team member:** Yes just to prefer quickly or if there’s a specific area of something I got to get to. Just to see what we need on this 508 checklist from trevor? Who are the contacts I need to reach out to in case I have questions on what we’re working on

**Moderator:** How far are you in the process of developing your product?

**VFS team member:** In our case we were asked to take on work mostly developed by team before us. We were asked to basically get it across the finish line? We were through with the development process before the testing as done. We had a soft BETA, we haven’t fully released to all users, we’re trying to see ways we can correct those errors. Basically a transaction where a user can show pain points, so we’re going back to rectify the experience

I think we were 80% in the development process, from a beta release to a small amount of users. We are almost there but we’re making refinements daily to get to a finished product again. We’re okay to having this to given 100% of users, know that we have insights to see how system errors we have a better understanding now. Allowing the functionality to be out there, we’re 80% in the development process because we’re being stepped back to finish work quicker to be expected

**Moderator:** In the point of the process, have you had any gaps in the documents?

**VFS team member:** Some of the gaps are about understanding the process like. Let’s say we have 10 steps if we follow steps 1-10 and no we have to get something to fix like step 6, do we continue to fix step 7,8,9 or do we fix that test and go back to 10; sometimes due to all the different hands that may be on something, not everyone knows why the step 7,8,9, need to get to 10. I think there are some gaps there, truly defining any event realize we need to make more improvement, is there now a process/doc for that? Just so everyone on the team can have an understanding when there’s outside influence. Just so we can create the best quality product you can get before it goes out.

People tend to put aside the actual need for process because it’s more so getting it out there. We have some high level people wanting this. I think that's the gaps in it, for me, because of the scenario of what we’re walking on. You hope that’s not how every product will go. We came in and this was priority but we took that. Now that we know the lessons learned from this scenario, kind of out of the norm on typical ways people approached this 


**Moderator:** Did you have a point of contact?

**VFS team member:** Our point of contact was the customer for one. If they don’t  feel they have an understanding of what the next steps are to be I engage the platform and engage others. I don't want to strictly go to platform, get guidance, and by the time my customers see it they don’t know what’s going on. As a customer we’re trying to solve whatever the issue is. Transparency is important why something is what it is. Why something gets to this point. I do a lot of stuff that works for my time, my relationships, my counterparts, don't know if it’s a one size fits all

**Moderator:** Having a documentation formalized, stuff for iterating, would that help with communication with VA?

**VFS team member:** Any type of formal documentation I can point back to always a conversation starter. Anyone reading can be yay or nay I'm cool with that or not. This is why I at least start it at this point. It's more so a guideline or framework, there’s a lot of refining constantly happening, I can understand why our process goes through 1-8 but skip 5. It can vary. Having a formal process documentation is great for a conversation started and we can all start on level playing fields on why I approached it as product manager. If it’s not working and my counterparts are not like this. Then it kinda helps that discussion if things need to change

**Moderator:** Have you encountered the product you’re building, is so different from other products that you feel things have been documented relate to you or don't relate?

**VFS team member:** For sure, I shared that viewpoint once I understand what the authenticated experience was. Whatever the authenticated experience, anything a user that logs on va.gov. Any part of that when a user is logged in. There’s a lot of reasons we can be creative and be better. A lot of room for creativity really making hypothesis and vets. Other teams I learn from different meetings, some teams have to migrate a certain part of something here. Where will it sit best from a UX? Or content people, will they have strict guidelines? I feel authenticated experience is the one area on va.gov is the sole prime area of true product management where you can take something that doesn’t exist to it existing. Other teams, get this here, put that there, sometimes there’s a lot of direction. We have a lot of freedom in authenticated experience based on google analytics. Can we redefine a space? Visual effects? Easily flow a user to have

**Moderator:**  This is really great information, taking the time to explain. We will definitely take that part. Please feel free to send the links that have been helpful to you. If you feel like you’d want to add notes, otherwise I’d appreciate your time today and I really appreciate getting to know you 
