# April 2, 2024: Form field removal pre-CCB
*Ask VA VA.gov Team*

## Attendees

- Ask VA VA.gov: Becky Phung, Tyler gindraux
- CRM: Chris Clemens, Wandy Espana, Maria King, Jaime Rocha, Tamara Kanterman
- VHA: Mary Ewers (Caregiver Support)

## Summary

- We recommended removing gender and reason you're contacting us.
- Caregiver Support felt it makes sense to remove these fields.

## Actions

- [ ] Becky will email VHA stakeholders from other business areas to follow up

## Notes

- Split inquiry (Tamara)
  - Tamara: “Should we change how this is calculated? By original inquiry creation date or split inquiry creation date.”
  - Mary: “It does skew our data a little bit. Our team tends to respond fairly quickly, within 2 business days. But like I said, it’s not the majority so it’s not the end of the world for us. But I know that other teams have a much different response rate so I don’t know if that’s impacting them differently than Caregiver Support.”
  - Mary: “Because we’re very quick at turning it around, it doesn’t impact us too much. But it does skew our data.
- Review of portal fields (Becky)
  - Mary: “[Removing ‘reason you contacted us’] makes sense. Some of my staff have made comments like this person said it was a compliment but it’s not. So this makes sense!”
  - Mary: “Makes sense for us. [Gender is] not even a data piece we look at for our team. The resources and information we provide – I can think of a very rare, maybe less than 1% where we provide a resource that’s specific to gender. But it’s so uncommon that it’s not going to have an impact on our team.”
  - Mary: [Pronouns] “Makes sense.”
  - Mary: “[Everything] makes sense to me. I’m on board.”
- How do you coordinate with the My HealtheVet help desk right now?
  - Here’s what that the MHV help desk that can support: 
    - Users who already have healthcare
    - Questions related to online patient portal account
    - prescription refill questions
    - account information problems (data not displaying or being incorrect / missing info)
    - login issues
    - Questions about these four major tools: secure messaging, medications, medical records, appointments
    - BTSSS
    - Co-pay payments
    - Medical supply re-ordering
    - 10-10EZR updates
  - Mary: “From an AVA standpoint, we don’t.”
  - Mary: “I would have to follow up with the other leadership members in my team to see how closely we’re working with them right now. I know we’ve worked with them a little in the past, but I’d have to see what that looks like right now.”
  - Becky: “The help desk is expecting to support on [reads list above]. I think they’re asking us because they want to know what that overlap might look like with the help desk. If you do see that overlap, let us know.”
  - Mary: “Sounds good.”
- Issues (Tamara)
  - Confirmation of inquiry submission emails are not being sent
  - We’re receiving several inquiries a day where the submitter email is blank
  - Inquiries over 25 days for VHA–Caregiver Support: 0 
