# July 26, 2023: Health care business line review

*Ask VA Integration Team*

## Agenda

- Intros: 5 minutes
- Review form fields: 15 minutes
- Review proposed names of category/subtopic: 20 minutes
- How you answer an inquiry: 10 minutes
- Share 1st design iteration: 5 mins
- Wrap up: 5 minutes

## Attendees

- Ask VA Integration Team: Becky, Tyler, Thomas, Em, Joe, Eddie, Chante, Andrea, Khoa
- VHA (Caregiver Support): Mary Ewers, Jennifer Mcalinden
- CRM Team: Shelby, Jaime, Maria King, Kathleen, Wayne Eberly
- *Not present: ECM (Enrollment Case Management), HAC (Health Administration Center) and Women Veterans Health Care*

## Key takeaways

- **We only met with folks from Caregiver Support.** We were missing attendees from ECM (Enrollment Case Management), HAC (Health Administration Center) and Women Veterans Health Care.
- We learned that `Zip Code` is **important for Caregiver Support**. And `Is the Veteran deceased?` helps them know whether to give information for a surviving spouse. They don't let people `upload documents` (and want to keep it that way).
- But other fields should be **on our radar for (potential) removal**:
    - `Tell us the reason you're contacting us?`
    - `Suffix`
    - `Address`
- We reviewed proposed name changes, and learned that Caregiver Support added "VA" to their topic name **so it wouldn't show first on the list** (alphabetically).
> "We were getting so many inappropriate inquiries sent our way; we requested that it be changed so we weren't at the top of the list."
- They approved adding acronyms back to their subtopics. But, they said **they don't really look at the subtopics.** Subtopics were added so that submitters **know they only deal with inquiries related to those programs.**
- **Receiving irrelevant inquiries is their biggest painpoint.** They receive a lot of inquiries that aren't meant for them, because:
    - submitters choose the wrong category or topic
    - and/or internal teams re-route to Caregiver Support incorrectly.
- They shared **concerns about a one-thing-per-page approach,** and "the consumer having to go through a bunch of pages." 

## Actions

- [ ] Chante/Ruchi decide best approach for getting feedback from the rest of VHA teams
- [ ] Set up a meeting with Sitewide Content to review category, topic and subtopic proposed names
- [ ] Explore descriptive text for select menus
- [ ] Analyze whether most frequently chosen topics/subtopics are often 1-3 on the list
- [ ] Recommend adding more descriptive text on the backend so inquiries can be re-routed well

## Unabbreviated notes

- [Spreadsheet to review](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1zaSB4xrnUbW7c75_nvmkU-_R09jb2O4zpNhmWel1U9I/edit#gid=296052415)
- Tyler: Is everyone ok with recording?
  - Ruchi started recording
- Ruchi sent an email reminder about this meeting to the entire audience of this meeting to request them to join.
- VA added to Caregiver support to get lower in the dropdown list
  - Reason - we were receiving really inappropriate questions that were not related so we put our below in the list.
- Question from Jennifer - When we try to do a split response with a reroute, it doesn’t allow us to reroute to for example PATS-R (need local VA to answer), it allows us to reroute only for specific sections (VBA, etc.). When inquiries has multiple questions involving multiple teams
  - Question for the CRM team
  - Jennifer brought up the issue to Shelby on the call
  - Shelby was not aware of the issue with splitting. She will look into and get to Jennifer.
- How you answer an inquiry (Perspective of Caregiver support team)
  - Can you walk us through the process of how an agent answers an inquiry (step-by-step)?
  - Is it possible to observe you answer an inquiry?
  - Jennifer: No we have already answered them at the moment but we can explain it to you
  - AVA leads (Jennifer included) assign ticket to ourselves. Not always the same person that does the reply. Download and save inquiries, social workers review response. SW email response back to team. AVA lead copy and past into response, then send it out
  - We process these a lot differently than most other AVA users
    - Why? - We have a dedicated team that pulls inquiries out for the rest of the team. Only select # of staff have access to AVA
- What makes it easier to answer an inquiry?
  - Jen - Having zipcode so helpful. Because getting inquiries nationwide and we try to give region-specific information. 
  - Mary agrees with Jen. This has been biggest thorn - consistent access to zipcode
- What makes it difficult?
  - Rerouting
    - Inquiries sent to us that we aren’t suited to answer
    - Finding a way for people to select best category/topic/sub-topic
    - Sometimes we don’t want to reroute inquiry we know has a bunch of inquiries waiting, so we answer to the best of our ability
    - Things get rerouting to us that shouldn’t be, inquiries that are supposed to come to us but don’t, submitters not choosing the correct topic
    - What % of inquiries you receive have reroute issue/spam/irrelevant? -> Spam is 10%, inappropriate reroute 40-50% it’s a daily occurrence that we’re correctly inappropriate reroutes
  - Spam
    - Is there a spam filter? Sometimes we get questionable emails, spam
  - Do people pick the wrong caregiver sub-topic?
    - Not an issue. Going to our mailbox either way. Didn’t know there were separate sub-topics.
    - Do you find value in the sub-topic? Not something our team references. Why we did it this was is more so on the submitter side, ensuring they were picking something specific. Help submitter know that we’re looking for things that relate to these programs
- How long does it usually take you to reply to an inquiry?
  - Typically average 1 day, internal policy is 5 business days. Challenge is 5 business days AFTER it gets to us. Because inquiries might be sitting in another queue
  - Are you comfortable with us stating that it takes up to 7 business days to reply to an inquiry
- Items that seem like they would belong to your LoB, but don’t (submitter questions you cannot answer): A lot of VBA
- What resources do you use to answer an inquiry?
  - Defined book of templates/responses (“Standard texts” in CRM), “manuals”
  - Will create response if it’s off the cuff
  - Very similar to resources our staff use to take calls and respond to calls
  - Group email that we use for replies
- Design review
  - Frustrating as a user to go through a bunch of pages
  - Is there a way to combine information, it seems excessive
- Wrap up
  - Thank you for hearing us out as well and being approachable
  - No other q’s/comments
  - If additional meetings - do it on Teams
