**Tell me how you use the personal information section of the site.**

To look at the tests I’ve had in the past. I am a recent volunteer at the Eerie VA, and I had to go my personal information to show them my immunization records. ordering medical supplies, but that might be a diff section. 

**If you had to update personal information with VA, how would you go about doing that?**

I believe it is under a profile tab. 

**Would you do that online or in person?**

I try to avoid doing anything in person and do everything online. 

*User logs in and shares screen. *

**Look at this personal information dropdown menu - what have you used in this list?**

I’ve used My profile and……I believe the download my data is where we put some of my files on a memory stick so we would have them. I know I’ve changed my password many times over the years. I can’t remember if the emergency contacts is set up, but it should have my wife in there. 

**Tell me how you’ve used the personal information page**

Just phone number, email and name were on here when I first set it up. Because nothing really changes, I don’t go into this page very often. It seems like a one time thing when setting up your account

**Did you notice the grey boxes?**

Yes

**Why do you think they are greyed out?**

I would think it was a security measure, or possibly those are boxes that have been visited?

**Which fields on this page are most important to you to be able to change?**

*Scrolls*

I don’t really think so unless you would want them to stop giving you appointment reminders. I have turned it on and off over time. The VA sends out a ton of emails. If you have an appointment 6 months down the road, you will probably get about 30 emails from the VA to remind you. 

**Is there anything surprising on this page?**

No. To me it seems pretty typical for a profile page. 

**Let’s review the What is your current relationship with VA field. I see there are some selections there. How did those get there?**

Those must have been automatic and put in by VA

**Would you find this section helpful to be able to update?**

I guess if I were to try to get employed by them, I would go in and update it and it would open other windows in MHV for me to look at. 

**Do you think there is any other purpose of this section?**

Not that I realize. It seems pretty standard. If I am using MHV, then I am probably a veteran and patient, so it seems unnecessary to me. 

**Now talk to me about the “My VA Treating facilities” option. What is that for?**

It looks like a history of every VA that I’ve used. I don’t know why I need to check a box because if it is on here then I’ve used them. 

I actively go to the top two options listed. 

[none of them are checked, but there are 3 listed]

**What is it like going to two separate facilities?**

They are about 100 miles apart. The Eerie VA (?) is my hub, but they are not very familiar with spinal cord injuries so I go to a more specialized location. 

**Do you have any difficulties managing two facilities?**

They don’t play well together. One is very hoity-toity, and the other feels lucky to give me an aspirin. It feels like they are in competition with each other.

**That must be difficult.**

I’m fine as long as I get treated successfully. It would be nice if they could reimburse my travel for the 100 miles though. 

**Have you ever tried applying for travel reimbursement?**

I don’t qualify because my injury is not military related. I hear differing opinions from different people at the VA, but at the end of the day, I never qualify. 

**Have you used online scheduling?**

I’ve used it to cancel. I want to give them as much advance notice as I can. I don’t really schedule a lot of appointments online though. They call me when they need me, so appointments get scheduled over the phone, and we schedule the next routine checkups at the end of each appointment. 

**Do you use Secure Messaging?**

Yes, very often. 

**Does it affect you when using Secure Messaging because you have multiple doctors and hospitals?**

No, it is very easy because you can pull up so many different locations and recipients. Calling these people is impossible, so Secure Messaging is much easier. 

**If you needed to update your address for prescriptions if you moved, what would you do?**

I would probably contact my spinal cord coordinator at the VA and make sure it is in their system. I think if I put it in this system now, if I went to a different doctor, they wouldn’t see the updates. I don’t think hospitals and this information in MHV are as connected as they should be. 

**In case of emergency section - If you were to fill it out, who could see it?**

Nobody. Maybe a Russian hacker. I don’t think it would ever be used by anyone. Maybe IT could see it. 

**Is it useful?**

No 

**Health Information Card - How, if at all do you use this page?**

I don’t use this page. It looks like a card you can fill out and put in your wallet, but if you are in an accident, I’m not sure the first person who comes up to you is going to rifle through your wallet to see who they should contact. I don’t think this is helpful to keep in your wallet. 

**My links -**

[Side note while waiting for page to load] By the way, I have a fancy computer and it is very fast, but this website is very slow. I imagine that navigating MHV for someone with a normal computer is a nightmare. [he did have a very fancy computer setup, complete with multiple monitors, a professional microphone, and filtered ring light.] 

**My links - Have you ever used this section?**

No

**Might be useful to you?**

I don’t think so. I don’t know what website I would want to link any VA employee to. Unless I’m not understanding the generic name, My Links?

**You can paste any link you wanted here. It could be health related or not, amazon, etc.**

Right, and if I would put a link in here for MHV, I’m sure that would just slow it down and it would be faster to just open it outside of MHV. 

**Do you think that if you put a link here, would it open in MHV?**

Yes, I think it would be behind the scenes, but run within MHV. 

**Explains card sort**

User asks to clarify what is meant by health care - thinks it is connected to insurance.

Power to attorney - I would need in any hospital for an emergency

*Puts it under health care*

Mailing address should be VA AND Health Care

*puts it in VA profile*

I’d put prescription notifications into my VA because they give me all my VA prescriptions.

I can’t say a fitbit is important because I am in a wheel chair and I don’t do a lot of physical activity

All notifications from VA is important because they change things 3x a day. 

Caregivers is only the VA’s concern

Email is so important because the VA is so hard to get ahold of via phone

I don’t relate to the concept of receiving payments from the VA

I don’t care who they share their information with. If someone is intrested in little ol’ me, they can have it. 

HIC - Again, if I’m injured or in an accidnt, the person going through my wallet is probably not looking for my health information. 

I don’t think a list of VA facilities is important, because I already don’t think they can communicate between themselves, and I am confident that I can walk into a facility anywhere in the world, I can be treated.

**Are you familiar with the 1098-B (?) tax form?**

No

**Explains - Where would you put it?**

Under  [va.gov](http://va.gov/)  because it is related to VA services. 

**anything else?**

No. Again, the MHV website is very slow and probably needs another IT team to beef it up. And if I knew that all VAs could see my information I would spend more time putting it in my profile so that I don’t have to waste time answering the same questions at every facility I go to. 

