# 
I go in there sometimes to just look at the doctors notes. Is that what you’re talking about?

**No, I’m talking about the place where they have your personal information, email address etc.**

Profile: they have your branch of service. Knowing that’s your account. That kind of helps me when I’m looking at that you know that’s my account. I actually help my dad with this too. 

**How would you make changes to your personal information?**
If I wanted to change anything, I would just go into the profile part, and do it that way.  It might be better if I just see it.

*Participant logs in, moderator asks to screen share and the review the Personal information menu*
**Take a look at that list and let me know if any look familiar to you.**

I have used download my data. I use that most of the time. I haven’t ever changed my password, probably should

**Go ahead and click on my profile and tell me how you use this page.****

If I wanted to change anything, *scrolling* I would just click on what ever I wanted to change and change it. 
I haven’t been in here a while.  Oh I do see something, *participant clicks facility checkboxes*

**Tell me about why you are checking those boxes.** 

I guess just incase I ever need records from there.  I don’t think I’ll ever have to but I might. It’s been a long time since I’ve been to [location] If I ever had to go to an outside doctor, it would give them authorization to see those records.

**Once you save this to your profile, what are your expectations about who will know about those changes?****
I would assume I get e-mailed saying that something changed and that information would go to the VA center too ,
 *saves profile and scrolls down*

**I understand you’ve been to two different facilities in the last 18 months. Is that right?****
No, I haven’t been to Ohio or Buffalo. Buffalo was 2007 Ohio was 2012 Pittsburgh withing the last 6months. 

**Do you know if those are Cerner facilities?****
not sure if they are cerner. 

**Do you ever use any of the online scheduling tools to schedule appointments online?**
Don’t use it to schedule appts. I have canceled appointments. When I did it, wasn’t really clear if it got canceled or not. It was kind of confusing for me. 

**Have you experienced any challenges about managing your health care across different facilities?**

Not really. It’s kind of a long ride, but I use the DAV they pick me up and take me to appointments.  It’s not challenging but it’s a long day.

**If you can scroll up further on the page, you’ll see some fields grayed out. Why are those boxes grayed out?** 

Mostly because it is confidential . If someone was able to get into my account they’d be able to see my SSN.

**What about for your name?** 

I am not sure why it is highlightsed. It does help me able to see. 

**What is important for you to be able to update on this page?**
I don’t see anything else right now. I don’t think I need to change anything.

**There’s another field I wanted to talk to you about. What is your current relationship to VA. I see there are some selections there - how did those get there?**

I think I checked those when I set up my account. 

**How does it help you to be able to update that?**

It shows me that I am a veteran. Other than that I am not sure how it helps me. I guess if someone was taking care of my account they could go in there. 

**How would VA use that information, do you think?****

 VA would know who was my caregiver. They could release information.

**If you moved, where would you go to update your address for prescriptions?****

*scrolls up and down* I don’t see anything there. If I had do, using this page itself…

**Just anywhere, if you had to update that information?** 

I would contact the VA. I would call them. I would start with eligibility area. Or the pharmacy.  I think eligibility would be the first place I’d go, and I’d call.

**Can you click on In case of emergency and tell me about how you have used this page?** 
I added my wife and my son . If I wanted to add anyone else, I could just click add. Pretty much everything is right there.

**How does it help you to be able to update this?****

It is good because then I know who is going to be contacted incase of emergency. 

**Who can see these emergency contacts in your account?** 

I can see it and VA can see it.

**Please click on the Health information card link and tell me about how you’ve used this page in the past, if at all:** 

I looked at it once butI have never done anything with it. Never printed it out or anything. I guess because with a smart phone if I needed it I could pull it up. 

*Moderator explains emergency contacts are only available here.*

When I check in at the VA they have a spot to update my emergency contact.  That’s separate from this, for sure. That’s in the kiosk. This card probably is a good thing to have and print it out. Like if I got in a car accident, you got your wallet and the emergency officals or police can look in your wallet. Most of the time if something happens they’re going to look in your wallet.  

I don’t really look at these things. I really don’t use all the features that are there, so it is nice to have them pointed out. 

**Go ahead and click on My links and tell me how you have ever used this information.**
 Never used it. I know it’s there, I’ve just never done that. I am not tracking my health. If I wanted to I could go in there and do my blood pressure for a couple days and add it in there.

**Click on the Add new button and see how you can fill this out. Is that what you expected?**

Not really no.

**Now that you see that, is that something that’d be useful to you?** 
*Hesitates.* It could be. It could be.  

**Can you tell me more about how it would be useful to you?****
Well, not really. I’m not really sure about this. I’m kind of lost. I apologize.

**No problem. You’re kind of lost, is it unclear to you what this does?****

Yeah, like the http - is it kind of like a website deal? I know what that means, it’s secure, but I don’t know what information would be transferred into that.

*Moderator explains functionality*

Oh! That is not what I thought! *laughs* At all.  I thought it was like input your blood pressure, blood sugar levels.  That is good. I could put certain yoga and meditation sites in there. 

*Move onto sorting activity.* 

Power of attorney I would like to have it on my profile.  SoI don’t have to look it up. Can you put these into two different ones?

*Moderator explains*

My health care, is that something the VA sees?

**What would you expect?**

Um, just my stuff. Not like my profile.

**So you’re thinking of profile as stuff VA sees?** 
Yes.
Next of kin in profile so that I can change it.

*Participant finishes card sort*

**I have a couple of follow up questions. Tell me about why facilites goes in profile instead of health care.****
That way the VA can see that also.  And I know their records show, but I also know that if I’m going to the [location] VA hospital, and say I go to another one, there have been times that they can’t see my records that [location] has. It doesn’t make any sense. It would be good for them to be able to see that I was at that facility.  If for instance once it was a dental issue and the [location] had my records, and the other one could see them, and they had to do all my X-rays and images again.
I think it is important for me to have those in that category.

**I noticed that you put caregivers under health care vs profile. Can you tell me more about that? ****
For me, I think the VA should know that also. They should know who my caregiver is. *hesitates. sighs.* Most all my care is through the VA.  So if I had an outside caregiver, I think it would be important for them to see that. 

**Are there any here that you’d put into two categories if you could?**
The caregiver one I would put in 2 categories. *Hesitates.* Uh, I know my blood type. *Reading*. Mmm, no I don’t really see any others.

**Go ahead and click finished I the upper right corner of the screen and we can save this. That concludes everything I wanted to go through with you today. Do you have any questions or comments you haven’t had a chance to discuss yet?****

No, I hope I helped. Sometimes when I am talking sometimes, I get confused on things easily, I hope I helped out.

**Absolutely, it’s so insightful for our team to get feedback, especially since you use the VA and the health system. It’s so helpful for our team.**
