# My HealtheVet Personal Information Discovery Research -P14 Notes
4/4/22

**how do you use the personal information section?** 
Um, is that the records or something?

**That’s where you’d find your contact info, etc.** 
Truthfully, I’ve looked at it one time when I created the account and when I moved.

**How do you update personal information with the VA?** 
 I do as much as I can on MHV. If I need anythign differently, like when I turn 65, I use DEERS.

**You use digital tools rather than calling?** 
 Yes, right.

[participant logs into MHV]

[moderator directs user to click on Persnoal Information link] 

**How have you used an of these sections?** 
 I’ve done the My Accounts, My Emergency Contact. I’ve often wondered what Download my Data is. and I’ve seen the Personal Information

**What do you use access My Account for?** 
 I don’t remember, it’s been a while

[user cliks into My Account]. I’ve done it once to change my password, just look in to see what’s there

The big one is Emergency Contact is important to me. 

**Why?** 
 I want to make sure it’s accurate. Sometimes I’m dealing with elderly folks in my home, and discovered one of them, when he went in the hospital, his emergency contact was someone that had been dead for several years….So experience, is why I want to check it out. 

[moderator directs user to click on Personal Information link] 

**Tell me about how you use this page?** 


This is just an identifier, to double check..poking around to see what it is. I’ve been in the system since 2017, is when I really engaged in MHV. I went in there and checked and make sure everything is current and up todate. I try to go in here at least once a year just to check it. Sometimes the world of technology can do this automagically. Pretty much everything is here that I’d expect it to be.

**Which of these fields are important for you to be able to change?** 

One of the things that’s very importnat to me is medical reports. The first itme I’ve really use it, or used the BlueDot (BlueButton) as well, was when I went in to change my rating. I pulled a lot of records from there for that. I don’t like the way the medical records are displayed, separate topic, but it’s very cumbersome. As far as if you do an office visit, you should see it. But the way it’s PDFed, it’s just a big run on. And sorting my date, is fictious, you still get a lot of non-specifiied dates. Also used it for applying for SSDI, which is where that run on format is cumbersome, almost literally useless. 

For example, our coaches [whole health?], half my conversatoin with my coach is on the page. And I feel like it could hinder me with applications like SS, because she could ask me how I’m doing today and I’m having a good day, but there it is

The [perscription] refill is important

Honestly, the VA appt reminder is useless, it doesn’t work under MHV anymore. I think it’s part of the transition to the new MHV, the VA.gov website. This disserves the patient, because we use the reminders, but you can’t see it.

**So you can’t see the reminder in your email?**

In the email it comes in find, but because of where it extracts it’s data from, it doesn’t have all your appointments there. If you go into the regular main page of VA.gov, and do an update, it’ll tell you “some of your appts may be missing”. So, it’s become useless. 

**My VA treating facilities, what is this for?** 
 In my case, all those other ones I’ve been to.. I moved around a little before I got out. My current records are at the [checkboxed facility], where I do my transactions at. However, when I pull my BlueDot (BlueButton) and you’d think you’d get your [current facility] only, I get all the others.

**Is that surprising to you?** 
 Not surprising, but I’d think that if I check [locale] facility, it’d bring up just my [locale] records

**Do you use secure messaging?** 
 Yes, absolutely

Do you see these other facilities selected when sending messages? No, I don’t. Only [locale]

**Talk to me about “your relationship to the VA”. What does that mean to you?** 
 I would think for me, the only category is Veteran, and VA patient. I know that there are caregivers and other, maybe..I don’t see anything that’d be of help for me as far as VA employee. There might be CHAMP beneficiaries that have authority to look at other accounts ,but I don’t see why VA employee… I guess maybe they could have their own profile? That shouldn’t be in my record. [user seemed to think that a provider or employee might be able to see this in his account?]

**How does the VA use this info in your profile?** 
I think it’d be a tag or flag to be caution about who they’re dealing with. 

**If you moved, where would you update your address for Rx?** 
 I’d definitely go into the profile and make sure my address is properly reflected in the profile.

**In this profile here?** 
Yes, and I think it’s my responsibility to go to the eligibility office as well, but not sure

**Do you see address on this page?** 
 [user scrolls]..Yeah, I didn’t remember seeing it.

**If you didn’t see it here, you’d go to the eligbility office?** 
Yeah, I would.

I know you can change your address in DEERS. I’ve done it in ebenefits, before too.

**Is ebenefits tied to your Rx?** 
 No.. I think you can do it on VA.gov too. I don’t think it’s user friendly

**Say more?** 
 When you log in, you see four action boxes. They’re good if you’re looking for those things specificlaly, but if looking for something else, you need to go to search and hope you know the right term for what you’re searching for

**When you go to VA.gov the boxes don’t have what you’re looking for?** 
No. Frankly the layout of ebenefits is one of the better layouts I’ve seen. Even MHV isn’t bad. it’s straightforward.  [VA.gov](http://va.gov/)  frustrates me everytime I go to look for something.

[moderator directs user to In Case of emergency section]
**Talk to me about ow you’ve used this page?** 
I just want to make sure my point of contact is up to date and proper. It’s important thing for me.

[moderator directs to click on health info card]
**How have you used this page before?**
I’ve looked at it and never did anything more with it. Again, looking at emergency contact info. Never really used it.

**Useful to have here?** 
Not really, no value added to me.

[moderator explained how one page worked and whether info was shared to VA or not]

[moderator directs user to My Links]

**How do you use this page?** 
 I’ve never used this page.

**How might it be useful to you?** 
[user cliks on Add New link button] I guess you could…for someone not computer savvy, it could be some type of benefit? .. For my this does nothing

[moderator moves to sorting activity]

[moderator explains sorting activity]

[user clarifies some of the card text] self-entered, does that mean the info won’t be available in a secure message?

I see all the providers I work with in secure messaging, so, the use for that is for me to send a secure message to.

**So a list of providers on it’s own..?** 
 Not something for me to create, not important to me

I like to get when perscriptions are being sent to me.

Maybe if I have more than one facility local, this [list of VA facilities] might be more important to me

**Caregivers, is that as in VA caregivers or outside caregivers?** 
Either one.
[user creates new category called “good to know”]

Apps = I kind of like to know if there’s info being shared from MHV to that. Keeping in mind, a lot of the apps on the VA website are also third party apps, so would expect some sharing to be done, would expect those to only be what info I’ve given.

**Ok got it.**
Email address, my profile. I don’t need to see that every time I log in, on my front page. Same thing with [blood type] this is something I already know, but if I have brain fog or something I could find it.

Notification settings for general updates could be a loaded thing. Is this, as I call “hash and trash” from the VA, or is this medically pertinent to me?

**Those would be general updates, that apply to every single veteran**

*Places card in Not Important to me column*

The reason why is that only if there’s changes to the layout, or logging in, I would expect that to be in a banner on the top of the page. But there could be something interesting like a new class for Drive to Thrive or something like that.

This is a funny one, because I just asked about the FitBit last week. I have a FitBit issued by the VA and I asked where vin my records is this showing up? And the answer was they’re still working on it. It’s not visible to my doctor.

**Well, let’s imagine that it is available then, where would you want to manage that connection**

That’d be in my healthcare. Next of Kin would be in my profile. *Moves Printable health information card to Good to Know group* The reason why is that I’ve never had a use for it, I don’t tend to lose things, I’ve never lost anything other the one time in the service they stole my wallet. 

My non-VA health insurance, to me, is irrelevant. I’m 100%. To other Veterans I think it would be important because there is cross-charging, so, I don’t know, for me personally, it’s not important.

**There’s one other item - are you familiar with 1095 tax form? Where would you put that if it was on a card?**
I’d put it in the profile. It’s not something I access daily.

**If this was a website, where would you expect to find this Good to Know section you created?** 
It’d be in a drop down, kind out of the way. You want the reltiyy of the website in your face but the ability to get other essential things.

**Those were all the pages and website I wanted to look at. Do you have any other comments you haven’t had ac chance to share yet?**

I have a lot of concerns with the new VA.gov and it’s display. I think it’s busy. But it’s busy with what they want, they being the developers, or, want to display. But it doesn’t fit the reality of the actual patient, the actual Veteran. You know, I just find it, that the white and blue, all jumbled in those little 4 cards, is just more distracting than it is of interest. When you look at eBenefits, it has some color, some appeal. Actually, the first time I saw VA.gov, I was taken back to the days where you had the green screens, the UNIX type screens, with the background and green letters. It was boring and hard to focus on. I am a scrum master, so my background is scrum master, as well as an engineer, so a lot of times we lose focus on what - we say this will look cool, but we forget the actual end user.

**Tell me more about what isn’t matching the needs of the user on VA.gov**

It’s the fact that these are the only options.  And the first time I used it, I was like, wow, we don’t have access to all the stuff. And they’re literally forcing you to use the search. I was looking for something, and I was just flustered until I saw the little search up top, and I thought, maybe I ought to search this. But if I don’t know the term, it’s kind of like looking for a needle in a haystack. And not all Vets are, well we still ahve a lot of Vets that aren’t computer savvy, and as well as some people have issues with focusing, and things of that nature. And even visually impaired. That menu, that screen, is just haunting for visually impaired people.

**What improvements would you make?**

I think there should be more white space. And the font is truthfully very small. You have to cram in those specific things on those 4 little cards. And to me, it’s more in your face distracting, than it is helpful. Even MHV, the way it’s laid out, is more, you know, inviting to the user. And when you, you said, you go to the site and you see all those links and you have to end up using the search to find what you’re looking for. 

**Instead of the links that are there, what would you want to see when you log in, or when you get to the site.** 

For example, forms. A radio button or a drop down, forms or something. A link to forms, you can go there, and you can be more specific about what you’re looking for to separate them. A link to a separate page with forms.

I’m trying to think, appointments. I’ve got to sort through those 4 little boxes or whatever, where appointments are. It just isn’t - I always used to tell my folks, when you do a website, it needs to be in your face for the key things. It just, it really, to me, is a step backwards.

**Well, that’s very helpful to know, I really appreciate you sharing all that with the team. I’ll certainly pass that feedback along. Do you have any questions for me before we wrap up?**
No.
