# My HealtheVet Personal Information Discovery Research - P15 Notes
4/4/22

**Confirms that participant is comfortable recording**

**I know you have a My HealtheVet account**

**Can you tell me how you use the personal information section of the site?**

The personal information section…I am not really familiar with that. I use it mainly for to check my medications and appointments…

**Got it**

Would that be considered the personal section? 

**Those are not part of the section you are talking about and that’s fine…**

**If you had to update your personal information with VA…Like your email address, phone number, how do you go about doing that?**

I would update at when I do the check in, at the VA…I did have an experience where I updated the information on My HealtheVet. However, it did not update with the VA kiosk. 

They still had my old mailing address so I am not sure where the disconnect came in

**Okay, Now you would update at the kiosk when you checked in?**

Right, right 

**Got it. That makes sense.**

**Now I’d like to take a look at My HealtheVet with you and get your thoughts on the personal information section of the site. Can you go ahead and login, and then share your screen once you are logged in?**

Sure. I was just on it this morning so…Okay, I am logged in

**[Screen sharing directions - unable to share screen - Moderator and participant describe what they were seeing and use the collaboration tool (for card sort) to allow the participant to draw on screen**

**You are on My HealtheVet?**

Yes

**Let’s go to the personal information section of the site. I believe show you a drop down menu. Are you seeing that?**

Yes, where it says…home, personal information, yes 

**Take a look at the sections listed under personal information - before clicking on anything, I’d like to know how you’ve used any of these sections before.**

No, I am not

**Okay, let’s go ahead and look at the Profile page. Click on my profile. Talk to me how you use that. I am going to get the staging account set up while you talk**

The only thing I use it for is changing a password. 

**Okay, I am going to share my screen.**

**Here is the profile page. It will be helpful to hop through what we see here. You said you used change password.**

**Anything on this part of the screen that you ever changed before? Do you see on my screen?**

Yes, yes. 

**Anything here you used before?**

Prescription refills, shipment notifications, VA appointment reminders 

**So you use this to manager the notification here?**

Yes

**Okay, any other parts of the page that you used before?**

No, I have not really used it 

**Okay, anything you see that is important and helpful to update and change?**

The prescription and appointment information 

**Can you share why that is important to you?**

Well, the notification that let me know when my prescriptions are coming available. And the appointments [inaudible] because I have a lot of different appointments with the VA and sometimes its too cumbersome to remember all of them

**I am sure it is helpful to get a reminder…**

**There are a couple fields I wanted to get your feedback on? If you look at my screen it says, what is my relationship with VA? Do you see what I am referring to? Do you see this list of checkboxes here?**

Yes, yes. 

**Which boxes are check in your profile?**

Veteran and VA patient 

**And how did those get checked?**

I checked them

**And how did it help you, if at all, to be able to update this…to check those boxes or uncheck them?**

Once they are checked once they should be permanent. There is nothing else there that applies to me. I would not need to go in and change anything else

**How does VA use this info from these check boxes?**

For verification purposes 

**At which point, when do they need to verify that?**

When you are coming in for care…That’s about the only thing I can think of

**I am going to have you scroll down further down the page to the bottom, there is a section called My VA treating facilities. How many facilities do you have on your list?**

I have got three

**What does this list or what are these check boxes for?**

This shows you where you have your where they have your medical records

**Are your boxes checked or unchecked?**

Unchecked

**All three of them?**

Yes. 

**What does that mean if they are unchecked?**

That they are not available there but they can be 

**If you check the box, what do you expect to happen?**

That the Great Lakes health care should be able to pull up your records 

**It gives them permissions to see the records?**

Yes, yes 

**And how does it help you, if at all, to be able to update the check boxes?**

If you go to these facilities, that should be able to pull your medical records up if you have that checked but I am thinking maybe it needs a few more options to check - Perhaps a pull down list of the different VAs. In case, lets say, you are at a conference for a week and need the VA in Iowa City…I am from Georgia, and I am in Atlanta, I would want to go to the VA with no issues

**And do you go to all three in facilities listed in your account?**

No, no. I have New Jersey listed which is about 600 miles away. VA Central plains new york. 

**and you mentioned the Great Lakes?**

The Great lakes, that’s within the area

**Is that where you go now to receive care?**

No, I go to Henze VA

**Why do you not think that’s not listed there?**

Because am thinking it’s central record. I am thinking Heinze has access to my information through this website so it wouldn’t need to be there

**Moving on from facilities feature. If you moved where would you go to update address for your prescriptions?**

I would go up to the top where it’s got the identification information…well, I did see address somewhere. 

**I can’t see your screen are you still looking for it?**

Yeah, yeah - I am looking for it. You would go to your personal, my account…

**You would expect to update it there?**

Yes 

**if you couldn’t find it in this section, what would you do next?**

Umm, I guess I would, if I was using as my primary source of updating I would call the number for the help desk

**Now let’s go to the in case of emergency page**

This is where you would put your point of contacts in case of emergency 

**Have you used it?**

No, I haven’t. It’s blank

**Who do you think can see this if you put somewhere in there?**

This should be able to see nationwide - I would think - if they have access to your account 

**Nationwide meaning all your locations across the country?**

Right, all the VAs across the country. if you indicated that information should be shared

**If you added someone. you would have to, you would need to indicate that someone else could see that information?**

Right 

**How might it be useful to you? To be able to do this**

Really useful. Right now, I know my provider can go in indicate if I am going to be in certain area, they can do it themselves 

**They can update emergency contacts?**

Well, they can update the general account information where they have different locations 

**I see, I see**

I know my provider, she has done it for someone that winters in FL. She make sure they are able to go to the VA down there with no problem 

**Now let’s go to the health information card. Tell me how have you used this??**

It looks like blood type, email address. alretate insurance sources - this is hwrew that information would be found

**Have you ever used this card?**

No, I haven’t

**This is a printable card. Is that something that is useful to you?**

No, because I don’t have alternative sources of insurance 

**Now let’s go to the my links page. How do you use this page? Tell me about how you use this page, if at all?**

This is the place where you put information on your medications

**On this my links page?**

Yeah, like instructions for medication. Alternative VA sites that you go to. Like different types of sites for VA resources

**And is this something that would be useful, to save that information?**

Yes, yes. All you have to do is click on that link 

**Can you tell me how you might use that?**

It would be a quick source if you are looking for information. If you needed to find something. All you have to do is pull My HealtheVet up and you have the links. And all you have to do is click on that link

**Thank you for sharing. That is super helpful.**

**I am going to pull up a website and see if you are able to control my screen…[Not able to control but able to draw on screen]**

No, just the actually page 

**I am going to talk you through this. You can guide me [explains sorting activity]**

**On the left, we have various cards with information you might recognize from the My HealtheVet pages we just reviewed…[Instructions for card sort]**

**Which place would you place this into [Non-VA health insurance Info]**

Let’s see. That’s my “Non-VA health insurance Info” - I would put that in Not important 

How about mailing address? 

My profile. That seems like the logical place. For my mailing address 

**I remember you saying that you don’t have other insurance**

**How about mailing address?**

My profile. 

**And if you can talk aloud that would be helpful too**

Okay, well it is the logical pace to put your mailing address. 

**and how about Caregivers?**

Caregivers?? That’s not important to me at the moment 

**Okay, your Birthday?**

My VA profile 

**Emergency contact?**

My VA profil also… that could go in both the health care - both of them

**Can’t put into both but please let me know when that comes up - which would you choose?**

My healthcare

**Why there vs the other one?**

My health care is where you should have your prescription information, blood type, all your medical information, in case of emergency, that would seem like a logical place to look, to see the emergency point of contact…

**How about providers and doctors**

My VA health care

**Notifications setting for a scheduled payment…**

What was the last box?

**That says test group. We can create another group…**

Maybe benefits??

**Okay. Your power of attorney?**

My health care and also want it in my VA profile 

**Why is that?**

First they should go to my healthcare for any medical concerns. And if it was my healthcare, they would have access 

**How about your blood type?**

My health care 

**Next of kin?**

My profile 

**Notifications setting for general updates from the VA…**

Benefits 

**Notification for my healthevet newsletter**

Let’s see…Go with My health care 

**Principle wallet Health information card?**

My profile 

**Your email address?**

My profile 

**A list of VA facilities where you receive health care**

My healthcare 

**List of apps that share info from your VA profile…**

Right, right…I am not sure about that one 

**We can skip that one for right now**

**The ability to Connect your health tracking device, like a the fitbit?**

My healthcare 

**Notifications settings for perceptions updates?**

My health care 

I would put the apps in my health care also

**One question I have, I am curious about the principle wallet health info card, Can you share with me your thoughts with grouping it under profile instead of health care**

I look at the profile card as personal information, email address, insurance company, umm, your emergency contact

**So, that doesn’t really belong you are saying?**

Right, right. 

**I am going to go ahead a click finish and save these results**

**is there anything you would like to comment on that we haven’t discussed?**

Some websites, they have a little dot, that you can increase the size, that would be very helpful to increase the font size

**That’s really good feedback. I am guessing the font size is too small for you?**

Yeah, yeah, yeah. I have heard that comment. some of the issues with MyHealtheVet. That is a VA wide problem. Accessibility 

**Are there more issues that you have seen other than font size?**

No, as long as it’s test compatible with cell phones. A lot of the blind Vets use their cell phone. And the VA uses Apple. And Apple makes application pretty acceptable. Some people have had problems operating MyHealtheVet on their cell phones. It would prob be good to talk to the totally blind they pretty much suvice off using their iPhone. They can talk to it so that would be helpful 

**Do you know anyone that is blind that would be willing to participate?**

**Taking through recurring blind participants**

It looks like blood type, email address. alretate insurance sources - this iswhere that informationw ould be found

**I will send a blurb you can share**

Have you done any work with the Blind Veteran Society? 

**That would be so helpful**

**Thank you for sharing. That is super valuable**

Bye 

