# My HealtheVet Personal Information Discovery Research - P3 notes
3/30/22

Personal information..honestly most of the personal information stuff is locked out, like name and stuff like that, because DoD gets it from the government. So I don’t really use that section a lot. The time I looked in it last was to ensure a legal name change went through…I know there are tools on there that, if you want ot update your address, or have your doctors, you can print out a card with that. That’s pretty much all I remember.
**seeing grayed out stuff?** It’s annoying [to make updates to personal info]. You have to go to eligibility and bring a bunch of documents, other than a change of address. I think you need two forms. 

**How do you do that?** You have to go in person, to a VA or VA hospital.
Oh shoot, I hope this didn’t log me out [tried to log in before screensharing but it logged her out between logging in and sharing screen]

**Does that happen a lot?** Yes…not a lot, since there’s an adroid app that I can use on my phone. But it generally happens on an iPad since if you leave the page, it makes you log in again.
[logged in and CSS was broken on MHV]

**Are these links familiar to you?**Yeah, I have. 

**Which ones?** I’ve updated the incase of emergency, change my password, and download my data
[directed by moderator to clikc on profile, clicks on my profile]
[moderator logged into test account and did screensharing instead]

**How would you use this [profile page]?**
**Have you used this in your own account before?** Yeah, I have. The..When I firrst got my account, and they approved me, I might have updated this stuff, like the welcome bar stuff. And I have changed this in the past in regards to the email notifications and reminders. Because at one point I wasn’t getting emails from the pharmacy saying my medications were on the way, and I realized that the option I selected was off for the Rx refill notifications. 

**Just stop me if there are other parts you’ve used or updated in your profile.** No, nothing else.

**If you needed to update your mailing address, where would you update that?**um… I would say within this section, when you scroll all the way to the top and it asks for your address. Yeah, here, the contact information…well..I’m not sure.

**Since you don’t see that here, how would yo do it?** I would call the VA facility I’m part of and ask to speak with either eligivility or pharmacy to see if they can update the address over the phone. 

**Which fields are important for you to be able to update or change?** Maybe your relationship to the VA, say if you become a cargiver for somebody, you’d update that. If you got married, or divorced.. your birthdate doesn’t change..

**Why is that important ot update?**Sometimes you get specialized newsletter. If you’re a Veteran it’s geared towards Veterans…whatever you select is slightly related to whatever biweekly newsletter you get

**Why is marriage status important to share with the VA?** If you’re doing a means evaluation, you want them to only use your income if you’re divorced, for instance.
When you put how would you like to be addressed, I like that they put that in there, especially for a name change. that helps. The only thing I wish they’d update or put in that section is pronouns. For instance, my doctor will put in one set of pronouns for somebody, and then it won’t be on there..it’s in the official record but you don’t see it immediately, you have to dig to find it.

**If you save pronouns here, who would see this?**As far as I know, somebody who’s treating you at the VA. Or if you go to a walk in clinic, they will look at your demographics. When I downlaoded my data to look at my health records there’s a page in front that has your demographics on there. As far as I know, that’s the first screen that somebody sees. That does connect. 

**What is this for?** I know there are people that get treatment at both the [locale] VA and the [locale] VA. I imagine that connects to pharmacy, to appts, also if you call central scheduling, to help you with making an appt.

 **Helps you designate where you’ll get services?** Right. and if you decide to discontinue service from your secondary VA facility, it’s my understanding you can check uncheck that, but technically you’re supposed to let your main facility know. 
As far as I know, just unchecking it and saving it will discontinue service. But you might have to update that verbally next time, too

**Emergency contact page, how do you use it?** I added my husband as the ICE contact. This info goes on the front page [of the medical record]

**Which record, how do you get it, from the blue button?**Correct. 

**Who else can see this emergency contact info?**I don’t know, honestly. I would like to assume that a clinician could see it… That it’d be part of your chart. But that’s a guess. 

**Health information, how have you used this page?** I don’t think I did, because I didn’t want to, I’ll be honest. Because I already have my VIC card, the one that scans. So it seemed kind of redundant to have that. Since everything is computerized, didn’t seem like a valuable thing to me

**My Links, how have you used this page before?** I don’t htink I’ve ever used thi spage?

**What is it for, now that you’re seeing it?** Maybe to link health records? Like if you’re being treated [locale] and they have MyChart? But usually you can’t put a link, because they are timed, and they expire. VA recently sent out waivers that you could sign so you could share electronic health records between the VA and vice versa with EPIC. So I could see using it at that time. 
[moved on to sorting activity]
[moderator explains activity]
[participants starts dragging cards around]

**Organize the cards in a way that makes sense to you. And think aloud.** 

**For profile, that’s something that VA or healthcare providers can see?**Yes

Caregivers go in healthcare cause that makes sense to me. Self entered providers can go in the profile, if you’re incapacitated, they can see your outside doctors if you can’t tell them. Same with emergency contacts
Email address, profile, that’s just part of your information. Same with mailing address. 
Notifications settings for MHV, My health care
I’d say [missed the card] is an overlap. 

**Why?**It should be in your profile, but at the same time it should be in your health care section. 
Non-VA health info, probably also a overlap, but should be in your profile in case they need to run your insurance
Shipping updates, that should go in your profile since it should be easily accessible
Notifications for payments, don’t need that in your face, so that should go in healthcare
List of apps, I would say healthcare

**Thinking about a couple of items, like notifications settings for general VA updates and scheduled payments under healthcare, because you don’t want them in your face. I’m curious, why healthcare versus a separate category vs not important to me?**
Because payments are important, but it’s not appropriate for a provider to see how much you owe. Because that could put a cast, like, oh they’re not paying their copays, and htat could alter their perception of you if that the first time they’re meeting you

**General updates from VA?** Important, but not important enough to be on the main screen.
**Profile is your main screen on  ** [VA.gov?](http://va.gov/?) Right. **And health section is just for you?**Right.
[participant had no other thoughts]

Participant: do you know if Perigean is doing paypal instead of checks? Sometimes it takes longer now to get it, and I’ve had to get checks replaced because they got lost. 
end session
