.github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE/DRAFT-Architecture-Intent.md, before:

---
name: DRAFT Collaboration Cycle / Architecture Intent
about: DRAFT - do not use - Template for Architecture Intent
title: 'Architecture Intent for [Team Name, Product Name, Feature Name]'
labels: collaboration-cycle
assignees: ''

---

## About Architecture Intent 

The [Architecture Intent touchpoint](https://depo-platform-documentation.scrollhelp.site/collaboration-cycle/architecture-intent) is a synchronous half-hour discussion surrounding the architectural decisions that impact the engineering and security posture of the product you are building or iterating on.

## Before the meeting
  
### :one: VFS team: schedule the meeting
- [ ] Review [Architecture Intent Guidance](https://depo-platform-documentation.scrollhelp.site/collaboration-cycle/architecture-intent) to understand what this touchpoint involves.
- [ ] Schedule your Architecture Intent (with at least 2 business days lead time from now):
  - Open the [Calendly Architecture intent calendar](https://calendly.com/collaboration-cycle/architecture-intent)
  - Select a date and time and click "Confirm"
  - Add your name and email
  - Click "Add Guests" and enter the email addresses for VFS team attendees
  - Click "Schedule Event"

### :two: VFS team: add links to artifacts at least 2 days before the meeting
Link all artifacts **at least two business days** before the scheduled Architecture Intent. Please don't add artifacts in the comments section. [See guidance on Architecture Intent artifacts.](https://depo-platform-documentation.scrollhelp.site/collaboration-cycle/architecture-intent#ArchitectureIntent-Whatartifactswillbeneeded?)
Feedback is based on the artifacts provided here as well as information provided during the meeting. 

Required:
- [ ] Link your completed [Engineering and Security Checklist](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team-sensitive/blob/master/platform/engineering/collaboration-cycle/architecture-intent/checklist/eng-sec-checklist.md)
- [ ] [User data flow diagram](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team-sensitive/blob/master/platform/practices/zero-silent-failures/how-to-create-a-user-data-flow-diagram.md), if your application accepts data from a user.

## During the meeting

[What to expect during a Architecture Intent.](https://depo-platform-documentation.scrollhelp.site/collaboration-cycle/architecture-intent#ArchitectureIntent-WhathappensduringtheArchitectureIntent?)


## After the meeting
  
### Platform Team actions

- Platform Engineering and Security will provide feedback via comments on this Collaboration Cycle Request ticket by EOD the next business day after the meeting
- VFS teams should expect to receive at least 1 comment from Platform Engineering and 1 comment from Platform Security

### VFS team actions

- [ ] Review feedback. Respond to the comment on this ticket if there are any questions or concerns.

## :clipboard: Collaboration Cycle feedback
[Complete Collaboration Cycle feedback survey](https://ows.io/qs/o3jkwoez) at any point during your Collaboration Cycle process.

Commit message:

Update feedback process in Architecture Intent template
updated some verbiage re: ticket names and who to expect feedback from

.github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE/DRAFT-Architecture-Intent.md, after:

---
name: DRAFT Collaboration Cycle / Architecture Intent
about: DRAFT - do not use - Template for Architecture Intent
title: 'Architecture Intent for [Team Name, Product Name, Feature Name]'
labels: collaboration-cycle
assignees: ''

---

## About Architecture Intent 

The [Architecture Intent touchpoint](https://depo-platform-documentation.scrollhelp.site/collaboration-cycle/architecture-intent) is a synchronous half-hour discussion surrounding the architectural decisions that impact the engineering and security posture of the product you are building or iterating on.

## Before the meeting
  
### :one: VFS team: schedule the meeting
- [ ] Review [Architecture Intent Guidance](https://depo-platform-documentation.scrollhelp.site/collaboration-cycle/architecture-intent) to understand what this touchpoint involves.
- [ ] Schedule your Architecture Intent (with at least 2 business days lead time from now):
  - Open the [Calendly Architecture intent calendar](https://calendly.com/collaboration-cycle/architecture-intent)
  - Select a date and time and click "Confirm"
  - Add your name and email
  - Click "Add Guests" and enter the email addresses for VFS team attendees
  - Click "Schedule Event"

### :two: VFS team: add links to artifacts at least 2 days before the meeting
Link all artifacts **at least two business days** before the scheduled Architecture Intent. Please don't add artifacts in the comments section. [See guidance on Architecture Intent artifacts.](https://depo-platform-documentation.scrollhelp.site/collaboration-cycle/architecture-intent#ArchitectureIntent-Whatartifactswillbeneeded?)
Feedback is based on the artifacts provided here as well as information provided during the meeting. 

Required:
- [ ] Link your completed [Engineering and Security Checklist](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team-sensitive/blob/master/platform/engineering/collaboration-cycle/architecture-intent/checklist/eng-sec-checklist.md)
- [ ] [User data flow diagram](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team-sensitive/blob/master/platform/practices/zero-silent-failures/how-to-create-a-user-data-flow-diagram.md), if your application accepts data from a user.

## During the meeting

[What to expect during a Architecture Intent.](https://depo-platform-documentation.scrollhelp.site/collaboration-cycle/architecture-intent#ArchitectureIntent-WhathappensduringtheArchitectureIntent?)


## After the meeting
  
### Platform Team actions

- Platform Engineering and Security will provide feedback via comments on this Architecture Intent ticket by EOD the next business day after the meeting
- VFS teams should expect to receive at least 1 comment from Platform Engineering for frontend, backend and/or devops, and 1 comment from Platform Security

### VFS team actions

- [ ] Review feedback. Respond to the comment on this ticket if there are any questions or concerns.

## :clipboard: Collaboration Cycle feedback
[Complete Collaboration Cycle feedback survey](https://ows.io/qs/o3jkwoez) at any point during your Collaboration Cycle process.
