.github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE/project-kickoff.md, before:

---
name: Project Kickoff
about: Request to Schedule a Project Kickoff 
title: Project Kickoff [Feature-Name]
labels: product support, content-ia-team
assignees: andreahewitt-odd, meganhkelley

---

## Steps to complete Project Kickoff
- [ ] Product Manager: using this template, create issue and fill in feature name in the title and other bolded information appropriately
- [ ] Assign issue to yourself and @meganhkelley and @andreahewitt-odd 
- [ ] Link to this issue once created in #vfs-platform-support in Slack; tag @ Megan Kelley @ AndreaHewitt
- [ ] Andrea and Megan to schedule meeting with VSP reviewers and **requesting team** attendees (as listed below)
- [ ] VSP <> **requesting team** review meeting completed

## Artifacts - _please bring the following to the kickoff meeting_
- Product brief/outline (draft)
- Explanation of the problem space
- Any other artifacts you have so far

## Meeting attendees from **requesting team**
- Product Manager: _name_
- DEPO Lead: _name_

## Scheduling
Preferred dates or times:

Commit message:

Added regression test plan to artifacts

.github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE/project-kickoff.md, after:

---
name: Project Kickoff
about: Request to Schedule a Project Kickoff 
title: Project Kickoff [Feature-Name]
labels: product support, content-ia-team
assignees: andreahewitt-odd, meganhkelley

---

## Steps to complete Project Kickoff
- [ ] Product Manager: using this template, create issue and fill in feature name in the title and other bolded information appropriately
- [ ] Assign issue to yourself and @meganhkelley and @andreahewitt-odd 
- [ ] Link to this issue once created in #vfs-platform-support in Slack; tag @ Megan Kelley @ AndreaHewitt
- [ ] Andrea and Megan to schedule meeting with VSP reviewers and **requesting team** attendees (as listed below)
- [ ] VSP <> **requesting team** review meeting completed

## Artifacts - _please bring the following to the kickoff meeting_
- Product brief/outline (draft)
- Explanation of the problem space
- Regression test plan (If there isn't already a regression test plan for this feature in TestRail) 
- Any other artifacts you have so far

## Meeting attendees from **requesting team**
- Product Manager: _name_
- DEPO Lead: _name_

## Scheduling
Preferred dates or times:
