.github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE/sitewide-CAIA-intake-form.md, before:

---
name: Sitewide Content, Accessibility, and IA Intake Form
about: Use this ticket to start collaboration on a new initiative with the sitewide content, accessibility, and information architecture (CAIA) team.
title: "[CAIA Intake] <Team Name>: <Initiative Name>"
labels: sitewide CAIA
assignees: strelichl,NaomiPMC

---
# Content, accessibility, information architecture (CAIA) new initiative collaboration request

Use this ticket to request collaboration on a new initiative with the sitewide content, accessibility, and information architecture (CAIA) team.

## About your team

- **Team name**: `Insert name`
- **OCTO product owner:** `Insert product owner`
- **Product name:** `Insert product name`
- **Product manager:**  `Insert product manager`
- **Slack channel:** `Insert and link to OCTO slack channel`
- **Dedicated content writer on your team (if you have one):** `Insert name and/or GH handle`
- **Dedicated a11y specialist on your team (if you have one):** `Insert name and/or GH handle`
 
## About your initiative

### Which of these descriptions best fits the work we’ll partner on?
Select all that apply.
- [ ] Digitizing a new form
- [ ] Creating a new digital tool
- [ ] Updating an existing form or tool
- [ ] Translating a form or tool into Spanish
- [ ] Adding new unauthenticated content to VA.gov
- [ ] Updating existing unauthenticated content on VA.gov
- [ ] Something else:  `insert description`

### What's the nature of your initiative and desired outcomes?

`Tell us briefly about your work and the outcomes you’re aiming to achieve.`

## Collaboration timeframe

**Note:** We work on nearly every OCTO product and manage all unauthenticated content on VA.gov, so we will need to prioritize intake requests based on overall workload and VA and OCTO priorities.

### Is this work tied to a Congressional mandate, change in law or policy, or upcoming event with a specific deadline?
- [ ] Yes
- [ ] No
- [ ] I’m not sure

### Where are you at in your timeline?
Tell us briefly about what you're working on now (such as initial discovery, wireframing, or usability research planning) and add any known dates for upcoming milestones or deadlines.

`Enter your description here`

### Will you release this new product incrementally (for example, release to 25% of users to start)?

- [ ]  Yes
- [ ]  No
 
 *Note: **If you check yes, we’ll reach out to discuss details about the content in the react widget. We use these widgets to display entry points for new products to a certain percentage of users who visit our static pages. Please refer to this [GitHub reference](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/blob/master/teams/vsa/teams/sitewide-content/processes/dynamic-content-process.md) for dynamic content.
 
- [ ]  I acknowledge that if I change the launch to be incremental, or change it from incremental to 100%, I must notify CAIA of this change as there is additional work involved that may impact deadlines.

## Collaboration cycle 

### Which phases of the collaboration cycle have you completed?
Select all that apply.
- [ ] Design intent 
- [ ] Midpoint review 
- [ ] Staging 
- [ ] None. This initiative isn’t going through the collaboration cycle.

### Collaboration cycle ticket 

If you’re going through the collaboration cycle, provide your ticket number and link:
- **Ticket Number:** `xxxxxx`

## Supporting artifacts
Provide links to any supporting artifacts that can help us better understand your initiative and begin collaboration. Include artifacts like your product outline, user flows, mockups and prototypes, or any draft content.
- [Supporting artifact <name>](https://va.gov) `placeholder link`

## Next steps
- [ ] Post a link to this issue in the [#sitewide-content-sitewide-content-accessibility-ia](https://dsva.slack.com/channels/sitewide-content-accessibility-ia) slack channel and tag `@Naomi Eke`, and we’ll then acknowledge receipt. We'll then review the artifacts in more detail and work with you to determine timing for collaboration. Depending on the work, we may schedule a kickoff meeting to better understand how we'll partner together.
- [ ] Review the remaining next steps in the **VFS team tasks** section here.
- [ ] **If you also need engineering support from the public websites team**, fill out their intake request form as well: [Open a public websites intake request](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/issues/new?assignees=Public+Websites%2C+Sitewide+content&labels=vsa-public-websites%2C+vsa%2C+vsa-public-websites-intake%2C+sitewide-content%2C+needs-grooming&template=public-websites-intake.md&title=%3CType+of+Request%3E+from+%3CTeam%3E)
- [ ] **If you're requesting a page/URL redirect, a URL change, or a vanity URL**, submit an additional request for this work: [Open a redirect, URL change, or vanity URL request](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/issues/new?assignees=jennymayoco%2C+kristinoletmuskat%2C+strelichl%2C+FranECross&labels=sitewide+CAIA%2C+Sitewide+IA%2C+Public+Websites%2C+VA.gov+frontend%2C+Redirect+request&projects=&template=redirect-request.md&title=Redirect+Request)
- [ ] **If you're creating an experimental design**, also contact the design system team: [Read more about experimental designs](https://design.va.gov/about/contributing-to-the-design-system/experimental-components-and-patterns#what-is-an-experimental-component-or-pattern?) <br> [Suggest an addition or update to the design system team](https://design.va.gov/about/contributing-to-the-design-system/suggest-an-addition-or-update)
- [ ] **If you're requesting a11y support for usability research**, submit a research support request next: [Open an a11y research support request](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/issues/new?assignees=coforma-terry%2Cangelafowler82&labels=508%2FAccessibility%2C+sitewide+CAIA%2C+sitewide+accessibility%2C+CAIA-a11y-research&template=caia-a11y-research.yaml&title=%5BCAIA+A11y+Research%5D%3A+Team+name%2C+product+name)
- [ ] **If you are requesting content support**, please share your content source of truth (preferably as a SharePoint document).

Commit message:

Added additional information on incremental launch widgets

.github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE/sitewide-CAIA-intake-form.md, after:

---
name: Sitewide Content, Accessibility, and IA Intake Form
about: Use this ticket to start collaboration on a new initiative with the sitewide content, accessibility, and information architecture (CAIA) team.
title: "[CAIA Intake] <Team Name>: <Initiative Name>"
labels: sitewide CAIA
assignees: strelichl,NaomiPMC

---
# Content, accessibility, information architecture (CAIA) new initiative collaboration request

Use this ticket to request collaboration on a new initiative with the sitewide content, accessibility, and information architecture (CAIA) team.

## About your team

- **Team name**: `Insert name`
- **OCTO product owner:** `Insert product owner`
- **Product name:** `Insert product name`
- **Product manager:**  `Insert product manager`
- **Slack channel:** `Insert and link to OCTO slack channel`
- **Dedicated content writer on your team (if you have one):** `Insert name and/or GH handle`
- **Dedicated a11y specialist on your team (if you have one):** `Insert name and/or GH handle`
 
## About your initiative

### Which of these descriptions best fits the work we’ll partner on?
Select all that apply.
- [ ] Digitizing a new form
- [ ] Creating a new digital tool
- [ ] Updating an existing form or tool
- [ ] Translating a form or tool into Spanish
- [ ] Adding new unauthenticated content to VA.gov
- [ ] Updating existing unauthenticated content on VA.gov
- [ ] Something else:  `insert description`

### What's the nature of your initiative and desired outcomes?

`Tell us briefly about your work and the outcomes you’re aiming to achieve.`

## Collaboration timeframe

**Note:** We work on nearly every OCTO product and manage all unauthenticated content on VA.gov, so we will need to prioritize intake requests based on overall workload and VA and OCTO priorities.

### Is this work tied to a Congressional mandate, change in law or policy, or upcoming event with a specific deadline?
- [ ] Yes
- [ ] No
- [ ] I’m not sure

### Where are you at in your timeline?
Tell us briefly about what you're working on now (such as initial discovery, wireframing, or usability research planning) and add any known dates for upcoming milestones or deadlines.

`Enter your description here`

### Will you release this new product incrementally (for example, release to 25% of users to start)?

- [ ]  Yes
- [ ]  No
 
 **Note** If you checked yes: Incremental launches require dynamic content. Your developer will build a React widget and provide CAIA with the ID code. CAIA will provide widget content and add the widget to your product’s static page. Please refer to this [GitHub page](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/blob/master/teams/vsa/teams/sitewide-content/processes/dynamic-content-process.md) for more information.
 
- [ ]  I acknowledge that if I change the launch to be incremental, or change it from incremental to 100%, I must notify CAIA of this change as these additional steps will impact deadlines.

## Collaboration cycle 

### Which phases of the collaboration cycle have you completed?
Select all that apply.
- [ ] Design intent 
- [ ] Midpoint review 
- [ ] Staging 
- [ ] None. This initiative isn’t going through the collaboration cycle.

### Collaboration cycle ticket 

If you’re going through the collaboration cycle, provide your ticket number and link:
- **Ticket Number:** `xxxxxx`

## Supporting artifacts
Provide links to any supporting artifacts that can help us better understand your initiative and begin collaboration. Include artifacts like your product outline, user flows, mockups and prototypes, or any draft content.
- [Supporting artifact <name>](https://va.gov) `placeholder link`

## Next steps
- [ ] Post a link to this issue in the [#sitewide-content-sitewide-content-accessibility-ia](https://dsva.slack.com/channels/sitewide-content-accessibility-ia) slack channel and tag `@Naomi Eke`, and we’ll then acknowledge receipt. We'll then review the artifacts in more detail and work with you to determine timing for collaboration. Depending on the work, we may schedule a kickoff meeting to better understand how we'll partner together.
- [ ] Review the remaining next steps in the **VFS team tasks** section here.
- [ ] **If you also need engineering support from the public websites team**, fill out their intake request form as well: [Open a public websites intake request](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/issues/new?assignees=Public+Websites%2C+Sitewide+content&labels=vsa-public-websites%2C+vsa%2C+vsa-public-websites-intake%2C+sitewide-content%2C+needs-grooming&template=public-websites-intake.md&title=%3CType+of+Request%3E+from+%3CTeam%3E)
- [ ] **If you're requesting a page/URL redirect, a URL change, or a vanity URL**, submit an additional request for this work: [Open a redirect, URL change, or vanity URL request](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/issues/new?assignees=jennymayoco%2C+kristinoletmuskat%2C+strelichl%2C+FranECross&labels=sitewide+CAIA%2C+Sitewide+IA%2C+Public+Websites%2C+VA.gov+frontend%2C+Redirect+request&projects=&template=redirect-request.md&title=Redirect+Request)
- [ ] **If you're creating an experimental design**, also contact the design system team: [Read more about experimental designs](https://design.va.gov/about/contributing-to-the-design-system/experimental-components-and-patterns#what-is-an-experimental-component-or-pattern?) <br> [Suggest an addition or update to the design system team](https://design.va.gov/about/contributing-to-the-design-system/suggest-an-addition-or-update)
- [ ] **If you're requesting a11y support for usability research**, submit a research support request next: [Open an a11y research support request](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/issues/new?assignees=coforma-terry%2Cangelafowler82&labels=508%2FAccessibility%2C+sitewide+CAIA%2C+sitewide+accessibility%2C+CAIA-a11y-research&template=caia-a11y-research.yaml&title=%5BCAIA+A11y+Research%5D%3A+Team+name%2C+product+name)
- [ ] **If you are requesting content support**, please share your content source of truth (preferably as a SharePoint document).
