.github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE/staging-review.md, before:

---
name: Staging Review
about: Request a VSP staging review
title: Staging Review [Feature-Name]
labels: product support, content-ia-team
assignees: andreahewitt-odd, meganhkelley

---

## Steps to complete VSP Staging Review: 

- [ ] Using this template, create issue and fill in feature name in the title and other bolded information appropriately
- [ ] Assign issue to yourself and @meganhkelley and @andreahewitt-odd 
- [ ] Link to this issue once created in #vfs-platform-support in Slack; tag @ Megan Kelley @ AndreaHewitt
- [ ] Andrea and Megan to schedule meeting with VSP reviewers and **requesting team** attendees (as listed below)
- [ ] At least 2 days before scheduled meeting, you must complete list of artifacts below
- [ ] VSP <> **requesting team** review meeting completed
- [ ] Practice area reviewers create sub-issues attached to this one with feedback for your team on *feature name*
- [ ] **Requesting team** completes attached feedback tickets based on definition of done included in each practice area feedback ticket (may differ for each practice area, please refer to attached tickets for further instruction)

## Artifacts - _please provide the following artifacts at least 2 days before scheduled review meeting_

- Link to where the feature lives on staging and link to any user testing credentials in https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team-sensitive/tree/master/platform/accessibility
- Link to test cases/test plan in TestRail and test execution logs in https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team-sensitive/tree/master/platform/accessibility

## Review meeting attendees from **requesting team**

- **You**
- **Anyone else from requesting team who should be present. Recommended: designer(s), content writer(s)**

Commit message:

Adding release plan to artifacts

.github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE/staging-review.md, after:

---
name: Staging Review
about: Request a VSP staging review
title: Staging Review [Feature-Name]
labels: product support, content-ia-team
assignees: andreahewitt-odd, meganhkelley

---

## Steps to complete VSP Staging Review: 

- [ ] Using this template, create issue and fill in feature name in the title and other bolded information appropriately
- [ ] Assign issue to yourself and @meganhkelley and @andreahewitt-odd 
- [ ] Link to this issue once created in #vfs-platform-support in Slack; tag @ Megan Kelley @ AndreaHewitt
- [ ] Andrea and Megan to schedule meeting with VSP reviewers and **requesting team** attendees (as listed below)
- [ ] At least 2 days before scheduled meeting, you must complete list of artifacts below
- [ ] VSP <> **requesting team** review meeting completed
- [ ] Practice area reviewers create sub-issues attached to this one with feedback for your team on *feature name*
- [ ] **Requesting team** completes attached feedback tickets based on definition of done included in each practice area feedback ticket (may differ for each practice area, please refer to attached tickets for further instruction)

## Artifacts - _please provide the following artifacts at least 2 days before scheduled review meeting_

- Link to where the feature lives on staging and link to any user testing credentials in https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team-sensitive/tree/master/platform/accessibility
- Link to test cases/test plan in TestRail and test execution logs in https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team-sensitive/tree/master/platform/accessibility
- Link to Release plan with planning criteria filled out [Template can be found here](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/blob/97759a81a47c73da8bf03e35f3a13bb3c689d18b/platform/product-management/release-plan-template.md)

## Review meeting attendees from **requesting team**

- **You**
- **Anyone else from requesting team who should be present. Recommended: designer(s), content writer(s)**
