HCADupes.P7.2019.03.08.1430

## Intro (2 minutes)

Comfortable with recording.

## Warm-up Questions (2 minutes)

- [About yourself]  My name is, I am married, for 7 years, a mom of 2-year-old boy, student, US Army veteran.
- [VA.gov Account]  Yes, I have.
- [How often]  Um, maybe once a twice a year, not a lot.
- [VA health care]  No I have not. 

## First Task: Sign in prompt on HCA intro page - 5 minutes

**1. Why do you think the website is suggesting you sign in before starting your application?**

[Why is it suggesting signing in]  Maybe so if you want to come back and finish it.

**2. In real life, do you think you would sign in before starting the application or would you continue without signing in?**

[Real life]  I would probably sign in, yes.

**3. What do you think will happen if you click "Start your application without signing in."?**

[What do you think will happen if you click link]  I mean maybe you will be able to start the application but if something happens to your computer you will not be able to continue where you let off.

**4. Is there anything you think could be improved about this prompt?**

[Improvement]  No.

## Second Task: Signed out ID page - 10 minutes

**Now that we're on the next page:**

**1. Can you tell me what you're looking at here?**

[Looking at]  Your personal information.

**2. What do you think the purpose of this page is?**

- [Purpose]  To identify if you are the right person.
- [Clarification]  The social number matches the name and not just anyone trying to apply for healthcare.
- [Before or after]  It’s before the application.
- [Why]  Before you signed in it said start the application without signing in.
- [Separate]  I think its separate, I don’t know maybe part of.

**3. Why do you think we are asking for a name/birth date/ssn *before* filling out the health care application?**

[Why are we asking for name, SSN, date of birth]  To identify who I am, or the person is.

**4. Before clicking anything, what do you think will happen when you click "Continue Application"?**

[What would happen when click]  It probably won’t let you get to the application.
[Why]  Because what is required if left blank.
[Clarification]  It will take you to the application.

**5. Do you trust this page?**

[Trust]  I mean yes, because it says VA I would trust it.

**6. What questions do you have about this page?**

[Questions] Why do I have to put in my SSN. Why do they have to say their gender.

**7. What could be improved about this page?**

[Improve]  No, just the social and gender for me.

**OK, let's pretend you have filled out the form. Please click into the First Name box for me — this will fill in the form in the prototype, though in real life, you'd be able to type into each field as you would normally expect to.**

**Please click "Continue to the Application." (Wait for "Please sign in prompt" to load) Now it looks like you're being asked to sign in to VA.gov.**

**1. Why do you think the site is asking you to sign in?**

[Why we need it]  Yes like why is my social needed.

**2. What do you expect will happen when you sign in?**

[Why would you sign in]  Maybe they already created an account for you due to having your name, social and gender.
[Clarification] Yes as soon as they filled out their social and name they were automatically given an account.
[Clarification] Yes

**3. How are you feeling at this point in your experience trying to get to the health care application?**

[Feeling]  I would probably be frustrate because it gave me the choice not to sign in and now I have to sign in.

**4. Imagine this were real life – what do you think you would do from here?**

[Next]  I would probably do it anyways but I would be angry I would not be happy.

## Third Task: LOA1 identity verification prompt and ID verification flow - 10 minutes

**1. Why do you think you are seeing this prompt? Why do you think you are being asked to verify your identity before you can apply for health care?**

[Why the prompt] I don’t know why, I don’t know why to be honest. I have them my name and social what else do I have to verify.
[Guess] Maybe for fraud to make sure I am the right person.

**2. What do you think this has to do with the previous page we looked at where you had to put in your name/birth date/SSN?**

[Previous page]  That’s what I am saying I did that so why do I have to do it again. I don’t think this page is needed.
[Clarification]  Yes because this is taking more of my time.

**3. How are you feeling at this point?**

[Feeling]  So far frustrating because it has been a couple of minutes and I am not at the application page. It is wasting time.

**4. Imagine this were real life – what do you think you would do from here?**

[Real life]  I would, depending on how I need it. If I don’t need it I would not finish it

**5. What do you expect to happen when you click "verify my identity?"**

[Expect]  Probably ask me to put in some more stuff.

**6. How could this prompt be improved?**

[Improvement]  I don’t think it is needed to verify the session. 

**Now we are at the end of this process. Before we click "Finish:"**

**1. In real life, do you think you would have completed the identity verification flow to get to the next step in the health care application process?**

[In real life]  I would be cause I don’t have a choice unless I filled out that page.

**2. What do you think will happen next?**

[What will happen]  Probably ask you to put in the information you already put in like name, SSN.
[Why]  Because I mean to start the application.

## Fourth Task: LOA3 Warning - 12 minutes

**1. Tell me what you're seeing here. What is this page communicating to you?**

[Communicating]  I did not qualify for healthcare, so its telling me, probably given me my options and the questions that I have. Like common questions.

**2. Why do you think you are now being told you don't qualify for VA health care?**

[Why]  I don’t know because I don’t qualify for it.
[Clarification]  I don’t know to be honest, I mean how could you tell earlier when all that information is need.
[Clarification]  Right, the SSN, the date, and I did it before maybe that’s why they know I don’t qualify.
[Notice]  I did.
[Information from today or prior]  Probably the previous application. 

**3. How do you feel at this point?**

[Feeling]  Frustrated.
[What to do to feel less]  Maybe I don’t have to do all that just to find out I don’t qualify, maybe be told a lot sooner I don’t qualify.

**4. In real life, what do you think you would do next?**

[Real life]  I would probably call the number.

**5. Would you reapply?**

[Reapply]  Yes I would.
[Why]  Maybe something, I would probably go to a VA office I would not do it online again.
[Why call or go to VA]  I mean if online tells me I don’t qualify they will do it again whereas I can call in and speak to somebody.
[Clarification]  Yes.

**6. What do you think would happen if you clicked "Reapply for VA health care?"**

[Click link to reapply]  Probably ask me to put in the same information I have been for the past few minutes.
[Why]  Because they ask the same thing over and over again so why not again.

**7. What questions do you have?**

[Questions]  No questions.

**8. How could this page be improved?**

[Improve]  You see where it says apply on the date, make it more visible.
[Any other]  No, no. 

**Enrolled**
- [Communicate]  It’s telling me that I have been accepted to have VA healthcare and that I already enrolled and maybe like if I need to edit my account it is telling me how to do it.
- [Feeling]  I would be happy, I would have healthcare I would be happy.
- [Reapply]  Yes, well. Yea I would.
- [Why]  Because I already have, I will be accepted so no.
- [Clarification]  To have it again to have healthcare.
- [Clarification] No, no, no.
- [Improved]  Maybe take the reapply away because it is kind of confusing.
- [Clarification]  Because I think I need to reapply because I see the reapply. 

**Pending**
- [Communicating]  It is telling me my application is being reviewed pretty much.
- [Feeling]  I would be like okay and just wait.
- [Reapply]  No I would not.
- [Improved]  Maybe say how many days they will get their letter in the mail. 

**Expired**
- [Communicating]  It is saying that um the application has expired, and you can call the management team. 
- [Feeling]  I would probably call the number right away.
- [Why]  To see what is needed from me or just to get information what’s needed from me
- [Reapply] Um, no I would call and ask if I need to do another application or if I can just continue from the one made before.
- [Clarification] Yes.
- [Improve]  You see where it says where you apply again, is that where you apply for VA health care. I guess I would just reapply. Whatever they tell me on the phone I would just reapply.
- [Improve]  Maybe be clearer, tell people if they need to reapply so they don’t have to call the number.
- [Anything else]  No.

## Post-Task Interview - 2 minutes

- [Feeling]  if there were more positive outcomes I would be happy if it were something negative like oh you don’t have it or it is expired I would have felt like I wasted time putting in the information.
- [Improve]  Probably give a number be like call this number and we can assist you for more. Or like give them the option.
- [What option]  Maybe there’s something else they can do to get healthcare or something to help them get healthcare.
- [When]  As soon as possible.
- [Any other improvements] Asking people to put in the same information over and over again… maybe it would put it in automatically next time. Also do things by email instead of mail. A lot of people, maybe not older people but younger people do it by email not mail.

## Thank-You and Closing - 1 minutes
Well we really appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us today. Your feedback is so helpful to us as we continue to work on the site and make sure it really works for Veterans.

As a thank you for your participation, we'd like to send you a $50 thank-you check. This will be sent by (Brian/Shannon from) Perigean, the people that recruited you to talk to us today. They'll work with you to figure out the right place to send it.
