HCA duplicates user testing – Notes 
P8 - 11MAR - 1030

## Intro (2 minutes)

Comfortable with recording.

## Warm-up Questions (2 minutes)

- [Tell me about yourself]  My name is Stephen Haas, DC resident for 2 years, George Mason University graduate student. Last semester and landed a job after May which is a huge relieve, Huge jazz fan, enjoy college school. Military brat growing up and served in the US Navy.
- [VA.gov]  Yes I believe I do as well as a DC vets’ login for their off.
- [How often]  Pretty sparingly, maybe. I use Ebenefits often and MyHealtheVet sparingly, maybe once every 6 months.

## First Task: Sign in prompt on HCA intro page - 5 minutes

**1. Why do you think the website is suggesting you sign in before starting your application?**

[Why is it suggesting you sign in prior]  Just wants to authenticate you, make sure it’s the right persona and probably set up an initial account for tracking purposes.

**2. In real life, do you think you would sign in before starting the application or would you continue without signing in?**

[Real life]  If it’s a new application maybe not if you are just applying for heath care benefits but if it is a continued on I would sign in.
[Clarification]  I go to the VA occasionally so I would just do a paper one. But yes, I would sign in prior.

**3. What do you think will happen if you click "Start your application without signing in."?**

[Click what would happen]  I think it would automatically bring you the application and start it without having to sign in.

**4. Is there anything you think could be improved about this prompt?**

[Improve]  It looks like there is a lot of information, it looks like its like a purchasing account where you can go straight to buying the object instead of placing personal information.
[Anything else]  No not really.

## Second Task: Signed out ID page - 10 minutes

**Now that we're on the next page:**

**1. Can you tell me what you're looking at here?**

[Want are you looking at]  Giving initial information, yea it is asking me if I want to sign in or skip this step not providing personal information. Its asking for basic identifiable information and telling me how much time is involved as well as when it must be done by. Providing information to assist if I had questions which I like.

**2. What do you think the purpose of this page is?**

[Why asking]  It is an exact identifier and it is starting the application process.

**3. Why do you think we are asking for a name/birth date/ssn *before* filling out the health care application?**

[Why asking for name and SSN prior]  Make sure it is one exact individual and maybe its not information everyone would know.

[Separate or first page]  It feels to me it is separate from the application and you would have to sign out your name, SSN and DOB. Because it states sign in to start your application.

**4. Before clicking anything, what do you think will happen when you click "Continue Application"?**

[What would happen] I think it would send me to the application phase.

**5. Do you trust this page?**

[Trust]  Yes, well let’s see. It seems like I am on the VA page it has a secure hyperlink page, yes I would trust it

**6. What questions do you have about this page?**

[Questions]  Maybe initially providing a social, other than that no major questions. I know its 2019 some people may have issues with the gender questions.

**7. What could be improved about this page?**

[Improve]  It looks pretty straight forward, it seems secure I would not have many questions.

**OK, let's pretend you have filled out the form. Please click into the First Name box for me — this will fill in the form in the prototype, though in real life, you'd be able to type into each field as you would normally expect to.**

**Please click "Continue to the Application." (Wait for "Please sign in prompt" to load) Now it looks like you're being asked to sign in to VA.gov.**

**1. Why do you think the site is asking you to sign in?**

[Why is It asking you to sign in]  Maybe because the application is associated with VA.gov or VA.gov has your personally identifiable information and need to you to authenticate yourself.

**2. What do you expect will happen when you sign in?**

[What will happen]  Maybe in this case it is asking you to review information because the VA is always wanting you to ensure your information is up to date like is this your most recent address.

**3. How are you feeling at this point in your experience trying to get to the health care application?**

[Feeling]  It told me I didn’t have to sign in and now it’s telling me I have to. It seems like fore more than needed.

**4. Imagine this were real life – what do you think you would do from here?**

[Real life]  I would just sign into my VA.gov account if I remembered all if the information.

## Third Task: LOA1 identity verification prompt and ID verification flow - 10 minutes

**1. Why do you think you are seeing this prompt? Why do you think you are being asked to verify your identity before you can apply for health care?**

[Why are you being prompted]  It needs to make sure, healthcare benefits are a personal thing and needs to make sure it is you. 10-15 minutes seems like awhile but it’s for safety so good.

**2. What do you think this has to do with the previous page we looked at where you had to put in your name/birth date/SSN?**

[What with previous page]  I mean maybe there is extra things that are required to verify your identity. I don’t know maybe an extra step for verification.

**3. How are you feeling at this point?**

[Feeling]  That it is taking a decent amount of time at this point.

**4. Imagine this were real life – what do you think you would do from here?**

[Real life]  If I needed I would do all I had to but if it was not pressing I might stop.

**5. What do you expect to happen when you click "verify my identity?"**

[Click]  That’s a good question it asks for my other personal information earlier. Maybe it would ask about previous address from your credit report or military data. 

**6. How could this prompt be improved?**

[Improved]  I mean if it is what is required and what is in the next step it could be improved by not being there, but it looks good.

**Now we are at the end of this process. Before we click "Finish:"**

**1. In real life, do you think you would have completed the identity verification flow to get to the next step in the health care application process?**

[Real life]  Well, if it was like that and if it was fairly quick than yes if I needed the application and I would appreciate the authentication.

**2. What do you think will happen next?**

[Click finish]  Hopefully than, you can go to the application. I would hope you could go to the application


## Fourth Task: LOA3 Warning - 12 minutes

**1. Tell me what you're seeing here. What is this page communicating to you?**

[Communication]  Well, the first alert box tells me I do not qualify for HC. At that point it seems like a hassle but the information below provides additional information. It seems like it was taking me to the application so I would be upset.

**2. Why do you think you are now being told you don't qualify for VA health care?**

[Why told now]  You provided all Identifiable information, so it probably doesn’t match. It is the fact you have not served for 24 months so your service time was too short.
[Notice]  No I did not notice it at first but now I do.
[Previous or new information] Well, I would think that it would be today and notice that if talking in different time context, but I would not be 100 percent sure.

**3. How do you feel at this point?**

[Feeling]  Well if I’m assuming Kim or whom ever the person s and the information is accurate I would not feel to bad but as I spent a decent amount of time to find out I do not qualify.

**4. In real life, what do you think you would do next?**

[Real life]  I would try and find a way to prove my eligibility or to work around it by calling the vets line or clicking on the other hyperlink. I would contact someone.

**5. Would you reapply?**

[Reapply]  If the message was wrong than yes I would reapply.

**6. What do you think would happen if you clicked "Reapply for VA health care?"**

[What happened with link] Maybe it starts a new application for VA healthcare services.

**7. What questions do you have?**

[Questions]  No questions about this page really.

**8. How could this page be improved?**

[Improve]  I like that it has a lot of phone number to contact and talk with someone about it and the enrollment manage team and the mental health information if I needed it. I cannot think of a whole lot else if the information was correct and arrived at this page it would be helpful.

**Enrolled**
- [Communicating]  Ok, it is telling me I have already enrolled into healthcare. When I applicated and when I was enrolled as well as preferred VA Center. It is telling me I can update my information and not to start a new application to update information. It provides assurance that I am not to submit a new application and to submit a 10-10EZr.
- [Feeling]  Good I don’t have to apply again.
- [Reapply]  No.
- [Improvements]  I don’t notice, I’m not a coder or website designer so it looks fine for me.

**Rejected**
- [Communicating]  I do not qualify based on previous application and no service connect disability and income which falls below the limits. Provides ample about of information why I do not qualify and provides a call option. I still can have mental healthcare within a year of discharge I can assess that. It tells me that applying again that I should talk to someone prior to applying. Provides more information that I appreciate so I know why I do not qualify for they may appeal the decision if there is a change.
- [Feeling]  I would feel better because some of these things might apply to me and I would like more information.
- [Reapply]  Only if I had talked to a case management case individual first.
- [Improve]  Maybe the, no no nothing of not really.

**Pending**
- [Communication]  Well it says that you are reviewing my application to it is in a holding phase and tells me where they will contact me by mail. It is telling me I have applied and awaiting to hear back and not to submit a new application during this approval or not approved process.
- [Feeling]  I would feel pretty good because it is in the stage of being reviewed. I know it can take the VA a decent amount of time, but I wouldn’t be sad or happen.
- [Reapply]  I wouldn’t.
- [Improve]  No improvements.

**Expired**
- [Communicating]  It is telling me my application had been expired, when I applied and their was a problem which the documents, provides someone to talk to and other information for 1 year after separation and I should apply again. I would want to reapply in this case.
- [Feeling]  I would feel a little better because I know it just expired so I know what the issues is and if I would qualify with their personal information.
- [Improve]  No improvements.

## Post-Task Interview - 2 minutes
- [Feeling]  I guess I air on the side of protection of personal information and am really glad that they confirmed it was me. It seemed like a lot of steps to get to the application and asked if I wanted to sign in or not. It should provide one option and I don’t like how there are separate log in for all veteran information pages. I like that there are people to talk to and if all apps were linked it would be nice.
- [Clarification]  I am talking about the part where it says continue without signing in, it would be good to be told to do it.
- [Improvements]  It wasn’t too bad, it seemed like you had to confirm a decent amount of information. I understand that it is needed, I can see some people wouldn’t like that but I don’t really care. If it were to say someone is standing by to talk to you that would be nice. 

## Thank-You and Closing - 1 minutes
Well we really appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us today. Your feedback is so helpful to us as we continue to work on the site and make sure it really works for Veterans.

As a thank you for your participation, we'd like to send you a $50 thank-you check. This will be sent by (Brian/Shannon from) Perigean, the people that recruited you to talk to us today. They'll work with you to figure out the right place to send it.
