HCADupes.P9.2019.03.11.1030

## Intro (2 minutes)

Comfortable with recording.

## Warm]up Questions (2 minutes)

- [About yourself]  My name is Komi Semedo and I use VA healthcare. So there anything else you need to now?
- [VA.gov Site]  Yes, I have.
- [How often] About one a week for healthcare and GI bill benefits so about once a week.

## First Task: Sign in prompt on HCA intro page - 5 minutes

**1. Why do you think the website is suggesting you sign in before starting your application?**

[Why sign in before starting your application]  I think any application requires the applicant’s personal information and to verify the individual’s credentials so they need to verify.

**2. In real life, do you think you would sign in before starting the application or would you continue without signing in?**

[Real life] I think I would want to sign in prior. For example, I for my GI Bill I had to sign in to answer the questions.

**3. What do you think will happen if you click "Start your application without signing in."?**

[Start application] I don’t know because I have not tried that before, I think if you click on that link it is going to ask for your personal information.

[Clarification] Yes, like personal identification information.

**4. Is there anything you think could be improved about this prompt?**

[Improve] Um, no I mean I don’t see anything so far.

## Second Task: Signed out ID page - 10 minutes

**Now that we're on the next page:**

**1. Can you tell me what you're looking at here?**

[What you're looking at here] So on this page is exactly what I was saying earlier before you start your healthcare information please enter information to determine your eligible. I don’t think everyone is eligible for VA healthcare. It will ask potential applicants their personal information.

**2. What do you think the purpose of this page is?**
**3. Why do you think we are asking for a name/birth date/ssn *before* filling out the health care application?**

[SSN, name and DOB why] Well, again to decide the eligible requirement and exactly whom is applying. To identify the individual. 

[Clarification] Yes, to identify the individual by name.

**4. Before clicking anything, what do you think will happen when you click "Continue Application"?**

[Click continue to application] It would take you to the next step of the application.

**5. Do you trust this page?**

[Trust] well, I have a doubt the first time but as long as it is a va.gov than I would go ahead and agree. Because it is asking for your SSN, I would be a little reluctant at the beginning.

**6. What questions do you have about this page?**

[Questions] I don’t have any questions on this page.

**7. What could be improved about this page?**

[Improvements] Okay, I would suggest having an encryption on the site to prevent any potential hacks and security features to prevent any online hacking.

**OK, let's pretend you have filled out the form. Please click into the First Name box for me — this will fill in the form in the prototype, though in real life, you'd be able to type into each field as you would normally expect to.**

**Please click "Continue to the Application." (Wait for "Please sign in prompt" to load) Now it looks like you're being asked to sign in to VA.gov.**

**1. Why do you think the site is asking you to sign in?**

[Why do you think you are being asked to sign in]  So, one thing I am thinking is the reason is to verify that you are an actual individual and second to create a username and password.

**2. What do you expect will happen when you sign in?**

[What will happen] It will ask you to create a username and password than move on.

**3. How are you feeling at this point in your experience trying to get to the health care application?**

[Feeling] So far I am feeling comfortable and that it does not have any issues so far.

**4. Imagine this were real life – what do you think you would do from here?**

[Real life] I would sign in.

## Third Task: LOA1 identity verification prompt and ID verification flow - 10 minutes

**1. Why do you think you are seeing this prompt? Why do you think you are being asked to verify your identity before you can apply for health care?**

[Prompt]  Um, yea I think to verify your credentials and who you are and that if idk if va.gov is linked or connected to DoD to verify your identify or credentials as well as process your information and display your information.

**2. What do you think this has to do with the previous page we looked at where you had to put in your name/birth date/SSN?**

[Previous page] um, I don’t know. Well on the previous page we entered first name and all of the information and if you click on verify your identity it will also confirm what kind of information was entered previously and would cross reference the information.

**3. How are you feeling at this point?**

[Feeling] Well, it’s not real life so its complicated for me to get there.

**4. Imagine this were real life – what do you think you would do from here?**

[Real life] Do verify your identity.
[Clarification] I would verify my identify.

**5. What do you expect to happen when you click "verify my identity?"**

[Click] It will display your information that you just filled in.

**6. How could this prompt be improved?**

[Improved] I don’t see any improvements needed. 

**Now we are at the end of this process. Before we click "Finish:"**

**1. In real life, do you think you would have completed the identity verification flow to get to the next step in the health care application process?**

[Real life] Yes I would do that.

**2. What do you think will happen next?**

[What will happen] I think it would send you a confirmation message and if not it would provide more steps.
[Clarification] Not healthcare application it would be personal information steps.

## Fourth Task: LOA3 Warning - 12 minutes

**1. Tell me what you're seeing here. What is this page communicating to you?**

[Communicating]  Like we just said this page is telling you that you are not eligible to apply for VA healthcare and the reason why. IT also offers for information to the applicant.

**2. Why do you think you are now being told you don't qualify for VA health care?**

[Why now] Because that’s probably based on the information that you have entered such as your name, SSN an DOB. They will look at your DoD information to determine if you have served less than 24 months.

[Notice] Yes, I did notice that but what I thought that this the prior application date.
Information entered] Yes that was what I was thinking.

**3. How do you feel at this point?**

[Feeling] Well, I mean like um how easy the process is or the decision being made.
[Clarification] I would feel like it was a waste of time because I went this far just to find out I do not qualify.

**4. In real life, what do you think you would do next?**

[Real life] Um, first thing I would do is ask questions and look at the other information provide to see if I can get any other information. IF I still do not qualify I would call and talk to a healthcare person.

**5. Would you reapply?**

[Reapply] Yes, I would definitely reapply.
[Why] To see if I qualify for example, maybe a policy change or change of requirements. I would definitely try again.

**6. What do you think would happen if you clicked "Reapply for VA health care?"**

[Reapply again link] I don’t think it would deny me it would take me through the application process again and I would do it again.
[Clarification] The healthcare application site.

**7. What questions do you have?**

[Question] No I don’t have any questions about this page.

**8. How could this page be improved?**

[Improve] No not really. I like the information provide and the resources for the questions that I would have.

**Enrolled**
- [Communicating] This is now saying that you are now already enrolled, and you applied on Jan 2 and enrolled on Jan 30. So, I am maybe lost or if this is the same questions. 
- [Feeling] I would be happy that I am qualified, its good new.
- [Reapply] I would not because it does not say that my eligibility expires or that I need to reapply.
- [Improve] I don’t see any improvements because it provides location services to find a medical center.

**Rejected**
- Communicating] It says the information at the top of the screen telling me I do not qualify due to no service-connected disability and provides the options and answers to questions. There are contact numbers in case I have any questions.
- [Feeling] Um, I would feel like I signed up for VA healthcare I was like okay I do not qualify for VA healthcare.
- Reapply] I would apply again.
- Improve] I don’t see any improvements on this page.

**Pending**
- [Communicating] So, it is saying that my application is in the reviewing process and that I will be connected by mail if they require any further documents. It provides information for contact information and how would I know if I need to apply again and the application is in process you are not required to apply again. You are to hold on and wait for the VA.
- [Reapply] No.
- [Feeling] Confident and hopeful. Hopefully the decision will come out after it has been reviewed.
- [Improvement] Nah.

**Expired**
- [Communication] Okay, it is hard because it is telling me that I needed to submit or have not provided documents, but the VA probably did not contact me about the information. I would not be happy with it because they did not ask me for additional documents. 
- [Feeling] Yes, if they asked I would have submitted what they asked for.
- [Reapply] I would reapply but I would call them and like I told you I would call them and ask how did this happen/. I have not been contacted for additional documents why did it expired
- [Clarification] Yupp.
- [Improve] What I like about all of this is that it provides you with contact information if you need help and provides the reason such as you have not provided the documents. I do not see any improvements needs.

## Post-Task Interview - 2 minutes
- [Feeling] so, I do not feel like the whole process. Most of them have contact information and information. It is normal and an easy process. The only question I have is, what about when you have to enter the personal information, I don’t know much about that. If you look back it has reasons why you don’t qualify.
- [Improve] No, I mean right now I don’t have any additional comments.
- [Questions] No I don’t have any questions. 

## Thank-You and Closing - 1 minutes
Well we really appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us today. Your feedback is so helpful to us as we continue to work on the site and make sure it really works for Veterans.
As a thank you for your participation, we'd like to send you a $50 thank-you check. This will be sent by (Brian/Shannon from) Perigean, the people that recruited you to talk to us today. They'll work with you to figure out the right place to send it.
