# Kickoff with 686 Stakeholders  
`Wednesday, December 18, 2019 at 12pm/3pm ET via Skype`
### Attendees
- **(Point of Contact)** Shute, Paul J., VBAVACO
- Keyes, Janel, VBAVACO
- White, Kayce, VBAVACO
- **(Point of Contact)** Steve Kovacs, eBenefits Team, DSVA
- Jason Wolf, eBenefits Team, VSA
- Jim Adams, eBenefits Team, VSA
- A few others from VBAVACO

**Scope for eBenefits Team is migration and improvement of EBN features into the larger VA.gov ecosystem for a better Veteran experience.  With respect to the 21-686c we want to learn more about the business perspective, what the pain points are and what initial thoughts you have about what is being built.**

### Backgrounds
Matt Hoff(sp) from policy and procedures, editor and has worked on frontend automated tools, worked with Andrea and Paul Shute on Disability Compensation Claim Tool for regular disability claims.

Janel Keyes is the Regulations Chief for Part 3, Part 4 over the Forms Program which handles a lot of the adjudication process and regulation. Publication control officer (Kayce White) who is a forms expert, worked on the 686 revision and is working on the 674 revision going on now.  

Radine Mase(sp) is a QA staff member and has experience in adjudication process, helps with policy and procedures.

Kim Tibbetts(sp) is a manual editor, gets inquiries from the field, has experience around the claims process.

### Call Notes
Form should match what is online.  Changes here might be able to be incorporated into the 674 revision.  Some of the challenges heard from the EBN dependent claim functionality is that they really only have tools to allow for adding dependents, but being able to remove is somewhat problematic, hence the form revision.

Current workflow: Veteran will login, go to EBN, go through the Dependents tool (not exactly 1:1 its more like a control panel), then that submission goes to VNP tables, RBPS wakes up and performs batch processes on it.  What happens when RBPS does something to it, what happens after that?

There are multiple categories within RBPS where it is trying to triage to determine whether the claim is eligible for RBPS and it goes to a real-time award adjustment and if it is elegible it goes through the happy path RBPS line.  

If not, it goes to a second layer which is manual data entry in a RBPS GUI that is hosted in share.

If that doesn't work it goes to the regional offices where it a goes through a complete manual process and its looked at and corrective adjudicative actions are attempted.

We may need to chat with more technical folks about the finer details about RBPS.  There are certain types of claims that cannot be processed, ie, for adoptions you need more docs submitted and that will not be automated.

There are 4 exclusions, but not sure what they are at the moment: adoption, helpless child needs medical evidence, APO addresses...in the EBN workflow there should be some description of that and are called out.

**What is the volume?**

300,000 a year (more details to come)

**Paper vs online?**

Needs further investigation

**How many claims are happy path through RBPS?**

Through EBN, its less than 20%, where the rest are manually done outside EBN.  33,800 claims are pending today.  Paul will make a data request:  over the last couple fiscal years - how many claims were recieved, how many happy pathed through the RBPS process vs others, with further stratification and distribution we need.

**Is the 686c the best form for making this kind of request, is there another way to make a dependency claim?**

There are still some other forms for disability compensation but usually there is more work to verify the claim.  The [21P-509](https://www.va.gov/vaforms/form_detail.asp?FormNo=21P-509) is for parent only and has an exclusion because it requires income at network.

It was recommended to go through Pension and Fiduciary service to integrate that since they own that and would have insight on that.

Given there was not as much happy path, this is why we wanted to revised it to go from a 2 page form to 12 to include more conversion.  Revision for 686 completed September 2018 but took 3 years to do.  As of October 2019, this is the only available version.  The older form was for a very narrow use case where the new form is now fairly generalized for a lot of common use cases and maybe one of the things we want to do in migrating it, is to make those use cases specific to the Veteran - if they want to come in and fill out one part, they can treat the form kind of like Chapters.  

Correct. Similar to what the forms says now, if a section is not applicable, you can move on to the next applicable section.

**More questions:**
- Is there any time that there is more than one chapter filled out at a time?  Like add child AND update marital status?  (If there was a wizard or selection process to "choose your own adventure," we might only do one a time and multiples might be represented resulting in an extra submission)
- What kind of data do we want to see?
- What is envisioned for joining up with another form (like 647/509)?
