This conversation on 1/31/2018 was mostly between Brad Houston and Charles, with Brad describing D2D and how VSOs interact with the VA generally. Full (rough) notes below:

----

Brad describing Charles’ job: "What technology solutions is VA ignoring that could make us go much better?"

Assisted landscape (not looking at VA employees): Attorneys, states/counties that are accredited, accredited VSOs, unaccredited VSOs. 

Attorneys: Veterans have right to have attorneys help them. no one can charge Veterans to apply for benefits. Law does allow for attorney fees in appellate cases. 
In many cases, law firms are going out and doing campaign “was your claim denied in error? call our law firm and we can help you.” because there is money in this. 
These attorneys want access to Veterans file. want to know everything government knows. 

The "Big 6" VSOs are who we usually talk about but there are 80ish VSOs. have a legal right to represent Veterans. accredited by VA. have service officers who go through training and are given access to VA systems. These service officers often sit in regional offices.  

DAV, VFW, and American Legion are examples. but states also have accredited service officers who can access VA systems. Texas Veterans commission represents more Veterans than VFW.  there are also non-accredited service officers who cannot access VA systems. 

In Georgia, state org is accredited, but don’t have many service officers. use Georgia state system but not allowed into VA systems. 

4 categories: Attorneys, states/counties that are accredited, accredited VSOs, unaccredited VSOs. 

----

In systems space, if you’re an accredited VSO or attorney, you can get access to VBMS. Can do limited things (can’t change payments, change name). but you can log in and can see everything in our system. but that’s about it.  
Will use VBMS to look at specifically VA stuff. will use other systems to look at other things. 

It’s rare to see active VSOs on things other than C&P. In theory when a VSO represents you, that’s for everything for VA space. but in practice, they really only are involved with C&P, not things like scheduling appointments. this is mostly because there isn’t much contention in health care space or in education (things happen in a couple days/weeks, less of a problem).  would not ask VSO to help get a home loan, but in theory could.  So in practice, VSOs deal with C&P in VA space and a lot of things outside VA space. 

if we get really good at self service, you could see the same pattern with claims applications as you do with taxes. used to be an HR block in every strip mall. turbotax has changed that industry. 

----

There are two other ways accredited VSOs can get access to VA:
SEP: duplicate of eBenefits. anything a Veteran can do in eBenefits, VSO can log into SEP and do. if you log into eBenefits, can adjust amount you receive for dependents. if log into SEP, VSO can do it. it’s a clone of eBenefits with different login methodology. This is aimed at what VA does, has nothing to do with what the states do. 

D2D: limited interface where systems can get access to VA systems. If D2D was robust, could create single app for third party to show all information in a single place. D2D space is where companies like VetPro could connect.

VetPro would make money by building the best layered tool. 
Arizona Dept of Veterans Services. Many Veterans live on remote reservations. it may be that the public health service facility closer to them is better treatment location. VetPro could make money from states/professional orgs/attorneys where if they connect to VA they could provide more information. 

Third party apps: california has CalVet that they built that does the same stuff. generally what this is is that it’s a VSO or Veteran saying “i could build a really cool thing then sell it” and these companies get started and then realize how hard it is to connect to VA systems and start to wither away. 

Texas has accredited service officers in Waco/Houston. non-accredited elsewhere. accredited service officers review information, agree with it, download from Texas, and upload to VBMS.  In VetPro’s mind, county service officer would log in and start, build in workflow that once they click submit and it goes to VBMS even the county person could see status. could build status notifications. they want to make their tool something that VSOs and attorneys would pay money to use, so has to be better than SEP. 

SEP was a solution designed by VBA designed to address the fact of VSOs using a multitude of systems. was never designed to be “the system”.  and VSOs are not uniform, so all have different opinions on what’s best.  D2D, SEP, direct upload, are all attempt to provide access to a varied set of systems. 

One of the pieces of Veteran self service is that orgs like DAV, VFW, American Legion (all with lobbying arms), they lobby for Veterans benefits. but they don’t see self service as the way things should be going. it’s in their best interest that assisted service should be better because that’s their business model.  DAV is about “let us help you get your claim granted and join us as a member for life.”

----

D2D: all you can do is file a claim for compensation. can’t appeal. can’t file dependency claims. can’t get CoE. can’t find out remaining GI bill entitlement. Don’t get status updates as the claim moves through the process (ask for evidence, VA makes decision, etc). none of these steps get pushed out through D2D.  

If Veteran can log into eBenefits and see what’s going on, and D2D doesn’t push the data out, then VSOs have to log into SEP to check as well. should get information/changes pushed to them. 

There are IT services that fetch data from Corp, but these are not connected to D2D or SEP. 

Right now, the way IT supports getting data in and out of Corp is BGS services. This is a Tuxedo middleware. literally every VBA software release has something come out because BGS didn’t get it done. Even on things like sync with Vet360, Brad is constantly told BGS doesn’t have resources to do that.  Vet360 has been asking for 3 months to use a different methodology. 

----

if VA wanted to make turbo tax type thing possible, that data could be made available to external companies. have to have the right pieces and how to make sure the companies don’t show the data to the people they shouldn’t. not like the data is locked away in some legacy thing that no one understands. but governance issues with how to expose it and manage it. 

if we’re able to give VetPro more data on what we know about a user already, these companies could be more successful. 

Charles: what we would want is getting VetPros in a room and having them design API on paper of what they would want to exist could be valuable. or what transactions they want to perform. My mental model right now is exposing what is available in SEP as an API. 

brad: SEP does a quarter of things everyone wants. because we don’t have enough money. but if we build the API layer, those customers bring their customer money. Texas built their own system, Minnesota built their own. if you have this as an API, then all these companies that are building their own things can go buy it. instead we half way invested in a bunch of stuff. 

Denise: “VA did everything 20-40%.” 
Original concept: D2D is payload for VSOs that have products so they no longer have to print things out and mail it to VA.  SEP was for all the VSOs that didn’t invest in their own system or VetPro because they didn’t want to leave anyone out. 

VetPro uses D2D today. 

----

One of the key things all these groups do is send documents to VA. There are upload limits built into SEP and D2D that VSOs don’t like. In some cases they use Central Intake Upload instead.  VSO cluggy things together, but if we had a robust version of D2D, you could see much more return with less investment from VA. 

unaccredited VSOs work with VA via accredited VSOs, so can put them aside. 

----

The lack of clear ownership of this space is why we’ve done many things at 20%.  need to figure out who is responsible for it, otherwise will do requirements session and will get folks energized and then won’t do anything about it. 

Who makes the decision about where the money goes. Brad could get all the requirements, have a great “here’s what the thing should do”, but unless it’s clear who is responsible for doing it and prioritizes between the things, then who runs it once it’s in place? (say if VetPro lets Veterans look at things for wrong people).  Need to think about implementation, because without this, Brad wouldn’t resource the effort to gather the requirements.  

The reason why D2D isn’t what VetPro wants it to be is that the ownership of the space within VA is ambiguous. And there was indecisiveness of strategy because we didn’t know what tools we would be putting in their hands. If we all agree on the strategy it isn't that hard. 

The IRS did not a build a GUI for HR Block to work in, they built an API.  Turbotax charges you $30 up front and you can’t do that for Veterans. TurboTax in VA space can only get money from attorneys and VSOs, not Veterans, so have a smaller potential revenue stream. 

if someone was accountable for plan for assisted service space, it would make this easier to figure out. 

could go to VACI to get innovation money. finding the money for step 1 is easy. but what happens in fiscal year 2020?  getting started isn’t the hard part, it’s following through. 

----

Charles: “Any self service transaction we should also offer an API for” 

if we bring in VetPro and other companies, the ask from these companies would define your strategy.  getting a list of their most requested things they wish they could do and rank them. the software providers probably already had folks in for requirements. 

Brad’s guess is APIing what's in SEP is 80% of what’s needed.  

is there still a need to have VA build a new SEP type experience?  Unclear. 

There has been a meandering strategy in this space. We ought to firmly define one and stick with it. 

----

Disability claims numbers:

- Of those that are submitted via paper (or submitted PDF), are a lot of those generated using software in affiliated VSO world or not?  No. CalVet is filling out VA fillable PDF as well as putting things into their own system. 
- 60-80% of Veterans have POA appointed, but not sure what percentage of POA actually file the claim.  Once you appoint POA, it shows it even if they don't help you with future claims. 
-  Right now, few claims come in through SEP or D2D, but get a lot of claims in where Veterans come into VSOs and print/mail. 
-  most claims are assisted, but most are submitted via paper. 
-  get 30% of all submission through fax. 
-  ~90k transactions per week of various correspondence, with close to 1/3 being fax. 
-  <5% through SEP, D2D, Ebenefits. 
-  95% through central mail. 65% comes by paper mail. 30% fax. 

-----



output we want to drive towards: if we had an API today, what data fields would you want to send to us and to get back?  what transactions they want to complete to then get to the data needed. 

if charles runs it and Denise and Brad support, that will be most effective. 
Molly is Brad’s senior strategy advisor. She will get names of VetPro and other groups such as Texas and CA. Brad will get us assessment on primary 3rd party tools in the space and key contacts. All to be sent to Charles. 

IRS built a really basic, mostly one way interface and companies have brought a lot of money into the space. we have a smaller revenue stream. but if we do it right, might get Intuit who runs over and says we want part of that market. 

----

Lonnie: what’s the end state?

Brad: by providing a robust interface, we enable 3rd parties to file claims with VA as well as to see what benefits they have available. 

If we built a good interface, it would enable groups to pull something up when a Veteran walks into their office, they can see everything the Vet gets, could get, things they might be missing. 

End state is one where corporate money is trying to help with better applications and more holistic services. 

