# Personal health care contacts research session
## P6 - 11/16/2023, 2pm ET
### About these notes
- _**bold italics**_ are parts the notetaker could not capture verbatim
- *Italics* represent observations and summaries from notetaker.

## Warm-up and introduction
- Participant doesn’t absolutely rely on AT, but uses it occasionally
- Uses a variety of AT as needed: captions, voice to text, text to voice, etc
- Does not use JAWS
- Joining from a laptop

*Moderator goes through introductions*

*Moderator goes through logistics*

***Recording started**

**Moderator:** Are you comfortable if I record my screen and audio as we talk today?

**P6:** Yeah, I clicked it

**Moderator:** Let’s gets tarted. According to my notes, you do receive health care at a VA facility?

**P6:** Yes. I’m sorry for the distraction, I was looking to see what it’s called. I was looking through my extensions in Chrome It’s called “read out loud”. And PDFs are different, t hat’s just through edge. 

**Moderator:**  Thank you. I appreciate you letting me know, that’s super helpful. Are you using that in the session.

**P6:** I’m not reading anything but I do have captions on right now. And I can read what you’re saying as well as hearing you.

**Moderator:** Got you. Have you received any other benefits with the VA?

**P6:** I have compensation, I have health care, I’ve gotten modifications to my home, I’ve gotten medical equipment, I’ve gotten education benefits, and my family has health benefits.  A home loan. I think that’s it.

**Moderator:** That’s super helpful to know as we move forward in this conversation. Moving on, there are a couple terms, I’m interested to know what they mean to you. What does medical emergency contact mean to you?

**P6:** Um, I think of its my next of kin. The person I want to be called if there is an emergency. If there is a medical emergency. I commonly think of it, my wife, I think of it as the person, like I’m usually with my wife, so then it would be my mother in law. *missed something* But yeah, like my ICE, in case of emergency.

**Moderator:** Got it, But you think of it, if you were to list your medical emergency contact, you would list your mother in law?

**P6:** Yeah, because my wife is usually with me. I work from home, she’s here too.

**Moderator:** As far s you know do you have this on file with the va?

**P6:** Yea, there’s a health care proxy as well. My wife has everything

**Moderator:** As far as you know, this medical emergency contact, how do you expect the VA to use that information?

**P6:** Ethically, haha, just kidding. I expect them to ensure that my next of kin or emergency contact is aware of the emergency, uh to contact them, I guess that’s all I really expect. Is for them to be notified that there’s an emergency. Anything upon that is not to be expected, I guess. But if I’m in the ER or something and I didn’t come accompanied by someone on the list, then they’ll tell one of those two people that I’m there.

**Moderator:** where do you expect to be asked about this? As far as who your medical emergency contact might be?

****P6:**** It’s hard to determine because if I’ve gone myself, the admin person with the little computer on a stand, they’ll ask and if my wife is already there. And I’ve been in the ambulance before, and my wife was there too and she was already aware of the emergency. I guess, if I’m coherent and conscious, they would ask me. I also have this on my phone, my health info and medications, and ICE information.

**Moderator:** On your phone, where do you keep that information?

**P6:** It’s a thing that a person can do. 

**Moderator:** That’s super helpful

**P6:** There is like a button and it pops up in my personal safety and it shows all my stuff. It’s all a person can do, they can call 911 or see my personal safety information, when my phone is locked. Unless they have my password

**Moderator:** And you mentioned next of kin contact when you were talking about medical emergency contact contact. I’m curious what your thoughts are around next of kin. What does that mean to you? Is that the same thing?

**P6:** Yes and no. I connect the wording - next of kin is like if I passed away. medical emergency contact is if we’re in an emergency and we’re still living. That’s the only real defining difference I would say. Also next of kin might not be defined other than the next living relative or a beneficiary, someone that we choose. That might be a friend, not my actual next of kin.

**Moderator:** Thank you for sharing that. In terms of your next of kin do you know if the VA has that information on record?

**P6:** I didn’t know there was a definable difference. I put down, like I said I have al living will, and it’s all connected firstly with my wife, and secondly with my mother-in-law. That’s how I’ve done all my paperwork that I’ve done there.  *pauses* I can’t think right now I’m sorry. *pauses* I’ve been very proactive with all my stuff.

**Moderator:** That all makes sense and thank you for sharing all of that with me. If you wanted to make sure that the VA specifically had the correct medical emergency contact tan dnext of kin on file, where would you go to check that?

**P6:** I’d like to think that I could go to the VA app. Which has only slightly been more convenient to me recently. I’ve only recently just started to use it. Now I have it on my phone and I can use my thumbprint. IN the beginning it was such a hassle. I hate trying to get to it on my computer because I don’t have the thumbprint. But I’d hope it’s there

**Moderator:** Where would you look within the app?

**P6:** Want me to try to troubleshoot or think in my head?

**Moderator:** Thinking in your head is fine for now,

**P6:** So if I remember right on the bottom of it there’s 4 tabs, ones like a profile, benefits, healthcare or something. There are 4 different thingies on the bottom, I can’t remember, but I’d like to think there’s an admin or profile one and I would like to think that’s where I’d go. But it’s not that expansive on the app so I feel like unless I’m in a panic I’d be able to find it. I’d hope. But we usually wait until there’s a problem with the VA.

**Moderator:** Do you think that information would be on a VA website?

**P6:** I would assume, yeah. A lot of times when I search things online and it directs me to a VA website, even if I search it in a search engine and it directs me to a VA website, it’s not as helpful as I would’ve hoped. ***missed verbatim*** it took me forever (for CHAMPVA) to find out all the benefits. We didn’t know that we had to google and google and deep dive until we eventually found all the places where some hospital in Georgia had a good explanation of it. The VA should’ve done that, instead of me trying to go through all the EOB and [figure out the medical copay]

**Moderator:** So you usually go to search?

**P6:** Yes, **_missed it_**  If I use the VA search engine, which I really hate, it tosses you so deep into the VA system **_missed it_** Articles, that’s not what you’re looking for. **[goes on about how search on VA.gov sucks, missing verbatim check recording around the 14 minute mark]**

**Moderator:** That’s super helpful. Let’s go ahead and start sharing.

**P6:** I have to close something first because that’s confidential.

**Moderator:** Sure, you get set up and let me know if you need help.

***screensharing starts about 16 minutes into the recording***

## Tasks

### Task 1: Find emergency contact and NoK information - starts at 16 minutes into recording

**Moderator:** Thank you, now I can see your screen.

*Participant has google chrome open to blank browser tab. Starts typing into serach and has to be directed to browser address bar. Moderator provides link verbally to participant*

*Participant starts on staging.va.gov homepage*

**Moderator:** Great, so this is a test version of VA.gov *explains about the staging website*. Let’s say there is a place on this site to check your medical emergency contact ad next of kin info and you want to check that it’s accurate. Where would you check?

**P6:** I could search but that’s always annoying so I’d drop this down and see what it says, *clicks megamenu, mouses over links* *. Ugh, *hovering over links** 

*missed verbatim, participant is exploring links and expected menus to fly out on hover*

**P6:** I guess I’ll use search. Let’s see if it’s better than what I’m used to.

*participant types emergency, selects typeahead option, then emergency contact update*

*participant lands on results, scrolls down*

**P6:** See what I mean? It does all of this stuff. *mouses over search results*Direct deposit, that looks like it could be something I actually want *hovering over article that says Update DD and Contact information*

*participant is scrolling down page, goes back up, removes the word update and searches again. Clicked on a MHV link, goes back to search results*

**Moderator:** That’s interesting, so it seems like you tried to search but you didn’t really find what you were looking for. 

**P6:** No.

**Moderator:** I’m going to go ahead and direct you to the blue sign in button at the top, and I’m going to have you click in the ID.me *moderator provides credentials and login instructions*

*Participant is logged into the staging site and directed back to search since they started there*

**Moderator:** Now that you’re logged in, you’re still seeing your search results but I’m curious now that you’re logged in is there anywhere you’d go differently?

**P6:** Yeah, probably the my VA or MHV. *clicks on My VA* 

**P6:** I’d go here first because it’s the broader one. *lands on My VA* 

**P6:**  Ok, *reads link* go to profile *scrolls down MY VA and back up* 

**P6:**  Probably my profile *clicks profile, lands on profile hub page* *Mouses over contact info* That’s MY contact *continues down the page* 

**P6:**  Yep, there it is *clicks on personal health care contacts link, goes to page* Yep, there it is, that was a lot easier.

**Moderator:** **_missed it_** 

**P6:** **_missed exact verbtim here_** I don’t really use the VA.gov website, I used to use eBenefits all the time but then I got my 100% and then I didn’t go to it anymore to tell you the truth. And then a couple months back someone told me about the app and it was a little annoying but then I found the biometrics and I was like Oh, yeah. Now I can be lazy forever. Just like my bank You just put your thumb and you’re good.

### Task 2: Review Personal health contacts page - 28 minutes into recording

**Moderator:** *asks participant to review the page*

**P6:** OK, well I see the emergency contact so their name and information *mouses over hint text for next of kin* OK so next of kin is more about if I have any wishes, more specifically where they live. That’s all that’s on this page

**Moderator:** How is this information useful to you?

**P6:** I would say images it so I can see that it’s updated and I can do it myself and I don’t have to wait until there is an emergency. People change their phone numbers.

**Moderator:** If you did need to update th phone number, how would you do it on this screen?

**P6:** **How would I do it on this screen? *scrols down, mouses over FAQ* I guess I’d click here because I’d need to learn *clicks FAQ and reads content*

**P6:** Man that’s horrible! *laughs* you should be able to do it on the website.  Is that really the answer? You need to be able to do it! *laughs* come on. I don’t know what VA line this is *mousing over phone number in FAQ* 

**P6:**  it’s not the one I call at least, that’s not my number, but if it was a normal VA line if I have to call, a health care line, I’d have to wait forever. I’m not going to get into the annoyance of that.  Anytime I get an ext number I’ve very grateful. Anyone gives me their exception I appreciate them a lot because I don’t have to go through all this, It’s just a matter of whether or not someone is at their desk to pick up. **_missed it_**  I’d rather leave a voicemail. That’s why I use MHV **_missed it_**  *(goes on about calling painpoints and communication with MHV. check 32 minutes into recording if you want the verbatim)* 

**P6:** **_missed it_**  They give me the exact link where I need to be. And most likely they just have it in a word document or a bookmark and they just tossed it to me. 

### Task 3: Get insights on expectations - missed time stamp


**Moderator:** That makes a lot of sense. Scrolling down to the medical emergency contact, I’m curious what information under the medical emergency contact would you expect or want to have?

**P6:** Relationship *very confident* There should be a relationship. If a person needs to contact someone there are nuances about how you talk to them. Obviously it depends on who is calling.  Maybe email but that may be an extra unnecessary thing, but I don’t ‘know. I might be asking for too much meaning that email could always be good because someone could be sent or texted an address. They might have zero clue where the VA hospital is and it’d be nice to have it sent to them instead of them trying to look it up while they’re driving. 

**Moderator:** How many emergency contact would you expect to have listed here? 

**P6:** I would’ve thought 2. The primary and a secondary. 

**Moderator:** Tell me more about that

**P6:** Well the first person might not answer. If they don’t answer you’ve got no body. And how often will they keep calling them back? Idk their procedures. 

**Moderator:** Lets scroll down to the next of kin? I’m going to ask you the same questions *asks same questions*

**P6:** Being that they’re a person you’re asking to represent your health care wishes, maybe is there a healthcare proxy or living will on file, and if no, maybe theres’s link to fill out the form. Maybe there’s an appt to get it done, or you have to go to notary, but some kind of resource. Some people might just see that here and *****missed it***** at least information about it, what is a living will, should I have one, how can I set up an appointment?

**Moderator:** Any other information you’d want to have there?

**P6:** Let’s see theres’a. Name, an address a phone number *long pause* the email might be perfectly necessary but if you do an email you can always send whatever copy like a confirmation, well I guess email would begged because you could always send an email to sam smith or Paul Revere (names in staging contact) that so and so put you down as an emergency contact, as next of kin. Or maybe a copy of the advance directive or their wishes.

**Moderator:** How many next of kin would you expect to have here?

**P6:** Maybe 2? And that would go back to the healthcare proxy or living will..***missed it*** 

**P6:** a primary or secondary option. Maybe even marking them with the words primary and secondary. With insurance documents that’s how it works. You have the first one, and then you have executors ands tuff

**Moderator:** And I know you shared that you also used some education benefits and there were some VA loan things as well. Is this information that we’re looking at here related to those benefits as well?

**P6:** No

**Moderator:** How do you know that?

**P6:** Cus there’s nothing that tells me anything about it.  Now this is my opinion, but this came up a couple years ago I had a health care and it made me thinks that there is nothing that really initiates with my next of kin, really. I mean, my wife has to do the work, like submitting the death certificate. But this happened with my father-in-law, and he died at a VAMC and the death certificate had to be sent back to the VA to initiate survivor benefits and all that, but you’d think that could’ve just started there. Because they know he died, he died there.  You’d think there could be something in the system to kick that off, maybe there could be something there when it comes to next of kin too. I don’t’ know the best way to explain it but there are definitely things that are left that shouldn’t have to happen. It’s already a scary thing if I pass away. Most of my income is VA. If we don’t get the insurance stuff, my wife will be destitute really quick ***missed it*** most of my insurance is from VA, so if I die it’ll be on VA’s dime *(missed some of this, we’re at the 41 minute mark in the recording)*

**Moderator:** *missed some of this* Do you have any more questions for me?

**P6:** *long pause* No, I don’t think so.

**Moderator:** *wraps session*
