
# Session and participant information
* P1: male
* Device: ipad
* Date: 11/14/2023 / 9am ET

## Warm-up questions - 5-8 minutes
 
M: Let’s get started.

M: Can you confirm what type of device you're on today? 

* **P1: I'm on an iPad.**

M: According to my notes you do currently receive health care at a VA health facility. Is that correct?

* **P1: That's correct, I do.**

M: Thank you. Have you received any other VA benefits? (note which benefits to be used later in study) 

* **P1: I also currently have a disability benefit that I receive. But that's it, I think.**

M: Great, that’ll be helpful to know as we move forward.

M: There are a couple of terms I’m curious to talk to you about. I’m interested to know what they mean to you.  

M: First, what does “medical emergency contact” mean to you?  

* **P1: it means I would have access - quick access - to the VA to be able to get a hold of someone to be able to talk to them right away.** 

M: Gotcha, so that would be you calling someone to talk to them directly. Gotcha. Yeah, that makes sense.

M: What does “Next of kin contact” mean to you?  

* **P1: It means that if I gave that directive that someone should be my next of kin, that with my approval that person could talk to someone at the VA on my behalf.** 

M: As far as you know, do you have that information in your VA record?

* **P1: Good question, I believe I do but I do not know for sure.**
  
M: How would you check on that information? 

* **P1: I would probably go to My HealtheVet first. I think there is a "Blue Button" that gives me access to a lot of things. I would try that first. And if all else fails I would call someone. Or I might try VA.gov**
  
M: Where or when do you expect to be asked about this?

* **P1: Possibly if I was having a surgery or some sort of medical appointment where...umm...god forbid something should happen and they might need to contact a next of kin.** 

M: Can you go ahead and tell me how you woudl check that the VA has the correct next of kin information on file? 

* **P1: Again, I would go to My Healthevet.com and look up my person information there. If it's there, great. If not and I could enter that information there, I would enter it. If it isn't there, I would try VA.gov and if not there, I would try and call the VA to see if they could assist.** 

M: Thank you for sharing that. And where on VA.gov would you check? 

* **P1: Probably under my profile or account information.**

M: Thank you for sharing that. That's interesting. I have a website that I would like to share with you to see if you could show me where you would look for that. 

## Tasks

### Task 1: Find EC and NoK information - 10 minutes/15 minutes AT

M: This is a test version of VA.gov. It looks like the real website and we have turned some special features on for our session. Nothing we do here will impact your actually information and you will see it has test data (like a made up name) in certain parts of the site. 

*[Moderator walks participant through screen sharing on their iPad]*

M: Now that we're here, can you go ahead and show me where you would check for that next of kin information on the site? 

* **P1: Well, the first thing I would probably have to do is sign in.** 

*[Moderator walks participant through entering credentials to login to staging website]*

M: Great, I’d like for you to continue show me how to find this information from this page (VA.gov)?

* **P1: *[Logs in and arrives on MyVA page]* "I'm just looking for anything that my say 'next of kin'" and if I can't find it, I might just go to search.** 

M: Okay, go ahead and do that.

* **P1: [searches "next of kin" in site-search] Okay, so in my search results I am seeing burial information but no next of kin. I see a lot of stuff but nothing that zeroes in on it. Hmm...I might just go to My HealtheVet and try that.**

M: So this is, again, not your actual account, so I guess it's not taking you there. But that's helpful to show us that you would go to My HealtheVet. 

M: Okay, so I think when we talked before you mentione dthat you would go to Profile on VA.gov. Can you show me how you might get there from here?

* **P1: Umm, so I think I would click on "VA Benefits and Health Care" *[clicks the mega menu]* I'm going to try selecting Records, VA benefits for spouses, dependents, survivors..."  I just went from VA benefits to family benefits. I might try that as well...oh wait. I see "Use VA Blue Button to manage your records online." I would try that.** 

M: This is super helpful, thank you for sharing that. Do you see the upper right corner that says "Charlene" in top of the site? Can you click that? 

* **P1: Yes, ohhhh I am Charlene when I'm logged in here. Got it.** 


### Task 2: Review Personal health contacts page - 8 minutes

M: Yeah, because it is just a prototype. Now that you're on the profile, If you were looking to update your information for an emergency contact or next of kin, what would you click here in the profile? 

* **P1: I would click contact information. I see address, home, email address, phone numbers.**

M: And who is this information about? 

* **P1: It's about me. But I guess it doesn't specifically say whose phone numbers they are for. There is no next of kin information specifically called out. *[goes back to profile landing page]***

* **P1: What else would I have clicked? I also see personal health care contacts. *[clicks that option from profile landing page].* Oh, medical emergency contact and next of kin contact. Here we go.** 

M: Could you tell me how you'd update this information? 

* **P1: I would click this part about "learn how to update your personal health care contact information." Hmm, says I can ask a staff member for help or call a phone number. IT doesn't look like I can do it myself.**

M: Would you expect to be able to do it yourself? 

* **P1: well, I would expect information or instructions about how to be able to do it myself. IT's fine with me like this but it would be nice if I could do it myself on this website.** 

M: Coming back to medical emergency contact, what do you think that's about. Who is that?

* **P1: Yeah, if I were to have a medical procedure, that's a person they could contact to give them information about what's going on on my behalf.** 

* **P1: But it could be a person that I could call right away if I were having a medical emergency instead of 911.** 

M: Gotcha, it would be a person listed for you to contact. 

  * **P1: yeah, exactly - because the next of kin would be someone that the VA could contact if something were happening to me and they needed to have a person make decisions on my behalf.** 

M: Gotcha, so this Sam Smith would be who? A medical doctor, or what?

* **P1: You got me there, I suppose it could be anybody that you'd want to contact if you were having an emergency. If I were having a medical emergency it would be tough for me to log into this website to get that information and get this emergency contact. It would be easier for me to just call 911.**

M: Absolutely, yes, and that's what you should do. What about the next of kin?

* **P1: I think this is the one person who the VA could contact to speak to them and tell them this is what's happening, this person has designated you as their next of kin and we need a decision from you to find out what to do next.**

### Task 3: Get insights on expectations - 5 minutes 

M: There is one next-of-kin listed here on this website. How many next-of-kin would you expect to have listed here? 

* **P1: Probably 2-3 I think? Hmm...depends on...I would say at least 2. I think in my case if you are married you want to list your spouse. Or if you have children you may want to list them and you might have more than one. Or it could be a sibling.** 

M: And why would you want to list more than 1 if it were your children or a sibling? 

* **P1: Maybe if you weren't able to contact the first one, you'd be able to contact the second one. It's not always easy to contact some one. You know, it depends on how quickly you need to contact somebody. But 2...I would say 2 for sure.** 

M: What information for the next-of-kin is useful to have here? to display? 

* **P1: Phone number...and address, I don't know about demographics like age or anything. That might not be helpful - they could always ask that when they call. It's probably helpful if they're across the country if they need to travel to see this person. Their demographics, you know, like as far as location goes, might be helpful. If a second next of kin is in California and you couldn't reach the first one, then it's just informational about who you're talking to and where they're located.** 

M: You mentioned earlier that you get disability benefits. 

* **P1: Yes**

M: Is the information on this page related to those disability benefits as well? 

* **P1: Umm..I wouldn't think so, no.** 

M: Why not? Tell me more about that.

* **P1: Well, umm..I would think that that's more of a...like you could have a next of kin who is someone other than my spouse. But I might not necessarily want them to know that I'm getting disability benefits. So it's more of a personal thing for who you want to know about if you're getting a disability benefit and whether you want to share that or not. At least, that's the way that I look at it. I don't see anything under here that they would need to know about a disability. But I suppose on an ongoing basis, I suppose if something were to happen - like if I were to pass away or something - maybe the VA would contact them anyway for social security benefits or something that would stop that benefit. But I don't see anything here that would dictate that.** 

M: Gotcha. Let's go back to that medical emergency contact for a minute. If I were to tell you that this person is for a hospital to call if something happened - as a person that you put down - for the VA to contact. 

* **P1: Oh, gotcha - it does say that right there "the person we'll contact in an emergency."** 

M: I wondered if you could tell me a little bit about that and why that's on there? 

* **P1: Gotcha, I was thinking about it as I'm having the emergency, and I need this information, rather than this being what the VA sees about who to contact.** 

M: Yeah, that makes sense. So, thinking about it that way - that this is who the VA will contact in the case of an emergency - can you tell me a little bit about how many emergency contacts would you expect or want to see here? 

* **P1: I think 2-3 contacts, again, like this one here you are trying to get a hold of somebody right away in an emergency. So obviously if you are married it would be your spouse I would think. And then maybe 2 more as back-ups. So I would think 2-3.** 

M: Thanks for sharing that. And what information for each contact would you want or expect to see? 

* **P1: Umm, yeah, so ok - name, relationship, phone #. Maybe 2 numbers, I don't know - cell phone and work numbers. I am retired though so I don't even have a work number so I don't know. Let's see, what else? I think that would be it. I'm sure I'm missing something, but...**

M: So in addition to the information here you would expect to be able to see the relationship? 

* **P1: Yeah, that's right.** 

M: Okay, anything else? 

* **P1: No, I think that would be it. I'm sure I'm missing something *[laughs]***

M: What about, like, having the address there, for both. Like, as you mentioned, the address is in the next of kin contact, but not the emergency contact. So I'm just curious to get your thoughts on that. 

* **P1: Yeah, it might be helpful to have so they can see the proximity of where that person lives, so that if that person needs to physically come to that location to the VA, they may - I'm not sure if it would be prioritized like 1, 2, 3, as well - but if you need someone to come to that location the address might be important. Although you could always just ask that person for their info as well. It wouldn't hurt, that's for sure.** 

## Post-task interview questions - 5 minutes

M: Okay, that makes a lot of sense. And that's most of the questions that I had for you around this screen that we looked at. but I'm just curious, is there anything that we looked at today or that we haven't talked about that you'd like to talk about? Or do you have any questions about what we looked at? 

* **P1: Umm...no, not really. See, once you input that information into either one of these categories, it becomes sort of self-evident as to what you [the VA] are looking for. So now there's information that's in there and you're asking me to look at it (because I myself haven't [actually] put it in there). But I think it's pretty clear as to the meaning of both of these things - the medical emergency contact and the next of kin contact information.** 

M: Right - it's a little disorienting to see fake information in there. 

* **P1: Right, like if there was another session where someone had me input it and you had a way to see how they would enter it in real time instead, that maybe different.** 

M: Gotcha, yes that makes a lot of sense. Great suggestion. This has been super helpful. Thanks for all of your information - do you have any more questions for me? 

* **P1: Yeah, for travel pay I think they said they are getting rid of checks for travel pay and yo uhave to have a direct deposit. I"m going to pull my hair out. I'll be calling the VA for that one. 
Being able to get to something directly is good too. Because I would go to My HealtheVet and click blue button, but it puts me into anothe rsystem where I have to log in. So in general to streamline it as much as possible is the best.** 

M: I am so sorry for your frustration there, I agree with you and that makes sense. We'll continue working on that. We really appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts today. Have a wonderful rest of your day.
