## Warm-up questions - 5-8 minutes
 
Let’s get started.

According to my notes you [do/do not] currently receive health care at a VA health facility. Is that correct?



Thank you. Have you received any other VA benefits? (note which benefits to be used later in study) 



Great, that’ll be helpful to know as we move forward.



There are a couple of terms I’m curious to talk to you about. I’m interested to know what they mean to you.  



First, what does “medical emergency contact” mean to you?  

- As far as you know, do you have that information in your VA record?

  
- How do you know?

  
- How do you expect the VA to use that information?

  
- Where or when do you expect to be asked about this?

Thank you. What does “Next of kin contact” mean to you?  

- As far as you know, do you have that information in your VA record?
  
- How do you know?
  
- How do you expect the VA to use that information?

- Where or when do you expect to be asked about this?

## Tasks

### Task 1: Find EC and NoK information - 10 minutes/15 minutes AT

Thank you for sharing all of that with me! 

Tell me, how would you check to ensure the VA has the correct medical emergency contact and next of kin information on file? 

_if said, they'd ask someone_ If there was no one available to talk to, how would you confirm this information online?

- Do you think that information would be on any VA websites? Which one? 

- Interesting - I have a specific website where I want to see if you can find that information

- Let’s start screen sharing so you can show me how you’d do that. Are you familiar with how to share your screen with Zoom? 

#### Screen sharing instructions

Great, now I can see your screen! 

Thank you for your patience in figuring this out.  Now let's go to that website. I can post the URL in the chat or just say it to you. Which of you prefer? 

- This is a test version of VA.gov. It looks like the real website and we have turned some special features on for our session. Nothing we do here will impact your actually information and you will see it has test data (like a made up name) in certain parts of the site. 
  
- So, Please go ahead and show me how you’d check the “medical emergency contact” and "next of kin contact" information on this site? 

_If participant mentions or attempts to sign in_ send credentials   

_If participant does not attempt to sign in_Let them explore a bit 
- If you signed in, do you think anything different would be available?
  
_Guide participant to sign in_
- Now please click the "sign in" button in the top right corner and I'll put the credentials you should use to log in the chat (or say them verbally) 
- Great, I’d like for you to continue show me how to find this information from this page (VA.gov)?

### Task 2: Review Personal health contacts page - 8 minutes

2. _Once the person arrives on Profile:_

_If had to be directed to Profile_From here_: If you wanted to review the information VA has on file for who to contact if you're hospitalized, where would you go?
  
_If arrived in the _Personal health care contacts_ section of Profile_

- Why don't you spend a little time getting to know this page. Please think out loud and let me know what your thoughts are about the page, the information here, and how everything is organized.
  
- What do you think this page is all about?
  
- If needed, and applicable: You shared that you also have [XYZ] benefits from VA. Is this information related to those benefits too?
  
- How is this information useful to you?
  
- Let’s pretend you need to update a phone number for your next of kin, how would you go about doing that? 

_If not mentioned or engaged with "Learn how to update your personal health care contacts"_ 

- Towards the top of the screen, it says "Learn how to update your personal health care contact information" - Can you navigate back to that and click on it?
  
- What does this information tell you? 

### Things to note 
- Is it clear that the “Personal health care contacts” only pertain to health care? 
- Is it clear to users how to update their information? 
- Any struggles or confusion?

### Task 3: Get insights on expectations - 5 minutes 

- What information for your Emergency contact would you expect/want to have here? Why?
  
   - How many Emergency contacts do you want/expect to list/have? Why?

   - What do you expect to be able to do with this information on this page? 

- What about next of kin, What information for your next of kin would you expect/want to have here? Why?
  
   - How many next of kin would you expect/want to have here?
 
     
   - What information would be useful to have here? Why? 

## Post-task interview questions - 5 minutes

For participants who don’t currently receive health care: I know you said you don’t currently receive health care at VA. Why do you think you see this information in your profile?

Is there anything else that we haven't talked about that you’d like to share?


Do you have any questions for me before we wrap up?
