# Session and participant information
* P3: male
* Device: Apple computer
* Date: 11/15/2023 at 11am ET

## Warm-up questions - 5-8 minutes

#### VA Healthcare? 
I don't go on a regular basis because I have health care. I would use it if there was something that was gonna cost me a lot of money but I don't use it because it's a long drive. 

#### Other benefits?
Currently no, but I have in the past. I went to school on the GI Bill and I bought my first home with the VA benefits. 

#### First, what does “medical emergency contact” mean to you?
MEC would be a nmae of somebody or a contact person if I had a medical emergency while I was at the VA. I doubt there'd be an individual assigned to me but that's what it means. One thing I do that I haven't mentioned is I'm very active in my American Legion and I take other people over there and I know the medical emergency contact is a number they can call if something were to happen. If there were a heart attack or stroke, they say take him to the local hospital and then they went to the VA afterward after they were settled. 

#### What about Next of Kin?
That they want on record somebody in the event something would happen. It could be a wife, a relative, wouldn't have to be a relative, could be an appointed guardian that they just did power of attorney with. If anything were to occur, this would be the person they contact to make a final decision. This can happen because people can be on medical devices ... Next of kin does not have to be a relative and that's where confusion comes in.

#### As far as you know, do you have that information in your VA record?
Myself? You know I don't know if I've updated that or not. I'll just be honest about it. I just made a note to do it. I would probably just have to go online and check because I'm capable of doing that. I don't know, I may have done it already, I just don't remember. But I made a note to check and see because I should have done that already. 
  
#### Where would you check?
Would go online and follow the prompts to check. 

#### What does emergency contact mean to you?
Emergency contact: in the event of an emergency it could be your relative, wife, a brother or sisiter. Doesn't have to be a relative but you have someone designated in an emergency. And that is very ijportant that people set that up because things occur and if you don't have that set up it's going to become a court issue.

#### Where would you check?
I would go online and usually there's a prompt to take you there. What I have set up in my paperwork, there's my wife and my daughter. I think I've set it up with the VA but I'm not sure. 

#### Where online?
I would just login to the VA online and follow the prompts. Sometimes the questions will ask you what you're looking for and I'd simply type that in. Without having the screen in front of me, I know there are prompts that tell you where to go. It's pretty simplistic. 

## Tasks

### Task 1: Find EC and NoK information - 10 minutes/15 minutes AT


#### Tell me, how would you check to ensure the VA has the correct medical emergency contact and next of kin information on file? 

I'd login > (My VA) page > "None of this is pertinent to me." "I'd go to the next step." "I'd assume there'd be a prompt and I'd want to click in to additional VA information. And I would click on something that would take me to the next screen." "Under benefits possibly." "I don't think that's the right place now that I think about it. Additional information if they had a slot for that, that's where I'd go." "Usually there's a help screen and that's where I would go next. Typically there's a help screen and I would click on that and they'd prompt you with questions and that sort of thing and you type in what you're trying to find." 

Jonathan redirects him to look at profile landing page. Where would you go from here?

"I'd start probably with managing my personal information." "Well because it's asking those questions and I think that's where I'd start."

Then notices medical emergency under personal health care contacts, "I didn't read. Now that I look at it, that's clearly where I would go." 

"It's got the name and the phone number and if that would be incorrect, you would change. In my case, I'm not sure I've set this up so it probably says nothing. So I'd put my name and information in there" 

#### How would you change this? 
"I'd assume there's be a place if you clicked in, it would have a way to change it." If couldn't update it here, "Would go to contact information." 

"Websites are set up for people that are computer gurus. Not just the VA. I want to change personal information, contacts, make it simple."

"You should be able to click on it to make a change and it should give you the option."

### Task 3: Get insights on expectations - 5 minutes 

#### What would change for MEC
"Physical address could be important. Sometimes people don't answer the phone so if you had the email address as well as the actual address, then you have three ways to get in contact with somebody. Because they could have changed their phone number and then you woulnd't be able to get in contact with them and they wouldn't know where to go."

"I would think there should be at least two, a primary and a secondary. For the reason I just gave, so they'd have two places to go."

#### What would change for NOK

"I'd want a name, address, an email address if they have it, because phone numbers do change, we know that. And I would want a back-up, a primary and a secondary because on the paperwork, that's what I have. My wife and I are on a flight and the place crashes, my next of kin is gone so they need to get in contact with my daughter. There's needs to be a back-up, a primary and a secondary." 

#### What about other benefits, would this info apply to those?

"I don't see how it's related to the GI bill, it could be. I haven't read the GI bill in ages. Originally it was education and purchasing of a home."

"It's two different things, it's emergency contact and next of kin, and you don't need to use the other VA benefits to use those. This is just for different situations."

"Well, it could be a situation where VA has longterm care for people and I've helped a couple people do that. When I was helping this one individual he did not have money to go into a private." 

"We have time to do this." "It's longterm, it's not necessarily an emergency, it's that they know exactly what you want." - NOK
"It's an emergency" - MEC


