# Personal health care contacts research session
## P7 - 11/20/2023, 10am ET

## Warm-up and introduction
- Joining from a laptop
- Does not receive VA health care
- Using GI bill right now

*Moderator goes through introductions*

*Moderator goes through logistics*

***Recording started**

**Moderator:** There are a couple terms I'm curious to talk to you about. First, what does the term medical emergency contact mean to you?

**P7:** Would be information of someone that you would want contacted in case you were sent to the hospital or incapacitated in some way. The first person you'd want top know, I would think.

**Moderator:** As far as you know, do you have that information in your VA record? 

**P7:** [laughs] I think so? But I don't know, I really don't know.

**Moderator:** How would you check?

**P7:** I'd prob ably go to the VA.gov website  first and see if it's on there. I was thinking, I don't know why I would need to update it. THat's my first thought, they probably have it, but it's old. They probably have her current number but not her address. 

**Moderator:** When and where would you expect to be asked about this?

**P7:** If I had applied for disability maybe, or if I was being seen at the VA I guess?

**Moderator:** What about the term next of kin contact. What does that mean to you?

**P7:** Kinda the same thing. Whereas the medical emergency contact is one where you chhoose. The next of kin thing seems more like a legal status. I don't choose my next of kin. My brother is my next of kin. Or maybe it's my wife? 

**Moderator:** .... [missed verbatim]

**P7:** So if something wasn't set by me, if they did a nxxt of kin thing, I'd assume it'd go to my legal spouse but if she was also in the emergency with me, it would go to my father I guess? Or maybe my mother or maybe both? 

**Moderator:** Do you have next of kin in your VA record? 

**P7:** I would have thought that when I made the login and put in all my info for the VA initially that they would've gotten my wife's name initially but maybe not my parents.

**Moderator:** How would you expect the VA to use the next of kin information? 

**P7:** If they weren't able to get ahold of the emergency contact that I had designated, then they'd start going down the list of legal next of kin contacts. 

**Moderator:** You might have already answered this but where or when would you expect to be asked about the next of kin information. 

**P7:** I think it'd be when I'm applying for medical benefits. 

**Moderator:** How would you check that the VA has the correct emergency medical contact

**P7:** My first instinct would be to go to the VA.gov website and I'd hope it'd be easy eno0ugh to find on the profile or something and if I didn't see it I'd call them or something.

***screensharing starts about 10 minutes into the recording***

*Moderator helps participant get logged into staging.

## Tasks

### Task 1: Find emergency contact and NoK information - starts at 16 minutes into recording

**P7:** The first thing I think is to go to profile and then I'd look for stuff here. Personal health care contacts, I would think. And bada bing, there it is.

**Moderator:** Okay, great. Now that you've arrived on this page, spend some time getting to know it. 

**P7:** It's pretty simple, not a lot going on. I've got the one medical emergency contact with tjust a couple pieces of information. And then the next of kin contact with way more information under that. And that seems to be all there is on this page, except for this here that says how to update it. Oh, okay. I guess I'd expect to see a little gear that I could click to edit myself but looks like it's a little more involved than that. 

**Moderator:** How would you change it? 

**P7:** I guess I'd need to ask a staff person at my next appt. Hopefully it's not too difficult after that. 

**Moderator:** Let's go ahead and, if you go to medical emergency contact, let's focus on that for a minute. What information under MEC would you want to have displayed there?

**P7:** As much information as I have given them. Maybe that's all I'd given them, a name and a phone number. It's nice that it spells it out. It's nice to see that they spell out what these are. I might not know what NOK is. 

**Moderator:** 

**P7:** I don't think I'd need any more than 2.

**Moderator:** Why's that?

**P7:** Just for redundancy I guess, there's a chance my wife works over time and she doesn't find out what happened to me.

**Moderator:** What info would you expect to see here. 

**P7:** Pretty much the same thing, whatever information I gave them that I thought was enough. 

**Moderator:** How many NOK contacts would you need? 

**P7:** Probably two, if they're unable to get ahold of the first person in any case, then there's a back-up. 

**Moderator:** What do you think abouty having a profile on VA.gov even though you don't receive health care from teh VA

**P7:** If the VA asked me to set it up and I remembered to do, I would set it up and would probably never look at it again I think. That's probably exactly what happened. 

**Moderator:** Woiuld hte info you see here pertain to the GI bill as well?

**P7:** I'm not sure. If there'd be an instance where they'd need to get ahold of me, like if there was an issue with my information being out of date if they would go to my emergency contact of not. I wouldn't think so, it does say medical [emphasizes] emergency contact. 

**Moderator:** Any other thoughts about what we've seen today? 

**P7:** It's really easy to get to.

**Moderator:** Any thing else about VA.gov? 

**P7:** I don't believe so. The screen that I came to initially this morning through me off guard bc I have used VA.gov before so I'm not sure if I need to use a different credential or what. [had a weird error a few times when trying to sign in this morning]

**Moderator:** You could call the helpdesk. [tries to help troubleshoot]


