Notetaker: Pam Drouin

P4 details
- mobile (iPhone) participant

## Warm-up questions - 5-8 minutes
 
Let’s get started.

According to my notes you [do not] currently receive health care at a VA health facility. Is that correct?
-  That’s correct, I use Tricare Prime so I am able to use a local doctor and healthcare facility for my medical care.

Thank you. Have you received any other VA benefits? (note which benefits to be used later in study) 
- Disability comp

Great, that’ll be helpful to know as we move forward.
There are a couple of terms I’m curious to talk to you about. I’m interested to know what they mean to you.  

First, what does “medical emergency contact” mean to you? 
- It’s someone who I designate as someone to call or contact if I have an medical emergency and I can’t make it to the phone.

- As far as you know, do you have that information in your VA record?
	- Do not know

- How do you know?
	- How would you check?
		- Log into VA.gov and go somewhere having to do with medical benefits?

- How do you expect the VA to use that information?
	- not asked

- Where or when do you expect to be asked about this?
	- Tricare, if I’m using the benefits. Not sure if VA.gov has the information.
	- [missed this] something about referrals, check recording

Thank you. What does “Next of kin contact” mean to you?  
- Means to me anyone like a brother, sister, son, daughter that would be notified about a medical emergency other than a spouse. 
	- Why not spouse? 
		- Kin usually means blood

- As far as you know, do you have that information in your VA record?
	- Do not know

- How do you know? How would you check?
	- Probably go to a location on the website having to do with death benefits because that’s who’d be notified about any matters after my passing.

- How do you expect the VA to use that information?
	- not asked

- Where or when do you expect to be asked about this?
	- not asked

Where would you go?
- VA.gov website and search for next of kin or emergency contact.
- Would go to VA.gov

## Tasks

### Task 1: Find EC and NoK information - 10 minutes/15 minutes AT

Thank you for sharing all of that with me! 
Tell me, how would you check to ensure the VA has the correct medical emergency contact and next of kin information on file? 
_if said, they'd ask someone_ If there was no one available to talk to, how would you confirm this information online?
- Do you think that information would be on any VA websites? Which one? 
- Interesting - I have a specific website where I want to see if you can find that information
- Let’s start screen sharing so you can show me how you’d do that. Are you familiar with how to share your screen with Zoom? 

#### Screen sharing instructions

Great, now I can see your screen! 

Thank you for your patience in figuring this out.  Now let's go to that website. I can post the URL in the chat or just say it to you. Which of you prefer? 
- This is a test version of VA.gov. It looks like the real website and we have turned some special features on for our session. Nothing we do here will impact your actually information and you will see it has test data (like a made up name) in certain parts of the site. 
  
- So, Please go ahead and show me how you’d check the “medical emergency contact” and "next of kin contact" information on this site? 
	- P4 went directly to PHCC section via card.
		- Why? 
			- Saw what each one contained, and then this one had the information I needed.

_If participant mentions or attempts to sign in_ send credentials   
_If participant does not attempt to sign in_Let them explore a bit 
- If you signed in, do you think anything different would be available?
_Guide participant to sign in_
- Now please click the "sign in" button in the top right corner and I'll put the credentials you should use to log in the chat (or say them verbally) 
- Great, I’d like for you to continue show me how to find this information from this page (VA.gov)?
### Task 2: Review Personal health contacts page - 8 minutes

2. _Once the person arrives on Profile:_
_If had to be directed to Profile_From here_: If you wanted to review the information VA has on file for who to contact if you're hospitalized, where would you go?
_If arrived in the _Personal health care contacts_ section of Profile_
- Why don't you spend a little time getting to know this page. Please think out loud and let me know what your thoughts are about the page, the information here, and how everything is organized.
  
- What do you think this page is all about?
	- To designate someone. It could be the same person for both, I guess. I would want my spouse to handle or represent my health care wishes as well, so it wasn’t what I was thinking before (blood relation). If this next of kin was outside… I don’t know… I thought they were going to be different things, but I would put the same person for both if I were married.
	- How are they different to you?
		- Med emergency is if I suddenly went to the ER, they’d be the first person to contact.
		- NK could be the same person. Immediately contact EC, and once they know what’s going on, NK would be the person who, if you’re in a coma or need surgery, those are the people who would make those decisions based on what they’d think I would want tdone.
		  
- If needed, and applicable: You shared that you also have [XYZ] benefits from VA. Is this information related to those benefits too?
	- not asked; n/a
	  
- How is this information useful to you?
	- Right now, since I don’t have medical care through the VA, I don’t know if this would be immediately useful to me. if I transferred to a VA medical facility, it would be beneficial to have on record. [something about primary care]. If I updated this once, and something changed, I wouldn’t know to update it since I am getting care elsewhere.
	  
- Let’s pretend you need to update a phone number for your next of kin, how would you go about doing that?
	- Update button [which seems missing]

[I missed the question here] 

_If not mentioned or engaged with "Learn how to update your personal health care contacts"_ 
- Towards the top of the screen, it says "Learn how to update your personal health care contact information" - Can you navigate back to that and click on it?
	- What does this information tell you? 

### Things to note 
- Is it clear that the “Personal health care contacts” only pertain to health care? 
	- I believe so
- Is it clear to users how to update their information? 
	- Yes, P4 expected to see a button to edit the information
- Any struggles or confusion?
	- None

### Task 3: Get insights on expectations - 5 minutes 

How to update EC?
- Went to Profile menu, then clicked on “Learn how” information link. It doesn’t look like I have the ability to update it here. Would expect an add or edit button, but I could just do this at my next appointment. Part of checking in is confirming/updating information and things are updated then. 
- What info would you want here?
	- Relation to who they are to you. Same SMith, if I had the last name Swith, could be my wife or my son.
- How many? 
	- One at a minimum, but two because an alternate is a good to have.

NK – M asked similar questions
- What’s missing?
	- Would like relationship here too.
- How many contacts? 
	- Two, because a lot of times medical decisions need to be made, and if you’re waiting for a return call, an alternate person would be helpful, because I would want to be treated right away. Always good with primary and alternate. Just one is not beneficial at all.
## Post-task interview questions - 5 minutes

- Anything else missing?
	- Would like address to be included under EC to indicate the proximity of the EC to the facility. Would help the staff to know whether someone is in or out of state.
- Anything else?
	- Would like more information about each, as well as examples of what each pertain. What types of things would constitute the person representing on your behalf.
- When you say MEC – is that someone the VA will contact
	- Someone in the local area. People wear bracelets. if someone can’t speak, it’s probably someone local. That’s why you need to put the relationship here. It depends on the emergency. 
- The ability to have the update here vs having to call a phone number. If someone sees call 1-800… a lot of times people don’t want to call on the phone. it’d save a lot of time to do it online.
