

# 2023-11-16-P5
**Background:** Female, lives in rural area living on a homestead and rarely uses computer. Typically uses the phone to access the internet.  Use screen-reader software to navigate the computer. Right now using Windows narrator (it is different than TalkBack). If I was on my phone, I would be on TalkBack - which is easier to get through than Windows Narrator because I don't know the shortcuts. 

*[Perigean asked her to connect with desktop. We start the conversation with that, but have ongoing issues with bandwidth dropping the call. P5 rejoins the call on her mobile device and we attempt to screen-share with that, but ultimately just verbally ask as many questions as we can]*

## Warm-up questions - 5-8 minutes
 
Let’s get started.

M: According to my notes you do currently receive health care at a VA health facility. Is that correct?

**P5: Yes and no. I am community care. So it is through VA but it is community care because I live in a rural area.** 

M: Gotcha, so you see someone in the community through your VA benefits? 

**P5: Yes**

M: Gotcha, that makes sense. What other benefits do you receive, if any?

**P5: I am retired, I am 100% disabled and blind, it was a chemical TBI that caused the blindness. The eyes are not destroyed, but the brain connection to the eyes is severed. So I am legally blind, but not for dark.**

M: Gotcha, thank you so much for sharing that.

M: There are a couple of terms I’m curious to talk to you about. I’m interested to know what they mean to you.  First, what does “medical emergency contact” mean to you? 

**P5: Medical emergency contact? The contact is someone I wish for the medical professional to call if I have an emergency situation.** 

M: As far as you know, do you have that information in your VA record?

**P5: Yes**

M: How do you know that?

**P5: They asked me and I typed it in.** 

M: Gotcha. You may have already answered this question, but when and where do you expect to give that information?

**P5: At the facility. When I check-in. Or when I go to a VA facility, when they do a review of records they may ask. But otherwise I am never asked about it.**

M: Thank you. What about the term “Next of kin contact” - what does that mean to you?  

**P5: Who they contact if I die.**

M: And what about that? Does the VA have that information in your record?

**P5: I am unsure about that.**

M: How would you check on that? 

**P5: I would check on the VA website or on the My HealtheVet.**

M: You'd check My HealtheVet?

**P5: Well, that doesn't work always. They are changing the systems. The last time I tried to change something in my profile, I was on 5 or 6 VA websites and the logins kept making me login. Login.gov and Id.me - it sent me in circles a few times. I never got where I was trying to get, but I found a phone number and finally got help from that. .... they talked to me for a little bit and I lost connection and they called me back when I couldn't get through.**
  
M: That is really frustrating, I'm sorry. So to come back to the VA website - you would normally check the My HealtheVet website? 

**P5: Yes, that's normally the health login I would use. But now the logins have changed. There is a new login so I tried to get that new login. So now I have like 4-5 different logins. I try to keep the same password, but anytime I go in and it has been 60 days or 90 days, it makes me do a different password. So now my passwords are all different because I am not sure which one they want.** 

M: That's so frustrating. Definitely not the experience we are trying to create on Va.gov so I apologize for that. Coming back to Va.gov and next of kin contacts and emergency contacts, I'd like to see where you would look for that online. I'd like you to share your screen with me. Do you know how to do that? 

**P5: The green "go" button.** 

M: Great, let's see if that works. And we have Angela here to help us if you need assistance. 

***[P5 starts screen-sharing. There is an issue with another program pop-up in front of the browser window. Spend a few minutes trying to get that out of the way.]***

## Tasks 

M: I know we just had to deal with all that technical stuff. We are just going to talk through that now. So to re-ground us, we were talking about medical emergency contacts and Next of Kin contacts. I know you were not able to login and screenshare, but could you talk us through how you would look for that?

**P5: I would go to Va.gov and click the sign-in button and it brings me lots of different ways to sign in. And My HealtheVet is one, or I can go to the Id.me or the DS logon. But I've been doing the ID.me.**

M: Yeah, so if you do the ID.me, where does that bring you to?

**P5: Okay...[logs in]. ID.me - I press it.** 

M; And I know you were having some sign-in issues, so if you are having issues just let me know. 

**P5: Normally on the phone it's not bad.** 

M: Okay.

**P5: I had to listen until I found the sign-in area. When I found that I put in my email in it and then a third box comes up and asked me for my password....*[trails off / connection is choppy]***

**P5: Then I clicked to go to it. Then it is now currently trying to log me onto the website.** 

M: Okay, let's see if it's able to bring it up. 

**P5: Okay, now it says text me.**

M: Gotcha, you are doing the two-factor authentication.

**P5: Are you there?**

M: Yep, I'm here. 

**P5: When I try to log in and it says to text me, it brought over an app. Then it went away and it logged me back into Zoom.** 

M: Okay, so you're away from the website. I'm sorry that's really frustrating.

**P5: I'm back over at the login page. Let's see....let's see if it will go through this time. Okay, it sent me a code. Hold on, give me one second. 
*[mumbles: close...red button / blue button go. Yes, continue]***

**P5: I can see colors, but I can't see details - that's why I need the talkback. Okay, trying to login to VA.gov. What is this? okay, it says sign-in. Now it says please wait. Oh, it's with the login. Okay, it's....okay, I'm logged into VA.gov now.** 

M: Okay, and if you were trying to look for that information - emergency contact and next of kin - where would you go? 

**P5: uhhh...I'd check the menu first. But it also has my name with a down arrow.** 

M: Okay, so would you go to the menu, or to your name? 

**P5: It has a drop-down menu under my name.**

M: Oh, gotcha. So would you click on that drop-down menu? 

**P5: If I click on that, I'm assuming it's in my profile. My VA, My HealtheVet profile, dependents, letters, sign-out. So I guess I would go to MyVA. And it's going to MyVA now.** 

M: Okay, so you would check under MyVA. Could you tell me a little bit about why you went htere?

**P5: I would assume it has my information. But now it has a blue link that says to go to my profile.** 

M: What would you do there?

**P5: Well, I guess it would be under my profile. So it would tell me what I have as me. And then, so I go to .... *[trails off]*...it's loading.** 

M: Janice, I'm going to stop you there. It's super helpful to know that's where you would look. It's not going to be live on there under your account right now, so you won't be able to find it. I"m just going to ask you a few questions instead. 

**P5: okay.**

M: For medical emergency contact, what kind of information would you want to see listed for that?

**P5: Their name, why they are my emergency contact - like if they are my family member or my friend - like why they know me better than another person. And then their phone number? And what kind of phone it is. Because if it is a mobile phone maybe then they can text instead of calling, because some people don't answer their phone when they are working but they might answer a text.** 

M: How many emergency contacts would you want to have listed? 

**P5: Two**

M; Why is that?

**P5: Because if it really is an emergency and you need to get a hold of them, you need a back-up person. Like with my children, one of them works in refrigeration adn he could be under a big refrigerator equipment and may not be able to answer. But my daughter is in school and might be in a class and has to be silent and have that put away. So she maybe can't answer a call but could probably respond to a text and see the flash light. So contacting them might be difficult. But if I fall and have an emergency, my phone sends an alert to my son and my daughter as a 911 and flashes.** 

M: Wow, thank you for sharing that. That's super helpful. So if this information for a medical EC was displayed on VA.gov, what would you expect to be able to do with the information on that page?

**P5: Update it. And be able to change out who, for instance if my daughter ended up getting a different phone that she prefers - like my son has a work phone and a personal phone - I'd need to be able to put in both his phone numbers so that they could contact both numbers. Because if it's an emergency and someone is hitting both his phones at the same time.** 

M: What about next of kin? What kind of info would you want to see there? 

**P5: Well, their name, their phone number, type of phone so they could be texted or called. Maybe a mailing address.** 

M: Why is that? 

**P5: Umm...so that any phone call could be followed up by - and probably an email address as well - so that if you are really trying to get a hold of them, you could hit all 3 points of contact. And it wouldn't be thought of as spam.** 

M: So it's more likely the person would respond? 

**P5: Yeah, exactly. Like if I get a text and it's something like "this is the government and we are looking for your next of kin" I might think it's spam. But if I get a phone call, a text, an email, and a physical letter - then maybe I know somebody is trying to get a hold of me and I can go back to one of those forms of contact to follow-up on. I get scammed and spammed all the time. I don't know how I get on all these lists. But when you're using 10 technologies to try and get to the internet, like the Talk Back, sometimes they get your information all the time.** 

M: That makes sense, thanks for sharing that. How many next of kin would you expect to have listed? 

**P5: Probably 1 initial contact and a back-up if that person doesn't respond. Because, as I said, they may not respond in a timely manner and if they haven't responded like in 5-10 days, I would probably contact the secondary. So then you have at least 6-8 modes of contact on the information that is provided. 6-8 ways of contacting a next of kin between a primary and a backup.**  

M: What would you want to be able to do with the next of kin information on a website, if anything? 

**P5: Be able to edit it. Like if my daughter marries and changes her name, I may need to be able to change her name on the information. Or if they have a new phone number to be able to update that. Or if they move, change their address, so that their mail can be changed.** 

M: Gotcha. And, do you, for these, umm...both medical emergency contacts and next-of-kin, I know you receive some other benefits through the VA, would you - is this information that we're talking about related to those benefits as well? 

**P5: Yeah, but it's a separate question and a separate line and you have to put the information in again.**

M; Gotcha

**P5: There is - I don't know about next-of-kin, I'm not sure if that one is in there or not. But emergency contact they have asked me about that before. But I do think they have asked me about my receiving of money, who should receive it if they close it out. And that goes to my daughter -but I am thinking that might have been on the social security website, not on the VA.gov website.** 

M: So the hypothetical information that we're exploring here, would be different than for some of those other VA benefits that you receive?

**P5: yeah, because like I have 3 children that live close to me that could probably get to me in an emergency. It may take them an hour or so to get to me. But as far as my - where my benefits may go to - I may use one of my children that lives a distance from me for who might be handling my will and stuff like that when I'm gone. Because that's [a scenario] when the benefits go to one person.** 

M: Janice, those are all the questions I have for you - is there anything else that you would like to share or any other q's for me as we wrap up? 

**P5: Umm...I know getting into and finding things like that is sometimes difficult. The first place i usually look is my profile to see if there is a link over to additional information or a link into forms. Because they always want you to change a form, and then you have to sign the form. And they always send me to a PDF file and I have to bring up a PDF reader, then I have to go to the PDF reader and see if it is one that can be read and signed on electronically. And then they want you to save it, and then come up in a another area of the web to submit it. That is extremely difficult and I finally give up and won't do it online. I end up having to wait until I go to a VA facility. And then I have to remember that I have to do that at the VA facility. If you do it online, it shouldn't have to go to a PDF reader. It should be an electronic form that asks if you want to do this ... instead of sending you somewhere else that makes you go to an old school PDF copy and load it completely separately. Does that make sense?** 

M: That makes sense. So what I hear you saying is that we have to load it in place and maybe allow you to provide an electronic signature.

**P5: Right, within the flow of that particular thing. Stay where I'm at and flow through it there. If I want to update it, I update it and I save my edits and I'm done with it. Or, if they really need an electronic signature, allow for that within the flow. Allow for me to finger sign it or stylus or whatever if I'm on computer or phone. It makes it a whole lot easier for me than trying to go through all these other applications to get back to where I need to be. I get lost in the stream.**

M: Of course, that all makes a lot of sense and appreciate you sharing that with us. 

**P5: I guess that would be the only thing is trying to make it as few steps staying on the same window, because as you can tell, when things try to pop-up over / on top of, it causes issues when you are using a talk-back program. Because it uses a lot of your processing speed on your device. And internet too. Because it has to go the internet to get its source. To talk back. And...so...it uses up more of your resources. And if you're trying to do a pop-up on top of what you'er already using. You saw I got this thing come up about overlaying apps. It won't let me overlay too many apps - only one at a time.** 

M: This was a super valuable session and I really appreciate your time. Hope you have a great rest of your day. 

**P5: thank you, bye.** 
