# Meeting Notes

## 2021-04-30 Follow-up Meeting with Content

### Attendees
- John Hashimoto, PO for Find a VA Form
- Marci McGuire, PM for Find a VA Form
- Beth Potts
- Randi Hecht
- Selina Cooper

### Notes
- John gave an overview of the new request breakdown (3 batches)
- We have now got the info about which SME it might go back to.
- First two are 15-ish. Last one is closer to 30.
- Dates are not hard and fast.  
- Content team has to see what else comes up in the meantime that is an emergency.
- Going forward we'll do detail pages that get searched 200 times a month.  There's not a lot of volume work to be done after this.  
- If they happen to know the best SME for different areas, Beth will let us know.
- Marci will manage getting the copy approved.
- Beth advised we should contact the SME and cc the comms team for awareness.

## 2021-04-16 Follow-up Meeting with Content

### Attendees
- John Hashimoto, PO for Find a VA Form
- Marci McGuire, PM for Find a VA Form
- Beth Potts
- Randi Hecht
- Selina Cooper

### Notes
- Ticket - https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/issues/22726
- John summarized what we did, how we came up with the list, and how he broke down the forms that need "when to use this form". 
- We're going to the top 100 forms.
- 3 batches of 20 forms each; attached to the ticket
- When to use is the critial info that is missing
- Related forms - we leave that to the SMEs.  If they happen to know what the related forms are, we'll let them add that.
- Copy for the forms can sometimes be found on the Federal Register
- Selina put content into Drupal, but someone else came up with the actual copy.
- For helpful links, Jen and Laura wrote those.  We can use those helpful links as canned.
- John and Marci will do the legwork for getting it reviewed by the SMEs.
- John may send the initial one and then I may do the follow-up emails.
- Be prepared for several rounds of back-and-forth.  Some of the SMEs will provide feedback.  Some will edit in a way that makes it no longer plain language so that it needs more Content edits.
- Within VBA, we'd need to group them by Pension, Disability, etc.  Maybe we also organize the docs by the type of doc (pension, disability, housing).
- We will take a crack at it.  Refer to the mega-menu on the left.
- John and Marci can add some of the canned helpful links so the Content team can review

## 2021-04-07 Content Updates Meeting
### Attendees
- John Hashimoto, PO
- Marci McGuire, PM
- Selina Cooper, Content Writer
- Randi Hecht, Senior Writer
- Beth Potts, Sitewide Content Lead

### Notes
- John gave background
- We are not going to add descriptions to all 500
- Initial philosophy was that only the most important Veteran facing forms would have descriptions
- Every form in the database has a PDF
- Anything that gets published form the CMS gets at least a minimal detail page
- Some of them we add additional information (related benefits, related forms, when to use this form)
- John is of the opinion that all the veteran facing forms should have a description of what the form is used for
- Beth - biggest question is how to prioritize the work when she knows that soon-ish that Randi and Selina will be working on other things in the pipeline
- Beth would also like to look at one of the pages and think about the components
- Beth wants to be clear that the work they have slotted for the content team members on this call will ramp up and this will become a lower priority, so she would rather have them focus on what we really want to get done
- It would be good to know which forms are associated with which SMEs and where the drop off is for the forms that are most searched
- At some point there's diminishing returns based on form popularity
- With the SMEs, it's hardly ever getting it back in two weeks.  It could be two weeks, a month, two months.  There will also sometimes need to be a back and forth via email, but it depends on the person.
- The pieces of data can be done piecemeal

### Decisions
- Getting the "When to Use" info is the most important
- Related Forms is an exception, and probably the hardest part to track down
- We draft the detail page, and it needs to get in front of a SME
- John and I will provide mroe specifics about which forms and which content is most important for them to focus on first
- John and I will tee up all the communication to the SMEs
- We will make sure there is clarity around the Helpful Links (default setting, how/where that gets changed, where the info is derived)
- We could put some draft stuff in a document and have a SME review before we put into the CMS. Selina thinks it was done in Word copydeck first and then it was done in Drupal
- John and I will also be responsible for the Online Tool component

### Action Items
- Update the content request with more details on areas of focus
- Create a copydeck for the SMEs that, for each form, includes the following fields:
     - Form name
     - Draft description
     - SME
     - Space for SMEs to add related forms (if applicable).
- Reconvene with Content team to review updated request.
