products/health-care/appointments/README.md, before:

# Appointments hub
Starting point for appointments-related projects on VA.gov.

## Journey maps

[**VA patient experience journey**](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/blob/master/platform/design/va-product-journey-maps/Patient%20Experience%20Journey%20Map.pdf)

<details>
<summary>Other helpful journeys</summary>

* [VA Inpatient and Discharge](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/blob/master/platform/design/va-product-journey-maps/Inpatient%20Journey%20Maps%20with%20Photos%20and%20Moments%20that%20Matter.pdf)
* [VA Inpatient Discharge](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/blob/master/platform/design/va-product-journey-maps/Inpatient_Discharge_Journey_101018_V7.5.pdf)
* [VA Inpatient Hospitalization](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/blob/master/platform/design/va-product-journey-maps/Inpatient_Hospitalization_Journey_112818_V7.5.pdf)
* [VA Employee-Patient Journey](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/blob/master/platform/design/va-product-journey-maps/Veterans%20Outpatient%20Journey%20Map.pdf)
</details>

## Service maps

[DRAFT - appointments service map](https://app.mural.co/t/adhoccorporateworkspace2583/m/adhoccorporateworkspace2583/1646415445176/4452f42daeedeff133c89080638c6035395d9a80?sender=ub08ff1d80ee7bd38d6c02354)
Still a WIP but, but this map covers the end-to-end appointment experience.

[Notifications service map](https://app.mural.co/t/adhoccorporateworkspace2583/m/adhoccorporateworkspace2583/1649696758581/a12e35b635ef11d25ff389fe6651b1e63026b68c?sender=ub08ff1d80ee7bd38d6c02354)
Map of the appointment notifications space from [this service map study](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team-sensitive/blob/master/products/health-care/appointments/research/2021-10-appointment-notifications-service-map/research-findings.md).

## Research
See the appointments on VA.gov [**research hub**](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/blob/master/products/health-care/appointments/appointments-research.md).

## Content

[**Appointments content brief**](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/blob/master/products/content/content-briefs/appointments-content-brief.md)

The [Sitewide Content Team](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/tree/master/products/content) aligns appointments language across touchpoints. 

## Touchpoints

Tools Veterans and facilities can use to manage, track, and schedule appointments.

### Veteran touchpoints

| Touchpoint           | Channel/Touchpoint  |
|----------------------|----------|
| My HealtheVet National Portal      | Web app  |
| [MHV Appointments on VA.gov](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/blob/master/products/health-care/appointments/va-online-scheduling/README.md) | Web app  |
| VEText               | Text/SMS |
| Check-in Experience  | Web app  |
| Flagship Mobile App  | Mobile app |
| VA Notify            | Email      | 
| After Visit Summary  | ?        |

Commit message:

Update README.md (#79317)
Added check in experience documentation

products/health-care/appointments/README.md, after:

# Appointments hub
Starting point for appointments-related projects on VA.gov.

## Journey maps

[**VA patient experience journey**](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/blob/master/platform/design/va-product-journey-maps/Patient%20Experience%20Journey%20Map.pdf)

<details>
<summary>Other helpful journeys</summary>

* [VA Inpatient and Discharge](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/blob/master/platform/design/va-product-journey-maps/Inpatient%20Journey%20Maps%20with%20Photos%20and%20Moments%20that%20Matter.pdf)
* [VA Inpatient Discharge](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/blob/master/platform/design/va-product-journey-maps/Inpatient_Discharge_Journey_101018_V7.5.pdf)
* [VA Inpatient Hospitalization](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/blob/master/platform/design/va-product-journey-maps/Inpatient_Hospitalization_Journey_112818_V7.5.pdf)
* [VA Employee-Patient Journey](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/blob/master/platform/design/va-product-journey-maps/Veterans%20Outpatient%20Journey%20Map.pdf)
</details>

## Service maps

[DRAFT - appointments service map](https://app.mural.co/t/adhoccorporateworkspace2583/m/adhoccorporateworkspace2583/1646415445176/4452f42daeedeff133c89080638c6035395d9a80?sender=ub08ff1d80ee7bd38d6c02354)
Still a WIP but, but this map covers the end-to-end appointment experience.

[Notifications service map](https://app.mural.co/t/adhoccorporateworkspace2583/m/adhoccorporateworkspace2583/1649696758581/a12e35b635ef11d25ff389fe6651b1e63026b68c?sender=ub08ff1d80ee7bd38d6c02354)
Map of the appointment notifications space from [this service map study](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team-sensitive/blob/master/products/health-care/appointments/research/2021-10-appointment-notifications-service-map/research-findings.md).

[Pre-check-in, check in and text "travel" service maps](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/tree/master/products/health-care/checkin#product-documentation).

## Research
See the appointments on VA.gov [**research hub**](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/blob/master/products/health-care/appointments/appointments-research.md).

See the pre-check-in, check in and text "travel" [**research hub**](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/tree/master/products/health-care/checkin/research). 

## Design

See the pre-check-in, check in and text "travel" [**design files**](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/tree/master/products/health-care/checkin#production-designs). 

## Content

[**Appointments content brief**](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/blob/master/products/content/content-briefs/appointments-content-brief.md)

The [Sitewide Content Team](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/tree/master/products/content) aligns appointments language across touchpoints. 

## Metrics

See the pre-check-in, check in and text "travel" [**metrics dashboards**](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/tree/master/products/health-care/checkin#metrics).

## Touchpoints

Tools Veterans and facilities can use to manage, track, and schedule appointments.

### Veteran touchpoints

| Touchpoint           | Channel/Touchpoint  |
|----------------------|----------|
| My HealtheVet National Portal      | Web app  |
| [MHV Appointments on VA.gov](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/blob/master/products/health-care/appointments/va-online-scheduling/README.md) | Web app  |
| VEText               | Text/SMS |
| Check-in Experience  | Web app  |
| Flagship Mobile App  | Mobile app |
| VA Notify            | Text/SMS/Email      | 
| After Visit Summary  | ?        |
