# Conversation Guide: Veterans' Experiences at VA Benefit Offices

## Moderator logistics

### 2-3 days before the session

* Review VA Platform's [Research Checklist](https://depo-platform-documentation.scrollhelp.site/research-design/Research-Checklist.1958773011.html#ResearchChecklist-5.Conductsessions)
* Make copy of this guide and update with Participant # and info from screener questions  

### Day of the session

**10-15 min before session:**

* Post p# and [observer instructions](https://depo-platform-documentation.scrollhelp.site/research-design/Observer-guidelines.1622311177.html) in [#feedback-backchannel](https://dsva.slack.com/messages/C40B45NJK/details/)
  * @mention team members
  * Share brief summary of participant demographic info
 
**5-10 min before session:**

* Sign onto Zoom website via Google as Perigean w/credentials provided and start Zoom meeting
* Check Settings > Meeting > In Meeting (Basic) > Sound notification when someone joins or leaves OFF
* Check Settings > Meeting > In Meeting (Basic) > Screen sharing > Who can share > All Participants
* Check Settings > Meeting > In Meeting (Basic) > Hide participant profile pictures in a meeting ON
* Open a Word Doc with the List of Benefit Office Types
* Do Not Disturb ON so no notifications
* Make sure everyone is muted except me and the participant
* SLACK WINDOW for real-time feedback and questions from observers

When the participant is ready, turn on your camera and begin session with the intro

## Intro - 5 minutes

Thanks for joining us today. My name is Dave, I am a web designer for the VA. How are you doing today?

I have a colleague with us in this session who will be taking notes.

There are a few of my teammates who would like to watch this session. **Would it be OK with you if I invited them to join us?**

* *(If yes, let them in. If no, post to #feedback-backchannel "Sorry, the participant doesn't want any observers in this session.")*
* "These are my colleagues Adam, Brenda, and Chris. I'm going to ask them to wave hello and then they will turn off their cameras to limit distractions while we talk."

Today we're going to talk about VA Benefit Offices, these include Regional Offices, Veteran Readiness and Employment Offices, Pre-Discharge Sites and a couple other types. We're trying to learn about Veterans', service member's, and caregivers' experiences with visiting these locations.

Before we start, a few things I want to mention:

*   **This entire session should take about 45 minutes.**
*   **This session is going to resemble an interview where I will ask you many questions about your experience with VA Benefit Offices.** There are no right or wrong answers, this is purely to understand your actual experiences. If at any time you don't feel comfortable answering a question, we can move on to the next question.
*   **In this session, we want to hear your honest opinions.** We are not testing your ability. We just want to improve these tools to better meet Veteran's needs. I will not be offended by any opinions you express, and I welcome your feedback.
*   **If for any reason and at any time you want to stop the session, please let me know.**
*   This session will be recorded to ensure that I capture your opinions accurately. The recordings are destroyed after the call is analyzed, and none of your comments will be attributed to you directly. Are you comfortable if I record my screen and audio as we talk today?
    * If yes: Once I start recording, I will ask again to confirm that you're ok with me recording this session so that it's captured in the recording.

*Start recording.*

* **I have started recording.** I'd like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record my screen and audio as we talk today?"

## Warm-up Questions - 2 min

*  Can you tell me a little about yourself and your relationship to the VA?

## Baseline Questions - 3 min

* In the pre-interview survey, you indicated that you had visited a VA Benefits Office in the last 6 months. Specifically, you visited a **Satellite Benefit Office**, is that correct?
* In your own words, could you briefly describe the reason for your visit to that office?
* [*Confirm benefit-related service(s)*] Okay, so just to confirm, it sounds like this visit was related to [benefit type], correct? 
   *  *This should line up with answer to screener question #2. If not, ask follow up.*
   *  On the survey, you also listed **Home Loans**, could you tell me about that?
*  Before visiting the office, did you try to complete this task via another method (phone, online, etc.)?
   * *Follow up to understand how they came to decide that visiting the office was the best way to complete the task* 

## Preparing for the Visit Questions - 8 min

My first set of questions is about the steps you took to prepare yourself for visiting the office.

* How did you first learn about this office?
  * *Skip or rephrase based on answers baseline questions* 
* When you were preparing, did you research any other benefit office locations?
  * If so, what factors led you to pick one over another?
* What sources did you consult to get ready for your visit?
  * Did you talk to any VA employees?
    * Did you speak to anyone who works at this location? 
  * Did you talk to other Veterans/beneficiaries?
  * Did you call a phone number?
  * Did you look at the website?
* What information did you gather from these sources?
  * Directions? Hours?
  * Details about benefit services/tasks?
* What tasks did you complete before your appointment? 
  * Making an appointment?
  * Any paperwork forms?
* Did you feel prepared for your visit?
  * Were you actually prepared, or was there a surprise when you got to the office?
* Is there anything else you wish you had known before your visit?

## Visiting Questions - 8 min

Okay, now we're going to talk specifically about the day you visited the benefit office. 
* Where is this office located?
  * How far away is that from where you live?
* How did you travel to the office? 
  * Method of transportation (car/bus, etc)?
  * Wayfinding/directions (landmarks, GPS, printed)?
* Did anyone accompany you on the visit?
* Did you have any issues getting to the building (directions, parking, etc)?
  * Was the address and hours accurately represented?
* Once you were inside the building, how did you find your way to the floor/room you needed?
  * Was there any signage that guided you?
  * Did you speak with any employees? (e.g. receptionist)
  * Was there a waiting area of any kind?
  * How did you know when you were at the right place?
* Did you have a pre-scheduled appointment, or did you just walk-in?
* Was there anything you wish you had on that day that would have made your visit easier?

## Benefit Task Questions - 8 min

For this next part, we're going to talk about the **[benefit-related task]** you wanted to complete at the office.
* Were you able to complete the task during the visit?
  * Did you visit multiple offices?
  * Did you have to visit the same office multiple times?
* Was there another way you could have completed the task?
* If you had the option of completing this task online / by phone / or in-person, what would your preferences be?
  * Rank 1st, 2nd, 3rd  
* Is there any information specific to this task/benefit that you wish you had before your visit?
* [Repeat questions if there are multiple tasks or benefits] 

## General Benefit Office Questions - 5 min

For this last section, I'm going to ask you some general questions about VA benefit offices. There are no right or wrong answers, I'm just interested in your perspective.

* In addition to the [benefit task] that brought you to this office, can you think of other reasons you or another Veteran might visit this location in the future? 
  *  What other tasks might be completed here?
* I'm going to share my screen and show you a list of benefit offices. [_Share screen_] **Can you see my screen?**
* As we go through this list, for each office type I'd like you to tell me if you've heard of it before.
  1. Regional Benefit Office
  2. Satellite Benefit Office
  3. Integrated Disability Evaluation System Site      
  4. Pre-Discharge Site
  5. Veteran Readiness and Employment Office
  6. VetSuccess On Campus
* *Follow up for each office type they know* In your words, what can Veterans do at this type of office?
* If they indicate having heard of at least two types:
  * Based on your understanding of these different offices types, are there any important connections between them?
    * For example, have you ever been reffered from one office to another?
* Are you involved in any Veteran Service Organizations (VSOs)?
  * If you wanted to learn more about VSOs in your area, where would you look?

## Thank-You and Closing - 3 min

* *Ask any additional follow up questions from #feedback-backchannel*
* That's the end of my list of questions. Is there anything we talked about today that you have additional thoughts you want to share?

We really appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us today. Your feedback is so helpful to us as we continue to work on the site and make sure it really works for Veterans.

Thank you again, and I hope you enjoy the rest of your day.

## Emergency Exit

* Veteran is currently having issues with a RO or benefits issue
  * You can call the VA customer service hotline for Benefits at 1-800-827-1000. 
  * If you have already tried that you can also consider using the White House VA hotline. Calls to that line are answered by a live agent 24 hours a day, seven days a week, 365 days a year. The hotline is staffed by more than 60 agents who have had extensive training on VA programs and services. These agents help us to rapidly respond to systemic inefficiencies and empower VA employees to resolve Veteran concerns quickly. You can reach the White House VA hotline at 1-855-948-2311.
* Need to cut session short for unexpected reason
  * We have covered all the questions I have for you today. Thank you so much for your time and feedback.

## After Session
* Click "End" on zoom 
* Download recordings
* Download notes
* Capture any notes or thoughts 
