[Session 6 of Staff Facing, First Individual Session]

# 1:1 Interview Guide for Staff-Facing Discovery
## Moderator logistics
- Use #feedback-backchannel in Slack for real-time feedback from observers.
- Mute your Slack notifications
- Before the session, send out the observer instructions to your observers (Slackbot will do this for you if you type "observer instructions" into #feedback-backchannel).
- In the Attendees section, make sure everyone except the participant is on mute.
- In the Audio section, click the drop-down arrow and make sure "Play Entry/Exit Chimes" is unchecked
- Check your [screensharing setup] and share permissions for participants.
- When the participant is ready, begin the session with the following intro

## Intro - 5 minutes
Thanks for joining us today! My name is [NAME] and I also have some colleagues on the line observing and taking notes. Today we're going to talk about your experience with checking Veterans in and tracking Veterans through their appointment or services at VA.

I’ll give a bit of background on why we want to talk to you and then tell you a bit about what this hour is going to look like. The team I'm working with is looking at how VA medical centers and CBOCs currently handle checking Veterans in and tracking Veteran through their appointment or services. As you know, the kiosk tool and VetLink software that many sites use are being deprecated in the next year, and we are talking to staff, as well as Veterans, to make sure that what is built in its place meets the needs of everyone involved. 

Before we start, a few things I want to mention:
-	This entire session should take about 60 min. I want to be sure not to keep you much longer, so I may occasionally prompt you with the next question or topic.
-	In this session, we want to hear your honest opinions. There are no right or wrong answers. We just want to improve these tools to better meet Veteran's needs. I will not be offended by any opinions you express, and I welcome your feedback.
-	If we’re talking about a particular software tool you use, I may ask you to share your screen so you can show me how you use it. Is that something you’re comfortable with? It’s helpful to us to see your desktop set up. We are not testing your ability.
-	If for any reason and at any time you want to stop the session, please let me know.
-	Are you comfortable if I record my screen and audio as we talk today? We use the recordings to confirm that we have captured your opinions accurately. The recordings are destroyed after we complete analysis, and none of your comments will be attributed to you directly.
  -	If yes: Once I start recording, I am going to confirm that you are ok with me recording this session once more.
__Start recording.__
-	I have started recording. I'd like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record my screen and the audio as we talk today?
## Warm-up Questions - 5 minutes
-	First off, can you tell me a bit about how your current role connects to Veteran check-in? And what about patient-tracking?
> **P11**: New to this area and this position. Supervisory MSA in Amarillo and CBOC Lovick. Use kiosk and VETlink to monitor.
> New to this role, been at Amarillo for 3 years, in this position for 5 months. Also a Veteran who uses this facility.

-	How long have you been in this role? _Also listen for whether they've been in a similar role elsewhere - either different site or outside of the VA network)_
-	In one word, how would you describe:
  -	**The process of checking in Veterans to your facility**
> **P11**: "Confusing." When they're checking in, it's "I didn't know which item to push, wasn't sure what Iitem to take, don't know what to expect." They walk up to the box and sometimes the options don't match what they need to be seen for.
>  They don't know all that encompasses what is on the kiosk. 1 or 2 phrases/words may mean things they aren't sure about.
> The options are too minimal from what the eligibility office does. The veteran doesn't know all the items that might fall under 1 or 2 phrases on the kiosk.

- **Where, physically?**
> **P11**: Kiosk is in front of business. We share our area with travel and medical. They're not used to technology. We still get a lot that walk up to volunteers and ask how do I do check in
> They still prefer face to face. Go up to info desk or volunteer.

  - The process of queuing and tracking patients through their appointments and services at your facility

_For these tasks: stick to questions that are relevant to the participant’s role, ie for Admins, skip to Task 3, for on-the-ground staff, focus on Tasks 1 & 2._

## 1a) Check-In - 20 minutes
We will focus on check-in to start:
- How do Veterans check in at your clinic / site / department?
    - Can you walk me through how each of these options works?
   
    - **Does your site see both Vets by appointment and walk-in?**
    > **P11**: We do walk ins. We don't have a large amount of people who are in the waiting area. They can walk in and be seen quickly.

    - **Do they need to select need and that determines?**
    > **P11**: Means/ID - that goes to eligibility. Anything else they get confused what opiton they fall under.
    > We can see for the entire area. Veterans will check in under the wrong number, so we never leave anyone in the lobby waiting, we'll go out and ask the number in case they have been tracked under the wrong one.
    > Then we'll just have them come back and be seen.

    - **Numbers?**
    > **P11**: It's the queue number for the kiosk. And we'll know to get them. Sometimes they'll get a number and are checked in the wrong one [Certain queue numbers for certain areas. P11's area is 100s, 500s are for another area]

    - **How are they aware of when they can be seen?**
    > **P11**: Screen out front that lists veteran out and then we'll come out to call them as well.
    > Happens daily

    - **What would be better?**
    > **P11**: If there was a monitor that says you've been checked in for check in status, have a time frame for when they might be seen (which may be difficult if staff low for day)
    > A screen should somehow let them know where they're at. Right now screen doesn't show anything until we call them.
    > At least if it says there are 3 people ahead of me, they can kind of have an idea without be stuck to a specific numbers [10 min], which may be hard.

    - **Is there a way to call the Veteran?**
    > **P11**: If it's not an ID check in, we can't see their information on Vetlink, so we can't particularly help by calling on the phone.
    > It would be one more means of reaching veteran if they had to leave.

    - **Are there times when Veterans do an incomplete checkin but think they have checked in?**
    > **P11**: Yes, we've had that. Either partial or not at all. When we look at the waiting room, we go out and see who is out there and ask who they're waiting for so they're not sitting for long periods of time.

    - **Is there a way partial check in is displayed in Vetlink?**
    > **P11**: No not useful, it only shows if they're completely checked in

    - **Are there any ways staff can tell issues with check in?**
    > **P11**: Only if we see them waiting? If they do have issues, they have volunteers next to us, so they will ask someone. That's the only way we find out

    - **Any ccommodations for special requirements (blind, low hearing)?**
    > **P11**: We just assist them

    - **What tools do staff have open?**
    > **P11**: No other tools to know they have checked in. But there are others in addition. 2 screens and a laptop, with something on each screen.
    > Communication - Outlook checked in, we have internal staff sending eligibility stuff, Teams for internal staff. Then there are 4 diff programs to verify Veteran information (DV214, when they served, etc) so we look in different sysetems - Duprees (sp?), VBMS, Viz (sp?, and Share. ES (sp?), VistA, CPRS. Then there's Forms and Publications to verify eligibility for veteran.
    > Constant moving around on the screen depending on whats going on.
    > Usually Vetlink is large on the screen, but no notifications pop up on the side. We already have teams and outlook sending notifications, so I don't think it would be more helpful to me.

    - **Is there any input collected at the desk?**
    > **P11**: Nothing collected at the desk. We used to have a desk bu it ended up being a go-to for everything instead of just eligibility. So it's no longer open. They're now directed to information counter.
    > There is so much confusion about area, so theres a sign that says we all work together.

    - **Any part of check in experience that causes trouble for veterans?**
    > **P11**: It's pretty user friendly, your ticket sticks out. They just don't know where they need to go. Something voice activated [would be nice], like we have in our homes, they could simply say what they need to be seen for, then it instandlty spits out "go to medical records, travel, eligibility..."

    - **Are the staff monitoring Vetlink same as the ones having full interaction?**
    > **P11**: Yes, and at a supervisory level as well. We're a little more of oversight at the supervisor level, we do the monitoring side of that, but we jump in where needed.

    - **Do people specialize within department?**
    > **P11**: We're generalists here, we're too small of a department to specialize.

## Post-Task Interview - 5 minutes
- **What would you change?**
> **P11**: I think it's ok with having a person. I think its important veteran does have a person. The whole VA is going more computerized and our older pop do not like it.
> They'll either have to adapt but they'll be frustrated.
> Will need to be a program that makes it easier to check in. That makes it easier for us too to make sure they understand and don't get confused.

- **Is there anything that you want to make sure we know regarding check-in?**
> **P11**: Sometimes disconnect between check in process and having to check in the counter. We don't have that issue here at eligibility.
> The kiosk is thorough to verify and update information, making sure you are who you say you are.

## Thank-You and Closing - 2 minutes
We really appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us today. Your feedback is so helpful to us as we continue to work on this experience for both staff and Veterans.

- **Any questions for me?**
> **P11**: What are you guys working on?
[Moderator: How folks use to make sure what gets built works for the people who use it]
> **P11**: That's really important. Often, we have to use systems that we can tell that they clearly didn't talk to the people who actually use them.
