# 1:1 Interview Guide for Staff-Facing Discovery
## Moderator logistics
- Use #feedback-backchannel in Slack for real-time feedback from observers.
- Mute your Slack notifications
- Before the session, send out the observer instructions to your observers (Slackbot will do this for you if you type "observer instructions" into #feedback-backchannel).
- In the Attendees section, make sure everyone except the participant is on mute.
- In the Audio section, click the drop-down arrow and make sure "Play Entry/Exit Chimes" is unchecked
- Check your [screensharing setup] and share permissions for participants.
- When the participant is ready, begin the session with the following intro

## Intro - 5 minutes
Thanks for joining us today! My name is [NAME] and I also have some colleagues on the line observing and taking notes. Today we're going to talk about your experience with checking Veterans in and tracking Veterans through their appointment or services at VA.

I’ll give a bit of background on why we want to talk to you and then tell you a bit about what this hour is going to look like. The team I'm working with is looking at how VA medical centers and CBOCs currently handle checking Veterans in and tracking Veteran through their appointment or services. As you know, the kiosk tool and VetLink software that many sites use are being deprecated in the next year, and we are talking to staff, as well as Veterans, to make sure that what is built in its place meets the needs of everyone involved. 

Before we start, a few things I want to mention:
-	This entire session should take about 60 min. I want to be sure not to keep you much longer, so I may occasionally prompt you with the next question or topic.
-	In this session, we want to hear your honest opinions. There are no right or wrong answers. We just want to improve these tools to better meet Veteran's needs. I will not be offended by any opinions you express, and I welcome your feedback.
-	If we’re talking about a particular software tool you use, I may ask you to share your screen so you can show me how you use it. Is that something you’re comfortable with? It’s helpful to us to see your desktop set up. We are not testing your ability.
-	If for any reason and at any time you want to stop the session, please let me know.
-	Are you comfortable if I record my screen and audio as we talk today? We use the recordings to confirm that we have captured your opinions accurately. The recordings are destroyed after we complete analysis, and none of your comments will be attributed to you directly.
  -	If yes: Once I start recording, I am going to confirm that you are ok with me recording this session once more.
__Start recording.__
-	I have started recording. I'd like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record my screen and the audio as we talk today?
## Warm-up Questions - 5 minutes
-	**First off, can you tell me a bit about how your current role connects to Veteran check-in? And what about patient-tracking?**
> **P12**: Backup for the vetlink and kiosk systems. Program Application Specialist at Seattle, Health Administrative Services dept. Local person who grants access, troubleshoot if theyre having trouble with kiosk, vetlink. CBOC clinic manager.

-	**How long have you been in this role? _Also listen for whether they've been in a similar role elsewhere - either different site or outside of the VA network)_**
> **P12**: 6 months. At Mount vernon, manager for 1.5 years. MSA for long time. At the VA for 24 years.

-	In one word, how would you describe:

  -	**The process of checking in Veterans to your facility**
> **P12**: Clunky and Bulky. Seattle- confusing. Mount Vernon, American Lake.
> There are multiple steps you have to take until you get fully trained on it. Can't guess your way through the program as veteran or staff.
> With Veterans they get flustered because there are so many questions. As frontline staff, we would have to ask anyway. Especially older population get confused.
> Checking them in, remembering where the search category to search for patients. There's just a little box. Unless you know how to search for it, it can be intimidating.
> On the queue side, it was very busy. So much on there, it was overwhelming. Until you get used to what you're looking at.
> Once I got used to it in Vetlink, I preferred changing vets demographics in there, it was easier than the other systems.
> Surgical services. When you're checking in 100-200 people in a clinic and you're trying to find one person in the sea of pages, it was daunting until you learn tricks.
> Learn through trial and error or through other MSAs.

  - The process of queuing and tracking patients through their appointments and services at your facility


_For these tasks: stick to questions that are relevant to the participant’s role, ie for Admins, skip to Task 3, for on-the-ground staff, focus on Tasks 1 & 2._

## 1a) Check-In - 20 minutes
We will focus on check-in to start:
- **In current role, do you field staff questions?**
> **P12**: Yes, and I'm also the backup trainer so I get all kinds of questions. 

- **Example of questions?**
> **P12**: The big ones - encounters not printing in right location. Forget to change user template when they sign in. You have to go to a different screen.
> My encounters are printing in one clinic and i'm in a different clinic. They rotate clinics. They can't remember password for VVistA or it expires
> Vetlink doesn't accept PIV card. Others have PIV card. 

- **Does encounter form = routing slip?**
> **P12**: I would think of mail or memo for routing slip. Encounter form is for our providers, while patient is in room, they check off diagnoses. Like a check sheet as to what the visit entailed.
> When you have a very busy clinic, you try to document when patient is there. But sometimes you don't have time. So they'll write notes like vital signs on encounter form and then enter it later.
> Printed directly from Vetlink. Encounter forms cue the LPN back people as to who checks in. So if the encounter form prints in the wrong area, they're call out for patients that are not there.

- **Any other challenges with Vetlink tool or kisok?**
> **P12**: Kiosks go down or a portion of it goes down. It takes a while to get booted back up. Can't power off, have to unplug them. 
> Lab at Mt Vernon - kiosk was constantly going down. One of the daily chores they did.

- **Do labs and pharmacy use encounter forms?**
> **P12**: No, they use a ticket. Like going to DMV. Patients use kiosk then when theyre number comes up, they go to window they're directed to

- **Do you view report or share reports?**
> **P12**: I view, I just look at them. I don't process them or anything. I typically look at usage. Are the kiosks being utilized in that location.
> If they have been online or offline for a certain amount of time.

- **What action do you take?**
> **P12**: I look at them. Steve presents to chief or AO. If underutilized, then they get moved to another location.

- **Does incomplete check in happen a lot?**
> **P12**: Yes

- **How do staff become aware?**
> **P12**: Depending on clinic, staff could be diligent in the waiting areas. If they see patient waiting there for a long period of time, they would ask if they'd checked in.
> Also would take a look at Vetlink queue and keep watching as folks kept checking in. If the system doesn't say check in complete, they would call for that person.
> A lot of times they were there. Then I would complete check in at the front. You have to be on top of that as an MSA.
> Sometimes when you're in a busy area, you gotta rely on the patient to come up and they get angry. Then you have to apologize and do recovery.
> From their perspective, they checked in.

- **Errors in VSSC? Do you have to manage that?**
> **P12**: I haven't had to deal with that. I have heard that though.

- **Any changes to make to the approach to check in when Veteran is deaf, blind, hard of hearing?**
> **P12**: I don't think there are any other options off the bat. I am still perplexed as how it works for the visual, I know we have headphone jacks, but I can't attest to that.

````
## Things to watch/listen for:
-	What is system driven/automatic? What requires manual intervention from staff?
- How do they determine whether Veterans need to bring insurance?
- How do they determine whether to review next of kin or contact information?
- How do they intervene when Veterans encounter issues checking in?
- How does the check in process differ for Non-Veterans (family members, others), if relevant at all?
- How do medical and clinic sheets factor into the check in process?
- How do they handle check-ins for urgent requests?
- When they need help with a check in tool, what do they do?
````

## 2a) Patient Tracking - 20 minutes
- **Do you have insight into how may providers and clinical staff use Vetlink to track Veteran through services?**
> **P12**: At CBOC not so much. Here at Seattle and American Lake, medical provider staff do rely on Vetlink. That's how they knew to flow clinic properly.

- **Any challenges to patient tracking?**
> **P12**: Memo and Column. Patient would check in then wander off and use the restroom. Then we use that feature and it would alert staff in back so they werent trying to call them.
> It helped a lot pre-covid, patient families would wonder where they were. We would give them the ID number and we can tell them they're in recovery now, etc. 
> We could tell where they were using activity buttons and note field.

- **Staff would mark it every time a transition happens? Any barriers to doing that in surgery context?**
> **P12**: Just learning it. It was met with resistance. Once you accept and work with it, you find good and bad. Mainly good for patient tracking.

- **Did staff find the communication useful internally?**
> **P12**: In surgical side, yes. They knew exactly where patients were. Even good for the clinical side. If they were running slow for patients with multiple appointments, they can pull it up in Vetlink. They tell the MSA on the other line to say when clinic was running behind.
> It better facilitated patients next appointment.

- **How is Vetlink used for handoff?**
> **P12**: What you can do with that is if they're at the lab and I'm the provider, wondering where they are, I can look up where they are. Even see if they're getting the blood drawn.
> As long as they're using the buttons, I'll know where they were before me. I can look cross department. And use my best judgment, they're located across campus, it'll take 20 min.
> Figure out from point a to point b. Utilize time much more effectively.

- **What types of things would stop staff from using activity buttons?**
> **P12**: Knowing how and training. And resistance to opening up another program on top of the other 4 we need up during patient care. CPRS, VSE, Vetlink, IBC. Everything could be wrapped into one nice bow with one tab.
> With Cerner, it will knock out some tof these programs.

- **Any other changes to improve for staff?**
> **P12**: Make filters and stuff easier to find. Until you know where to find, there's a lot of steps we have to know. Needs to be streamlined.
> Making it so that we could look at everybody - all clinics. Right now you have to have the template to look at it.
> And if I'm a float [MSA] and I don't have that template, then I can't do my job effectively. Have to contact someone on site to get approval. Then if they're busy, you are waiting for them.

````
## Things to watch/listen for:
- Tools for cross-team communication
- Collaboration between facilities
- What is system driven/automatic? What requires manual intervention from staff?
- How may shift changes impact patient tracking?
````

## Post-Task Interview - 5 minutes
-	What capabilities of the kiosk and VetLink software (or current check-in system) would you say MUST be included within the new system (the items that can’t be removed)?
-	What worries do you have about the Kiosk & VetLink software going away and a new check-in process/system being available in its place?
-	If you could design check-in anyway that you wanted, what would that check-in process look like?
## Thank-You and Closing - 2 minutes
We really appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us today. Your feedback is so helpful to us as we continue to work on this experience for both staff and Veterans.
-	Would your site be open to a site visit, where a researcher from our team observes check-in in person?
-	Any questions for me?
Great, well thank you so much again, and enjoy the rest of your day!
