# 1:1 Interview Guide for Staff-Facing Discovery
## Moderator logistics
- Use #feedback-backchannel in Slack for real-time feedback from observers.
- Mute your Slack notifications
- Before the session, send out the observer instructions to your observers (Slackbot will do this for you if you type "observer instructions" into #feedback-backchannel).
- In the Attendees section, make sure everyone except the participant is on mute.
- In the Audio section, click the drop-down arrow and make sure "Play Entry/Exit Chimes" is unchecked
- Check your [screensharing setup] and share permissions for participants.
- When the participant is ready, begin the session with the following intro

## Intro - 5 minutes
Thanks for joining us today! My name is [NAME] and I also have some colleagues on the line observing and taking notes. Today we're going to talk about your experience with checking Veterans in and tracking Veterans through their appointment or services at VA.

I’ll give a bit of background on why we want to talk to you and then tell you a bit about what this hour is going to look like. The team I'm working with is looking at how VA medical centers and CBOCs currently handle checking Veterans in and tracking Veteran through their appointment or services. As you know, the kiosk tool and VetLink software that many sites use are being deprecated in the next year, and we are talking to staff, as well as Veterans, to make sure that what is built in its place meets the needs of everyone involved. 

Before we start, a few things I want to mention:
-	This entire session should take about 60 min. I want to be sure not to keep you much longer, so I may occasionally prompt you with the next question or topic.
-	In this session, we want to hear your honest opinions. There are no right or wrong answers. We just want to improve these tools to better meet Veteran's needs. I will not be offended by any opinions you express, and I welcome your feedback.
-	If we’re talking about a particular software tool you use, I may ask you to share your screen so you can show me how you use it. Is that something you’re comfortable with? It’s helpful to us to see your desktop set up. We are not testing your ability.
-	If for any reason and at any time you want to stop the session, please let me know.
-	Are you comfortable if I record my screen and audio as we talk today? We use the recordings to confirm that we have captured your opinions accurately. The recordings are destroyed after we complete analysis, and none of your comments will be attributed to you directly.
  -	If yes: Once I start recording, I am going to confirm that you are ok with me recording this session once more.
__Start recording.__
-	I have started recording. I'd like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record my screen and the audio as we talk today?
## Warm-up Questions - 5 minutes
-	**First off, can you tell me a bit about how your current role connects to Veteran check-in? And what about patient-tracking?**
> **P13**: The site Point of Contact for Portland VA for Vetlink. The one who manages the program and sets up everything, works with all groups for special functions and settings, queueing, workflows.

-	**How long have you been in this role? _Also listen for whether they've been in a similar role elsewhere - either different site or outside of the VA network)_**
> **P13**: 2 years in this role. I worked in operative care before this role, on the clinical side.

-	In one word, how would you describe:

  -	**The process of checking in Veterans to your facility**
> **P13**: "Challenging" for both staff and veterans.
> We're a very large facility for a VA, fairly spread out, multiple areas and floors where people check in. That is where the challenge lies, getting people to the right areas. They have to be in correct area to check in.
> We use a lot of signage, directional kiosks, and information desks in front of hospital. That's challenging too, it depends on Veterans to know where to go to get directions.
> There are Vetlink kiosks dedicated to looking up directions and print out step by step directions.
> They check in once they get to their correct site.

  - **The process of queuing and tracking patients through their appointments and services at your facility**
> **P13**: "Smooth" once they get to where they need to be (mostly for Veterans, somewhat for staff)

_For these tasks: stick to questions that are relevant to the participant’s role, ie for Admins, skip to Task 3, for on-the-ground staff, focus on Tasks 1 & 2._

## 1a) Check-In - 20 minutes
We will focus on check-in to start:
- **Of those wayfinding options, do they have preference or utilize more than other?**
> **P13**: Most like being able to just talk to someone. Using directional kiosks, they still have to sign in via PIV or Date of Birth, look up appt, then later on they'll have to sign again into the kiosk when they get to the actual area.

- **Can they check in at info desk?**
> **P13**: No, just directions.

- **What is the fallout from the navigational challenges? How does that impact the facility?**
> **P13**: There are waiting areas in each check in area. We have 8 floors so if someone were to check in another area and they're using the queueing to see when checked in, they'll see that they're check in but do not actually see them in the waiting area. Then, they'll have to page them overhead. Or look up the phone number to call them. They're coming from the back and expecting them to be in the waiting room.

- **Can you see where the patient checked in?**
> **P13**: Nope. Its a time consuming problem solving to find where they are.

- **Partial check in**
> **P13**: It typically will tell them to see front desk staff. You are only allowed to check in where your appt is.
> If they try to check into a wrong area, it tells them and then tells them to go to staff to get information.

- **Partial check in in the right area?**
> **P13**: Sometimes, but I wouldn't say a lot. Occasionally.

- **What do typical quetsions look like?**
> **P13**: Typically, some issues are new clinics not being in Vetlink automatically. Once in Vista, have to be manually loaded in Vetlink. They're not notified that it needs to be uploaded into Vetlink.
> Patient not able to check in if the clinic is not in there. Then staff is not able to see they were checked in, especially through another means (VSE, VistA).

- **Each has a set of directions?**
> **P13**: Yes. Typically driven by certain area, from the kiosk group.

- **How did covid impact check in?**
> **P13**: We were screening, so we added screening questions. But then it became sanitization issue so turned them off.
> Check in is in person exclusively.

- **Do they use Vetext I am here?**
> **P13**: I wasn't involved in that, but they did.
> I didn't hear much about it, but I can find that out for you guys.

- **Do you see possibility in having check in on Veterans personal devices?**
> **P13**: I know that's the direction things are going. Great opportunity, I worry that it doesn't solve the problem for the large facilities where people need to get to the right area for their appointment.
> There needs to be some type of directions given to them, they need to be somewhere by certain time for their appointment.

- **Are there pieces of check in process that can happen before being on site?**
> **P13**: I don't know, I think that confirming they'll be there for appt should be that you are there and ready to be taken back.
> I definitely think that that address, phone number, pre-screening upfront, next of kin, medicine reconciliation of that could be done [beforehand]. May be privacy issue.
> The only concern is someone [else] looking at their phone, some other family member or someone seeing what medicine they're taking when they don't want them to know.

- **Reporting**
> **P13**: I don't do a lot of it, but I would help if needed.
> Vetlink looks at cycle times, so there are activity buttons where the front desk click where they are. They can use those to determine how long appointments are taking and how long they're with each staff. They can see bottlenecks in clinics and what time of day, do they have more hiring needs, etc.
> At the management level, they can also see how long they're in the waiting room. But it's all depending on staff, not automatic.

- **What obstacles to it being dependent on staff?**
> **P13**: It's user error and getting them to buy in. It falls on the management to make sure they're insuring buy in. 

````
## Things to watch/listen for:
-	What is system driven/automatic? What requires manual intervention from staff?
- How do they determine whether Veterans need to bring insurance?
- How do they determine whether to review next of kin or contact information?
- How do they intervene when Veterans encounter issues checking in?
- How does the check in process differ for Non-Veterans (family members, others), if relevant at all?
- How do medical and clinic sheets factor into the check in process?
- How do they handle check-ins for urgent requests?
- When they need help with a check in tool, what do they do?
````

## 2a) Patient Tracking - 20 minutes

````
## Things to watch/listen for:
- Tools for cross-team communication
- Collaboration between facilities
- What is system driven/automatic? What requires manual intervention from staff?
- How may shift changes impact patient tracking?
````

## Post-Task Interview - 5 minutes
-	**What capabilities of the kiosk and VetLink software (or current check-in system) would you say MUST be included within the new system (the items that can’t be removed)?**
> **P13**: We are (prior to covid) one of the biggest users of Vetlink and we have specialized things:
> - Surgey floor: Displays where the patient is in their surgery (pre-op, surgery, holding area, etc) that faces the waiting room that family members can see. They use location function in Vetlink
> - Walk in queueing: whether its labs, x ray, or enrollment, there are kiosk questions with identifiers of what they're there for
> - Optical Shop: Glasses adjustment questionnaires
> - Directions
> - Form printing: To nurses area or where they checked in, MSAs gathered those forms. Complete more of it or give to nursing staff or provider
> - Vocational rehab: Walk in job counseling, computer use to apply for jobs, specialized questionnaires and alert staff in that area

- **Do you have to make tweaks for a wide variety of contexts?**
> **P13**: Yes, especially for non-appointment stuff. A lot of walk in scenarios that we've built for that purpose

-	**What worries do you have about the Kiosk & VetLink software going away and a new check-in process/system being available in its place?**
> **P13**: We've built a lot of workflows around vetlink. If it was only built on check in, we would miss out on all of these things

-	If you could design check-in anyway that you wanted, what would that check-in process look like?
## Thank-You and Closing - 2 minutes
We really appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us today. Your feedback is so helpful to us as we continue to work on this experience for both staff and Veterans.
-	Would your site be open to a site visit, where a researcher from our team observes check-in in person?
-	**Any questions for me?**
> **P13**: How is this going to work in the Cerner world? We are the first VISN who will get that.

Great, well thank you so much again, and enjoy the rest of your day!
