Warm-up Questions - 5 minutes
Can you tell me a little about yourself? (if needed, ask about service history)
In Tampa, Florida. Served 25 years in the Army.
What device are you joining us on?
On mobile phone. Has an iPhone 12 Pro.
Do you currently, or have you ever, received any benefits from the VA?
If yes: What benefits?
Yes – 100% service-disabled Veteran. Receives health care & compensation. 
Do you currently, or have you ever, filed a claim or appeal with the VA?
Filed a claim and an appeal with the VA.
(if yes) How do you check for any updates or changes to your benefits?
Would check status on E-benefits. Didn’t tell him much – just told him it was processed. States his number in line for his appeals.
Have you ever used the My VA page on VA.gov? What do you use it for?
Yes – downloads letters and checks status of appeals. Also uses VA.gov to go to MyHealtheVet.
How do you manage your benefits?
(if needed: do you ever go online?) Where do you go?
Checks benefits to make sure there aren’t any changes. Especially with his child’s college education benefits.
Do you ever manage your benefits on VA.gov? Tell me about that.
(if they haven't mentioned it: Are you familiar with My VA? Tell me about your experience with it)

Background and questions - 7 minutes
Just a little bit of background before we start - we are working on building a central place for you to receive any action items, updates or reminders on VA.gov. These could be anything related to health care, benefits or just general announcements.
Have you ever seen a place on any websites that you user currently that has this kind of information all in one place?
Yes. 
What would you expect that type of information to be called?
Knowledge base
What kind of information would you expect to be on a page like this?
A one-stop shop. Would want personalized to him. Would want to see his disabilities, benefits, educational benefits, etc. Then another section for what he might be interested in.
What are some scenarios in your life where you would want a page like this?
Imagine that you do have new [USE THEIR WORD], how would you know?
Where would you expect the VA to tell you about that?
A newsletter that the updated their website. Or an email or text message.

First task - Scenario - 5 minutes
Participant should be on first page of the prototype.
Now that you’re looking at this prototype, where would you go to find some of the updates we just discussed, starting from here?

I noticed you clicked on [section].
Why would you expect it to be in this section?
Would go to Disability to check claim status.
What are you looking for here?
Second task - Alerts indicator - 3 minutes
Go ahead and scroll to the top, and take a look at the 'Alerts' with the little bell and the red dot.
What does that mean to you?
Something that he needs to look at. 
What do you expect to happen if you click on the bell?
Would expect to take him to Alerts. Might be an alert that they processed his appeal or something that needs his attention. Might need to submit a form for a claim or info about his hearing aid. Noticed alert when he first looked at the page. 
What is confusing about this?
Not confusing – looks like VA.gov now.
Okay, great! That's it for the prototype, so we'll go ahead an move on to the next activity.
Third task - My VA - 7 minutes
Let's go ahead and click on 'My VA'. I have another scenario for you. Imagine you recently went to a VA doctor and she said she would send you a message about your results. Can you walk me through how you would see that?
If they said that, ask
Why would you expect it to be in this section?
Let's take a look at the Alerts section on My VA.
What are your thoughts on this section?
“This is what I need.” *Usually clicks on My VA page*
What would you do next with this info?
Tell other Veterans about it.
What information about your alerts would you want to see on your personal dashboard?
*Would want all alerts on My VA. Would want same information in both places for alerts. Likes going to My VA first to see all his stuff in one place*
What do you think works about this section?
What do you find confusing here?
What would you change about this section?
*Not much he would change*
If you were to click on 'View all alerts', what would you expect to happen?
*To show him more alerts. Would rather be able to search alerts based on date*
Go ahead and click on 'View all alerts.
Fourth task - Alerts - 10 minutes
Go ahead and scroll through this page and walk me through what you're seeing here.
What are your overall thoughts about this page?
*Receives these text alerts already. Likes it on the website but isn’t always on so text works best for him. Having in both places would be useful*
Why do you think you are seeing these specific alerts?
What information is useful here?
Important to see appeal reminder. If he doesn’t see alert, his appeal could be denied. Let’s him know prescription is on the way.
What would make one notification more important than another one?
Appeal reminder.
What would you do next with this info?
Scroll through alerts. Wouldn’t like if alerts stayed past their time. Would like a drop-down option to see recent alerts or past alerts – not both in one screen.
What does it mean to take action on an alert?
To click on an alert. “View messages” – once he views, would assume alert would go away.
How far back are you expecting to see your alerts?
What do you think works about this page?
Communication – would like to see same alerts in text and email. 
What do you find confusing here?
What assumptions are you making about this page?
Assumes if he clicks “continue to application” it’ll take him to his application. Assumes all links would work correctly.
What would you change about this page?
Would like to see more alerts in one page. Likes that it is simple. 
What is missing on this page?
Okay, great - any questions or thoughts before we move on?
If users initially clicked on alerts, loop back to the third task
CLOSING QUESTIONS - TIME PERMITTING - 2 minutes
How did these pages meet your expectations?
Likes that it is a one-stop shop. He can see everything on one page.
How did these pages not meet your expectations?
Would like to see what education and training he is entitled to.
