Warm-up Questions - 5 minutes
Can you tell me a little about yourself? (if needed, ask about service history)
I am a disabled veteran. I have had some problems getting things done with the VA, but I have always been a person who tries to fight for his rights – what is right is right and what’s wrong is wrong. Never compromise with your morals and avoid what is wrong. 
What device are you joining us on?
Android - Galaxy S10
Do you currently, or have you ever, received any benefits from the VA?
If yes: What benefits?
Yes, I get full VA compensation. I get the dental, vision, and everything else. 100%
Do you currently, or have you ever, filed a claim or appeal with the VA?
Yes. Numerous times. I just won an appeal. I have an active appeal now for a higher-level review. 
(if yes) How do you check for any updates or changes to your benefits?
I go online. You can’t really see much except that you have it open. I do that through VA.gov and My HealthyVet. 
Have you ever used the My VA page on VA.gov? What do you use it for?
I use it to get to my profile and to check messages. Results for things such as blood tests are on there and you can message your doctor. 
How do you manage your benefits?
(if needed: do you ever go online?) Where do you go?
Do you ever manage your benefits on VA.gov? Tell me about that.
(if they haven't mentioned it: Are you familiar with My VA? Tell me about your experience with it)

Background and questions - 7 minutes
Just a little bit of background before we start - we are working on building a central place for you to receive any action items, updates or reminders on VA.gov. These could be anything related to health care, benefits or just general announcements.
Have you ever seen a place on any websites that you user currently that has this kind of information all in one place?
What would you expect that type of information to be called?
It could be called, “status of your health care” as part of healthcare benefits.
What kind of information would you expect to be on a page like this?
I would expect to be able to manage all things related to my benefits on the My VA page. It should all be on one central site, instead of going to others (MHV). 
What are some scenarios in your life where you would want a page like this?
Imagine that you do have new [USE THEIR WORD], how would you know?
Where would you expect the VA to tell you about that?
Through the newsletters that get sent out. 
First task - Scenario - 5 minutes
Participant should be on first page of the prototype.
Now that you’re looking at this prototype, where would you go to find some of the updates we just discussed, starting from here?
I would think you’d go to the menu or alerts dropdown. That would bring up your profile and then if you have a message you could click the alert. The red dot shows that you have an alert, like a message, that you need to check out. 
You could also use the links below in the 4 boxes. 
I noticed you clicked on [section].
Why would you expect it to be in this section?
What are you looking for here?
Second task - Alerts indicator - 3 minutes
Go ahead and scroll to the top, and take a look at the 'Alerts' with the little bell and the red dot.
What does that mean to you?
That would bring up your profile and then if you have a message you could click the alert. The red dot shows that you have an alert, like a message, that you need to check out.
What do you expect to happen if you click on the bell?
I would expect to see what it is that they want/need from me. *clicked “alerts”* It tells you about your appeals and appointments – it is basically a screen that breaks out what you need. It gives you a good sense of what’s going on, even with prescriptions. 
There should be a status option here for you to get the information you need for your claim instead of having to call and ask (particularly, telling you what you need to do).
I like that is tells you if you have a hearing coming up and that it tells you what you need to know about your prescription. Anything that is related to your immediate health is most important and should be at the top of this list (appointments, prescriptions, etc.). It would help to have a notation on it, maybe red text, that lets you know it is urgent. 
What is confusing about this?
It would be good to have an explanation about what the form is that I need to complete if I need to do so. There could also be more details about upcoming appointments – more context. 
Okay, great! That's it for the prototype, so we'll go ahead an move on to the next activity.
Third task - My VA - 7 minutes
Let's go ahead and click on 'My VA'. I have another scenario for you. Imagine you recently went to a VA doctor and she said she would send you a message about your results. Can you walk me through how you would see that?
I would click on the alert, go to the results section, and that would bring all of your test results up. It would be nice if there were an option to go straight to the results from here rather than through multiple steps.
If they said that, ask
Why would you expect it to be in this section?
Let's take a look at the Alerts section on My VA.
What are your thoughts on this section?
It’s pretty decent. I like what it has on the page. I have seen this page before by going to my profile. 
What would you do next with this info?
The next thing I would do is click the, “schedule and view your appointments” to find out more about my appointment. Being able to know the details of an appointment online rather than calling is important. For example: it could let you know what an appointment is about. 
It’d be good to be able to know what follow up action you may need/want to take based on the alerts. 
What information about your alerts would you want to see on your personal dashboard?
It would be good to also include notices about anything that will be changing on the site. That could be listed at the top of page to let Vets know and it could also be listed in the newsletters. 
What do you think works about this section?
This is pretty decent, it tells you what is going on, what you need to do, and where you’ll need to go. 
What do you find confusing here?
What would you change about this section?
I would want to add some more details to each notice.
If you were to click on 'View all alerts', what would you expect to happen?

This page is basically the same as the last one.
Go ahead and click on 'View all alerts.
Fourth task - Alerts - 10 minutes
Go ahead and scroll through this page and walk me through what you're seeing here.
What are your overall thoughts about this page?
It is showing you all current alerts first and then it goes in chronological order to the older alerts.
Why do you think you are seeing these specific alerts?
What information is useful here?
What would make one notification more important than another one?
What would you do next with this info?
What does it mean to take action on an alert?
How far back are you expecting to see your alerts?
It should go back a couple years, but you should be able to archive them – if you do, you should still be able to access them when you need them. 
What do you think works about this page?
It tells you what you have to do, who you are doing it with – this way you know what is going on. 
What do you find confusing here?
Not really, they give you the basic information you’d need.
What assumptions are you making about this page?
It is improved from the way it used to be. Now you know what is going on and they can’t say that they didn’t receive something that you sent in and you know you haven’t been forgotten. 
What would you change about this page?
What is missing on this page?
If a new alert or update was posted to this page then I would want to receive a text or email to notify me. 
Okay, great - any questions or thoughts before we move on?
If users initially clicked on alerts, loop back to the third task
CLOSING QUESTIONS - TIME PERMITTING - 2 minutes
How did these pages meet your expectations?
I think they were pretty decent, just need a little more detail and consideration of those who have mental conditions – more broad ranging in who it appeals to / works for. 
How did these pages not meet your expectations?
Nothing beyond the additional detail and mental condition consideration. 
Do you think you would or would not use these pages when you log in to VA.gov? Why?
if no: What would make this page more useful to you?
I will definitely be using it. Before the VA had these pages it was a nightmare, this will help a lot.

It would be good to include a timeline for claims and appeals so that you are aware of when the deadlines are.
