Warm-up Questions - 5 minutes
Can you tell me a little about yourself? (if needed, ask about service history)
I was enlisted in the Navy between Dec of 2006 and Dec 2011. *Detailed their role in the Navy*
What device are you joining us on?
Android mobile phone - Samsung S20
Do you currently, or have you ever, received any benefits from the VA?
If yes: What benefits?
I am currently receiving benefits from the VA – I have a disability percentage.
Do you currently, or have you ever, filed a claim or appeal with the VA?
I have filed a claim in the past, but I do not currently have an active claim.
(if yes) How do you check for any updates or changes to your benefits?
I check through the VA.gov website or I log in through MHV and then I can navigate from there. I have also used ID.me – whichever one pops up first. There isn’t a rhyme or reason for which I choose.
Once I log in there is a navigate page that I go to and then there is a, “check claim status” option. It lists your claims (if you have more than one, which I have had in the past). 
Have you ever used the My VA page on VA.gov? What do you use it for?
It sounds familiar, I probably have. I’m not sure what I would’ve used it for.
How do you manage your benefits?
(if needed: do you ever go online?) Where do you go?
As far as I know, there is no management needed. I think I had to change my routing number when I changed banks but that was the only change I’ve had to make.
Do you ever manage your benefits on VA.gov? Tell me about that.
(if they haven't mentioned it: Are you familiar with My VA? Tell me about your experience with it)

Background and questions - 7 minutes
Just a little bit of background before we start - we are working on building a central place for you to receive any action items, updates or reminders on VA.gov. These could be anything related to health care, benefits or just general announcements.
Have you ever seen a place on any websites that you user currently that has this kind of information all in one place?
What would you expect that type of information to be called?
Action items is industry standard. It is the most descriptive term to use. I am a project manager for a software company and that term is something that we use and I am familiar with. 
What kind of information would you expect to be on a page like this?
Under action items, I would expect to see if there is a form that I need to fill out or if there are qualifying questions that I need to answer. I would also expect to see if there are things I need to sign. 
I would not expect to see much related to my health care because MHV is a pretty broad resource so all medical-related things would be there (because of HIPPA) rather than in the action items. 
What are some scenarios in your life where you would want a page like this?
Imagine that you do have new [USE THEIR WORD], how would you know?
Where would you expect the VA to tell you about that?
An email notification would be best.
An option that says “action items” with a red dot if I have new alerts would be how I expect it to be listed on the website.
First task - Scenario - 5 minutes
Participant should be on first page of the prototype.
Now that you’re looking at this prototype, where would you go to find some of the updates we just discussed, starting from here?
Everything is separated into sections well and it is easy to look through. I can tell that “check you claim or appeal status” has already been clicked, but I would still go there to get more information about those.
The “alerts” at the top is helpful. The red dot automatically draws my attention to it. It tells me that there is something in there that I need to click on and look at. Alerts works well instead of action items. 
Personally, I refill and track prescriptions extensively, it is my primary reason for using MHV. I would use that option. (I have to call to make appointments because I can’t do it via messaging). Prescription refills may potentially be under alerts – if the VA did automatic alerts for refills of prescriptions that would be helpful.
I noticed you clicked on [section].
Why would you expect it to be in this section?
What are you looking for here?
Second task - Alerts indicator - 3 minutes
Go ahead and scroll to the top, and take a look at the 'Alerts' with the little bell and the red dot.
What does that mean to you?
What do you expect to happen if you click on the bell?
I would expect it to take me exactly where it did. I like that it has the appointments listed and notifies you for other things you need to do. I like that it notifies you that you have a new message is pretty nice. I would hope that I only see alerts that haven’t been deleted – I don’t know that historical alerts would be helpful, and depending on age it may be confusing. There should only be active alerts – but an appointment can stay listed here until the appointment has been completed (once the appointment date has passed). If I were to click the link to submit form X and then submitted it, I would hope that the alert disappears. 
What is confusing about this?
Okay, great! That's it for the prototype, so we'll go ahead an move on to the next activity.
Third task - My VA - 7 minutes
Let's go ahead and click on 'My VA'. I have another scenario for you. Imagine you recently went to a VA doctor, and she said she would send you a message about your results. Can you walk me through how you would see that?
I would click the message from Dr. Thompson. I am trying to click the link that says, “view all messages.” I don’t necessarily want to see all of my messages; I just want the link to take me directly to this message to reduce the number of clicks to get there. 
I would expect the link to take me to whatever messaging page is set up, I assume it is MHV since it is health related. 
If they said that, ask
Why would you expect it to be in this section?
Let's take a look at the Alerts section on My VA.
What are your thoughts on this section?
What would you do next with this info?
What information about your alerts would you want to see on your personal dashboard?
There are some things that are redundant because they are already listed in the alerts page. 
What do you think works about this section?
The alerts are helpful and being able to get my medical records from here would also be helpful – as well as being able to apply for benefits. There is a lot of really good information here. I would expect some of this to be here and there is some that I would not, but it is good to have it here.
What do you find confusing here?
What would you change about this section?
I would like the location of my primary care physician to be added – jus the name of them and it would be beneficial to include a link to their page. Directions may also be helpful. I have had my primary doctor changed 5 or 6 times without being notified until I got to the appointment – it would be very helpful to be notified if that happens and it’d be nice to have it updated on this page as well. 
If some of these things are already listed in alerts then it isn’t helpful to have to scroll through them here as well. It would be good to have the “view all alerts” link at the top with a red dot if I have new alerts. The same could be done for messages.
If I was a student veteran and I was receiving education benefits, then that would be something I’d want at the top rather than health care and even potentially claims/appeals. I was a student vet years ago and it was always a lot of clicks to navigate to the pages I needed to be on – especially when certifying my classes or payout with the GI Bill. Especially since that is only something you do once or maybe twice a semester. It would be nice to get alerts when payments are pending and for when I need to fill out an additional form.
If you were to click on 'View all alerts', what would you expect to happen?
I would expect it to take me to the alerts page – which is exactly what happened.
This page shows you the same thing as the last page.
Go ahead and click on 'View all alerts.
Fourth task - Alerts - 10 minutes
Go ahead and scroll through this page and walk me through what you're seeing here.
What are your overall thoughts about this page?
Why do you think you are seeing these specific alerts?
What information is useful here?
What would make one notification more important than another one?
What would you do next with this info?
What does it mean to take action on an alert?
How far back are you expecting to see your alerts?
I would not want to see alerts that I have already completed or alerts that have expired – it may be a little confusing. 
What do you think works about this page?
I like the bold font; it draws your attention to what the alert is about. The date is helpful, I would want to see recent alerts first and then by importance. 
I like that it has my name, service branch, and disability rating at the top. It gives the page more of personal feeling. 
What do you find confusing here?
Nothing
What assumptions are you making about this page?
My assumptions would be that I have action items that I need to complete or that I am being reminded of an appointment. 
What would you change about this page?
Some of these are more of notifications and reminders. Action items should be separate and called out as specifically action items. Alerts is a good broad term, but action items should be in a separate sub-task of alerts. Maybe another red dot will let me know that I have something to do. 
What is missing on this page?
It would be nice to know what the form is for, just a sentence or two or even a bullet point about why I am filling it out and what the purpose is – that’s important.
I think you’ve covered the rest of the bases. It is informative but also basic enough that I think I could navigate pretty well.

It would be good to get an email notification when something has been added to this list. I don’t come here often so I may not see it. A push notification on my phone would also suffice if this is a mobile app.
Okay, great - any questions or thoughts before we move on?
If users initially clicked on alerts, loop back to the third task
CLOSING QUESTIONS - TIME PERMITTING - 2 minutes
How did these pages meet your expectations?
The MyVA page was pretty helpful and was set up well. 
How did these pages not meet your expectations?
I would like to see the action items separated from other items. Items tells me that I have to sign a form or review a non-disclosure. 
Do you think you would or would not use these pages when you log in to VA.gov? Why?
if no: What would make this page more useful to you?
If I was on my phone, I would absolutely use these – particularly if there were an app to download where I could choose between email or push notifications. 
On a regular computer or laptop, it is still useful – but there is the opportunity to include much more information on larger screens. The left third of a computer screen could have the navigation, the middle could have the MyVA section, and then the right side could have the alerts. That would minimize the number of clicks that I have to make while also giving me all of the information I’d need.

I think this looks pretty good overall. 
