Warm-up Questions - 5 minutes
Can you tell me a little about yourself? (if needed, ask about service history)
12 years, 3 months, and 23 days in the Army. I was in during Desert Storm / Desert Shield. I was  German linguist for counterintelligence interrogation. 
What device are you joining us on?
Android – Samsung
Do you currently, or have you ever, received any benefits from the VA?
If yes: What benefits?
Yes, I am 100%. I get compensation and health care. 
Do you currently, or have you ever, filed a claim or appeal with the VA?
No current claims. 
(if yes) How do you check for any updates or changes to your benefits?
They notify you and I can always go and look. Usually I receive something in the mail, but there’s no guarantee that you’ll actually receive it. 
Have you ever used the My VA page on VA.gov? What do you use it for?
I have used MHV – is that the same thing? *Can’t tell if they have only used MHV or if they’ve used My VA* It is better than it used to be, but there are still issues. The things that people get on there to use most often should be prioritized. 
How do you manage your benefits?
(if needed: do you ever go online?) Where do you go?
Do you ever manage your benefits on VA.gov? Tell me about that.
(if they haven't mentioned it: Are you familiar with My VA? Tell me about your experience with it)
Background and questions - 7 minutes
Just a little bit of background before we start - we are working on building a central place for you to receive any action items, updates or reminders on VA.gov. These could be anything related to health care, benefits or just general announcements.
Have you ever seen a place on any websites that you user currently that has this kind of information all in one place?
What would you expect that type of information to be called?
Most common links for the things that are usually needed – the things that I need to do could be called common tasks. They could make some of these notifications pop-up in a way that forces you to look at it and close it before proceeding. If I am going in there for a prescription refill then I will probably not be looking at my messages. 
What kind of information would you expect to be on a page like this?
What are some scenarios in your life where you would want a page like this?
Imagine that you do have new [USE THEIR WORD], how would you know?
Where would you expect the VA to tell you about that?
First task - Scenario - 5 minutes
Participant should be on first page of the prototype.
Now that you’re looking at this prototype, where would you go to find some of the updates we just discussed, starting from here?
I would like to see it show up as a dropdown next to the “search” and “contact us” dropdowns. *Began to scroll through the page* I like this, it is clean, makes sense, and it straightforward.
It seems like this page is broken down by types of things to do, I don’t see a centralized spot with everything. It would be great if there were a mailbox you could click on to see those notifications. I assume these notifications would be coming from the VA as broad/generic notifications for all Vets, or is it personalized for me. 
Would the alerts section always have the red dot or is that to let you know you have an alert? There isn’t a number to tell you how many you have. Green could mean that there are no alerts – that would work just as well because you either have alerts or you don’t. 
I’d expect that clicking alerts would take me to all alerts whether they are generic or specific to me. I like this way better because I may not have time to check my email but if I am refilling prescriptions then I would notice that I have something to do.
I noticed you clicked on [section].
Why would you expect it to be in this section?
What are you looking for here?
Second task - Alerts indicator - 3 minutes
Go ahead and scroll to the top, and take a look at the 'Alerts' with the little bell and the red dot.
What does that mean to you?
What do you expect to happen if you click on the bell?
What is confusing about this?
Okay, great! That's it for the prototype, so we'll go ahead an move on to the next activity.
Third task - My VA - 7 minutes
Let's go ahead and click on 'My VA'. I have another scenario for you. Imagine you recently went to a VA doctor and she said she would send you a message about your results. Can you walk me through how you would see that?
I would click the notification about the message from Dr. Thompson. 
If they said that, ask
Why would you expect it to be in this section?
Let's take a look at the Alerts section on My VA.
What are your thoughts on this section?
I like that it has information about other things that are going on, such as for your claim. I also like that it tells you if you have unread messages. These other things are what I use the most – even something like accessing VA records is nice, even though I don’t use it much, it is still nice to have it be easy to get to.
I like the “how to” sections and education/training. You used to have to figure it out on your own but now this is doing a better job about telling people how to do things. Some programs have ended because they didn’t have much participation, but not many people knew about it because it wasn’t broadcasted in a way that everyone will see – you shouldn’t have to go hunting for that kind of information. It would also be nice if it broke down your disability package.
What would you do next with this info?
What information about your alerts would you want to see on your personal dashboard?
The most important things that you need to acknowledge – that is better for the VA and for the Vet.
What do you think works about this section?
What do you find confusing here?
What would you change about this section?
The section to apply for health care is a moot point because I believe you have to do that before you’d be able to sign in to get to this point. 
If you were to click on 'View all alerts', what would you expect to happen?
I would expect to see al of the alerts I’ve ever had in chronological order (unless I deleted some). I’d like the alerts heading to be more distinct so that you know they are personalized for you. All alerts should be grouped by type.
Go ahead and click on 'View all alerts.
Fourth task - Alerts - 10 minutes
Go ahead and scroll through this page and walk me through what you're seeing here.
What are your overall thoughts about this page?
I like it. If I make an appointment then I would get other reminders and I would write it down myself. It would be cool to have a banner that comes across the screen when I log in to let me know it was for an appointment. I would be upset if I went in here to check my alerts just to find out that is an appointment reminder – that is a soft notice rather than an alert. It would be better if this section were called notifications rather than alerts. 
I like that it has your personal info at the top for a personalized touch. I don’t know if the disability rating is hyperlinked, but it looks like it is. If I clicked on it I would like to have the option to print my service connection letter – you used to have to call to get that.
Why do you think you are seeing these specific alerts?
It was done to draw my attention to them. This could be shown at the main page where you have to review and acknowledge it before continuing. 
What information is useful here?
What would make one notification more important than another one?
When COVID began, notices relating to that were important alerts. The notice about a hearing coming up is important. A new message from a doctor / nurse is less important. Being notified that your prescriptions were shipped is also less important. I don’t have time to waste just checking things that I already knew about. If say there was a problem with the medication and it would be late, then I would want to know that. I also get an email when my prescription ships.
What would you do next with this info?
I wouldn’t really want to click the links for these because I wouldn’t want to have to go to a different page every time. I’d like to swipe to the left to get ride of some of these.
What does it mean to take action on an alert?
Depending on what it is I would either acknowledge that I received it or, for the form, I would complete it. 
I would acknowledge them by clicking on it and then choosing save, delete, or even just acknowledge – all of which would acknowledge it. Some of these don’t even need to be acknowledged, like the prescription being shipped, that isn’t important unless there is a problem that I need to know about.
How far back are you expecting to see your alerts?
If it is an important alert, I would expect that they’d stay on there, even if they have expired. Veterans have a lot of appointments and a lot of medications so this could become very cluttered with those alerts. It would be nice if the important ones went straight to the top. 
What do you think works about this page?
What do you find confusing here?
What assumptions are you making about this page?
What would you change about this page?
It would be nice if you could just print out a calendar view of your appointments for the next month.
It would be nice to have headers at the top that group the different notifications. Once you are in that section, everything you need is there rather than having to go from page to page.
What is missing on this page?
Okay, great - any questions or thoughts before we move on?
If users initially clicked on alerts, loop back to the third task
CLOSING QUESTIONS - TIME PERMITTING - 2 minutes
How did these pages meet your expectations?
How did these pages not meet your expectations?
The page did not separate alerts from notifications. It gets diluted and you become desensitized to the alert.
Do you think you would or would not use these pages when you log in to VA.gov? Why?
if no: What would make this page more useful to you?

