## Warm-up Questions - 5 minutes
Can you tell me a little about yourself? (if needed, ask about service history)
I’m 50 years old. I served for 7 years as a photographer for the military intelligence department.
What device are you joining us on?
Android – Samsung Galaxy
Do you currently, or have you ever, received any benefits from the VA?
If yes: What benefits?
I receive health care from the VA. I also receive the pension every month – not benefits yet. 
Do you currently, or have you ever, filed a claim or appeal with the VA?
Yes, I have filed an appeal.
(if yes) How do you check for any updates or changes to your benefits?
I do it online at VA.gov and I use MHV. I check twice a week to see if they have reached a decision. 
Have you ever used the My VA page on VA.gov? What do you use it for?
I’m not sure, I’d have to see it to know. 
How do you manage your benefits?
(if needed: do you ever go online?) Where do you go?
 
Do you ever manage your benefits on VA.gov? Tell me about that.
(if they haven't mentioned it: Are you familiar with My VA? Tell me about your experience with it)
 
## Background and questions - 7 minutes
Just a little bit of background before we start - we are working on building a central place for you to receive any action items, updates or reminders on VA.gov. These could be anything related to health care, benefits or just general announcements.
Have you ever seen a place on any websites that you user currently that has this kind of information all in one place?
I would expect it to be on the main page.
What would you expect that type of information to be called?
VA news or VA alerts
What kind of information would you expect to be on a page like this?
All of the updates for your case (claim/appeal). 
What are some scenarios in your life where you would want a page like this?
Imagine that you do have new [USE THEIR WORD], how would you know?
Where would you expect the VA to tell you about that?
Hopefully through a message box. I have signed up for the VA newsletters.
I use ID.me

## First task - Scenario - 5 minutes
Participant should be on first page of the prototype.
Now that you’re looking at this prototype, where would you go to find some of the updates we just discussed, starting from here?
I like where it is, I see alerts right at the top. That red dot grabs my attention and lets me know it is important. If there were not a red dot then I would assume there are no alerts.
I noticed you clicked on [section].
Why would you expect it to be in this section?
What are you looking for here?

## Second task - Alerts indicator - 3 minute

Go ahead and scroll to the top, and take a look at the 'Alerts' with the little bell and the red dot.
What does that mean to you?
It means that there is an important message. They may need more information or there may be a message that lets me know if my claim has been approved. 
What do you expect to happen if you click on the bell?
I expect it would show my name and last 4 and then would show me the message and give me options to go from there. 
What is confusing about this?
Nothing. *Has had issues logging into eBenefits – likes VA.gov better* 
Okay, great! That's it for the prototype, so we'll go ahead an move on to the next activity.

## Third task - My VA - 7 minutes
Let's go ahead and click on 'My VA'. I have another scenario for you. Imagine you recently went to a VA doctor and she said she would send you a message about your results. Can you walk me through how you would see that?
If they said that, ask
Why would you expect it to be in this section?
Let's take a look at the Alerts section on My VA.
What are your thoughts on this section?
This looks pretty easy – pretty good. Everything is in the right order.
I would expect that you would need to click through each of the alerts to get ride of them red dot, or maybe it would turn green.
What would you do next with this info?
If I click on the appointment alert then I would expect it to give me the location and room/pod number for where I am supposed to be. 
What information about your alerts would you want to see on your personal dashboard?
My claims and appeal, and my spot in line for those. My appointments. Things that are about to expire. Messages from my doctor. Everything I’d want is on here. 
I don’t see a section where you can download your DD-214. That would normally be somewhere at the bottom of the page. 
What do you think works about this section?
What do you find confusing here?
What would you change about this section?
If you were to click on 'View all alerts', what would you expect to happen?
 
Go ahead and click on 'View all alerts.

## Fourth task - Alerts - 10 minutes
Go ahead and scroll through this page and walk me through what you're seeing here.
What are your overall thoughts about this page?
I like it. It tells you which medication was shipped so that I know when what is coming. 
Why do you think you are seeing these specific alerts?
They are important things for me know. 
What information is useful here?
*Okay with getting multiple reminders*
What would make one notification more important than another one?
A message from you doctor would be more important than others because I receive several calls from my doctors, so they message me through MHV – so I think it is important to see those. Appointments reminders are also important. 
The form should be first if it is about to expire. You will likely already know about your appointment, so maybe that shouldn’t be second. The hearing should be up at the top because it is important. (it should be #2, under the form. The next one should be the prescription, then the message from the doctor, then the appointment).
What would you do next with this info?
What does it mean to take action on an alert?
To do exactly what it says, especially with the one that has an expiration date. I see that there is button to continue. Once I’ve completed it, the alert should move down to the bottom. Once I’ve clicked on the alert, it should change colors or indicate that it has been clicked.
How far back are you expecting to see your alerts?
At least 90 days.
What do you think works about this page?
I like it. I like that it has the service rating at the top. It is easy to read, and it seems very functional. 
What do you find confusing here?
	10.What assumptions are you making about this page?
	11.What would you change about this page?
No, I think it looks pretty good. I like the alerts being its own section. 
I wish my phone would give me an alert when something is added here *push notification for VA alerts*
	12.What is missing on this page?
Nothing
Okay, great - any questions or thoughts before we move on?
If users initially clicked on alerts, loop back to the third task

## CLOSING QUESTIONS - TIME PERMITTING - 2 minutes
How did these pages meet your expectations?
I like them both. I have to use MHV and VA.gov separately because I am not able to connect from MHV to VA.gov.
How did these pages not meet your expectations?
Do you think you would or would not use these pages when you log in to VA.gov? Why?
if no: What would make this page more useful to you?
