# Conversation Guide: Address validation: Participant 4

### [Prototype](https://vsateams.invisionapp.com/share/34UP5BMUAJF#/391945409_1-_Intro_Screen)

## Warm-up Questions (5 minutes)

1. **Before we start, can you tell me a little bit about yourself? (If stuck, prompt to ask about service experience, where they live, their work).**

- I’m an 8 year Army veteran, currently a graduate student at [REDACTED] studying international security. 

*Share screen and start recording.*

**OK, now I am going to turn on the recording.**

2. **Do you receive benefits from the VA? May I ask which benefits?**

- Yes I do. Currently Gi Bill. 

3. **Since receiving benefits from the VA, have you ever had to update your mailing address with the VA? (If yes) Can you tell me about this experience?**

- I have done that recently. 
- What happened was I moved from [REDACTED] to [REDACTED] and wanted to ensure I was receiving the information and the contact from the [REDACTED] office so I didn’t do it online because I wasn’t sure how to do it. I went into the [REDACTED] VA to do it.
- (*Did you know you could online?*) I tried to do it online but wasn’t able to.
- (*On which website did you update your address?*) I forget what it was but I believe it is the VA website that contained my medical history. I think it was ebenfits. 

4. **Since receiving benefits from the VA, was there ever a time when you were not receiving mail you expected to receive from the VA? Did you ever find out why you weren't receiving this mail?**

- All the time they try to send mail but I get mail for my gi bill but when it comes to the medical side I don’t receive anything in the mail
- (*How come?*) I don’t think it was the mailing address, I honestly don’t have a clue. It could be because I don’t need anything. I went into there about a year ago because I had a medical emergency and they updated me to the [REDACTED] medical center.

5. **Have you ever signed in to VA.gov before? (If yes) About how often do you use the website?**

- Yes.
- (*How often?*) Probably in the past year twice because I haven’t needed anything and figured the VA would reach out for anything they need clarified. 

## First Task: Address validation with override and suggestions (10 minutes)

**Alright, now I am going to share keyboard and mouse controls and we are going to walk through the prototype.**

**(*Intro screen*) First, I just want to reiterate that this is a prototype... OK, when you're ready, please click "Go to the Prototype."**

**We are starting from the VA.gov homepage.**

1. **What would you do if you needed to change the address the VA had on file for you?**

- Let see. I think I would click on the person's name (Samara's note: the personalized menu) and go to Profile. 

2. **(*On Profile*) Now we are on the VA.gov profile. How would you change your mailing address?**

- Click edit mailing address.

3. **(*On the Edit form*) Since this is a prototype, we are going to simulate typing in a new address by having you click into any of the fields in this form. That will update the whole address. (*On the updated form*) OK, now you have entered a new address. How would you save it?**

- Just click Update.

**(*Address validation section*)**

1. **Now we are looking at a screen that says "Your address update isn't valid." What do you think this means?**

- It means the address is not complete
- (*How so?*) There are two different address for my address so I guess they need clarification and you should choose one that they think it is.

2. **Why do you think you are being told your address isn't valid? Why do you think you are seeing this screen?**

- Because there is more then one location for the address. DC is confusing because of the NW, NE,SE and they verify which is yours with the direction of the address for your home address. I can see right here it specifies NW or NE to see which I am talking about.

3. **What do you think will happen if you click Edit Address?**

- It will bring be back to the address screen to fill in the identifying numbers about the address to make it more prominent to which address I am talking about.

4. **What do you think "Suggested Addresses" are? Where did they come from?**

- Well from my understanding it comes to my address and there are more then one address associated with he address and they want to verify which it is.
- (*Where did it come from?*) I guess something that is automatically generated form the city I am located. I put in my address and it is listed for DC and there are other addresses within DC associated with my address. 

5. **How would you select the address you want to move forward with? What if you wanted to select the original address you entered?**

- I would click on the little circle next to the address.
- (*How would you select the original address?*) I would come up to the address and click the blue circle. 
- (*Why is it telling you it is invalid but can select it?*) To be honest, I am not sure. I would be concerned if medical notification or documents were sent to an address that was sent somewhere that wasn’t my address. When it comes to your address maybe there are three types off address that are associated I know DC is confusing but it can be the same other places
- (*What would you guess?*) Maybe you have the confidence that it is their actual address and are no other addresses for the individuals name. 

6. **Now that you have selected your address, please show me how you would save it.**

- Just hit continue.

**(*On Confirm screen*)**

1. **Why do you think you are being shown this screen?**

- Just to verify the address is the one you want to use. 

2. **What do you think will happen if you click "View Suggested Addresses?" Why do you think we give you the option to view suggested addresses?**

- It is possible that if I click cancel I will be taken to the main screen but the view suggested address I can change the address. 

**OK, please save your new address.**

**Alright, I have a few follow-up questions for you:**

1. **What could be improved about the process we just looked at? Do you have any questions about the process we just looked at?**

I am not sure. It seems it is self-explanatory but first time users it could be confusing. Maybe if there is more information such as if the address is incorrect or if that is the address they want to use it needs to be more specific. Just saying the address is wrong and someone on a time crunch trying to go somewhere like the VA and it wasn’t my assigned VA I would want it done quickly. 

2. **What did you find to be clear and easy to understand?**

- No, no questions. A confusing part for the mailing and home address there should be an explanation the difference between the two. 
- (*What was clear and easy to understand?*) Just updating the information and know that there can be more then one associated address and being able to go back and correct it was really clear. 

## Second Task: Address validation with override but without suggestions (5 minutes)

**Alright, now we are going to go through a similar process like we just went through, but it will be a little bit different this time.**

**First, please go to update your mailing address again. (*In modal after they click Edit*) Like before, please click into any field to update your address, and then save it.**

**(*On confirm screen*)**

1. **It looks like this address came up as invalid again, but this screen looks a little different than the last one. Can you tell me more about what you see and what's different than last time?**

- The address is different. I mean it looks the same to be unless it lets me go to continue and lets me select different address. Yes I noticed there were no addresses suggested.

2. **Why do you think there are no suggested addresses?**

- Maybe because there are no other address in DC that are associated with the address.

3. **Tell me what you think your options are at this point.**

- Well I can go ahead and look at the mail to verify or go ahead and edit if there is a spelling error or forgot the apartment number. 

4. **What would you do next?**

- Me personally, I would edit the address to ensure it is correct. 

(Participant had a suggestion)

- So what I think would be helpful if I am in an apartment and it says the address isn’t found or correct being able to put the name of the apartment complex it will allow you to select the complex then right in the apartment number. 
- (*Where would you enter the building name?*) Well me personally, I would like it under the edit under the mailing or home address so it can automatically populate like the suggested addresses before to already have the address placed in the system prior. 
 (*So the edit form would have a google maps function so you can type the name of the building and it will populate automatically?*) If you can just type in the name of the building then it will allow you to click yes this is the address I want. But yes google maps would be more helpful. 

**OK, please save your address. (*On confirm screen*) OK, please confirm and save.**

## Third Task: Address validation without override but with suggestions (5 minutes)

**Again, now we are going to go through a similar process like we just went through. We've got two more scenarios we are going to look at.**

**Like before, please go to update your mailing address again. (*In modal after they click Edit*) and click into any field to update your address, and then save it.**

**(*On confirm screen*)**

1. **Like before, the address you entered has came up as invalid, but this screen looks a little different than the last two we looked at. Can you tell me more about what you see and what's different than last time?**

- This one looks the same as the first but the second one didn’t have suggested address.
- (*Did you notice that you are not able to select your original address?*) No I didn’t not notice that. 

2. **Why do you think you can't choose the address you originally entered?**

- That is a good question. I am not really sure to be honest with you. I really don’t know.
- (*If you had to guess what would you say?*) Well the address does not exist. There is no road maybe there would be a st so the system picked that up.

3. **What would you do if the address you entered was indeed correct but you were not able to save it?**

- I feel like this happened to me before and I was stressed out by it. Maybe right it a different way such as Rd. instead of road. Then hope I am not doing something wrong or call the VA themselves that their system is incorrect and ask them to correct it manually. 
- (*Edit, call or correct?*) Yes

4. **Tell me what you think your options are at this point.**

- At this point I can cancel and not do anything and hope they don’t need to send me anything like usual. Verify my address is correct or cancel and call them to correct it manually. 

5. **What would you do next?**

- Prior you were allowed to select the original address but could...
- Like I said before the address is correct but the "road" or "street" is incorrect like it was prior to the other two there were other addresses associated but the first one there was not an associated address with the one provide so it was unable to be selected. 

**OK, please save your address. (*On confirm screen*) OK, please confirm and save.**

## Fourth Task: Address validation without override but with NO suggestions (5 minutes)

**We are going to go through one more scenario. Like before, please go to update your mailing address again. (*In modal after they click Edit*) and click into any field to update your address, and then save it.**

**(*On confirm screen*)**

1. **Like before, the address you entered has came up as invalid, but this screen looks a little different than the rest. Can you tell me more about what you see and what's different than last time?**

- It gives me the option to call the va benefits line for assistance. 
- (*Why no suggested address?*) Because probably this is literally a street that is nonexistent. 
- (*Why can’t you select the original address?*) It is most likely absolutely wrong. 

2. **Tell me what you think your options are at this point.**

- At this point I can call the hotline or edit the address again to see if I need to write out street or put an apartment number. I can cancel and go to the va to do it manually.

3. **What would you do next?**

- I would edit the address, cancel or just call the VA hotline. 

**OK, please go to edit your address. (on Edit form) Click into any field to update the address, and show me how you would save it.**

## Post-testing questions (2 minutes)

**OK, those are all the screens we are going to look at today.**

1. **Overall, how could we improve the different scenarios we looked at today?**

- I mean it is fine. Like I said the only suggestion I had was being able to put the building name. 

2. **What did you think was clear/what worked well?**

- Other then my screen doing something I don’t know what, having the ability to click boxes and chose other options it was helpful. 

3. **What questions do you have for me?**

- No. It is self-explanatory to me. Its been awhile since I was on there.

