# Veteran with Hearing Aid Interview

_B-P1, Friday December 6, 2019 at 9:30am ET_
 
**Are you comfortable if I record my screen and audio as we talk today?** <br>
That’s fine 

**M: Confirm about recording**<br>
Yup

**Can you tell me a little about yourself?**<br>
I was in the Coast Guard and I work at [Job location, job title]. What else do you want to know?

**You got the inside knowledge then. Can you tell me about your experience with technology?** <br>
I’m almost [age] and I’m not very good at it. I use CPRS at work. I basically use computers for social media and email. 

**Outside of work do you use a desktop or mobile device?** <br>
I’m really terrible. 

**What are your challenges when using computers or mobile devices?** <br>
Using them, period. I have My HealtheVet but I never went on to use it. I should. 

**Do you know what’s available through My HealtheVet?** <br>
I can talk to my healthcare provider and see my records. Can I order batteries?

**No** <br>
I order through the mail 

**Can you expand upon what you find challenging? Interactions?** <br>
It’s not worth my time. You try to do one thing and you have to go through 10 other things to get to it. Remembering passwords for 500 things. I have sheets of paper for passwords at work and home. 

**Can you tell me a little bit about your hearing aids?** <br>
I have this one in my left ear. It works great. It’s awesome. It masks the ringing in my ears so I love that about it. Wearing it at work is really helpful 

**How long have you been wearing them?** <br>
About a year 

**How often do you use them?** <br>
Every day. I put them in when I get to work and then I take them off after work. I live alone so I don’t need to hear anything

**What is it for?** <br>
(breaks up) tinnitus in one ear

**What are the biggest challenges you face with your hearing aid?** <br>
Nothing at all. They’re great 

**Have you ordered through the VA?** <br>
Yup

**How did you originally learn about the medical supplies benefit?** <br>
When I got my hearing aid. They filled out the first card so I’d know what model and the batteries that I need and the other parts

**Did you ever have any doubts about how the benefit worked?** <br>
I was surprised that they came. I was worried about them getting lost in the VA system.

**Did you ever wonder what you could order?** <br>
No, she (the doctor) explained 

**How would you explain this benefit to other Veterans?** <br>
That it’s amazing and a lovely thing to have. Something you should take advantage of. Buying a hearing aid in the real world is insanely expensive so having the VA to provide that, the batteries and everything else was amazing. I feel very fortunate.

**Can you think of any ways this benefit might better fit your needs?** <br>
No, it’s working great 

**How often do you place orders?** <br>
It lasts for six months. Right around 5 months I’ll send it in. 

**How do you place these orders. Cards?** <br>
It’s a little card you fill out. That would be nice if that was automatic. Like, you didn’t have to fill out the model number and make. It’s hard to make sure you write it on the next one. It doesn’t come pre-written out.

**Originally, how did you get the required form?** <br>
At the VA in [Location]. They gave me the card.

**How do you order now?** <br>
It comes with the box when the batteries come.

**Can you tell me what your typical order might look like?** <br>
It just has batteries. You have to order this thing on the end and there’s another little thing. Three separate things are supposed to come. You write it on the paper and it comes in a box

**What do you have to write?** <br>
The replacement thing. The name of it. It’s just in a little box on there. 

**Do you have to remember what to write in?** <br>
Yeah, that’s the hard part. When I fill out a card, I write it down somewhere else so when the new card comes I have it written down. 

**How long does the ordering process take you?** <br>
For me? 15 minutes, not even. 

**Do you feel like that’s a reasonable amount?** <br>
Oh gosh, yes 

**Is there any way you feel the experience falls short for you?** <br>
No, just having to remember the model numbers 

**What ways do you feel the experience is good?** <br>
Oh yeah, it’s fine 

**Can you tell me why you prefer to order via mail?** <br>
Cuz I’m more inclined to do it. I hate making phone calls so I’ll put those off until the very end. I guess I could do it on a computer but I guess I..

**How long has it taken to receive your orders on average?** <br>
About two weeks

**Is that sufficient for you?** <br>
Oh, yeah

**How do you feel about the communications you received, if any?** <br>
It just came. 

**How do you feel about that?** <br>
Well, I didn’t know if they’d gotten the letter. It’s just a tiny envelope and you think it’s gonna get lost. But it didn’t! So 

**Have you ever encountered any problems with the ordering itself?** <br>
No

**If you were to experience a problem, how would you go about solving issues?** <br>
There is a phone number I have. I keep it all in the hearing aid box. I try to stay organized 

**Have you ever tried any of the other ordering options outside of mail?** <br>
I didn’t know there were any other ones

**How would you think you would order batteries online?** <br>
Would I have to go on My HealtheVet?

**No. What would be easy for you?** <br>
There was a link somewhere. They send an email link and you just go on there and all the information would stay there so you would just press reorder. So you wouldn’t have to type it all in.

**Have you logged into VA.gov before?** <br>
I have a couple times. It’s like Blue Cross Blue Shield, you get $40 for logging in. I could force myself if there was a point to it. I don’t see the point. I log into VA.gov for work.

**Would you have any concerns about ordering the batteries online?** <br>
Not at all

**If we were to build a way to order online to suit your needs, how would you expect to find out about it?** <br>
Email maybe, would work

**Some sort of newsletter?** <br>
It would be better by itself. A lot of times when I get mail I put it into the recycling. Like, junk mail. 

**If you were to go online to order batteries, where would you go?** <br>
It would depend where the website was. If it was through VA.gov I’d go that way

**If you had to search for a way to order online, which search terms would you use?** <br>
VA replacement hearing aid batteries, probably 

**Broadly, is there anything else you’d like to share?** <br>
No, not really. I love them! I feel very fortunate to have them, so. 

**Do you have any questions for me?** <br>
Are you guys considering making it a way to reorder online?

**Yeah, we’re investigating whether or not Veterans would like you to do** <br>
I think younger ones would, but some my age and older may not. I work with a lot of older Veterans here and they don’t use computers either. They still use flip phones and stuff.

**What would you think about us bringing that feature on VA.gov** <br>
I don’t go on it for anything 

**Is there anything that you think could be improved with your experience ordering through the mail that you would see online?** <br>
That it would repopulate. If you put one order in then you wouldn’t have to put in all the information again. It would all be there.

**That’s a big sticking point with you. Having to fill out the form every time.** <br> 
Yeah 
