# Veteran with Batteries Interview

_SB-P3, Wednesday December 11, 2019 at 10:30 am ET_

**Can you tell me a little about yourself? (If stuck, ask about service, location, occupation, etc.)**<br>
I just turned [age] yesterday. I’m retired military. I’m [percentage] disabled. I was in a helicopter crash and broke my back and now I’m in a wheelchair. Parapelegic. I guess there called me an incomplete. I can move my legs but I can’t walk. I’m a chronic pain sufferer. 

**Tell me about your experience with technology.**<br>
I’ve got a smart phone. I get around okay with computer. Let’s see, uh, I have various electronics. I have tablets, you know. Things like that. 

**Do you use any assistive technology? Bluetooth hearing aids, readers, switches, etc.?**<br>
I have a motor on my wheelchair called Smart Drive. It bluetooths and it does when I push the wheel it drives. Is that what you’re talking about? Technology assistance. It’s awesome! The motor for me because I can go shopping and push a cart and get around stores and stuff. Makes it really nice. 
 
**Do you have any challenges using computers or mobile devices? If so, what are they?**<br>
Yeah, there is some! I have get my [age] year old nephew to straighten it out for me. It seems like young people can go through the electronics. I get baffled by it. 

**[If yes] are there certain types of interactions that are particularly challenging?**<br>
Gosh, recently my nephew connected my phone to my vehicles radio or stereo. I don’t know how to do that. 

**Can you tell me a little about your hearing aids?**<br>
Yes, I had one set by Octicon (sp?) and it wasn’t doing anything for me. I can’t hear a lot of tones, so words sound like gibberish to me. I now have a set of hearing aids that are more powerful. They do help a little bit better, but I still don’t hear a lot of things. I’ve missed a couple of medical procedures because I can’t hear and they were calling to confirm when they couldn’t get a hold of me they cancelled on me. They were important procedures that needed to get done. My hearing aids are kind of failing because my hearing is really bad. 

**How often do you use them?**<br>
I use them pretty much all the time when I’m awake. 

**What are some of the biggest challenges that you face with your hearing aids?**<br>
The ear piece is solid, it’s uncomfortable. Keeping up with the keeping them clean. Battery changes. Things like that. 

**Can you tell me about those battery changes?**<br>
A lot of times I don’t realize the battery has died because I can’t really hear that well. I don’t notice it. 

**How often does that happen?**<br>
Quite frequently

**How often do you find yourself needing to replace them?**<br>
Oh, every couple of days. When I need to replace them, I have to think about it and when I changed them last. 

**Can you tell me a little bit about your prosthesis?**<br>
I don’t have any other than my wheelchair. I’ve had surgeries and metal in my body. Reinforcement. Hip replacements. That’s about all I’ve had. 

**Do you wear compression socks?**<br>
Yes, I do. My right foot swells up really bad, so I wear compression socks every day. 

**How do you get those?**<br>
Through the VA.

**What does that process look like?**<br>
I just notified my clinic and they send them to me. I go online and go to secure message and stuff to contact them.

**How do you contact them online?**<br>
I sign in to the Veterans hospital site: My HealtheVet. They have secure messaging straight to my clinic. 

**Have you heard hearing aid batteries through the VA?**<br>
Yes, called the 1-800 phone number.

**How did you originally learn about about the medical supplies benefit?**<br>
Through the audiology clinic at the VA.

**Did you ever have any doubts about how this benefit worked?**<br>
Hmm, not really. I just, being 100% service connected I assumed it’s automatic. 

**How would you describe this benefit to other Veterans?**<br>
I’d probably tell them there’s a phone number they can call and order the batteries through. If the hearing aids are issued through the VA, or they can do to the audiology clinic and get batteries too. 

**What do you think about the benefit?**<br>
I think it’s good *laughs* Anything to help me hear is better. 

**In what ways could this benefit better meet your needs for prosthetic socks or hearing aid batteries?**<br>
Hmm, no, I haven’t had a problem getting them. 

**How do you place orders for batteries?**<br>
I speak to a person when I call because the brands have changed and I want to make sure I order the right ones.

**Can you describe the phone ordering process to me?**<br>
Yes, I call that number. I guess it does to Denver, Colorado. Once I go through all the number functions to get a live person they look up my information and we both confirm the correct battery. And then they mail it out to me.

**What does your typical order look like?**<br>
Yes [I order the batteries by themselves]. I don’t have any other items for this type of hearing aids. My other ones used to have little cotton filters, but these do not. 

**Does your order ever change?**<br>
It changed just recently when I got these different hearing aids.

**How often do you find yourself placing orders?**<br>
Maybe every 6 months. 

**How do you recall the details of the item(s) you order?**<br>
Oh! I have the battery pack to use for a reference of what batteries I’m getting.

**How long does the ordering process take you, on average?**<br>
Hm, about a week. From the time I call it in until I receive them.

**How long does the call take?**<br>
Probably about 5-8 minutes. 

**In what ways do you feel the experience falls short?**<br>
Without having to go through the different, you know, you gotta press different numbers to get to different places. Have a more direct line. 

**In what ways do you feel the experience is good?**<br>
It sure makes it a lot simpler to get the batteries and stuff. They’re mailed out to me. 

**Why do you prefer this method of ordering (over mail or online)?**<br>
That’s the only option that’s open to me that I’m aware of.

**Would you be interested in ordering online or over the mail?**<br>
Yeah 

**Do you think you’d prefer that?**<br>
It seems it would be a lot easier if I could do it online. 

**What do you think about the communications you receive after placing an order?**<br>
They’re good! I mean, I get them within about a week, so. I haven’t had any problems before. 

**Do you receive any email confirmation?**<br>
I get a notification that I have a package coming and it’s usually identified by Denver Logistics I believe. 

**Have you ever encountered any problems with your order?**<br>
No, I haven’t had any problems.

**How would you go about solving any issues with your order?**<br>
Well, if I did I would call them back right away. Make sure I get the right batteries. 

**What would concern you the most when ordering batteries online?**<br>
No, I’ve used the VA medications and ordered those online. Everything seems to work okay. 

**If we were to build a way for you to order online that suits your needs, how would you expect to find out about it?**<br>
I would imagine I would be notified by the VA. 

**How so?**<br>
They’d probably email me. 

**Where would you go to order batteries through the VA online?**<br>
Oh, gosh. I’m not sure. 

**If you had to search for a way to order them online, what search terms would you use?**<br>
I would probably go in on a VA site My HealtheVet and do a search form. 

**You said you would use My HealtheVet for medications, is there where you would think to find online ordering for batteries as well?**<br>
I would think so. 

**Have you ever used eBenefits?**<br>
Yes, I have.

**Have you experienced any problems?**<br>
I think it’s my password expires and I gotta go in and make up a new password. If I don’t go in there, after a certain period, the password expires and I gotta redo everything.

**What do you use eBenefits for?**<br>
I’ve been doing some research for getting assistance in modifying my house to make it wheelchair accessible. 

**Do you experience problems with My HealtheVet?**<br>
Haven’t had any problems. Maybe just slow in loading or something. I attribute that to my computer *laughs*. My impatience. 

**Have you ever logged into VA.gov?**<br>
Yes, I have

**What do you use VA.gov for?**<br>
I’ve been in it and I was doing research again for this housing assistance and stuff. 

**Is there anything else that you would like to share with us?**<br>
Hmm, no not off hand. What is this geared towards? Is there towards changing ordering systems?
