# Veteran with Hearing Aid Interview

_B-P7, Thursday December 12, 2019 at 9:30am ET_

**Can I record my screen and audio as we talk today?**<br>
Yes ma’am

**Can you tell me a little about yourself? (If stuck, ask about service, location, occupation, etc.)**<br>
Yes, I’m a VA patient since [year]. I am a Vietnam veteran so I’m a little older than other veterans. I was in a combat unit and then I got out of the Army after almost 4 years. Had some bad incidents, almost got killed a couple times, thought it wasn’t for me. I’ve been a corporate guy for three different major companies and I’ve held all kinds of different positions. Retired about 10 years ago, started a photography company and I’ve been doing photography since then. I just do minimal photography anymore. 

**Tell me about your experience with technology.**<br>
With technology? Yeah, I basically learned technology, the little bit I know, when I was with [company name] and Excel sheets and Word documents. Now in retirement I do mostly emails and learned to text. I use social media a little bit, Facebook I’m honestly, I don’t use it much cuz it’s crapped up with too much garbage. I’m not able to trust it as much. The texting, I learned to text within the last few years due to innovation of cell phones. I think I do okay for a 74 year old. 

**Do you regularly use a computer? Mobile device?**<br>
I do [use a smart phone]. My wife and I both have them. It’s almost like a computer anymore. I use the smart phone honestly when I’m traveling. I don’t use it around the house. I have a little office downstairs where I am now and I have a couple laptops, I use a big screen for photos
 
**Do you have any challenges using computers or mobile devices? If so, what are they?**<br>
Uh, no, I just use the basics actually. What I’m able to do is photography programs, a lot of that. I spend quite a bit of time doing that. So it’s Adobe Photoshop and Lightbox and programs like that. Basically editing photos, photos off a single lens reflex camera. 
      
**Can you tell me a little bit about your hearing aids?**<br>
The hearing aids! Yeah *laughs*, they’re a godsend. I got these in February of this year. I should have done this maybe three years ago. What was interesting about the VA process was, as I said, I’ve been under VA care since [year] when I was in [City], VA. I lost my first wife, moved up to [location] after I remarried and we were living about [x] miles from Ft Bevoir. I’ve gotten pretty good medicine, annual physicals, everything and they said I have bad hearing. I submitted a claim. When I was discharged they found in my records that I had bad hearing then, I was disabled then, I was a disabled veteran then and I didn’t know it. They processed me out. I failed the hearing test twice and they kept me there an extra day to retest me, and then they discharged me. It’s in my service records that I have had bad hearing since then and of course it’s gotten worse as I’ve gotten older. Like I said to the doctors many times, we got on with our lives. We weren’t treated well when we got bad from the Vietnam war and we just sucked it up and kept going. The doctor said the majority of you guys sucked it up and did the best you can. I’m grateful for these, they’re wonderful and I use them every day now. 
 
 **How often do you use them?**<br>
 I do [use them all day]. I get up in the morning, 6:30,  7, 7:30, whatever, and put them in. I’m an active senior, so active that I was on a church mission in August and lost on. When I went back to the VA I said one left out of my left ear and it was my fault cuz I had one of those safari hats on with a string and I pulled the hat off when I was taking pictures and it fell out and fell onto the ground somewhere. We looked for it, but we’re in the middle of the Serengeti safari range of miles. It was gone. Anyway, the VA gave me a strap on the back that the audiologist, this was when it was replaced in September/October, gave me a strap because I’m active and if I go out and do anything that active put the strap on. I didn’t know you could do that so she taught me something. She said most guys aren’t as active as you are. So I have the strap. I have it if I go on a safari again. 

**What type are they?**<br>
They’re like you see on the magazines. They’re over the ear. Resound. I looked them up, in fact I gave the article to the audiologist, it’s one of the top two or three rated by Consumer Report. They’re very light, modern electronics, you gotta power them up every day. You do that because you sit them in a cradle every night. You power them up. 

**Oh, you have rechargeable ones?**<br>
Yeah

**Was your first set rechargeable?**<br>
Yes! I just lost one so they just replaced the one on the left side. 

**What are some of the biggest challenges that you face with your hearing aids?**<br>
You gotta watch taking showers. You can’t get them wet. So, sometimes you get too fast and I’ve done this occasionally not much and then I remember I gotta take them out. Thats one thing, if you’re in bad weather you gotta really worry about that. I wear a hat so most of my activities I’m wearing a hat of some kind, a baseball hat, that sort of protects them. 

**Rechargeable aids! Do you ever have problems with the rechargeables?**<br>
It’s interesting, the audiologist, I told her I was going to Africa and was concerned about being in a remote village. Each night we were in a hotel that had generated electricity. So those of us with cameras that needed to be powered up and powered up devices, all I did was plug it in. So the charge over night is good for 30 hours. The beauty of the cradle is you can put them in the cradle and it recharges the hearing aid every night in the house. It gives 30 hours of charging every time you charge it up. You just learn how to manage it, and it’s been okay. I’ve learned how to do it

**Do you know if they have any option to use separate batteries?**<br>
I don’t know, that’s a good question. I may need to look at the book. Theres no batteries I need to replace, you stick it in the host case and that recharges it. That case, you plug it into the wall. It’s a cosmetic thing that a woman would take with her. What you do have to do, that’s the other thing to, you get ear wax and you gotta clean them. It’s not hard, it’s just you sorta can know when you’re not hearing as well as you should. Get a little tool and take them out of your ear and clean them. There’s a little plastic speaker that you have to keep clear of ear wax. There’s a brush and a little tool. It’s a brush tool thing. After you learn how to use it, it’s easy 

**Are there any additional accessories that need to be replaced?**<br>
Well, they have these little plastic suction cup things that go on the speaker. The VA supplies those, I haven’t had to order yet. They last for weeks, and then they get brittle so you have to sort of replace them. I haven’t had to do them. I’ve had them since february and only had to replace the plastic cups twice. It’s a suction thing that circles around the little plastic speaker. These are real small, these are in your ear canal and that plastic thing enables the, I guess you call the speaker, to not hurt your ear. That goes away too. Sometimes I’ll go ahead and scratch something and think I can’t do that. 

**Did you know that Veterans with hearing aids are eligible to receive batteries through the VA?**<br>
Yeah I do, they send a self mailer. Seems like the VA has thought this out. You mail and say you need more. It’s got your information on it, I think to Colorado. I don’t know, I need to go upstairs and look at it. I didn’t think to have it when I was talking to you. 

**What would you expect to be on the mailer?**<br>
It’s easy. It’s basically a tear-off thing. I can go get it, it can take me a second. It’s a blue tear off thing and you stick it in the envelope and mail it. 

**It’s prefilled?**<br>
It’s pre-addressed, yes. The little slip is filled out. I guess you just check the box. I can go get it to look at it for sure. I’ve done it once and it was easy. Let me go get it.
[participant showing us the mailing slip]
It’s addressed, it’s a self-mailer. Then on the back is this blue card. So, it’s a tear off card and it says detach and on it, I misspoken, you print your information. On that is, yeah. there you go. On that put your last name, you know, address, email. temporary permanent, date, please send 6 month supplies of batteries for the following devices. I haven’t had to do that. That’s for that. These things, here’s the little black ups. So, those I reordered once. And then the strap I was telling you about, here’s the clip strap. You clip on, I haven’t had to use it yet. You can see there’s a spring clip there that would do that. But the thing I use all the time is this, it’s a travel pouch they give you. Oh, I didn’t bring the recharger down here. You just sit this in your suitcase. And here are the plastic, it’s a black tip and on the end of it is a white, the white is the speaker. So, what they tell you to do is make sure your speaker is cleared. That your suction cups are clean. and then these are the things you replace when you need to. It’s as needed. The little tool, it’s a brush to clean the ear wax off. At the end is a little wire thing and that little wire thing enables you to get inside, oh I’ll take one out to show you. So, I just took it out, this is my left side. It’s over the ear. And then what you do is you clean this out. You brush it, clean it out, and that’s what you do. You do this clean out oh, depending on how much wax you have, at least once a week if not twice a week. I just put it back on so I can hear you. That’s a tutorial for you. 

**So you have that little blue form, how did you order the non-battery things?**<br>
You put this item number on it. This suction cup thing has an item number. And it’s one of the 10 GN hearing da da da da… this is what they sent for everything. If you need more you mail it in and they send it to you. Here’s the pin number, it’s a rag. You use these kinds of things to clean computers and cameras. It’s a kit brush and cloth it’s called. So they tell you to keep the packaging to be able to reorder that order number. You could.. it says brand name serial number and type, and accessories for devices, and that’s where this one goes. What I would do for the suction cups and little white things, I’d fill those out and put an item number here. This form is sort of generic. The VA uses different models they were telling me. I have over the ear, in the ear, and they say they have a couple different preferred vendors. 

**When you were given that mailer, were you told you could order over the phone or online?**<br>
Uh, I don’t remember honestly. Maybe they did tell me that. I haven’t had to do it but once so I don’t know. That’s a good idea. If I could order online, I do a lot of stuff online. I’d have to go get my other, oh it’s a booklet that comes with it and maybe it says it in there. 

**How long has it taken to receive that order in  the mail?**<br>
It was just a couple weeks 

**Do you feel that was sufficient?**<br>
Yeah, it was probably more like 8-10 days

**Did you receive any communication?**<br>
Uh, no. That’s interesting. No I just mailed the card in and got the thing in the mail 

**Ideally, what kind of communications would you like to receive?**<br>
It would be neat if you sent in the form, maybe I need to look at my old emails, we get an email to say they’ve received their order. Maybe they do that, I don’t remember honestly

**Did you encounter any sort of problems writing out the form or shipping?**<br>
No. 

**If you had experienced an error, how would you solve that issue?**<br>
Uh, I’d actually what I’d do is I’d call the VA. And say can you give me the number of these folks in Colorado. That’s what I would do if I didn’t have an email. The folks at the CVOC (CBOC?) are great. I’m blessed I’m lucky I’m in a region that has services other regions don’t necessarily have. I think it’s based off [city]. Theyre in the process where they’re gonna build a new medical system. THey’re looking for land. They’re gonna stand it up right here in [city]. Folks are moving out of the congestion in DC and going south. The VA did a five year study and identified that the growing population in the region is [city] cuz most folks can go all the way down to [city]. Downtown DC is an hour, hour and a half maybe two. Theres a cluster here in [city] of hundreds. I started a community of veterans with 1200 homes, and we have 118 members already. Theres veterans all over the place here already. Theres another community with 3000 homes and they got another couple hundred veterans. It’s a good idea and it’ll do well. The CVOC’s (CBOC?) will just fold it into this larger healthcare system. The hope is that this will get built out over the next three years. 

**How did you originally learn about the resupply benefit?**<br>
The audiologist. The process basically after they do the hearing test and then they say you qualify, I had that downtown. I’ve known I’ve had suspect hearing for maybe 2-3 years. They said when you’re ready they can provide those. I had vanity then so I avoided that for about a year. My wife was tired of having to repeat stuff so I made the commitment last year to go get my hearing aids. It was an exam, I went and filed a claim cuz I said I’ve been disabled with the hearing and a couple other things and I could use some help to pay for things the VA doesn’t cover. When I filed the claim, what they do is they have the claims side of the VA and they have th benefits side. The claims side is an administrative side and then they require third party verification. I went to an audiologist who did the third party exam and she found the same. So they sent me back to the VA and you get down and have an appointment and they interviewed me, fitted me, gave me a test, and then ordered them. Then after three weeks, well the problem was they probably had them within a couple weeks, but the hearing with VA is a big deal so they swamped, so I had a meeting to teach me how to use them and then she tuned them to my specific situation in both ears. They’re both electronically tuned and it’s pretty impressive. That process didn’t take long after you get the appointment. That audiologist was done after 20 min. 

**When it comes to receiving batteries and accessories, how would you describe it to other veterans?**<br>
I’m grateful, and I’m grateful to them overall. These are $2-3k and some can be $7-8k. Whatever this is that amplifies your hearing, I can’t imagine it being that expensive but they are. My mother-in-law is still living independently and she got hearing aids about the same time I did and hers were about $5k. And you know, she lives independently but her medical coverage is medicare like mine is now and being older I would think they would offer out some more but apparently they don’t. 

**In what ways do you think this benefit could better fit your needs?**<br>
To me, what I like about these is it’s pretty simple after you get some experience. You worry about charing your batteries every day and putting them in, I can tell when I don’t have them in it’s a dramatic difference. Anyway, what you really play with is charging them and cleaning them, and keeping the speaker part clear of ear wax, brushing them, the VA had me come back to get the second one when I lost it, and her comment was cuz she had seen me three times, she said to me I was keeping them very clean. I guess I’m doing okay 

**If you were to right now, where would you go to order hearing aid batteries online?**<br>
I don’t know! That’s a good question 

**Venture a guess? What would be your good instinct?**<br>
I actually would call the VA at CVOC and ask them where do I do that. What’s neat about it is, I have a card here, that’s another thing. That as a dermatologist. I’m getting them confused! Appointments for the VA go out once. They saw me two months ago or so and we’re gonna send a card in another month and schedule an appointment for next year. It’s maybe 6-8 weeks to get an appointment. You ask what I would do, I would call them first. What I would do first is i would fill out this card and mail it in. 

**If you had to search for a way to order online, what would you plug into google?**<br>
I’d go “VA healthcare hearing aid accessories” but I’d Google that 

**You would rather order online than the card?**<br>
Yes, that would be more convenient

**Have you ever logged onto VA.gov?**<br>
I have! Maybe you can help me. I asked this question a couple days ago. What I’m looking for, I don’t know this, the question basically is this: I have a veteran’s group of 118 guys, there’s some gals as well, the average age of us all is probably Vietnam era, but Vietnam and Desert Storm era. The majority of us are in some sort of medical care whether it’s VA, Medicare, or whatever it is. Theres benefits for us veterans. We do programs, okay, so we had what we’re looking for is a spokesperson from the VA that could come out for an hour program and go over the benefits the VA offers. There’s a humongous amount of information already. The idea came from one of my members. The common conversation is what are the benefits as they update them, what are they really. How do they influence you, or update you, or whatever. The American Legion has folks who will do talks. The VA doesn’t have a spokesperson that would do that. I could see why, you’re overwhelmed as it is. What I got from talking to the CVOC (CBOC) had been with the VA for 4-5 years and is a pharmacist and I asked her the same question and you go on the VA website and the VA is set up so you have the healthcare, benefits, and cemetery part. But I said it’s overwhelming. I look at that and I’m trying to tee up a program for this February or March for our community and one of the ideas that came forward was the VA would come out and talk to us. But I found out they probably won’t do that. (continues talking) Me being a management guy my whole career, you can take people to lead them to water and drink but if they’re not gonna do it you cant force them. I was trying to find this source or sources and there’s a lot of information out there. It’s almost like you still gotta go to school. That’s a little bit of a reason and excuse. I’m gonna keep trying because it will benefit 118 of us. A guy the other day asked what to do to pre-arrange my burial. I showed them the cemetery portal on VA. I’ve gotten to know sort of how they run, but you need to qualify, and then my wife needs to check out if spouses can be buried there. 

**Have you ever used or logged into My HealtheVet?**<br>
I have.
 
**What do you use that for?**<br>
The blood pressure thing. I had a good experience with my blood pressure. What it was, was I had high blood pressure three years ago. It’s a health net program where they assigned me a nurse and she was great. They sent me the machine and I had to send it back because I was discharged. It was a machine that would electronically transmit, and if she didn’t see the electronic transmission in the 70s, 80s, 90%s, she would call you. By darn, they kept track of me for about a year and adjusted my medicine. They really worked at that and I am a proponent of that program. The Telenet thing and the thing you were telling me

**You would order prescriptions through My HealtheVet?**<br>
No, but they would tell me when things were coming

**What about eBenefits?**<br>
I’ve seen it in the dropdown, but I haven’t used it yet. 

**Anything else?**<br>
VA really cares, I am blessed for the region I am in. I tell everyone to check them out. 
