# Veteran with Hearing Aid Interview

_B-P3, Monday December 9, 2019 at 9:30am ET_


**I’m just confirming if you’re comfortable if I record my screen as we talk today.** <br>
Yes

**Can you tell me a little about yourself?**<br>
I’m an Air Force veteran. I’m currently a director of music at a local church. I have two kids in college. My husband works over in the national labs. And I have a dog that might bother us when we’re talking 

**Can you tell me about your experience with technology?**<br>
I used to, my Air Force job I was a physicist and a scientist and I did a lot of computer software development for satellite design and testing in space environments. I have extensive computer knowledge. 

**Do you use a computer now or mobile devices?**<br>
Every day

**Do you have any challenges?**<br>
I think the biggest challenge in using mobile devices is the fact that it’s sometimes hard to find things. When you’re on the computer you can pull up the menu or the site map it’s pretty easy to locate what you’re looking for. But because a phone in particular is smaller, they tend to crunch things all together so you can't really find what you’re looking for. I don’t have that problem on my iPad as much because it is a bigger screen, but phones tend to consolidate things into too small of a space.

**What do you encounter?**<br>
Partly, I have a newer phone now so I’m able to use the pinch and squeeze method to get the screen bigger or to locate exactly what I’m looking for. I’ve gotten good at finding the button that says search. Once you get there you’re, you're pretty much okay usually.

**Can you tell me about your hearing aids?**<br>
Right now, I’m a musician as well so I use my ears every day. I found that I had some high pitch hearing loss in one of my ears. But the real problem is I’ve had tinnitus since my mid twenties when I was on active duty. So, we’re using these to try to alleviate my tinnitus symptoms. I wear them all day and I use them especially - I use the hearing part of it in crowds because my high pitch hearing loss and the tinnitus just become huge so using the hearing aids to amplify the sound right around me makes it easier to hear.

**What are the biggest challenges you face with your hearing aids?**<br>
I think the biggest challenge I face with my hearing aids is... that I wish they had more selections. I know that sounds very first world. My husband has an old hearing aid and it turns on and off. Mine has settings for different things. If I’m in a crowd I’ve got one setting. If I'm using it for tinnitus, I've got another setting. If I'm in a building that has a t-loop, I have another setting. But I wish there were a couple more settings so I could go straight to a restaurant setting. I control everything with my phone. I can pull up my phone and set it once I’m in a restaurant, which has a different environment from being outdoors. The second thing with my hearing aids is I have both an Android phone and an iPad, I’m weird, I know. They operate differently on the Android and iPad. They’re much more connected and fluid and functional on the iPad. On the Android the bluetooth can drop occasionally and things like that. They’re telling me they’re working on the software and I tell them if Apple got it right, you can too. 

**Have you ever ordered hearing aid batteries through the VA?**<br>
I have, but I can’t order them online. I found that out because my husband is retired Air Force. I have not retired; I have a VA disability rating. So when I went online, I'm connected through the DEERS site through him. It wouldn't allow me to create my own log in using my email because that email is already in use with the other side. So I couldn't order online. I use the phone system and order through Denver. 

**Where did you order from?**<br>
eBenefits.gov or VA Benefits, I wrote it down. They said you already have an account when I tried to create an account with my personal email. I got my password reset, logged in, and it turns out it’s my husband’s retired connection. So it wouldn’t let me use my SSN in order to get to my half of the benefits page. I’ve never had to use the online benefits so this summer when I tried to use the hearing aid benefits, I didn’t know what to do. I haven't called the VA yet to ask how I can make this happen. I can’t be the only VA beneficiary who’s also a military dependent. So, I cant figure out how to make that happen. That's the thing with the VA - finding someone to ask.

**How did you originally learn about the medical resupply benefit?**<br>
When I went in to get my hearing aids, they gave me a packet of information with the phone number, how to take care of your hearing aids, and reorder. They told me that, about a month before you run out of batteries, you want to be sure to reorder them. So I put all of that information in the contact thing in my phone.

**Do you have any doubts about how your benefit works?**<br>
No, they were very clear when they explained it to me. I had to go in and get something adjusted and the technician explained the process better than the doctor did. The technician was fabulous and explained about the phone thing and how to order online. I didn’t know until then that I could do it online. 

**The option’s there, but there’s a hurdle for you specifically. The way she explained the benefit, was that you could do it through the phone?**<br>
Yes

**How would you describe the benefit to other veterans?**<br>
Well, I’ve had to describe it a couple of times. One of my classmates from college was talking about how he was going to have to get hearing aids and how expensive they were, and I asked him, “Have you gone to the VA yet?” and he said no because in the past it was hard to get a hearing aid appointment. So, I talked him into going down and getting a hearing appointment and explained to him that it took a couple weeks to get an appointment but they fitted me with new hearing aids that connected to my phone and they were so much easier to use than I thought they were going to be. So he went down, he was happy, and got tested and they have his hearing aids on order now.

**What do you think about the benefit?**<br>
It’s over the top, it’s fabulous. I didn't expect that when I got the hearing aid. It was one thing you go to Walmart or Target and right next to the checkout is hearing aid batteries. Honestly, when I first got the hearing aid, it kinda popped into my head how much it costs. I also originally asked about rechargeable ones and the technician said that for most of her patients she didn’t recommend them because they didn’t have as strong or as long a battery life as they should have for a full day of use. So she convinced me to use the one with the batteries and said don’t worry about it they’re resupplied and you get everything you need. So from then beginning I knew I’d be covered but I was worried before she explained it to me.

**Is there any way to better fit your needs?**<br>
I think, because I have an account on My HealtheVet, and that’s how I order my prescriptions... I go online, hit submit, and they mail it to my house. I don’t know why the batteries and supplies can’t be ordered the same way. You get x number of refills a year and you know you need wax guards, you know you need all these pieces, so why not have them all on the site so you can just order it there. So, it seems like an extra step to call a phone number to Denver (and I assumed Denver was for me because I’m in [State]) or to get online through the eBenefits site to order them when you're already using My HealtheVet. Even when I logged into MyHealtheVet, I clicked on it and it sent me to the eBenefits site. I think it's an unnecessary step - I think I should have one place to go for your medical care.

**I know you said you tried to go on eBenefits and you weren’t able to, but you found out you could order through the phone. Do you order through the live agent or automated?**<br>
Well, you can only order batteries through the automated system. So if you need other supplies like wax guards or dome pieces that go in your ear, you have to talk to a human. If you should be able to do an automated thing, you should be able to order the dome and the wax guards. The thing I was happy with when I first called was that they said, "you have a 45 min wait, but if you want to put your phone number in, we'll call you back," which was great because I didn’t want to sit there for 45 minutes listening to really terrible music. It wasn’t 45 min it was more like 20-25 minutes before they called me back. So the two things would be - it would be great if there was a system to get everything you need. By the time you need batteries you also need those other supplies, so why not do it at the same time?

**Can you describe what your typical order might look like?**<br>
Well I get the 6 month supply of batteries. And I ask for the 6 month supply of wax guards. And the little plastic domes that go on the top are really really fine, which is good because they're comfortable, but they tear easily. I get a package of those so I have a replacements. I replace wax guards about every month. So I ask for a 6 month supply of each of those things. 

**Does your order ever change?**<br>
It hasn’t.

**How do you recall the details of the items?**<br>
They wrote it down for me when I first got my hearing aids. These are the things you get replaced every 6 months. How to take care of them, how to clean it, and everything like that.

**How long does it take on average?**<br>
Like I said when I called in and it said I have a 45 min wait, I just gave them my phone number and 25 min later they called and the phone call lasted 3 maybe 4 minutes. They asked what I need and I said batteries, wax guards, and domes and they said all right and went through SSN and everything and said they’d be on their way.

**Where do you feel this experience falls short?**<br>
I think that it falls short in the fact that I wish I could have been able to do it online - because that day I ordered medication so I wish I could do it through MyHealtheVet. I wish that the automated system would let me order everything I need, not just batteries. The last thing is, when I get my medications through the VA in the mail, I get a tracking number. I don’t get a tracking number through phone. I don’t know when they’re gonna come, usually it’s 2-3 weeks, but I'm still not sure. I don’t know when it's gonna get here, because there’s no tracking number.

**Ways experience is good?**<br>
The fact that I can get them is good. I was very surprised that they were going to supply those as well because you don’t get that through other - if I had to get these through another insurance, I wouldn’t get my batteries for free. I think it’s good in that I can contact that phone number. It’s obviously a slow one, but they’ve found a way to make it quicker and less stressful on the person calling in. But as I said I think the whole process seems pretty quick, uhm, and I get them, they’re ready. If I need something immediately, I know that they are products I can pick up at Walmart and for some reason I can pick the same kind at Walmart. If I run out of wax guards I can run down (to the VA) and they can give me a couple and I'm ok. I’m fortunate because I live in a city that has a VA, and I can go down there and, apart from parking, it's not a big problem. I know for people living outside of the city that would be far more difficult. 

**Is there any reason you might prefer to order over phone?**<br>
Ordering via phone would be fine especially if I had a question. You know, “I’m running out of wax guards too fast, can I get them sooner?” is something I could ask over the phone. So if I had a question, I'd want to use the phone and not an online service.

**How long has it taken to receive your orders on average?**<br>
About 2-3 weeks.

**Do you feel like that’s reasonable?**<br> 
Uhm, well, no. I can drive to Denver in 6 hours so I don’t understand why, but I get it’s a government thing. But it doesn’t seem to make sense - why wait 2-3 weeks, it seems you push the button and someone puts the batteries and stuff in the box it shouldn’t take that long to get it mailed. I don’t know if this is the only place that does this for all Veterans, in which case I can get that it's slow. If it's multiple centers, it doesn't make sense to me that it takes 2-3 weeks.

**Have you received communication?**<br>
I haven't recieved any communications after placing an order.

**How would you prefer to receive communication?**<br>
I’d like to know it’s coming. My email and everything are all connected. I get text messages for my appointments, I get email reminders for my medications and appointments. There's no reason at all that that can't be linked into this. When it gets shipped I should get a text message or email. I don’t need a tracking number as long as I know it’s on the way. I checked my email this morning and I got an email from the VA that my prescriptions are on their way. I like getting the emails that they've been shipped and they’re coming this week. Especially if you're looking to travel - if you’re waiting for something for two weeks, it would be nice to know. I would err on the side of 6-8 weeks in advance to order rather than the month they suggest.

**Have you ever encountered any problems with ordering and shipping?**<br>
Just the ones I’ve already indicated. You usually have to wait online, and wait to get them. Not getting them, no that hasn’t happened. I’ve always gotten them.

**How would you go about solving order issues?**<br>
I guess I’d call the number and say, “hey, I ordered on this date and I haven’t received them yet. Did they get shipped? Do I get new ones?" If I get desperate, I can go to Walmart for batteries. But if I need wax guards I could go to the walk-in VA clinic. Because there isn’t communication, it’s one-way communication. I contact them. I don’t get feedback communication. 

**Have you needed to return?**<br>
No.

**If you did, how would you initiate?**<br>
They send a label in the box that you can stick back on there and mail it back. They even send an envelope with a little blue card that has what you need on it so you can mail it in. That’s another option. I’ve never used the mail in service.

**Why not?**<br>
My birthday says I’m a boomer, but I’ve got younger kids and I've been connected to technology since college. For me, it’s just as fast. We pay our bills online, we do everything online. I mail christmas or birthday cards. I don’t think of popping something in the mail.

**What do you think about ordering batteries online?**<br>
I wouldn’t have a problem ordering them online. I order online. I am comfortable with it. I could tell you, my in-laws would be horrible with it. But I don’t have a problem with it.

**Any concerns about ordering online through the VA?**<br>
No, I have no concerns getting my medicine through the VA. The sites are secure, I use secure passwords, so I would not at all be concerned.

**How would you find out about the benefit online?**<br>
I receive the e-newsletter through the VA about what’s coming up and notices through an inbox message through MyHealtheVet. I’m on social media but the VA tends to get buried in social media. It’s not one of the top pages that comes up. I guess they don’t pay enough money to get them to pop up high enough. Occasionally I see things on social media. I do have a couple subscriptions to VA program newsletters through the DAV and through the Women’s Veterans organizations where they share current information and when things coming up. That’s originally how My HealtheVet came up and I found out about it. I think through emails and newsletters is how I would find out. And at the VA there’s something sitting on a corner with the latest information and updates.

**Where would you go to order hearing aid batteries online?**<br>
Well if I could, I would do it through MyHealtheVet. Right now, the only source I know about is eBenefits site.

**If you had to search, what search terms?**<br>
Uhm, “Veteran hearing benefits” would be the first term I would use.

**Is there anything else you’d like to share with us?**<br>
Well I think the biggest thing is that the VA should have a single stop. It’s become very obvious that there’s a benefits site, and a HealthyVet site, and somewhere or other, the two need to connect. You need separate logins for both, separate registrations for both. There are veterans of a "certain generation" who will never do that. As veterans from current active duty they’re going to want to be connected, but right now, there’s too many stops to try and figure out which stop applies. There should be one clearinghouse - at least at the top level to filter down to the others. 

**Do you have any questions for me?**<br>
So, your goal is to eventually develop a way to make this more streamlined? Is that why?

**Yeah, we’re trying to learn a little more about the pain points that exist to improve the process**<br>
Cool. 
