# Veteran with Hearing Aid Interview

_B-P4, Monday December 9, 2019 at 10:30am ET_

**Can I record my screen and audio as we talk today?**<br>
That is correct

**Can you tell me about yourself?**<br>
I was in the Marines. Moved to [Location], worked. I retired once again and… (talking fast, missed what he said) we have 5 grandchildren. I’m retired but I am always looking for something to get involved with. I appreciate what you’re doing because it is quite difficult. 

**Can you tell me about your experience with technology?**<br>
I can work a keyboard, screen. I have a technology component in my company that did some high-tech technology work, but I don’t consider myself a technical wizard. I can work around a website. 

**Do you regularly use a computer or mobile device?**<br>
I use an Apple at home, a full screen desktop. I have a laptop, an iPad, and an iPhone. I switch back and forth. 

**Do you have any challenges?**<br>
Nope

**Do you use any other assistive devices besides hearing aids?**<br>
No 

**Are there any sort of interactions that are challenging for you with your devices?**<br>
No, some of the devices you have to log on with the password and once you get through that if it saves your password you’re in pretty good shape. I like to travel and check. I set up my laptop to be able to do that. 

**Can you tell me about your hearing aids?**<br>
So, I guess I got my hearing aids might almost be 3 years ago by now. They’re called Oticon (sp?). They work fine, I don’t have any real issues. I had to go back once and have them refitted. I found the batteries are intermittent. I found that sometimes the batteries will last two days, sometimes five days. I’ve mentioned to the VA they should look into their QA program. The ordering is problematic for sure. I’ve tried using the email online service and that failed every time. I ended up defaulting to the phone call. You get put on hold for 30-45 minutes to do that as well. The reason for that, if you wanted to just get batteries it seems that it’ll allow you to do that on the automative system. But if you need to purchase wax protectant and the seals, you cant do that. So, you wind up having to suffer through this 30-45 min wait which seems silly. The website is in my opinion a total failure. I’ve had no success going through the website. They want me to go through eBenefits, I don’t know why, and that process has never acknowledged or recognized me. It seems like I can order batteries on Amazon in a couple min that this system should be easier.

**How often do you use your hearing aids?**<br>
The occasion, like today I don’t have them in because I’m home alone and can raise the volume on my computer. If my wife is home and we’re watching tv I’ll have them in. I wear them 85-90% of the time. I wear them when I travel. When I’m home by myself I can hear the doorbell, I give myself a break. 

**Biggest challenges?**<br>
I think they’re fine. I’m looking at the technology now where you can get hearing aids that go right in the ear so those are tempting to consider so you don’t have volume control behind your ear. It seems technology might have outpaced the VA. The ability to recharge your hearing aids instead of replacing batteries, which seem like a much better option for when you’re traveling so you can plug them in and recharge them. I would say those are the two things. I don’t think VA has kept face with some of the technology advancements. I hear the commercials from Auto Bell (sp?) when I work out. I think purchasing batteries is a dated concept. 

**If they were offered, you would prefer rechargeable?**<br>
Absolutely, I would want to consider that instead of traveling around with little small metal disks in your pocket all the time. I mean these are commercials on tv. I don’t know how well they’ve been tested, but I’d be a trial participant for that. 

**How did you originally learn about about the medical supplies benefit?**<br>
When I actually was fitted for the hearing aid at the VA facility, they gave me the paperwork for the process of ordering batteries. There’s through the mail, over the phone, and online through eBenefits. Through the mail seemed like it wasn’t the way to go. They give you the addressed envelope, you check off what you need. Over the phone they’d arrive 5-7 days and not worried about getting lost in the mail. I tried eBenefits twice and I quit after that. I sort of plan for losing about an hour when I have to make the phone call to do it. I should probably try the mail if eBenefits isn’t going to work. Ideally that’s where we are right? You should be able to log on. I can log on my phone and look at my accounts from (bank) in about 5 seconds. The steps you have to go through on eBenefits are painful. 

**What are those painful steps?**<br>
One was that it said I wasn’t in the system. So then I had to go to another website, which then checked and said I was in the system. So there seems to be two systems that don’t talk to each other. Again, it’s been a while since I’ve done it. I went to eBenefits and it asked me to put in like my SSN and it didn’t recognize me. It told me I had to register on another site. I believe I’m registered on DPass, which I believe is what they trigger to. My payment shows up once a month and I can get on the DPass website. Theres something about eBenefits for batteries where they do a double security check I can’t seem to get through. On one occasion I did get through and the dropdown menus were not very intuitive and I just quit. I’m not of the Amazon generation, but I can make my way around it. You can go in there and drop down and say, “okay, these are the wax guards i need. domes i need. here’s the serial number” boom, sent to you. eBenefits isn’t like that at all. 

**It just wasn’t able to validate you?**<br>
Right, they told me that they couldn’t validate you. One time I did get into eBenefits and I could see hidden off to the side a dropdown to hearing aids. I didn’t have any success, so I quit. 

**Did you ever have any doubts about how this benefit worked?**<br>
No, uh, it does seem a little awkward in that I feel like it could be abused. It seems like the VA would have enough technology on usage rates and could push batteries 2-4 weeks until they expect usage to go on batteries and other devices. At no time when you call does anybody really question that you’re asking for more batteries. That either tells me they don’t have faith in their product or there’s some waste going on. They should know if they sent me a package with 6 batteries, as that with normal usage should last me at a minimum 10 days. If I did the math on that, why would they just not push the batteries. Why would I request batteries? You’re always gonna need them, so why isn’t it an auto refill? It seems silly to do it this way. You can go on any website and say you want paper towels sent to you and how long and the computer figures it out. It seems like we have a human in here when we don’t really need it and it’s inefficient. 

**How would you describe this benefit to other Veterans?**<br>
I would describe it as difficult. So, I am pleased that I am able to get hearing aids from the VA. I am pleased that they offer the batteries at no cost, but I think the process is awkward and cumbersome at best. I block out two hours to order batteries. I know it sounds silly, I could do it in the mail, but my confidence is not as high as when I can speak to the person. The technology is difficult. I don’t know why there are this many gates to get through. We’re not talking about really expensive items, it just seems like it would save your password and they would have the serial number for the hearing aids so why is that so difficult 

**In what ways could this benefit better meet your needs for batteries?**<br>
Website. They need to embrace technology. It’s not like I’m getting a brick of gold from the VA, it’s batteries. To get them, you have to go through several gates into the system to get it. 

**You said through the website, but where would you like to place these order?**<br>
I would like to be able to do like I do. I’d like to go up into the search bar and type in, “VA ordering hearing aid batteries” and the website would come up. But that’s not the case. You go into a black hole when you try to do that. It should be that simple, right? You should be able to go into the search bar and a VA home site and it would say Hearing Aids and a dropdown menu that would be simple to use. You can get the batteries over the phone through the VA system, but you have to stay on hold anyway to get the wax guards and the domes. When you call for the batteries, you’re also calling on the same line as the amputee prosthetic socks. Like, what does one have to do with the others. They should be streamlined. It’s not very well done. 

**Can you describe the agent-assisted phone ordering process to me?**<br>
You put your phone on speaker and have a book with you, or be working on something else because you’ll be on the phone for 30-45 min. There’s no setup that says, “We are experiencing a high volume of calls” like Apple does and you can leave your number and they’ll call you back. This is back to the 1930s. You’ll be on painful hold and there’s nothing you can do about it. We could learn so much from these big companies like Apple and Amazon. They all have a callback system. Why not just say we’ll call you back in 30 min? Great, perfect, I can get on with my day. This is like back to the 50s. Once you get through to somebody it’s quite easy. The individual is knowledgeable and it’ll ship out in the next 3-5 days and you’re all set. I go back to: Why isn’t this a push system? Which is what the military is pushing to. Getting ammo at the right place at the right time, but we cant push out batteries. There’s some sort of job security program. 
        
**What does your typical order look like?**<br>
I try to be a good user of tax payer dollars. I sort of track my own use on the wax guard which is the little piece that goes in your ear so it sits comfortably. Theres domes, so I try to figure out if those last about 2 weeks before you throw them away. then I’ll see how many I have and project how many I need and when I call that’s what I’ll try to order. I’ll add a 20% add for that so I have extra. For batteries I believe they have a certain amount they’ll send you. When I’m down to about 3 weeks or so I’ll call to order them again. 
        
**Does your order ever change?**<br>
You know, that’s a great question. I’ve only done it 3 times so my recollection is a little fuzzy. If they asked me how many batteries I wanted or they sent me a supply. I think they sent me a supply and I tried to figure out how many I needed and when to call for the next supply. I don’t think I called and said, “Can you send me a month supply” I believe it’s a 6 month supply of batteries. They know they have quality issues because they’re padded. 

**Do you find the amount they send you is right?**<br>
Yeah, but that’s work on my part to do that. I’m being an efficient tax payer. I can tell you that when my dad passed away in 2010 he had boxes of hearing aid batteries because he was of the depression era. If you could get it from free for the VA you order them and stockpile the things. That’s not the right thing to do. There’s probably a lot of that going on. I try to be an efficient tax payer about it. 
  
**How often do you find yourself placing orders?**<br>
I would say it’s about every 6 months. Like, I don’t have a set process. I have the box they send me and see I have plenty. When I get down to about 2 weeks, then I’ll call. I just gauge it that way. I refuse to get too scientific on this because I ran into some quality issues. This isn’t gonna be a perfect science. Batteries do have different life spans on them. I er on the side to fudge it a little. I don’t wanna be without batteries, it’s the whole purpose of having the hearing aids. Which brings me back to the point like if the technology is there, to be out of the battery business it would be cost effective to be out of the battery business. 

**How do you recall the details of the item(s) you order?**<br>
When I was fitted they gave me a sheet from them that gave me the information for my hearing aids. It tells me brand, model number, serial number, battery size, wax guards I need, and the domes I need. So I just pull this out of my file when I make that phone call. Then I’m all set to do that. Like I said, I’ve never waited less than 30 minutes and after about 40 minutes I usually quit and try it again another day. 

**That sheet of paper you have. When you do call in, are those live patients asking?**<br>
They’ll just say, “what is it you need” i tell them the brand name and model number. I’ll say I need the batteries and I give them the size. I tell them I also need wax guards and an idea of how many I need of those. 8 packs, 12 packs. Same with the domes. You get more usage out of the wax guards and the domes than the batteries. So I sit and do a little math on what I need to do that. 

**In what ways do you feel the experience falls short?**<br>
You know, again we’re going over the same ground. I feel like there should be easier website access, a dropdown menu, and defaults of what you can order. It should have a min and a max based off shipping requirements. Whatever makes financial sense when they’re shipping them out. These could easily be dropdown menus. I don’t know why my model number and serial number cant be saved. If I give my SSN it should auto populate. We can take the human out of this process. This thing was designed by a caveman. 

**In what ways do you feel the experience is good?**<br>
I’m hard pressed to come up with anything good. I appreciate the technicians who did my hearing aid test, the fitting they did, and that they had me come back to refit them. I think we technologically lag as far as the type and quality of the hearing aid in the civilian sector. I think we date ourselves once again as the VA with the products offered. The ordering system is extremely antiquated. There’s nothing about the ordering system that I like. 

**Why do you prefer this method of ordering (over automated call, mail, or online)?**<br>
No, I think I just like to inflict pain on myself. I’ve started thinking about ordering through the mail because they send these papers you can put your model. I’m looking at one right now, you gotta put a stamp on it, it’s already addressed. It’s pretty simple. I have about 4-5 of these they’ve sent to me. The way I think about it: If I know I need hearing aids and I’m coming up 6 weeks before needing them. If i put this in the mail, my confidence is very know. I can’t trust where this thing is gonna go. If I call, my confidence is higher because I’m speaking to somebody and they’re actually putting in what I need and telling me it’s getting mailed out. If i can do this via the computer, I believe it would be done even faster. I believe we’ve moved past mailing, and because you’re talking generation’s of veterans maybe some people should select early on “would you prefer to do this on the website, mail it in, or call” People can choose, and part of the process during the fitting would be to log on the website and show how to do it, and let’s move on and be done with it. They were very helpful fitting the hearing aids, describing everything to me. I have 1, 2, 3, 4 pages front and back of how to order hearing aids. 4 pages on this. About the batteries, ordering batteries, more battery hints. Theres 4 pages to obtain repairs. This could all be easily placed on a website. This just came to me, while you’re in there they could have you sit down and log on and register you in the system. 

**You mentioned using the mail form. Why were you considering that?**<br>
Because of the wait on the phone. I’m not a patient person by nature. It’s not my forte. I didn’t make it through the Marines by being on the phone for 45 min. It would be very wasteful of my time. It’s not a good way to do things. It’s not customer-oriented when you do that. So I find it a bit offensive. Like I said, I have enough things going on where I can be on the computer doing other things when I’m on the phone. They don’t even play good music. The whole call back idea could be good if people don’t want to do a website. That’d be simple. You’re just imaging a warehouse with 2 people getting endless phone calls. You can tell I like it, huh! 

*I can tell you the bar has been set very low, so you’ll be able to improve this.*

**How long has it taken to receive your orders, on average?**<br>
I would say 7-10 days a box shows up. it’s a small box, not a big deal. Seems to be pretty good. My confidence is pretty high that once you get through the phone system, the product will show up. It’s never been wrong. They got that right. 

**What do you think about the communications you receive after placing an order?**<br>
There is no communication. Theres no text that says your hearing aid batteries are on the way. Theres no email that says the order has been shipped. This is nothing like what you and I are accustomed to in 2019. It’s a dark hole that it goes into and you just hope the person you’re speaking to executed the order. I know where you’re going with my Vanguard finances. I receive a text that they’re working on it. Shipped your request. You make a phone call and hope they show up. 

**What kind of communication?**<br>
I like the text, email is fine as well. I am fairly mobile so with my debit card if I overdraw I get a text. Everybody else has really embraced technology and I applaud what you are all working on, but I think there’s enough good models out there that could be embraced to bring this forward. 

**Have you ever encountered any problems with ordering? (shipping, communication, wrong item(s), quantities)**<br>
No, once you get through with the phone call the package shows up. It would be good if there was maybe a note in there that says, “Based on your usage you may want to order your batteries in March 2020”. Something that would give you an idea rather than me taking them on the counter, counting the batteries, and projecting when I could do that. I think it provides fraud waste and abuse. I’m in the small amount of people who are doing that. I think there’s people out there who go to the VA, they hand them a box, then someone shows up and there’s boxes at their house. We’re not gonna solve the federal deficit under my idea, but it would help if we were smart tax payers. 
    
**How would you go about solving any issues with your order?**<br>
I guess I’d get back on the phone. THat’d be the only thing I’d know to do. I quit eBenefits and I don’t understand why this is so multilayered for hearing aid batteries. It does not seem required to me, so I quit. I can go to DPass and check on my pay, when I go to eBenefits they don’t recognize me. You have to stare on the screen and really try to find where this was. 

**Have you ever needed to return an order?**<br>
No

**How would you expect to initiate the return?**<br>
I don’t know. I guess you’d have to make that phone call and they’d have to send me a shipping label and something to send the order back. They haven’t gotten it wrong. I guess if I were over at the VA I’d drop off whatever they gave me and they could redistribute it. 

**Have you tried the other ordering options (mail, phone, online)?**<br>
When I did the automated on the phone, that would only let you get the batteries. It wouldn’t let you get the wax guards or the domes. If you gotta stay on the phone anyway, they’re gonna make you stay on the phone to get the other items. If they had an automated system that asked if you also need the wax guard then I would do that. But that’s not what they do. 

**What would concern you the most when ordering batteries online?**<br>
No [concerns], I’d be happy to do it. I’ve done all my Christmas shopping online in the past 3 days. 

**If we were to build a way for you to order online that suits your needs, how would you expect to find out about it?**<br>
I would expect I would get an email, “as a battery user we have created a website. here’s a link to it” then i go and create a password and it will auto populate by the VA or by myself and it would be simple to log on an order every 1 months, 3 months, 6 months, whatever it may be. You should also be able to do it on the phone 

**Where would you go to order hearing aid batteries through the VA online?**<br>
I guess based on what they’ve sent me, I’d try to go on this eBenefits website. I’d be happy to try that. I didn’t find it very helpful. 

**If you had to search for a way to order them online, what search terms would you use?**<br>
I would put in, “VA hearing aid battery replacement” 

**Is there anything else that you would like to share with us?**<br>
The only thing is, again, as I was looking at this eBenefits. It says, “For security purposes, you must first apply for a premium account from the eBenefits website” Right there is your problem. Why do I need a level 2 account to get hearing aids and prosthetic socks? I worked in the Pentagon and it was easier to get some classified information than it was to get on this website. Shouldn’t you just be able to type in “VA hearing aid battery replacement”, put in a password, and it be able to reorder. It’s not hard. 

**Have you ever logged into VA.gov?**<br>
I think I did, and I did not like the website so I avoid it to be honest with you. 

**Do you recall what you didn’t like?**<br>
The last time I did one of these surveys, which I appreciate, we went through this process with urgent care. The steps for me, if I had the flu, I would type in urgent care it would show me top 5 places. If I tried to go through the VA’s website, forget about it, I’d be dead. The VA website is woefully inefficient. They’re probably trying to do too many things on one site. If you had multiple entry points to check on pay, go here, for benefits, go here. You kinda have to really stare at that website and work around what you’re looking for. Clearly they’re not in the sales business. They could learn a lot from Amazon and Apple. 

**Have you ever logged into a site called My HealtheVet?**<br> 
No. 

**Do you have questions for me?**<br>
What I would make an observation, you have to understand that for the average customer which is what I am, because I am retired military I can use Tricare. I choose not to use the VA because it’s so difficult. The only thing I use the VA for is my hearing aids, fortunately that’s the only thing I’ve need to use the VA for. People will choose to go to other places. They’re so far behind, but there’s so many ways to improve it for future veterans for sure. 
