# Veteran with Hearing Aid Interview

_SB-P1, Monday December 9, 2019 at 11:30am ET_

**Can I record my screen and audio as we talk today?**<br>
Okay

**Can you tell me a little about yourself? (If stuck, ask about service, location, occupation, etc.)**<br>
Retired. [Age] years old. [percentage] disabled from the VA. I have agent orange. I’m retired as a [job title]. Served [amount of years] in Marine Corps including Vietnam.

**Tell me about your experience with technology.**<br>
I use a laptop and I’m not as efficient as some people are I’m sure. I think I’m a little more advanced than others. 

**Do you regularly use a computer? Mobile device?**<br>
I use a flip phone. I don’t go for all that other stuff. Takes too long for me to try to put things together in order to take pictures and all that stuff *laugh*. All I use are text messages and phone calls. 

**Do you use any assistive technology? Bluetooth hearing aids, readers, switches, etc.?**<br>
Not to my knowledge.

**Do you have any challenges using computers or mobile devices? If so, what are they?**<br>
**Are there certain types of interactions that are particularly challenging?**<br>
I have an electric wheelchair. A manual wheelchair. Two walkers. I have a scooter from the VA. 

**Can you tell me a little about your hearing aids?**<br>
The biggest problem I have is, at first they worked perfectly. Right ear is [percentage] deaf, left ear is [percentage] deaf. Sounds from right side were being transferred to left side. As the batteries died, I would install new batteries and over time, maybe several weeks, every time I would put new batteries in they would last an hour and then die again. They were supposed to last a week. It was annoying, I’d put them down and function without them for a while.

 **How often do you use them?**<br>
Oh, maybe 12-14 months. 

**Relatively recently you stopped?**<br>
About 6-7 months ago. They gave me an address in Colorado, not sure, to reorder new batteries. So I reordered new batteries, they arrived in short timeframe. I installed them, same thing. After an hour, hour and a half maybe, they would stop working. 

**Can you tell me a little bit about your prosthesis?**<br>
Well, right now I have a brace on my right ankle because within the Xray and the MRI they found a hole in one of my bones which something is pressing on one of the nerves which is creating a lot of pain across one of the legs. They gave me two injections in the ankle and strapped me up with the brace. It works pretty well, not sure if it’s the brace or the injections. I don’t have as much pain as I did before. Sometimes I have shooting pain, but nothing like before. 

**Do you have any fully prosthetic limbs?**<br>
No, I do not. 

**Do you use prosthetic socks?**<br>
Diabetic socks and shoes.

**Have you ever ordered prosthetic socks through the VA?**<br>
Yes, they indicated to me that I’m permitted to have 6 pairs of socks once a year. So, they initially had given me 12 and the gal asked me if I needed more socks and I said, “Yeah i could always need more socks”. They want them to be hand washed, not machine washed. Hand washing and letting them drip dry you can’t get the fuzzies off them. They look like they’re getting older, so I explained it to the gal, and they gave me 6 more socks. So they ended up giving me 18 pairs of socks. 

**Who are you speaking to?**<br>
VA directly. In prosthetics 

**Aside from ordering through VA provider, have you ordered the socks online through Denver like you do with the batteries?**<br>
No, they just told me to come down. You don’t need an appointment, you take a number, you need socks and they say, “here”. There’s no reason for me to contact Denver.

**How did you originally learn about about the medical supplies benefit?**<br> 
From the hearing department at the VA hospital. They were the ones who initially set me up with that. I’ve considered recontacting them to see if they have a different battery, they may have these hearing aids that you take them out and you put them in a charger every night. If they have something like that, that may be more efficient for someone like myself instead of putting new batteries in every hour. So we’ll see what happens with that, but I haven’t contacted them yet. 
 
**Did you ever have any doubts about how this benefit worked?**<br>
No, they gave me clear instructions. I contacted them through the VA website and maybe a week the batteries came in the mail. 

**How would you describe this benefit to other Veterans?**<br>
Right now I am very pleased with [location] health centers in [location]. It’s not the hospital, it’s people. The people are a totally different animal down here in [location]. They go out of their way at any given time. They order it right up through the computer system. If it’s prosthetic then they go down to the prosthetic department. Same with medication. I take an opioid and there are certain requirements where I have to do certain procedures to acquire it but other than that I have no problems at all. 

**What do you think about the benefit?**
I’m actually okay with all that. I’m not permitted to drive anymore cuz of my legs, so to me it’s a benefit for them to mail that information to me. Also, with eyeglasses the September before that they did an eye exam and they do a thorough exam where they take pictures in the back of your eyes and everything. She says she’s gonna set me up with two glasses cuz I have trouble seeing with the computer. They sent me two different types of glasses. That was on a Monday. Friday of that week I received that in the mail. I thought that was awesome actually. I wasn’t expecting them for several weeks. They both work beautiful and I don’t have problems with either one of them. 

**In what ways could this benefit better meet your needs for prosthetic socks or hearing aid batteries?**<br>
I didn’t have any problem with that. 

**How do you place orders for batteries?**<br>
Like I said, I believe it was through the VA website. There was a link - it’s been a while, but I think I found the information through the VA website and was able to place an order through that website to Colorado. I put my personal information and requested the batteries and put the code number for the hearing aids. They sent the exact ones, but they didn’t work either. They work for an hour, hour and a half and that was it. It was very simple, very easy process of inputting my information and submitting directly to them. I think it was it about a week I received it in the mail. 

**You went through this process once?**<br>
Yup

**Was there anything else you needed?**<br>
Nope, just batteries. 

**How long did it take?**<br>
Maybe 5 minutes 

**Can you think of a way where that experience fell short?**<br>
No, I was very comfortable with it. 

**What ways do you think the experience was good?**<br>
Very easy, comfortable way to acquire a product as a Veteran. You know, lost my hearing cuz of the bombings. To receive the hearing aids first of all, with batteries that worked at the time was quite an experience. I was very comfortable with it besides the batteries didn’t work that well. That’s why I’m looking at getting back down there to the VA one of these days. See if they can’t hook me up. Push them into this unit, you know, ear buds, take them out and put them in a charger. Like I said, I don’t know if the VA has it but as I understand it you take it out and put it in the little charger. 

**Why did you choose to order online versus mail or phone?**<br>
I’m not really a phone person. I prefer to use the internet as much as I can. It was very convenient for me to do that. 

**Did you have an eBenefits account prior?**<br>
I believe I did, yes 

**Do you use eBenefits for anything else?**<br> 
There used to be a lot of information on there that I would look up to learn more about the VA system, to learn more about how the VA is working with a lot of this information. Requiring this, being able to get that. Things of that nature. Which has become more beneficial than the system they have here which I think everyone has throughout the country. HealtheVet. I acquire a lot more information off there. I can just go ahead and order medication through there. 

**How often do you use My HealtheVet?**<br>
At a least, maybe 3 times a week. 

**I know you said you went to your VHA provider for diabetic socks, do you feel like you have to be able to order them in a different way?**<br>
I’m satisfied with the way I’m able to get them. It’s just a matter of getting down there. If I have another medical appointment that day I’ll complete that appointment and since I have my electric wheelchair I’ll drive myself over to the prosthetic department. I’ll check in on the kiosk, they’ll give me a number, and I’ll wait. I’ll go in and say I need socks, or recently I needed… it’s a picker upper, a grabber. For example if I drop my cane on the ground I can use that to pick it up and not fall out of the chair. They’re very pleasant to work with. One day I needed a new red dog tag that says “diabetic” on it with a medical emergency description it. I showed them and said I’d like a new one and I was able to get that. Everything gets logged in my name on my files cuz they know what I have. I’m very pleased with everything down there. Procedures in which to acquire things. 

**How long has it taken to receive your orders, on average?**<br>
Approximately a week, I’d say

**Did you think that was reasonable?**<br>
Oh yeah, I think I had mentioned before that I thought it would probably take 2-3 weeks before I’d receive something like that with the batteries. Even the grabber, they didn’t have one they wanted to give me so they mailed it to me. Same with the eyeglasses and the batteries, medications, they mail it right to me. I’m very comfortable with that. 

**What do you think about the communications you receive after placing an order?**<br>
I don’t recall receiving any kind of information, even in an email. I may have, but I don’t recall. 

**Would you have expected to?**<br>
I don’t think I expected to receive anything. If something were to come through on my email I would have responded. I don’t recall whether anything came in or not. Any communications. 

**Have you ever encountered any problems with your order?**<br>
Not with the order itself, but with the batteries. I stopped the ones that the VA had initially given me. I started up with the new batteries. About an hour and a half they work, next thing I know they’re kicking out on me. All of a sudden the ear became deaf again. 

**How would you go about solving any issues with your order?**<br>
I probably would have contacted them and advised them that this was not the proper battery. Hash it out with them as far as giving the proper numbers with the batteries and request they send me the new batteries. If they wanted me to send back the batteries I would have done that. I never received any information from them as far as I can recall. 

**How would you expect to initiate a return?**<br>
I would probably call the RMP or something of that nature, where they send me something in the email that would have all the information on there in order to return. Print it out, cut it off, put it on the package to send back to them at their expense. 

**If we were to build a way for you to order online that suits your needs, how would you expect to find out about it?**<br>
Either social media or email, possibly a phone call, something of that nature where communication is coming directly to me. Phone, for example, is to my phone. Emails would come directly to me. 

**Where would you go to order prosthetic socks through the VA online?**<br>
I would stop down at the prosthetics department. I would use the kiosk which identifies me, I’d get a number, and just wait for them to call the number. For batteries, at this point in time I’m not interested in trying to order batteries again. I do want to make an appointment to go down and speak to them to see if they have a new style battery or charger. I should be able to get it because I’m [disability percentage]. 

**You wouldn’t consider another hearing aid with batteries?**<br>
Unlikely

**If you had to search for a way to order them online, what search terms would you use?**<br>
Would probably go over to the VA site. VA.gov and search again for information on where to acquire the email or physical address I could contact them. I don’t see myself doing that at this point in time. 

**How long of a commute to your nearest VA medical center?**<br>
It’s a good half hour ride. Since I don’t drive anymore, the VA has a system where they send a van, a VA van or a contractor called OWL and they come at a prescribed time, pick me up, bring me down to the hospital, I go to the appointment 

**How often do you do that?**<br>
Once a week, sometimes two, three days a week. Minimum once a week. 

**How do you schedule it?**<br>
If I’m home, I call them down there at the VA. However, if it’s after 4pm and they’re gone already for the day then I’ll call the company itself, OWL, they know me and know my name. They’ll verify the information. They’ll schedule a ride for someone to come pick me up at the prescribed time. That includes a Saturday. If a doctor needs me to come in for an X-ray on a Saturday, they’ll come and pick me up on a Saturday as well. 

**Where on social media would you expect to find about new ordering system?**<br>
I don’t believe I’m in any specific group. I was in a pain group at the time, but I realized doctors had things under control as far as specific medication which I take every day. They said to take the medications and hopefully works out for you. 

**Have you been asked to reset your password?**<br>
No. 

(Last part of conversation removed per PHI regulations)
