# Veteran with Hearing Aid Interview

_B-P5, Monday December 9, 2019 at 1:30pm ET_

**Can I record my screen and audio as we talk today?**<br>
Yes

**Can you tell me a little about yourself? (If stuck, ask about service, location, occupation, etc.)**<br>
My name is [pii], 34 years old, live in New Jersey. I had hearing loss registered in 2011. Been using hearing aids since then.

**Tell me about your experience with technology.**<br>
I’m up to date with pretty much everything. New iPhones, iPads. Pretty well diverse in what applications I can use on a computer. 

**Do you have any challenges using computers or mobile devices? If so, what are they?**<br>
No, not typically
       
**Can you tell me a little bit about your hearing aids?**<br>
Uhm, I forget what brand they are right now. I use them pretty much every day, and I guess that’s it. 
 
 **How often do you use them?**<br>
I do pop them in and sometimes I feel like they get a little uncomfortable and I have tinnitus pretty badly. The normal pitch that my ears always ringing at I feel like I get two different ones with the hearing aids, so I take them out at that point.

**What are some of the biggest challenges that you face with your hearing aids?**<br>
Uhm, I wear a short haircut so they’re fairly visible when they’re in, which I guess is vain but it does bother me to some extent. At [age] I never thought I’d be wearing hearing aids for the past 10 years. I know that they’ve come a long way with the waterproofing, but it sucks to have to take them in and out every time I think they might get wet or something. 

**Have you ever ordered hearing aid batteries through the VA?**<br>
I did for a long time, and it was not fun *laughs* and I have decent insurance on the outside so I’ve been going through them for the last few years.

**How did you originally learn about about the medical supplies benefit?**<br>
Uhm, secondhand. It wasn’t actually told me when I was given the hearing aids from the VA. When I was back a year or two later in audiology there was another veteran sitting in there talking about it and I had no idea at the time. I found out at the time you had to write in refills to Denver or something about that. 

**What did you do after that?**<br>
I had to find the proper form, which wasn’t necessarily easy. Filled that out, send it in, then there was a bit of back and forth with the Denver office. Something was missing, it just seemed to take too long. after a couple experiences like that I decided to keep going through my private insurance 

**How did you find the form?**<br>
Yeah, I guess google with whatever keyword searches “VA hearing aid batteries” and from what I can remember it was some kind of FF form. It was a general piece of VA paperwork I had to fill out. 

**Do you remember what was missing?**<br>
I wanna say it was something with the model number, but it was quite a few years ago at that point. 

**What do you think about the benefit?**<br>
If it would work the way it should, it would be a huge benefit. That would be a no cost to myself cuz I’m rated for it, which would be a nice benefit. Havin’ the private insurance and I pay $5-15 it was worth it to not deal with the headaches. 

**When you say it would be nice, what does working look like for you?**<br>
If it were automatic resupply. It’s pretty general how long the battery should last. If the VA should just send me so many batteries up front and get me through the year. 

**In what ways could this benefit better meet your needs for hearing aid batteries or accessories?**<br>
Uhm, no I mean, I do get prescriptions as well from the mail order side of VA. It would just kinda roll through that, if I could do it with my prescription refills. 

**How do you refill your prescriptions?**<br>
Through My HealtheVet

**Can you describe how you order batteries by mail?**<br>
Uhm, it went back and forth with something missing. Plus dealing with things in between with how long the mail takes to get there. One time I ran out of batteries and had to run to CVS to get new batteries because the VA hadn’t sent the new ones yet. To me, it didn’t seem like worth the hassle anymore to deal with them. 
 
**How do you get the required form?**<br>
Found it on Google
        
**What does your typical order look like?**<br>
I can’t remember what I was getting at the time or how many they were sending. They were just the batteries. My hearing aids itself and when I would go into the VA they could do any of the physical aspects of the hearing aid, the plugs and things like that, they would replace them at the VA location. 

**How often do you find yourself placing orders?**<br>
Uhm, monthly I think it was. Maybe quarterly. I feel like it was more often than I should have. With my insurance I get a 6 month supply every shot. 

**How do you recall the details of the item(s) you order?**<br>
Writing down the make and model of the hearing aid I have and the battery number. 

**How long does the ordering process take you, on average?**<br>
When I finally found the form, it was just maybe 5 minutes of printing it, filling it out, putting a stamp on it, mailing it out. Initially to find the proper form I needed seemed to take a little while. 

**In what ways do you feel the experience falls short?**<br>
The fact that the resupply wasn’t automatic. The lapse in time in between when I didn’t have enough batteries. That really didn’t change so I don’t see why they couldn’t at the time keep sending them out as needed. But if that had worked then I probably would still be doing it again. 

**In what ways do you feel the experience is good?**<br>
Really, it wasn’t. And then I walked away from it. 

**Do you recall other ordering methods?**<br>
I don’t recall being told any way of ordering. It wasn’t until a year or two later until I overheard a conversation that the VA would supply the batteries 

**If you had the option, which method would you prefer?**<br>
Online. 

**Why do you prefer this method of ordering (over phone or online)?**<br>
No, I think online would be the best method for me. If it could show up under My HealtheVet that would be the best scenario 

**What would that experience look like in My HealtheVet?**<br>
The same as my prescription. I understand it wouldn’t be under prescriptions. But if I could click to get under the prosthetic stuff. But if there was a button to refill for the month, and that would be it. 

**How long did it it take to receive order?**<br>
 3-4 days
    
**What do you think about the communications you receive after placing an order?**<br>
I don’t remember any communication. Typically it would be a phone call and they’d send another form to fill out. 3-4 days to get the mail to me. 3-4 days to get it back. Then they would have to finally fill the prescription. 12-15 could go by. 

**Ideally, what kind of communications would you like to receive?**<br>
Uhm, my best format is digital. Just do it through email. That seems to be the best way that I conduct business. 

**Have you ever encountered any problems with ordering? (shipping, communication, wrong item(s), quantities)**<br>
I don’t remember what the quantity I was getting at the time, but I know I was disappointed with it. I was having to refill it more than I needed to. I once had hearing aids for three years, the battery doesn’t change, I don’t know why I kept having to fill out the same form to get the same batteries. 

**How would you go about solving any issues with your order?**<br>
My point of contact would probably be email or secure messaging through My HealtheVet if that were a possibility. 

**How would you expect to initiate a return?**<br>
I would imagine that they would email me some type of return packing slip that I could drop off at my convenience to the post office. Whatever need be. 

**What would concern you the most when ordering batteries online?**<br>
No [concerns]

**If we were to build a way for you to order online that suits your needs, how would you expect to find out about it?**<br>
Through VA newsletters. I get those to my email, I think weekly they come in. 

**Where would you go to order hearing aid batteries through the VA online?**<br>
Through va.gov or through My HealtheVet would be my guess. 

**If you had to search for a way to order them online, what search terms would you use?**<br>
“Veterans affairs hearing aid batteries refills or reorders” 

**Is there anything else that you would like to share with us?**<br>
Is that a service that is available?

**There is a service available for ordering the batteries online. It’s through a tool called eBenefits.**<br> 
That wouldn’t be my thought for getting refills. 

**Yeah, I mean have you had issues using ebenefits in the past?**<br>
No, but I have no change in my status on anything for 10 years so I don’t really have a reason to log onto eBenefits. 

**What would you expect that service to look like on eBenefits?**<br>
I don’t know. I think currently my hearing prescriptions and everything is privately so I’d have to find a way to upload my information through eBenefits and get it approved to get my batteries sent again. 

**If you were already set up, what would you expect to see in the actual reordering portion of the process?**<br>
Uhm, I would hope it would be just a couple clicks. I can’t even think of what heading it would fall under on the eBenefits website. But to just be able to click on that and that information would be there. C-18 or whatever batteries, click on that and get another shipment sent out. 

**Have you ever logged into va.gov?**<br> 
Yes
