# Veteran with Prosthetic Socks Interview

_S-P2, Monday December 10, 2019 at 9:30am ET_

Note: **Moderator** is in bold

**Can I record my screen and audio as we speak today?**<br>
Correct

**Can you tell me a little about yourself? (If stuck, ask about service, location, occupation, etc.)**<br>
Uh, I’m [percentage] disabled with the VA. Served in the Army. I’m [age]. 

**Tell me about your experience with technology.**<br>
I’ve got a little bit of background in technology. I went to school for computers. I’m up to date with technology.

**Do you regularly use a computer? Mobile device?**<br>
Yes, yes. 

**Do you use any assistive technology? Bluetooth hearing aids, readers, switches, etc.?**<br>
No ma’am. 

**Do you have any challenges using computers or mobile devices? If so, what are they?**<br>
I have trouble seeing cuz I don’t have any glasses, been waiting to get my glasses. I got trouble seeing. I got diabetes. 

**What do you do when you encounter these interactions?**<br>
I get a pair of reading glasses and use that or magnifying glass so I can see. 

**Can you tell me a little bit about your prosthesis?**<br>
I get prosthetic socks. That’s what I get. Uhm, so I like them cuz they’re comfortable with my feet and stuff. 

**What are some of the biggest challenges that you face with your prosthesis?**<br>
I have to have special shoes, I can’t wear normal shoes cuz of the way my feet are. So, the diabetics use they help a lot. They’re more comfortable for me to walk in. 

**What kind of socks do you own?**<br>
They’re cotton, wool, at least they’re cotton. They’re good for my diabetes and stuff. They’re sturdy socks and they don’t tear like normal socks would. 

**Do you layer socks?**<br>
I wear the sock all the time
 
**Do you have to change or adjust them?**<br>
Yes, I have to push them up cuz they sag down. They stretch a lot

**Do you have to adjust more times than others?**<br>
Yes, when I’m walking a lot I have to adjust them 
 
**Do you have all the same type?**<br>
I use all the same type. When I get them, I get all the same. 

**Have you ever ordered prosthetic socks through the VA?**<br>
Yes, I order them through the VA. 

**How did you originally learn about about the medical supplies benefit?**<br>
The doctor, pediatrist, told me about it. I’m diabetic that I could get prosthetic socks and shoes and stuff. I didn't know at the time.

**Did you ever have any doubts about how this benefit worked?**<br>
Somewhat. I mean I didn’t really know how it worked until I learned, until someone told me about it. 

**How would you describe this benefit to other Veterans?**<br>
I would describe it as, uh, very useful and helpful. And it’s good to know that we have that. For our resources. 

**What do you think about the benefit?**<br>
I think it’s a great benefit because it helps me with my needs and I think it would help with every other veteran.

**In what ways could this benefit better meet your needs for prosthetic socks?**<br>
Uhm, probably like learn more about it. The benefit of it. 

**How do you place orders for socks?**<br>
I go in every 6 months and I put my order in. Get them replaced every 6 months. I go to see the doctor to renew my script or whatever you wanna call it so I can get new stuff. 

**Did you know that veterans are able to order prosthetic socks outside of their healthcare provider?**<br>
No, I didn’t know that. 

**How would you expect that process to work?**<br>
Probably expect it to work very easy. Wouldn’t have to run around I guess.

**You just go to your healthcare provider and they refill your prescription while you’re there?**<br>
I have to get them sent to me. They don’t have them right there.

**If it were available that you could order these socks online, what would you think about that benefit?**<br>
I think that would be great, that way you’d know what you were gonna get. 

**How do you recall the details of the items you need to order?**<br>
Honestly, I don’t remember. On that aspect, I don’t. 

**Ideally, if you weren’t able to make it to the VA hospital all the time or you simply didn’t want to go anymore, how would you imagine ordering these socks outside of that environment?**<br>
It would probably be a pain in the ass, I guess. 

**In what way?**<br>
Uhm, cuz then I’d probably have to start all over again I would say. I’m so used to doing it that way, I mean. I don’t know if I’d change or not.

**If there were another way for you to get these socks, how would you expect to learn about that benefit?**<br>
I’d like to learn something about that if they put it out online. Billboards, or something. Social media.

**What sort of social media?**<br>
Like, Facebook, Twitter.

**Do you regular follow VA matters?**<br>
Yes ma’am, I use a link too.

**In your ideal world, how would you like to order prosthetic socks going forward?**<br>
Online, that way I know I’m getting them and all that. I feel like that would be more proficient. 

**What sort of options would you expect to have?**<br>
The color, brand, texture I guess. Basically. 

**What do you think about ordering through the mail or phone?**<br>
I mean, phone you don’t get to see what your product is. Mail, I mean, I like to see stuff. Thats my thing when I’m ordering something

**Would you have any concerns about ordering socks online?**<br>
No. 

**If you were to right now, where would you go to order prosthetic socks online for the VA?**<br>
I guess I’d go to prosthetics on the website. And see what they have there.

**Which website?**<br>
VA.gov website for prosthetics I guess

**Which search terms?**<br>
“Prosthetic socks through the VA”. THat’s what I’d put. 

**Have you ever used My HealtheVet?**<br>
Yes

**How often?**<br>
About every day. I check my appointments and stuff 

**What about VA.gov?**<br>
I’ve logged into that 

**Do you have any trouble doing that?**<br>
No

**What about a site called eBenefits?**<br>
Yes

**How often to you log into that?**<br>
Not too often, once a month

**Do you have any issues logging in?**<br>
Forgetting my passwords and stuff

**What does that experience look like?**<br>
Pain in the ass. You cant do it on the phone, gotta get on a computer to do that. 

**Out of those three options, where would you expect to find online ordering for your socks?**<br>
I would say My HealtheVet or VA.gov. VA.gov takes you right to My HealtheVet

**In what way?**<br>
You don’t have to remember your password. You log into that and it connects you automatically cuz I have the premium

**So you log into VA.gov and you automatically log into My HealtheVet?**<br>
Yes

**Reciting password can be a pain?**<br>
Yes, if I forget it, on eBenefits you can’t get on a phone you gotta get on a computer. To reset the password. Cuz of the SSN. They don’t put the social in the right order. That’s the problem I’ve had with it, so I’ve had to do it on a computer. 

**Do you have anything else to share?**<br>
No ma’am 

**Do you have any questions?**<br>
No ma’am, sure don’t. 
