# Veteran with Hearing Aid Interview

_SB-P2, Monday December 10, 2019 at 10:30am ET_

**Can I record my screen and audio as we talk today?**<br>
Yes I am

**Can you tell me a little about yourself? (If stuck, ask about service, location, occupation, etc.)**<br>
Okay, don’t actually know what you want to know, but I’m [age], be [age] in [month]. I’m heading out on Thursday morning to [State] to visit my stepdaughter and granddaughter and celebrate an early Christmas. What else do you want to know? I’m married! 

**Where are you from, what was your service?**<br>
I was born in [state], and I was originally raised in [State] in a little town called [town] which is halfway between [state] and the city. And, uhm, then spent a big chunk of my life being raised in [state] where I initially ended up in the service. After finishing my service I returned to [state], finished my degree, went on to work [job location] in [city]. Became a [job description]. And that was about 900 some odd, 925 beds, all in [city] and was [job description] in [state]. Which I had the pleasure of going and visiting at least once or twice. [Talking more about job details]. I got a year severance, so who gets a year severance. [Talking about job]. I ended up in [state] where I was [job description] there. My now wife there, left for better country and moved to [state] three years after moving to [state]. Became [job description]. Stayed there for about three years. [Job description] Been retired for the past ten years. 

**Tell me about your experience with technology.**<br>
I have a masters degree in healthcare administration. I am the key person that made determinations on what kind of laboratory technology we purchased, or leased, placed in our various laboratories I managed. I am conversant with computers. I would say, reasonable conversant. And I don’t know what else I can say!

**Do you regularly use a computer? Mobile device?**<br>
I do, I’m talking to you on it. [mobile device]

**Do you use any assistive technology? Bluetooth hearing aids, readers, switches, etc.?**<br>
Not for any healthcare issues. I can’t think of… well, I don’t know if I can it technology. I use a crutch because I have balance issues. 

**Do you have any challenges using computers or mobile devices? If so, what are they?**<br>
No, I don’t. I usually dig myself into a hole and dig myself out. 
        
**Can you tell me a little about your hearing aids?**<br>
I was diagnosed with hearing loss by the VA some years ago. I couldn’t tell you how many, seems like forever. Probably 8-9 years ago. The VA started providing me with hearing aids. They provided me with batteries, an initial supply of batteries. I was able to figure out I was able to order batteries through the VA supply directly through email. So, periodically when I’m getting low, and the VA sends me two boxes of batteries when I order, and each box contains about, I’d have to go back and look at them to make sure, but I think they contain about 10 containers of 8 batteries each. I could be wrong about that, but that seems, in fact I should have… one of these in my pocket… because right now I’m not wearing my batteries. No, 6 batteries each! Each container contains 6 batters. P312 batteries. If that helps. I wear them in both ears, when I’m wearing them. I’m being a bad boy right now. 
 
**How often do you use them?**<br>
I use them, well, I use them when I go out of the house cuz obviously in the house we’re in pretty close quarters so my wife and I are the only ones here so that’s… but in the evenings starting about 3:30 - 4 o’clock we start watching the news and I put hearing aids in then. Watching tv, I have the hearing aids in, and I increase the volume by two levels even though I’m sitting within 8-10 ft of the television set. I have to crank it up about two levels to see what’s being said. I have them too loud for my wife but that’s just the way it goes. When we go out depending on what we’re going out for, if I were to go out to my [name] meeting I would want to put them in because I sit in the audience instead of being up there with the president. It’s hard to hear the noise in the restaurant. We meet in the restaurant. If we go out to eat, my wife and myself, usually I won’t wear them because the noise level in the restaurant is so loud that they’ll overwhelm the hearing aids. 

**When did you get that set?**<br>
The last set, uhm, I would guess it was about 3 years ago. I went to the hearing aid department in the clinic and the hearing aid person, audiologist I assume, told me my hearing aids were outdated and she would get me new hearing aids. She re-examined me and redid the hearing test itself if I remember right. She sat down and fitted me out and ordered new hearing aids. I met with her again a couple weeks later seems like, she fitted them and off we went. About 3 years ago. 

**What are some of the biggest challenges that you face with your hearing aids?**<br>
Remembering to put them in *laugh*. Actually, they are not a big problem. I mean, I’m sure there are advances in hearing aids that the VA lags behind, but they’ve not been such that they cause me any issues.

**Can you tell me a little bit about your prosthesis?**<br>
I don’t have any prosthesis. They issued me diabetic socks is what they classify it as. Over the years they were soft and no compression through them at all and they were comfortable to wear. Starting two years ago, a year or two years ago, the socks they issued for diabetic socks turned out to be compression socks. And so we actually got what they classify a mild compression for our legs wearing these same soft socks when they weren’t the same soft socks as before. Now I get 14 pairs of diabetic socks that are compression socks issued once a year. 

**How are they issued?**<br>
The first time around I had to go to the prosthetic department. Years passed, I would have to do the same. I’d tell my primary care, they’d put an order in, I’d have to go to prosthetics and they ask the same questions: what size sock? what size shoe? then they’d show up in the mail. This last time I told my primary care and they communicated through the VA directly and sent them to me without having to be involved at all. 

**You order batteries through the VA?**<br>
I do, I order them directly. I don’t have to ask anybody. I order them direct myself. It’s through.. let’s see if I can find that email… of course I can’t… try it again… okay.. well it’s not coming up readily. 

**Is it through Denver Logistics Center?**<br>
Yup, that’s it! I do that direct. When I look like I’m gonna run down somewhat on the batteries, I just order them. You have to supply them with the battery number, or the hearing aid number that’s assigned by the VA so they know that they’re a legitimate order.

**How did you find out about the supply for batteries?**<br>
I don’t remember! I probably talked to one of the audiologists and they told me that information

**How long have you been ordering them?**<br>
Oh, years now. And I pieced together information myself because there’s other pieces and components like the rubber thing that fits in your ear. You can order those as well through the Denver supply area. I was never issued any extra one of those. I figured out how to order them, they sent the wrong size of course, and they sent the right size and I’ve been fine ever since. 

**Did you have any doubts about how the benefit worked?**<br>
Probably, but I don’t remember it

**How would you describe this benefit to other Veterans?**<br>
I think it’s an excellent benefit. If they would make it clear, I don’t know if they do or not. If they make it clear to the veteran that here’s the steps you gotta go through to get hearing aid batteries then I think it’s an excellent benefit. 

**Make the benefit better?**<br>
The way we’re going is fine. For other veterans, assuming they provide them the information necessary to find the supplies they need to maintain the hearing aids they have without having to go through a beaurocratic maze, then that’s the methodology I would recommend 

**What kind of maze?**<br>
Having to contact somebody first, then finding the address. When you go request them and you have to find where the catalogue is for your particular hearing aids so you can order the right thing. There’s a lot of potential steps involved that I solved on my own that they shouldn’t have to go through. 

**How do you place orders for batteries?**<br>
I just send an email. That presumes that I do that within a timeframe that’s allowed by the VA for resupply. I don’t know what that timeframe is, but I’ve never encountered an impediment to this date

**You get a couple boxes of 6. How long does that last you?**<br>
A long, long time. Fortunately the batteries do not expire before I need to order them again so that’s not been a problem. They give you batteries that last a long time so you don’t have to worry about expired batteries. The two batteries of 6, 10 packages of 6 each, we’re assuming that, I record how long it takes for those batteries to wear out. Within 7-10 days. Cuz I don’t wear them 100% of the time so I don’t wear them out. 7-10 days times 30 batteries, cuz there’s two. Would be, what? 30 times 10 is 300 days. About a year’s worth. You almost get about a year and a half’s worth of batteries. Other people would have different usage. 

**Do you order early?**<br>
I probably order when I’m down to a box. That usually means I have 3 boxes sitting here until I go through that third box. 

**What does your typical order look like?**<br>
Uhm, it’s two, two hearing aid numbers and a request for the specific batteries with the order number for those batteries. If I also needed the rubber, i don’t know what they call that thing, the dome, and there’s also the insert that goes inside that protects the speaker, or the hearing portion from gathering hearing wax, ear wax. It’s a little white thing. You can order those, too. And, so I also order those as well as domes when I do order those other pieces. I’ll order them with the batteries. 

**Do you order them a lot?**<br>
No, they send you like 2-3 packages. They send 2 packages of the domes, there’s like 10 domes in each package, it’s a huge number. They send you maybe 3 packages of whatever those little white things are. They send you about, let’s see, there’s about 10 in each package. They send about 30 of those if I remember correctly

**How long does that lasts you?**<br>
The wax deal is like 1 every 2 or 3 months that you realize your hearing aid is all plugged up. You pull out the dome and see oh yeah there’s wax in that thing. So you dig out your box and you take out the old one and put in the new one and you’re off to the races again. Theres nowhere near the frequency of replacing batteries, I should say

**The 3 years since you’ve had that set of hearing aids, have you had to reorder those wax guards and domes?**<br>
I think I did once. 

**What does the response back look like (email)?**<br>
I believe that they acknowledge that they received the email, and the stuff I ordered will be coming soon.

**When you’re writing up that email, how long does that ordering process take you?**<br>
Like, all I do is find the previous email which I cant find right now for some reason. I find the previously sent email, and just copy what I need out of that email and paste it into a new email and off we go. Denver Logistics, something like that isn’t it? I’m trying to pull it up on my computer and it’s not coming up, so. 

**In what ways do you feel like that experience might fall short for you?**<br>
Other than me not finding the email *laughs* that’s one way. But that’s about it, really. If I was smart I’d save a hard copy of it but I don’t 

**In what ways do you feel the overall experience is good?**<br>
Other than the initial experience of trying to figure all this stuff out, it’s good. 

**How did you go about figuring that all out?**<br>
Who knows, now! It took me a while. That was the piece that was missing when I got my hearing aids. I had the information such as the numbers you had to provide, somewhere. I don’t know if it came with the hearing aid or something like that. Then you gotta track down what is your dome, what is the ear wax thing you gotta get. All that stuff you have to come up with a number. I had to find the Denver Logistics catalogue all of the pieces. I couldn’t figure out which parts from that hearing aid. Get those numbers, then order them. The first time I ordered the domes I got the wrong ones, they looked like the right ones but they weren’t. That’s the piece I would be thinking of. If the audiologist who issued these would give them a card about what to do. You send an email to whatever logistics and you order your dome, here’s your dome number, here’s your wax number, here’s your battery number so all you have to do is send an email 

**Why do you think you prefer ordering email other than mail, online, or over the phone?**<br>
Well, I think number one you’re talking to a logistics department now when you’re ordering. Trying to do that over a phone talking with someone who’s not familiar with you or the product your ordering because they’re responsible for hundreds of products would make it difficult. Online I don’t think they offer that option online, at least that I’ve ever seen. Email seems to be the easiest way to do it. Thats just the way I fell into it and that just seems to work 

**How long has it taken to receive your orders once you’ve placed them?**<br>
That would be a pure guess on my part, but I’d guess a week to 10 days.

**Is that sufficient?**<br>
I do because I’ll have a box left and order ahead cuz I don’t want to run out. So, like I said I usually have a box of batteries left when I order. SO, that’s a huge amount of time before I’ll run out of batteries 

**So your indicator is just to watch your stash go down?**<br>
Exactly. Be careful when you write that in a report. I don’t want anyone thinking I have a stash. 

**Once you’ve sent off that email, what do you think about communications received?**<br>
Like I said, all I get is an acknowledgement that they’re received the order. I would imagine that if I ordered too soon they wouldn’t be able to fulfill it at this time. Then they just show up in my mail. 

**Have you encountered problems with your orders?**<br>
Me not knowing the correct order number. That’s me, not the people on the other end supplying it

**How did you deal with that problem?**<br>
Not much you can do, they don’t want it back. You just look it up and order again. It’s kind of wasteful for the Denver logistics area to send out stuff that’s never gonna be used, but I can imagine they don’t want them back cuz I’m gonna have to scrounge around to get postage, or they’re worried its been opened and contaminated. That would be my issues if I was them. 

**Did you assume they didn’t want the return, or did you ask?**<br>
I didn’t ask 

**If it was available, ordering online, would you consider ordering?**<br>
Oh yeah, it wouldn’t be a problem. I’m sure there’s veterans using the computers and being online is a problem. If you frequent veteran site that track veterans, like I was attached to the CB so there’s a CB fb group. You’ll occasionally see posts from a veteran that they rarely get on these things cuz they don’t use a computer much. That means they aren’t sophisticated about a computer. Or they don’t ever use a computer and their wife, or spouse, or other person uses it. Their spouses communicate for them so they’re not directly communicating. So then there’s all these people between you and your communication path so things risk getting confused 

**Do you have any concerns ordering online?**<br>
No 

**How would you expect to find out about online ordering?**<br>
I would hope they would manage to communicate to everybody they issue hearing aids to. 

**In what form would that take?**<br>
Probably mail. Cuz you can’t know, if you’re the VA how do you know who’s conversant with getting email or etc.? I guess they may have a record cuz they may do some communication that way. 

**If you were to now, where would you first go to order hearing aid batteries through the VA online?**<br>
Assuming the VA provided a pathway, hey go to “hearing aids on VA” and we’ll give you information, then I would go to the VA’s website and find that particular page. Otherwise, I would expect the VA to tell me that hey, go to this address to order this stuff online. Save me a step. 

**Do you just want the link?**<br>
You go there, and do your thing

**What search terms would you Google?**<br>
*Laughs* Now you’re challenging me. You know as well as I do you can put any search terms into Google and get any answer you’ve seen in your life. Obviously I would do “VA Veterans VA Hearing Aids Batteries blah blah blah blah blah” and I’m gonna get that kind of answer back and maybe I’ll get the right answer in there somewhere 

**Have you ever logged into VA.gov?**<br>
Yes

**How often?**<br>
I’m trying to think. Why would I log into VA.gov? I would log in to order medications. Isn’t that VA.gov?

**I think that’s My HealtheVet?**<br>
That’s what I log into! To me, that’s VA. Why would I log into VA.gov? I don’t know, just a minute. Okay… oh that’s uhm, you can check on a claim, view your payment history, it also says you can refill and track your prescriptions. So VA.gov is all of that stuff? I mean, so I was right it is prescriptions, checking on a lot of other things, it’s also looking at your medical history at VA too. My HealtheVet is one way, or you can go direct to VA.gov. 

**Which one do you use?**<br>
I use My HealtheVet most of the time. I have a DS Logon but I’m sure by now it’s expired and I’ll have to start it up again

**Have you struggled with that in the past?**<br>
Struggled, no? They just require renewal at a frequent place. It’s just a few times I’ve had to log on using DS Logon. I’m sure it’s expired now. 

**Have you ever used eBenefits?**<br>
Yes, that also uses a DS Logon if I remember right. 

**How often do you use eBenefits?**<br>
Very rarely, and again that was for… oh… uhm, probably back in the days when I was looking for what they were gonna grant for my disability compensation. I think that’s in eBenefits. The other thing is the hearing aid batteries and prosthetic socks are on there. You can order them that way too. I forgot about that. 

**You knew about it?**<br>
I knew about it, but I forgot about it because I had the easier way of just asking, i don’t remember prosthetic socks being on there, but hearing aid batteries were on there. It didn’t include diabetic socks, that’s right. 

**You’d forgotten you can order batteries, do you recall why it’s easier for you to use mail over the online ordering system?**<br>
Like I said, if I have an email I just copy and send. But, I actually cant tell you today because I cant find the email. I know I emailed the last one I did but I cant find the email. I cant tell you today why I prefer this way vs the other ways other than they work the same way. One requires me to log on a website while the other one just requires me to send an email. If you’re using DS Logon and it expires then you gotta spend more time when you’re doing something like that infrequent. Just copy the last one. I’m lazy! That’s what it boils down to. 

**You have experience with VA.gov, My HealtheVet and eBenefits and you do know that there is a current way to order those batteries through eBenefits - (interrupted)**<br>
I think that way existed 10 years ago too. For the batteries. I think it existed 10 years ago that way too. That’s just a vague memory of mine. Anyway you said...

**We’re looking to improve this process for veterans, so what would your expectation be now for finding this online system that would be easier for you?**<br>
If you’re gonna do online ordering, well, jeez, it’s hard to say. I personally would rather Denver Logistics Center had it and they have my history and just log in to there and pick what I want to order from what I’ve always ordered. I suppose VA could do the same thing, but VA has huge amounts of information buried in all their various websites that you wonder how long it would take for every Veteran to do that. I guess what I’m saying is, electronic ordering is fine, I don’t understand the complications behind it for veterans 

**is there anything else you’d like to share with us about this topic or any questions?**<br>
I don’t have any questions and I already shared with you the key for going forward: getting the right information to the veterans up front so they don’t have to dig for it 
