# Veteran with Hearing Aid Interview

_B-P6, Tuesday December 10, 2019 at 3:00pm ET_

**Can I record my screen and audio as we talk today?**<br>
I served in 1967 to 1977 army Vietnam, Germany, Israel, and other places. After leaving service I worked buying battle tanks. Anything that can be rolled, or crawled, was bought by the US Army Tank command which is where I worked [missed this bit]

**Can you tell me a little about yourself? (If stuck, ask about service, location, occupation, etc.)**<br>
[will repopulate at a later time]

**Tell me about your experience with technology.**<br>
Not a single contract was issued by DCOM that dealer with APP or DIS that the official would sign without my approval [missed this bit]. From a crate computer to a laptop

**Do you regularly use a computer? Mobile device?**<br>
Oh yeah, every day. Laptops, tablets, GPS, anything I can get to make my work easier and get the job done better

**Do you have any challenges using computers or mobile devices? If so, what are they?**<br>
Not that cannot be overcome. If it doesn’t work, I just buy something that does!

**Can you tell me a little bit about your hearing aids?**<br>
I was rated for hearing disability in [date], I was denied hearing aids until about 2012 because for various reasons they changed the policies. I’ve had three sets of hearing aids and I just got a new set I don’t even know what the brand name is. If you want the brand name I can get it. They just changed it from the floppy inserts, if you know what a hearing aid is it’s got a little cone on it, to form-fitting inserts. The foam cup kept coming off and sticking to my ear. 

**How often do you use them?**<br>
Daily

**All day?**<br>
Let’s put it this way, I’m in full compliance by demand and by choice. My hearing’s such a way that when we had kids and they would cry for bottle or whatever it was, I couldn’t hear it. I knew there was a noise but I couldn’t identify it. My wife makes me wear hearing aids so I know what’s going on. 

We’re on the phone I have the connection for the hearing aid to the phone but I’m not using it today because the link isn’t working right now. It also takes the same device that goes in the cradle that connects to the TV for the same purpose

**What are some of the biggest challenges that you face with your hearing aids?**<br>
Getting used to form-fitting function in the ear, and that’s about it because I presume you know quite a bit about the military and dog tags in particular. I had a medical profile that I did not wear dog tags in the military. I do not wear a watch, I do not wear rings, I do not wear jewelry whatsoever. It bugs the hell out of me. My wife thinks I’m crazy; on our wedding day she put a ring on my finger and we spent hours getting it cut off cuz it turned my finger to the size of a hot dog. 

**Have you ever ordered hearing aid batteries through the VA?**<br>
Yup, multiple ways multiple times. 

**You sound like you have a very new set**<br>
About three years old.

**Are they replaceable?**<br>
Yes. They use what I call floppy inserts but they are colloquial or form-fitting ones were done within a month or two. But I’ve had them for about three years, two or three years. I can bring up the document I have on my computer when I was given them. 

**How did you originally learn about about the medical supplies benefit?**<br>
That was explained to me when I was given the hearing aids, in detail. Where to buy the batteries from, repair components, basically I was told there’s three things: if the system’s not broken we fix it, if you need anything from batteries do it this way, if you need batteries do it this way. The sizes I need, everything else. 

**Did you ever have any doubts about how this benefit worked?**<br>
Nope, because I would make it work. *laughs*

**How would you describe this benefit to other Veterans?**<br>
You order them, you get them, you order more when you need them. That’s simple. Go on the computer, go on eBenefits, and now I understand there’s another procedure to do it. You click hearing aid batteries and they come up cuz when you log in there’s a profile page that says what size it is, you get a 6 month supply and then I have it on my calendar to order more. Normally it’s just a prompt for me, but when I’m down to the last packet of batteries, they come in packets of 6 or 8, I open that one and okay, time to order batteries! 

**You mark your calendar**<br>
6 months out. If I don’t need then, 3-4 packs of batteries, I wait. I do the same thing with all my drugs. One of the things I forgot to mention about experience: my job in the military was regimental supply. If we didn’t do our job, they couldn’t do theirs. If they didn’t get ammo, it was my fault. If they couldn’t get rations, it was my fault. I made sure they had more than what they needed. 

**What do you think about the benefit?**<br>
Works! But I am also of the opinion that my negligence in my ordering does not require them to expedite their delivery 

**That’s coming from your background?**<br>
Oh yeah, I have a sign that says I’m trying to clean it up. Your forgetfulness does not mean I need to expedite! 

**In what ways could this benefit better meet your needs for hearing aid batteries or accessories?**<br>
Not that I know of, the accessories are not electronically done on eBenefits but I have an email address and I send them an email and they come just as if I ordered the other way. When I need them I pull the email out of my back pocket, my email pocket, and send it. Arrives in 3-5 days. 

**How do you place orders for hearing aid batteries?**<br>
I do them electronically

**[If eBenefits] Can you describe how you order batteries in eBenefits?**<br>
I sign on to eBenefits. It’s eBenefits or Vets.gov is in transition. Go down to ordering hearing aids. Comes up with some questions I answer them. Yes, order batteries. I go back to sleep. 

**Do you have issues logging in?**<br>
Any time you log into a computer there’s times the system won’t be available. Thats why I don’t wait until the last minute, I allot extra time. It’s part of my mindset, I don’t know how many people are aware of it, there are two internets. Each packet of information going across the internet has a priority code. It does something based on the priority code. Anything with a priority code less than 100 is from the government and it takes priority over codes of greater than 100. That’s why I have trouble with the system. No system is infallible. 

**What does your typical order look like?**<br>
I don’t even remember. I follow the directions. I cant remember what the directions are. It says, “Do you need batteries” I’m hypothesizing, Yes or No. Confirm this size and something like that. It’s been probably 4 months since I’ve seen it. 

**How do you know which size you need?**<br>
It comes up and says the size and that I get based off my profile that’s what I want. I don’t know if I can change it, never tried. 

**How often do you find yourself placing orders?**<br>
About 6 months.

**How long does the ordering process take you, on average?**<br>
Maybe 3 minutes. Assuming I can log in and click it. 3-5 minutes. Depends on if I have to go to the bathroom in between. 

**In what ways do you feel the experience falls short?**<br>
I order, I get, I’m done! Mission accomplished 

**In what ways do you feel the experience is good?**<br>
It’s second nature. It’s neither good nor bad. It does the job. 

**Why do you prefer this method of ordering (over phone or mail)?**<br>
Just habit. I took my hearing aid to be repaired, didn’t talk to the technician once. We just texted back and forth, got it done. No telephone tags, no back and forth, no bs. He gets to it and gets it done. 

**Can you describe email format?**<br>
I don’t know how I got the email address, its’ in my system somewhere. I send them a request, they send an email back that they have me logged in for this size, wax filter or whatever it is, these are accessories the doctor wants you to get. And uh, here’s the order numbers and basically the stock numbers and go from there. That simple! 

**How often do you find yourself doing that?**<br>
Once a year, if that. I have a file box full of stuff I need to go through before I reorder 

**Do they send a set amount?**<br>
I say I need these. Whatever they send me has been adequate so I’ve never needed to change it. 

**Are you aware of other ways to order?**<br>
There’s a note that comes with every box that you can use this number or mail this card in or there’s other ways. I do it electronic and I’m done with it. When I order batteries on eBenefits, when the order is ready to be clicked on for ordering I do a screenshot and that goes into my file that says I did it. Then I have to go through my files every so often and get rid of stuff. 

**How long has it taken to receive your orders, on average?**<br>
3-5 days 

**Do you feel that’s sufficient?**<br>
Once they leave the government’s hands and goes into the postal hands, government has no control over it. Snowstorms, floods, airplane crashes, all hazards of shipping out of Arkansas or wherever, when I need that information I can find it but I don’t try to cloud my mind with the stuff I don’t need to know every day. I have trouble remembering my wife’s name after 43 years. 

**What do you think about the communications you receive after placing an order?**<br>
I’ve never gotten anything. That I can recall. I may have gotten an email that they’ve. got their order and are shipping it, but I don’t remember seeing that 

**You don’t remember a confirmation?**<br>
I get so many, I could have gotten one and thought oh good, one less thing I can worry about!

**Ideally, what kind of communications would you like to receive?**<br>
I don’t care about communication as long as I get the product. Whatever is necessary to get the hearing aid batteries from Denver to my hands. I don’t care as long as I get it. I’d go on horseback to get it, I don’t want to, but I’d do it. 

**Have you ever encountered any problems with ordering? (shipping, communication, wrong item(s), quantities)**<br>
Not that’s happened to me

**How would you go about solving any issues with your order?**<br>
I believe, and I get it, there’s information in the envelope for reordering that says, “If there’s a problem contact this number” and there may be an email address there. The order is supposed to be 16 sets of batteries and I only get 6 then I would contact them. If it’s indicated in the order that it’s short and they’ll send the rest later then I wouldn’t. There’s exception standards in place and I’ve been told by the audiologist that if we have any trouble with supply or batteries contact her technician or their office and which I do through My HealtheVet if I need to and I do, not for ordering but other issues, and they take care of it. 

**Why do you prefer online?**<br>
Because of a simple reason: I can see what I’m doing. I don’t have to worry about mistaking size A for size B. I haven’t even looked to see if it comes with pre-paid postage on the order form. I would hope it wouldn’t because that would cost the government money. We have a beautiful internet system that works for me and works for people, why are we paying for postage? The Veteran or the VA? As far as phone calls when I try to connect to this conference all, the line that you guys called me on which is the 421 number is a VOIP and the VOIP doesn’t work with this conferencing system. So I grabbed my cell phone and used my cell phone, big deal!

**If we were to build a way for you to order online that suits your needs, how would you expect to find out about it**<br>
Hopefully, I wouldn’t! Because the system works for me. But I would presume it would come out in periodic bulletins that come out in VA.gov and eBenefits. I don’t know why the batteries on eBenefits and the drugs are on My HealtheVet, never been able to figure that out. But I get email notices all the time about changes. I have a big one coming up this coming February. I don’t know how they’re going to do it but they have a big job. Do you know CBOC?

**No**<br>
We have hospitals. Each hospital has an outpatient clinic away from the hospital. Like, I live 150 miles away. Our CBOC has been x sq ft and now it’s moving to x sq ft. There’s gonna be notices, probably nationwide, because it looks like it’s gonna be the largest one in the country up here. Right now I gotta drive about 60 miles for the audiology. Which is new because when I first got my hearing aids that was about 80 miles. 

**Gotta make a weekend of it**<br>
What I used to do is if I had to go to the VA hospital and could swing it, we would stop by and visit our daughter and stop by on the way back. 

**Where would you go to order hearing aid batteries through the VA online?**<br>
I believe there is a link in My HealtheVet I hit where I can go on eBenefits. Or VA.gov. I’ll probably get there in about February cuz I’m down about 4 cards. They made a mistake once: They double shipped me. Instead of getting 10 packs, I got 20. 

**If you had to search for a way to order them online, what search terms would you use? “Ordering hearing aid batteries from the VA?**<br>
I heard you reference a few times My HealtheVet. How often do you use that system? Oh god, in a week it’s probably 6-7 times. In a week. Well, first off I’m diabetic. A lot of my drugs, all my drugs, come through the VA. So, sometimes I have to check to see if the order took and what the status of it is because they also have in My HealtheVet a tracking system so I can tell if the package shipped and where it’s located. I have something going on right now because some of my diabetic insulin comes in a insulated pouch and we may not be home to pick it up, so we’ll see. If we aren’t there, I’ll tell them to put it on hold until I come back. 

**What would ideal situation look like?** <br>
I don’t understand why the batteries, hearing stuff, and my CPAP supplies can’t be on My HealtheVet. My HealtheVet is only drugs, pharmacy-type items. I don’t know why My HealtheVet isn’t running batteries, CPAP, battery supplies, and recurring. but maybe because they’re only ever 6 months or every 3 months, I don’t know. I just work with the system they hand me. I’m tired of fixing the system I’ve used for 22 years 

**Have you logged into VA.gov?**<br>
I logged into VA.gov and they asked me how to log in and took over to My HealtheVet and it brings me back to VA.gov. Then they send me a text with a code number for security services and I’m in

**Have you experienced trouble with that?**<br>
It hiccups sometimes, but nothing is life-critical with that. 

**Is there anything else that you would like to share with us?**<br>
I think getting batteries are as simple as getting food from the store. The hearing aids have already been decided, the one I want. 
