# Veteran with Prosthetic Socks Interview

_S-P3, Wednesday December 11, 2019 at 9:30 am ET_

**Can I record my audio as we talk today?**<br>
Correct

**Can you tell me a little about yourself? (If stuck, ask about service, location, occupation, etc.)**<br>
Well, lets see. Uhm, I flew helicopters in Vietnam for US Army. Got out of that, went to college, got a non-flying job that put me in the consulting world and did that till’ for about 10 and a half years and started my own consulting firm and ran that up until 2-3 years ago and now I’m just sort of picky on the projects I take so I’m semi-retired even though I’m officially retired. Thats about it

**Tell me about your experience with technology.**<br>
Well, part of my consulting business was to help clients in all kinds of different industries computerize their maintenance function whether it’s a little mom and pop bakery through nuclear power plants I would take work orders, employee files, purchasing, so on and go from the 1980s and get everybody comperterized. I was prior to PC’s and cell phones. The market was right to do that. I would help them design software for that or test software they went out and shopped for. And or train their people how to use it. So, I’ve had my fingers in technology but for you guys it’s old technology. Now everything is done, the same kind of work, you can pull up your work orders like when UPS orders stuff you can see it on tablets and all that stuff gets updated electronically nowadays. It has come to full maturity as far as staying on top of current technology. It’s like any software, changes every 6 months
    
**Do you regularly use a computer? Mobile device?**<br>
Yup, I kinda gotten to the point where I try to go off grid but it’s really just minimizing the hardware. So, I do a lot of stuff on the cell phone and still maintain a laptop just cuz of the projects I do have. I need to do some typing, data entry, testing, etc. It can't all be done on tablets and cell phones. Still need workspaces that require an amount of typing. I’m not a gamer or anything like that, but I enjoy the internet and stuff like that, social media. I do so much on the computer that I just don’t do much gaming, what you guys envision as gaming, cuz I still fly, I do on actual simulators. I use a flying simulator.

**What type of interactions?**<br>
All the social media, emails, Facebook, I don’t really… I’ll do banking. But if I have to do any large amount of input be Word or Excel I do all that on a laptop. 

**Do you use any assistive technology?**<br>
No, well I have readers glasses I use from time to time. It’s just for up close stuff. But, no hearing aids none of  that stuff.

**Do you have any challenges using computers or mobile devices?**<br>
Uh, well, I guess more, I’m not as comfortable on security systems of software as I used to be. When the software, before the term app was even invented, I didn’t have any problem with Norton and other types of security systems I worked with my customers. Now it seem the security is so wrapped, it’s not an application you can learn because so much is embedded in operating systems nowadays. I’m less comfortable with the security stuff, I used to program and now we have programs that program. It’s a little further down the technology train than I prefer to pursue because I’m less familiar with it and less comfortable with it. If something blew up on my computer I could go back in and save stuff and get it resolved. I’m not the troubleshooting guy that’s capable of going deep into the software. Generally, no, Now, unfortunately or fortunately not sure which you get frustrated with an application when it’s not plug and play. So many things are so quick and easy on the cell phone and some of the software that comes across the laptop but so many things are plug and play that you assume the next thing you experience is plug and play. When that doesn’t happen it’s frustrating.

**Can you tell me a little bit about your prosthesis?**<br>
Well, the only thing I use is the socks. I’m still in really good health, so I don’t have a need for anything other than the socks. It helps with the circulation when I’m on my feet all day long flying and air shows 

**What kind of socks do you own?**<br>
They’re the compression socks that you may or may not be used to seeing your great grandpa wearing or something like that. I don’t wear them when I’m wearing shorts. I wear them when I have my flight suit on. It seems to help the circulation and I use insoles in the boots to help a little support there. That combination seems to relieve me of anything with falling arches and tired legs and stuff like that. That’s about all I use. They go up above just below your knee. They try to get me to use the medium size but I almost always ask them for a large cuz I really don’t want it, the knee is not that heavy. I don’t need it to be restricting, it seems to work out well to use the large size. Theyre relatively easy to get on and off. They do the job, so I don’t think I need to be moved yet into a more constrictive set of socks. 
 
**(Moderator's mic cut out)**<br>
The prosthetics department at [location]. My doctor sent me six years ago now, I was complaining about pain in my feet. She sent me over to a foot specialist and she suggested the inserts and the socks. Now I get resupplied by the prosthetics department. I guess that’s where they store them, or whatever. 

**How often do you go back to get more?**<br>
Well, they tell me I can have 3-4 a year. I go in yearly or annually for my checkup. I usually pick up another two pair of socks when I go. 

**Have you acquired them in any way other than the VA hospital?**<br>
No, I haven’t looked for them anywhere

**Would you expect to be able to get those socks elsewhere?**<br>
I don’t know, because I haven’t done a Google search or anything like that. It’s never crossed my mind to look for them in a department store, so I don’t know what the availability would be. I don’t know how I would other than a general description, search for them other than say a general description. In your correspondence earlier you indicated what the name of it was. The symes?

**Right, symes socks are for partial foot amputations.**<br>
Oh, then I misunderstood. What would be handy is if I could, now that I understand what the function of those socks are. I can’t order these even though, I can’t just walk up to the prosthetics and tell them I want a pair of socks. I have to have the doctor send a script, whatever it takes, get approval to ask for them. Which is fine, when I’m there. Like, the VA website My Health Vet thing where you can reorder your prescriptions, it would be handy if that would be capable of being done there. But it’s not, apparently that’s not a drug so they don’t see it, it’s not on their radar scope. I don’t know that it has to be a drug to be a prescription refill. I have a CPC machine and get filters and stuff like that off the prescription refill option on their website, but I can’t get the socks. It’s not critical. If I went through more socks and wore them every day and wore through them like normal socks then yeah. It would be more of an interest of mine to order online. That’s not a capability under the current situations. 

**How do you order CPAP machines?**<br>
Theres only certain supplies you can order. You can’t, and I don’t know what the criteria is. The only thing I can order for the CPAP is the mask itself. If I want a replacement of one of those. Theres also a liner, a facial liner, if person has sensitive skin that reacts to the mask and they break out or something like that. You can get these cotton little liners and order those online. As far as I know, and I haven’t tried to order other parts, those are the only other two things I can order. THat’s like ordering your prescriptions. You just click on the item and they’re only gonna ship you out the next correct prescription a month so. With the mask you cant order three, you can only order one and you can only order one every three months or whatever the case is. For simplicity, cuz it’s got just about everything you should need. It’s got your dosage, a drug of some sort, it’s got dosage and how many pills there are and that should be good *can’t hear his audio* and there’s just one input. You can select it to be reordered and shipped or you can leave it alone and it won’t be reordered and shipped. 

**Can you tell me about the other items you would order that aren’t available?**<br>
Well, there’s like another filter that I’m kind of surprised they don’t have on there that’s an air filter. And what else, hoses, you cant order the hoses that connect the machine to their mask. Now, I should be cautious in saying that. I haven’t tried to order those, but they are not listed on my list of things that can be ordered. Know what I mean? I haven’t sent them an inquiry saying can I order a filter with the CPAP machine because that’s how the other two occurred. I sent them a message. Poof, it popped up on my list of prescriptions. and the liner - poof! It popped up. Once it’s established, it’s there. I don’t know that the other items can’t be there, they just aren’t there

**How do you get them?**<br>
I have to go to the sleep clinic every year, so they give me three hoses and a bag full of filters. So, it’s kind of a need driven listing. So, and like say the socks aren’t on there either, but I don’t know that I’ve asked them to. 

**Hypothetically, if we were to build a way for you to order your socks online, how would you expect to find out about it?**<br>
Next time I went to refill whatever prescription I got, if it were right on the list it would be obvious. It wouldn’t require an extra… you know, most people are gonna go if they have any medication at all under VA if they’re using the website they’ll go in there and reorder a month in advance so it never runs short. They don’t wait until they take their last pill. It could take 2 days or it could take 2 weeks. It depends on the shipping source. I would think that would be, something that’s for socks I would take a look at the expected wear the equipment is for the site and make sure it’s on there 30 days before they’re gonna need it. Once it’s on their list their capability of ordering is dictated by that expected type of wear. I shouldn’t be able to go in and order two dozen socks. You can order two extra pair every 45 days, or however you want to turn that into a prescription. That kinda dictates how often you can order how many. Just the same as dosage and how many pills come in a bottle, only now you’re talking about something physical instead of something you’re investing. 

**You see that this ordering process taking place over My HealtheVet?**<br>
Yeah, if you wanna shoot out a little PR email or text message for those, not all us old farts use phone or social media. Some people don’t even have computers. If you want to announce that somethings been put on someone’s reorder list you can multimedia there. you might have to snail mail some people, of course electronic ones you can do a lot faster and a lot more in a particular time. That would be more of an awareness thing letting people know that it’s on their Health Vet thing. But if they’ve never been on it, it doesn’t make sense if it’s on there or not. 

**Can I ask how often you use My HealtheVet?**<br>
Uhm, I would probably say once a month. It’s kind of driven by need, you know. I got a [discussing medical condition]. One a day and it’s a bottle of 90 pills. So, you know, when the pill bottle is rattling’ and it’s light I try to order one when there’s two or three weeks left in this bottle. That’s the trigger that sends me to the website. I mean I don’t go in there and cruise around. They’ve got a couple fo options there that say your health history, but it’s not exactly as it appears. When your history first came out, it would be history that I would have to type in. And I’m not gonna go back for 60 years and type in my appointments. I don’t even know when they were. And, you know I suppose some people use that. Now there’s an option for your health history data dump. It takes any records you have at the VA or you’ve reported and you can data dump into, I don’t know if it ends up coming out of Excel or Word, and I’ve tried a couple times to dump that and it gets stuck in a download process  that’s never ended. I’ve never been able to successfully do that. Especially people in my age bracket, I would expect some of the younger guys getting out of service if they have access to that website they would be frustrated too not being able to immediately bring up their health history. It seems like just the perfect opportunity or function to have available. But it’s not refined yet, it doesn’t happen quickly and I understand there’s hundreds of thousands of folks on that system. You know, it goes back to my old software days where you get people who market the software, but the software is only half baked. It gives the user and the producer a black eye. All the enthusiasm to get the software and deadlines, okay, but no sense shooting yourself in the foot. So, with all the pressure of producing software you get the front piece out and people actually try to use it and it’s kinda going backwards. It’s unfortunate, but it happens a lot in the software world. 

**Do you use VA.gov for anything?**<br>
Mostly for research. Research from the standpoint like when someone asked me a question, I’m active in DAV, VFW, American Legion all that stuff, if someone says I read this or I read that and it seems to be way out there on La La Land I go on there and that kind of stuff. I’m not on there every day, I’m not an avid explorer. It’s more of a research thing I’d guess you say

**Do you ever log in to the new authentication on that site?**<br>
I’m gonna say no, because it doesn’t pop up right on top of my brain here. 

**Are you familiar with DS Logon?**<br>
Hm, maybe not. I guess just the general VA.gov. Is there another authentication thing? This is really me, kind of thing?

**Have you ever used eBenefits?**<br>
Uhm, I’ve seen it, I must have signed up or somehow they have my email because I’ll see that pop up sometimes either from previous searches, I’m not absolutely certain I get an email from them. But that sounds familiar. 
