# Conversation Guide: Check-In (Veteran-Facing) Remote Discovery Research, P1

Start recording to the cloud.
- I have started recording. I'd like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record my screen and audio as we talk today?” Yes

Great. Now we're really ready to begin!

## Warm-up Questions/General Check-in Questions - (10 minutes)
To get started, I’d like to get a little background information about you.
- How many in-person appointments have you had since the beginning of the pandemic/COVID-19?  Let see, does that count for my hearing aids as well. I would say about 19. 

Now, I’m going to ask you to think about your very last medical appointment that you actually went to the VA facility for.
- How did you schedule your last in-person medical appointment? Did you go online, talk to someone in-person at the VA, call, etc.? They scheduled it for me. I got the phone call and they said they would contact me. 
  - Is that how you typically schedule in-person appointments? The last one only, it was within 5 days. In general it takes a few weeks or 5-10 days. 
  - Is it them normally calling you or do you start the scheduling: when I went to see the doctor they said they would call me and that’s what happened. They mostly call me. The only one I call is for my eyes, I had to go back for that. 
  - Has your method for scheduling changed since COVID began? No, it has been like that. I used to call and go to community care if they couldn’t get me in within 30 days. 
- How do you keep track of your upcoming appointments? Well they put them down and send me things or I go online. I got one today for my shipment of prescriptions or they’ll send updates for appointments. 
- Letter: an email. 
- How did you check-in for your appointment? Half the time the kiosks don’t work so you cant use it so they ask if I am checking in and I check in at the counter. They have the kiosks but they don’t work so I just go right to the person.
  - Overall, how would you describe that check-in experience? Was it a good or bad experience? Easy or hard?
    - What questions do they ask you? Name. they ask last 4, birthdate and name. 
    - What paperwork do you fill out? Maybe a questionnaire at times if I haven’t been there in a while like pain management. Normally I don’t. 
    - What do you like about checking in via VA staff member? What could be improved? I don’t have a problem; they know  am there and I get credit for it then I go and get travel pay. That was nice when they did it right there instead of online. They would take care of it and it was quicker, doing it online takes longer. Yes you need your ds login  and it takes longer to show in my account when they did it I would get in a week for two. Issue is with time. 
    - What about at the computer: it was okay, I don’t know why we need ds login if you have myhealthevet. I still got all of them so it doesn’t matter. 
    - What did you like about it?
    - What did you not like about it?
  - How has checking in for an appointment changed with COVID-19? Same thing besides the approval to do in and questions about covid.  I don’t check in at the main door. 
  - Lobby area or department: I haven’t before covid, they take your temperature  and ask where you are going. 
- Which check-in method do you use most often? This could be using the kiosk, talking directly with VA staff, using text messaging , or how your access virtual appointments
- Have you ever had a check-in experience go wrong at the VA? They told me I wasn’t scheduled but I show them I was and showed them the mail and I met with someone but not at the scheduled time. They wont turn me down because I had it on the sheet, why they cant see it in the system they couldn’t answer. 
- Print out email: I usually bring my card with me to verify it. 

## Virtual appointments (5 minutes)
- How many virtual appointments have you had since the beginning of the pandemic/COVID-19? Two I believe and I have one for the 15th. 
  - If they’ve had at least one…
    - How do you check in for a virtual appointment? Fine. Everything was on time. 
      - How do you interact with medical staff like nurses? Yes. 
      - Did you need to fill out anything ahead of time? Just asking me, nothing filled out. 
        - How far in advance of your appointment do you fill it out? The same day. Right before the appointment. When I came on to launch they needed to know I was there. It took a little bit of time like 5 minutes after I am on. They asked me questions as well. 
    - When it is time for your virtual appointment, can you tell me what that looks like? How do you “show up” for your appointment? Well I make the call, for some reason I couldn’t get on so I talked on the phone and it went that way. 
    - Every video: once, there was no problem there. It was okay, I had her on speaker so my wife could help because she’s my caregiver. In case I miss something she could catch it, they said they would send information out to me on what I wasn’t sure about. They had 3 types of procedures and they sent it to me. 
    - Link in an email or online: through an email. 
    - Is there anything else we should know about checking in to virtual appointment?  No, I got the app for the video stuff. It was listed in the app store, that was kind of confusing because there’s a lot of information. It was easier to get it from the email rather than going to the app store. Well the app itself, let me see if I have it here. Videos connect. That’s the one. I have all of the apps on my phone for the va so they are easier to get to
    - What was hard: you put into it and it asks for numbers and the doctor. Sometimes I don’t know the doctor so I go to the department and it comes up. I mainly get it form the email because it is easier. Like this zoom meeting. 


## Kiosk (25 minutes)
- If they didn’t mention a kiosk above, confirm that they have utilized these machines. Have you ever used one of the check-in kiosk machines at the VA? Only time it seems to work is for prescriptions and that only happens I get the same day and they wont send it through the mail. That’s the only time it worked; it doesn’t work for my appointment. It says take my form and fill it out. When I did use it, it would ask the questions and go through everything and it would say will not except so I had to go to the front to check in. 
 - I'm going to show you a series of tasks that can currently be completed on the kiosk. I'm interested in your feedback on them. I'm also interested in hearing how you complete these tasks. (Prototype: https://preview.uxpin.com/c466c519812f0c48fa2c4e0e25d0a9e703dce5b3#/pages/137806822?mode=cvhidm)
    - First, we'll pretend you are checking in for your appointment with your primary care provider.
      - [Click "Check In to Appointments" button]
      - You can use your card to verify who you are. [Click "I do not have my VHIC" button]
      - Or you can enter your Social Security Number and Date of birth. [Click "Continue" button- that’s how it normally starts, they ask who I ma and you confirm then all of the birthday and the appointment and doctor show up and check in that’s it. 
information as well, such as address, home phone and email. [Click "Edit" button next to Address]- yes but that was afterwards. I haven’t updated anything on there before it was all okay. 
      - Then, you are checked in.
      - If the Veteran never used the kiosk
        - What are your thoughts about this workflow?  I had never had information on where to go. 
        - Questions you had seen before that aren’t here: other than because able to do travel ebenfits, there was nothing like that on mine. That was pretty much it besides the travel. 
      - If the Veteran has experience with the kiosk
        - Does this look familiar? It wouldn’t work, you’d go through it and it would tell you to see person at counter. I do it for prescriptions but that was the only time. 
        - Do you go to multiple different VA locations? Yes, sometimes I do the same day.
          - If yes, does the check-in experience differ at each location? Like when I go to the specialty care you go and check in there aren’t kiosks. Like for x rays they tell me to go to blood work and you take a number. If I go for CAT scan I go to the desk and ask your name to see if it is in the system. 
    - Next, we'll look at checking in for a lab test.
      - on the ticket to have your test
      - Now, you are checked in for a lab test.
      - Have you ever had a lab test at the VA? I have never seen that they tell you to take a number and then they call the number and you get your blood take. I have ever seen that. 
        - what was the experience like? It’s no problem, you take the number and then follow procedure. 
        - What did you like about it?
        - What did you not like about it? if your doctor has ordered blood work or a test if it is in the computer. I do that then I give them my name and I’m here for blood work, if it isn’t there then they have to call the doctor. Hat has happened 3-4 times that they had to call the doctor and its taken care of. 
    - Now, we'll check in for pharmacy
      - Have you ever interacted with the Pharmacy at the VA? I have never seen that on the kiosk I checked in, you out in the card and it says okay take a seat and we will call you. It would be good if they follow it, do they use it at all of the VA’s? 
    - Now, we'll update your next of kin
      - Have you ever updated your Next of Kin at the VA? No because I have been with my wife for 50 years, nothing has changed.  I have not seen it that way. 
        - If yes, what was the experience like?
          - What did you like about it? that would be fine but I don’t know why that needs to be there everything. I know it can change so it might be good to have that so your information can be changed. I agree with that. 
    - Lastly, we'll file a Beneficiary Travel Mileage request
      - Have you ever filed for Beneficiary Travel Mileage? I have never seen that. They have the sheet so it take it and fill it out then turn it in. 
        - What did you like about it?
        - What did you not like about it?
        - If no, You can file for reimbursement for the miles that you drive to the VA when you have an appointment.
        - What are your thoughts on this workflow? Its pretty much the same but why do they need the addr4ess if it is already there. Then you just check your box and the last 30 days. On the sheets you can put more than 1 date, you can do 5. I don’t know if you can do it on the travel there. It has always been the sheet we use. 
        - Thoughts: I would rather od it that way but if that’s the case. Do you need a myhealthevet or a ds login, I don’t understand why you need it. 
        - What would you think of it: I don’t like it. if you already have myhealthevet then why I can’t I use that. I would want it hooked to my myHealtheVet login. 
        - [Researchers note: you can stop screensharing now.]
  - If the Veteran answered yes, they have used the kiosk...
    - Have you used the kiosk for anything else that I haven’t asked you about yet? Nothing else. I can say the prescription doesn’t even have a kiosk. 
    - What would you would like to change about the kiosks? When you get to it and enter for the appointment, does that automatically go to them. You should have an account of a time that you checked in, all you do is say yes and assume you are checked in. I have had a paper to check in but if that says I am there but if it shows that I am not here in their system. I would want to have it in my hand that it says I am here. How can you be sure it goes through. Even if I don’t have an appointment it should say that I am here for an appointment and they should ask why he’s not listed here. Most of the things here fi you are not seen in 15-30 minutes to let them know so I have don’t that as well so they let you know that you are scheduled but running behind. 

## (Could skip) In-person (5 minutes)
- If they didn’t mention in-person check-in above, Have you ever checked-in by just talking to a VA staff members?
  - If yes,
    - When do you use that method of checking in? Why? I let them know I am there to check in and I sit down and wait. 
    - Are you normally checking in at a centralized location or a specific clinic/doctor’s office?
    - What questions do they ask you? Name. they ask last 4, birthdate and name. 
    - What paperwork do you fill out? Maybe a questionnaire at times if I haven’t been there in a while like pain management. Normally I don’t. 
    - What do you like about checking in via VA staff member? What could be improved? I don’t have a problem; they know  am there and I get credit for it then I go and get travel pay. That was nice when they did it right there instead of online. They would take care of it and it was quicker, doing it online takes longer. Yes you need your ds login  and it takes longer to show in my account when they did it I would get in a week for two. Issue is with time. 
    - What about at the computer: it was okay, I don’t know why we need ds login if you have myhealthevet. I still got all of them so it doesn’t matter. 
    - What else should I know about your experience checking in by talking to staff members?

## (Could skip) Via text message (“I am here” system) (5 minutes)
- If they didn’t mention text message check-in above, Have you ever checked-in via text message (maybe from your car in the parking lot)? No, we never had that. That would be nice to check in from the phone so you can check in and let them know you are in the parking lot instead of putting someone ahead of you. 
  - If yes,
    - When do you choose that method of checking in? Why?
    - Can you describe how checking-in via text message works?
    - What did you like about that experience? What could be improved? Check in with the phone you don’t need to use the kiosk or go to them. As long as you can check in on the phone you use. 
    - To sign in to check in, ideal sign in process: they send an email for check in. you check in and then they should come back and tell you that you are checked ins so you know that they received it and are aware of it. 
    - Or notification that you can check in: if you are already going there then why not make sure you are listed for it. 

## Wrap-up questions (4 minutes)
- Do you receive any of your healthcare from outside the VA?
  - If yes...
    - What does the check-in process look like at the other facilities that you go to? How does it compare to the VA's check-in process?
- If you had a magic wand and you could check in for your appointment any way you would like, what would that experience look like? I suppose to just go up and let them know that you are there. I’s rather check in with them because the phone could be messed up. Even if I have went to the kiosk I go up and check in to make sure they got it. 
- Other insurance: BlueCross but they don’t pay that so I just go to the va. 
  - What about if you could do all the check-in tasks that you can from the kiosk, but on your cell phone?
  - How would you expect to sign-in, in order to verify who you are, so you can check-in on your cell phone on va.gov?
  - Other comments: offsite clinics like for sleep apnea and hearing aids; you just walk up and check in. that’s all. That’s fine by me, I don’t have an issue. They also don’t have travel pay there you need to go online so I wait to go to the va and put it on the paper instead of going to the main va. You need to use the digital one for those. 
  - Experience: no problem. When you have to do it on the internet it takes longer to be credited, doing the paperwork I would get it quicker because they must do it by hand. 

## Thank you and closing (2 minutes)
Well we really appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us and allowing us to learn more about the check-in process today. Your feedback is so helpful to us as we continue to work on improving the check-in experience.
Thank you so much again and enjoy the rest of your day!
