# Conversation Guide: Check-In (Veteran-Facing) Remote Discovery Research
Start recording to the cloud.
- I have started recording. I'd like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record my screen and audio as we talk today?” Yes. 
Great. Now we're really ready to begin!

##Warm-up Questions/General Check-in Questions - (10 minutes)
To get started, I’d like to get a little background information about you.
- How many in-person appointments have you had since the beginning of the pandemic/COVID-19? 1, well three if you count getting the shots. 
Now, I’m going to ask you to think about your very last medical appointment that you actually went to the VA facility for.
  - How did you schedule your last in-person medical appointment? Did you go online, talk to someone in-person at the VA, call, etc.? It was scheduled through the phone. They sent me a card telling me to schedule so it was on the phone.
  - Card in the mail: Yes
    - Is that how you typically schedule in-person appointments? It depends on how much time in between the appointments. This last time it was 6 months from the last one and the appointment was in December or November and they sent me a letter a month before. I have scheduled in person as well, talking to schedule it that way.
    - Anything online: only thing I have done online is to check if an appointment was made and checking when my next one is. 
  - How do you keep track of your upcoming appointments? I write them down, I have a calendar and when I get something to have an appointment, I write it down and the time so I know ahead of time. 
  - How did you check-in for your appointment? In person, the kiosks were not working. 
    - Overall, how would you describe that check-in experience? Was it a good or bad experience? Easy or hard? I would say it wasn’t user friendly because when I got there, I used clinic 3. There’s a place they want you to stand then they call you up. There were 6-7 people just talking and then I walked up and they told me to go back and stand in line. I was the only one there. I stood for 20 minutes before I could check in. I was not happy about it; it doesn’t do good to fill out the how are we doing. I think I throw them in the trash. 
    - Normal: not normally they get you there and get checked in. you may have to wait to see the doctor and that’s understandable sometimes. 
    - What happens normally: when one person goes up then they say next then give them the card and provide the information. Then they point you to the door you will be called to. 
      - What did you like about it?
      - What did you not like about it?
    - How has checking in for an appointment changed with COVID-19? We are doing telehealth or video connections. I had a video conference with the pharmacy going over diabetic meds and heart meds. You had to use a mask and practice social distancing. 
      - Did you have to complete a form before entering the facility? No. 
  - After you checked-in, how did you know where to go next? Where were you directed to go: they tell you and you sit by the door because they yells your name. I have been called spider and I recognize that. So when you are here it I knew it was me. 
  - Have you ever had a check-in experience go wrong at the VA? No, not really. Well if you call scheduling an appointment, I showed up and they told me I wasn’t schedule it was for next week. They gave me something then put me into something other than that. I looked at the print off and I was right. That gets frustrating, I know having taught that people make mistakes. It would be nice if they just acknowledged when they make a mistake. 

## Virtual appointments (5 minutes)
- How many virtual appointments have you had since the beginning of the pandemic/COVID-19? 3. 
  - If they’ve had at least one…
    - How do you check in for a virtual appointment? The check in was great because they called me. I had my phone and it was supposed to be at 2pm and I got a call at 11am. It was the doctor, they said I know I am early but I am open now if you’re free. It was enjoyable we spent an hour going over everything. 
      - How do you interact with medical staff like nurses? No, the one time was with he doctor. The other times were with the pharmacy. 
      - Did you need to fill out anything ahead of time? No, no one has asked me about consent forms or evaluation form. 
      - How did the pharmacy work: one the first one it was the phone. So she called me and we talked about the meds and blood sugar and filled prescriptions. The next time, two weeks ago, it was a video call that was done through my tablet. She saw me and I saw her. I asked why my refills changed and the doctor refilled all of it but didn’t refill my insulin, she got it refilled and extra refills again so I don’t need to call. I have a video call scheduled for May 4th. 
      - How do you get into the video: I am the one that went in online and typed it in and connected. They sent a link to click on. I went in a bit early and had to wait but when she came in I saw her. It was through an email. 
    - Is there anything else we should know about checking in to virtual appointment? No because they are easy to do. I just had to move to where she could see me because the lighting wasn’t good. Everything went well. 

## Kiosk (25 minutes)
- If they didn’t mention a kiosk above, confirm that they have utilized these machines. Have you ever used one of the check-in kiosk machines at the VA?
  - If no…
    - Have you ever seen them in a VA location?
      - If yes,
        - Why do you prefer other methods for check-in?
 -  If no or yes (so everyone)...
    - I'm going to show you a series of tasks that can currently be completed on the kiosk. I'm interested in your feedback on them. I'm also interested in hearing how you complete these tasks. (Prototype: https://preview.uxpin.com/c466c519812f0c48fa2c4e0e25d0a9e703dce5b3#/pages/137806822?mode=cvhidm)
      - First, we'll pretend you are checking in for your appointment with your primary care provider.
        - If the Veteran has experience with the kiosk
          - Does this look familiar? I have used the card and I have used my  SSN and DOB. I tend to use the card more often. When you put your card in, it brings the information up and ask next of kin. That information is already there but there’s times its not there and I have to go and do it again nd then its there. It disappears sometimes. 
          - Do you go to multiple different VA locations? No
          - Have you ever been asked additional questions compared to what I just showed you when checking-in via the kiosk?
            - Have you ever updated your contact information on the kiosk? No. I have seen it but everything is filled in. 
            - Update it at the va: just phone numbers.
            - How: On the screen where it says edit I would click that and put in my number
            - Thoughts: I love the kiosks. You can do it and your done and you can get a copy just in case I never get called. Likes confirmation.
            - Have they ever not called you: yes but it ahs been awhile. I was there for an hour and I went to the window and found out my doctor wasn’t there. The communication was crossed by the other doctor was supposed to see me but he had his own patients to see as well.
            - Insurance: yes I have. 
            - Thoughts: one thing is that if you try to check in 30 minutes before your appointment, it wont let you. A few times when I am there for my blood lab or get my breakfast, I might try to check in and it tells me only 30 minutes before. 
            - Any questions I didn’t show: no. 
      - Next, we'll look at checking in for a lab test.
        - Have you ever had a lab test at the VA? You check in and get a number and they call you up to the check in desk, give it to them and they print out what you will do. Then put it to your card and you sit then wait for your number to report to the lab. You could be at the lab at 7am, it could be 8am by the time it is taken depending on the people there. 
          - What did you like about it? you use to have to get a number, like this but it was a number caddy. Now they use the same number for check in and lab. 
          - All one number: yeah, the old way was faster. you checked in then went to get it drawn. Now you get a number check in and sit to be called with the number.
          - Waiting twice: yes. 
          - What did you not like about it? no. Lab people ayah I have a few suggestions there. 
      - Now, we'll check in for pharmacy
        - Have you ever interacted with the Pharmacy at the VA? Yes. Again you have to go to the kiosk again. I have seen those options. Right or you wait for you name to appear on the monitor board to be told it is pick up ready. 
        - Not always number: yes or number so and so come to window 6. 
          - What did you like about it? it keeps it orderly. You sue to have people cut into line or go p there and tell them that they gave me the wrong meds. Get in line and wait your turn. It reminded me of school with people cutting in line but there’s no one out there telling them to get inline. It was closer to the covid shots. People wouldn’t check in and just get in line. Or think they don’t need to check in. we were all there to get a shot, whys it matter where you all. 
          - What did you not like about it? No. 
      - Now, we'll update your next of kin
        - Have you ever updated your Next of Kin at the VA? Yes, I have seen it. Yes, I have updated it because at times the last name was misspelled or the number wrong. 
        - What are your thoughts on this workflow? I have no problems with it because my daughter is my next of kin and know her information by heart. 
        - Change about it: no. 
      - Lastly, we'll file a Beneficiary Travel Mileage request
        - Have you ever filed for Beneficiary Travel Mileage? No, they told me I don’t live far enough away. What I don’t understand is my next door neighbor would get it. we used to go on the same day if we both had an appointment. I don’t know if that is because he has a disability rating and I don’t. 
          - Thoughts: I think it is fine if it allows you to put in a missed appointment there’s no problem. I was eligible could I do it online. 
    - Have you used the kiosk for anything else that I haven’t asked you about yet? No. 
    - What would you would like to change about the kiosks? The speed of it, sometimes is it slow going form one screen to the next. 

## (Could skip) In-person (5 minutes)
- If they didn’t mention in-person check-in above, Have you ever checked-in by just talking to a VA staff members?
  - If yes,
    - When do you use that method of checking in? Why?: if the kiosk is down which it was last time I had an in house appointment. I had to stand in line and they have their stuff to maintain. Again it is standing in line to get served and there are a lot of people standing around talking and it’s like they are more important than us. If it were business related I wouldn’t be mad but its them playing and look out there and see us. Its like were second fiddles to them. 
    - Are you normally checking in at a centralized location or a specific clinic/doctor’s office?
    - What questions do they ask you?
    - What paperwork do you fill out?
    - What do you like about checking in via VA staff member? What could be improved?
    - What else should I know about your experience checking in by talking to staff members? What I would like is that they appreciate our service. They say they didn’t serve and don’t want to get killed but don’t have enough respect for our service. You have people in the stores thanking us and show respect but at the VA, no. a lot of people, I have never met a person I don’t like and they don’t like to acknowledge us. 

## (Could skip) Via text message (“I am here” system) (5 minutes)
- If they didn’t mention text message check-in above, Have you ever checked-in via text message (maybe from your car in the parking lot)? No. well I take that back, yes they send a text, if you confirm the appointment type the Y and a number. 
- Before appointment: ayah normally 2 days before. It would be nice because you can tell them you are there and can confirm you will be there. 
- Check in on the phone instead: I think that would be great. 

## Wrap-up questions (4 minutes)
- Do you receive any of your healthcare from outside the VA? No. The only time I have seen one was when I thought I was having a heart attack and had to go to the hospital. I try to get all healthcare from the va. 
- If you had a magic wand and you could check in for your appointment any way you would like, what would that experience look like? I would prefer to go through the kiosk and go sit down and called in for the check in with the nurse and see the doctor. 
  - What about if you could do all the check-in tasks that you can from the kiosk, but on your cell phone? I would but I haven’t had a cellphone long and it sometimes sits on the table at home. 
  - Still use kiosk: yes I would still prefer that. 
  - How would you expect to sign-in, in order to verify who you are, so you can check-in on your cell phone on va.gov? face or fingerprint recognition. I cant think of a way to verify someone other than security questions. Or follow up questions like credit cards. 
  - Describe why the kiosk: well, it is easier for me to use, just hit the button and you get a printout. Whereas on your phone you don’t. with a phone you could erase it or not get the text and they could say you aren’t checked in. with a kiosk you have the ticket and you can say I have this confirmation. 
  - Why not a person: because to me as a former teacher I like documentation it provides me whereas a phone doesn’t. you don’t need to talk to the staff if you have the confirmation. 
  - Comments: not unless you can tell them to stop joking and do their jobs like they were hired. 

## Thank you and closing (2 minutes)
Well we really appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us and allowing us to learn more about the check-in process today. Your feedback is so helpful to us as we continue to work on improving the check-in experience.
Thank you so much again and enjoy the rest of your day!
