# Conversation Guide: Check-In (Veteran-Facing) Remote Discovery Research, P12
Start recording to the cloud.
- I have started recording. I'd like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record my screen and audio as we talk today?”  Yes Ma’am
Great. Now we're really ready to begin!

## Warm-up Questions/General Check-in Questions - (10 minutes)
To get started, I’d like to get a little background information about you.
- How many in-person appointments have you had since the beginning of the pandemic/COVID-19? Two that I recall. Just two. 
Now, I’m going to ask you to think about your very last medical appointment that you actually went to the VA facility for.
  - How did you schedule your last in-person medical appointment? Did you go online, talk to someone in-person at the VA, call, etc.? I received postal cards in the mail to confirm my dates I was due there. The appointment was originally created at the facility in Littleton NH. 
  - Made it for you: yes they made the appointment for me while I was physically there. Then they followed up by postal cards and email. That way I was informed of the date, time , and place. That is usually how it has happened with my appointments. 
    - Has your method for scheduling changed since COVID began? No Ma’am. It has always been accurate and helpful and made things very easy. 
  - How do you keep track of your upcoming appointments? Telephone call reminders, 1 I believe. Mainly it is through emailing or through the postal services. 
  - Rely on notifications: yes. 
  - How did you check-in for your appointment? It is about 45 minutes to get there by car, sometimes if the vehicle is bad I plan accordingly. I was at the parking lot and met at the outside door and a representative that took information from me and then took it inside and probably 5 minutes later a representative and took me in through the locked doors and guided me to the office area. They asked me the typical covid questions and name, rank , serial number. That’s about what they asked along with who I was going to see that day. 
  - Check in again: yes I did. There was a desk there I checked into. 
    - Overall, how would you describe that check-in experience? Was it a good or bad experience? Easy or hard? It was just brief I told them my name and DOB. Who I was going to see, audiology, and it was a brief time alter they called me and I went. 
      - What did you like about it? simple, not many people. I was masked and the social distancing policy is in effect. I have been very careful not to go  places not observing the rules, I know the va is strict about it. I meet someone I knew coming out and we chatted briefly. We stayed out distance and were masked. 
      - What did you not like about it? No, it was great. You know the attendants make you feel comfortable and are friendly. It was a good experience 
  - How has checking in for an appointment changed with COVID-19? No not that I can recall. I did notice there was a kiosk operation going there which was helpful because when I go there for my appointments they pay my mileage. I hadn’t used one more to do mileage and it was an easy experience. It was simple, not complicated.
  - First time used: yes. 
    - Did you have to complete a form before entering the facility? Not that I recall. The only thing that I had been asked was covid related and I didn’t fill out any forms I can think of. 
  - After you checked-in, how did you know where to go next? Where were you  directed to go: they told me. It is pretty difficult; you could get lost or misdirected if not playing attention. 
  - Which check-in method do you use most often? In person
  - Have you ever had a check-in experience go wrong at the VA? No never. Some of them, I go to two location on in VM and one in NH. I am equal distance between both so depending on my appointment I would go south or north. The ones in the south can be pretty crowded, pre-covid days, they have a lot going on. I have never been misdirected or had an issue. 
  - Difference between them: the NH facility is easier because there is less people going to VM. 
  - Amount of people or something else: the about of people, fellow veterans, or some I know that ask something. It is a busy place. 
    - If so, can you share what happened?

## Virtual appointments (5 minutes)
- How many virtual appointments have you had since the beginning of the pandemic/COVID-19? 1 on Feb 1 with doctor yelton from white river. It was about an hour long. It was good. 
- Video or phone: just a phone call. 
  - If they’ve had at least one…
    - How do you check in for a virtual appointment? again they sent me a phone, email, and mail notifications on the time which was at noon that he was to call me. So at noon I was at the phone and he called. It was a very good connection. The session was good, we went into it, he is replacing my other primary care doctor at the va. I had to get him up to speed. 
    - First time talking to him: Very first time yes and it was a good experience. 
      - How do you interact with medical staff like nurses? No. Not at all. 
      - Did you need to fill out anything ahead of time? No Ma’am I did not. 
    - Is there anything else we should know about checking in to virtual appointment? No, I think the virtual appointment was good. What I did for him was I took my blood pressure and heart rate for him to provide him as part of the introduction and he was glad to receive. Other than that it was questions/answers, a conversation. It was very well done. 

## Kiosk (25 minutes)
- If they didn’t mention a kiosk above, confirm that they have utilized these machines. Have you ever used one of the check-in kiosk machines at the VA? no
  - If no…
    - Have you ever seen them in a VA location?  Yes I have. I have seen them in White River. The one in Littleton was a different model. 
    - Saw them to check in: No, I can’t say I used it to check in that I recall.
    - Have you seen them as an option: Yes, I have. 
      - Why do you prefer other methods for check-in? it is more personal, I think it is easier. You know a lot of veteran have other things on their mind instead of which buttons to push. At both places I found them to be helpful, thinking of my first appointments there I didn’t know where I was going, upstairs, downstairs. And you ask a questions and you get an answer. It isn’t snappy, moody, its all very well done. 
  - If no or yes (so everyone)... 
    - I'm going to show you a series of tasks that can currently be completed on the kiosk. I'm interested in your feedback on them. I'm also interested in hearing how you complete these tasks. (Prototype: https://preview.uxpin.com/c466c519812f0c48fa2c4e0e25d0a9e703dce5b3#/pages/137806822?mode=cvhidm)
      - First, we'll pretend you are checking in for your appointment with your primary care provider.
        - If the Veteran never used the kiosk
          - What are your thoughts about this workflow? That is very similar to the same design and layout used for mileage. It looks simple, yes very simple. 
          - Contact infomration: Nope, no. 
          - Staff confirm birthdate and SSN: Birthday yes. SSN, only last 4 yes. 
      - Next, we'll look at checking in for a lab test.
        - Have you ever had a lab test at the VA? Yes I have.
          - If yes, what was the experience like? Just like every other one, it worked. One thing I noticed is with the amount of people in the facility, they seem to move through quickly. I have had blood taken some places where I have to wait but the va seems to keep people moving. 
          - Check in: talked to someone sand provided DOB and last 4. 
          - Staff member: Yes. 
        - What are your thoughts about this workflow? I have done this; it is coming back to me with the ticket. I have done this and I get a ticket like at the bakery and sit down and wait my number. It was good, very easy. 
        - What did you like: it was easier and non-complicated. In this instance, you didn’t need people asking questions but it was an easy machine to operate. The number was big and type was large. The appearance makes it look friendlier.
        - Did like: It was all very well done. 
      - Now, we'll check in for pharmacy
        - Have you ever interacted with the Pharmacy at the VA? All of my medication are done by mail order. I do use the onscreen ordering through my computer. I do that for messaging but mainly for pharmacy. 
        - Never been to the location: Never have, no. 
        - What are your thoughts on this workflow? It is pretty simple, streamlined. I think when you do this various system to check in and speed it up they are modernized, kept up with the times. This stuff is good, I like it. 
      - Now, we'll update your next of kin
        - Have you ever updated your Next of Kin at the VA? Not that I recall no. 
        - What are your thoughts on this workflow? I think it is a great way to update and edit stuff. Probably be faster than speaking with a representative. 
      - Lastly, we'll file a Beneficiary Travel Mileage request
        - Have you ever filed for Beneficiary Travel Mileage?  Yes
          - If yes, what was the experience like?  It always worked out well, I have always been paid.
            - What did you like about it? Well when I go in now, I see it and I go to it, and I use it. it is simple, its easy, private, and just another tool the va is providing us to use for our benefit. 
            - What did you not like about it? No, not really. I did see one that was out of order and it was disappointment. 
            - Have you ever had to do it another way: Yes, it was a computer form I printed and mailed it in.
            - Process: I didn’t like that at all. It was confusing, some of the questions that they asked, I don’t recall the question but it was something that didn’t go smoothly and I wondered if I provided the right information. It was strictly mail order form. 
        - What are your thoughts on this workflow? That was just what I filled out; it looks very similar. 
    - If the Veteran answered yes, they have used the kiosk...
      - Have you used the kiosk for anything else that I haven’t asked you about yet? Not that I can recall, No. 

## (Could skip) In-person (5 minutes)
- If they didn’t mention in-person check-in above, Have you ever checked-in by just talking to a VA staff members?
  - If yes,
    - When do you use that method of checking in? Why?
    - Are you normally checking in at a centralized location or a specific clinic/doctor’s office?
    - What questions do they ask you?
    - What paperwork do you fill out?
    - What do you like about checking in via VA staff member? What could be improved?
    - What else should I know about your experience checking in by talking to staff members?

## (Could skip) Via text message (“I am here” system) (5 minutes)
- If they didn’t mention text message check-in above, Have you ever checked-in via text message (maybe from your car in the parking lot)? No I have never used it.
- What about the idea of check in by text: another tool to use. I am not sure where I would be physically to check in by text message. Maybe at a desk in the facility. 
- Anywhere: yeah, sure good messaging from outside in.  

## Wrap-up questions (4 minutes)
- Do you receive any of your healthcare from outside the VA? Yes
  - If yes...
    - What does the check-in process look like at the other facilities that you go to? How does it compare to the VA's check-in process?  I deal with the medical center, the check in process is similar. They like to let you know 2 weeks, 1 week, 3 days and the same hour that you have an appointment to ensure you keep it. they allow a pre-check in that you can do at home like insurance and next of kin. They also text, I have received text messages of upcoming appointments. All similar to the va but the difference in checking in is the general rush and wait. Someone that didn’t check in and doesn’t know who they are or what they are taking up the time. I have not experience3d that at the va, the va is faster and easier. I think if I were to look at the efficiency of the center to the va, I think they both want to get you there and want to know if you wont be there. That’s about it. 
- If you had a magic wand and you could check in for your appointment any way you would like, what would that experience look like? It would be answering the covid questions instead of at the door, in the vehicle by text or the same day/ morning by email so that it is out of the way. I understand temperature can only be done onsite. Other than that if I had the magic wand I want the pre-questioning in that area. 
- Non-covid stuff: I would cast it and hope it goes this time as well as it did last time.
- Still talk to a staff member: Yes. 
  - What about if you could do all the check-in tasks that you can from the kiosk, but on your cell phone? Probably not a cellphone, the reception is sometimes bad. I don’t knowhow it is in Littleton and sometimes down the road here because it is spotty I don’t want to depend on the phone for that. 
  - How would you expect to sign-in, in order to verify who you are, so you can check-in on your cell phone on va.gov? I have the ID card that I can show, I have my va health card. I could use it from home, yes. Some way to verify, I don’t know how to it though. .
  - Additional comments: no not that I can think of. I have never  been mis directed. As hard as they work at the desk, it is always a good experience. It’s not like I don’t want to go back there, its still good.  

## Thank you and closing (2 minutes)
Well we really appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us and allowing us to learn more about the check-in process today. Your feedback is so helpful to us as we continue to work on improving the check-in experience.
Thank you so much again and enjoy the rest of your day!
