# Conversation Guide: Check-In (Veteran-Facing) Remote Discovery Research
Start recording to the cloud.
- I have started recording. I'd like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record my screen and audio as we talk today?”  Yeah I consent. 
Great. Now we're really ready to begin!

## Warm-up Questions/General Check-in Questions - (10 minutes)
To get started, I’d like to get a little background information about you.
- How many in-person appointments have you had since the beginning of the pandemic/COVID-19?  I would estimating  around 10, I had one earlier today, one last week and I think I had two last week. Yeah about 10 over the last year. 
Now, I’m going to ask you to think about your very last medical appointment that you actually went to the VA facility for.
- How did you schedule your last in-person medical appointment? Did you go online, talk to someone in-person at the VA, call, etc.? I had an in-person consult, at the end I went to check out and we scheduled my follow up in regard to that. 
  - Is that how you typically schedule in-person appointments? It depends on the nature, for this it was physical therapy so it made sense to schedule it. Normally yes but if a medical issue comes up I make call or email to schedule. A follow is what I need or like my yearly are scheduled in person. Anything that is planned I normally do it after my last appointment. 
  - Secure email: Yeah, they have the secure messaging on myhealthevet site. 
  - Has your method for scheduling changed since COVID began? Good question, I have had less in person. So yes it has. More stuff use to be scheduled in person but now it is over the phone. I would request it over secure messaging and they call to schedule. Since covid it has been more over the phone. 
- How do you keep track of your upcoming appointments? For me, right when it is schedule either on the phone or in person. I always put it into my calendar, it is the standard calendar app on the phone. Then they normally send an email or reminder call and sometimes a letter. Those remind me and then I check my calendar. My primarily method is my phone so its like my work schedule or other appointments. 
- How did you check-in for your appointment? there’s clinic, the hospital is divided so I went to the clinic and there’s a desk with a person and I checked in with them outside of the clinic. 
- What questions did they ask, process: This is usually typical, its along the lines if they can help or if I have an appointment, then last name and last 4. Today it was brief and to the point. Then they said okay I will let them know you are here and I sat down to wait for a minute or two. 
- Lobby area: yes I have done that before. So for one I don’t always know where it is, I remember I have done so ill check in at the front. A month ago I had an appointment on a Saturday so they had me check in on a kiosk thing in the front lobby. 
  - Overall, how would you describe that check-in experience? Was it a good or bad experience? Easy or hard?
    - What did you like about it? It was short and to the point. Personally, I like that. Some people like to chat, I don’t mind it but I prefer if they asked me exactly what they needed to check in and confirm. I appreciate the straight to the point. 
    - What did you not like about it? Its not a big deal, she was finishing with the person before me. If we are going to pick hairs I didn’t like waiting the whole 30 seconds. I guess one other thing would be better if they acknowledged me then said they will be with me in a minute. I guess instead of us being silent, they acknowledge of being there and it will be a minute. 
  - How has checking in for an appointment changed with COVID-19? In general it seems the same. I did more remote appointments since there, phone and video. In general it is the same. I want to say before covid they asked more questions. They are more straight to the point now. 
    - Did you have to complete a form before entering the facility? No so what we did there’s a person at the front that asks the generic questions on covid. Exposure, symptoms, then put a colored wrist band on.  I think sometimes they do the temperature check. Obviously when you go in they do that to check and confirm. 
- After you checked-in, how did you know where to go next? Where were you directed to go 
- Which check-in method do you use most often?  It depends lately I have been doing it mostly in person. For the location I went to today there are multiple kiosks in the front lobby but off to the side. I think only one of them were on so I didn’t use it but at the end I try to use it for travel mileage for compensation. Then I clicked through it and it told me to see a staff member and I didn’t feel like it so I just left. 
- Kiosk for checking in yes in the past I have done that. A month ago when I came in on a Saturday the person asked me to do that after they asked where I was going and told me where it was. There was decreased staff that day. That time I did it, I have done it in the past but prior to covid. 
- Have you ever had a check-in experience go wrong at the VA? Nothing jumps out at me about a check in process going wring. There’s been times when It took a bit longer but nothing wrong. I don’t remember main issues. 

## Virtual appointments (5 minutes)
- How many virtual appointments have you had since the beginning of the pandemic/COVID-19? So minor point of clarification. I see a counselor type person through a veteran resource center and it is part of the va, should I count those as well.  As far as total virtual appointments, I did about 5 that weren’t through the veteran resource center then 10-15 that were. We just do the phone calls then about 5 through primary care and physical therapy. 
  - How do you check in for a virtual appointment? So the ones that were a phone call, they just called me and I answered and asked me who I am and I confirmed. Checked if I had time and I did. So that’s the case for phone calls, basically you just start the appointment, no real check in process for the video type ones, the same but for one of them I had technical issues, tried on my phone and it wasn’t working then did it on my computer and that was working well either. Then I had a call with the provider to confirm stuff then it turned out there were issues beyond both of our controls. Then I had another one with him and it worked fine from the start. 
    - How do you interact with medical staff like nurses? Yes. For primary care that I had, they were phone calls and the first person would call, a nurse type of role, and ask you the check in type questions. They cant take vitals but ask the check in questions and let me know the doctor would be next. 
    - Right before: yeah they called at the beginning of the appointment. 
    - Did you need to fill out anything ahead of time? Not that I can recall. 
  - Is there anything else we should know about checking in to virtual appointment? Not that I can think of. It is straightforward besides the one time with technical issues. 

## Kiosk (25 minutes)
- If they didn’t mention a kiosk above, confirm that they have utilized these machines. Have you ever used one of the check-in kiosk machines at the VA? Yes, you walk up and it’s a touch screen. It asks you veteran health card, I do so I scan it. Then it presents you to confirm your DOB. Then it goes is this the date you meant, I said yes. Then it provides options to check in, there are other options but I don’t click those unless it is travel. Then it says I am checked in. 
  - Have you ever seen them in a VA location?
    - If yes,
      - Why do you prefer other methods for check-in?
  - If no or yes (so everyone)...
    - I'm going to show you a series of tasks that can currently be completed on the kiosk. I'm interested in your feedback on them. I'm also interested in hearing how you complete these tasks. (Prototype: https://preview.uxpin.com/c466c519812f0c48fa2c4e0e25d0a9e703dce5b3#/pages/137806822?mode=cvhidm)
    - First, we'll pretend you are checking in for your appointment with your primary care provider.
      - If the Veteran has experience with the kiosk
        - Does this look familiar?  I guess I just set it and it automatically does it. 
        - Reason you like the card: I have it on me, it’s the only time I have ever used it. Since I have it and its quicker. The other thing is less screens to click on because the kiosk itself, the touching portion doesn’t always work. If typing in to much the probability of it not being right is higher. 
          - Have you ever updated your contact information on the kiosk? I have probably seen it, but I don’t remember. I have because for a long time I had my home address as my dad’s but then I wanted my mail somewhere and then kept giving me appointments further away. I updated it to get closer appointments. I think there was back and fourth to finally getting it to my home address. One time I did it in person and one time over the phone. 
          - Insurance: I have seen it. 
        - Skip if Veteran described a kiosk experience in the intro section. How would you describe that check-in experience? Was it a good or bad experience? Easy or hard?
          - What did you like about it?
          - What did you not like about it?
        - Have you ever used the kiosk for something that you didn't have an appointment for?
    - Next, we'll look at checking in for a lab test.
      - Have you ever had a lab test at the VA? Yes.
        - If yes, what was the experience like? The most recent time would have been during covid. I went in and went up to the lab area check in desk, told them I had labs and the same thing as before, confirmed name and last 4. When they were ready they came and got me then after I left. 
        - What did you like about it? it was straight to the point, here for labs, confirm who I am and then got going. 
        - What did you not like about it?  Nothing in particular jumps out to me, it was generic and how it would happen anywhere. 
      - What are your thoughts about this workflow? What if you have urine and blood. Sometimes I have had both so if I knew I had both but it told me to only check one, I would be confused. The main location where I go, everything is positioned, the lab is the front desk so it is the same distance of the kiosk. Unless there is a line to check in it is easier for human confirmation. In general if there were any type of wait I would go to the kiosk first. 
    - Now, we'll check in for pharmacy
      - Have you ever interacted with the Pharmacy at the VA? Yeah.
        - If yes, what was the experience like? I think I got the prescription and I don’t remember if I called ahead to make sure it was ready. When I went there I want to say I took a number, I did some sort of check in, maybe at a kiosk and it gave me a number then they called me and I went up and said I am here for a pickup. I think since it was already ready, I could have walked up for check in and told them I was there to pick up. I did the number just in case. 
          - What did you like about it? when I told the number it was to be seen to start the process but since it was already ready I could have walked up. I want certain so if there were more straightforward or intuitive or better signs. There were a lot of people and some people could get into arguments with the staff, I would prefer if I didn’t have to listen to it or deal with it. 
      - What are your thoughts on this workflow?  I guess, so that in which you descript it didn’t have an option to authenticate who you were. That’s what I was going to say, if it does that, if your prescription is already ready and it says who you are. It would be ideal if you didn’t have to be called up to check in and tell them, if you say you are here to pickup it should be to ask you want you want but to give you what you are there for after saying who you are. The process of telling them and then them going to look, I guess it would eb good if they call your number to check up to just get the prescription and make sure it is you then give it to you. 
    - Now, we'll update your next of kin
      - Have you ever updated your Next of Kin at the VA? No, I don’t think so. 
      - What are your thoughts on this workflow? It would be similar to updating the contact infomration, wouldn’t want to do it at a kiosk. That’s personal and I would rather do it on my computer. Sometimes a kiosk is clunky and then load in between and the inputs can be frustrating and clicks the wrong thing. It wouldn’t be convenient for updating but it is for check in. I guess for me personally, anything that needs a lot of information it is annoy and slow and can run into typos, then delete and it erases 3 letters. I would not want to update things on the kiosk. 
    - Lastly, we'll file a Beneficiary Travel Mileage request
      - Have you ever filed for Beneficiary Travel Mileage? Yes
        - If yes, what was the experience like? I dint think I saw the screen for the last 30 days before, I could be wrong but I don’t recall seeing that. The clinic I go to says travel mileage, or when I get to that screen the last two times it told me they cant process it and I needed to see the staff so I gave up. Generally the first screen of the 5 options, after that you say you are in the system, receive it by direct deposit, it confirmed you did not get the government assistance to get there and the address you traveled from. I click through that and before this screen it gave me an error that they are unable to process. That was the screen that said it should be sent automatically but it said see staff. 
          - What did you like about it? when it works it is convenient. I think the only time I ran into issues was this week and last week. Before that it was always exactly how you described this week and last week it presented the error screen. When it works I like it, it is straight to the point, don’t need to talk to someone or fill out papers. 
          - Didn’t do it: when I have time I would but when I have something to do then I wouldn’t. 
          - Always left: the first time going to the va, I went to the office to do it. then of course the second time I could set everything up and from there I would do it on the kiosk. 
  - If the Veteran answered yes, they have used the kiosk...
    - Have you used the kiosk for anything else that I haven’t asked you about yet? I don’t think so. 
    - What would you would like to change about the kiosks? Well besides making them work better like touch screen. The hardware working better but other than that it is annoying to go through year month date. It would be easier if it were confirmed without less screens or clicks. Just hardware that works and I guess less screens or clicks. 

## (Could skip) In-person (5 minutes)
- If they didn’t mention in-person check-in above, Have you ever checked-in by just talking to a VA staff members?
  - If yes,
    - When do you use that method of checking in? Why?
    - Are you normally checking in at a centralized location or a specific clinic/doctor’s office?
    - What questions do they ask you?
    - What paperwork do you fill out?
    - What do you like about checking in via VA staff member? What could be improved?
    - What else should I know about your experience checking in by talking to staff members?

## (Could skip) Via text message (“I am here” system) (5 minutes)
- If they didn’t mention text message check-in above, Have you ever checked-in via text message (maybe from your car in the parking lot)? I don’t think I have ever done that. 
- What do you think about it: that could be good with the caveat. I think a lot of the time when I go to the va place I don’t get good cell reception. If there is great cell reception it would be check in from the parking lot and have the process rolling, that would be fine with me but if I don’t have cell reception then it wouldn’t work. 

## Wrap-up questions (4 minutes)
- Do you receive any of your healthcare from outside the VA? No it is by the va unless outsourced by the mission act. I have done a check in at a civilian dentist and it is the same thing. It is straightforward, go to the front and ask the generic questions. Here we have CVS, minute clinic, it is a small clinic that they can do small things, I have done that. 
  - What does the check-in process look like at the other facilities that you go to? How does it compare to the VA's check-in process? Normally unless you fill out the papers it is straight to the point. Non-va medical providers ask the name and appointment and maybe sign in. they don’t technically confirm who you are, no saying I think someone would impersonate me for a medical appointment. I know in the past every time you see someone they confirm your number and address is current. That was very annoying because I have had the same number since ebbing a teen. But they ask the same thing sometimes multiple times a day. They haven’t asked the last few times so it is an improvement. I think prior to covid they would always ask you to confirm everything. I might be mixing calls and check ins. They would confirm, DOB, name, last 4. Going through all if it all the time isn’t good but yeah right now it is straight froward. When the kiosk work it works fine and recently with a person it has been straight forward. 
- If you had a magic wand and you could check in for your appointment any way you would like, what would that experience look like? I guess if it was straightforward, the id, and answer one question to authentic yourself. I like the concept of the kiosk, so here is your id to scan and click the last 4 instead of multiple screens for BOD, SSN, this is what you wanted. If it was just scan and the last 4. That would be a lot more straightforward and two factor authenticated
  - What about if you could do all the check-in tasks that you can from the kiosk, but on your cell phone? I guess, it depends on one if the app, web portal and user friendly. I would not want my own app for that because I am tired of apps always updating especially when they don’t work well as is. If it is an app I already have, I have at least 1 va app. If it were all in one thing that would work and be fine. If it were a web application check in, yeah that would be fine but if I were prompted. For example, 30 minutes before if I got a text to tell me to check in with the link I would be open to, if it was hose things you need to knowhow to get there or jump through hoops to sign in, I wouldn’t like it. if it were straightforward, user friendly and not glitchy then it would be good. I may have a lot of appointments in a short period, like my yearly check in then maybe not go again. If that’s the case I wouldn’t have it memorized and could have changed. 
  - How would you expect to sign-in, in order to verify who you are, so you can check-in on your cell phone on va.gov? If I received it by text it would be individual to my phone so that one factor if it were only sent to me. Then another confirmation of my name and last 4, that would be sufficient. 
  - Additional questions: you are asking me and I am younger but the older demographics may have issues with apps, kiosks, phones. I have tried to help them sign in for other systems. I guess a key to regarding all of this is you have to support legacy options for those that need regular in person method because they don’t have a phone or refuse to use techy. I wouldn’t want it to be deeply fermented to use an app or portal or text to check in. if the process is overly complex it would be a turn off but if it were straightforward that would be the goal and not have a new one every few months with a different process. Like the first time you get a text, confirm last name and last 4. Then do it by the web and it asks more. It would be best if all were straight forward, last name and alt 4. 
  - Questions for me: the way of the future not only with the growth of tech and streamline. The future concerns of covid, germs and pandemic in generally. The future is minimizing the redundant in person things. Were moving toward apps and web portals. Focusing on it actually working and being user friendly so you don’t get confused short and straight to the point. 

## Thank you and closing (2 minutes)
Well we really appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us and allowing us to learn more about the check-in process today. Your feedback is so helpful to us as we continue to work on improving the check-in experience.
Thank you so much again and enjoy the rest of your day!
