# Conversation Guide: Check-In (Veteran-Facing) Remote Discovery Research, P15
Start recording to the cloud.
- I have started recording. I'd like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record my screen and audio as we talk today?” Yes. 
Great. Now we're really ready to begin!

## Warm-up Questions/General Check-in Questions - (10 minutes)
To get started, I’d like to get a little background information about you.
- How many in-person appointments have you had since the beginning of the pandemic/COVID-19? I haven’t. Maybe one or two in person but most of them have been virtual. 
Now, I’m going to ask you to think about your very last medical appointment that you actually went to the VA facility for.
- How did you schedule your last in-person medical appointment? Did you go online, talk to someone in-person at the VA, call, etc.? They called me to schedule my next appointment. When I leave my appointment they call me in a week to schedule my next. 
  - Is that how you typically schedule in-person appointments? Yes. I have tried to do it online but when I select the time it isn’t available so speaking to someone they can see when the doctor is available. I find it easier because I haven’t been successful online. 
  - Has your method for scheduling changed since COVID began?  Before covid I could make the appointment before I left. When I have them in person I expected to be able to schedule then but I guess they are trying to get in and out of the office. 
- How do you keep track of your upcoming appointments? I get text messages and then they send me a card about the appointment. I prefer the text because I always have my phone. I try to remember but they remind me the day or two before as well. 
- How did you check-in for your appointment? The kiosk, I think you put in the ssn. I forget. I prefer the kiosk. I know that’s what they recommend us to do so I just use that./for some reason it always tells me to see someone to provide my insurance so I always have to see someone. It hasn’t changed so I don’t know why. 
- Complete: it allows me to check in then I have to see someone at the desk. 
  - Overall, how would you describe that check-in experience? Was it a good or bad experience? Easy or hard?
    - What did you like about it? its easy, quick and I don’t have to talk to someone. I just have a seat and wait to be called. 
    - What did you not like about it? I am young so it is easier for me, I cant speak for the other veterans. I enjoy technology. 
  - How has checking in for an appointment changed with COVID-19? No. Not for me. 
    - Did you have to complete a form before entering the facility: I know they reach out to see if I have contact with anyone. The COVID questions like exposure, out of the country. They were asking those before, I cant remember. I know they would ask if you’ve been out of the country. But now they ask if I have been around anyone with covid.
    - They reach out, call prior, or when driving in: I got a call before when the pandemic first started. They would ask the covid questions. Maybe that was when it first happened. 
    - Forms prior: no not that I remember. 
- After you checked-in, how did you know where to go next? Where were you directed to go: I go to the same va for some time. I just know the area, so I know where to go if it is primary or a specialist. My first time I went to the va I wasn’t sure where to sit so I asked them at the desk and they told me. There are signs that say primary care. I don’t think it is hard to figure out. My first appointment I checked in but the kiosk wouldn’t let me because I wasn’t in the right area. 
- Check in at department: right, you have to be there for it to allow you to check in. it will tell you if you are in the wrong area. 
- Which check-in method do you use most often? Kiosk, yes. 
- Talk to staff member or another method: for some reason it tells me to see someone because I have insurance with my work and the VA. I have been doing that for some time. When I first came in and used the va in 2012 the kiosks were fairly new. I would just wait in line like others but then they said we can check  in with the kiosk. It would be nice to check in from my phone by text. I don’t know how that would work. 
- Have you ever had a check-in experience go wrong at the VA? No. No I haven’t. maybe the only thing was when I was in the wrong area it wasn’t on the VA’s side. I just didn’t know where to go but I thought I knew where I was going. 

## Virtual appointments (5 minutes)
- How many virtual appointments have you had since the beginning of the pandemic/COVID-19? Maybe 5-6. I just had one last week. 
- Phone or video: I just had the video one but I have had issues with my internet and my phone service isn’t the best. My wife is working form home so with her on the computer it slows down the internet. I prefer the phone so I don’t need to worry about the call dropping. 
  - How do you check in for a virtual appointment? It is a link for the video when I logged in. when it is the calls they call me then I stay on hold until the doctor joins. I am not sure the system but I get a regular phone call and I verify it is me then stay on hold for the doctor. 
    - How do you interact with medical staff like nurses? It is automated thing; I have to verify that it is me then on hold for a few minutes. 
    - Questions ahead of time: I don’t think I put in my last 4 of my SSN it just says my name . then press 1 and then puts me on hold until the doctor joins. 
    - Nurse before: just automated before, I cant remember speaking to anyone. 
    - Did you need to fill out anything ahead of time? No. 
  - Is there anything else we should know about checking in to virtual appointment? No, I think that’s it. 

## Kiosk (25 minutes)
- If they didn’t mention a kiosk above, confirm that they have utilized these machines. Have you ever used one of the check-in kiosk machines at the VA? I don’t have a card so I put in my SSN and DOB. 
  - If no…
    - Have you ever seen them in a VA location?
      - If yes,
        - Why do you prefer other methods for check-in?
  -If no or yes (so everyone)...
    - I'm going to show you a series of tasks that can currently be completed on the kiosk. I'm interested in your feedback on them. I'm also interested in hearing how you complete these tasks. (Prototype: https://preview.uxpin.com/c466c519812f0c48fa2c4e0e25d0a9e703dce5b3#/pages/137806822?mode=cvhidm)
      - First, we'll pretend you are checking in for your appointment with your primary care provider.
        - [Researcher notes: below are the areas of the prototype to click and some points of the prototype point out when clicking]
        - [Click "Check In to Appointments" button]
        - You can use your card to verify who you are. [Click "I do not have my VHIC" button]
        - Or you can enter your Social Security Number and Date of birth. [Click "Continue" button]
        - [Click any year]
        - [Click any month]
        - [Click any day]
        - [Click "Confirm" button]
        - [Click "Yes" button]
        - Sometimes you may have more than one appointment, so you can select the particular appointment you are signing in for here. [Click "Continue" button]
        - You can update your contact information as well, such as address, home phone and email. [Click "Edit" button next to Address]
        - [Click "Continue" button, then click "Continue" button again]
        - [Click "Edit" next to Home Phone, then click "Continue"]
        - [Click "Edit" next to Email, then click "Continue"]
        - [Click "Continue" button]
        - You can denote if you have health insurance. [Click "Yes"]
        - [Click "Continue"]
        - This screen may show you directions on where to go next, such as what waiting area. [Click "Continue"]
        - Then, you are checked in.
        - If the Veteran never used the kiosk
          - What are your thoughts about this workflow? I'm also interested to hear about how you currently complete this task instead.
       -  If the Veteran has experience with the kiosk
          - Does this look familiar?
          - Do you go to multiple different VA locations?
            - If yes, does the check-in experience differ at each location?
              - Is one experience better or worse than the other? Why?
          - Have you ever been asked additional questions compared to what I just showed you when checking-in via the kiosk?
            - What were the questions?
            - What type of appointments were they for?
            - Have you ever updated your contact information on the kiosk? I have not on the kiosk, when I needed to update it a few years ago I had to go to a person. I see that when I check in. 
            - Who did you update with: It was someone in the front, not a nurse. It was a few years ago, it could have been an admin when you first walk into the va in MD. There is a desk with people to check in if they need to go to the ER, they were the ones that I updated my address with
            - Would you like toon the kiosk: I would like that. If I can do it myself I don’t have an issue doing it on there.
            - Insurance: Yes, I have seen it.
            - Normally do here: I think it asks if it has changed. I think mine asks if it has changed and I click no. at the end it still has me talk to someone. 
            - Thoughts: if I didn’t need to go talk to someone after clicking no that would be good. I think it is good, the technology doesn’t get any easier than that. It is stuff you should already no so it is an easy process for checking in. I don’t think it could be any easier. If you are in the wrong area it will tell you and tell you where to go. I think it is fine for me. 
      - Next, we'll look at checking in for a lab test.
        - Now, you are checked in for a lab test.
        - Have you ever had a lab test at the VA? Yes.
          - If yes, what was the experience like? So previously there use to be someone in there and I would provide my information, last name and last 4 to check in. since I have gone back it is an empty room and then use a computer to check in and wait for someone to call me back. There use to be someone sitting there to check in but now it is a computer to type in my whole SSN. When you type in your SSN, it is X or your social. I haven’t had to put in the wrong SSN so I don’t know what would happen. 
        - What are your thoughts about this workflow? They will call our name when they are ready. This would probably be easier with the kiosk. If using it for the check ins we could use it for labs as well. 
      - Now, we'll check in for pharmacy
        - Have you ever interacted with the Pharmacy at the VA? I attended two VA’s when I came home I would check in for one in Perry Point. You get a number, like at the store. Grab a number, have a seat, when they call it you speak to them with your information and tell them what prescriptions you need and they put in the refill. From there you need to wait for it to be filled. I really wasn’t a fan of that because you could be there for 40 minutes waiting for a prescription. 
        - Length of time: yeah, to many steps. Number, talk to someone, put in refill, wait for it to be filled. Willington, I get most mailed to me but if I am in person she would put it in and I wouldn’t need to check in I would just wait for my name for when it was ready. There was one time when I needed one and I had to put it in. it was the same as at perry point but there are two offices, if it is green you can go in and if it is red you have to wait. Then the same thing about letting them know if it needed to be filled. You don’t have to take a number just need to wait for the person to come out. Yes, it is someone in there to talk to tell them what you want filled. I haven’t had any issues with it. A lot of people are part of the process when they don’t need to be. 
        - Thoughts: it is the same as getting a number and waiting. It would be nice for the medication to appeal and you can click on what you need and you’d only need to go to the pharmacist. This is the same thing, take a number and wait. When you get the number is that when you can talk to someone to tell them what you need filled. 
        - What you said is what you want: yes. Say I need this and that then submits it and once it is ready I pick it up. That would be ideal. 
      - Now, we'll update your next of kin
        - Have you ever updated your Next of Kin at the VA? I need to. I think my wife is on it but it may be my grandmother. I need to update it; I think I have updated it to my wife. I am pretty sure I did.
          - What did you like about it?
          - What did you not like about it?
        - What are your thoughts on this workflow? I feel like it is quick and easy. Maybe there would be, this is like an emergency contact. I feel like it is easy. I am okay with updating it on the kiosk when you come in. 
      - Lastly, we'll file a Beneficiary Travel Mileage request
        - Have you ever filed for Beneficiary Travel Mileage? No. I don’t even think I have used that option because my appointments are all pretty close. 
        - What are your thoughts on this workflow? I guess I would have to do it so I see how it works. Does it calculate form your home address to the appointment. I guess if it weren’t updated on the home page it may impact it. I think I would have to try that. I am moving about 45 minutes away from the va so when is tart going more in person I will need to submit it but it looks easy to me. I may have seen the option but didn’t pay attention to it
        - Which method would you use: the kiosk unless I forgot. I am about doing everything digital. I don’t like having papers with me, if I can do everything through the kiosk I would. 
    - If the Veteran answered yes, they have used the kiosk...
      - Have you used the kiosk for anything else that I haven’t asked you about yet? No, I think that’s it. 
      - What would you would like to change about the kiosks? Maybe an actual keyboard and not the touch screen. I prefer to type it in so a keyboard so you can type it would be easier. There are times I try to press a letter and it hits the wrong one, a keyboard is easier to put in information. 

## (Could skip) In-person (5 minutes)
- If they didn’t mention in-person check-in above, Have you ever checked-in by just talking to a VA staff members?
  - If yes,
    - When do you use that method of checking in? Why? That’s the only time. They really are pushing to check in at the kiosk and I get it., fi we can do it ourselves why go to a person. The only time I didn’t use it was when I first started going to the va. Then they let us know we can use the kiosk as well. 
    - Are you normally checking in at a centralized location or a specific clinic/doctor’s office?
    - What questions do they ask you? They ask my contact information is correct, verify my insurance, that’s really it. maybe all of the same questions as the kiosk, but not  mileage.
    - What paperwork do you fill out?
    - What do you like about checking in via VA staff member? What could be improved? If I had to pick one it would be the kiosk. There is no difference really.  I mean when you check in and already in line, it hasn’t happened to me but I have seen it happen, they tell them to go to the kiosk but they should just check them in then let them know that they are able to show them how to use the kiosk. Not everyone is comfortable with he kiosk. I have seen older vets told to go to the kiosk. 
    - What else should I know about your experience checking in by talking to staff members? No it has been good. It is quick. Only difference is that you are talking to a person. 

## (Could skip) Via text message (“I am here” system) (5 minutes)
- If they didn’t mention text message check-in above, Have you ever checked-in via text message (maybe from your car in the parking lot)?No, I haven’t. 
  - What did you like about that experience? What could be improved? I think it is a good idea if there is a line at the kiosk. Most appointments there are only 2 kiosks and with covid they have hand sanitizer, but if you can check in with your phone it stops people from touching the equipment. Preventing the touch of the same kiosk or waiting in line, you could just do it on your phone. 

##Wrap-up questions (4 minutes)
- Do you receive any of your healthcare from outside the VA? I do everything through the va. I only have other insurance because I have a son. I have to have it for him to be covered. I do everything through the va. I could use the checking process for my son if that would help. 
  - If yes...
    - What does the check-in process look like at the other facilities that you go to? How does it compare to the VA's check-in process? I feel like the other offices are behind, you have to talk to someone to verify the information. That are a little behind. 
- If you had a magic wand and you could check in for your appointment any way you would like, what would that experience look like? I would say check in from a text. What could happen is that if they send a link and it takes you through the steps incase you need to change your address or next of kin you could do it on your phone. That’s my ideal way. It would turn on the location services so I can do it at my appointment or when I am in the lobby. I think that would be ideal doing it all form my phone. 
- Link to an app or website: Probably an app would work better because it depends on my service. I may not get to the website but I would get to the app that asks the same generic questions. I would be okay with the app to check in, like when you are at the airport. If you can do it right form the app it would be easier.
- Texting, but how would you like to be notified: I think text would be better, email there’s a chance to miss them I don’t have the notifications on for email. Text would be the easier way. Push notification would be good if there was an app, it would work as well. If I had to pick one it would be text. 
  - What about if you could do all the check-in tasks that you can from the kiosk, but on your cell phone?
  - How would you expect to sign-in, in order to verify who you are, so you can check-in on your cell phone on va.gov? I guess because the va would have your phone number, I guess someone could have your number. I guess verify your last 4 of DOB. I believe the last 4 is what they use now so verify that to confirm it is the correct person. Just for security purposes I guess. I am pretty sure they would need to protect it, if it asks if it is me I could hit yes or no but if I had to pick one it would eb to verify the last 4.
  - Additional infomration: No. 
  - Questions for me: is the text message being talked about? I think the text message especially with the different strand of COVID would be good. Even an app, it would be put in place I know not everyone would use it but veterans okay with using their phone, provide the options. I know when I go places I always use wipes and hand sanitizer because I am high risk. I would prefer to do it from my phone. 

## Thank you and closing (2 minutes)
Well we really appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us and allowing us to learn more about the check-in process today. Your feedback is so helpful to us as we continue to work on improving the check-in experience.
Thank you so much again and enjoy the rest of your day!
