# Conversation Guide: Check-In (Veteran-Facing) Remote Discovery Research, P2
- Start recording to the cloud.
  - I have started recording. I'd like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record my screen and audio as we talk today?” Yes. 
- Great. Now we're really ready to begin!

## Warm-up Questions/General Check-in Questions - (10 minutes)
To get started, I’d like to get a little background information about you.
  - How many in-person appointments have you had since the beginning of the pandemic/COVID-19? Interesting. Less than 5 and I moved from Tuscan in September to KY. I haven’t had any since Oct. maybe 4 or 5. 
Now, I’m going to ask you to think about your very last medical appointment that you actually went to the VA facility for.
  - How did you schedule your last in-person medical appointment? Did you go online, talk to someone in-person at the VA, call, etc.? Picked up the phone. 
    - Is that how you typically schedule in-person appointments? Yes.
    - Has your method for scheduling changed since COVID began? Making the appointment didn’t change. Once I got there and tried to talk to someone changed and it was disturbing. They wanted to do a number thing and I am a human and don’t appreciate it. they wanted you to wait outside and call in. they had people behind glass so we could talk to them and they weren’t allowed to do anything. I take it as an insult, invalidating. I thought it sucked.
    - What do you mean number thing: it was at the eye clinic. They gave me a number and they don’t know my name even though they have my name and records. I asked if they understood how demeaning it was that we were just another number, we get treated badly anyways then they demean us more. They come out and say number instead of the name. I was in the medical system for 40 years, HIPPA has nothing to do with the name and it was BS. I didn’t like it and I deal with PTSD anyways. You don’t demean others by making them just another number. 
    - Appointment prior to going: yes. 
    - Other: kiosks are a waste of money and are not in our best interest. They are horrible. It is bad enough when we are pushed aside but without human interaction it makes it worse. I isolate anyways then when you take the human part away it is very oppressive. Yes I like the human reaction because I don’t get in elsewhere and it is demeaning. It is insulting and demeaning. 
  - How do you keep track of your upcoming appointments?  I try to put them on my calendar because I have short term memory. If I don’t have the alarms its like it doesn’t exist. I have to mindful when putting things on the calendar and the alarm. The day before and a few hours before depending on the travel distance. 
  - How did you check-in for your appointment? I talked to someone. They were remodeling. I went into the window as I always have. I wanted to slap them but they told me to go take a number. I said for what I am checking in with you and I have an appointment. If I could have fired her I would have on the spot. She pointed and told me to take a number. Then told me to sit in the hallway. Someone came out the back door out the hallway and yelled the number. 
  - Another part of check in: no they put me in the room and told me the doctor would be there in a minute.
  - No name: nope just the number.  Then asked last 4 and date of birth. 
  - Questions before the clinic door: no. 
  - Covid related: they did that before you even got in the door. Take temp, hat off, do this, and od that. I felt like I was being processed into a prison and insulting. I made that my last time into the va. There were no kindness. I refuse to be back to the va and don’t plan on it. the CBOCS in my area aren’t taking new veterans. I can go to the community care and on the VA’s dime.  They need to go back to nice people. In the mental health clinic when I had to go in. we have people there and build relationships with the check in process and it helps a lot. If there is someone I know there, it helps bring my anxiety down because I know them and they know me. I can put faith in them. 
  - What about the experience: it was veterans working to do the check ins. Three of them that were really good with all of us. It was because they were friendly and asked how we were. We didn’t have to open our faces but they could tell. It helped, they asked how to help today. It was the built relationship with our brothers and sisters that helped and being treated like a human not another number. Having a veteran in arms there vs a civilian that is there for a check. They don’t act like we are imposing. We had the choice to build that relationship and bring the anxiety down. They called us by our first name and it is really important. I had mental health and primary in the same area. 
  - primary care the same as mental health: yes once they got me away from the one I was in. it was a lot better because we weren’t a number but were called by our name. they actually cared. Folks that we don’t have relationships with it would me Mr. Ms. Then I sked to be called by my name, you call me by MS and I look for my mama. 
  - Form: yes when I went to see my primary so they could work me in. I had to do that before on paper. 
    - ?

## Virtual appointments (5 minutes)
 - How many virtual appointments have you had since the beginning of the pandemic/COVID-19? No. I think that is just you cant do medicine like that. It is a hands on duty. I was a corpsmen, civilian paramedic, worked in the OR doing open heart for children and adults. 

## Kiosk (25 minutes)
- If they didn’t mention a kiosk above, confirm that they have utilized these machines. Have you ever used one of the check-in kiosk machines at the VA? I have done lab, travel, and check in. 
  - Have you ever seen them in a VA location?
    - If yes,
      - Why do you prefer other methods for check-in?
  - If no or yes (so everyone)...
    - I'm going to show you a series of tasks that can currently be completed on the kiosk. I'm interested in your feedback on them. I'm also interested in hearing how you complete these tasks. (Prototype: https://preview.uxpin.com/c466c519812f0c48fa2c4e0e25d0a9e703dce5b3#/pages/137806822?mode=cvhidm)
      - If the Veteran has experience with the kiosk
        - Does this look familiar? I did both. 
        - Do you go to multiple different VA locations? No, it was just Tuscan I used it at. It was down and unplugged more than it was working. I had to do a hard reboot because there weren’t people around to help and it was the only way to get it to work. I’ve done that more than once. 
        - Have you ever been asked additional questions compared to what I just showed you when checking-in via the kiosk?
          - Have you ever updated your contact information on the kiosk? Yes and what they had on record was in the system. I kept it updated on my HealtheVet and confirm it was correct. 
          - Insurance: yes. 
    - Next, we'll look at checking in for a lab test.
        - Now, you are checked in for a lab test.
        - Have you ever had a lab test at the VA? Yes. I have seen it all. Then I had to do radiology as well. 
        - Same way for labs as other appointments: lab is different because it is more appropriate. There are a lot of people there for labs and radiology.  
          - If yes, what was the experience like? I don’t mind that because it should be used there. 
          - What did you not like about it? for lab I don’t have an issue, anywhere else I don’t like it because it takes so much from us. 
        - What are your thoughts about this workflow?
    - Now, we'll check in for pharmacy
        - You are all checked in.
        - Have you ever interacted with the Pharmacy at the VA? That’s a cluster because you take a number, go to window, get another number then sit then go back to the window. I try to avoid it and have anything I need to be mailed. If it needs to me done faster the provider writes expedite. I don’t recall seeing that it just had take a number on the ticket. I haven’t seen that in Tuscan.  
          - If yes, what was the experience like? It needs to be streamline, taking a ticket, you sit outside and watch the board and have to go back over. The flow is terrible. To many steps. 
    - Now, we'll update your next of kin
        - Have you ever updated your Next of Kin at the VA? No, just once I did it is didn’t need to change it so I haven’t needed to update it.
        - How did you do it: when I checked in they updated our stuff and updated it as I was checking in. It was the clerk we checked in with out front. 
    - Lastly, we'll file a Beneficiary Travel Mileage request
        - Have you ever filed for Beneficiary Travel Mileage? Yes 
          - If yes, what was the experience like? Kiosk. 
            - What did you like about it? the day of travel yes. If you try to claim for prior t0o that day we needed to do it on paper. 
            - Similar though: yes. 
        - What are your thoughts on this workflow? Kept me from one building to the other. It was convenient. It kept us from running to the main building for the travel office. It was very helpful. 
        - [Researchers note: you can stop screensharing now.]
        - What did you not like about it? when the kiosks were down
        - What about on paper: it was just the travel we had to fill out and give to the clerk. Took the same amount of time just the place we had to go was different. If the kiosks were down it was a pain and I said screw it because it was a pain. 
        - Would go to the office: yes. 

## (Could skip) In-person (5 minutes)
  - If they didn’t mention in-person check-in above, Have you ever checked-in by just talking to a VA staff members?
  - Additional about in person I should know about: No, to me I can only speak for myself. It is a much easier nicer and professional process. I am not a number and deserve the respect for what I have been through and I command respect. Technology isn’t everything, it isn’t better it takes us back. They lose their understanding. We are reverting back to being animals. 
  - Labs and travel it works, is that okay: yes. Lab, radiology, use the kiosks. In those situations use it because there are always so many people there. If they enhanced and streamlined the pharmacy that would be good and make it where it would work better. It should not be in the clinic, get rid of the number.  
  - Ideal for clinic: check in with the human, build a relationship, called by name not a number, when the nurse comes to the door and calls me by my name I was like okay. its just much nicer. That is needed. It has to be there; you cant create a standard of care without the compassion with providers. It needs to be in all areas, it makes our lives easier with a sloid flow pattern, we need people with a smile that don’t treat like we are putting them out. The human connection is important. Sometimes that is the only time we have those connections. It is terribly important.
  - Ideal for labs, radiology, pharmacy: well because of the great numbers waiting, honestly I don’t know what to tell you about pharmacy. Like I said before, lab and radiology number because of the amount of people. 
  - Those types of tasks on mobile: that would be slamming, we wouldn’t need to fight with he kiosks. 
  - Only for certain things: yes, pharmacy, labs, radiology. Yeah. However, I have my older brothers and sisters wills ay bite me. The older veterans it may be a tough sell for them and could be difficult for them to do. I like it. I know vets without a computer to this day. I really have to take them into consideration. 
  - How to sign in: if it were merged with my HealtheVet because a lot of us use them for records, meds, appointments. When I did, I did it on there. I haven’t been on there in a while. 

## (Could skip) Via text message (“I am here” system) (5 minutes)
- If they didn’t mention text message check-in above, Have you ever checked-in via text message (maybe from your car in the parking lot)?I have never done that but I have received reminders for appointments. I don’t think it would be to hard to figure it out. 
- Automatic check in text, would you like that: I like the reminders but if it is done in advance I don’t like that. The time of my appointment or 15  minutes before is more appropriate. I wouldn’t want to check in ahead by a text. If I do that it takes away form the human contact. I want to talk to a person. 
- Before for a lab: yes that would be okay. 

## Wrap-up questions (4 minutes)
- Outside provider: yes because I can’t get into the va. I am in the TN valley system but the CBOCs aren’t taking veterans. There are waiting lists. I didn’t know choice went away. It took weeks to be seen outside. It is a cluster to get established with the va to be seen by someone on the outside. Once you are established.
- Check in for outside va appointments:  civilian providers, I am in god’s country. I don’t have to wear a mask. Were all good. I go to the clinic, the hiatal says that we have to check in on the phone then call me when I can come in. the mask thing I halfway done. They take my temp, then let me go in. I am met by my nurse. I have more human interaction on the human side. It is more personable. I have to wait until they call me to come in is a pain in the butt but once I am inside it is good I have everyone upfront. When I can tell you the name of the people that is good. You lose social skills when dealing with technology. Technology is not a good thing it’s just not.
- Additional comments: people are the way to go. Take the kiosks away and give the tech to the clerks. 

## Thank you and closing (2 minutes)
Well we really appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us and allowing us to learn more about the check-in process today. Your feedback is so helpful to us as we continue to work on improving the check-in experience.
Thank you so much again and enjoy the rest of your day!
