# Conversation Guide: Check-In (Veteran-Facing) Remote Discovery Research
Start recording to the cloud.
- I have started recording. I'd like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record my screen and audio as we talk today?” Yes ma’am. 
Great. Now we're really ready to begin!

## Warm-up Questions/General Check-in Questions - (10 minutes)
To get started, I’d like to get a little background information about you.
- How many in-person appointments have you had since the beginning of the pandemic/COVID-19? Um, in person probably 2 maybe 3. I cannot really remember. I have done a number of telephone visits I guess. 
Now, I’m going to ask you to think about your very last medical appointment that you actually went to the VA facility for.
- How did you schedule your last in-person medical appointment? Did you go online, talk to someone in-person at the VA, call, etc.? I think that the only in person I had were not with the doctors but with the nurses for shots. I guess I called into the 800 number I forget exactly. I was my contact for primary care but ended up talking to their assistance. 
  - Is that how you typically schedule in-person appointments? Yes.
  - Has your method for scheduling changed since COVID began? No. 
- How do you keep track of your upcoming appointments? I put it into my iPhone, my ultimate brain. I am good at appointments and keep track but I also notice that I get reminders from the va that I have an appointment coming up like an email listing. Like I got one with one for December, like an annual. I think it is fine. More information is better than none. That is my personal take I see that some people would say its to early to tell me but its there. 
- How did you check-in for your appointment? Walk up to the desk basically. I mean its really a painless process. What’s your last four, birthday, they don’t eve bother with my name but that’s it. I usually check in 15-20 minutes prior.
- Questions at check in: no but when I see the nurse they want to know if I am in pain or having suicidal thoughts. That’s not at the check in desk.  
  - Overall, how would you describe that check-in experience? Was it a good or bad experience? Easy or hard? It is easy. 
    - What did you like about it? that its easy. 
    - What did you not like about it? not really. 
  - How has checking in for an appointment changed with COVID-19? I guess the process of someone taking a temperature before entering. It is less convenient but needed. You see disinfectant everywhere and signs reminding you to do this. My take. 
    - Did you have to complete a form before entering the facility?  No. Driving up to the facility there is a check point asking the questions about symptoms, I can’t remember if they take the tempt here or not but they give you a band and a sticker to put it on you so when you enter they see that you are cleared or something.  
- After you checked-in, how did you know where to go next? Where were you directed to go:” because I know where to go, I don’t know how to answer that question. I know my doctors and where the labs are. I have been there enough to know. I suppose like the first time I ever went I didn’t know anything. I was told prior to going what floor to go to for check in for the doctors. From then on when they scheduled me for labs they told me what floor to go to. 
- Office call or email, how did you know: It was the phone call. it was verifying. At that point they didn’t have my email so it was just phone calls. 
- Which check-in method do you use most often? This could be using the kiosk, talking directly with VA staff, using text messaging , or how your access virtual appointments: well it’s in the hallway at a reception desk with 2-3 people there. 
- Primary care: well no, all of the doctors. It is in liver wore CA. all the doctors are on the same floor. All primary care is on one side then specialty on the other side. It is pretty easy actually. 
- Text or kiosks: not to check in. I have exchanged an email between the medical assistance and myself. It ahs nothing to do with the check in process. I have my card to use but I never used it. I prefer to talk to someone. 
- Have you ever had a check-in experience go wrong at the VA? No. 

## Virtual appointments (5 minutes)
- How many virtual appointments have you had since the beginning of the pandemic/COVID-19? Okay so I have had one video visits and I have had a few phone visits if you want to call it that. 
  - If they’ve had at least one…
    - How do you check in for a virtual appointment? Kind of like how I am doing this with you right now. I get the reminder, in an email. Interesting enough the doctors calls me on the phone and tells me I can go on the computer screen now. I am on the phone with them and I check in on the video. Then we talk together as we are now. 
      - Did you need to fill out anything ahead of time? Not one the video, on the phone vibists yes. The nurse would call me first and ask questions. After I pass the interview she hands me to the doctors or transfers me to the doctor. 
        - How far in advance of your appointment do you fill it out? Immediately before. 
        - Type of questions: are you in pain. Questions about suicidal thoughts. 
      - Is there anything else we should know about checking in to virtual appointment? No. Like I said I think I only had 2-3 and they followed the same format. They’re good at reminding you of appointments. 

## Kiosk (25 minutes)
- If they didn’t mention a kiosk above, confirm that they have utilized these machines. Have you ever used one of the check-in kiosk machines at the VA? No, never tried to use one. 
  - If no or yes (so everyone)...
    - I'm going to show you a series of tasks that can currently be completed on the kiosk. I'm interested in your feedback on them. I'm also interested in hearing how you complete these tasks. (Prototype: https://preview.uxpin.com/c466c519812f0c48fa2c4e0e25d0a9e703dce5b3#/pages/137806822?mode=cvhidm)
      - First, we'll pretend you are checking in for your appointment with your primary care provider.
        - If the Veteran never used the kiosk
          - What are your thoughts about this workflow? SSN before but never used the card before. At the beginning I saw the picture of the check in device. It looked like it was a different model then the one at the VA. It looks like you place the card in a holder and scans visually. The one I see that the VA is one that you have your pard and place it in like an ATM. Does that device give you the same information you are showing me now. 
          - Where are they in the VA: there is in the main area, one outside the blood lab, and there’s the central check in desk as well. The blood lab area also have imagining, there is a lot of test facilities there. 
          - Updated information with va: no. Not my contact infomration no. 
          - Thoughts: the kiosk is in an open are, if I am going to enter personal information I don’t want someone behind me looking. It would be nicer if it weren’t in an open area for this kind of information. The way it is set up to check in there’s no issue with he area. If you were to ask me to display private information I would prefer it to be a closed area. 
          - Additional Thoughts: no.
          - What about suing one to check in: I am not sure I understand the question. I would rather talk to the person.  
      - Next, we'll look at checking in for a lab test.
          - Now, you are checked in for a lab test.
          - Have you ever had a lab test at the VA? No. 
            - If yes, what was the experience like? It is simple, you walk in and take a number. You sit in the waiting room and the tech comes out and asks for the number. It is an easy process. It doesn’t require me to do anything other than I have the number. 
            - What did you not like about it? No.
          - What are your thoughts about this workflow? Once in a while I go to the blood lab and they say they don’t have any requests and the doctor told me to come here from a week before and was going to submit the request. The request isn’t there, they were able to text the doctor from the lab and get an immediate response with the lab request. It worked out, I am curious about the process and steps the doctor has to take in order to submit it electronically. In a civilian environment would not have been as smooth. 
          - Experience from va to outside: lab corps in our area has the kiosk check in device just like the one you are displaying but with the driver’s license. That’s great. Of course I bring the lab request print out the doctor submitted and bring it with me just in case. Once in a while, it is good I did because they can’t find the request. That’s the difference. I have not ran into that with the va.  The va has the same process only difference is that I bring my paper request for outside of the va. It hasn’t hurt anything. I can see if I asked for a paper request I may be a delay because it is shared printing on a certain form. When I was transferring files from civilian to va they told me to take it to a certain room where they did all of the scanning and then the office gave the electronic file to the doctors wherever that person was. If that is the process then that’s the process. It would be easier if the paper file could eb sent directly to the doctor. It may be an issue with equipment or cost. 
      - Now, we'll check in for pharmacy
        - Have you ever interacted with the Pharmacy at the VA? no
          - If yes, what was the experience like? I have never had to go to the window. Mine has always been transmitted from the doctor to pharmacy then mailed to me. I have never had to go to the window. The refills are great, just call the 800 number and answer questions and I get my meds 3-4 days later. 
        - What are your thoughts on this workflow?  I don’t know I have never used it so I don’t know how to answer it properly. I guess I would expect the same procedure as a CVS. 
      - Now, we'll update your next of kin
        - Have you ever updated your Next of Kin at the VA? No
        - What are your thoughts on this workflow? I think that is wonderful. I am computer literate but I don’t think I have used the system to text someone. It’s more like an email. Myhealthevet, that’s what it is. I can send documents; I don’t know if that portal would allow you to change the information. If it does I would prefer to do it that way instead of waiting for my next appointment. If I can do it on my own time than I prefer to do it on my computer. 
      - Lastly, we'll file a Beneficiary Travel Mileage request
        - [Click "Beneficiary Travel Mileage"]
        - Have you ever filed for Beneficiary Travel Mileage? No, I live 15 miles from the va. I am close. 
        - What are your thoughts on this workflow? No it is like submitting a reimbursement for the company you work for. Easy. No change. 
      - What would you would like to change about the kiosks?

## (Could skip) In-person (5 minutes)
- If they didn’t mention in-person check-in above, Have you ever checked-in by just talking to a VA staff members?
- Additional comments: I would have to think about that. All the interaction I have had were good and good outcomes. They have always asked information about what we were trying to accomplished, clerk, nurse, and doctors. All conversations have been appropriate. 

## (Could skip) Via text message (“I am here” system) (5 minutes)
- If they didn’t mention text message check-in above, Have you ever checked-in via text message (maybe from your car in the parking lot)? Not with the va but with the civilian doctors and lab corps yes. 
  - Thoughts: I think it is a wonderful think but it is a generational issue because the older guys wouldn’t respond as well as the younger ones. I know some people, older guys, don’t have phones with texting. They have a 10-15 year old phone they used as a phone nothing else. Fi that is what they have then that’s it. texting is out of the questions. For me I would be interested. 
  - Other ways with the phone to check in, would that interest you: are you talking about an app. Yeah, sure. I have access to Stanford healthcare. I don’t know if you know about them but it’s a system that allows me to make an appointment, communicate with the doctors. My health team.
  - Like my HealtheVet: yes but on my cellphone
  - What do you like about it:  there’s tests so you can check an appointment for that, then messages, appointments, medications, health reminders, health summary, billing, insurance, education, and care team.
  - Check in through there: yes. With appointments I click on the tab and it shows me the appointments I have had going back to 2018. It tells me my upcoming appointments as well and if it is video, phone or whatever the case may be. It allows me to make the appointments well. Not in the app for check in. this app is only a few years old and pre-pandemic I didn’t make much use but with all of the video and phone visits that’s how it was handled.
  - Use it afterwards: yes it makes life easier
  - Why: well I don’t have to get in my car to go to the doctors, that’s the biggest benefit. Although what is missing is the ability of sitting in front of the doctor for physical exams. If you go to long they could miss something. 
  - How to sign in: using the same as myhealthevet. The issue with technology I have is remembering the password and username.  So I have a word document that is 4 pages long of the site is go to with my id and password. My goodness. I only keep it on one computer but each time I want to login I have to go look at my login. It is cumbersome.
  - Issues signing into va systems: not anymore. At the beginning when I didn’t know what I was doing I guess I choose to log in with the double authentication process. What I choose out of ignorance, it brought you somewhere else that you needed a code then took you back into the va system. It is more secure which I like but if I would have chosen a different way it would have been easier. I don’t want to change it though; I like what I have.  

Wrap-up questions (4 minutes)
- If you had a magic wand and you could check in for your appointment any way you would like, what would that experience look like? I would like to have an 800 number that would get me directly to the doctor’s office instead of the general 800 number where they ask the last 4 and take you to the screen and tell you okay and transfer you. They don’t even transfer you they send a message to somewhere and they call you back pretty quickly but its still a process. 
- Checking in: to me checking in means you are there at the facility. I suppose the best of all word you have the card and scan it somewhere like the chip on the credit card and they know you are there. 
  - Additional thoughts: I am not a specialist in industrial engineering its not something you hear anymore. In the best of all worlds with the technology we have today, the chip. I am not even sure what infomration is on the chip but if the medical records could be on the card and have a sensor to read it at each check in point that would be wonderful. I was watching something and they were in Israel talking to a military doctor. What I gleamed is that in the Israeli army they have the dog tag that has a  chip and has the entire persons medical history, next or kin in their dog tag and wherever they are the information is available right there. It is like the card I carry. 

## Thank you and closing (2 minutes)
Well we really appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us and allowing us to learn more about the check-in process today. Your feedback is so helpful to us as we continue to work on improving the check-in experience.
Thank you so much again and enjoy the rest of your day!
