# Conversation Guide: Check-In (Veteran-Facing) Remote Discovery Research
Start recording to the cloud.
- I have started recording. I'd like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record my screen and audio as we talk today?” Yes, I am. No problem. 
Great. Now we're really ready to begin!

## Warm-up Questions/General Check-in Questions - (10 minutes)
To get started, I’d like to get a little background information about you.
- How many in-person appointments have you had since the beginning of the pandemic/COVID-19? Well very few with the exception of blood draws so they have to allow that. It was probably three times in the last year. 
Now, I’m going to ask you to think about your very last medical appointment that you actually went to the VA facility for.
  - How did you schedule your last in-person medical appointment? Did you go online, talk to someone in-person at the VA, call, etc.? that was lets say 15 months ago. I mean I usually get a call telling me when I can and when I can get there. It is all done by phone. 
    - Is that how you typically schedule in-person appointments? They reach out to me because once a month I schedule my appointments for the va and I look over it. they don’t make any of sense to me there’s a lack of information. It tells you where to go but not who you need to see. 
    - In mail or email: it is an email. 
    -Other information you would like : I would like to know the doctor; it just tells me the va. Like I said it is useless to send it out because you need to call to know who you are going to see. If you send an email and you wait to hear back. One way or the other I always find out. Well, it always has the time. Obviously, it is military time. No just the provider would be a great help. I keep them all online. I use outlook. I put everything in outlook and it pops up when I have an appointment. 
    - Has your method for scheduling changed since COVID began?
  - How do you keep track of your upcoming appointments?
  - How did you check-in for your appointment? You have to stop at the front desk and show your id, then you tell them where you are going like eye glass, then check in over there at the machine. 50% percent of the time you still have to go to the desk and give them your last 4. 
    - What did you like about it? I don’t have an opinion; it is all easy. I have been going for so many years you get use to it. you sit and wait for 20 minutes then they call you back.
    - What did you not like about it? No, as long as you’ve been there you know you just gotta play the game. 
  - How has checking in for an appointment changed with COVID-19? The check in procedure has changed because you have the 20 questions about covid. Then the temperature check and then they ask where you’re going and you have to be pointed in the directions so you don’t get it wrong. Like I said its no big deal.  It’s a big circle its no big deal. 
- After you checked-in, how did you know where to go next? Where were you directed to go: If you show the persona t the front desk the paper you received they will tell you to turn left and go down the hall and its right there. It is pretty good. At least they know where they are going. They are knowledgeable 
- Which check-in method do you use most often? This could be using the kiosk, talking directly with VA staff, using text messaging , or how your access virtual appointments. I print out my thing or sometimes they will mail it to you and it tells you when and where to go. 
- Papers once there: only like yesterday I had to see the outside hearing doctor, the va gave me hearing aids last year and I filed for an increase and they required an outside company to get the answer. I can hear so they gave me hearing aids and then sent me to another doctor to be told the same thing just because I filed a claim. It’s a waste of money but you have to play the game. 
- Checking method most often: like I said the kiosk only works 50 percent of the time so the front desk, to the desk area where your provider is like the eyeglasses. 
- Kiosks in central location or at the department: allover the building. I don’t know the deal with it. 
- Do you try to use it: I give it a try, at least they mark it as out of order so you know that one doesn’t work. 
- Have you ever had a check-in experience go wrong at the VA? No because all you do is put in the information and it feedback your infomration and you just mark yes or no. 

## Virtual appointments (5 minutes)
- How many virtual appointments have you had since the beginning of the pandemic/COVID-19? My psychiatrist  calls me every 40-45days so I talk with her often. Its supposed to be video but I don’t know how to so my daughter dose it. it has been a phone call visit but it will be video now. 
  - If they’ve had at least one…
    - How do you check in for a virtual appointment? She still calls me on the phone and says hi. Then asks you to turn on the video connect and I talked to her on the phone for about 45 minutes. 
    - Other providers or just he one: my last primary care doctor was primary care as well before getting the video on my phone. 
    - Check in: they called me. 
      - How do you interact with medical staff like nurses? No. 
      - First person the doctor: yes. 
      - Did you need to fill out anything ahead of time? No. I never had to fill anything out prior to the appointment. 
    - Is there anything else we should know about checking in to virtual appointment? No the phone conversation is very easy. I cant wait to do my first virtual one with the picture. I am sure that will be an experience in itself. They’ll be in coat and tie and ill be in my underwear. 

## Kiosk (25 minutes)
- If they didn’t mention a kiosk above, confirm that they have utilized these machines. Have you ever used one of the check-in kiosk machines at the VA?
  - If no…
    - Have you ever seen them in a VA location?
      - If yes,
        - Why do you prefer other methods for check-in?
  - If no or yes (so everyone)...
    - I'm going to show you a series of tasks that can currently be completed on the kiosk. I'm interested in your feedback on them. I'm also interested in hearing how you complete these tasks. (Prototype: https://preview.uxpin.com/c466c519812f0c48fa2c4e0e25d0a9e703dce5b3#/pages/137806822?mode=cvhidm)
      - First, we'll pretend you are checking in for your appointment with your primary care provider.
        - If the Veteran has experience with the kiosk
          - Have you ever been asked additional questions compared to what I just showed you when checking-in via the kiosk? No. 
            - Have you ever updated your contact information on the kiosk? No I haven’t had to update anything in years. 
          - Skip if Veteran described a kiosk experience in the intro section. How would you describe that check-in experience? Was it a good or bad experience? Easy or hard?
            - What did you like about it? when it works its great but when it doesn’t then it does. I don’t know why they cant keep it fixed. Its not lick you need to push a button for it to break. Its hard to say what happens to them but 50 percent of the time is doesn’t work. Its just really easy, provides options for answers as well as you say yes or no you don’t have issues. It is idiot proof. 
            - What did you not like about it?
        - Have you ever used the kiosk for something that you didn't have an appointment for?
    - Next, we'll look at checking in for a lab test.
      - Now, you are checked in for a lab test.
      - Have you ever had a lab test at the VA? Similar and quick. 
        - If yes, what was the experience like?
        - What did you like about it? as long as it works it is fast. It is easier than talking to a human. 
        - What did you not like about it? no it is very good. 
    - Now, we'll check in for pharmacy
      - Have you ever interacted with the Pharmacy at the VA? I get all of my medication mailed to me. 
      - What are your thoughts on this workflow? Oh cool. That looks easy. 
    - Now, we'll update your next of kin
      - Have you ever updated your Next of Kin at the VA? No I haven’t. I haven’t changed anything on the kiosk. 
      - Have you every changed anything: when I first signed up that’s when I filled did out and haven’t had to update it. 
      - What are your thoughts on this workflow? Yeah if I needed to. That’s good, it is easier than talking to a human. For the most part they aren’t that interested in you, they are to busy answering the phone. Can be done fast here. 
    - Lastly, we'll file a Beneficiary Travel Mileage request
      - [Click "Beneficiary Travel Mileage"]
      - Have you ever filed for Beneficiary Travel Mileage? No, they just do it for me. Like yesterday I live in carl springs and had to go 25 miles away they said they would mail me the milage. 
      - Process for you: well if you had to file for milage yourself you have to fill out the form and give it to the travel window but today if you know where you are going to travel to. They sent me the information and told me it was 25 mile there and 25 miles back and they would mail me the check for the 50 mile round trip. That time I didn’t have to do anything. I never had to use that.
      - Travel office: one time to turn in the form but that was years ago. I live 4 miles from the va and I can’t believe they will pay the whole 8 miles. It is to much paperwork then its worth. 
    - Have you used the kiosk for anything else that I haven’t asked you about yet? No. 
    - What would you would like to change about the kiosks? Nothing. Like I said it is easy. If they made it harder you’d need to think more. As long as you know yourself, its idiot proof. 

## (Could skip) In-person (5 minutes)
- If they didn’t mention in-person check-in above, Have you ever checked-in by just talking to a VA staff members?
  - Additional comments: well the staff member seems to be busy with the phones. They all seem to be on the phone all the time so you stand and wait to ask the questions. Normally you don’t need to talk to them unless you are going to schedule another appointment. Everything is automatically done for you if you don’t need to make an appointment. 

## (Could skip) Via text message (“I am here” system) (5 minutes)
- If they didn’t mention text message check-in above, Have you ever checked-in via text message (maybe from your car in the parking lot)? No I don’t think so. I get a lot of text messages on my phone but I don’t bother to read them. If they sent me one I don’t know. I am not interested. The phone is there to be used a s a phone not at an internet connect or computer connect. Not to sent pictures or anything that’s way to much. I think I am getting to old to mess with the phone and I cant see it much. Its not work the hassle. I would rather the computer in front of me instead of the phone because I am one handed as well. 
- What about apps: no I do that on the computer so I wouldn’t take advantage of that. I use the computer to order my medicine and its delivered to me. 
- Add more for you: you would need to call me because a text would go to the trash. 
- What about email: as far as I am concerned an email is a two way conversation so you can do that. 
- How to sign in: you have to use the government email system and it tells me I have a message from the va. That’s not something you can miss. 

## Wrap-up questions (4 minutes)
- If you had a magic wand and you could check in for your appointment any way you would like, what would that experience look like? It would be on the computer through the va system, email system or whatever you want to call it. I always go tova.gov to connect with the va programs. For me, a computer is easier, I have gotten use the computer. Phones forget it, I don’t want that. 
- Outside care: for hearing I filled out the form which I believe was their form not the government. The doctors form and when I got there I had to fill it out again but they gave me 5 pieces of paper instead of the 1. Not being able to write my wife had to take it form the form prior to the new form because they wanted the same information again. I am not sure if it were the va form or the doctors form. 
- If don’t on the computer: that would have been easier and I could have done it myself. 
- Additional comments: no I filled out the forms again and had me sit down. When it was my time the nurse came and got me and that was it. 

## Thank you and closing (2 minutes)
Well we really appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us and allowing us to learn more about the check-in process today. Your feedback is so helpful to us as we continue to work on improving the check-in experience.
Thank you so much again and enjoy the rest of your day!
