# Conversation Guide: Check-In (Veteran-Facing) Remote Discovery Research
Start recording to the cloud.
- I have started recording. I'd like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record my screen and audio as we talk today?” Yes. 
Great. Now we're really ready to begin!

## Warm-up Questions/General Check-in Questions - (10 minutes)
To get started, I’d like to get a little background information about you.
- How many in-person appointments have you had since the beginning of the pandemic/COVID-19? I probably have had at least a dozen. 
Now, I’m going to ask you to think about your very last medical appointment that you actually went to the VA facility for.
  - How did you schedule your last in-person medical appointment? Did you go online, talk to someone in-person at the VA, call, etc.?  that appointment was scheduled using my HealtheVet messaging. So it was an inquiry then primary care reached back and we scheduled that way. 
    - Is that how you typically schedule in-person appointments? Its that way or in person for a follow up. That ahs bene my experience unless it is telehealth and that’s normally talked about during the visit and projected out. 
    - Has your method for scheduling changed since COVID began? I have done that prior to covid as well.
  - How do you keep track of your upcoming appointments? Myhealthevet gives alerts for upcoming appointments so I can logon and get the information from there. 
  - How did you check-in for your appointment? When I arrive I either do it at the desk or the little kiosk. 
  - \which at the last: the very last one was a kiosk. 
    - Overall, how would you describe that check-in experience? Was it a good or bad experience? Easy or hard? Super easy, I scanned my card and confirmed my birthday and confirmed the appointment. 
      - What did you like about it? I like that I don’t have to talk to anyone. 
      - What did you not like about it? no. 
    - How has checking in for an appointment changed with COVID-19? Not for checking in but the process when coming into the facility they check your temperature. 
      - Did you have to complete a form before entering the facility? If yes, probe on if it was something completed in advance/on their mobile device/paper/something else: I have had forms mailed to me that I had to fill out and mail back. 
      - Always mail them back: sometimes I bring it with me. It is general health questions like history and current symptoms and verifying my address.
      - For which type: primary care. 
  - After you checked-in, how did you know where to go next? Where were you directed to go: the location I check into. The departments have their own areas. 
  - What about prior: I would ask the greeters or if I is the small clinic there’s only one waiting room. At the amin hospital they are in the main lobby so you can check in prior but I like to find the location then check in. 
  - Which check-in method do you use most often? kiosk talking directly with VA staff, using text messaging , or how your access virtual appointments
  - Have you ever had a check-in experience go wrong at the VA? No

## Virtual appointments (5 minutes)
  - How many virtual appointments have you had since the beginning of the pandemic/COVID-19? About 15 ish. 
    - If they’ve had at least one…
      - How do you check in for a virtual appointment? I look on my appointment scheduled on myhealthevet. If it is at a certain time before the visit you can just click the link and it takes you to the page to enter the meeting. 
        - How do you interact with medical staff like nurses? Yeah, that has happened if it is the first time at the office and they call to verify if I will be there or if I need to change something. It has only happened a few times. 
        - Did you need to fill out anything ahead of time? Sometimes it was 30 minutes before and it has happened while I am already in the appointment. For mental health appointments I had to fill out a questionnaire prior and during the appointment I red it to them. 
        - How did you get it: it was mailed to me then I just used the same guide. 
      - Is there anything else we should know about checking in to virtual appointment? From my experience it has been very easy. 

## Kiosk (25 minutes)
- If they didn’t mention a kiosk above, confirm that they have utilized these machines. Have you ever used one of the check-in kiosk machines at the VA?
 -  If no…
    - Have you ever seen them in a VA location?
      - If yes,
        - Why do you prefer other methods for check-in?
 -  If no or yes (so everyone)...
    - I'm going to show you a series of tasks that can currently be completed on the kiosk. I'm interested in your feedback on them. I'm also interested in hearing how you complete these tasks. (Prototype: https://preview.uxpin.com/c466c519812f0c48fa2c4e0e25d0a9e703dce5b3#/pages/137806822?mode=cvhidm)
      - First, we'll pretend you are checking in for your appointment with your primary care provider.
        - If the Veteran has experience with the kiosk
          - Does this look familiar? Yes. I normally sue my card, yeah. I used my SSN before I got my card. 
          - Do you go to multiple different VA locations?
            - If yes, does the check-in experience differ at each location? I started going to Northing CA so I have been to that one then the little on in my town. 
              - Is one experience better or worse than the other? Why? Not from what I remember, some have the card scanner and some have the swipe. 
          - Have you ever been asked additional questions compared to what I just showed you when checking-in via the kiosk? No. 
   - Next, we'll look at checking in for a lab test.
      - Have you ever had a lab test at the VA? Yes, only at the main facility. 
        - What did you like about it? I just like that it is easy and you don’t need to wait in line to check in, it is really fast. 
        - What did you not like about it? I don’t think there’s anything I don’t like. I have been them out of order sometimes but other than that there’s nothing I don’t like. I have experienced them not working once or twice. 
    - Now, we'll check in for pharmacy
      - Have you ever interacted with the Pharmacy at the VA? Yes. 
      - Always the same: sometimes if I recall correctly, the salt lake va I don’t remember there being a machine so I went to the window to check in. 
        - What did you like about it? I think the kiosk is the best because you’ll wait in line to check in. 
    - Now, we'll update your next of kin
      - Have you ever updated your Next of Kin at the VA? I have updated on my HealtheVet. 
      - What are your thoughts on this workflow? I think it is good and convenient if someone doesn’t have their infomration up to date. 
    - Lastly, we'll file a Beneficiary Travel Mileage request
      - [Click "Beneficiary Travel Mileage"]
      - Have you ever filed for Beneficiary Travel Mileage? I  have done it online. 
        - If yes, what was the experience like? At first it was confusing but now I understand and it calculates it for you. It was easy after doing it once or twice.
        - What was confusing: for me was initially navigating to the actual thing because you start on one page with icons and one has travel and I was misreading the instructions and clicked on va.gov.
    - What are your thoughts on this workflow? I think this is easier. Online I didn’t see the mileage calculation. I guess your address would be on file and auto populate. It seems like it would be easy to do when checking in. 
  - If the Veteran answered yes, they have used the kiosk...
    - Have you used the kiosk for anything else that I haven’t asked you about yet? No. 
    - What would you would like to change about the kiosks? I think I noticed and have taken care of it. on the kiosk I wasn’t able to enter my alternate insurance infomration on one. I cant remember why but then I did it in person and it was done. It would have been one less step if I could have done it on the kiosk. 

## (Could skip) In-person (5 minutes)
- If they didn’t mention in-person check-in above, Have you ever checked-in by just talking to a VA staff members?
  - What do you like about checking in via VA staff member? What could be improved? Not that I can think of. 
  - What else should I know about your experience checking in by talking to staff members? I guess only if there’s no kiosk available but if there’s one there I will use it. 
  - Different questions: no. 

## (Could skip) Via text message (“I am here” system) (5 minutes)
- If they didn’t mention text message check-in above, Have you ever checked-in via text message (maybe from your car in the parking lot)? I have seen the signs but I have not done it myself. It is more like I don’t want to check in if I am barely making it on time and I am not there when they call my name. 

## Wrap-up questions (4 minutes)
- Do you receive any of your healthcare from outside the VA? I have but all of my care is through the va right now. 
  - What does the check-in process look like at the other facilities that you go to? How does it compare to the VA's check-in process? No, if anything I would say the va does it better. A lot of places only have one way to check in. 
- If you had a magic wand and you could check in for your appointment any way you would like, what would that experience look like? It would be like checking in on the phone. I guess maybe having a say on how many minutes they come and get you before the appointment.
- Notifications as well to check in: Yeah either push or text message would be great. If something pops up that the doctor is ready to see you would be pretty cool. 
  - What about if you could do all the check-in tasks that you can from the kiosk, but on your cell phone? I think I would prefer that. 
  - All or certain things: I would say all of it. I am not a huge fan of the paper route because of my handwriting. 
  - How would you expect to sign-in, in order to verify who you are, so you can check-in on your cell phone on va.gov? there would be a link on the portion of my HealtheVet. 
  - Additional comments: Um, no I think we covered it all. 
  - Way finding is important: yeah as long as I know I am in right place without asking that’s pretty nice. 

## Thank you and closing (2 minutes)
Well we really appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us and allowing us to learn more about the check-in process today. Your feedback is so helpful to us as we continue to work on improving the check-in experience.
Thank you so much again and enjoy the rest of your day!
