# Conversation Guide: Check-In (Veteran-Facing) Remote Discovery Research, P8
Start recording to the cloud.
- I have started recording. I'd like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record my screen and audio as we talk today?” Yes. 
Great. Now we're really ready to begin!

## Warm-up Questions/General Check-in Questions - (10 minutes)
To get started, I’d like to get a little background information about you.
- How many in-person appointments have you had since the beginning of the pandemic/COVID-19? 1
Now, I’m going to ask you to think about your very last medical appointment that you actually went to the VA facility for.
  - How did you schedule your last in-person medical appointment? Did you go online, talk to someone in-person at the VA, call, etc.? It was scheduled months before. It was scheduled through the CBOC. It was done while I was there at the clinic. 
    - Is that how you typically schedule in-person appointments? I do most of them online, I request a referral through the clinic. 
    - Secure message or online scheduling: I use secure message most of the time. 
    - Has your method for scheduling changed since COVID began? No. 
  - How do you keep track of your upcoming appointments? I put them on my calendar and appointment book but I also check through MyHeatheVet. 
 -  How did you check-in for your appointment? I used the kiosk and checked in. It was at the va in Nashville TN. 
    - Overall, how would you describe that check-in experience? Was it a good or bad experience? Easy or hard? It is easy. 
      - What did you like about it? I am computer savvy and it is quicker than standing in line. Then when I get to the clinic I tell them I checked in online and that’s it. 
      - What did you not like about it? no
    - How has checking in for an appointment changed with COVID-19? There’s very few appointments made but I do check in at the clinic. They take your temperature outside of the VA and then you wear a mask. You have your appointment, it is slower, they are much more cautious. 
      - Did you have to complete a form before entering the facility? If yes, probe on if it was something completed in advance/on their mobile device/paper/something else.
  - After you checked-in, how did you know where to go next? Where were you directed to go: you wait until they call you.
  - Kiosk in the waiting room not the lobby: at my clinic is it like a lobby waiting room. 
  - Which check-in method do you use most often? This could be using the kiosk, talking directly with VA staff, using text messaging , or how your access virtual appointments I normally check in where the appointment is. 
  - Have you ever had a check-in experience go wrong at the VA? Not in the last 14 years. 

## Virtual appointments (5 minutes)
- How many virtual appointments have you had since the beginning of the pandemic/COVID-19? 1
  - If they’ve had at least one…
    - How do you check in for a virtual appointment? On the phone similar to how we did this. 
    - How was it starting the appointment: the CBOC initiated it. 
    - Email or logged in: they called me. Phone. 
      - How do you interact with medical staff like nurses? Very briefly. She called and told me what was going to happen then the doctor was on. It waws like getting my annual physical but only on the phone. They asked me about symptoms, how I was doing with this or that. 
      - Nurses ask about medication: no that was with the doctor. 
      - Did you need to fill out anything ahead of time? No because I only had that one call and then I had retinal scans by telemedicine and that’s it. 
        - How far in advance of your appointment do you fill it out?
    - Is there anything else we should know about checking in to virtual appointment? Not that I can think of. 

## Kiosk (25 minutes)
- If they didn’t mention a kiosk above, confirm that they have utilized these machines. Have you ever used one of the check-in kiosk machines at the VA? I normally use my card. 
  - Why do you prefer other methods for check-in?
  - If no or yes (so everyone)...
    - I'm going to show you a series of tasks that can currently be completed on the kiosk. I'm interested in your feedback on them. I'm also interested in hearing how you complete these tasks. (Prototype: https://preview.uxpin.com/c466c519812f0c48fa2c4e0e25d0a9e703dce5b3#/pages/137806822?mode=cvhidm)
      - First, we'll pretend you are checking in for your appointment with your primary care provider.
        - Does this look familiar? I normally use my card. 
        - Do you go to multiple different VA locations?
          - If yes, does the check-in experience differ at each location?
            - Is one experience better or worse than the other? Why?
        - Have you ever been asked additional questions compared to what I just showed you when checking-in via the kiosk?
          - What were the questions?
          - What type of appointments were they for?
          - Have you ever updated your contact information on the kiosk? No. 
          - Thoughts: I wouldn’t bother me at all, for some people without computers that would be simple. I have done it through MyHeatheVet. 
        - Any other way: I have when I gone in, I notified them of a new cellphone number. I told the clinic and they updated it.
        - Additional questions: it shows my DOB, SSN and I have to put that in to verify that it is be. That’s it, you just need to verify it is actually you. 
      - Next, we'll look at checking in for a lab test.
        - Have you ever had a lab test at the VA? No, I do all of it at the CBOC and they don’t have the kiosk. 
        - Process: after they take your temperature you talk to the clerk and you’re here for you appointment. They check you in and you sit in the waiting room.  
        - What are your thoughts about this workflow? That would be like the pharmacy in TN. It is easy to use. 
      - Now, we'll check in for pharmacy
       - Have you ever interacted with the Pharmacy at the VA? I have picked up new medication, normally they are mailed. That is exactly what it says, you take the ticket and wait until they call it. 
          - If yes, what was the experience like? Sometimes it takes awhile before they call you but I don’t mind. 
      - Now, we'll update your next of kin
        - Have you ever updated your Next of Kin at the VA? No. 
        - Updated it in anyway at the va: I am trying to think. I don’t believe so. 
        - What are your thoughts on this workflow? For those without a computer it would be helpful. For me I wouldn’t bother about it because I do it all online. 
      - Lastly, we'll file a Beneficiary Travel Mileage request
        - [Click "Beneficiary Travel Mileage"]
        - Have you ever filed for Beneficiary Travel Mileage? Yes I have. I have done it on the kiosk and the next time they had the old forms because the kiosk wasn’t working. 
          - If yes, what was the experience like: Yupp. That’s true. That is what I have done before. 
          - Preference: the kiosk is much quicker. I prefer that when it’s working.
          - Travel office or doctors clinic: I have never claimed it at the local clinic but the kiosk for travel pay is at the travel office. 
    - If the Veteran answered yes, they have used the kiosk...
      - Have you used the kiosk for anything else that I haven’t asked you about yet? I don’t think so I don’t recall any. 
      - What would you would like to change about the kiosks? 

## (Could skip) In-person (5 minutes)
- If they didn’t mention in-person check-in above, Have you ever checked-in by just talking to a VA staff members? 
  - If yes,
    - When do you use that method of checking in? it is because the kiosk isn’t working so you need to go up and check in to where you are going. Generally speaking they have asked us to let the clerk know that you checked in on the kiosk. So you have that interaction and then you sit and wait 2 hours for everyone’s 10asm appointment. 
    - Are you normally checking in at a centralized location or a specific clinic/doctor’s office?
    - What questions do they ask you? They always ask the last 4 and name. Then in my case they need my first name because there’s 3 people with the last four then I have a seat. 
    - What paperwork do you fill out? When I had my first treatment for depression yes. Then once a year after that they hand me one, other than that no. 
    - What do you like about checking in via VA staff member? What could be improved? No I would say I have been using the va since 74. I have only had 4 negative experiences in that time. They could use more clerks. I have seen the lines as long as 10-15 people. 

## (Could skip) Via text message (“I am here” system) (5 minutes)
- If they didn’t mention text message check-in above, Have you ever checked-in via text message (maybe from your car in the parking lot)? No
  - If yes,
    - When do you choose that method of checking in? Why?
    - Can you describe how checking-in via text message works?
    - What did you like about that experience? What could be improved?

## Wrap-up questions (4 minutes)
- Do you receive any of your healthcare from outside the VA?I have had outside providers that make it more complicated. You have to fill something out each time. It takes longer to check in. the va as a whole is more efficient. I choose to sue the VA; I have health insurance. 
- If you had a magic wand and you could check in for your appointment any way you would like, what would that experience look like? The kiosk is the way I would prefer to go. 
  - What about if you could do all the check-in tasks that you can from the kiosk, but on your cell phone? I think it might work but they need safeguard so others can’t checking with your ID. I could see that being helpful. I probably wouldn’t use it but I might. It would depend on if I am running late. I think it could be useful, I might be willing to try that. 
  - Why not text but this is interesting: I think I would want to initiate it instead of the va contacting me. You don’t always know who is calling, if I call the number to check in by text that’s fine. If I just received something telling me to check in I may not do that
  - What about form my HealtheVet: online fine, by phone no. 
  - How would you expect to sign-in, in order to verify who you are, so you can check-in on your cell phone on va.gov? I would rather just use the  kiosk but if I had to do it online I would use my computer or notebook. I would want them to ask my last 4, DOB, and place of birth because not many people know where I was born. 
  - Additional: some VA’s have you check in at the main desk and that was complicated because other veterans were asking questions. At times they checked me in to the wrong clinic. It is best with the kiosk. Some VA’s they use to make everyone check in at the main desk with the volunteer and then had to answer questions from everyone so only god knows what went into the computer at times. Not experienced recently. I was scheduled for a OBGYN and I am not a female so. They have improved the system greatly; it could be hep for those that aren’t computer savvy if they had cheat sheets so they know how to use it. often it is the older vets without computer experience and they confused quickly on that system. 

## Thank you and closing (2 minutes)
Well we really appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us and allowing us to learn more about the check-in process today. Your feedback is so helpful to us as we continue to work on improving the check-in experience.
Thank you so much again and enjoy the rest of your day!
