# Conversation Guide: Check-In (Veteran-Facing) Remote Discovery Research, P9
Start recording to the cloud.
- I have started recording. I'd like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record my screen and audio as we talk today?” Yes, I am. 
Great. Now we're really ready to begin!

## Warm-up Questions/General Check-in Questions - (10 minutes)
To get started, I’d like to get a little background information about you.
- How many in-person appointments have you had since the beginning of the pandemic/COVID-19? 3. 
Now, I’m going to ask you to think about your very last medical appointment that you actually went to the VA facility for.
  - How did you schedule your last in-person medical appointment? Did you go online, talk to someone in-person at the VA, call, etc.? They called me. .
    - Is that how you typically schedule in-person appointments? In this case it was because of the COVID vaccine and wanted to make sure I received the second dose.  I get a call the day of or before to remind me and they also text me.
    - Before it has been scheduled, how do you schedule: I have to call and get it setup myself.
    - Online or in office: I try to do it in the office, I try to do it in the office. Myhealthevet doesn’t always work correct so there is difficulty with that program. 
    - Secure message: it is about setting up the ques. I have went away because I’d rather get on the phone because it is easier or before I leave the clinic I will make sure there is one scheduled. 
    - Has your method for scheduling changed since COVID began? They aren’t see many because of covid, my next appointment is Monday for blood then the next Monday for the doctor. 
  - How do you keep track of your upcoming appointments? I have a calendar on my phone and I put it on there. I also go to my HealtheVet to look at the appointments so I can track them. 
  - Notifications: I get a letter, text, and then once in a  great while I will get an email reminding me I have an appointment at the va. 
  - How did you check-in for your appointment? 15 minutes before, you use the kiosk only to check in rather than checking in with a person
    - Overall, how would you describe that check-in experience? Was it a good or bad experience? Easy or hard? I have no issues with he system, I put my card in and my information pops up.
      - What did you like about it?  It is faster. 
      - What did you not like about it? it is in personable. 
    - How has checking in for an appointment changed with COVID-19? Not really. They had started the use of the kiosk pre covid. They had a person come down from Tuscan and showed us how to use the machine. 
      - Did you have to complete a form before entering the facility? No. 
  - After you checked-in, how did you know where to go next? Where were you directed to go: Pretty much the appointment tells you on the screen that the appointment is which the clinic, then you go to that waiting area. 
  - Directions: It doesn’t give directions
  - How to do you know how together: you can ask the employees and they are helpful. Here in Yuma you can through a stone to clinic to clinic. The kiosk is in the lobby. 
  - Closely connected to the clinic: Over in Tuscan at the actual medical center yes. One in each clinic, one in the pharma cy. They are all over the place. If you are in the wrong place it will tell you
  - Have you ever had a check-in experience go wrong at the VA? Yes here they lost me in the system. They had me listed as someone else. The last 4 of my SSN but the wrong name. 

## Virtual appointments (5 minutes)
- How many virtual appointments have you had since the beginning of the pandemic/COVID-19? About 6. 
  - If they’ve had at least one…
    - How do you check in for a virtual appointment? They sent me a link and I click it 5 minutes before and then the doctor comes on.
      - How do you interact with medical staff like nurses? No, actually I haven’t. 
      - Did you need to fill out anything ahead of time? No
      - Email link: Yes. 
    - Is there anything else we should know about checking in to virtual appointment? Actually it is very easy, I think more people could benefit from telemed. The hospital from here to Tuscan is 280 miles. That is a long desert drive so virtual appointments is advantageous for them as well as the doctors. 

## Kiosk (25 minutes)
- If they didn’t mention a kiosk above, confirm that they have utilized these machines. Have you ever used one of the check-in kiosk machines at the VA?
  - If no…
    - Have you ever seen them in a VA location?
  - If yes,
    - Why do you prefer other methods for check-in?
  - If no or yes (so everyone)...
    - I'm going to show you a series of tasks that can currently be completed on the kiosk. I'm interested in your feedback on them. I'm also interested in hearing how you complete these tasks. (Prototype: https://preview.uxpin.com/c466c519812f0c48fa2c4e0e25d0a9e703dce5b3#/pages/137806822?mode=cvhidm)
      - First, we'll pretend you are checking in for your appointment with your primary care provider.
        - Does this look familiar? Yes, I normally use my card. I have enters my DOB and SSN before as well. I just do the card; it is much easier. 
        - Do you go to multiple different VA locations? Yes
          - If yes, does the check-in experience differ at each location? No, all of them are the same. 
        - Have you ever been asked additional questions compared to what I just showed you when checking-in via the kiosk?
          - What were the questions?
          - What type of appointments were they for?
          - Have you ever updated your contact information on the kiosk? Yes, I just click continue because nothing has changed.
          - Update it ever at the va: One time and that’s when we first moved to Yuma 6 years ago. That was in person at the Tuscan VA. It was with the admin office.  It was easy enough. 
          - Insurance: Yes. No I am covered under Medicare.  
        - Additional questions: no. 
      - Next, we'll look at checking in for a lab test.
        - Now, you are checked in for a lab test.
        - Have you ever had a lab test at the VA? No, this will be my first time. 
        - What are your thoughts about this workflow? It may make it easier. 
        - Compare: well you don’t need to stand in line to wait for someone to make or check in for an appointment, you could just check in with the kiosk, it is more streamline. 
      - Now, we'll check in for pharmacy
        - Have you ever interacted with the Pharmacy at the VA? No, I haven’t. Mine is mailed to me. 
        - What are your thoughts on this workflow? I always see it packed so I have them mailed to me it is much easier. If you have questions you can send a secure message or to refill go to refill and sent. Then they mail it to you. Everything is done online. 
      - Now, we'll update your next of kin
        - Have you ever updated your Next of Kin at the VA? Yes, I have not updated. It has been the same for 30 some odd years. 
        - What are your thoughts on this workflow? It is a good ideal if people take time to do it. the only thing is I know people that cannot do it on a keyboard, for some reason their hands don’t work or cant work the keyboard. For me it is great. For older vets I think they need to do it with an admin clerk or something. 
        - Online: right. 
      - Lastly, we'll file a Beneficiary Travel Mileage request
        - [Click "Beneficiary Travel Mileage"]
        - Have you ever filed for Beneficiary Travel Mileage? I have filed but I never do it on the kiosk, I have the form done and I do it on the computer with me and when I am done I sign and date it then hand it to the travel office. I print and bring it with me. It is better that way. 
        - What are your thoughts on this workflow? In this case I prefer to give someone a piece of paper so I know they got it. I have been there submitting my form and their kiosks are broken. So they end up filling it out and handing it in anyway.
        - What about online from home: if I have to go to Tuscan I always make sure it is ready. Paper is best. 
  - If the Veteran answered yes, they have used the kiosk...
    - Have you used the kiosk for anything else that I haven’t asked you about yet? No, checking in and appointments. 
    - What would you would like to change about the kiosks? That is a tough questions, I think they need to make sure they will be in service. If you have 3 and only one is working. Then one for people that are in wheelchairs. I think they need to maintain them or call someone to get it working. 

## (Could skip) In-person (5 minutes)
- If they didn’t mention in-person check-in above, Have you ever checked-in by just talking to a VA staff members?
  - If yes,
    - When do you use that method of checking in? Why? When the kiosks are broke down so we stand in line and wait until the clerk calls you to check in. 
    - Are you normally checking in at a centralized location or a specific clinic/doctor’s office?
    - What questions do they ask you? Last name and last 4 of your SSN. 
    - What paperwork do you fill out? No
    - What do you like about checking in via VA staff member? What could be improved? It is the personal contact if you have a good clerk. Then you get others that don’t know what they are doing or don’t have their gallon of coffee yet.
    - What else should I know about your experience checking in by talking to staff members? Some of them have an attitude, they are here for us veterans and a lot of them are veterans, it is how they speak to people it is condescending. 
    - Additional comments: no. 

## (Could skip) Via text message (“I am here” system) (5 minutes)
- If they didn’t mention text message check-in above, Have you ever checked-in via text message (maybe from your car in the parking lot)? Nope. 
- What do you think: it depends on the phone you have. They send me the text for the appointment, for yes send Y to respond but wont send. I think there may be something wrong with the system, it was for the appointment here in town to confirm. It will tell me message not sent. 
- If it would work, feelings about the text: I prefer to check in inside. 

## Wrap-up questions (4 minutes)
- Do you receive any of your healthcare from outside the VA?
  - If yes...
    - What does the check-in process look like at the other facilities that you go to? How does it compare to the VA's check-in process? YMRC the hospital here has a lot of clinics. I needed a CT scan and their process you go in, provide name, then call you. You ask is you have insurance or if your information is in the computer they tell you to go to the area and have a seat then they will call. it is similar but ever time they want to review if you have insurance. 
    - Anything the va should do: no. I think the clerks at the va should ask some of the vets, do you have other insurance other than va or Medicare. Some of them have supplemental policies. If va is going to bill it than fine but if not forget it. 
- If you had a magic wand and you could check in for your appointment any way you would like, what would that experience look like? I wouldn’t have to go there and they would come to me. I will still with the kiosk. 
- Home visits: yes or telemed. I really like it; the only thing is there’s not way to screen your vital med. There isn’t a nurse asking you how you feel or asking your temperature. You don’t know your vital signs are, that is in person. The clinic or primary care, that’s why in person for primary care is important so they can ask about the flu shoot. They can see what you are do for in the computer but telemed they cant do that. 
  - What about if you could do all the check-in tasks that you can from the kiosk, but on your cell phone? I am not much for using my phone other than calls or a text to someone I know intimately. 
  - Questionnaires before hand and sent prior: that I would do, yeah. If it is a fillable PDF no issues. 
  - How would you expect to sign-in, in order to verify who you are, so you can check-in on your cell phone on va.gov? Again your last name, last 4, then prompt for DOB. Maybe your SSN. Only stuff you should know. 

## Thank you and closing (2 minutes)
Well we really appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us and allowing us to learn more about the check-in process today. Your feedback is so helpful to us as we continue to work on improving the check-in experience.
Thank you so much again and enjoy the rest of your day!
