- [Engineering Resync about trigger](#engineering-resync-about-trigger)
  - [Summary](#summary)
    - [For the text/email/notification](#for-the-textemailnotification)
    - [For our system's trigger](#for-our-systems-trigger)
  - [Outstanding Questions](#outstanding-questions)
  - [Action Items](#action-items)
  - [Raw Notes](#raw-notes)

# Engineering Resync about trigger

- Attendees: Dillo Raju, Mark Dewey, Stephen Barrs

## Summary

### For the text/email/notification

- VA Notify/VAText will send the user a static link to the quesitonnaire list.
  - Use Case: Only send a link when a user has a [appointment type] appointment at [location]
  - That system can already handle our use case

### For our system's trigger

*question* How will our system (Health Quest know that a veteran has a questionnaire to fill out?

- [Based on our latest idea](./../01.using.fhir.4.md), We will use the use context
- We will store the facility and clinic in the context of a questionnaire
- This questionnaire will be in PGD, as a Questionnaire Resource, query-able from other sources
  - Such as VETText, AVS, or even MyHealth EVet
- When a user loads our form, the front end will send facility and clinic to the API to get the correct questionnaire. The API will then query PGD with the facility and clinic id to get the current status of the veterans' questionnaire.
- The Questionnaire is needed for the questionnaire response resources creation
  - Currently we just need the Id,
  - Moon shot: dynamically create the form based on the Questionnaire
- By storing the Questionnaire in PGD, other system, such as AVS can access the questionnaire, the status of a patients questionnaire

-

## Outstanding Questions

*these are the agenda for the next meeting on 01/13/2021

- For MVP what is the number of questionnaires for an appointment?
- What is does the URL look like for multiple questionnaires for he same appointment?
- What does the Questionnaire ID and how and what do we query for it?
- What values are we going to store in the Questionnaire resources?

## Action Items

- [ ] Schedule a meeting to answer the above questions

## Raw Notes

Va notify will send out a link to the questionnaire list

no interations with the VA Notify

they have some job that queries for appointments in

questionnaire contains a use context
-

QR contains a pointer to the Q
-

AVS will connect to Lighthouse and query  for the QR and Q based an on a agreeable id

UI will pass the X Y Z for the back end to get the questionnaires.
  what are are X Y Z

  How do we know a Veteran has a Questionnaire to fill out?
VEText sends appt reminders and includes link to Questionnaire manager page
How does VEText know what facility and clinics are included in pilot?
Local VEText config file?
Questionnaire Resource
Use Context with
Location Resource
Organization Resource
I think these Resources will be used to represent Facility and Clinic
QuestionnaireResponse Resource
How do consumers find a specific QR?
meta data includes Appt ID
Future state is to use Appt and Encounter Resource
Clinicians will use AVS to see QRs.  
AVS will extract appointment ID from appointment object from VIstA and use that to query LH PGD for QRs associated with that appointment

Discuss Questionnaire resource for MVP(next time)

11:44
vetext -> watch for new appointment -> check PGD for associated Questionnaires -> check if QuestionnaireResponses have been created -> send text message.
