#P1

I have started recording. I'd like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record my screen and the audio as we talk today? Yes ma’am. 

## Warm-up Questions - 10 minutes
Now, I’m going to ask you to think about your last VA medical appointment where you spoke to the physician over the phone.

- What was the type of appointment, such as primary care, cardiology, dermatology, etc.? It was a specialty appointment yesterday. 
- How did you schedule this appointment? It was a follow up and after the last appointment they tell you they’ll see you in 3 months then someone calls to schedule. 
- In person prior: no it has been over the phone. 
- Did anyone (possibly a nurse) call you prior to the appointment to ask you questions? No they didn’t I had to call them because I didn’t get the link. I already had it in my schedule but I checked my email and didn’t get the link so she had to send me the link. 
- Appointment yesterday over zoom: yes a VVC. 
- Appointment over the phone: 4 months ago. 
- Someone call you prior to the appointment to ask questions: yeah they just called to remind me that the call would be coming up and if it were okay to do it over the phone. 
- A few days prior to appointment: yes like 2 days before. 
- Other questions other than confirming the appointment: no it was just to confirm the appointment. 
- Did you receive any reminder messages about this appointment? Yeah I get the text messages. I signed up for that and you need to respond yes or no. 
- When did you get text: 2 days prior to the confirmation call. 
- Only SMS text no other notifications: yes only text. 
- Can you describe the day of the appointment? I have them call on my cellphone because it is easier for me to move about, they called right before it was scheduled to start. They ask who you are and verify the DOB and email. They cant see you so they need to verify. And the last 4. When they do it on the video connect you need to put in the home address and everything. 
- Person that called asked  same infomraiton: it was the provider and yes. 
  - Was it on your personal mobile phone, landline, or work phone? Cell phone, preferred contact because it gets less people calling in as in telemarketers. I put my [phone on do not disturb. 
    - If it was on your mobile phone, do you recall if it was a general phone number or a private number?
  - What types of questions do the medical professionals (such as a doctor) ask at the start of your telephone appointments? For instance, do they review your list of medications?   No because they have my profile up and they just ask if I am still taking this or that. 
  - Confirming as you go: yes. 
- If you need to cancel or reschedule your telephone appointment, how do you normally do that? I would usually call in to cancel but we recently have been having classes with th3e visor on how to go into my HealtheVet so I leave messages for the provider through secure messenger as well if it is far enough out I will say I need to cancel then reschedule. If it is closer I try to call the clinic to let them know. 
- What do you like about medical appointments completed over the telephone? This provider is attentive and not monotone. She cares and I like the fact it is like a personal call and not going through the motions. She cares about how you are doing and I like it but I like it better when you can see her face and smile. It makes a difference because you can tell she likes what she does. They have to type everything in when you go in but with zoom it is more like you can see her reactions and it is more personal. 
- Anything else: the phone appointment is a good follow up. One was a diet appointment to see how I was and what I was eating so that’s fine but for my counseling it was important to be done in person. Once I got to know the provider and they got to know me it was okay to do it over the phone.
- Phone is okay for follow up but when needing the deeper interaction want face to face but once known it is okay: Exactly. 
- What problems have you run into before, during or after a telephone appointment? Um during losing connection. With a phone appointment the only issue is when you call and not in a private place. Even when I am home the dog will be barking and you cant here. It’s convenient when in a closed room but when home and on a phone theres a lot of background noise. Sometimes someone will go in the providers room and interrupt. there are more interruptions but after covid continued it stopped because they made changes to stop that. 
- Last appointment you were walking the dog: yes. Even with the video I could do that. I like that because you can keep doing what you are. I live in Fredericksburg so the bus comes takes me to the va so for a 30 minute appointment it takes 8 hours of my day so the phone appointment is more convenient. 

## First Task: Happy path for pre-check-in for a telephone appointment - 30 minutes
### SMS and first pass through the first pre-check-in workflow
At this point, I would like you to share your screen, so we can see the text too. Try to complete the task that the SMS is asking you about. I will just observe you as you try to complete it. I'll ask you questions later. Talk-aloud as you complete the task. Share your thoughts.

I would put Y1 to confirm then click enter but I don’t see where I can do it. then I put it is and confirm it. Now to click on the link. (reading page) I type in the last name, DOB, it is a drop down. Continue. (reading page) okay I would start here to answer questions. It has my mailing/home address. It is verifying my contact infomration is correct. This is a demo so I would click yes. Then it is verifying the emergency contact and next of kin. It says the provider will call and you may need to wait 15 minutes for their call. tis asking me to get travel pay, manage  appointment. it is asking me to sign in to update contact information online or call in. I don’t need to do anything is there. You are prechecked in and waiting to be called by the provider. My one question is that I am visually impaired and most of the people are blind, could we do this over voice over. I have some vision but I could see how people that do not have vision it would be hard for them to do. 

### Second pass through the first pre-check-in workflow
Now, I'm going to have you go back through the exercise again. This time I'll ask you some questions at each point in the process.

**Text**
- What are your thoughts about what the text is asking you to do? I think it is clear, to me it is. I would just click the link and go from there. 

**Identity verification page**
- Can you explain to me what we're looking at?
- What are your thoughts about what this page is asking you?
- Is there anything missing?

**Introduction page**
- What are your thoughts about the information shared with you on this page? Okay I am glad it says phone call because when we first started we didn’t know how it would be and it has the time and the clinic. That information is great. The only thing is the purple clinic I would assume it is for my primary care because it is the purple clinic. It would be good to put the type of appointment it is because just having the providers name I wouldn’t know what the appointment is for. 
- More helpful if the name for clinic was more specific: yes. 
- Is there anything missing? Maybe when it says the provider will call you, I am thinking I would put if they are going to call on the cell phone or landline because as visually impaired if it doesn’t say who’s calling I don’t pick up. 
- If you don’t have the clarity you may be inclined not to pick up: exactly. 

**Contact information**
- Are there any other pieces of contact information that you would like to review on this page? Um, No I think that would be it. 
- Ideally, which phone number would you like a provider to call you at? My mobile phone, it would be good to put mobile primary contact. 
- On this page: Yes because some providers will ask where you want to be contacted but my other provider said they were leaving messages on my home phone so they couldn’t get in contact for me. I got to the appointment and she said that they called me this morning and it was cancelled. She said they called me on my home phone and I have to leave 2 hours before my appointment. I asked why didn’t they call my mobile phone, it was a waste of resources because we were 5 minutes away from the VA when I was notified when they could have called my mobile and I had it with me. 

**Confirmation page**
- What are your thoughts about this page? I know some people get confused I would write out ET as Eastern Time. I don’t know if everyone would pick up on what it is. (reading page) again I think this is self-explanatory for me but again if its not voice over then it would be hard for some. 
  - What do you think happens when you click on the "Get travel pay"? I would think it would popup how to get the travel pay and to put in the infomraiton to get it. the way it looks now that you say that it doesn’t look like a link so some may not know to click on it so I would pout click on links below. The older vets aren’t tech savvy so they may just read it and not know to click on it to get to another page. 
  - What do you think happens when you click on "Sign in to manage all appointments"? Um, I think it would bring up my appointments if you sign in. Looking from what I know how It would list appointments not let me change or make appointments. I know we have been working with my HealtheVet and we can’t do it now with the app. Yesterday we learned a lot of out appointments aren’t showing up. 
  - See it but cant make changes: right ,like cancel it. 
  - What do you think happens when you click on "Check in to another appointment"? I would hesitate to check into another appointment because it could mess up the appointment that you are waiting for, you should finish the one that you are on then check in to the next, maybe the provider calls and then you don’t answer the other one so you Amy miss the other appointment. 
- What are your thoughts on the order of the information on this page? I don’t think travel pay would be first because you need to finish your appointment then go to travel pay. You shouldn’t be able to apply for travel until your appointment is done and until you signed in. 
- Anyhthing else: I think sign in for appointments should eb first then check in to another appointment because you could have more than one in a day then travel pay last. 

## Second Task: Non-happy path for pre-check-in for a telephone appointment - 30 minutes
Imagine it’s the morning of your appointment, and you decide to click on the link in a text you received a few days ago. You see this page [ show the ‘after midnight /before appointment’ error page]

- What are your thoughts about this page? (reading page) You are asking if I am confirming it on the same day. I would still go down and press Y to confirm. But then for me I would call the 909 number to let them know I just confirmed the appointment just to verify that they know I will be able to make the appointment. 
- Information: I type in the last name, DOB, then continue. 
- Why do you think you are seeing this page? I think that because it is to close to the appointment time. I guess theres a certain amount of time that they check the precheck. Maybe because its to close and I waited to long I am see it and it is not longer available. 
- What would be the next thing that you do related to your appointment? Wait for my appointment, here it says the provider will call me but I would look at what is pre-check in to see what they wanted me to do since it is no longer available. 

## Post-Task Interview - 9 minutes
- Now that you've seen an example of what this pre-check-in experience for telephone appointments could look like, what are your overall impressions? The first thing is positive because a lot of time infomraiton is wrong or changed like I wanted my cellphone listed as primary so I would be able to check it. it also saves time for the provider so it would already be verified. I think it is good for the person because the provider my verify but they say it so fast that its wrong. 
- Do you think you’d want to complete these updates on a mobile phone or desktop?
- If you could change one thing about the experience, what would it be? Voice over, I would love to see how it would work. If it is with the telephone I would want to know how it would work with voice over. Like while you wait for the provider you can do check in with voice over and you wouldn’t need a caregiver or have the provider verify the infomraiton due to visually impaired. It doesn’t seem like it would work for people with hand issues or visual impairments. 
- Work with voice over: yes. 
- Do you have any other thoughts on what we talked about today?
- Any questions for me?

## Thank-You and Closing - 3 minutes
Well we really appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us today. Your feedback is so helpful to us as we continue to work on the site and make sure it really works for Veterans.

Thanks! Lastly, do you know any other Veterans, caregivers, or service members who might be willing to participate in a future user research session? If Yes: Thank you! I'll have our team send you an email with a little blurb that you can pass along.

Great, well thank you so much again, and enjoy the rest of your day!
