# P11

Start recording.
- I have started recording. I'd like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record my screen and the audio as we talk today? Yes Ma’am. 

## Warm-up Questions - 10 minutes
Now, I’m going to ask you to think about your last VA medical appointment where you spoke to the physician over the phone.
- What was the type of appointment, such as primary care, cardiology, dermatology, etc.? Primary care
- How did you schedule this appointment? Over the phone
  - Was it a follow-up from an earlier appointment? Uh, I think it was the annual physical. I have high blood pressure and it was a follow up call 6 months after the last to see how my blood pressure was doing. 
- Did anyone (possibly a nurse) call you prior to the appointment to ask you questions? Yes, they leave a message on my voice mail. They just said pressed a number, it was a text to type Y to confirm the appointment. 
- Did you receive any reminder messages about this appointment?
  - What type(s) of reminders?
- Can you describe the day of the appointment:
  - Who called who? I called to make the appointment. It was fine. I went to see him to renew the prescription and he said come back in 3 months, I made the appointment to see him to see how I was doing. The day prior to the appointment the text asked me to confirm. I went to the appointment. 
  - Did you actually have to go in or was it over the phone: I had an over the phone appointment to renew the prescription and gave the record of my blood pressure, they changed the prescription dose and he told me to call him to make an appointment. We went over the shots as well and he set me up for the covid shot. I am trying to think if I called him, oh he sent me a notice that he would call me so he called me. 
  - Was it on your personal mobile phone, landline, or work phone? Mobile phone. 
    - If it was on your mobile phone, do you recall if it was a general phone number or a private number? It said VA. 
  - What types of questions do the medical professionals (such as a doctor) ask at the start of your telephone appointments? For instance, do they review your list of medications? He asked how I was doing, I told him I needed refills and asked me how many I had left. I had a week left. I gave him a list of my blood pressure readings, asked how I was feeling and that was it. he just went over my record basically. I can’t remember every detail; it was about my general health. 
  - Ever receive a call from the va at an unexpected number: yes they called to make an appointment but I was busy. 
  - Did they call the landline: they called my mobile phone but I wasn’t able to answer so they left a message. 
- If you need to cancel or reschedule your telephone appointment, how do you normally do that? I do it on my iPad. It is the myhealthevet. 
  - Ideally, how would you like to cancel or reschedule? I normally do it online and then I usually call to reschedule. That’s fine. 
- What do you like about medical appointments completed over the telephone? Just the follow up and them letting me know the day prior. I normally put it in my phone with reminders so I don’t make other appointments. 
- What problems have you run into before, during or after a telephone appointment? None. 
- What could be improved? Not that I can think of, since I have been with the va I haven’t had any problems. 

## First Task: Happy path for pre-check-in for a telephone appointment - 30 minutes
### SMS and first pass through the first pre-check-in workflow
At this point, I would like you to share your screen, so we can see the text too. Try to complete the task that the SMS is asking you about. I will just observe you as you try to complete it. I'll ask you questions later. Talk-aloud as you complete the task. Share your thoughts.

I clicked Y1 to confirm (reading page) then it has a link for pre-check in. Albright it says answer pre-check in questions. Pressed start, do you want me to put in my correct infomration. Okay. Is that it. 
### Second pass through the first pre-check-in workflow
Now, I'm going to have you go back through the exercise again. This time I'll ask you some questions at each point in the process.

**Pre-check-in Text (second text with link to pre-check-in)**
- What are your thoughts about what the text is asking you to do? Just um to make sure infomration is correct and to make sure I understand the appointment date/time. It is relatively simple; I think it is really simple. 
- Would you add or remove anything from this text messages? Not really. 

**Introduction page**
- Can you explain to me what we're looking at? Uh. Just telling me know the date/time of the appointment and at which clinic. It just confirmed my appointment letting me know the provider will call me and it is very simple to me. 
- Is there anything missing? No not really. 
- Anything else that would be helpful: No. 

**Contact information**
- What are your thoughts about what this page is asking you? Just to confirm my addresses are the same, contact numbers are the same. It Saud if I need help, it provides a number to get help through it. 
- Are there any other pieces of contact information that you would like to review on this page? Uh, no. 
- Is there anything missing or would you change anything? 
- Ideally, which phone number would you like a provider to call you at? Well I think I changed it at one time because they called my home phone. I rarely pick up my home phone due to spam calls, I changed it to my mobile and it is saved in my phone. They send me emails; I don’t get a lot but when they do it comes through. 
- Good at calling the mobile phone after change: yes
- Did you remove the home phone: no I still have the landline. 
- what would you do if you noticed your address is wrong because you just moved? I would go into my HealtheVet and let them know. I would call them to let them know its changed then go online to see if it were changed and if not I would change it. 
- what if you got this before an appointment, would that change anything: I would still call. Normally what I do, I went in person to make an appointment and they asked if it were correct. They do a wonderful job at keeping the infomraiton current, I just do a follow up to make sure it is correct. 

**Confirmation page**
- What are your thoughts about this page? Showing me the appointment, primary doctor will call and you need to wait at least 15  minutes. I don’t understand that I haven’t seen it. The provider will call but you may need to wait for 15 minutes prior to their call. I don’t understand it. 
- Ever have to wait for the doctor to call: No I haven’t needed to wait for them. The one time I called them he scheduled the phone conference, sent me an email saying it was scheduled for phone conference. I checked my email and he called me because I missed his first call. I never had issues.
- How to update infomration section: This lets you know because things change day to day. It directs you on how to change it
- What happens if you click sign in: It would take me to my HealtheVet. 
- Once you submit these questions, who do you expect will have access to the answers that you entered?
  - Is it what you were expecting or not expecting?
- Is there any other information we should include here?
- What do you do now that you have completed pre-check-in?
  - Would you want to navigate anywhere else? Why or why not?
  - What would be the next thing that you do related to your appointment?
- What other tasks could you do on this page?
  - What are your thoughts on these tasks? 
  - What do you think happens when you click on the "Get travel pay"?
  - What do you think happens when you click on "Sign in to manage all appointments"? It will take me to myhealthevet. 
  - Rest of page: contact infomraiton you can sign in or call so that is good. Emergency or next of kin call. why I need to make sure why it’s up today, it lets you know the reason. I think it is good they try to keep the information current
  - What do you think happens when you click on "Check in to another appointment"?
- What do you think happens when you click on the “Log in" in the section "How can I update my information?"
- What are your thoughts on the order of the information on this page? No it’s clear, it tells you the appointment, date/time, and clinic. They tend to call the night before or send a text reminder to confirm. It is really clear. 
- Thinking of this as a phone call, being a phone appointment as the actual appointment: I have only had one with my doctor. I mean it was clear, they let me know in advance. I sent them an email to get refills, set up the conference call, got on the call, went over records, asked me how I was feeling, list my blood pressure and that was about it. 
- Okay, getting this prior to that appointment, would it change anything: no. 
- Anything missing or needs changed: no I cant even think of anything that I would have questions about. 
- What comes next: for me. I would just make sure everything is on my phone calendar to remind me. 

## Second Task: Non-happy path for pre-check-in for a telephone appointment - 30 minutes
Imagine it’s the morning of your appointment. You just remembered you were sent an SMS link about the appointment. You see this page, and you decide to complete the question it is asking you. Walk me through what you would do here.
- Why do you think you are seeing this page? It says pre-check in is no longer available. Something wrong with the system, normally when I had issues with the va it says try back later. I would say it is a system problem.  
- Scroll down and look at the grey bars: the one that says why can’t I pre-check in. (reading page) So if I got this at 3pm I would just go on and pre-check in. 
- Other information: (reading page)  Like I said once again they just want to make sure it is updated and correct so there aren’t mistakes as far as the information, they just want to keep it up to date and I think that’s good. 
- Is there anything missing or would you change anything? No I think it is good.

## Post-Task Interview - 9 minutes
- Now that you've seen an example of what this pre-check-in experience for telephone appointments could look like, what are your overall impressions? I have only used it once, it was good. I know my doctor pretty good and we have a good rapport so the phone conversation was just short of me seeing him personally. It was very thorough. 
- Thoughts of doing this experience: It is giving the insight of infomraiton and including the online  calls with the doctors. 
- Helpful: I think it would be helpful, I had an issue with my hip and I was going to make a call but it went away. Knowing I could make an online call, the only thing I can say its not like an urgent care, I might need to wait. One time I had to do it I had to send them an email and I had to check my email on and off. As far as an emergency it wouldn’t be affective I would go to the VA ER but routine medicine or questions like I said I haven’t had issues with the va since I have been enrolled. Everything they offer has been effective and easy to navigate. 
- What are your thoughts on calling the experience you just completed “pre-check-in”? no this is a pre-check in. I mean it is thorough and simple. 
- Can you describe why you would be interested or not interested in reviewing these items prior to your telephone appointment? no
- Are there any other items or information that you would like to review and update prior to your appointment? Um, no I can’t think of anything.
- Do you think you’d want to complete these updates on a mobile phone or desktop? I would want to use the iPad. It is easer to see and navigate on an iPad. 
- If you could change one thing about the experience, what would it be? Gosh I don’t know. I cant think of anything. If it isn’t broke don’t try to fix it. its fine to me. 
- Do you have any other thoughts on what we talked about today? It is worth time for me and I have only had one phone call with the doctors. I am healthy besides the blood pressure. It is user friendly and its fine. The times I have used it. the one time I used it, it was the first time and he called, I missed it and he called me right back. We had the appointment and he let me know when he wanted to see me again and that’s it. sorry I am so boring. 
- Any questions for me?

## Thank-You and Closing - 3 minutes
Well we really appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us today. Your feedback is so helpful to us as we continue to work on the site and make sure it really works for Veterans.

Thanks! Lastly, do you know any other Veterans, caregivers, or service members who might be willing to participate in a future user research session? If Yes: Thank you! I'll have our team send you an email with a little blurb that you can pass along.

Great, well thank you so much again, and enjoy the rest of your day!
