# P12
Start recording.
- I have started recording. I'd like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record my screen and the audio as we talk today? Yes. 

## Warm-up Questions - 10 minutes
Now, I’m going to ask you to think about your last VA medical appointment where you spoke to the physician over the phone.
- What was the type of appointment, such as primary care, cardiology, dermatology, etc.? Mental health. 
- How did you schedule this appointment? No they scheduled it for me. 
  - Was it a follow-up from an earlier appointment? yes. 
- Did anyone (possibly a nurse) call you prior to the appointment to ask you questions? No
- Did you receive any reminder messages about this appointment? yes I did. It was a mail reminder, post card. 
- Can you describe the day of the appointment:
  - Who called who? My provider called me over the phone. 
  - Was it on your personal mobile phone, landline, or work phone? It was a personal phone. Mobile phone. 
    - If it was on your mobile phone, do you recall if it was a general phone number or a private number? It was a general number I cant really remember. I believe I recognized it as the va number. 
  - What types of questions do the medical professionals (such as a doctor) ask at the start of your telephone appointments? For instance, do they review your list of medications? Am I okay with medications provided. The dosage if it were still working. They ask me how my day is and how I was doing. 
- If you need to cancel or reschedule your telephone appointment, how do you normally do that? I call in to the number and they cancel then reschedule the appointment
- Call the clinic or call the call center: it is the 800 number. That’s who I call. 
  - Ideally, how would you like to cancel or reschedule? Online, where I can go in real quick and knock it out. 
- What do you like about medical appointments completed over the telephone? Well for one since covid was happening the safety. The distance the traffic, I don’t need to deal with the traffic. 
- What problems have you run into before, during or after a telephone appointment? The schedule wasn’t kept. They said they would call me at 9 but they called me like 20 minutes after. Everything is during and after its fine. 
- What could be improved? Just to be on time, I am a time person. If I am waiting by the phone to ensure I do not miss it. 

## First Task: Happy path for pre-check-in for a telephone appointment - 30 minutes
### SMS and first pass through the first pre-check-in workflow
At this point, I would like you to share your screen, so we can see the text too. Try to complete the task that the SMS is asking you about. I will just observe you as you try to complete it. I'll ask you questions later. Talk-aloud as you complete the task. Share your thoughts.

Okay so to answer the questions for pre-check in. verify my stuff here. Yeah. I am looking at it to make sure it was correct for emergency contact, yes. Next of kin, verify it is the same. Okay yeah. I like that one, it is very easy without having to sign in. I liked the last name and DOB.

What do you mean about sing in: when it prompted me to enter my last name and DOB, it just found me in the system and is it logging me in automatically or how does that work. Okay, yeah. That’s just easy to me how it did all of that and it listed everything I had already provided for contact infomraiton, emergency contacts and next of kin. 

### Second pass through the first pre-check-in workflow
Now, I'm going to have you go back through the exercise again. This time I'll ask you some questions at each point in the process.

**Pre-check-in Text (second text with link to pre-check-in)**
- What are your thoughts about what the text is asking you to do? It is preparing me for the appointment to have me check on it. The wording is straightforward there is no confusion
- Would you add or remove anything from this text messages? I would not add or remove anything because it is right there. The format is straightforward. 

**Introduction page**
- Can you explain to me what we're looking at? It is confirming me and my appointment is prompted right there. The information is there as far as who I will see, the time, and that the provider will call me. it is infomraiton as far as the appointment is concerned then the main question is for what you are checking in for. 
- What are your thoughts about the information shared with you on this page?
- Is there anything missing? No. well you know looking at it and maybe it sounds weird but adding it to the iCal or google phone next to the appointment. that would eb something for me that I would add but that’s just me. 
- Appointment infomraiton, anything else you want to know here:  No, I think that is good where its at. If you add to much or more to it, it could cause confusion. That is straight forward, date/time/ provider, and how the appointment will take place. They will call and I don’t need to do anything on my end.
- Knowing the name is important: yes. Very important. 

**Contact information**
- What are your thoughts about what this page is asking you? It is asking me to verify my contact infomraiton is correct. I don’t see anything that is missing or that needs to be added. Yeah that’s what I would want. If there were extra it would drive me crazy. 
- Ideally, which phone number would you like a provider to call you at? Mobile phone. 
- Always the case: I think it will always be the case. It depends on the veteran because some have home phones and some work but for me I need the mobile phone because I don’t have a home phone. The other spaces can stay there if I have them. 
- Want a provider to call you at a different number for an appointment: no. 
- what would you do if you noticed your address is wrong because you just moved? I would correct it; I would select no and assume it provides the option to fix it. 

**Confirmation page**
- What are your thoughts about this page? Just trying to see if it provided an option to correct it myself but it still took me to the appointment. Here it says you can call to updated the contact information. 
- Thoughts on the update further: I think it is fine because it does give you the option to sign in to correct those portions that need to be corrected. Then they also provide the number and its 24/7. In the event you have issues signing in you can call. 
- What will happen if you click sing in: I assume it will go to the va website to login. 
- Thoughts on the information here : I think it is excellent because you can do it yourself and it is straightforward, that’s the main key for me. it is not overwhelming so that’s what I take from that, I don’t need to stress out about finding the number because it is provide. 
- Once you submit these questions, who do you expect will have access to the answers that you entered? I would assume the VA clinic you are assigned to. 
- What do you do now that you have completed pre-check-in? nothing else. 
  - Would you want to navigate anywhere else? Um, as far as the menu maybe. I could go there and see what else I would want to see because I am already there so I would go there. I wouldn’t go anywhere else. 
  - What would be the next thing that you do related to your appointment?  Add it to my calendar, that’s one thing I would do. 
  - What do you think happens when you click on "Sign in to manage all appointments"? I think it would be the va website to sign in. 
  - What would be there: all of the past and upcoming appointments. 
  - Expectation of sign in: sign in to the va website to my profile.  
- What do you think happens when you click on the “Log in" in the section "How can I update my information?"
- What are your thoughts on the order of the information on this page?  No I wouldn’t shift anything around. 

## Second Task: Non-happy path for pre-check-in for a telephone appointment - 30 minutes
Imagine it’s the morning of your appointment. You just remembered you were sent an SMS link about the appointment. You see this page, and you decide to complete the question it is asking you. Walk me through what you would do here.

I would just do the pre-check in since I said yes to confirm. Just start filling everything out. (reading page) Okay. 
- Why do you think you are seeing this page? As in it not being available. It is showing you what was available to you but it is not available now. 
- Why isnt it available: I assume it is a broken link. 
- What information is helpful? For sure, yes. That you can sign in to review the infomraiton, all of the number that are there and they are there 24/7. The questions about the appointment you can contact the provider. 
- Is there anything missing or would you change anything? I don’t think I would change anything. 
- Would you want to navigate anywhere else? Why or why not? No. 
- What would be the next thing that you do related to your appointment? I think I would just confirm my information maybe but it should all be up today. To ensure I was okay I would double check. 

## Post-Task Interview - 9 minutes
- Now that you've seen an example of what this pre-check-in experience for telephone appointments could look like, what are your overall impressions?  I like this one, it is more manage and not overwhelming with infomraiton. It is strictly to the point or signing in or the appointment and pre-checking in. 
- What are your thoughts on calling the experience you just completed “pre-check-in”? No I think I would leave it the same because that is normal verbiage. I see it as something you need to do to be successful for the appointment. 
- Can you describe why you would be interested or not interested in reviewing these items prior to your telephone appointment? I think it would be easier for me to be sure I am providing things I need to and keeping it up to date if I were to find a job I could provide that number or what not. 
- Are there any other items or information that you would like to review and update prior to your appointment? Medication list, I would do that. I think that’s the only one I would input there. 
- Do you think you’d want to complete these updates on a mobile phone or desktop? Mobile phone. 
- If you could change one thing about the experience, what would it be? I don’t have one. 
- Do you have any other thoughts on what we talked about today? I just like the format and layout, its one of those things that when you get a link it is normally overwhelming but this one was simple and easy. When you get the text and confirming, I am familiar with when I go through the process but this one just seems really easy to use and not overwhelming for the user. 
- Any questions for me? No ma’am. 

## Thank-You and Closing - 3 minutes
Well we really appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us today. Your feedback is so helpful to us as we continue to work on the site and make sure it really works for Veterans.

Thanks! Lastly, do you know any other Veterans, caregivers, or service members who might be willing to participate in a future user research session? If Yes: Thank you! I'll have our team send you an email with a little blurb that you can pass along.

Great, well thank you so much again, and enjoy the rest of your day!
