# P13
Start recording.
- I have started recording. I'd like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record my screen and the audio as we talk today? Yes

## Warm-up Questions - 10 minutes
Now, I’m going to ask you to think about your last VA medical appointment where you spoke to the physician over the phone.
- What was the type of appointment, such as primary care, cardiology, dermatology, etc.? Mental health
- How did you schedule this appointment? I normally schedule them over the phone. 
  - Was it a follow-up from an earlier appointment? Yes. 
  - Call the 800 number or the clinic number: The clinic phone number. 
- Did anyone (possibly a nurse) call you prior to the appointment to ask you questions? Um, no. 
- Did you receive any reminder messages about this appointment? Yes.
  - What type(s) of reminders? Um usually a phone reminder.
  - Do you get more than one: It is usually like uh, I am trying to think. Its like 40 hours before the appointment and others its 24 hours prior. 
- Can you describe the day of the appointment:
  - Who called who?  Oh its normally an in person appointment. 
  - Had a few over the phone: Yes the doctors call me. 
  - Was it on your personal mobile phone, landline, or work phone? Mobile phone, always. 
  - Landline call unexpectedly and you miss it: No. 
  - Pretty constant: the mobile phone is my main line of communication so I don’t provide the landline or work number. 
    - If it was on your mobile phone, do you recall if it was a general phone number or a private number? It usually has something like VA on it. 
  - What types of questions do the medical professionals (such as a doctor) ask at the start of your telephone appointments? For instance, do they review your list of medications?  Um, you hit it on the nose. Medication questions. 
  - Anything else: Um, its just the typical session you have when you go in person with the exception that its on the phone instead of in person. 
  - General questions: Yes. 
- If you need to cancel or reschedule your telephone appointment, how do you normally do that? With the telephone appointment they will send me an email as well. So if I need to cancel or reschedule there is a link within the email.
- Have you seen a difference between canceling and reschedule: I guess it depends on who their provider is. Most of the time if you need to cancel or reschedule theres a separate link for both and they use an app called Calendly. With that app we can cancel or reschedule a new appointment
- Can you schedule int here as well or do you need to call:  Yes. It is better to do the appointments online rather than calling because you can call them and they may not get back to right away. If you do it online it is locked in and gets back quicker by email than phone. 
- What do you like about medical appointments completed over the telephone?   Less anxiety. I tend to get stressed going to in person appointments, having them over the phone eases the stress.  
- What problems have you run into before, during or after a telephone appointment? Um, well I haven’t ran into issues with phone appointment other than the internet connection issues and that is rare. 
- When you need to see the provider by video: yes but it rarely happens. 
- Do you have audio only at times: Yes mostly only audio. 
- What could be improved? I cannot think of anything. 

## First Task: Happy path for pre-check-in for a telephone appointment - 30 minutes
### SMS and first pass through the first pre-check-in workflow
At this point, I would like you to share your screen, so we can see the text too. Try to complete the task that the SMS is asking you about. I will just observe you as you try to complete it. I'll ask you questions later. Talk-aloud as you complete the task. Share your thoughts.

(reading page) I would confirm the appointment so say Y1. (reading page) I would click on the website to complete the pre-check in. This is not a real website right. It says my appointment date/time and has who the doctor is. This is just the confirmation that the appointment has been set.

What do you think has happened: Um, as I stated earlier this is an easy way to set up an appointment. 

Click on start questions: oh you want me to click on that. Okay. 

For this prototype I would say yes. I would say yes for the emergency contact. Next of kin, yes. Pre-check in complete. It has tabs so if you need to updated the contact infomraiton you can sign into the VA account or call the toll free number to do it over the phone. 

### Second pass through the first pre-check-in workflow
Now, I'm going to have you go back through the exercise again. This time I'll ask you some questions at each point in the process.

**Pre-check-in Text (second text with link to pre-check-in)**
- What are your thoughts about what the text is asking you to do? Um instructions are specific. It is what you need to do. 
- Would you add or remove anything from this text messages?  No. 

**Introduction page**
- What are your thoughts about the information shared with you on this page?  It is basic infomraiton for the appointment, Date/time, and the doctor you will be seeing
- All important to you: yes. 
- First you stopped here at this page, did you think you were done: No because the top said answer pre-check in questions. 

**Contact information**
- What are your thoughts about what this page is asking you? It is asking me if the contact infomraiton is correct, if I click no then it would let me edit it. then go on to the next sections. 
- Are there any other pieces of contact information that you would like to review on this page? No
- Is there anything missing or would you change anything? No
- Ideally, which phone number would you like a provider to call you at? Mobile phone 
- (If applicable) what would you do if you noticed your address is wrong because you just moved? I would click no then type in the correct address.
- When click no what do you expect: if I click no, I thought that it would give me an opportunity to change it right then but it went onto the next question. 

**Confirmation page**
- What are your thoughts about this page? So, this is the confirmation of the appointment and the pre-check in has been completed. Since I clicked no for two of those I can call the 800 number or sign in to the va account to update the information. 
- What happens if you click sign in: I would login
- Where would it take you: m personal dashboard. In that personal dashboard it has a profile on there and contact information that you can change your infomraiton. That’s where you would need to go.
- Thoughts on having to edit after va here: it would have been better to edit it there then move on the next question. 
- Thoughts: its quick and convenient. It is a convenient way to change your infomration
- What do you think you could change here: I would change the one question was asked if the mailing address were correct. If I clicked no there should be a screen to update the contact infomraiton then save and then go on to the next. 
- Once you submit these questions, who do you expect will have access to the answers that you entered? The VA would have access to it and the clinic itself. 
- What do you do now that you have completed pre-check-in? 
  - Would you want to navigate anywhere else? Why or why not?
  - What would be the next thing that you do related to your appointment? Theres an email confirmation that would come to you saying here’s your appointment, clinic you go to and the doctor. In most cases it says if you need to cancel or reschedule call this number or change it online. 
- What other tasks could you do on this page?
  - What are your thoughts on these tasks?
  - What do you think happens when you click on the "Get travel pay"?
  - What do you think happens when you click on "Sign in to manage all appointments"? Okay. I am not able to click the link. If it were connected you would need to sing into the VA account then directs you to all of the appointments you have
  - Is that helpful: that is very helpful because keeping up with the appointments online is more convenient then trying to call. if I need to reschedule my appointment you might get someone or might not. But if you do it online it is convenient and they get a notification that I changed the appointment. It is much more convenient.
  - Blue box: It is letting me know the provider was supposed to call of the appointment or a bit before and sometimes they may call late so wait at least 15 minutes. Sometimes they do call a little later. I would say between 10-15 minutes after the appointment so they are asking that you allot that time for them. 
  - Feelings: I am mixed about that; I understand that doctors get behind. You know I understand that but if they can help it, if the appointment is at 930 then they should call at 930 or a few minutes prior to the appointment but I understand they may get behind and call a few minutes late. As long as I did what I was supposed to then that’s all I can do. 
- What are your thoughts on the order of the information on this page? No

## Second Task: Non-happy path for pre-check-in for a telephone appointment - 30 minutes
Imagine it’s the morning of your appointment. You just remembered you were sent an SMS link about the appointment. You see this page, and you decide to complete the question it is asking you. Walk me through what you would do here.

I got the text and I typed Y1 to confirm. now to do the pre-check in so clicked on that. (reading page) Oh it says that the pre-check in is no longer available. 
- Why do you think you are seeing this page? I am not sure, maybe I didn’t put in the required infomraiton. 
- Grey box: oh it says you can pre-check prior to midnight the day of the appointment. I think I know what happened. I think I missed the deadline to do the pre-check in for the appointment. 
- What information is helpful? The FAQ. Especially the why can’t I check in. you have at the top its unable and then towards the bottom why can’t I pre-check in. 
- Anything else helpful: It says I can login to my va account. It sounds like an alternative to me. 
- Is there anything missing or would you change anything? Only thing I would do is to change this is that it says sorry pre-check in is no longer available. It would be good to have an option of how to do that or if I need to call the provider for more information. 
- What would be the next thing that you do related to your appointment? I would end up calling the provider to find out what happened and what can I do to correct the situation. If I can’t is the appointment not confirmed, I would need to reschedule then do the pre-appointment check in because it looks like I missed the appointment
- Not sure if it is confirmed so you call to verify: yes.

## Post-Task Interview - 9 minutes
- Now that you've seen an example of what this pre-check-in experience for telephone appointments could look like, what are your overall impressions? Un, I prefer this method than calling in because everything is done quickly and you get confirmation while they get a notification. It is all done by email or they leave a text if you leave a mobile number to confirm it. It is the same infomraiton on the prototype would be send my text and email and the same for the reminders to let you know when you appointment is like in 24 hours later. 
- Want to do it form text or email: yes. 
- What are your thoughts on calling the experience you just completed “pre-check-in”? Um, No other than the fact that its convenient then having to do it over the phone. 
- Can you describe why you would be interested or not interested in reviewing these items prior to your telephone appointment? To smooth things along I guess. Well I guess they give instructions and you want to make sure you follow them so your appointment is confirmed and set. 
- Are there any other items or information that you would like to review and update prior to your appointment? Um, no. I think that is appropriate unless you say well I don’t want to disclose any infomraiton to my next of kin or emergency contact. There should be an option to opt out of it. 
- Do you think you’d want to complete these updates on a mobile phone or desktop? I have no preference. 
- If you could change one thing about the experience, what would it be? I think I just mentioned it. one thing I would change is the whole platform I would want to change the infomraiton right there instead of logging into my va account . I would do it there then save it and go on the next. 
- Do you have any other thoughts on what we talked about today? Um, I think another thing I discussed already is if I don’t want my emergency contact to have information shared I should be able to opt out on the platform. 
- Any questions for me? No

## Thank-You and Closing - 3 minutes
Well we really appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us today. Your feedback is so helpful to us as we continue to work on the site and make sure it really works for Veterans.

Thanks! Lastly, do you know any other Veterans, caregivers, or service members who might be willing to participate in a future user research session? If Yes: Thank you! I'll have our team send you an email with a little blurb that you can pass along.

Great, well thank you so much again, and enjoy the rest of your day!
