# P14
Start recording.
- I have started recording. I'd like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record my screen and the audio as we talk today? Yes. 

## Warm-up Questions - 10 minutes
Now, I’m going to ask you to think about your last VA medical appointment where you spoke to the physician over the phone.
- What was the type of appointment, such as primary care, cardiology, dermatology, etc.? It was mental health. 
- How did you schedule this appointment? Yes it was a follow up they called to schedule the appointment. 
- Did anyone (possibly a nurse) call you prior to the appointment to ask you questions? Um, no they never do. 
- Did you receive any reminder messages about this appointment? Yes I did. It was by email. 
- Can you describe the day of the appointment:
  - Who called who? 
  - Was it on your personal mobile phone, landline, or work phone? It was on this phone and I cant use my caption phone for video recording which makes it hard on a phone appointment. This is my mobile phone.
    - If it was on your mobile phone, do you recall if it was a general phone number or a private number?  No its not, its there home number because she works from home. You cant see VA for medications for mental health. There is no in person. 
    - On phone with video: Yes VA Video connect.
    - Do you remember a time it was just on the phone without video: yes
    - Was it a follow-up: yes the doctor called to give me some answers and I could use my caption phone so it was great. 
    - Type of appointment: neurology.
    - Called you on caption phone: yes
    - Do you get indication on who’s calling: yes a caption phone is provided. The volume clears the words so it’s easier to hear and it writes it out so I don’t miss any of the conversation.  
  - What types of questions do the medical professionals (such as a doctor) ask at the start of your telephone appointments? For instance, do they review your list of medications? No. 
- If you need to cancel or reschedule your telephone appointment, how do you normally do that? Call the va and be put on hold. You are on hold forever when you call. 
  - Ideally, how would you like to cancel or reschedule?
- What do you like about medical appointments completed over the telephone?
- What problems have you run into before, during or after a telephone appointment? Getting another appointment scheduled because the doctor calls you its not like you are checking out there so you need to wait for a clerk to call you for another appointment so it takes a week just to get one scheduled. 
- Other issues: when you make a phone appointment and doing medication you cant go pick it up and you cant go to the local facility they want you to drive to temple and you don’t get travel pay for that or they will mail it. so if you need it that day you need to pay out of pocket which is not good because it can run up on money. 
- What could be improved? It would be nice if they were not all the video one, it would be nice to have it to where I can just talk to them. 
- great if video appointment can use your caption: yes because here you cant get internet so all I have is my phone so its on the small screen. 

## First Task: Happy path for pre-check-in for a telephone appointment - 30 minutes
### SMS and first pass through the first pre-check-in workflow
At this point, I would like you to share your screen, so we can see the text too. Try to complete the task that the SMS is asking you about. I will just observe you as you try to complete it. I'll ask you questions later. Talk-aloud as you complete the task. Share your thoughts.

Type Y1, send and there it goes, then hit the link. Last name, DOB, Continue. Oh purple team, the provider will call you. Then that’s it I would be done. Want me to hit the flag again.  

### Second pass through the first pre-check-in workflow
Now, I'm going to have you go back through the exercise again. This time I'll ask you some questions at each point in the process.

**Pre-check-in Text (second text with link to pre-check-in)**
- What are your thoughts about what the text is asking you to do? No its good. It explains it and no need to travel so you know it’s not in person. It is just to help the doctor get the right patient.  

**Introduction page**
- Can you explain to me what we're looking at? I like that it has the actual numbers listed and you can hit them since they are highlighted so you don’t need to write it down you can just click it. Will this apply to all of them because it has sign in, will it work for veterans that cant sign in to the new MyHeatheVet. My brother can no longer use the new ID sign in because she doesn’t have an email so I do his. It has worked for three years and now they wont accept my email for him so he can’t use anything that requires you to sign in to the va site. I am sure he’s not the only one. If they have to sign in they wont be able to complete it.  
- What are your thoughts about the information shared with you on this page? I would just exit out because theres nothing else for me to do. 

**Contact information**
- What are your thoughts about what this page is asking you? No but still once again theres nowhere to put the last 4 and that’s how VA operates. 
- Curious as to why you don’t see the last 4 listed here: Yes because even when you check in they scan the card but still ask for your last 4. 
- Are there any other pieces of contact information that you would like to review on this page? No. 
- Ideally, which phone number would you like a provider to call you at? Mobile phone, caption phone 
- How would you expect it to be listed: just for it to be call the home phone because it is connected to my cellphone, they are connected together.
- Home phone actually cellphone: yes.

**Confirmation page**
- What are your thoughts about this page? It  would be great for me I could sign into my other appointments so I could do that while I am waiting. 
  - What do you think happens when you click on "Sign in to manage all appointments"? The myhealthevet site and I sign in to see appointments and refill prescriptions while I wait for them to call. A lot of time  certain doctors can only refill certain prescriptions so I would do that so I know if I need to ask them to put in the refills. 
  - Doing that to prepare for the phone appointment: Yes. 
  - What happens if you sign in: I could sign in them go to the va profile. If you have a computer this system is fantastic because you are not typing on a small screen. You can even leave a secure message for the doctor. 
  - What do you think happens when you click on "Check in to another appointment"?
- What are your thoughts on the order of the information on this page? It’s a good order because you know what to expect. 
- Other feedback:  No it is clear and it is real easy. My bother could do this one okay. 

## Second Task: Non-happy path for pre-check-in for a telephone appointment - 30 minutes
Imagine it’s the morning of your appointment. You just remembered you were sent an SMS link about the appointment. You see this page, and you decide to complete the question it is asking you. Walk me through what you would do here.

This is what they send me for my appointments now it is basically the same thing you send the response for the appointment but we don’t have the bottom part of it. I would click the link. put last name and DOB then continue. (reading page) That’s funny.  
- Why do you think you are seeing this page? I don’t actually have an appointment and it says the provider will call you. 
- What if you had a real appointment and you saw this: So the doctor wouldn’t get confused who they were talking to. They see so many patients, I am surprised it didn’t ask for my last 4 because they check to see who you are by last name, last 4 and DOB. 
- What would be the next thing that you do related to your appointment? I would get out of it and just wait since they would be calling me.

## Post-Task Interview - 9 minutes
- Now that you've seen an example of what this pre-check-in experience for telephone appointments could look like, what are your overall impressions? I think its good. The only thing is that it doesn’t have the last 4. 
- Why that concerns you: Because they ask everywhere else at the VA to verify it is definitely you. My brother has nelson as the last name and it is a common name. 
- Expectations here would be an indication for the last 4 to help verify: yes. 
- What are your thoughts on calling the experience you just completed “pre-check-in”? It helps the doctor out. Really it’s all it is. You are helping them get prepared for you. 
- On intro page you felt like there were no other action but there was a start here link for the questions, thoughts/feedback: No because no one wants to do any of that. VA is trying to get into more phone appointments rather than in person. 
- Feel like the veterans wouldn’t want to answer these prior: Every time, yes. A lot of them are on their iPad or computer so the VA does not consider rural veterans that only have a phone. They are lucky to where cellphones came out to where we have internet. If there wasn’t internet to get text or check in, how would they do virtual appointments for rural veterans. Are they not getting care then. My brother could do most of this but a lot of older vets would get highly confused on what to do each time. A 70 year old man just basic simple, shouldn’t have to do all of the typing the entire time. 
- Does it match with your expectations? Yes. 
- Can you describe why you would be interested or not interested in reviewing these items prior to your telephone appointment? Like I said I would review my medication. If there were a spot instead of signing in to va account or manage appointment. If they had sign in to review medication. I know a lot of veterans look at the medication to see if they need to ask the doctor to refill them.
- Are there any other items or information that you would like to review and update prior to your appointment?
- Do you think you’d want to complete these updates on a mobile phone or desktop? I would prefer something you can type on and not hit the tiny keys. When I have to type a lot I pull out my magnifying screen. 
- Does that help: yes because then I need to get the stylist out. 
- On a tablet: no its on my phone, it’s all I have. 
- If you could change one thing about the experience, what would it be? Nothing really, I think you guys did a great job on the pre-check in. 
- Do you have any other thoughts on what we talked about today? No. 
- Any questions for me? No

## Thank-You and Closing - 3 minutes
Well we really appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us today. Your feedback is so helpful to us as we continue to work on the site and make sure it really works for Veterans.

Thanks! Lastly, do you know any other Veterans, caregivers, or service members who might be willing to participate in a future user research session? If Yes: Thank you! I'll have our team send you an email with a little blurb that you can pass along.

Great, well thank you so much again, and enjoy the rest of your day!
