# P15
Start recording.
- I have started recording. I'd like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record my screen and the audio as we talk today? Absoutely. 

## Warm-up Questions - 10 minutes
Now, I’m going to ask you to think about your last VA medical appointment where you spoke to the physician over the phone.
- What was the type of appointment, such as primary care, cardiology, dermatology, etc.? It was primary care. 
- How did you schedule this appointment? Um, I actually called the VA line here in Columbus and scheduled it that way. It was the call center
- Did anyone (possibly a nurse) call you prior to the appointment to ask you questions? No
- Did you receive any reminder messages about this appointment? Yes. There was a volunteer that called and left a message. It was a few days prior to the appointment. I also received an email; I get regular VA reminders form myhealthevet. 
- Can you describe the day of the appointment:
  - Who called who? My provider called me on my cell phone. That’s what I typically use.
    - If it was on your mobile phone, do you recall if it was a general phone number or a private number? It says VA Columbus when it comes up on my phone. 
  - What types of questions do the medical professionals (such as a doctor) ask at the start of your telephone appointments? For instance, do they review your list of medications? She asked if I needed the list of medications or appointments so they could send it out to me. I work for the VA so I just pull that up, we talk outside of the va ask well too. 
- If you need to cancel or reschedule your telephone appointment, how do you normally do that? Typically if I need to cancel and reschedule I call the call center. 
- For all appointments: correct. 
  - Ideally, how would you like to cancel or reschedule? Um well before I don’t know if you know much about Columbus. We have went live with serner. Now the veterans are able to cancel and schedule appointments on their own. Right now you cant cancel or reschedule with myhealthevet so you have to call the call center. If I could I would just do it online and be done with it. 
- What do you like about medical appointments completed over the telephone? It is convenient for me because I work from home. If I don’t need to drive 45 minutes in then I won’t. I know theres community care because that’s what I do. I like going to the va and don’t want to go outside if I don’t have to. 
- What problems have you run into before, during or after a telephone appointment? Only thing I would ave an issue with is if I forgot to ask something but then I just send a secure message and they get back with me within an hour or two.
- How does that work out: it works great because I hear back within hours instead of days. I know they have up to 48 hours. It is normally quicker than that.  
- What could be improved? Um, maybe the time. I do know the time slots are generally 15 minutes but if they made it 30 minutes it would be more beneficial for a lot of vets. I try to have all my ducks in the row before the appointment so I get what I need. When she and I talk I don’t need the entire time it is just a general follow up for something. I will send her a message that I have a sinus infection and she knows I know what I am talking about. The phone call will be what’s this or that and I tell her then she prescribes something or suggests something. Then a week or two I have a follow up on how I am feeling. 
- Things you do to prepare: I will have the list of questions I have to ask her and that kind of stuff. 

## First Task: Happy path for pre-check-in for a telephone appointment - 30 minutes
### SMS and first pass through the first pre-check-in workflow
At this point, I would like you to share your screen, so we can see the text too. Try to complete the task that the SMS is asking you about. I will just observe you as you try to complete it. I'll ask you questions later. Talk-aloud as you complete the task. Share your thoughts.

So um reply as a confirm. Okay. then I click the link. enter infomration. Continue. Answer questions. I assume this is all fake. Okay. I am just kind of, once you are finished the pre-check in my question is what do you do next. (reading page) So like my honest thinking is as in general, for me I would exit out but there are older vets that are like what do it do. So I think if they had a popup that says exit or something like that to tell you to exit then wait for the call. it would be helpful. I would just exit out myself but I know a lot of vets would wonder what to do next. 

### Second pass through the first pre-check-in workflow
Now, I'm going to have you go back through the exercise again. This time I'll ask you some questions at each point in the process.

**Pre-check-in Text (second text with link to pre-check-in)**
- Would you add or remove anything from this text messages? No, I think it is fine
- What would you do next? Typically I would hit the link.

**Introduction page**
- What are your thoughts about the information shared with you on this page? I would put the start here and answer question I would put it right under the answers will help us better because when it pops you cant see it so all they would see is the appointment time/date and the provider will call you. Had I not known there would eb something to do, like a lot of veterans would think they had questions but not see it. I scroll up to look but a lot of vets wont know to scroll. 

**Contact information**
- Are there any other pieces of contact information that you would like to review on this page? No, I think this is basically the same things they ask you in the office. The only thing I could think of to add is the next screen for emergency contact, then there should be a third screen that asks about outside insurance. 
- Insurance a separate screen: right. That’s just coming from the VA side of me. 
- Ideally, which phone number would you like a provider to call you at? Well I don’t have a home phone I just use my cell phone. I always have my mobile so I know for anyone else whatever their default number is, I know when you pull it up it’s the first number we typically call the patient on. Normally they tell us which number they prefer so it should be fine. 
- Want to indicate a preference: Yes because then they have that option if they want to change. I know a lot of people get rid of the home phone when they get a cell phone. So they might want to change the default to mobile so if there were a way to mark that as a default. That way the patient knows it is their default number. 

**Confirmation page**
- What are your thoughts about this page? Um, I don’t see any issues. Other than what I said before you may want to guide the vet to exit because for me I know what to do but a lot of them would wonder what to do next. 
- Is there any other information we should include here? Just more guidance. Lets see. Maybe list of local number for them if they need to contact the office if the provider hadn’t called in 15 minutes and they wonder what to do, they then end up calling the call center and then they end up getting a circle. If they had the local number like the ASMA for the provider they can call and say that dr.moon hasn’t called me and she was supposed to call 20 minutes ago. 
- What do you do now that you have completed pre-check-in? For me I would exit out and wait for the call. 
  - Would you want to navigate anywhere else? Um not unless I needed to like sing in to manage appointments. Since I am waiting I might sign in to see my appointments. 
  - What do you think happens when you click on "Sign in to manage all appointments"? Um, well I would expect to open it and see all of the appointments and see if I needed to cancel and reschedule. That would be about it. 
- What do you think happens when you click on the “Log in" in the section "How can I update my information?" I would expect to see the window to sign in then after I did a link to look at the appointments. 
- What are your thoughts on the order of the information on this page? I don’t see anything I have questions about. You may want to just for reference sometimes a know the crisis hotline number would be a good one just in case. Some of the vets schedule the phone appointment with primary care when it’s really a mental health issues

## Second Task: Non-happy path for pre-check-in for a telephone appointment - 30 minutes
Imagine it’s the morning of your appointment. You just remembered you were sent an SMS link about the appointment. You see this page, and you decide to complete the question it is asking you. Walk me through what you would do here.

Um so I would click the link. I would go ahead and complete it like I should’ve done it the day before. Fill in the infomraiton then click continue. Then it comes up that it is no longer available and I wouldn’t worry about it. 
- Why do you think you are seeing this page? I waited until to late. What’s the point if they are about to call. 
- Would you want to navigate anywhere else? Um, Not really. It would be the same suggestions as before for older vets or non-tech savvy individuals. Just let them know to exit. 
- What would be the next thing that you do related to your appointment? I would exit out and wait for the call. 

## Post-Task Interview - 9 minutes
- Now that you've seen an example of what this pre-check-in experience for telephone appointments could look like, what are your overall impressions? Um I like the idea because I am more of a rather answer things online instead of having to deal with people. I like that part and you can update things on there. I like it, I think it’s a good thing and like I said it will make things easier for the vets. 
- How will it make it easier: a lot of vets cant hear very well so that’s a big one. When talking to them on the phone and they cant hear, this will make it easier for them to do themselves and not having to worry about not hearing someone. You might not be on the phone if you can’t hear well either but a lot of vets have their caregivers with them. 
- What are your thoughts on calling the experience you just completed “pre-check-in”? I think it’s clear because what you are doing is what they do on the outside of the va. I know I get aqua therapy through community care and before my first visit there were pre-check in that was sent by text. Its not anything different than outside of the va. With the va it is more self-explanatory. It is already complete you are just confirming it is correct. 
- Can you describe why you would be interested or not interested in reviewing these items prior to your telephone appointment? Like I said before the insurance infomration, if someone has changed insurance it is not just vital for the patient but also the VA.
- Do you think you’d want to complete these updates on a mobile phone or desktop? I would say either, for me my phone is adequate but for some they prefer a computer so they can see it better. 
- If you could change one thing about the experience, what would it be? The one thing I would definitely change like I said about pre-check in screen for phone number is the crisis hotline is a must. 
- Any questions for me? No

## Thank-You and Closing - 3 minutes
Well we really appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us today. Your feedback is so helpful to us as we continue to work on the site and make sure it really works for Veterans.

Thanks! Lastly, do you know any other Veterans, caregivers, or service members who might be willing to participate in a future user research session? If Yes: Thank you! I'll have our team send you an email with a little blurb that you can pass along.

Great, well thank you so much again, and enjoy the rest of your day!
