# P16
Start recording.
- I have started recording. I'd like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record my screen and the audio as we talk today?  Yes

## Warm-up Questions - 10 minutes
Now, I’m going to ask you to think about your last VA medical appointment where you spoke to the physician over the phone.
- What was the type of appointment, such as primary care, cardiology, dermatology, etc.? My last one was with the pharmacy.  
- How did you schedule this appointment? It has been an ongoing chain of appointments so we just schedule it at the prior appointment. 
- Was the previous in person: no it was on the phone. The original one was setup by my primary care provider. 
- Was that one in person: no it was also a phone appointment. 
- Did anyone (possibly a nurse) call you prior to the appointment to ask you questions? No the only thing I got prior was the text reminder and email reminders about the upcoming appointment. 
- Can you describe the day of the appointment: 
  - Who called who? It was a link that I used to log on with my computer then did it on the computer. I normally do it on the computer, this is the first time on the phone.
  - Pharmacy was face to face on a video call: yes
  - First call was only on phone: That was also a video call. 
  - Remember an appointment that was just on the phone: yes I had a few with primary care we did it over the phone instead of rescheduling due to the video not working. 
  - Did you ever just schedule a phone appointment: No I have done video. A few times the primary care has reached out to check on me and it turned into an appointment. 
  - was there an official setup or did they just call: he told me he would call with results and then the other one was that I had been in the hospital and they reached out to me to check on me and share results to make sure I was alive and kicking. 
  - Mostly video call but when you have phone calls its to check on you and share results: yes that’s correct
  - Never scheduled the phone appointments: id dint know you could just do them scheduled that way; each time I try to schedule a remote appointment they always do a video. 
- What do you like about medical appointments completed over the telephone? I liked that we got straight to it and jumped right into the call. there were no ice breaking conversations, it just went to the appointment and got it done. We both knew there wasn’t much time. 
- What problems have you run into before, during or after a telephone appointment? You mean problems with he call itself. The only thing that was challenging was remember everything I wanted to talk about, I wasn’t prepared and didn’t have a list. There was always a darn it I forgot to ask you  something. 
- How did you deal with that: I sent a secure message on my HealtheVet 
- How did that work: it resolved the issue. 

## First Task: Happy path for pre-check-in for a telephone appointment - 30 minutes
### SMS and first pass through the first pre-check-in workflow
At this point, I would like you to share your screen, so we can see the text too. Try to complete the task that the SMS is asking you about. I will just observe you as you try to complete it. I'll ask you questions later. Talk-aloud as you complete the task. Share your thoughts.

I would hit details to remind myself then confirm. I would hit the link and finish the process then type in the last name and DOB then hit continue. I cant see what it is saying wait there’s the start there so I would follow the links and finish the links. I would click the hyperlink start here so I would go there. I would check the infomraiton and click yes then keep going, check and hit yes, check and then click yes. Then I have completed the pre-check in. So whatever the link is I would hit that. 

What would happen: I would expect to see a list of my appointments, which is always curious to me so I can make sure I write them down on my calendar. 

Anything you click on: there are phone numbers, I prefer talking to a human so if I saw the hyperlink I would click the number to talk to a human. 

Reactions to blue box: Nothing more than the normal irritation of having to wait. I understand doctors get behind and I am glad the box is there to remind people. At least theres a preventive step to warn people whereas a lot of people don’t want to wait. 

### Second pass through the first pre-check-in workflow
Now, I'm going to have you go back through the exercise again. This time I'll ask you some questions at each point in the process.

**Pre-check-in Text (second text with link to pre-check-in)**
- What are your thoughts about what the text is asking you to do? I don’t know if it is possible but the first time someone does this at least, what is pre-check in. there are so many scams going on so you never know if you are clicking the right link. stating what it is the first time and what you will be collecting so they can make a decision. 

**Introduction page**
- What are your thoughts about the information shared with you on this page? I get the same thing when I get voicemails. They need more details, what provider, what clinic. If you don’t remember and rely on this information to help you get a list and be prepared you don’t know what’s going on. You sign on blind because it doesn’t have the clinic or provider. 
- Need more specific infomraiton as in provider /department/clinic: yes

**Contact information**
- What are your thoughts about what this page is asking you? 
- Are there any other pieces of contact information that you would like to review on this page? Nothing more than I could think to confirm. I am curious to what happens if you say no. Does it just go on that you can click to make updates or can you update here
- What would you preferred:  as soon as I click no there should be an edit button in each block to edit it right there. 
- Ideally, which phone number would you like a provider to call you at? It is my cellphone. I don’t have a landline anymore it is strictly cellphones. 
- How would you indicate it: Um I thought it was already but it would be good to indicate which is preferred.
- VA to know which number to call: my primary is listed as my cell phone so I assume they know it is my preferred number. 

**Confirmation page**
- Other thoughts on this page? Um. Not that I can thing of. 

## Second Task: Non-happy path for pre-check-in for a telephone appointment - 30 minutes
Imagine it’s the morning of your appointment. You just remembered you were sent an SMS link about the appointment. You see this page, and you decide to complete the question it is asking you. Walk me through what you would do here.

I would personally hit details because I don’t remember a lot of my appointments. Then I would confirm. I would hit the link and go ahead and follow along with whatever it says to do. I would type in my last name and DOB, hit continue. 
- Why do you think you are seeing this page? It is day of the appointment and a few hours before; I would be frustrated. Why send me a link if it won’t let me check in. The system isnt smart enough to know it’s the day of the appointment. I would wait for the appointment then follow through. 

## Post-Task Interview - 9 minutes
- Now that you've seen an example of what this pre-check-in experience for telephone appointments could look like, what are your overall impressions? Um. First impression is why then I remind myself that it’s the same thing they do when you go in person. No one is asking me these questions in my phone appointments. I don’t know if it is required but I think this is a good system to do it with virtual appointments. 
- Why is it good for virtual appointments: just like everything else, everything needs to be checked once in awhile so if you don’t check it. it could be wrong and they wouldn’t have the correct infomraiton to take care of them. We are moving to a virtual system even with COVID going aways so more virtual appointments will be happening especially with the rice of gas these days. 
- What are your thoughts on calling the experience you just completed “pre-check-in”? I think pre-check in is the best bet. You aren’t checking in because you are doing it in advance. Its something us old folks just need to get use to. If you said chc3ekc in they would expect to instantly talk to the provider. 
- Can you describe why you would be interested or not interested in reviewing these items prior to your telephone appointment? Me personally I always end up getting it while driving so I would probably forget to get it. if I remembered or got it when I am home since going through this and understand the process I would do it without an issue. 
- Are there any other items or information that you would like to review and update prior to your appointment? Um, I think that automatically reviewing the ongoing appointments, you signed in it’s a secure system. We should eb able to automatically be able to check the appointments instead of following the links, it should be part of the check in. maybe when you finish the appointment there should be a check out like when its an in person then review the appointments. 
- Do you think you’d want to complete these updates on a mobile phone or desktop? I prefer the desktop because it is easier for me. 
- If you could change one thing about the experience, what would it be? I don’t think there is anything. 

## Thank-You and Closing - 3 minutes
Well we really appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us today. Your feedback is so helpful to us as we continue to work on the site and make sure it really works for Veterans.

Thanks! Lastly, do you know any other Veterans, caregivers, or service members who might be willing to participate in a future user research session? If Yes: Thank you! I'll have our team send you an email with a little blurb that you can pass along.

Great, well thank you so much again, and enjoy the rest of your day!
