# P17 (Referring to as P18 sometimes)
Start recording.
- I have started recording. I'd like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record my screen and the audio as we talk today? Yes. 

##Warm-up Questions - 10 minutes
Now, I’m going to ask you to think about your last VA medical appointment where you spoke to the physician over the phone.
- What was the type of appointment, such as primary care, cardiology, dermatology, etc.? It was specialty 
- How did you schedule this appointment? Basically they did.
  - Was it a follow-up from an earlier appointment? Yes, it was for pain management. 
- Did anyone (possibly a nurse) call you prior to the appointment to ask you questions? I don’t remember one. There was a group of doctors that I talked with prior to the pharmacists.
- Was that in person or on the phone prior to the appointment: it was prior to the appointment. 
- Did you receive any reminder messages about this appointment? Yes.
  - What type(s) of reminders? It was paper, it was snail mail. Then they texted me and called me. I was waiting for someone to show up at the door to. 
  - Prior to phone appointment: Yes
- Can you describe the day of the appointment:
  - Who called who? No I called in like this here. 
  - How did you know what number to call: it was on the email. 
  - Just over the phone no video: It was over the phone. 
  - Was there an official appointment time: yes. 
  - Was it on your personal mobile phone, landline, or work phone? My cellphone. We tried with the computer but it wouldn’t hook up. 
  - What types of questions do the medical professionals (such as a doctor) ask at the start of your telephone appointments? For instance, do they review your list of medications? One the first call with the team that’s when we went over the  medication then they were trying to find something with my pain so they asked how it was working.
  - When the team called did they call the cellphone as well: correct. 
  - Va specific number, private or general number: I cant remember it but I had the email with the number. I called them they didn’t call me. 
- If you need to cancel or reschedule your telephone appointment, how do you normally do that? They normally give a number to call to cancel and reschedule. 
- What do you like about medical appointments completed over the telephone? I don’t like them. I like to be in person and talk to the person trying to diagnosis what is going on. I can hold the phone up but they cant see or feel the pain.
- Prefer in person due to the interaction with the provider works better: I agree, yes. 
- What problems have you run into before, during or after a telephone appointment? Not with my telephone but with the computer when I first tried to hookup with the. 

## First Task: Happy path for pre-check-in for a telephone appointment - 30 minutes
### SMS and first pass through the first pre-check-in workflow
At this point, I would like you to share your screen, so we can see the text too. Try to complete the task that the SMS is asking you about. I will just observe you as you try to complete it. I'll ask you questions later. Talk-aloud as you complete the task. Share your thoughts.

I would put in Y1 to confirm it. It normally comes back and tells me thank you for confirming. If it were giving that to me then theres something that they need prior to the appointment. It could be the background for the pain management, they wanted the background on my pain and what medication I was taking. I would hit the link and enter my last name and DOB. Then it says my provider is going to call me. 

Anything you do here: it says start here so I don’t know if I need to wait for my provider to call but I imagine I would start or it wouldn’t be there. I would hit answer questions. It gives me numbers, names and if it were correct I would hit yes. Should it to me again. I don’t like the robo calls because if you hang up to fast they call back. I keep hitting yes and it brings be back. Am I doing something wrong. okay. Now it says I completed the pre-check and my call will be at 930 with the purple clinic. (reading page). I look at my appointments on my HealtheVet that’s where I order my medication and stuff. 

What next: this say sign in to manage my appointments, can I do that on my HealtheVet. That’s where I send messages to the silver team and the nurse calls me back or messages me back and where I refill my prescription. 

Would click sign in to manage appointments to do other tasks to communicate: That’s correct 

Order: it’s good to me

Text in blue box feedback: nope. It says they will give me a shout. 

### Second pass through the first pre-check-in workflow
Now, I'm going to have you go back through the exercise again. This time I'll ask you some questions at each point in the process.

**Pre-check-in Text (second text with link to pre-check-in)**
- What are your thoughts about what the text is asking you to do? I think everything is there. I never got one like this and wouldn’t expect it from my doctor because I expect them to know my medication and history but if you go to a specialist they don’t read the history. I had to talk to a team for 3 times a week when taking one medication. They weren’t quite up to what I was doing that’s one issue I have. 

**Introduction page**
- What are your thoughts about the information shared with you on this page? No it says the doctor will call within 15 minutes. I wouldn’t expect this from my regular doctor. If they don’t know my history I have an issue with that. If we were dealing with something like specialists, they replaced 2 inches of my aorta so I could see them calling ahead of time in case something needs done and go from there. The doctors that we were dealing with hadn’t done one before so everyone had a learning curve. 
- Expect them to already have all of this: yes. 

**Contact information**
- Is there anything missing or would you change anything? No that is everything. You do this when you check in with the kiosk. The only thing I don’t see is if it was accident related or your insurance. 
- Ideally, which phone number would you like a provider to call you at? Cellphone, it’s the only one I have. 

**Confirmation page**
- Would you want to navigate anywhere else? No, I have the numbers and I get the resources from the va health net or whatever it is. 
- What do you think happens when you click on "Sign in to manage all appointments"? It would take me to the list of appointments I have coming up. 

## Second Task: Non-happy path for pre-check-in for a telephone appointment - 30 minutes
Imagine it’s the morning of your appointment. You just remembered you were sent an SMS link about the appointment. You see this page, and you decide to complete the question it is asking you. Walk me through what you would do here.

If this came up and I responded once, to be honest I would just wait for the call. 

If this was on the day a few hours prior, just wait for the call: Yes

Correct to say you wouldn’t click on the link: I have already done that. 

Clarification, you haven’t had a chance to do it prior so really you haven’t yet. What would you do than: I would do the pre-Check in. 

Go into there, enter last name and DOB. Continue. It says it is no longer available then I just wait to talk to them. 
- Why do you think you are seeing this page? The only thing I could think of there isnt enough time for me to put it in and them review it prior to talking with me. 
- At this point you just wait for them to call: That’s correct. 

## Post-Task Interview - 9 minutes
- Now that you've seen an example of what this pre-check-in experience for telephone appointments could look like, what are your overall impressions? I understand in some places it is needed. I like to be in person and I hate having the phone appointments. I am a retired chief of police; I like to see people eye to eye so you can see how they think. That is hard to do over the phone because people put off different signals. I did my annual physical physcail over the phone. 
- What if you had to do this for an in person appointment, impression: If it were for an in person one that’s fine no issues with that because its just like the kiosk. They ask the same questions. 
- What are your thoughts on calling the experience you just completed “pre-check-in”? No I think that is fine. Pre-check in addresses what it is. I have been going to doctors for years and you go through this everywhere else so pre-check in is fine. 
- Are there any other items or information that you would like to review and update prior to your appointment? I don’t think so. A lot of that you go over with the doctor when you go in there . I am not sure of anything else you need in there. I hesitated because I need to change my POC because she is no longer here. 
- Do you think you’d want to complete these updates on a mobile phone or desktop? If it were ahead of time either one. 
- How would you expect to make the changes if needed: Either on the phone like this or the kiosk when I check in at the clinic. 
- If you could change one thing about the experience, what would it be? That’s hard to answer because most of it is identifying who I am. It is basic infomraiton. I don’t have an issue with it. 
- Any questions for me? No, I think you handled it and I appreciate the time. 

## Thank-You and Closing - 3 minutes
Well we really appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us today. Your feedback is so helpful to us as we continue to work on the site and make sure it really works for Veterans.
 
Thanks! Lastly, do you know any other Veterans, caregivers, or service members who might be willing to participate in a future user research session? If Yes: Thank you! I'll have our team send you an email with a little blurb that you can pass along.

Great, well thank you so much again, and enjoy the rest of your day!
