# P4
- I have started recording. I'd like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record my screen and the audio as we talk today? Yes that’s fine. 

## Warm-up Questions - 10 minutes
Now, I’m going to ask you to think about your last VA medical appointment where you spoke to the physician over the phone.
- What was the type of appointment, such as primary care, cardiology, dermatology, etc.? So um the last one which is most recent is withy physical therapy. 
- How long ago: Maybe last month. 
- How did you schedule this appointment? I believe it was either my primary that sent the referral then someone called to confirm if I was available for the date/time. 
- Phone to ask if you were available then scheduled over the phone: I believe so yes. 
- Referral from primary care, follow up: it was an initial follow up. 
- Did anyone (possibly a nurse) call you prior to the appointment to ask you questions? Um, ah. I don’t recall if that happened. 
- Did you receive any reminder messages about this appointment? Um, I might have. I normally get an email prior to the appointment. one once it has been scheduled then a few days prior. I also get a card in the mail but I can’t remember when. Pretty sure I got an email and I am not sure if I got a card. With some appointments I do and others I don’t. 
- Can you describe the day of the appointment? If I am not mistaken I clicked the link then they joined. 
- So it was a video call: Yes
- Phone appointment as well: Yes I have had those also before. Let me remember the last service it was for. I am sure I did it with primary care. So I can correctly remember I did as few with the nutritionist over the phone as well. 
- How was that scheduled: It was the primary care putting in the referral then scheduled with their service as an initial. 
- Did they call prior to your appointment to ask questions: I don’t believe so. 
- Reminders: I don’t believe I did. 
  - Who called who? They called me because I don’t have their number. 
  - Was it on your personal mobile phone, landline, or work phone? I was called on my cellphone. 
    - If it was on your mobile phone, do you recall if it was a general phone number or a private number? Uh I honestly don’t remember. I would find that being an issue because I screen my calls to avoid spam calls. I will answer and mute it and if they don’t speak then its probably a spam. 
  - What types of questions do the medical professionals (such as a doctor) ask at the start of your telephone appointments? For instance, do they review your list of medications? She might have went over the medications and introduced herself but we just got into it after that. 
- If you need to cancel or reschedule your telephone appointment, how do you normally do that? I have not had to cancel a phone appointment.
  - Ideally, how would you like to cancel or reschedule? Um I would have tried, sometimes they send the text message to confirm or cancel. If that didn’t happen or if it is past the time and I needed to cancel I would try to go into the va app to see if I can do it on the appointment screen. If it doesn’t show up, sometimes I see that appointments don’t show up on the list I would try to call the local va and get transferred to reschedule or call the nutrition department. I cold also send a  secure message if they are on my list, if they are not on the list then I couldn’t. I was doing a lot of secure message in FL but in TN they don’t use it as much. 
- What do you like about medical appointments completed over the telephone? I think that it is great that certain  types of appointments can be on the phone instead of in person since there are assessments. Maybe a weight would need to be done but that could be done at another time. I do like the ability to do it on the phone, it saves me at 40 minute drive to the Nashville area. 
- Likes convenience factor: yes 100 percent. 
- What problems have you run into before, during or after a telephone appointment? Like I said maybe the only thing I can think of, I don’t know if it on location or department thing but it doesn’t always show up on the list. That’s about it. 
- Varies or just phone appointments: in my experience it is the phone appointment types. I have done phone and video and in person but in person always shows up. I don’t know if it is due to it being telemedicine. Maybe it is due to the workflow differences for in person and telemedicine. It is the va mobile app, much better than the computer because I can get on it at anytime to look. 
- What could be improved? Um, for phone call appointments I can’t remember the number the popped up but I think it was a va number so that’s not an issue. Maybe once or twice I got a va call and they were a little late and I didn’t know how to reach out to ask if it got cancelled. I didn’t know how to follow up with that. 

## First Task: Happy path for pre-check-in for a telephone appointment - 30 minutes
### SMS and first pass through the first pre-check-in workflow
At this point, I would like you to share your screen, so we can see the text too. Try to complete the task that the SMS is asking you about. I will just observe you as you try to complete it. I'll ask you questions later. Talk-aloud as you complete the task. Share your thoughts.

Pretty familiar with the reminders so I would see the date/time and I would make sure it is what I expected it to be. Text Y1 to confirm. then if I had time I would click the link, fill this out. Go through this again and I see theres my provider in the purple clinic in ET. I am glad the time zone is there. Then I would check my pre-check in questions. I would assume it is my real infomraiton and it is good because mines always updated. I would say my spouse infomraiton in good and next of kin is good. Then it has been completed and now I wait to be called. I am glad theres a give or take of 15 minutes and not to worry about it if the call is a little late. I don’t have questions but if I did I would try to call in. 

### Second pass through the first pre-check-in workflow
Now, I'm going to have you go back through the exercise again. This time I'll ask you some questions at each point in the process.

**Text**
- What are your thoughts about what the text is asking you to do?  No it is straightforward. I am familiar with he text. I haven’t done a pre-check in with the va but I have done it with outside providers. That seems pretty standard I think. 

**Introduction page**
- What are your thoughts about the information shared with you on this page? Um lets see. it is good to have the date and time at the top because it is important. The time zone is good, clinic and provider. It might be good to remind people the service type for the appointment. it could be added there. Like the department such as specialist or primary care. Good to know they will call you so you don’t need to worry about a number or click something. I like the blue colored background. The start here is good but it may be good to do something with it but I like the green arrow for questions. I like the informational section here. The expiration date, is it supposed to be for pre-check in?
- Is that an assumption: yes. But it might be good to explain what it is for. 
- Sounds like the expiration date here you recommend to make it clear what it is related to: correct. 

Maybe to add the time of expiration as well. 

**Contact information**
- Are there any other pieces of contact information that you would like to review on this page?  Not that I can think of. 
- Ideally, which phone number would you like a provider to call you at? Well mobile because most don’t have a landline anymore including myself. 

**Confirmation page**
- What are your thoughts about this page? I think the information is good, for the clinic it would be good for the service. I like the time zone and the callout for the provider calling you and provide a 15 minute period before calling the clinic. 
- Expectations for sign in to manage appointment: I assume it would take you to va.gov or myhealthevet to sign in and theres a manage appointment things. It only works dependent on the location. I looked at that prior to. 
- What would you see: The appointment that you have scheduled or a screen like that. 
- What happens if you click on that sign in under contact infomraiton: it would take you to the va.gov website. I would hope it would take me to the app. 
- Ideally you want it to go to the app but initial reaction is that it takes you to va.gov: correct. 
- Thoughts on infomraiton order: Um. The important stuff is at the top. Most wouldn’t scroll to the bottom. Besides that to me honestly I wouldn’t do any of this but it seems okay to me. 

## Second Task: Non-happy path for pre-check-in for a telephone appointment - 30 minutes
- What are your thoughts about this page? Seems like I put y1 to confirm then click the link for pre-check in. then should I fill it out like it’s me.  Alright. So I guess it would have been known during the initial message to have a timeframe to check in or it wouldn’t be available. I am not sure what pre-check in so I would click this. Okay, I mean to the patient to me it wouldn’t be a big deal because I already have an appointment and another few minutes isnt an issue for me but it could slow the provider down. 
- Why do you think you are seeing this page? I assume because I got the message then came back to it. it left it there for a few days. I would not login just because it is a hassle unless it is in my phone app then I might do that. Oh theres the timeframe so it answered my question. Now I would just wait. 

## Post-Task Interview - 9 minutes
- Now that you've seen an example of what this pre-check-in experience for telephone appointments could look like, what are your overall impressions? It looks pretty good, it’s a good tool and will help streamline the questions that the provider will ask. I will say that it is a little minimal for the things that are being asked. I have seen Vanderbilt having a more in depth infomraiton such as medication list and anything you need to sign for the visit. Is that the only infomraiton that is needed from the va that’s okay but it doesn’t seem like a lot honestly. 
- What are your thoughts on calling the experience you just completed “pre-check-in”? Yeah I think it is good, I don’t think I could call it anything else. 
- How do you define it: anything that you can confirm prior to the appointment to save time or provide information.  
- Are there any other items or information that you would like to review and update prior to your appointment? Um, maybe the medications like I have seen that prior to. I don’t know how easy that would be or if the va has the option to do that. It depends on the interface and how you find the exact meds. Besides that I cant think of anything else. 
- Do you think you’d want to complete these updates on a mobile phone or desktop? It would be on my mobile device. 
- If you could change one thing about the experience, what would it be? No, I think it is pretty good even if it just saves a few minutes. 

## Thank-You and Closing - 3 minutes
Well we really appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us today. Your feedback is so helpful to us as we continue to work on the site and make sure it really works for Veterans.

Thanks! Lastly, do you know any other Veterans, caregivers, or service members who might be willing to participate in a future user research session? If Yes: Thank you! I'll have our team send you an email with a little blurb that you can pass along.

Great, well thank you so much again, and enjoy the rest of your day!
