# Participant 5

- I have started recording. I'd like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record my screen and the audio as we talk today? Yes. 

## Warm-up Questions - 10 minutes
Now, I’m going to ask you to think about your last VA medical appointment where you spoke to the physician over the phone.

- What was the type of appointment, such as primary care, cardiology, dermatology, etc.? It was a video appointment. It was with the person that manages my medications, I get confused with the different doctors. The mental health doctor but then I see someone that does prescriptions. 
- Over video and not just over the phone:  The video didn’t always work so it ended up being on the phone. 
- How did you schedule this appointment? Someone had called me to schedule the appointment. They tried to schedule it out in advance. 
- Did anyone (possibly a nurse) call you prior to the appointment to ask you questions? Not that I recall, no. 
- Did you receive any reminder messages about this appointment? A text message, yes. I think it was just one. 
- Can you describe the day of the appointment?
  - Who called who? Um well because it was video I would always get there first and it would take 5-10 minutes. I have not had a successful visit for video and it always ends up on the phone. I don’t think the doctors are on time because they could be behind or it was video issues.
  - Did they need to call you or just use audio: well I have done it both ways. The video wasn’t working so they called my cell phone then one time I had another phone and video at the same time. 
  - Was it on your personal mobile phone, landline, or work phone?
    - If it was on your mobile phone, do you recall if it was a general phone number or a private number?
  - What types of questions do the medical professionals (such as a doctor) ask at the start of your telephone appointments? For instance, do they review your list of medications? General questions like how I am doing. 
- If you need to cancel or reschedule your telephone appointment, how do you normally do that? That’s a complicated one because I try to do it online and I have been able to do it but rescheduling I am still trying to master it. You have to remember the doctors and the code names for the clinics. My local clinic doesn’t have certain doctors. Understand the initials for the codes on my menu, not all of them are there. 
  - Ideally, how would you like to cancel or reschedule? Um, well I do like the idea of cancelling online because that process is easy. Rescheduling would be nice to do online as well instead of them calling. They call at the worst times, if I don’t answer then that’s it. 
  - What do you do if you miss them: I try to remember to call back but then I don’t remember which doctor it is. The doctors I see say the other lady has to call me because they cant make the appointment themselves. 
- What do you like about medical appointments completed over the telephone? Just the convenience from being a parent and having a family it is complicated with running around so I like those appointment because I don’t have to take an extra hour to drive to an appointment when I ne3ed to schedule around motherly duties. 
- What problems have you run into before, during or after a telephone appointment? Following up with them, I tried the email system and I haven’t received a response back. It was hard to get started but the counselor that got me started with the VA helped me get an appointments.
- Hard to get them scheduled: yes, I have a person that verifies if I have issues with eh va. I tell them, who I need to see and they try to get my name in the system for the appointments. 
- What could be improved? Definitely the connectivity issues. I don’t understand the server and the connectivity with videos. Maybe it could be that Web Connect has so many firewalls in it that it isnt consistent. I spend most of my time trying to hear them then we have 10 minutes left. 

## First Task: Happy path for pre-check-in for a telephone appointment - 30 minutes
### SMS and first pass through the first pre-check-in workflow
- At this point, I would like you to share your screen, so we can see the text too. Try to complete the task that the SMS is asking you about. I will just observe you as you try to complete it. I'll ask you questions later. Talk-aloud as you complete the task. Share your thoughts.
- So Y1. Okay. oh I haven’t gotten that before, not for pre-check in. Okay. answer here. I don’t need to make adjustments to that right. Okay. Contacts are fine. Okay. I don’t know why you need the next of kin. It would be convenient to click on it. 

### Second pass through the first pre-check-in workflow
Now, I'm going to have you go back through the exercise again. This time I'll ask you some questions at each point in the process.

**Text**
- What are your thoughts about what the text is asking you to do? It is just asking to confirm the appointment. 
- Would you add or remove anything from this text messages? Um, probably add the reminder for the type of doctor it is for or who it is with. 
- See depart or the doctors name: In my case I would like to see the department. 
- Thoughts on pre-check in text: it is interesting, the pre-check in doesn’t ask certain questions but it could be different for different providers. It could prompt you for the current treatment for medications, it really depends on the appointment. If it is for cardio it could ask if you have had any medical concerns that need addressed. It could be as easy as yes or no questions. 
- What would you do next? 


**Introduction page**
- Can you explain to me what we're looking at? 
- What are your thoughts about the information shared with you on this page? Comparing this to other online medical apps, this pre-check in is just name and address. There aren’t any questions so I don’t know the benefit for precheck in unless it speeds up the process but once you call they ask it again to verify. 
- Wants to make sure it makes the process faster: yes
- What if they didn’t have extra questi8ons and it were this: then I don’t know, I assume it means I checked in but it I don’t know what it does for me.
- What do you think it would be: unless it would be right before the appointment to check in that way to let them know that you are waiting. I don’t see doing this days before would have a benefit. 
- Useful here: it has the clinic so that makes sense. It could be confusing depending on the type of appointment. it says they will call you; I don’t know if it changes because if it is video they don’t call you. This would lead me to believe I am waiting for a call and if they are running behind you don’t know that. 
- Want to know that: Yes, it would be helpful to know. 
- Is there anything missing? Verification of the type of appointment such as video or phone call. Probably the department as well so I know the clinic and what the doctor does because when see so many doctors names start to blur. People that are worried I would assume it’s a HTTPs secure website. It is good for people that are concerns about their infomraiton and reassurance. A lot of people are paranoid. A phone number for the department and extension in case you need to call. if you call the generic number then get one person then transferred again to make the appointment but then they cant make it so they have to call you back. You should be able to call them directly incase something comes up right before the appointment.  

**Contact information**
- What are your thoughts about what this page is asking you? Well it is valid to make sure no information has been changed between the last appointment. I don’t know if we need all of those numbers anymore. For awhile they were calling my house phone but I tell them to call my cellphone. Even though they say they changed it they still call my house phone and that’s why I have missed phone calls. 
- Ideally, which phone number would you like a provider to call you at? Cellphone. 
- (If applicable) what would you do if you noticed your address is wrong because you just moved? I would expect an edit button next to the block to make modifications to the screen maybe in the bottom right hand corner of each block to edit. 

**Confirmation page**
- What are your thoughts about this page? Um, again the department that the doctor is in, a number to call if an emergency came up to cancel. It tells me here you may need to wait 15 minutes but in my time its 15 minutes is still 15 minutes because I ty to be on time. If I make an appointment for 2 and I am waiting until 215 for them to connect. Theres no certainty if they forgot or running behind. You just need to wait for a call, anything could happen between those 15minutes while waiting for the call but I understand that not everything works smoothly. If an appointment is past 15 minutes how longa re you expected to wait. 
- Once you submit these questions, who do you expect will have access to the answers that you entered? I would expect it to go into the database that the doctor can see but I don’t think it is how it works because they don’t see who’s on their schedule someone else makes it. this would eliminate the middleman but I know that’s a job. 
- Is there any other information we should include here?
- What do you do now that you have completed pre-check-in? It would depend if it were days prior or 5 minutes before my appointment. if it were right before my appointment I would assume there would be a link right here. 
- What if it were in advance: I would go to manage all appointments, I know I like technology to setup reminders and how to receive the reminder
-What do you mean reminder: like for this call I set an alarm to remind me on my device. When the text comes in its not right before the call it is the day before the call and  you still need to remember the call.
- Set up reminder though link: well I think it would be convenient to set up the text reminder 3 hours prior to the event. I know that  could be confusing for some. I set the reminders on my phone but I know one stop shopping doesn’t go between devices. 
- Why would you click the link: just to have awareness of other future appointments and see what I have after the 18ths. That’s nothing different then the website when you can look at the appointment on va
- What list do you use: Well I have both he app on my phone and my HealtheVet and they both have different apps. I cant send the secure messages on my phone and it isnt as detailed as the website. So if I need to message a doctor I have to do to the website. 
- The link: if I ne3ed to make corrections I should be able to do it here, this seems like I have to go to another page and they don’t talk to each other, it seems like it won’t be updated into your account so I have another step. Change it here and another website
- Feelings: time consuming. 
- What are your thoughts on the order of the information on this page? Having the numbers is redundant you can put it all in one. You have the link to te site and the number is the same for both lines so you only need to put it once. 
  - Whole page order of what you see: questions about the appointment at the top because this is what it is reminder is for. I am different than the common person, I don’t know why you need to state why we need to update our infomraiton. It doesn’t get you ready for the appointment it just validates you. I would assume the questions would be related to the appointment. If there is not an edit button I would have how to update the contact infomraiton. 

## Second Task: Non-happy path for pre-check-in for a telephone appointment - 30 minutes
Imagine it’s the morning of your appointment, and you decide to click on the link in a text you received a few days ago. You see this page [ show the ‘after midnight /before appointment’ error page]

- What are your thoughts about this page?
- Why do you think you are seeing this page? Either I missed the time lapse or I don’t know that’s a good question. If the link is there for me to do it there must be a time frame when I am able to do the pre-check in. I don’t know why it would not be available.
- When do you expect it to be available: 24 hours before the appointment. 
- What information is helpful (if anything)? The appointment reminder. 
- Is there anything missing or would you change anything?
- Would you want to navigate anywhere else? Why or why not? It depends if it is a video appointment if so then go to the link or a phone number if you have waited more than 15 minutes or the option to reschedule. 

## Post-Task Interview - 9 minutes
- Now that you've seen an example of what this pre-check-in experience for telephone appointments could look like, what are your overall impressions? The pre-check in doesn’t do anything for me it just validates my address. 
  - If applicable As a caregiver, is there anything that we should be aware of?
- What are your thoughts on calling the experience you just completed “pre-check-in”? If it doesn’t relate to my appointment it is just validating my infomraiton. If theres a location of where you will be taking the call, if that’s important for the provider to know because your information shouldn’t be changed that frequently but I am sure there are some that change it often. 
- or not interested in reviewing these items prior to your telephone appointment?
- Are there any other items or information that you would like to review and update prior to your appointment? I think if the pre-check in would be a good prompt to have the question fi there are any new issues because you try to have a list to go in with but you don’t always remember then forgetting to ask the questions. It gives the providers a run down or outline of how the appointment needs to go so all questions are addressed or validate the issues are occurring and to make other appointments for the issue. 
- Do you think you’d want to complete these updates on a mobile phone or desktop? Mobile phone. 
- If you could change one thing about the experience, what would it be? Um, as far as being this application. Um, the feeling that value is being added. A purpose. Doing pre-check in doesn’t make it come any faster you are still waiting for the provider. 
- Do you have any other thoughts on what we talked about today? No additional thoughts from what I have already mentioned about the process. 
- Any questions for me? No I don’t think so. 

## Thank-You and Closing - 3 minutes
Well we really appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us today. Your feedback is so helpful to us as we continue to work on the site and make sure it really works for Veterans.

Thanks! Lastly, do you know any other Veterans, caregivers, or service members who might be willing to participate in a future user research session? If Yes: Thank you! I'll have our team send you an email with a little blurb that you can pass along.

Great, well thank you so much again, and enjoy the rest of your day!
