# P6

Start recording.
- I have started recording. I'd like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record my screen and the audio as we talk today? Yes. 

## Warm-up Questions - 10 minutes
Now, I’m going to ask you to think about your last VA medical appointment where you spoke to the physician over the phone.

- What was the type of appointment, such as primary care, cardiology, dermatology, etc.? It was a 6 month follow up.
- How did you schedule this appointment? Um I called the office. 
- Did anyone (possibly a nurse) call you prior to the appointment to ask you questions? No, they normally do if I go into the office but not for the phone visit. First person talked to was the doctor. 
- Did you receive any reminder messages about this appointment? I think there was an automated call. I think it was 2 days in advance. 
- Can you describe the day of the appointment:
  - Who called who? The doctor called me. 
  - Was it on your personal mobile phone, landline, or work phone? Mobile phone. 
    - If it was on your mobile phone, do you recall if it was a general phone number or a private number? It was the general VA number, number already known to veteran. 
  - What types of questions do the medical professionals (such as a doctor) ask at the start of your telephone appointments? For instance, do they review your list of medications? I mean yeah they went over my medications and lab results. I think it was a few months ago so it is hard to remember. 
- If you need to cancel or reschedule your telephone appointment, how do you normally do that? Um, so if it is within time I will call. I normally just call. 
  - Ideally, how would you like to cancel or reschedule? I don’t even know if there is an option to do it through the portal I normally just keep my appointments. 
  - Prefer that or call: if I have to reschedule I would call but it would be nice to reschedule online. If I cancel I would need to call to schedule anyways. 
- What do you like about medical appointments completed over the telephone? I like them, I always try to schedule appointments outside of work or I have to have my daughter with me. for a while they weren’t allowing children onto the campus, so it was convenient in that case. 
- What problems have you run into before, during or after a telephone appointment? no
- What could be improved? No it was pretty good. I don’t know if it is my doctor or what but it was fine compared to other appointments I had. SO my daughter gets seen, yesterday the doctor was late for the appointment and it was a zoom appointment and I don’t like that for medical appointments to get it set up. Theres no telling if I am waiting for a zoom meeting no one lets me know if they are running behind or if I am waiting for nothing to happen
- Doesn’t happen with va: Yeah I don’t have those issues. 

## First Task: Happy path for pre-check-in for a telephone appointment - 30 minutes
### SMS and first pass through the first pre-check-in workflow

At this point, I would like you to share your screen, so we can see the text too. Try to complete the task that the SMS is asking you about. I will just observe you as you try to complete it. I'll ask you questions later. Talk-aloud as you complete the task. Share your thoughts.

I would confirm by sending Y1. If I were to want to cancel I feel like the next thing is that it will tell me to call but I want to avoid that. What will D1 do. Well I mean the details of the appointment are there already I don’t know if it would tell me who its with. I would want that because if I see many doctors I wouldn’t know what I needed to get ready for. It would be helpful to know who I was seeing but I don’t know if that would be a security issues if someone has my phone. 

That would take us to that other page. This page, then I would put in my last name and DOB then click continue. This is the pre-check in questions. I don’t know what this wants me to do. 

What would you do: answer questions. Okay it is the demographics. If it were no it should open fields to update. 

This is after I clicked no and its asking me the same thing. Oh it goes to the emergency contact, say no to see what it happens,  click no to see what happens. Okay. I thought it would let me update things but it doesn’t. 

Really want to be able to edit here: yes because now its making me do another task besides the appointment. I guess that makes sense because anyone with my phone could do this and change it

Thoughts on sign in to edit: I am pretty active with my account and updating it. I am okay with that but I don’t see a lot of elderly patients that aren’t tech savvy but their family member it would be an easy process for. 

## Second pass through the first pre-check-in workflow
**Pre-check-in Text (second text with link to pre-check-in)**
- What are your thoughts about what the text is asking you to do? It is just confirming or do what I need to. 
- Would you add or remove anything from this text messages? No. for me to put help it would provide an explanations if I were to ask other things. This looks fine. 
- Anything else that would be helpful: no but why it is Y1, N1, and D1. I have text like this before but nothing like Y1. For my dental it just says send C to confirm. Make it simpler. 
- Wording for second text: no, that is clear. 

**Introduction page**
- What are your thoughts about the information shared with you on this page? Um, The blue box with he provider will call you; will it have other text in there. I don’t know if the va do zoom meetings, would there be a link on there. 
- Want link to appointment: yes
- Anything else: No. 

**Contact information**
- What are your thoughts about what this page is asking you? It is clear. 
- Are there any other pieces of contact information that you would like to review on this page? No. 
- Is there anything missing or would you change anything?  No. 
- Ideally, which phone number would you like a provider to call you at? Oh that’s a good one, there should eb a preferred contact wording on there. I have a home phone but I get irritated when people call me on there. 
- Only because you have a phone appointment or always want it: it is more important with phone appointments. those with home phones don’t pay attention to them or check VM’s. 

**Confirmation page**
- What are your thoughts about this page? No 
- Once you submit these questions, who do you expect will have access to the answers that you entered? Um, the provider should have an app or something that pops up with a notification indication. Lets say at this point I am waiting for an appointment and I need to cancel do I just not answer the phone. Let’s say I am pre-checked in and it may be 15 minutes. Say something happened between this and the start do we just not answer the phone or would we call to say I can’t do that appointment
- What would be your guess: if I were to be able to sign in to cancel I don’t know if the message would be received in time and they would eb with someone else and not see it. 
- How far in advance do you expect to do this: I would say 2 days, it makes sense not to do it within 5 minutes of the appointment. if I didn’t get to do this check in part does that effect my appointment. 
- How close do you want to be able to do this: 2 days 
- Not closer: I wouldn’t want to do it same day but no more than 2 days. 
- Cancel even if checked in the day of: I would call if it were same day. 
- If it was updated across va: I thought that was the case but I changed my number recently and the one department did not have it. the sleep clinic was trying to call on the prior number. I thought everything was connected but I was confused. If I go on here to change it will it be across the board. I would think the admin admission would be the same. 
- Where do you want it to update: the whole va. 
- Anything else you want to see here: okay so had I made an appointment, if this just for phone appointments. No, I was just wondering if it were an in office visit. If I weren’t paying attention I would feel like I were doing this then have to drive there if I weren’t paying attention.
- Expectation for in person: I would expect not to get this. They do it there when you check in at the va. I don’t think it would be needed to do this if you were going to check in at the va. If I wanted to skip the kiosk in person can I do this on my phone. 
- Feedback if it were in person: nope. 
- Would you want to go to another section: No. I am wondering if I do this after if I get an email stating it has been confirmed. 
- Do you want one: maybe a text would be okay. 
  - What do you think happens when you click on the "Get travel pay"?
  - What do you think happens when you click on "Sign in to manage all appointments"? Well I mean the links in yes or no in demographics didn’t get me anywhere but I would hope it would lead me to sign in like normal but I don’t think it would just get me to my page because of the security sign in so it would just take me to the sign on page for myhealthevet. If I click on that does it take me to my HealtheVet or take me to another page with infomraiton then another link to click on. I prefer that this would be my hot link instead of another page with a hot link. 
- What are your thoughts on the order of the information on this page? It looks fine. 

## Second Task: Non-happy path for pre-check-in for a telephone appointment - 30 minutes
Imagine it’s the morning of your appointment. You just remembered you were sent an SMS link about the appointment. You see this page, and you decide to complete the question it is asking you. Walk me through what you would do here.

It is clear and understandable. It has already been confirmed I would click on the link. Type in my last name and DOB then click continue. 

- Why do you think you are seeing this page? I don’t know, I did what it told me to do. Maybe I am responding after the appointment time and is no longer valid. I don’t know why this would happen if I were on time for the appointment. 
- What information is helpful? Okay so I guess it is for the sake of the doctor not taking time to review administrative things I could do on my own. I guess it is for the suppose of the patient demographics and to ensure they have the right infomration. What is pre-check in was helpful. 
- Is there anything missing or would you change anything? No it looks good. I am looking for maybe an elderly person that doesn’t want to read or do the tech stuff, they will probably complain about it but I am fine with it. 
- Would you want to navigate anywhere else? Um, so would there be a way to go into the demographics and update it instead of reading this then going somewhere else. 
- Contact infomraiton update: The 800 number would that be a long wait to update infomration I know the va call times are normally long waits. Looking at this I would not want to call due to knowing I will be on hold for so long. I would just log on to va account, would it be myhealthevet or va.gov. I would hope it would be the myhealthevet link. 
- What would be the next thing that you do related to your appointment? I would sign in to ensure it is correct. This process is just eliminating the front desk check in where they would do this. 

## Post-Task Interview - 9 minutes
- Now that you've seen an example of what this pre-check-in experience for telephone appointments could look like, what are your overall impressions? SO its not anything that it mandatory it’s a help us help you and it won’t delay my appointment if I didn’t do it. if I don’t do pre-check in will it be cancelled. It would be optional, its fine just trying to keep the records straight, it’s not a big deal. 
- What are your thoughts on calling the experience you just completed “pre-check-in”?  No
- Can you describe why you would be interested or not interested in reviewing these items prior to your telephone appointment? I mean if it is optional it doesn’t bother me. I wouldn’t want the doctor to go over it because it’s a waste of time. 
- Do you think you’d want to complete these updates on a mobile phone or desktop? A mobile phone. 
- If you could change one thing about the experience, what would it be? Nothing, I mean just the updating. The whole is it your infomraiton, my infomration is already there so if I were to click no I would want to be able to edit it as I am there. 
- Do you have any other thoughts on what we talked about today? No
- Any questions for me?

## Thank-You and Closing - 3 minutes
Well we really appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us today. Your feedback is so helpful to us as we continue to work on the site and make sure it really works for Veterans.

Thanks! Lastly, do you know any other Veterans, caregivers, or service members who might be willing to participate in a future user research session? If Yes: Thank you! I'll have our team send you an email with a little blurb that you can pass along.

Great, well thank you so much again, and enjoy the rest of your day!
