# P8

Start recording.
- I have started recording. I'd like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record my screen and the audio as we talk today? Yes. 

## Warm-up Questions - 10 minutes
Now, I’m going to ask you to think about your last VA medical appointment where you spoke to the physician over the phone.
- What was the type of appointment, such as primary care, cardiology, dermatology, etc.? Well the most recent was a  blood pressure checkup. My nurse at the VA called and reviewed it with me, I have to check my blood pressure 2 weeks prior to the call to share the information with them.  With a nurse over the phone. In the past year I have had a phone call with my primary care. 
- How did you schedule this appointment? Uh, I would have to get online to refresh myself. I think it was a general call about my general health. It took the place of an in-person checkup. At that time they had strict covid protocols. 
- Appointment with nurse scheduled: that was scheduled as a result of a checkup that I had with my primary care toward the end of Feb. The phone call was scheduled in the middle of April. 
- Did anyone (possibly a nurse) call you prior to the appointment to ask you questions? Uh, no I don’t recall interaction prior to the calls. Theres always a reminder but it’s not speaking one on one. 
- Did you receive any reminder messages about this appointment? It was a text and there are normally 2-3 texts prior to the appointment no matter if it is phone, video or in person it always asks for confirmation. 
- Can you describe the day of the appointment:
  - Who called who? It was April 13th and the um, lets see. Well first off they called me. They initiated the phone call unless it is a video. 
  - Was it on your personal mobile phone, landline, or work phone? It was on the cellphone as I recall. 
    - If it was on your mobile phone, do you recall if it was a general phone number or a private number? Well since the number is in my phone book I think it came up to say VA. 
  - What types of questions do the medical professionals (such as a doctor) ask at the start of your telephone appointments? For instance, do they review your list of medications? I don’t think there was a review of medication but it’s always a general discussion about how I feel and my temperament. They are always concerned about any type of feeling other than normal. They are very cautious of downturn in emotional health. 
- If you need to cancel or reschedule your telephone appointment, how do you normally do that? I have only ever cancelled one appointment with the va and it was online which I am able to do on any scheduled calls. That would be my means to cancel. Cancelling online at the website. 
- Cancelled an in person appointment: I believe so but it goes back serval years. 
  - Ideally, how would you like to cancel or reschedule? Um, if it were a matter of rescheduling. I think it was a redundant appointment I cancelled. If I were going to reschedule I would call and reschedule so theres an immediate schedule for the cancelled appointments. 
- What do you like about medical appointments completed over the telephone? It was fine with me. the VA I go to isnt just around the corner its 30 minutes away but if I don’t need to do that I won’t. The relationship I have with the nurses and the primary care, doing something over the phone for my blood pressure and things that don’t require me to be in person I always feel like they have asked and gotten all needed information to go ahead with things in my best interest. As long as it’s something that can be done over the phone and doesn’t require me there I am fine with the phone call. although they are infrequent other than the follow up that doesn’t require the visit. 
- What problems have you run into before, during or after a telephone appointment? I can’t say I have ran into a problem, I always felt like everything was addressed and they felt the same way. Theres never been interruptions or distractions on their part or mine. 

## First Task: Happy path for pre-check-in for a telephone appointment - 30 minutes
### SMS and first pass through the first pre-check-in workflow
At this point, I would like you to share your screen, so we can see the text too. Try to complete the task that the SMS is asking you about. I will just observe you as you try to complete it. I'll ask you questions later. Talk-aloud as you complete the task. Share your thoughts.

I typed Y1 to confirm the appointment and sent it. They want me to do a pre-check in after I confirmed so I will go to that. Put in last name and DOB. Okay, now it wants me to start more questions. Okay. its asking my infomration to confirm, emergency contact, yes. Next of kin, yes. (reading page) That link isnt operational. I am assuming I have completed the pre-check in and it tells me the provider will call me and I may need to wait 15 minutes. Then its sign in to manage all appointments but it’s not operational for this demonstrations. Is there anything else you want me to do on this page.

Is there anything that pops up to you: It was easy and straight forward. 

### Second pass through the first pre-check-in workflow
Now, I'm going to have you go back through the exercise again. This time I'll ask you some questions at each point in the process.

**Pre-check-in Text (second text with link to pre-check-in)**
- What are your thoughts about what the text is asking you to do? No it says to help us complete the pre-check in, provides the link, and it is straightforward from my perspective. 

**Introduction page**
- What are your thoughts about the information shared with you on this page? Um, that one is just again showing the time of the scheduled call and with which doctor. It is asking me to answer additional questions with a link to that. Again for me I think it is straightforward, its not confusing for me. There are certainly man and women that struggle with technology for than I do. I think it is well put together, concise and clear. 

**Contact information**
- What are your thoughts about what this page is asking you? Again asking me contact infomration and asks me to confirm those things that are specific to me. it didn’t ask me which is unusual is my last 4 of my SSN because they always ask that. That’s not on here. Other than that its all here. 
- Ideally, which phone number would you like a provider to call you at? My cell number. 

**Confirmation page**
- Thoughts: No it is confirming I completed the pre-check in and the call I will be receiving along with who it is. It alerts me to the potential wait time and I am able to sign in to manage appointments. 
  - What do you think happens when you click on "Sign in to manage all appointments"? I would expect it would take me to the VA website. That’s just an assumption. If that’s the case the only issue would be finding your way back home. That would require you to sign in with the password and everything. Form my own perspective it may not be wise to have it here. Getting infomraiton without confusing the vet would be the smart money. 
  - Click on sing in: it would make me sign in and it requires a two step verification. A lot of keystrokes to get to where you are going. From my own perspective on this, that’s to much infomration and could confuse the reason for this. Theres a better time/place to do this, maybe before all of the questions. 
- What are your thoughts on the order of the information on this page? No it confirms you are down with he pre-check and then has the call and the infomraiton square of needing to wait. 
- If the sign in takes you somewhere to sign in, those links aren’t needed because concerned about confusion for the veteran: yes, correct. 

## Second Task: Non-happy path for pre-check-in for a telephone appointment - 30 minutes
Imagine it’s the morning of your appointment. You just remembered you were sent an SMS link about the appointment. You see this page, and you decide to complete the question it is asking you. Walk me through what you would do here.

Again it is asking me to confirm the appointment date/time. If I were keeping it I would put Y1 to confirm N1 to cancel and D1 for details. Having not done that, I do not know if the details will bring up details about the appointment but I normally just confirm. 

I would type in Y1 and then send it on the way to confirm, receive confirmation and then I would follow any instruction provided as a result of the confirmation from the va. 

What next: theres a box to help prepare for the appointment so I would do the pre-check in. if I clicked that it takes me to start the pre-check in process. last name and DOB and continue. It says it is no longer available. 
- Why do you think you are seeing this page? I would like to think it was due to not filling in the information  but the only way to confirm that is typing in my name and DOB. It still tells me it is not available but the provider will call me. It allows me to see what the pre-check in is all about. I would be curious; it wouldn’t alarm me because I would still get a phone call. the only reason that would appear is if I did not respond soon enough confirming the appointment. Other than that I don’t know another reason it would have timed out. 
- Next thing: I would do nothing. If I got this page and it did not confirm the provider will call me I would have made a phone call. 

## Post-Task Interview - 9 minutes
- Now that you've seen an example of what this pre-check-in experience for telephone appointments could look like, what are your overall impressions? I have never done a pre-check in like this before. If it is something new or something they want to make available. I think it is fine. It is straightforward and didn’t throw me off. Again for any previous calls I haven’t needed to do a pre-check in. 
- What are your thoughts on calling the experience you just completed “pre-check-in”? I don’t know what else you would call it, it is exactly a pre-check in. Again my own experience is that I haven’t done it so I don’t know if its old or new. I would have followed the link to where it took me and answered the questions. I don’t know what else you would call it.
- Can you describe why you would be interested or not interested in reviewing these items prior to your telephone appointment? Ah, I think the only thing is I don’t know if it would be an appropriate time for pre-check to ask if theres other concerns to give the staff a heads up if something is occurring. 
- Asking veteran health related challenging are happening: yes, we obviously know why the call is taking place. So other infomraiton you want them to know ahead of time would give them a heads up to address the issue along with the reason for the call. 
- Do you think you’d want to complete these updates on a mobile phone or desktop? A desktop or tablet because it’s just easier. You know old eyes; you are streaming through my hearing aids so. Its bigger and easier to type on a keyboard rather than a small screen. 
- If you could change one thing about the experience, what would it be? Well I guess I would have had the camera on so you could see my smiling face. No I really cant think of anything of value other than what we already discussed. 
- Any questions for me? No, I have enjoyed our time together and like the va. they have been wonderful to me and my family so I am always interested in trying to make things better so if I didn’t care for it I would vocalize it. 

## Thank-You and Closing - 3 minutes
Well we really appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us today. Your feedback is so helpful to us as we continue to work on the site and make sure it really works for Veterans.

Thanks! Lastly, do you know any other Veterans, caregivers, or service members who might be willing to participate in a future user research session? If Yes: Thank you! I'll have our team send you an email with a little blurb that you can pass along.

Great, well thank you so much again, and enjoy the rest of your day!
