# P9

Start recording.
- I have started recording. I'd like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record my screen and the audio as we talk today? Yes. 

## Warm-up Questions - 10 minutes
Now, I’m going to ask you to think about your last VA medical appointment where you spoke to the physician over the phone.
- What was the type of appointment, such as primary care, cardiology, dermatology, etc.? Um it was a, well first it was to try to go get blood work then it was for the results. I have also had previously other results over the phone or a follow up.
- How did you schedule this appointment? Um so I know the past two times I scheduled through secure message on my HealtheVet. That was a hassle because I didn’t have access to the provider I needed so I had to message the nurse then they talked to the doctor then we were able to schedule. 
- Only through secure message: I think the provider called me back to verify then we scheduled 
- Did anyone (possibly a nurse) call you prior to the appointment to ask you questions? No.
- Did you receive any reminder messages about this appointment? No. I know that’s one thing I don’t like about the VA; the reminders are late in the mail by 2 weeks and its like oh shit I forgot about it and it was two weeks ago. this past one I did not get a reminder.
  - What type(s) of reminders? Typically I get post cards. This past time I didn’t get anything, I normally get a text to. I just moved to WA from San Diego. I feel like their system was better then the one here because there they will text, email, and call you. This time they just called and was like you have an appointment. This last time there were no reminders. 
- Can you describe the day of the appointment:
  - Who called who? 
  - Was it on your personal mobile phone, landline, or work phone? I use my personal mobile phone number. 
  - Always call on that: yes. 
    - If it was on your mobile phone, do you recall if it was a general phone number or a private number? Well the ones in San Diego it would say VA healthcare but the ones here in WA it is just a 360 and doesn’t say va or anything like that. 
  - What types of questions do the medical professionals (such as a doctor) ask at the start of your telephone appointments? For instance, do they review your list of medications? Well i guess initially they make sure its me so they verify my information then we talk about meds, any upcoming appointments I have in the future, lets see. That’s it other than the details of medical stuff. Like test results, tests, future appointments, other things I want to address or concerned about and that’s about it. 
- If you need to cancel or reschedule your telephone appointment, how do you normally do that? I typically do that, a long time ago I just wouldn’t show up but those appointments can go to someone else so I go online to cancel it and they tell me they will call to reschedule but they don’t so I call them. 
- Call the clinic or who: I call the typical 800 number for the VA and it gives you prompts. Then I talk to an operator and they cancel it for me. 
  - Ideally, how would you like to cancel or reschedule? Online it would be amazing to cancel/reschedule without jumping through hoops. 
- What do you like about medical appointments completed over the telephone? That I don’t need to drive 1.5 hours away. The local va clinic is to full so they aren’t taking new people so I have to drive all the way over there to see my provider. 
- What problems have you run into before, during or after a telephone appointment? Um, none besides from forgetting appointments. 
- What could be improved? Maybe text reminders an hour or two before the appointment because I mean with over the phone or video appointments people don’t need to worry about it until 10 minutes prior but if they send a text an hour or 2 prior that would be good. A text would be cool the morning of or 30 minutes before. 
- Got the text in San Diego: I would get them a week ahead of time and I mean at that point, the va issues appointments 3 months ahead so you will forget. I always have my phone but don’t use the calendar because people are lazy, if you remind me a week ahead of time in my mind I procrastinate. 

## First Task: Happy path for pre-check-in for a telephone appointment - 30 minutes
### SMS and first pass through the first pre-check-in workflow
At this point, I would like you to share your screen, so we can see the text too. Try to complete the task that the SMS is asking you about. I will just observe you as you try to complete it. I'll ask you questions later. Talk-aloud as you complete the task. Share your thoughts.

You know what would be cool, if you guys could make it with details. So like I said you have to wait months for an appointment and when you get this I am like what appointment is it for and then I talk to the doctor about all these things and they called about this other thing and you are like oh shit. The details would prepare me mentally . sometime i have mental health other times I have primary. I get confused with what I need to talk about and D1 would give me the infomraiton to mentally be there. Just the type of appointment like the department would be there. That infomraiton would eb cool because you could be mentally prepared for the appointment rather than figuring out your life. I have anxiety so I tend to shut down so yeah that happens. 

Difference here: well I like this one it tells you the clinic and the last one didn’t have it. you should add the clinic to the last one too. 

Answer questions, yes that’s correct, yes, yes. Okay. I like this, it is pretty easy. 

### Second pass through the first pre-check-in workflow
Now, I'm going to have you go back through the exercise again. This time I'll ask you some questions at each point in the process.

**Pre-check-in Text (second text with link to pre-check-in)**
- What are your thoughts about what the text is asking you to do? 
- Would you add or remove anything from this text messages? No, everything looks fine on here it tells you who to call if you need help. It’s fine. 
- Change anything: no it looks fine and it makes sense. 

**Introduction page**
- What are your thoughts about the information shared with you on this page? This is the details of the appointment with date/time, who’s calling and what they are calling about. I mean I like this page because I haven’t seen it before or anything like it. it prepares you for what’s coming. 
- Is there anything missing? No I don’t think anything else is missing. 

**Contact information**
- What are your thoughts about what this page is asking you? I mean this is verifying that the infomraiton is correct. I like this and I hope if you were to correct this it would correct it on all of va.gov stuff. I know when you change your address you have to call three different people to update it. I like that you can check it and make sure it is accurate. 
- Are there any other pieces of contact information that you would like to review on this page? No I meant his is all of the information people normally ask for. 
- Is there anything missing or would you change anything?
- Ideally, which phone number would you like a provider to call you at? Uh mobile home because I don’t think people own landlines as much as before. I think it would be embarring if the va called your work phone depending on what it is about. I have never given the va my work number to be honest. 
- What would you do if you noticed your address is wrong because you just moved? I would press no and then update it. 
- Imagine would happen if clicked no: it would take you to the edit page to fix the infomraiton that’s wrong. 
- Click no: it just went forward. 

**Confirmation page**
- What are your thoughts about this page? So are we assuming the information was change don the last two. This page tells you the information needed for the appointment. I like they tell you the clinic and the provider. I like sing in to manage appointments but wonder if I can cancel and reschedule
- Where would you want it to take you: I would want it to take you to a page to cancel and reschedule the appointment if needed. 
- Message below about updating infomraiton: Yupp that’s good. Well I think people like it to be simple and going to different pages trying to figure out how to change things or clicking different places. It could trigger anxiety and they would just leave it how it is. Calling people is sometimes not what people want to do so they will just leave it how it is. Being able to do it online would be easier and less stress inducing. IF you call the va you could be on hold for 1-2 hours and you could do it online for it to update everywhere. 
- Anything you want to change or remove: If it is an emergency contact emergency help and they might need help so if it is a serious emergency to contact the local ER
- When would you want to do this: The pre-check in doesn’t do anything because they reverify it when you call. it just takes time out of your life. I would be fine if it were 15 minutes prior to the appointment and it told the provider I was waiting. Times when you do this with other medical stuff then they still ask you the same things when they talk to you so why fill it out. 
- What would make it valuable: I don’t think so the way it is now it makes sense if it is a precheck right before an appointment. Form my experience appointments are in a time crunch so this takes time away, if we could check in prior it would give more time to the provider to talk. If you do this then they ask the same thing and it takes time, I just did it then doing it again with them is repetitive. 
- What are your thoughts on the order of the information on this page? I see the crisis line at the top now but normally I don’t read it because theres banners I just ignore. I would put the veteran crisis line towards the middle or near update information or sign in to manage so it is visible. I like the flow and the information. 

## Second Task: Non-happy path for pre-check-in for a telephone appointment - 30 minutes
Imagine it’s the morning of your appointment. You just remembered you were sent an SMS link about the appointment. You see this page, and you decide to complete the question it is asking you. Walk me through what you would do here.

I remember getting these, they send this but not right before the appointment or the same day. Of course the Y1 confirmed, I do that to confirm it. sometimes I think if you don’t confirm it they cancel it on you. The precheck in I haven’t gotten before. It makes sense. I would click on the link to see what the documents are. I can click on it ooo. Then I enter my last name and DOB. I thought it was just a picture. 
- Why do you think you are seeing this page? I like this page actually. Yeah I mean well knowing me I would click everything while waiting just to read. I like this it tells me I have an appointment I am checked in so they wont ask me 1000 questions. Theres more information if I need it. 
- Assume provider knows you are ready: yes
- What if I tell you this is just a review of information: It says pre-check in so I assume by doing it that they are getting a ding on their screen saying the documents have been completed like a que. Like they are waiting for you. 

## Post-Task Interview - 9 minutes
- Now that you've seen an example of what this pre-check-in experience for telephone appointments could look like, what are your overall impressions?
- What are your thoughts on calling the experience you just completed “pre-check-in”? It works, it is technically what it is. You are completing the tastes prior to checking in but it only makes sense to do it if you don’t do it again. 
- If you could change one thing about the experience, what would it be? I mean I don’t think I would change anything. I would go with task two better but other than that it flows well. It gives the information that you need. 
- Do you have any other thoughts on what we talked about today? NO I mean I hope it gets implemented. It flows, makes sense, and makes it easier to remember and keep track of these things. 

## Thank-You and Closing - 3 minutes
Well we really appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us today. Your feedback is so helpful to us as we continue to work on the site and make sure it really works for Veterans.

Thanks! Lastly, do you know any other Veterans, caregivers, or service members who might be willing to participate in a future user research session? If Yes: Thank you! I'll have our team send you an email with a little blurb that you can pass along.

Great, well thank you so much again, and enjoy the rest of your day!
