# Caregiver interview

_P7, Friday August 30, 2019, 11am ET_

View the [research plan](./research-plan.md).

## Introduction

#### Moderator: Thank you for joining us today! My name is Riley. I am a designer and researcher for VA.gov and I also have some colleagues on the line observing and taking notes. Today we're going to talk about your experience applying to the VA’s Program of Comprehensive Assistance for Family Caregivers to receive support caring for a Veteran with disabilities.

Before we start, I want to mention a few things:

- This entire session should take about 45 minutes I want to be sure not to keep you much longer, so I may occasionally prompt you with the next question or topic.

- In this session, we want to hear your honest opinions. So please let us know what you think, and any ideas on how we can improve this process for you. We are not testing your abilities or knowledge in any way. We want to improve the caregiver benefit application process to better meet Veteran and caregivers' needs. I will not be offended by any opinions you express, and I welcome your feedback.

- If for any reason and at any time you want to stop the session, please let me know. You will not be penalized in any way if we need to stop.

- Are you comfortable if I record my screen and audio as we talk today? We use the recordings to confirm that we have captured your opinions accurately.

**Caregiver:** That's fine.

## Warm-up Questions

#### Moderator: Can you tell me a little about yourself?

**Caregiver:** Yes ma'am. I have 4 kiddos, I'm married. So... I work as a communications director. I don't know, what else? I'm in Florida. It's nice and hot, probably... well a little cool because of the storm. But probably close to 90. 96. Nice and hot and humid.

#### Moderator: Tell me about your experience with technology?

**Caregiver:** I use tons of technology. I use my phone, and my laptop for work every day. For my kids, I help them with their schoolwork on the computer for their school and we use technology for everything. Pay the bills, everything.

#### Moderator: Do you have any challenges using computers or mobile devices? If so, what are they?

**Caregiver:** No, not really. Just... every once in awhile you gotta clear the cache or the calendar doesn't sync. I do dispatch and it is frustrating when the calendar is behind because we have multiple users. The mainstream stuff, frustrations.

#### Moderator: Are you the caregiver of a Veteran? 

**Caregiver:** I am. I applied for the caregiver program... It was quite awhile ago, back in... 2014. Or early 2015.
   
## Questions: Caregivers *NOT* receiving VA benefits

#### Moderator: Can you tell me a little bit about how you became a caregiver and the Veteran you currently help?

**Caregiver:** Um... He was medically retired. So we met with the VA on base after he was rated and everything. Where did we go? Somehow we ended up at the Oklahoma City VA, we lived in TX. The closest big VA hospital was in OKC. He had an appointment for something and they said, "Oh you can apply to be a caregiver if you are taking care of him and helping him out." I don't remember doing anything online at the time. We had a lady call us and I did a phone interview. I don't remember if I did stuff online. I feel like I did stuff on physical papers and emailed them in.

#### Moderator: When you were applying - was your husband active duty or already separated?

**Caregiver:** Already separated.

#### Moderator: So you were living in TX and the closest center was in OKC?

**Caregiver:** Yes we lived in Wichita Falls, TX and the closest one is in Oklahoma City.

#### Moderator: What are some of the biggest challenges that you and the Veteran you care for face?

**Caregiver:** _[Clears throat]_ I think mostly now, it's keeping him healthy and it's hard because [things - _not sure, connection cut out_] completely exhausts him. Just maintaining his health now. He is doing better now and doesn't spend nearly as much time in a wheelchair so things have gotten a little better, but maintaining the mood, exhaustion, and pain. Those are probably the biggest things. 

Just helping him to feel better so he can participate in our family the way he wants to and overcome those challenges of having pain all the time. He doesn't want to sit around the house all day and do nothing because that puts him in a bad mood too. He wants to contribute and things like that, so he has to push through those challenges to be able to do that.

#### Moderator: Sounds like there's been a little improvement, I'm happy to hear that. How did you find out about VA benefits for caregivers?
   
**Caregiver:** Oh gosh. Um... I think... I talked to that lady and did the interview, they said I wasn't approved. We went to the VA in OKC like once, but were quickly planning to move. We went to the local clinic in Wichita Falls, the community based clinic which was horrible and awful. We just kind of detached and tried to do our own thing because the VA is so hard to get information from. 

The only thing we've had a lot of luck with is the education part. That seems easy to navigate. But the medical part is a nightmare. The clinic, we went 3 times at Wichita Falls community clinic, and they were just so rude and awful that we were like, "Ok we're not going back there." 

We have the benefit of having Tri Care [_health insurance_] because he's retired. We can choose a doctor that gives a crap about us. We have that benefit and a lot of people don't. We chose that and pay copays so we can have better care. 

That's all I'd heard about the caregiver thing until... We were trying to get a... My husband needed an adaptive bike. He couldn't ride a regular bike. He had an advocate when he retired, who helped us. We emailed her to ask if she knew anything about adaptive bikes - "Do you have any resources for us?" She sent us the AFW2 info. Not the Wounded Warrior project but the Air Force wounded warriors. We ended up doing a week-long retreat with them and that's where I connected with other caregivers. I learned a lot of stuff that week, he spent a lot of time doing adaptive sports.
 
It was a good opportunity for us to be around other Veterans. We were still in Wichita Falls, and everybody there was still active. It makes you feel pretty isolated when no one else is going through the same things you are. We made friends through AFW2 and through that I joined the Hidden Heroes Facebook group, which is how I found this. That was pretty much our sole resource. The Facebook group posts a ton of resources.
 
Then we moved to Florida, then he tried to go to the VA 2 or 3 times and it was so ridicluous. They would tell him it's an emergency situation, and that he had to come in right now - "We have to ultrasound your liver, and it's really bad," and he would get there and the ultrasound equipment would be down. So we would have to reschedule 6 weeks later, then they would call us all over again.
 
The closest VA here is 45 min away in the crazy traffic. It's really not worth our time because we have another option. We've found local doctors who have helped. The VA is such a headache and frustration and you have to drive all the way down there and spend hours and hours. Then he's frustrated and angry and upset, and you have to recuperate from all that ridiculousness and it's just too much.
 
It is what it is, so.
 
#### Moderator: Did you ever do some research through Googling or anything?

**Caregiver:** Every once in awhile. They'll post links, then I'll click them and I look through. Most of the time when I Google something, I get lost. The VA website isn't too bad. Mostly we use va.edu or log into eBenefits. But most of the time if I'm looking for something specific, I will search that Facebook group or I'll ask in there because there are people there who will tell you where to go. 

And they have a resource page. So I know, just for a recent example, there was a news article that I saw where they are going to get rid of the loans. If you are 100% permanent, total [_disability rated?_], they will get rid of your loans. I saw that on Facebook, and it applies to my husband and I wondered how it works. I posted a screenshot of the article to the group and within 5 minutes someone had posted the official link to the page on the VA website and I clicked through and read all about it.
  
#### Moderator: I'm glad you found that resource.
  
**Caregiver:** That is my go-to resource for that. There's lots of stuff like there's a lady who posted that's in my town, and she has a local group for people who are 50% and higher. It's a specific gorup and they do things for the spouses, caregivers, couples. It's local to 30-45 minutes away. It's local stuff here we can do together that's catered towards any special needs that we would have. I just found that and became a part of that as well.

#### Moderator: Now, I’m going to share my screen and show you a PDF version of the paper application form.

*Share screen and show [paper form](https://www.va.gov/health-care/forms/vha-10-10CG.pdf).*

#### Moderator: Do you remember filling out this form?

**Caregiver:** Yeah I think so, it looks familiar.

#### Moderator: Here is the section for filling in the Veteran information, a signature box. Then for primary and secondary caregivers. You mentioned filling it out by hand, is that right?

**Caregiver:** Pretty certain I filled it out by hand and took pictures and emailed it to them.

#### Moderator: Do you remember filling out the sections separately?

**Caregiver:** I am certain I felled out everythign for him.

#### Moderator: What was the process like getting the signature?

**Caregiver:** I just had him sign it.

#### Moderator: So you had it printed and you both signed it.

**Caregiver:** I printed it on our home computer. I have had this camera scanner app forever. You take a picture and it makes it look like a document instead of a picture and puts it in PDF format. So I have used that forever.

#### Moderator: What were the hardest parts about it?  

**Caregiver:** None that I remember, seemed pretty straightforward.

#### Moderator: What happened after you applied?

**Caregiver:** I scanned it in and they called to set up a phone interview? Trying to remember if we went to the OKC VA one time. We may have gone there for a meeting. I know that we sat in someone's office and talked about it. Maybe we did a phone interview, then maybe we drove 2 hours for OKC and had an interview or meeting and they sent us a letter or something later.

#### Moderator: When would you have expected to see the results of the application?

**Caregiver:** Hopefully in 2 weeks.

#### Moderator: After you learnd about the application status, what did you do?

**Caregiver:** I guess we just... I think we were like well, Okay I guess that won't work out. So we were just trying to decide how we were going to do that. Was I just going to work, or...? He was supposed to be able to get social security too but we got denied for that. 

_[baby cries]_

**Caregiver:** So um, I think we just... I don't know. We had already heard that it was hard to be considered a caregiver. It's hard to qualify because he's not paraplegic or wheelchair bound. He's not... He wasn't disabled enough. 

#### Moderator: Did you look into an appeal or anything?

**Caregiver:** No.

#### Moderator: If you were to apply again, what would be the best method?

**Caregiver:** I like it when we did the thing for our house loan when they send you an email with the document, it has the spots you need to fill out set up - those electronic forms that you can sign on the track pad and you just sign it and email it back. Or a lot of them already just send it back. That would've been awesome and super easy.

#### Moderator: What would be your ideal follow up after you submit?

**Caregiver:** If we're going to fill out the paperwork and have an interview, it would be nice if someone gave us a call and told us the decision.

## Additional Questions 

#### Moderator: If there was a way to create an online portal for caregivers, what kind of resources would you hope to find?

**Caregiver:** Probably just... things that can help people because what I see the most of, people asking for help. It would be nice to be able to go to one spot and say, maybe I'm a caregiver and here's what it entitles me to. 

And here's a section for, "Well we didn't quite qualify, but there are community resources where you can look it up by area."

I see all the time people need food, emergency assistance with their electricity bill, they lost their job. Some of them only live on the VA income and have too much care they have to give to their spouse. It would be nice to see all that in an easy way. 

When you are going crazy and everything is hitting the fan and you're stressed out, it's hard. It would be nice if you could search by zip code and it would have resouces listed - like, here's a link to a local food bank in my zip code and making sure that the info is up to date. So you're not sending someone a link to 3 food banks and you call them and they are all 3 closed. 

We already have so much stress on our plates, taking care of the kids and husband and it's exhausting and overwhelming to find everything else.

#### Moderator: If you were to search for those resources online what terms would you use?

**Caregiver:** I don't know, probably... "Resources for Veteran caregivers" is probably what I would search. 

#### Moderator: Veterans can access certain benefits like refilling prescriptions and managing VA health care appointments online at VA.gov. Do you manage these benefits for the Veteran that you care for?

I certainly do but not through the VA. We don't use the VA but I do all of that through our local doctor. If he needs the prescriptions, I call, make the appointments, go to the appointments with him so I know what's going on and what the docor says. 

So yeah I manage all of that, and especially when he first got out and we were going all the time - I went all the time and took notes. I make all the phone calls. I'm the secretary. He gives out *my* email and phone number.

#### Moderator: Is there anything else that you would like to share with us about your experience as a caregiver?

**Caregiver:** Um... I don't know. No, I don't think so. I don't think the application process was hard. 

It was a little weird, I think. I remember in the interview, it was a weird mix, because she asked, "Can your husband take care of the kids?" And she said, "We're not going to turn you into CPS." It's an awkward thing, and my husband has severe migraines. So I might be at work and he might get a migraine while I wasn't there. And if he gets one, he is just done so he is there but he isn't necessarly coherent. He could probably get them out if there was a fire, but maybe they'd be getting him out... 

It was awkward having to admit to someone how much you struggle and that fear of them judging and saying, "Oh we'll take your kids away," or, "Your husband isn't fit to be with your kids." 

My oldest is 14 and is fine to watch after the youngest one and microwave mac and cheese and stuff. That part was the only part that stressed me out. You don't want people judging you or saying you're unfit, but you have to do what you have to do. I had to work. I think that was the only awkward part.

#### Moderator: Do you have any suggestions on how the process could be less stressful or make you feel more comfortable?

**Caregiver:** No, I think what she did was fine. She explained, "Hey I'm not here to..." I think it was okay because she said, "I'm not judging you. We just need to know what his limits are and how much help you need." 

I think it was okay, it was just a crappy situation and I don't think you could make it more comfortable. I don't know for sure though, and I dont know what the rules are. I know when you work for the hospital you're a mandated reporter.  I don't know if the VA benefit interviewers are mandated reporters and I don't know how that would work out, but it makes me nervous. There are lots of opinions on parenting and kids and how it should be done.

When I was a kid I came home and stayed for 3 hours by myself because my mom was a single mom. I made my own dinner and she worked late shifts. That is considered taboo now, know what I'm saying?

Just maybe... People would be afraid to be truthful about how much help they really need unless they are really comfortable knowing that person is not going to take their kids.


## Wrap up

#### Moderator: We really appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us today. 

- Your feedback is so helpful to us as we continue to work on the Caregiver Benefit Application and make sure it works for your needs.

- As a thank you for your participation, we'd like to offer you a $50 thank-you gift.

- Is it ok for our contractor Perigean to send that gift to the same email we used to communicate with you about scheduling this session?

**Caregiver:** Yes, that is fine.

#### Moderator: Lastly, would you like to share this feedback opportunity with other caregivers and Veterans? If so, I can send you an email with a little blurb so you can easily connect folks to our team.

**Caregiver:** I can, I can share the link in my Facebook group and tell them it wasn't super painful, it wasn't stressful. I don't know what they will say.

[Wrap up]
