platform/working-with-vsp/vsp-collaboration-cycle/vsp-collaboration-cycle.md, before:

# VSP Collaboration Cycle

So you’re starting a new project — congratulations! This is a guide to required VSP collaboration points, written for VFS teams building on VA.gov. VSP is here to support VFS teams to ensure that you are able to deliver reliable digital services that are continuously improving and work for people. 

##### Table of contents
* [Project Kickoff](#project-kickoff)
* [Design Intent Collaboration](#design-intent-collaboration)
* [Usability Testing Prep](#usability-testing-prep)
* [Research Plan Review](#research-plan-review)
* [Information Architecture (IA) Request](#information-architecture-ia-request)
* [Analytics Request](#analytics-request)
* [Contact Center Review](#contact-center-review)
* [Privacy and Security Review](#privacy-and-security-review)
* [Staging Review](#staging-review)
* [Full Accessibility and 508 Office Audit](#full-accessibility-and-508-office-audit)
* [Post-launch Check-in](#post-launch-check-in)



# Project Kickoff
Help VSP support you more efficiently and effectively throughout the collaboration cycle by connecting in the early stages of your project. Introduce your work initiative in this meeting so we can identify any areas that may need additional support. 

## Timing
- Development stage: **Define**
- When you understand the problem you’re trying to solve (you don’t yet need to know exactly how you’re going to solve it).

## Collaboration format: 30-minute meeting

### Request process
**VFS Product Manager** initiates scheduling by submitting ZenHub issue — use `Project Kickoff` issue template. VSP will schedule the meeting. Meeting is recorded.

### Meeting attendees
- VFS brings: your Product Manager, DEPO PO, and anyone else you want to invite. 
- If VFS team is part of VSA contract, also include as optional: Jennifer, Tze, Shawna, Mickin
- VSP brings (all optional): design (Crystabel & Emily), accessibility (Trevor), content (Peggy), information architecture (Mikki), and QA (Peter) practice area reviewers as well as product managers (Megan & Andrea) and analytics (Joanne). VSP’s DEPO co-leads (Kevin) are included as optional.

### Artifact inputs 
You bring: 
- An explanation of the problem space
- A rough draft of product outline (stored in appropriate GitHub `va.gov-team/products` folder)
- Any other artifacts you have so far (such as lo-fi prototypes)
- You **do not** need to prepare a presentation

### Outcomes and artifact outputs
We’ll work together to identify any areas of your project that need additional support or collaboration. Follow-ups and areas to expand upon should be called out in this meeting and scheduled after the fact. 

## For further support at this point
Reach out via Slack #vfs-platform-support with any questions, and you’ll be directed to the correct resource.

---

# Design Intent Collaboration
Present a draft of your ideas to designers. Learn about existing design components and research findings relevant to the problem space. Discuss accessibility considerations with accessibility experts.

## Timing
- Development stage: **Define**
- When you are brainstorming and drafting your solution approach.

## Collaboration format: 30-minute meeting

### Request Process
**VFS Designer or Product Manager** initiates scheduling by submitting ZenHub issue — use `Design Intent Collaboration` template. VSP will schedule the meeting. 

### Meeting attendees
- VFS brings: Designer(s) from your product team; DEPO PO
- If VFS team is part of VSA contract, also include as optional: Jennifer, Shawna
- Design experts bring: DEPO platform design expert (Kevin H - optional); VSP design (Emily & Crystabel) and accessibility (Trevor) practice area reviewers

### Artifact inputs
You bring:
- Whiteboard sketch or other lo-fi prototypes or mockups
- A general idea of the toolset you intend to use in your designs

Design experts provide after the meeting:
- A list of relevant design components and patterns (with URLs)
- A list of existing applications or pages with similar execution or patterns with URLs in staging
- A list of relevant test user accounts for auth apps

### Outcomes and artifact outputs 
- Design and accessibility expert feedback (including relevant components, patterns, apps, test accounts, existing research, and notes on accessibility approach) is documented in ZenHub. 
- Product designers have a thorough understanding of other existing and in progress products, components, and patterns, to pull from in the VA.gov ecosystem. 

## For further support at this point
Reach out to design experts in Slack #design.

---

# Usability Testing Prep
Meet with VSP practice area reviewers to catch anything in your prototypes or mockups that may detract from usability testing. Ensure that you're on track to deliver a successful product for Veterans.

## Timing
- Development stage: **Discover**
- When you’ve determined your initial solution approach and you have prototypes or mockups ready for user testing.

## Collaboration format: 30-minute meeting 

### Request Process
**VFS Product Manager** initiates scheduling by submitting ZenHub issue — use `Usability Testing Prep` template. VSP will schedule the meeting. (Suggested scheduling: during VSP reviewer office hours)

### Artifact inputs
You bring: 
- Prototypes or mockups prepped for user testing
- A draft of your test cases and/or test plan (for QA practice area review) 
- **_Please provide these artifacts at least 2 days before the scheduled review meeting._**

VSP brings:
- Feedback on the artifacts you’ve provided from the following practice areas: design, accessibility, content, QA, and optional: information architecture (IA), product, analytics, engineering

### Outcomes and artifact outputs
- VSP’s feedback regarding the artifacts you provided is documented in ZenHub.
- We’ll use the 30-minute meeting to go over high-level feedback for each practice area, and identify areas that might need further support. 

### Meeting attendees
- VFS brings: your Product Manager, your DEPO PO, and anyone else from your product team that you think should be included at this point (suggested: your designer(s) and content writer(s)). 
- If VFS team is part of VSA contract, also include as optional: Jennifer, Shawna, Tze
- VSP brings: design (Crystabel & Emily), accessibility (Trevor), content (Peggy), information architecture (Mikki), and QA (Peter) practice area reviewers as well as product managers (Megan & Andrea).

## For further support at this point
Reach out to Platform team in Slack #vfs-platform-support with any questions, and you’ll be directed to the correct resource.

---

# Research Plan Review
Get feedback from DEPO's research expert on your research plan and script. 

## Timing
- Development stage: **Discover**
- A week before you plan to conduct research

## Collaboration format: asynchronous

### Request Process
**VFS Product Manager** message Lauren Alexanderson (@Lalexanderson) with your research plan and script

### Artifact inputs
You bring:
- Your complete research plan (resources located in [research folder](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/tree/master/platform/research/planning)).

### Outcomes and artifact outputs
- DEPO's research expert provides feedback on your research plan
- As applicable, approval is granted to begin recruiting participants via Perigean 

## For further support at this point
Message Lauren Alexanderson (@Lalexanderson) in Slack or reach out in the #design channel.

---


# Information Architecture (IA) Request
Collaborate with VSP’s Information Architect to finalize your URL and other key details before developing in staging. VSP’s Information Architect has a high-level view of the entire VA.gov experience and can help ensure that your new or updated content fits well in that ecosystem.

## Timing
- Development stage: **Discover**
- After usability testing, when you’re ready to begin building in staging

## Collaboration format: asynchronous

### Request process
**VFS Product Manager** initiates by completing `IA Request` template in ZenHub. VSP Information Architect provides feedback and finalized information architecture asynchronously on the ZenHub ticket.

### Artifact inputs
You bring: 
- A completed information architecture worksheet (in ZenHub template)

### Outcomes and artifact outputs
VSP provides:
- Finalized information architecture attributes

## For further support at this point
Reach out to Information Architecture resources (@Mikki @Megan Kelley) in Slack #vfs-platform-support with any questions.

---

# Analytics Request
Begin setup of Google Tag Manager and ForeSee so we can understand how Veterans are using VA.gov.

## Timing
- Development stage: **Discover**
- After you have defined your KPIs and are determining which frontend events would be beneficial to track on your application before you build.

## Collaboration Format: 30-minute kickoff meeting

### Request process
**VFS Product Manager** submits request using `Analytics Implementation and QA Request` template for Google Tag Manager implementation. Slack #vfs-analytics for ForeSee setup.

### Meeting attendees 
You Bring: 
- Google Tag Manager implementation: Your Product Manager, DEPO PO, and point of contact for frontend engineering
- ForeSee implementation: no meeting required; asynchronous collaboration

VSP Brings: 
- Google Tag Manager implementation: Google Tag Manager specialists
- ForeSee implementation: no meeting required; asynchronous collaboration

### Artifact inputs
You bring: 
* Google Tag Manager 
   * Objectives and definitions of success (e.g. a specific user interaction or final URL) that is deemed as success for the product)
   * Authenticated user logins for testing, when applicable
   * The URL(s) for your product including any unauthenticated landing pages that precede the start of the tool; for example, if your product is a multi-step veteran-facing tool, please provide the full path of URLs along noting any conditional logic that would take users to a different branch of URLs for the tool 
ForeSee: The final staging and production URLs for pages you want the survey to appear on
* VSP brings: 
   * Examples of goal funnels and conversions
   * Suggestions and feedback on event naming
   * Google Tag Manager configuration services
   
### Outcomes and artifact outputs
* VSP will configure Google Tag Manager so that it will translate the code into a readable format for Google Analytics reporting
* VSP will configure the surveys published on your VA.gov URLs
* VSP’s support for analyzing resulting data

## For further support at this point
Reach out to analytics experts on Slack via #vfs-platform-support

---

# Contact Center Review
Ensure that VA call center representatives are prepared to help Veterans troubleshoot VA.gov.

## Timing
- Development stage: **Build**
- At least 4 weeks prior to launch for a brand new service, or at least 2 weeks prior to launch for a new feature in an existing service. The build on staging should be as complete and ready to launch as possible, but the priority is to begin this review with the required lead time (4 or 2 weeks).

## Collaboration format: asynchronous

### Request process
**VFS Product Manager** follows instructions on the [Contact Center Review page](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/blob/master/platform/call-center/request-contact-center-review.md) to request a Contact Center review.

### Artifact inputs
You bring (refer to [Contact Center Review page](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/blob/master/platform/call-center/request-contact-center-review.md) for further instruction): 
- Product Guide
- Product Video

### Outcomes and artifact outputs
- Receive feedback on the artifacts you created for Contact Center trainings
- Ensure that VA Contact Centers are prepared to help Veterans troubleshoot your product

## For further support at this point
Reach out to call center leads in Slack via #vsp-contact-center-support or contact @chante or @joanne in Slack.

---

# Staging Review
Get feedback on your completed build before rolling out to users.

## Timing
- Development stage: **Build**
- When you're ready to begin rollout.

## Collaboration format: 30-minute meeting

### Request Process
**VFS Product Manager** requests meeting using the `Staging Review` template. VSP will schedule the meeting. (Suggested scheduling: during VSP reviewer office hours)

### Artifact inputs
You bring: 
- Access information for the tool or feature in staging
- A link to your test cases/test plan in TestRail with test execution logs
- A [Release Plan](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/blob/master/platform/product-management/release-plan-template.md) with the "Planning" sections completed (in each section: Phase I, Phase II, Go Live)
- **_Please provide these artifacts at least 2 days before the scheduled review meeting._**

VSP brings:
- Feedback on the artifacts you’ve provided from the following practice areas: design, accessibility, content, QA, and optional: product, analytics, engineering

### Outcomes and artifact outputs
- VSP’s feedback regarding the artifacts you provided is documented in ZenHub.
- We’ll use the 30-minute meeting to go over high-level feedback for each practice area, and identify areas that might need further support. 

### Meeting attendees
- VFS brings: your Product Manager, your DEPO PO, and anyone else from your product team that you think should be included at this point 
- If VFS team is part of VSA contract, also include as optional: Jennifer, Shawna, Tze
- VSP brings: design (Crystabel & Emily), accessibility (Trevor), content (Peggy), and QA (Peter) practice area reviewers as well as product managers (Megan & Andrea). Optional: analytics (Joanne).

## For further support at this point
Reach out to Platform team in Slack #vfs-platform-support with any questions, and you’ll be directed to the correct resource.

---

# Privacy and Security Review
Ensure your feature meets VSP's privacy and security standards.

## Timing
- Development stage: **Build**
- When you're ready to begin rollout.

## Collaboration format: 60-minute meeting

### Request process
**VFS Lead Engineer or Product Manager** uses `Privacy and Security Review` template

### Artifact inputs
- An architecture diagram, showing involved systems + data flows
- Description of any new publicly-exposed endpoints (vets-api or otherwise)
- Description of any new interactions with dependent services (i.e. vets-api --> ???)
- Description of any other security hotspots you're concerned about / want extra attention on

### Outcomes and artifact outputs
- VSP provides a list of concrete action items the need to be addressed, or approval to roll out

### Meeting attendees 
- VFS brings: your lead engineer, your Product Manager (optional), your DEPO PO, and whoever on your team can speak to the technical architecture and security concerns
- VSP brings: engineering experts (Andrew, and another engineer that Andrew identifies as needed)

## For further support at this point
Reach out to Platform team in Slack #vfs-platform-support with any questions, and you’ll be directed to the correct resource.

---

# Full Accessibility and 508 Office Audit
Accessibility experts complete a full accessibility audit and coordinate with the VA’s 508 office for feedback and approval.

## Timing
- Development stage: **Validate**
- As soon as your product is in production (can happen during a phased rollout after the first phase). 

## Collaboration format: asynchronous

### Request Process
**VFS Product Manager** use `Full Accessibility & 508 Office Audit` template

### Artifact inputs
You bring:
- Access instructions for your product in staging
- A link to your test cases/test plan in TestRail with test execution logs   

### Outcomes and artifact outputs 
- Accessibility experts identify any outstanding accessibility concerns with your product
- VA's 508 office reviews and approves (as applicable) your product

## For further support at this point
Reach out to accessibility experts in #vetsgov-accessibility in Slack.

---

# Post-launch Check-in 
Now that you’ve released your product and gathered some initial KPI data, evaluate your success and begin your plan for iteration. 

## Timing
- Development stage: **Validate**
- One month after "Go Live."

## Collaboration format: asynchronous

### Request Process
**VFS Product Manager** link to your completed Release Plan in Slack #vfs-all-teams and tag @AndreaHewitt

### Artifact inputs
You bring: 
- Completed [Release Plan](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/blob/master/platform/product-management/release-plan-template.md) with results populated

### Outcomes and artifact outputs
Begin thinking about how your product should be evolving based on the results you've reported.

## For further support at this point
Reach out in #vfs-all-teams with questions

Commit message:

Update vsp-collaboration-cycle.md (#5841)
Adding links to the accessibility artifacts for the Staging Review and Full Accessibility Audit

platform/working-with-vsp/vsp-collaboration-cycle/vsp-collaboration-cycle.md, after:

# VSP Collaboration Cycle

So you’re starting a new project — congratulations! This is a guide to required VSP collaboration points, written for VFS teams building on VA.gov. VSP is here to support VFS teams to ensure that you are able to deliver reliable digital services that are continuously improving and work for people. 

##### Table of contents
* [Project Kickoff](#project-kickoff)
* [Design Intent Collaboration](#design-intent-collaboration)
* [Usability Testing Prep](#usability-testing-prep)
* [Research Plan Review](#research-plan-review)
* [Information Architecture (IA) Request](#information-architecture-ia-request)
* [Analytics Request](#analytics-request)
* [Contact Center Review](#contact-center-review)
* [Privacy and Security Review](#privacy-and-security-review)
* [Staging Review](#staging-review)
* [Full Accessibility and 508 Office Audit](#full-accessibility-and-508-office-audit)
* [Post-launch Check-in](#post-launch-check-in)



# Project Kickoff
Help VSP support you more efficiently and effectively throughout the collaboration cycle by connecting in the early stages of your project. Introduce your work initiative in this meeting so we can identify any areas that may need additional support. 

## Timing
- Development stage: **Define**
- When you understand the problem you’re trying to solve (you don’t yet need to know exactly how you’re going to solve it).

## Collaboration format: 30-minute meeting

### Request process
**VFS Product Manager** initiates scheduling by submitting ZenHub issue — use `Project Kickoff` issue template. VSP will schedule the meeting. Meeting is recorded.

### Meeting attendees
- VFS brings: your Product Manager, DEPO PO, and anyone else you want to invite. 
- If VFS team is part of VSA contract, also include as optional: Jennifer, Tze, Shawna, Mickin
- VSP brings (all optional): design (Crystabel & Emily), accessibility (Trevor), content (Peggy), information architecture (Mikki), and QA (Peter) practice area reviewers as well as product managers (Megan & Andrea) and analytics (Joanne). VSP’s DEPO co-leads (Kevin) are included as optional.

### Artifact inputs 
You bring: 
- An explanation of the problem space
- A rough draft of product outline (stored in appropriate GitHub `va.gov-team/products` folder)
- Any other artifacts you have so far (such as lo-fi prototypes)
- You **do not** need to prepare a presentation

### Outcomes and artifact outputs
We’ll work together to identify any areas of your project that need additional support or collaboration. Follow-ups and areas to expand upon should be called out in this meeting and scheduled after the fact. 

## For further support at this point
Reach out via Slack #vfs-platform-support with any questions, and you’ll be directed to the correct resource.

---

# Design Intent Collaboration
Present a draft of your ideas to designers. Learn about existing design components and research findings relevant to the problem space. Discuss accessibility considerations with accessibility experts.

## Timing
- Development stage: **Define**
- When you are brainstorming and drafting your solution approach.

## Collaboration format: 30-minute meeting

### Request Process
**VFS Designer or Product Manager** initiates scheduling by submitting ZenHub issue — use `Design Intent Collaboration` template. VSP will schedule the meeting. 

### Meeting attendees
- VFS brings: Designer(s) from your product team; DEPO PO
- If VFS team is part of VSA contract, also include as optional: Jennifer, Shawna
- Design experts bring: DEPO platform design expert (Kevin H - optional); VSP design (Emily & Crystabel) and accessibility (Trevor) practice area reviewers

### Artifact inputs
You bring:
- Whiteboard sketch or other lo-fi prototypes or mockups
- A general idea of the toolset you intend to use in your designs

Design experts provide after the meeting:
- A list of relevant design components and patterns (with URLs)
- A list of existing applications or pages with similar execution or patterns with URLs in staging
- A list of relevant test user accounts for auth apps

### Outcomes and artifact outputs 
- Design and accessibility expert feedback (including relevant components, patterns, apps, test accounts, existing research, and notes on accessibility approach) is documented in ZenHub. 
- Product designers have a thorough understanding of other existing and in progress products, components, and patterns, to pull from in the VA.gov ecosystem. 

## For further support at this point
Reach out to design experts in Slack #design.

---

# Usability Testing Prep
Meet with VSP practice area reviewers to catch anything in your prototypes or mockups that may detract from usability testing. Ensure that you're on track to deliver a successful product for Veterans.

## Timing
- Development stage: **Discover**
- When you’ve determined your initial solution approach and you have prototypes or mockups ready for user testing.

## Collaboration format: 30-minute meeting 

### Request Process
**VFS Product Manager** initiates scheduling by submitting ZenHub issue — use `Usability Testing Prep` template. VSP will schedule the meeting. (Suggested scheduling: during VSP reviewer office hours)

### Artifact inputs
You bring: 
- Prototypes or mockups prepped for user testing
- A draft of your test cases and/or test plan (for QA practice area review) 
- **_Please provide these artifacts at least 2 days before the scheduled review meeting._**

VSP brings:
- Feedback on the artifacts you’ve provided from the following practice areas: design, accessibility, content, QA, and optional: information architecture (IA), product, analytics, engineering

### Outcomes and artifact outputs
- VSP’s feedback regarding the artifacts you provided is documented in ZenHub.
- We’ll use the 30-minute meeting to go over high-level feedback for each practice area, and identify areas that might need further support. 

### Meeting attendees
- VFS brings: your Product Manager, your DEPO PO, and anyone else from your product team that you think should be included at this point (suggested: your designer(s) and content writer(s)). 
- If VFS team is part of VSA contract, also include as optional: Jennifer, Shawna, Tze
- VSP brings: design (Crystabel & Emily), accessibility (Trevor), content (Peggy), information architecture (Mikki), and QA (Peter) practice area reviewers as well as product managers (Megan & Andrea).

## For further support at this point
Reach out to Platform team in Slack #vfs-platform-support with any questions, and you’ll be directed to the correct resource.

---

# Research Plan Review
Get feedback from DEPO's research expert on your research plan and script. 

## Timing
- Development stage: **Discover**
- A week before you plan to conduct research

## Collaboration format: asynchronous

### Request Process
**VFS Product Manager** message Lauren Alexanderson (@Lalexanderson) with your research plan and script

### Artifact inputs
You bring:
- Your complete research plan (resources located in [research folder](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/tree/master/platform/research/planning)).

### Outcomes and artifact outputs
- DEPO's research expert provides feedback on your research plan
- As applicable, approval is granted to begin recruiting participants via Perigean 

## For further support at this point
Message Lauren Alexanderson (@Lalexanderson) in Slack or reach out in the #design channel.

---


# Information Architecture (IA) Request
Collaborate with VSP’s Information Architect to finalize your URL and other key details before developing in staging. VSP’s Information Architect has a high-level view of the entire VA.gov experience and can help ensure that your new or updated content fits well in that ecosystem.

## Timing
- Development stage: **Discover**
- After usability testing, when you’re ready to begin building in staging

## Collaboration format: asynchronous

### Request process
**VFS Product Manager** initiates by completing `IA Request` template in ZenHub. VSP Information Architect provides feedback and finalized information architecture asynchronously on the ZenHub ticket.

### Artifact inputs
You bring: 
- A completed information architecture worksheet (in ZenHub template)

### Outcomes and artifact outputs
VSP provides:
- Finalized information architecture attributes

## For further support at this point
Reach out to Information Architecture resources (@Mikki @Megan Kelley) in Slack #vfs-platform-support with any questions.

---

# Analytics Request
Begin setup of Google Tag Manager and ForeSee so we can understand how Veterans are using VA.gov.

## Timing
- Development stage: **Discover**
- After you have defined your KPIs and are determining which frontend events would be beneficial to track on your application before you build.

## Collaboration Format: 30-minute kickoff meeting

### Request process
**VFS Product Manager** submits request using `Analytics Implementation and QA Request` template for Google Tag Manager implementation. Slack #vfs-analytics for ForeSee setup.

### Meeting attendees 
You Bring: 
- Google Tag Manager implementation: Your Product Manager, DEPO PO, and point of contact for frontend engineering
- ForeSee implementation: no meeting required; asynchronous collaboration

VSP Brings: 
- Google Tag Manager implementation: Google Tag Manager specialists
- ForeSee implementation: no meeting required; asynchronous collaboration

### Artifact inputs
You bring: 
* Google Tag Manager 
   * Objectives and definitions of success (e.g. a specific user interaction or final URL) that is deemed as success for the product)
   * Authenticated user logins for testing, when applicable
   * The URL(s) for your product including any unauthenticated landing pages that precede the start of the tool; for example, if your product is a multi-step veteran-facing tool, please provide the full path of URLs along noting any conditional logic that would take users to a different branch of URLs for the tool 
ForeSee: The final staging and production URLs for pages you want the survey to appear on
* VSP brings: 
   * Examples of goal funnels and conversions
   * Suggestions and feedback on event naming
   * Google Tag Manager configuration services
   
### Outcomes and artifact outputs
* VSP will configure Google Tag Manager so that it will translate the code into a readable format for Google Analytics reporting
* VSP will configure the surveys published on your VA.gov URLs
* VSP’s support for analyzing resulting data

## For further support at this point
Reach out to analytics experts on Slack via #vfs-platform-support

---

# Contact Center Review
Ensure that VA call center representatives are prepared to help Veterans troubleshoot VA.gov.

## Timing
- Development stage: **Build**
- At least 4 weeks prior to launch for a brand new service, or at least 2 weeks prior to launch for a new feature in an existing service. The build on staging should be as complete and ready to launch as possible, but the priority is to begin this review with the required lead time (4 or 2 weeks).

## Collaboration format: asynchronous

### Request process
**VFS Product Manager** follows instructions on the [Contact Center Review page](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/blob/master/platform/call-center/request-contact-center-review.md) to request a Contact Center review.

### Artifact inputs
You bring (refer to [Contact Center Review page](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/blob/master/platform/call-center/request-contact-center-review.md) for further instruction): 
- Product Guide
- Product Video

### Outcomes and artifact outputs
- Receive feedback on the artifacts you created for Contact Center trainings
- Ensure that VA Contact Centers are prepared to help Veterans troubleshoot your product

## For further support at this point
Reach out to call center leads in Slack via #vsp-contact-center-support or contact @chante or @joanne in Slack.

---

# Staging Review
Get feedback on your completed build before rolling out to users.

## Timing
- Development stage: **Build**
- When you're ready to begin rollout.

## Collaboration format: 30-minute meeting

### Request Process
**VFS Product Manager** requests meeting using the `Staging Review` template. VSP will schedule the meeting. (Suggested scheduling: during VSP reviewer office hours)

### Artifact inputs
You bring: 
- Access information for the tool or feature in staging
- A link to your test cases/test plan in TestRail with test execution logs
- A [Release Plan](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/blob/master/platform/product-management/release-plan-template.md) with the "Planning" sections completed (in each section: Phase I, Phase II, Go Live)
- [Access instructions for your product in staging](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/blob/master/platform/accessibility/accessibility-test-credentials-template.md)
- A link to your accessibility test cases/test plan in [TestRail with test execution logs](https://dsvavsp.testrail.io/index.php?/suites/view/14&group_by=cases:section_id&group_order=asc) or [Github with a team member certification](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/blob/master/platform/accessibility/accessibility-test-plan-template.md)
- **_Please provide these artifacts at least 2 days before the scheduled review meeting._**

VSP brings:
- Feedback on the artifacts you’ve provided from the following practice areas: design, accessibility, content, QA, and optional: product, analytics, engineering

### Outcomes and artifact outputs
- VSP’s feedback regarding the artifacts you provided is documented in ZenHub.
- We’ll use the 30-minute meeting to go over high-level feedback for each practice area, and identify areas that might need further support. 

### Meeting attendees
- VFS brings: your Product Manager, your DEPO PO, and anyone else from your product team that you think should be included at this point 
- If VFS team is part of VSA contract, also include as optional: Jennifer, Shawna, Tze
- VSP brings: design (Crystabel & Emily), accessibility (Trevor), content (Peggy), and QA (Peter) practice area reviewers as well as product managers (Megan & Andrea). Optional: analytics (Joanne).

## For further support at this point
Reach out to Platform team in Slack #vfs-platform-support with any questions, and you’ll be directed to the correct resource.

---

# Privacy and Security Review
Ensure your feature meets VSP's privacy and security standards.

## Timing
- Development stage: **Build**
- When you're ready to begin rollout.

## Collaboration format: 60-minute meeting

### Request process
**VFS Lead Engineer or Product Manager** uses `Privacy and Security Review` template

### Artifact inputs
- An architecture diagram, showing involved systems + data flows
- Description of any new publicly-exposed endpoints (vets-api or otherwise)
- Description of any new interactions with dependent services (i.e. vets-api --> ???)
- Description of any other security hotspots you're concerned about / want extra attention on

### Outcomes and artifact outputs
- VSP provides a list of concrete action items the need to be addressed, or approval to roll out

### Meeting attendees 
- VFS brings: your lead engineer, your Product Manager (optional), your DEPO PO, and whoever on your team can speak to the technical architecture and security concerns
- VSP brings: engineering experts (Andrew, and another engineer that Andrew identifies as needed)

## For further support at this point
Reach out to Platform team in Slack #vfs-platform-support with any questions, and you’ll be directed to the correct resource.

---

# Full Accessibility and 508 Office Audit
Accessibility experts complete a full accessibility audit and coordinate with the VA’s 508 office for feedback and approval.

## Timing
- Development stage: **Validate**
- As soon as your product is in production (can happen during a phased rollout after the first phase). 

## Collaboration format: asynchronous

### Request Process
**VFS Product Manager** use `Full Accessibility & 508 Office Audit` template

### Artifact inputs
You bring:
- [Access instructions for your product in staging](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/blob/master/platform/accessibility/accessibility-test-credentials-template.md)
- A link to your test cases/test plan in [TestRail with test execution logs](https://dsvavsp.testrail.io/index.php?/suites/view/14&group_by=cases:section_id&group_order=asc) or [Github with a team member certification](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/blob/master/platform/accessibility/accessibility-test-plan-template.md)  

### Outcomes and artifact outputs 
- Accessibility experts identify any outstanding accessibility concerns with your product
- VA's 508 office reviews and approves (as applicable) your product

## For further support at this point
Reach out to accessibility experts in #vetsgov-accessibility in Slack.

---

# Post-launch Check-in 
Now that you’ve released your product and gathered some initial KPI data, evaluate your success and begin your plan for iteration. 

## Timing
- Development stage: **Validate**
- One month after "Go Live."

## Collaboration format: asynchronous

### Request Process
**VFS Product Manager** link to your completed Release Plan in Slack #vfs-all-teams and tag @AndreaHewitt

### Artifact inputs
You bring: 
- Completed [Release Plan](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/blob/master/platform/product-management/release-plan-template.md) with results populated

### Outcomes and artifact outputs
Begin thinking about how your product should be evolving based on the results you've reported.

## For further support at this point
Reach out in #vfs-all-teams with questions
