# Intro

Has disability rating and health care. Logs into va sites all the time. USAJobs, Va.org (gov), myhealthevet, national records center, whitehouse.gov.

Clicked on menu after signing in and immediately clicked on name -> profile -> contact info. Said it was easy to navigate. When asked about them touching the gov logo , then said they did that bc the layout wasnt the usual layout so they clicked on the logo link to get back to homepage.

Mentioned they were used to seeing their name/under menu in the top right and not on the left.

# Disability Rating

Clicked `view all in disability` from mega menu and expected that to show their dis rating. Also thought it might show claims in the system that are in progress would expect both/and or one of those two things

# Reviewing Profile menu
MyVA - should go to va website, expected more general information here, job listing, career search

MyHealtheVet - knew exactly about that application and what it offered

Profile - knew the usual things and mentioned most contact information

Thought disability might include the claims in progress and would list disability

Dependents - managing my children

Letters - dd214, expected other docs there as well


MyVA expanded explanation, read through each sections and generally understood that this was sections of information. Figured healthcare and other sections, but didn't expect claims and appeals. Mentioned it was hard to find claims and appeals in myhealthevet. Said this was the easiest way they have found their claims and appeals. Seemed happy about finding that.


# Re-building profile menu

MyHealtheVet definitely the first thing, healthcare is important and talk to your doctor, and myhealthevet has lots of functionality and can do a lot.
MyVA - said the overview was useful to see
Disability rating - said it changes sometimes and they dont always realize it
Dependents - doesn't have kids but realized it was important for families, related to disability due to financial impacts
Letters - important to have those records and sometimes the paper copied get lost, and if they need these for education benefits it would be useful to get them to prove things
Profile - since you already have a profile and those updates aren't as important

Travel benefits - lots of people use this benefit, would be at the bottom because its not super important, said its not that important. If you go to a lot of aappointments,it might be more important, but usually only a couple bucks.

Reiterated that MHV was super useful, and knew that MHV is migrating to VA.gov

Would want the menu items balanced... wanted a two column layout visually. Thought it was easier to read faster with 2 columns

Should each link be a dropdown or each one a link? Generally thinks the links are more important for being able to get where they need to log into or access the features/data.

# Recap

Everything worked well, was shocked by menu layout, and why each item was where. Thought My VA was going to be more broad information, and didn't expect the personalized experience to be that high on the page in the menu.

When you want to apply for a benefit, they said it was repetitive, and wanted a more direct link to what they need to fill out.

Nothing was difficult or hard to follow. Thinks the crisis number is pretty cool and that it could be useful to people if they fall, or if they need help. Said in the 90s when he got out,  he had a rep, but wasn't aware of all the services that were available.
