# New Header - Authenticated Menu Research Session Notes

- User is on a mobile device
- User receives 60% disability rating and benefits from this rating, but that is the only benefit they receive
- Does not use VA medical services or any other benefits at this time
- Logged in when working on disability application and check on status

User had some difficulty sharing screen

## Checking for rated disabilities notes:

Mentioned reading the page on insurance and first, but was looking for a link around disability rating in the footer links and didn't find the information there
Looked in the more resources -> additional support link and clicked on that link as the first attempt
Continued look at the additional footer links after navigating back to the un-authed page
Said they didn't find any link that would show them the disability rating for them

When prompted to look at the header, said they figured they were already signed in, and then navigated to the sign in when prompted to explain why they thought they were already signed in.
After signing in went to the menu, and navigated to Va Benefits and Health Care -> Disability -> Check your claim, decision review, or appeal status. Expected to find their disability rating in that location.


## Tax documents notes:

User went back to the footer to find the link for getting tax documents that they would need
Resources and support was the user's choice bc they couldn't find any specific link to get that information.
User not familiar with certificate of eligibility letter or other letters or where to find those to download.

## Changing phone number notes:

- Dev note, user was signed out after clicking on some footer links (check that footer links don't go somewhere un-authed)

After re-logging into prototype, user navigated back to the footer and thought that the "Information for" links would be where they would find links to the user's contact information.

Mentioned the welcome kit might be somewhere someone new to VA would go to and look for contact info as a first thing.

After being prompted to try the main header menu, decided that the records link would be where they would go. When asked about their name and that option in the menu, said that they didn't notice it and that if it was a blue background, they might have noticed that they could click on it and was actionable.

Once opened up the user's menu, then identified each item, and thought the letters link didn't seem clear to them. They weren't aware what that meant. Disability rating would be one of the primary things they would want to know. Profile was identified as the place they would go to update the phone number or contact information.

## Menu redesign notes:

Had trouble navigating back to zoom to see the screen that was being shared by the facilitator. Eventually navigated back and mentioned the shared screen was small, but adjusted sizing and was able to continue.

Sequence was fine to them but was unsure what MyHealtheVet was and said they didn't use that but thought that it should still be there when it's impact on users healthcare.

Was unsure what MyVa showed and then was shown the MyVa prototype. Mentioned that since the disability rating was shown on MyVa that it wouldn't be needed in the user menu and could be removed.

Wouldn't add anything, and mentioned that as long as MyVa showed what they needed then they wouldn't need much else in the menu.

Assumed letters was correspondence with the VA and records of that, and they might rename it something like that. Understood the naming when shown the letters prototype, but might rename it to VA letters and documents

Mentioned that the white background made it less noticeable as an actionable link, and if it was the same blue background it would have stood out more. Facilitator re-layed out the prototype live design and they confirmed that it looked much more noticeable with the same background color as the other menu sections.

## Feedback:

Unclear or difficult - navigating zoom and the prototype, but was minor issues and was able to figure it out.
Said that facilitator did a great job!


