## General / intro

Health and Disability benefits
Does log into VA websites, does VA healthcare login for prescriptions, and VA.gov to look at what they are offering and for information
Does log into VA.gov when visiting it

Uses cctv to magnify the screen to be able to see the screen. It is a physical device that magnifies the screen for him. Looks like it basically projects it onto a much larger screen.

User did mention that they are on a tablet style device. It appears that they are using it in landscape mode

## Updating phone number

Would look for their name to see if they could navigate to profile, but didn't see that on the unauthenticated header.
Would hit home to visit the home page maybe, but then was directed to sign in to the prototype.
Did mention that they would expect a code via 2fa if using idme and was directed to log in with any username and password.
Logged in fine, and then saw their name and would click their name to visit the profile.
Didn't see update phone number on the hub card links and first and decided they would choose personal information to edit their contact information.
Was directed back to the hub and directed to read through the cards and mentioned they hadn't seen the right hand side of columns. Mentioned that they slide around their magnifier to magnify a specific section of the screen, which led to them not seeing the boxes on the right hand side and went to the left after being directed.

Mentioned that if they had scrolled over more they would have seen and clicked on contact information card

## Disability Rating

Had some issues hiding the video window when looking at prototype, so had to re-load the prototype link, but got it figured out.
Visited military information to find disability rating and mentioned thinking that their benefits might be listed there.
Mentioned the dropdown for VA Benefits and Health Care being the next thing they might click on to find information. Said they use MyHelatheVet more often to find information related to their benefits or health care.

Clicked on main header menu for VA Benefits and Health Care and then said they would Click on the expanded menu link for disability. Said they didn't notice the dropdown arrow or functionality for the menu at first.

## Letters

Would look at submenu at first to look for printable documents, and mentioned Records possibly being one place to visit. Really looking for something called documents.
Clicked on the records dropdown and clicked the download va letters and documents in the expanded dropdown. (that link was not set up to go to the letters page in the prototype though)
Thought it was helpful and was easy to find. Would be simple to find once they knew about the dropdown and would click around to to learn what is available in the menus.

## Authed submenu layout

Seems very helpful, said they knew what My Va, HealtheVet, and other links and thought that is very helpful.
Would expect My VA to be a place where they can see resources and healthcare information
Expected MyHealtheVet link to take them into that app
Expected profile to mainly show contact info
Disability rating to them would show their percentage of disability and info regarding that
Dependents, they said they didn't have any, but understood that it would be useful to many users
Letters, they realized that they would go there to download documents like vaccine card or other documents

## Profile vs My VA

Mentioned that profile would be around your info, and that My Va would be more resources around benefits (what is available to veterans in general), and could be personalized but didn't mention that until prompted

## Re-designing authed menu

Would put profile first since that would seem most important to change contact information and other personal information
Mentioned not having dependents so wouldn't use that, and would get rid of it.

Revisited using My VA to see what is offered as far as more general benefits for veterans and resources.
Would use MyHelatheVet the most to see prescriptions, appointments, or talk to a provider

## Takeaways

Knowing about the name and submenu was helpful and all the things that were there.
Most difficult to change their number and was difficult to read the areas in the hub cards and it didn't really explain what was in each box enough.
Thought the authedmenu was a place they could use as a landmark or place they could know had their most important information and links.
Mentioned that websites get confusing and there can be lots of information to look add especially with low vision.
