# Research Plan for Digital Health Modernization Discovery Research, December 2020
## Goals	
The Digital Health Modernization team is conducting discovery research to understand the Veteran health experience from a holistic perspective. The outcome of this research will inform how existing digital health products--in particular, the My HealtheVet (MHV) patient portal--might be integrated into VA.gov to provide a streamlined, consistent end-to-end experience for Veterans, their dependents, and caregivers. 

**Background** 

This project maintains the vision of the Digital Modernization Strategy set in 2017: to provide a single, high-quality digital version of every health product or tool, plus the ability for a Veteran to see all of their VA benefits - health, disabililty, education, and other - in one place, on VA.gov.

**Research questions** 

This research study focuses on four key areas: 
1. **Patient portal:** How does the current MHV patient portal support user needs, and where are there opportunities to bridge gaps or improve on existing functionality? 
2. **Mental models and information architecture:** What health related content and tools outside of the MHV patient portal do users find valuable and need integrated into their experience to support their end-to-end workflows? 
3. **Branding and trust:** What attitudes do Veterans hold toward the MHV brand? Which aspects of the MHV brand generate trust?
4. **Account structure, permissions, and sharing:** Who do Veterans need to share their health information with, and how would they like to be able to manage sharing information and granting permissions?

**Hypothesis**

For each research question, respectively, we hypothesize: 
1. The MHV patient portal provides value by supporting core transactional functionality for health tasks, but that personal health record functionality, health content, and MHV communications are under-utilized. 
2. Veterans need health related content cross-linked and integrated into the MHV patient portal, but this is currently a disjointed experience. 
3. Veterans have a strong trust with MHV because it supports core transactional tasks related to their health and personalized communication with their VA care team--irrespective of the UI/UX design. 
4. Veterans need to securely provide access to aspects of their account to dependents so that they can effectively manage their own benefits in a separate dependent account. Caregivers need their own account with full proxy access to act on behalf of the Veteran while also accessing caregiver benefits for themselves. 

## Method	
We propose semi-structured user interviews and observation for this study. This research will be moderated remotely on Zoom to support screen sharing as applicable.

Semi-structured interviewing is an ethnographic method that allows us to understand the attitudes, situations, and motivations that influence user behavior. By maintaining a semi-structured format, the researcher prioritizes understanding the participants' experience *in their own words* over methodically recording answers to a pre-determined list of questions. The goal of these interviews are to elicit story-telling and the underlying meaning behind why participants hold certain views and have particular needs. The rich, qualitative data obtained from semi-structured interviews is fitting for discovery research, as it allows us to understand where there are gaps in our current product experience and where we can enhance existing functionality. 

As part of this semi-structured approach, the researcher may ask participants to show how they complete certain tasks on the Internet and VA digital products that are in production, such as MHV, VA.gov, or eBenefits as applicable to the participants' situation. 

## Participants and Recruitment	
Perigean will recruit and schedule 12 qualified participants for each group outlined below.

**Primary criteria**

*Please consider each of the following three groups as a separate recruitment effort*

1. Number of years with the VA/eras of service: 
* At least 3 participants who have left the miliary within the last 3 years
* At least 3 participants who served in Operation Enduring Freedom or the Iraq War
* At least 3 participants who served in the Gulf War
* At least 3 participants who served in the Vietnam War

2. Use of VA benefits:
* At least 4 participants who use health care only, or health care and disability compensation, but no other VA benefit types (e.g. housing, education)
* At least 4 participants who use VA health care + 1 other VA benefit type
* At least 4 participants who use VA health care and 2 or more VA benefit types

3. Caregiver and dependent needs:
* At least 4 participants who access VA benefits for themselves only, without the help of a caregiver
* At least 4 participants who access VA benefits for themselves and their dependents, without the help of a caregiver
* At least 4 participants who are caregivers to Veterans and/or their dependents accessing VA benefits

All participants must use or have applied for VA health care:
* At least 3 participants in each group who use private health care providers/insurance to supplement their VA health care

**Secondary criteria**

Gender:
* At least 3 women

Inclusion:
* At least 3 people of color

Geographic distribution: 
* 7 participants from the east coast
*	2 participants from the mid-west
*	3 participants from the west coast

## When? 	
Conduct research: December 7 - 18, 2020

Length of session: 1 hour session with 30 minutes between sessions

Moderator availability: 7AM - 9PM ET December 7 - 18, 2020. 

Draft of conversation guide complete: December 2nd

Mock interview complete: TBD

## Team Roles	
- Moderator: Emily Mann (540) 580-7697 | emily.mann1@va.gov
- Research guide writing and task development: Emily Mann
- Participant recruiting & screening:	Perigean
- Project point of contact:	Lauren Alexanderson
- Participant(s) for pilot test: Meg Peters | meg.peters@va.gov	
- Note-takers: Perigean
- Observers:	Meg Peters (meg.peters@va.gov); Lauren Alexanderson (lauren.alexanderson@va.gov); Kimberly McManus (kimberly.mcmanus@va.gov); Marian Adly (marian.adly@va.gov)
