# P7: Direct Deposit UAT

- Part 1: Thursday 9/5/19 11:30am ET
- Part 2: Friday 9/6/19 at 11am ET

## Intro - 2 minutes

**Veteran:** [_Feedback about signing up for the research session, mistrust with third-party vendors conducting research and being clear about that._]

**Veteran:** I don't know who you are and you have to find a way to convince me that you're an honest person. I'm going to use an example. I'm on Medicare. The Center for Medicare is the name that they use on letters. The Center for MEdicare Services is a crook that keeps trying to sell me back braces. So you need to tell me who you are and why I should trust you.

**Moderator:** Thanks for joining us today! My name is Arthur and I also have some colleagues on the line observing and taking notes. Today we're going to talk about direct deposit at the VA. 

Before we start, a few things I want to mention:

- **This entire session should take about 10 minutes.** I want to be sure not to keep you much longer, so I may occasionally prompt you with the next question or topic.
- **In this session, we want to hear your honest opinions.** If you find something we show you to be confusing, we want to hear about it. Your honest insights help us to figure out how we can improve the veteran experience, and we will not be offended by any opinions you express.
- **If for any reason and at any time you want to stop the session, please let me know.** You will not be penalized in any way if we need to stop.

## Warm-up/Screener Questions - 3 minutes

OK,let's get started.

1. First, can you tell me a little bit about yourself? (If stuck, prompt to ask about service experience, where they live, their work).
    - **Veteran:** I was a computer programmer for many years. Alpha and beta testing is a big part of my life, and I'm happy to be your guinea pig. I'm 74 years old and live near Chicago. I have tremendous experience with computesr. I have some physical and mental challenges which translates to nothing makes sense anymore. The telephone and computer industry outpaced me the moment I retired. I find that very frustrating. We've teleported to another dimension or something.
2. Next, I'd like to confirm: do you receive disability compensation or pension payments from the VA?
    - **Veteran:** Yes, I receive a check that shows up on the first or last day of the month, just like it should every month and I don't have any trouble with it.
3. Can you confirm for me that you have a DS Logon, MyHealtheVet, or ID.me account? 
    - **Veteran:** Ah. My first rant and rave. I have all three and I hate them. I use the MHV login because it works and I don't have to change my password every 38 seconds. Whenever I need to use something and the MHV login doesn't work, I have to go over to the DS screen and it takes me well over a half hour and at least 2 phone calls to get things through and changed because they keep telling me I have to create new passwords I've never used before and it just is a nightmare.
    - **Veteran:** I'll give you an example. Let's say my login is ABC123. 3 months later, I can't use that. I have to come up with something else. Okay, ABC123XYZ. No, that's too close. Ok you can't remember your old password, where were you born? I have trouble spelling and can't answer security questions. I go look up and find out how to spell the word, and answer the question. Okay, you got my point, I'll stop yelling.
4. Do you know your username and password? 
    - **Veteran:** Yes, the current one for MHV I have memorized.
5. Can you tell me what type of computer you are using today? 
    - **Veteran:** It's a PC. It's got Windows 10, and I don't know what mode I'm in.
6. Can you tell me which web browser you are using?
    - **Veteran:** I hope it's called Chrome. Google Chrome.
7. Today we are going to observe you interacting with the new tools on your computer. Would you feel comfortable sharing your screen with me at this time?
    - **Veteran:** I'm perfectly comfortable doing that. Tell me what button to push.

**(Pass presenter rights).**

_Screensharing setup, audio trouble_

_[Screensharing success!]_

OK, please share your screen, and then we will get started.

## Testing direct deposit - 5 minutes

- I'd like you to open a new tab in your browswer, and go to https://www.va.gov/profile-beta and login.
  - [X] **UAT TASK:** After login, link goes to profile.
  - [X] **UAT TASK:** Confirm that they are LOA3. You'll know that they are because they'll see the profile. If they are not, they'll see a "Verify your identity" prompt. If they are not LOA3, **end the session**.  
- Now please click the "Direct Deposit Information" link you see at the top of the page. 
  - [X] **UAT TASK:** Direct deposit link shows up.
  - [X] **UAT TASK:** Direct deposit link jumps down to the direct deposit section.
- _Already had 2FA enabled_
- So now we're looking at the direct deposit feature. First, can you click "How do I change my direct deposit information for GI Bill and other education benefits?". 
  - [X] **UAT TASK:** FAQ opens up and appears to be formatted correctly.
  - **Veteran:** _Reads the FAQ box_ I understand that sentence but I am unhappy with it because I do not like DS Logon. But I understand, let's move on.
- Next, can you click "Go to eBenefits to change your information
  - [X] **UAT TASK:** Link goes to eBenefits.
- Let's got back to the profile. Now, can you click "Find out how to change your information by mail or phone."
  - [X] **UAT TASK:** Link goes to content page.
  - **Veteran:** How to change your information by mail or phone number. I take that literally. I click on it. Is anything on here telling me of a phone number or mailing address?
- Yes. [_Points out mailing info and phone info_]
  - **Veteran:** Can you see my mouse? All I see is "Go to eBenefits." I would normally speaking say, "What the hell?" Where is the mailing address? Then I would remember to scroll down and say, "Oh. I see that." If I'm going to the page that says mailing address, it should say at the top of the page "Mailing Address." I'm not an expert or anything, I'm just throwing out some thoughts from a cranky old man. [_laughter_]
- Let's go back to the profile. Now, can you click "What’s my bank’s routing number?
  - [X] **UAT TASK:** FAQ opens up and appears to be formatted correctly.
- OK, now please take a look at the direct deposit information. Is it correct?
  - **Veteran:** Let me go get my check book to make sure.
  - _Participant dropped from the Gotomeeting call and did not return after about 10 min. Recruiting team will reach out to him to try and reschedule to finish the session._
  
  ---
  ### The session ended before we were able to finish the rest of the tasks and closing questions below.
  
  ---
  ### The participant was able to reschedule to continue the UAT session.
  
  **Friday September 6, 11am ET**
  
  _Moderator shares link to va.gov/profile-beta_
  
  _Signs in using MHV_
  
  _MHV hangs_
  
  _Finally logs in and the page loads_
  
  - **Veteran:** A lot of these web pages have a dropdown menu with one choice, and you, in my opinion have done it correctly. There is no sense in having a dropdown with one choice.
  
  - [X] **UAT TASK:** Direct deposit information has shown up in their profile.
  - [X] **UAT TASK:** User confirms direct deposit info is correct. 
- Next, please click any of the Edit links you see.
  - [X] **UAT TASK:** Direct deposit form opens and appears to be formatted correctly.
- Without filling anything out, please click Update while the form is still blank.
  - [X] **UAT TASK:** Required errors are returned.
        - **Veteran:** So if I type something in like ABC, it will tell me it's not possible, or it's wrong.
        - **Veteran:** This is exactly what I would hope to see. It's completely clear, I've made a mistake and this is what's wrong. I like that you've made certain things
- Now click Cancel.
  - [X] **UAT TASK:** Form closes.

- Please open the form again and add your direct deposit information, even if it is already correct in your profile. Then click "Update."
  - [X] **UAT TASK:** Form closes, and the direct deposit information shows in the profile.

## Post-Task Interview - 1 minutes

- Do you have any feedback on what we looked at today?
    - **Veteran:** No, I am just amazingly happy that you are doing this. I'm glad to be part of it and it makes me happy to be part of the help. It makes me so happy because I think some of the departments, including some of the VA ones, really didn't do this and made things that much more difficult. I have dyslexia and a lot of other problems and I am your classic case of, "We have to make it idiot-proof" so that it will work. It is very important to me and to the VA that it will work. And I'm amazingly lucky that I have a good family and neighbor support group and the VA has taken care of me. These web pages really have to be thought through like you're doing, so I'm very very happy that you are doing this.

## Thank-You and Closing - 1 minutes

Well we really appreciate you taking the time to test these updates today. This helps us to make sure everything will work when we launch these updates for all veterans on VA.gov.

- **Veteran:** Glad to do it, I know you wouldn't use the word but I'm glad to be a guinea pig for you. Programming, I did it and I know it's really hard. You know from doing it so much that you need outsiders to look at it so you know you did it. Anytime you want someone to look at this, I am more than happy to be part of the solution.

As a thank you for your participation, we'd like to send you a $50 thank-you check. This will be sent by Shannon, and she'll work with you to figure out the right place to send it.

- **Veteran:** Just want to mention to the notetaker and three observers, you did a great job.

Great, well thank you so much again, and enjoy the rest of your day!

- **Veteran:** I just noticed on this page here that there is no logout. In my opinion, that is incorrect. There should be a great big word here, flashing neon saying logout. The only two words that everyone in the universe uses are "Log In" and "Log Out." It should be absolutely obvious.
