## Warm-up Questions - 5 minutes
- M: Can you tell me a bit about what supply you use and your last experience reordering supplies?
- P3: I have never reordered supplies. For the first few years, I didn’t know how. For my CPAP, it was an annual checkup. I would just wait for one year and see them in person to get the supplies. For hearing aids, I went into audiology, got tested, and received the hearing aids. The doctor retired and wasn’t ever replaced. I never replaced the hearing aids because I didn’t know how to.
- M: How was that experience?
- P3: It wasn’t too difficult. The time it takes and distance to travel. I’ve never lived close to a VA facility. The traffic is a hassle, and the distance is inconvenient.
- M: How did you find out about how to reorder supplies?
- P3: After my last visit with CPAP, which was 3 months ago, they gave me a sheet with their contact number I can call to reorder. Until that time, I was not aware. I haven’t done that yet.

## Task: Can you walk me through how you would order a hearing aid supply? - 20 minutes
- M: Please think out loud and let me know what your thoughts are about the page, the information here, and how everything is organized.
- P3: It looks like a standard VA website. It looks difficult like all VA websites are. I’ve had some tough times navigating VA websites to find what I need. 9 times out of 10, it takes me somewhere different than I’m looking for. That’s my experience with VA websites. There aren’t too user-friendly. I like that it shows if I’m eligible and includes the criteria needed. Tells you how to do each option. It includes FAQs on the page. There are so many different versions of hearing aids, so the catalog is good. I would find valuable the make, model, batteries, and how long the batteries last.
- M: Where would you go next?
- P3: If I were ordering batteries or accessories, I would click order here online. Sign in to start. I have to sign in. If I sign into their main website, and click a link to another website, I have to sign in again. It’s very annoying. If it’s signed in with my information, it should show what I’m using and if I need to reorder. I would expect it to display on a dashboard the items I need.
- M: Now that we are at this page, can you show me what you would do next to make a supply order?
- P3: Right now, it looks like I started an order yesterday. It’s pretty straightforward. A step-by-step process and explains what I need to do. 

*Step 1 Page: Veteran Information*
- M: You have now arrived at the first step of the order form. Please think out loud and let me know what your thoughts are about the page, the information here, and how everything is organized.
- P3: It’s basically showing my information. What I would expect to see, if the information is incorrect, an option to input the correct information. If it’s incorrect, I would have to call and can’t continue. 
- M: Anything confusing? Would you add, remove, or change anything on this page?
- P3: No. Just basic information. 

*Step 1 Page (cont.): Veteran Information*
- M: What do you think about this page? Can you please show us how you would complete this step of the form?
- P3: I’m assuming everything would be filled in. If not, I would fill it in and save it. I like that you can add a temporary address. That’s a good option. If I’m on vacation or staying somewhere for an extended amount of time, I rather it come to me than my house. I may not return for a month or two. It’s a really good option to have it shipped to another location. I’m confused about “finish this later.” Will it save everything I’ve entered? I like that option too. I wouldn’t make any changes.
- M: Before you hit continue, how would you describe the difference between a permanent address and a temporary address? When would you sue one over the other?
- P3: If I edit my permanent address, I read at the top it won’t update everywhere. If I’m changing it, I would want it to update everywhere instead of going to another website. The VA is multiple entities, and they don’t talk to each other. It’s a pain to get your address updated. A one stop shop would be perfect.

*Step 1 Page (cont.): Veteran Information*
- M: Let’s see if you’re at a different location from your home, how would you add your current location and make sure the supplies ship to your current location?
- P3: I don’t understand. I updated my address and now it’s asking me to send it to a permanent address? I don’t know what that did. Did it update everywhere else? I don’t understand what ‘Send to permanent address’ means. There isn’t an explanation. Did I just update, or do I need to click the button to update? I hit save. So, in my brain, it updated. If I’m sending it, it’s going to update the VA. It wouldn’t just impact this form but send it to all of the VA.

*Step 2: Select your supplies*
- M: Can you show me how you would order a hearing aid supply from this page? Please think out loud about this page and let me know your thoughts.
- P3: It did select the batteries for the equipment I have. Instead of having the model number, have a description of what it is. CARAT 7BX RIC: Is it a battery? A hearing aid? An earpiece? I might not have a clue what that means. If it says, “hearing aid earpiece”, I will know. I need more information to know if I need batteries or not. RIC CHARGER: that makes sense. 
- M: Before you hit continue, is there any other information that would have been helpful to identify or select the correct supply?
- P3: What if the supplies aren’t listed? OK so I call or email. I like that. I wish I didn’t have to call, and it would show additional supplies. The CPAP itself, they won’t let me order unless it’s broken. The filters and other wear and tear accessories, I would expect to see listed. This isn’t everything I would expect to see. It’s not showing all of the parts and pieces. Just like ordering medications, I would expect to see the list and you can refill. I expect the same for this. List all of the parts and if not needed, I won’t order them. I like that it shows the last order date. If I try to order too early, it should tell me it’s too early. Once I do order, I expect some type of tracking system as well. RIC CHARGER not available: shows me it’s too early. I have to wait until July. 
- M: Would you add, remove, or change any details about each supply to this screen? Scale of 1 to 5, how easy or difficult was it to select the supplies that you need to reorder? Point to CPAP supplies being not available: What if this supply is what you need, what would you do next?
- P3: I didn’t even see that. That makes perfect sense to me. They won’t replace a CPAP unless it’s been run for a certain number of hours. That makes sense I would have to call the VA to order a new one. I would call the number or email. Probably email since calling is difficult. I don’t like sitting on hold for hours. I don’t know what the requirements are for responding to my email.

*Step 3: Review order details*
- M: Can you show us how you would submit your order?
- P3: Here, it says batteries. When I clicked to order them, it didn’t show they were batteries but just the model #. I would have expected that in the previous screen. I wouldn’t have had a clue what they were. I could read the package I currently have, I guess.
- M: At this point, you realize that you forgot to add X supply to this order, how would you go about adding that to this order?
- P3: I would hit “back” or “add accessories to your order”. Oh – it does say “battery” on this screen. It may be the way it’s set up. The batteries on one are different than the other. I assume these are hearing aids. A left and a right one. Why are there 2 different batteries? That throws me off. I would select the batteries I forgot. Then I would submit the order.
“You have requested to receive the following hearing aid accessories 0/1” is confusing. I guess the charger would be an accessory.

*Step 4: Confirmation screen*
- M: Can you share any reactions and thoughts you have for this?
- P3: That pretty much confirms the order, what you ordered, and where it’s being delivered to. It’s going to email me a tracking number. I wouldn’t expect anything more. Shows date submitted. I can’t think of any additional information I would need.

*Overall*
- M: How would you rate this reordering overall experience from 1 to 5, 5 being the easiest?
- P3: Supple selection: It wasn’t difficult. I never give anything a perfect score. I would say 4. Once I sat there and understood what was what, ordering batteries for hearing aids. The process itself was pretty easy.
- P3: Overall reordering: A 4. It was laid out step by step. I had to use a bit of intuition on what to click on. Other than that, it wasn’t difficult at all.
- M: If you could change one thing about this supply reordering experience, what would it be?
- P3: My permanent address gets updated everywhere. That’s such a pain. That and the explanation of what the items are. I don’t know my hearing aids by a code. I know them by the manufacturer. 

## Closing - 10 minutes
- M: How would you go about changing your supply type or brand?
- P3: I would have to talk or email someone. I wouldn’t expect to do that online. 
- M: If a supply isn't available and you are told to talk to your provider, then how would you do that?
- P3: That’s a good question. It says to call the number or email so that’s what I would do. I would assume the email goes to the clinic that I deal with. With that being said, it probably isn’t. It is probably a specific clinic within the VA, and they will have to transfer my email or call. I know another option is through MHV secure messaging. Not everyone I deal with is on secure messaging and I can’t add someone. The VA has to add them. I don’t have audiology on there but that would be another way to contact the department. I know they have to reply within 24 hours. With a normal email, it could go to a junk folder or just sit around until someone gets to it. With MHV, they still have to reply. 
- M: In your experience/opinion, are we missing any devices?
My wife is a type 1 diabetic. Maybe supplies for an insulin pump. If I was a diabetic, I would expect that to be there as well. Possibly people that wear paddings. All the CPAP supplies that go with it. 
- M: Is there anything else that we haven't talked about that you’d like to share? Do you have any questions for me before we wrap up?
- P3: No. I’m glad to participate. 
