## Warm-up Questions - 5 minutes



J:  okay, so let's start with a few few warm up questions. Can you tell me a bit about the supply? You currently use? And your last experience reordering them.


P6: They currently I get cpat supplies once or twice a year I get the mask inserts. And my last order. I also asked for some replacement hoses on a new reservoir, and What I do is I fill out the paper form that each each order I get comes with another paper form in it
for the next order. I just fill that out and mail it in. It's pretty simple, and a couple weeks later it comes in the mail. It's no muss, no fuss, and frankly, up until now the only ways I knew of ordering was either to paper, form or
going communicating via the Via messaging. You know the email networked with the suite sleep disorder. Yeah. The sleep doctor's office there and asked him, that's what I did the first time I needed a re order cause I contacted them over on on my healthy vet. Yeah. the thing there for messaging. I used that. And then after that, I could just been using the paper form to come with each order. I didn't know that I could go on
order replacement supplies on the Da Gov. To be honest with you until Yay. until this


J: yeah is is is pretty new. I have to say So maybe next time, you know, after the session you could try it out and come back again. But I'm curious. You said, you've used the messaging on my hobby bat to order it before. What what happened? Did you just message? Somebody. And then they told you what to do or no.

P6: I just sent them a message saying I could use some more mask, inserts,mask, and they responded back, saying, Okay, we got on order. You'll get it, you know, soon, and I got it. And then, but since then, like I said, when I get the order in.
here's a form included with the order for the next order, and I just fill that out and mail it in.


J: Okay. How was that experience?


P6: Nope, no muss no fuss they work, you know.I guess using an online ordering would be a little bit quicker because it saves a couple of days of transit time for the for the mail water form to to get to the
to the center out there. But usually when I order.I've still got another mask or 2 available yet, but I'm in no big rush. So well. speed is not of the essence. Generally. When I order these parts.


J: Okay. so you usually fill out the form, mail it backwhen you receive your your current order right?

P6:Well, II don't fill out the form and mail back until I actually need more fter I've received the girdle, and like, if I get a couple mask mask inserts in the mail with the form it was bask inserts will last me
probably 6 months, and you know at that point is what I'll mail in the form asking for some more.

J: Okay, how how do you know when you need more?


P6: When I open up the bag? And I got just one or 2 left, each one last me about 3 or 4 weeks. Yeah. Sowhen I have just one or 2 left.that's why that's when I order. Because I know when I mail the form. In about 2 weeks
I'll have the supplies in my mail.

J: Okay. got it. That's helpful to know.Since you've only been filling out the physical form, or asking your provider through messaging to order them. Are are you aware you could do it digitally?


P6: Not until I got this invite for this project. I did not know that I could order them online. I just. I guess it's just messaging and paper form, that's all I knew of before that.


J: Okay, thank you. That's really helpful to share a little bit about how you currently feel. Order your supplies.


P6: Exactly. I initially, when I initially got my cpat machine at the at the clinic. II use the clinic in Lebanon 11 and PA. At a sleep clinic there. They they told me those were going 2 ways order either contact them or mail in the form.
Now about. I guess about 18 months. Soit's maybe the maybe the digital ordering wasn't available back then. That's yeah.  I don't know how new this this really is.
## Task: Can you walk me through how you would order a hearing aid supply? - 20 minutes



J: so next, what I'm gonna ask you to do is walk me through how you would order a hearing aid supply. Starting from this page, you're looking at.

P6: Okay, let me just scroll through this page. Since I don't remember, I don't think I've been on this one.
Okay? So I'm guessing. The first step I'd wanna want to do is click on the link there on that on the seeing the battery catalog to make sure the batteries that I want can be ordered. So I would click on that. You want me go ahead and actually do that.


J: If if you, if that's the first step you like to take to order or hearing a supply, yeah, feel free to do that first.


P6: a not going anywhere, doing anything. It's not okay. That's that may be just the testing website. Then if that
there's a link there, learn how to request as repairs. I don't need repairs. Okay, there it is, further up. I was too far down on the page. Okay, there's a link for ordering hearing batteries and accessories on line. So I'll click on that. And that's actually moving there. Okay.


J: so do you think you're signed in at this point?

P6: No, I'm not


J: okay. but just want to make sure. Alright. So


J: so you click down the order order link. And then it took you to this page. Is this what you expected to see when you click on that

P6: pretty much. This one allows me to order hearing aid supply cpaps assist is probably the page I would want to use
 if I wanted to order my cpat supplies. Okay.  yeah, this is what I would expect. And I would think that the next step would be to sign in see? An order. They don't know who I am. So


J: so so here. okay, great. So I'm gonna stop you here. So since this is a testing website, I'm also going to be send you a testing login, which is which you know. So we don't see your information for privacy reasons.



J: sign in

J: Alright. So now that you've signed in as


J: Mark is just a testing name? Okay, so I think the last step we were on you clicked on. Start to order. So ignore the blue box there. That was just an order that Mark has done previously. But if you wanna

 order of starting from a new order for the hearing aid, what would you do?


P6: They call starting their water. Okay? And then I get a pop up there. Says they'll delete my in progress order, which I guess you want me to do. Click on start a new water.
P6: information, affirming that I am who I am.


J: Okay? Andis this what you expect it to see.

P6: Probably just to make sure. Yeah, that I am. Make sure it verifies I didn't make an error logging in somehow. Accidentally. Log in somebody else. The. you know. Yeah, II pretty much would expect that sort of a confirmation. Just that. That's who I'm wondering for. And then I would click on, continue
to my address below, which doesn't really show me the the address below. Oh, there it is. Yeah, it does have my address there. or it has an address.


J: So what do you? What do you think? The permanent address main


P6: et swear the VA. Has my residence, my my residence of record, and

2
P6: and where I'd want the order to be shipped to where I live. Yeah.


P6: So if I wanted to change my address, this is where I would do it.


P6: And if the address was correct, I would just  not going to edit it, so I don't have to click on to save the permit address. I would just click on, continue down at the bottom.


P6: Once I verify, the email was right and everything.


Okay.

J: And what do you?

J: Oh, that's okay. So before you.


J: before you continue to the next step, I'm curious. Get your thoughts on some of the other things on this page.


J:  did you see


J: what was below the permanent address? Section?


J: Yeah, there you go. That offer me the option of


P6: adding a temporary address. If I wanted to be shipped to a different address, like if I was.


P6: If I was a snow bird and moved down to Florida for the winter.


P6: I could have a ship down there. If I had an address down there about staying there during the cold weather.


P6: so it would offer me that option to send send to myself elsewhere other than other than my permanent home.



J:  And do you think the


J: email address is? You can change it here.


P6: I would think so because that's the email that they're going to send the Confirmation and tracking number and all that information to. So

P6: I would assume if I wanted it sent to a different email, I would be able to change it there. I would, I would think.


J: okay. And is there any other information on this page? You'd like to

J: add, change or remove


P6: rest. Temporary address.

P6:  no, I can't think of anything to be honest with you.


J: Okay.


P6: no. Can't figure by anything


J: so great. So Liz,


J: fill out the the right


J: box. Just yeah. Click on whatever because it's just a testing account. So we just wanna


J: move you to the next step. So click on whichever yeah, random number is fine.


J:  okay, so let's hit continue.


P6: Okay, so

P6: offers me and


P6: some options of things


P6: it offers me a couple different batteries.

P6:  for different devices, I guess


P6: and it also offers me


P6: some options,


J: so you so the just just rewind a little bit on on. What we need to do here is you. You like to order hearing aid


J: battery from this page.


P6: Okay?

P6: The only question I got is, there's 2 different batteries a way home.

P6: Actually, they're both this


P6: 2 different batteries for


P6: looks like the same model hearing aid.


P6: I'm not sure what the difference is between them.


J:  that's fair. What?


J: What information tells you that they're different.


P6: The


P6: the battery part number one of em is a ZA. 10 MF. And the other is A. ZA. 3 12 MF.


P6: I'm not exactly sure what difference between those batteries actually is. I'm assuming that old face part number up top. I'm assuming

P6: I'm assuming that's the hearing aid. Well, that's right. There'd there'd be 2 hearing aids. I guess so. So I guess they're both the same model hearing is, but for some reason 2 different model batteries.


P6: which I'm not exactly sure. Why.


J: okay. so

J: let's let's say for the for this task. Just click on either. Pick pick either one of them to order.

P6: Okay.


J: okay? And if if this is in real life, right like, let's say you need to actually order batteries, what

J: information would help you differentiate different supplies, let's say for for your, for your equipment.


P6: Oh, for the batteries!

P6: gave me an explanation of what the different models represent. I'm not exactly sure you know. Maybe one of them is an Icad battery and the others Mercury back. II don't know


P6: something descriptive up on the battery part number there.


J: Okay.


P6: I'm assuming there's 2 different. There's 2 different numbers there, because I'm assuming this person has 2 2 different hearing aids. But why the batteries are different I don't know. Maybe maybe they're equivalent as different manufacturers, and that just happened to be the


P6: part number that was shipped the last time. II don't know.


J: Yeah, that I mean, that's totally fair, since this is not your supplies. So you wouldn't know. So for so you said, you, you know, for for your personal example. You say you order cpac supplies.

J:  what? II guess when you're filling out the forms for yourself. What help you

J: to be confident or like. You know what you need, what you need to order like, what's the identification for that information you you


J: you look for.


P6: I would look for the model number of my


P6: cpat machine itself.

P6: for the individual parts. I need the part number and description of what

P6: the IM was actually on it, and I'd be ordering for  I proceed. You got the whole mask assembly. You got the mask, insert


P6: you got hoses, reservoirs, whatever. So for each item. By D, the A port number and a description of what that actual part is.


P6: Yeah.


P6: make sure I'm watering the right thing.

J: And are those information usually available on the form.

P6: the form of the form?

P6: When I fill out the form it goes to whatever place that is


P6:  I don't have one here, right, Andy, but


P6: actually, the only information II just write on. There's there's a bunch of list items listed there. mask, insert reservoir hose. There's no numbers or nothing on there.


P6: but when the facility gets that form they've got all my information on file there, they they know what I've got what I was last

P6: drive or receive, and they just duplicate those particular airports. And I I've gotten the right stuff so far, I mean.


P6: when I fill out the form and ask for my name.


P6: address, social security number, so security number. So I know, like they got the right person.


P6: and I guess their system there. They know exactly what I need.

P6: You know what what specific items I need


P6: when I ask for something they know which mask insert, which

P6: which hose you know, whatever. So


P6: they don't. They don't answer those details on the form. They do it. They figure it out for me.


J: Okay.

J: that's good to know. And thus more convenient, too. If you don't have to like, confirm, confirm it yourself. They make sure that you get the right stuff. So


J: it's really nice. Okay, so


J: let's come back to the to the digital form we're looking at now. So so now that you've picked a batteries on here.


J: Was that


J: clear what you need to do to

P6: Well, once I once I see the item that I want. Yeah, it's very clear. I just put a check mark in the little box there, and it's highlighted. And

P6: I assume once I check off everything I want. I just go down to bottom and click, continue.


J: Okay.

J: and let's go down to the bottom. Look at some of the alert that that we're seeing. So, for example, here.


J: it says, this, this item is not available for online reordering.


J: So if you what, when you see this alert, do you know what you need to do to get your supplies on time. In this case I would go and message the sleep clinic at my facility, and

=
P6: let them know. That's what I need. Yeah, this this particular item, right here is a is a complete seat back unit.

P6: It's a one generation older than the one I got. But you know that's a complete seat, perhaps. So II could understand that not being available, they'd wanna they'd wanna talk to me. Ask me, you know, help? Why, I need a new $1,200 unit. Yeah. So


P6: in that case, right there, I I'd either call or message the Sleep Clinic. It might be interested in the facility and


P6: discuss it with it. That that's something I would not expect to be available for online ordering. a complete new unit. because the units there's s'pose'll last at least 4 years.


P6: I wouldn't expect that.

J: Interesting. How how do you know that information.


P6: I was told it by the sleep planning personnel.

P6: They said they said, basically, every 4 years I'll be getting in a unit when I guess I'm assuming. When this thing nears it's fourth birthday.


P6: I'll be contacted by them being told to bring it in and get a new one.

J: Yeah.


okay.

J: that's good information. I wonder?


J: Yeah, like things like that. Would that be


J: like, for example, if you don't know that information? Would you want to know here when you're looking at something is unavailable.

P6: Not really.


P6: it's not available. It's telling me to contact the sleep clinic there. Basically. So I would contact them. And

P6: you know they


P6: it's always better to talk to a real human, the the find out information, anyway. So yeah.

P6: they would tell me if if I didn't know, they would tell me why it's not available for reordering, and they and they would not normally, in a normal course of visit. Ask me, why do I want to reorder another one? Am I having a problem?

P6: And if so, what is it? And they'll help me find my yeah. Figure my way out to it.

P6: Yeah, there, there's software in there. If I've I'm having a problem with my CPU, my, my base unit.


P6: it might be a software problem that they can. They can fix over the area. It's connected over the Internet to the to the clinic they get. They get results every day from me how well I slept the night before. And also.


P6: if I'm seeing a problem with the unit I could call them. they could run diagnostics right from the office there to see what the problem is, and and figure out if I do need a unit new unit, or they can fix it.

P6: So you know, that's

P6: tell. Telling me to contact them is not a bad idea.

J: Yeah, I'm I'm glad that they they offer that service like troubleship for you when you're on the phone instead of you have to like, go in or something. So that's that's really good.


J: Let's so. okay, so so far.


J: how easy or difficult. Was this  select? Supplies.


P6: Not that. Not difficult at all. I mean, it's it's pretty simple. I mean, it's it's no more difficult than when I go online to order my meds.


P6: I got a lot of prescriptions I order every month, and it's no more difficult than that. That's pretty simple.


J: would you?


J: So when you say you order mets online as well, where do you order it?


P6: I go to my health. I go to my healthy event for that. Yeah, II start out in Va. Gov, and it takes me to my healthy event.


P6: And then there's a pharmacy page there where all my scripts are listed there, and when I want to reorder something I put little check marks in the boxes next to each one and


P6: click. click on the bottom and it and it orders it. Several days later it comes


J: and


J: okay, so let's continue from from here. Now that you you've selected it.


P6: Okay, so you wanna go ahead and click continue.

P6: Okay?


P6: Well, it's asking me to review information there. So I would


P6: review my


P6: information there.


Okay?


P6: And then I review the supplies that I ordered.  it tells, me, I want to get 60 of that particular item

yeah.


P6: tells me, I didn't order, any Cp supplies, and then I would click. You know, if everything was right. I click, submit the order on the bottom, and I expect I would be done.


J: Okay. is this?


J: is there anything confusing? On this page?


P6: Not really. No.


P6: it's pretty straightforward.


Okay.


J: so let's say that at this point in in your order. You realize that you need to ask a question to your Va. Provider before placing the order. And you need to save it. Come back later to submit. Could you show me how you would save this?


P6: I would click on where it says, Finish this order later. I'm assuming that's that's what was saving.


P6: I was clicked. Wanna be glad to do that.

J: Yes, to to save this order. Yeah.


J: Okay, so

P6: and that's right back where I was when I started when I first.


P6: you know, at the beginning of this process, where?


P6: So next time and once I had my questions answered, I'd come back in, get to where? Where we're at, where we're at right now, and I would just click on. It's in you, my order, and I'm assuming


P6: that would take me back to that page there where I would complete it.


J: Okay, so


J: the information that you're looking at right now is this

J: are are you sure this is a order that you have previously worked down?


P6: I would click on, continue my order and go back to that. It will take. I'm assuming it'll take me back to that page where that review page where I would verify what it was I had on. There, you want me go ahead and click on it.

P6: Right? Yeah, let's yeah. Let's go back and submit. And this page also tells me I got until May the fourth to finish this order


P6: where I'm I'm assuming at that point it'll drop off.


P6: Okay. So like, I expected, I'm back to that page again.

P6: and if I was ready to finish my order, I would click on. Submit down there, and I'd be done.


J: Alright. Let's see what happens when you submit it.


J: Okay, so this is


J:  the testing account, you know. But in real life, you know, this may happen as as well. If your order for some reason could be submitted, what would you do at this point


J: if you see this?


P6: If I got this message right there, there's a phone number right down there. And an email I contact either one of those, and


P6: let them know what happened and get it resolved.

J: Okay.

J: cool. So let me show you what the Confirmation page will look like if the


J:  if they actually submit it. Here I have a screenshot of that


J: since this test account won't allow you to do that. So?


J: I'm going to.


J: So stop your screen sharing so I can show show you what what the actual


P6: we have a call.


J: I don't think you need to do anything. But can you see my screen now?


P6: We're back to the ordering, hearing, aid and sleep apnea suppliers stage again yet.


J: Yeah. So you see me scrolling this page as well, right? Okay, yeah. So this is


J: the

J: Order confirmation page. If like what it will look like if it act, if you actually submit it. So by looking at this page, I'm I want to hear your thoughts.

J: If this is enough information or what? What's confusing about this? Yeah, any

J: thoughts you have.


P6: It's telling me that the order has been submitted. And I'll be getting an email confirming that


P6:  so I would, I would keep my eyes open for that email to confirm it.


P6: yeah, and


P6: tells me, what I ordered where it's going  there's supposedly confirmation number there isn't one there i'm assuming that in real life there will be one there.


J: right? Yes.

P6: And if I wanted to. I could print this page. And if I,


P6: although I would assume the email, will have that information, I'd wait till I got the email. I'm assuming that come within just a couple minutes.


P6: The email had all that information. I wouldn't bother printing that page.

J: Okay? And


J: let's see. So is this.


J: So if in the email, this is.


J: it will be the same information they will provide you in the email. Is it?


J: Is this enough? Inform? Is this all the information you think you need or would you like to add or remove anything else? I would think that's enough, because it tells me what I ordered where it's going


P6: when I ordered it. Assuming there's a confirmation number there where it says confirmation number. So if it didn't show up after a while I could call somebody. And


P6: and that number they could track it. So that that's all I would really need.


Okay.

J: right? So

J: I'm gonna stop sharing my screen.

J: so overall that since right now we have looked through the whole reordering experience overall, how would you rate

J: this experience from one to 5. 5 being the easiest.


P6: I would. I would say it's a 5. I mean, it was pretty simply like, I said, I got


P6: online ordering experience with prescriptions and stuff, and and that's very easy for me. I mean, it takes.

P6: I go in once a month, and that takes me about 2 min, and that's about all this would take me, I think you know so like our message, whatever

P6: like, you know. pretty simple, clear cut.
P6: think anybody would
P6: at least an eighth grade. Education would understand how to get through there and should be a big big problem.


J: Okay, that's good to hear.

41
J: if if there's one thing that you recommend, we could do to make this


J: better.


J: Can you think of anything? I know you gave give a 5. So that's a pretty high score. But yeah, anything else.

P6: I honestly can't think of anything.
P6: no, I can't think of anything that's pretty simple. From from the moment you know, I got to the Va Gov. Page and everything, you know, finding out that I could.


P6: We're not getting there at all.

P6: none like, yeah, I can't see any improvements.


P6: Be honest with you. Great?


J: Yeah, thank you. Thank you for going through the whole process. I think one last question I have is
J: when, whenever you need to like.
J: change your supplies, like, for example, if you're like, the the mask of your Cp

J: doesn't fit properly anymore. That you? Let's say you need to change it right after you have used it, or

J: place an order for it.
J: What? What's that process look like to get that change. Seems like if I decide I need a different model, because maybe I save my beard or grew a beard. Yeah.


P6: I've done that a couple of times already. The original mask I was prescribed


P6: didn't work out well for me, and I've gone through a couple since then. and that I just contact the sleep clinic and discuss my issues. And I worked with them to decide. You know what what appropriate model to try after that, and then they sent it to me, and
P6: I try it out and the works good. If it doesn't, I call them back, and we try something different.

P6: I'm on. I'm on the third different mask right now. The the original one was

P6: the typical full face mask like you like, you see hospital patients where?

J: Yeah.

P6: that didn't work out for me, cause it cut into the bridge of my nose. So then we tried a a type where

P6: it only went up my nostrils. It's I forget what they call it, but it just went up my nostrils. Everything else was uncovered. That was fine until I realized that when allergy season kicks in and I can't breathe through my nose anymore, I need to breathe through my mouth. And with that type of mask.

P6: If you breathe through your mouth, it defeats the whole purpose of the sea path. I mean you. You can't breathe through your mouth. When you're

P6: you gotta you gotta be sealed. So I called them out and told them about that issue, because once when my allergies started kicking in and my nose got stuffy.
P6: I couldn't breathe to that. I was breathing through my mouth. so the C map was bypass essentially. and they came up with a different style. Math, which is.

P6: covers my nostrils and my mouth only. and even with the beard it provided a good enough seal at all. And that's what I've been using ever since now. Well, over a year. Now

P6: that's where it got a fine for me.

J: that's great. So do did you have to like make appointments every time you you need to.

P6: I sent them an email over my healthy vet, saying, I'm having an issue. And they called me.


P6: And and we discussed it over the phone. And yeah, basically, just a 5 min phone call. And then they recommended something and send it to me. Okay.


P6: yeah, they're very helpful. I mean, you know, it's


P6: it's best to actually talk to somebody about something like that, because otherwise.


P6: every time I had a problem, I just went on and said, Send me, send me a different style, math. I could have gone through 10 of em before I finally found the right one


P6: going through this process. It only took me 3, which you know it's good, you know. Took it took me about 3 months total


P6: to get to get through the process to where I found the perfect perfect mask for my application. My application.

P6: That's not some that's not something you want to automate online.


P6: Yeah.

P6: that's something you need to talk to a technician.


J: Yeah, it's different for everybody, probably. Yeah. So if let's say that. So you use my healthy bat right. It sounds like.


J: where would you expect this supplies? Reorder?


J: Where would you find it? On my helping that? Am I helping you?

P6: I'm not really sure.

P6: there's a lot of drop down menus on the on the home page there. I would just go through the drop downs until I found the right one. Assuming I could. I don't know that I can order on my I'll see that I'm


P6: like, I said. Until now I didn't know you could order these on


P6: won't be 8 out of either.


okay.


P6:  II would have to look at the actual page and look through all the dropdown that dropdown options to. If I couldn't define it on there, then I would go back to


P6: well, I usually start out on va.gov, anyway, so I probably wouldn't even get to my healthy vet to go look for the

P6: for the supplies.


P6: because when I start out like when I go to veva.gov, when I click on the link there for prescriptions. it takes me to my healthy that to order them

P6: for prescriptions. Yeah, yeah, okay.

J: cool. Yeah, just want to. Yeah, we're. We're also trying to figure out what's the right

J: place for veterans to find it online, whether it's my help us, or via Gov. So just


J: in in general sense, wanted to get get your opinion on that. So yeah, first, personally, my healthy event is where I like to wind up going, because seems like just about anything I need.


P6: I mean, I got messaging. I got the pharmacy. I've got the


P6: I can look at and create appointments, and you know.

P6: except for this, which I didn't know about like I said until now.


P6: anything up to this point that I needed is on my healthy net somewhere.


Yeah. Well.

J: okay. great.


J: So this is the end of our our session. We really appreciate your time sharing your honest opinions with us today, and your feedback is always helpful for us to continue improving our website. So thank you for being here today, and if you know any other veterans.
caregivers who may be willing to participate in the future session like this feel free to pass on the web link that you probably receive an email later. So the link will be in there. So feel feel free to share that.

480
00:50:44.350 --> 00:50:49.419
J: yeah, that's everything for me. Is there any other questions that you have

481
00:50:49.490 --> 00:50:51.950
P6: none? I can think of

482
00:50:51.970 --> 00:50:53.990
P6: pretty strong.

483
00:50:54.710 --> 00:51:03.090
P6: II know from previous experience. You know the check will be in a mail in a few days. Really, there's there's there's no questions

484
00:51:03.480 --> 00:51:07.510
J: great. You you already have experience with this. So

485
00:51:07.690 --> 00:51:17.980
J: okay, thank you so much, P6, have a good rest of your day.




## Closing - 10 minutes


