# Product definition chat

**In attendance**: Terry Bazemore, Karisa Strickland, Maria Harmon, Matt Shea, Samara Strauss.

## Data types & fields: What data fields should we account for?

These are the two calls we make to VA Profile before showing options to the customer, including what they may or may not have already chosen.

### Groupings

This is a **selection option**.

#### Group types

- Product line groups (MVP)
- Campaign groups (More likely a V2 or later feature)

#### Who determines these groups? 

- Conceptually, the product line owner will define product groups. VEO may define groups for campaigns.
- Items can appear in a product line group or a VEO group as part of a campaign (eg. a campaign for a specific status notification — VEO could group all financial notifications into a group).

#### Are these hard coded or dynamically pulled in from VA Profile?

- These are dynamically pulled in from VA Profile. They come over when we pull over the selection options.

### Communication items (eg. health care appointment reminders; prescription updates, etc.) 

This is a **selection option**. 

#### Are there MVP notification types we should account for in V1 (eg. VETText — health appointment reminders; VANotify)?

- VETText – health appointment reminders; appeals reminders (currently storing that but not Veteran facing)
- VANotify – FAS payment notification; 526 process
  - This is in the mock data right now.

#### Are these hard coded or dynamically pulled in from VA Profile?

- These are dynamically pulled in from VA Profile. They come over when we pull over the selection options.

### Communication channel (Eg. email and text)

This is a **selection option**.

#### Are there MVP types (eg. email and text) we should account for now, while other types (eg. phone and mail) we should account for later?

- Initially, we should account for email and text.
- Voicemail (phone) will likely not be part of initial build, but we should account for it since it may be added in the future.
- We do not need a mail indicator, since it is unlikely the VA will stop sending mail any time soon.
- No need for “do not contact”. This is reflected in the permission itself.

#### Are these hard coded or dynamically pulled in from VA Profile?

- These are dynamically pulled in from VA Profile. They come over when we pull over the selection options.

### Communication permission 

- This is the actual permission the person has selected on a specific item for a specific channel (eg. you can communicate with me for health care reminders via text).
- The is the actual **customer permissions list**.

### Preferences

- A preference would be more specific information for a specific type of permission. This is likely something we will add in the future but is not part of the initial work. 
  - Eg. If I say it’s ok for you to contact me by phone for a notification or reminder, it would be my preference that you would use a hearing impaired device. 

## Governance

### Who is responsible for things like copy/content for each preference type? How can we assure that any copy/labels meet the VA.gov style guidelines?

VA Profile has a governance process and flows. There is a committee for communications permissions. They are not allowing communication partners to call an API and create an item/grouping/item & channel relationship. They have to submit a request and VA Profile can go back to them with questions. If this passes the process, then the request can be created as a ticket for implementation.

### Who is responsible for usability testing?

This, in theory, should be done by the product line owner for the communication item.

**We should continue the conversation with VA Profile about this to make sure that we can maintain content, IA, and usability integrity.**
