# Notification settings sub-task: IA, Accessibility, FE discussion
10/27/22

**Attendees**: Liz Lantz, Adam Whitlock, John Cater, Tiffany Pender, Christina Gednalske, Angela Fowler and Mikki Northuis

## Background
The profile team talked about creating a new page to allow users to edit contact information as a sub-task to managing notification settings, but there are IA concerns with creating a new page for every possible update scenario.  We don’t want to have 45 pages with different mix and match fields based on different scenarios that need to be updated

We met to discuss:
- how we might create a page that dynamically pulls in whatever the relevant contact information is
- accessibility implications for a dynamic page

## Technical questions
- Adam: As far as IA goes. If the profile URL that was a single entry page was `/profile/edit/` is there a problem with query strings in the URL?
	- Mikki: No problems with that at all.It’s no different than what we do with search
- Adam: There are a couple of options. We can add query strings to the URL. Or, from a more traditional standpoint - there’s local storage, which doesn’t change from one page for the next.
		- we can leverage local storage to do this too, behind the scenes. 
		- It wouldn’t be lost if they reload the page

## Accessibility considerations
- as long as we make it clear to users where they are and what they need to do dynamic content isn’t a problem.
- We need to make sure it has a clear H1 and title tag.
- dynamic content will happen while the page is loading
- Question: What happens if the page is accessed from browsing history?
	- with the URL query string, it would behave the same way as a URL
- Button needs to be labeled to make to clear where someone is going to
	- maybe there’s some extra context for screenreader users?

## Decision
Move forward w/ a single URL and leverage query parameters for dynamic content. Query parameters are preferred over local storage in case someone accesses the URL for browsing history
