# 2.16.21 Chat with Terry, Maria, and Rafi

In attendance from our team: Samara, Matt, Erik, Sandra, Lihan, Tressa

**Subject 1: We need some sort of frontend gating system in place to be able to manage any changes before they are pushed to production (eg. a governance process where updates are always pushed to our staging environment for review before prod).**
 
- According to Terry’s governance flow chart, the VA Profile team is already planning to have VA.gov review all updates before they are launched to production. Updates will not be launched to production without our feedback. This means that as different groups, items, or even channels are added, **this information will be reviewed with us potentially first through meetings and calls, and then always in our staging environment before it goes live to production. At any point, VA.gov will have the opportunity to come back and recommend changes that are needed to ensure the integrity of usability, security, and content on VA.gov.** Everyone was in agreement about this, and Terry will update the flow chart and regroup with Samara on specifics as necessary.
 
**Subject 2: We don't know how different departments handle when a user has not set any preferences so on a user's profile page. It could say they are not subscribed to email updates when they actually are subscribed.**
 
This problem arises in the following case:

- A veteran has not formally opted in to a given communication permission (eg. appointment reminders).
- When the communication provider (Eg. VEText) receives the user’s communication permissions from VA Profile, they will receive that the user has made no selection either way around this permission (eg. appointment reminders).
- However, the communication provider may still default and send this user an appointment reminder, because their logic works like this: Send update if someone is opted-in OR no selection has been made; do not send if they have formally opted out.
- Given this, someone may actually receive a certain communication (eg. appointment reminders) when they never formally opted-in, and this could potentially be confusing when reviewing their communications permissions.
- This will not be addressed in the MVP. However, there was discussion of better handling of this in the future. We can talk exactly about how this will be handled when design is ready to work on the project.
 
**Subject 3: Will VA profile filter communication groups/channels by user? Example: User A has health care and User B does not. Is it safe to assume that User B should *not* see a “Health care” group as part of their communications preferences?**
 
- TL;DR: No, VA Profile will not do this kind of filtering, as they will not have access to that kind of information.
- Any gating of groups or items will need to be done on the frontend by VA.gov. This will need to be handled on a case by case basis given that we don’t know what data we are working with yet and therefore can not predict filtering, but this Is why overall governance of this feature and allowing VA.gov to fully review things is so important.
- There is no meaningful matrix of filtering for groups we can give to VA Profile to consider, as we don’t know how groups will be defined and how that might play into any filtering we would do. Additionally, it’s worth pointing out that any filtering we decide to do would be based on many of VA’s systems, as different user attributes are stored in many different places. However, over time we can share what filtering we’ve applied, but there’s no helpful guidance we can broadly provide now that should affect how VA Profile currently plans to handle things.
