# Notes from 3.30.21 chat with Terry, Liz, and AJ

## Project planning questions

- Given the original project timeline had us launching work early in April, how have things adjusted since then? Do you have a modified timeline?
- Do you have a list of the MVP notifications that will be included in this build? We will need real notifications and real data in order to do usability testing.
- For the MVP, are VEText and VANotify your only partners, or are there are other partners you'll be working with at the VA?
- Has your team started working on the integrations with any of your partners (eg. VEText, VANotify)? If no, when do you anticipate this will start, and how long do you think this will take?
- Have any of your partners (eg. VEText, VANotify) started to work on formalizing content (eg. the actual content that will be used for groups and items/notifications)? If no, when do you anticipate this will start, and how long do you think this will take?

## Design questions

- What error messages are built into the API? Is the API structured that we might only be able to load one piece of info (type, channel, or group) or do we get all or nothing?

## Notes from our call

- Here is the link to Liz’s current designs. It seemed like these designs went over really well in the meeting (thanks, Liz!), but please let us know if you have any feedback. We’ve constructed these based on our knowledge of how groups, items (eg. notifications) , and channels (eg. email and text) will function, so if you see anything that you think will be incompatible with the data you are sending us, let us know.
- VA Profile is going to have a finalized list of notifications that will be included in the MVP shortly. They are currently working with VEText, VANotify, and VBMS to get this finalized. The VADIR use case mentioned later in the call will likely not impact our initial launch.
- All final content/copy for groups and items will be defined in the governance process that will take place after the final list of notifications for the MVP. The rough estimate for how long this process will take was about three weeks. I’d also like to remind everyone that we may have additional feedback on this content/copy after our content team gets to review it and after we conduct usability testing. We talked about this feedback loop with Terry a few weeks ago, but I wanted to bring it up again so it can be considered in the timeline.
- VA Profile still has to work through details on data migration, including timeline. Planning for this will start this week.
- VA.gov timeline — Given all of the above, our plan is for Liz to finalize designs and to move on to frontend build on our end. However, we can not move into usability, qa testing, or other pre-launch activities without real content/data points from VA Profile, so we’ll still need at least a couple of months after we get the real content/data to go through all of those processes before pushing anything to production.
- Terry will send Liz a link to the swagger docs that document backend errors, but Tim noted that these do not include frontend errors. Liz will work with our frontend devs to figure out what is needed here.
