Notetakers Notes (Janelle)

Participant # 5 

Scenarios 

Date / 10/11/2023

Time / 2 – 3pm

Intro - 5 minutes

Warm-up Questions - 5 minutes

Talk to me about your past experience using VA.gov? Was that with a rep or by yourself?

Uhm, I would say, I I just started kinda using it in the past couple years. At first it was a bit challenging to navigate. I would say, it’s easier now. I have a grasp on what is where. I did file a claim back in April, and, I had a little bit of help navigating with that, but, overall, uhm aside from just kind of waiting for my claim to process, and not knowing what is going on and the few details of what they show me there. It’s fairly easy to navigate now compared to when I first started.

Filed claim on VA.gov

Fellow Veteran who had gone through the process before

Could you tell me about the types of benefits you are receiving from the VA at this time? 

Currently in therapy with the VA, that’s the only benefit that I’m using right now. I haven’t used my GI bill. Uhm, or anything else.

It is the (first time) I’ve filed a disability claim.

If they are getting disability compensation from the VA right now, ask:

About how many conditions are you receiving benefits for?

Initially, I only claimed PTSD. But then I went to an event and I talked to a VSO and she ended up adding on like, I think 3 other things to the claim. Uhm, And I was a little bit hesitant doing that? Because I was told before it can take longer if you add on more, and so like after doing that I was kinda like why did I do that? Uhm, and so yeah, I haven’t really heard anything back. It’s been, uhm, I guess may… about 6 months know since I filed my claim and I, I was able to get my CMP exam back in August. So since then it’s kinda been radio silence. So initially I only did the one for PTSD but then the VSO encouraged me to do a few more while I was there, so.

If you’re comfortable sharing this information, what are some of those conditions?

Scenario 3/Blue: Request CFI for Tinnitus with Friction - 15 minutes 

Screen 1 (Start)

Do you have any questions before you start?

Screen 2 (Veteran Details screen)

As I mentioned before, this is fake data. You can imagine this is your personal information. Go ahead and show me how you would get started.

Screen 3 (New or Increase) → Screen 4 (New or Increase)

Talk me through what you would do on this screen.

Screen 5 (Select conditions)

What can you tell me about the conditions on this screen?

Ok, so, uhm, (user is clicking through screen), one of my conditions has gotten worse. (pauses on rated disabilities screen). So degenerative arthritis, so it says you’re at the max rating for tinnitus, so uhm, ok. 

Does that mean I can’t, uhm, obtain any more compensation for that (tinnitus)? That’s what I interpret from it.

Uhm, that uhm, I’ve got 5 different conditions, that uhm the tinnitus is at it’s max rating, uhm, that uhm, well from just my knowledge about generative arthritis, it, the right arm might also be impacted by that. I’m not certain if that’s what your question is. Uhm, yeah I’m not sure.

What do you think about your eligibility for more benefits?

Can you tell me about the messaging for Tinnitus and what you think it means?

I actually do, I intend to apply for tinnitus, but yeah this is unfamiliar to me.

What do you think you would do after reading that message about Tinnitus?

Which of these conditions could you ask for more comp?

I would say everything, but the tinnitus.

Just from the information you gave me, you didn’t mention that it necessarily had anything to do with the right arm, range of motion.

Screen 6 (Tinnitus Friction)

Can you tell me what this page is about?

You’re already at the max rating for tinnitus, would you still like to request an increase? It tells me it’s possible to ask for an increase even though it says I’m at the maximum. So uhm, I would say yes, just because there is an option available here.

What is this text telling you? 

What do you think you would do next?

Click here. (Opened the dropdown and reads the content). Uhm, ok, so uhm, would that be something uhm that Alex has missed work or hospitalizations?

[User asks if Alex has gone to the hospital.] “Then I would say no, there isn’t evidence (for an increase).

This is the last screen for this prototype. Before we go to the next one, can you tell me if reading that information would influence your decision to file a claim for increase? 

Scenario 2/Purple: Request CFI for Tinnitus - 15 minutes 

Screen 1 (Start)

Do you have any questions before you start?

Screen 2 (Veteran Details screen)

As I mentioned before, this is fake data. You can imagine this is your personal information. Go ahead and show me how you would get started.

Screen 3 (New or Increase) → Screen 4 (New or Increase)

Talk me through what you would do on this screen.

Screen 5 (Select conditions)

[User had no comments or pauses on previous screens]

[User reads content out loud.] That tells me that uhm I can possibly increase the arthritis but not the tinnitus, so uhm, I would probably not click the tinnitus, but it still allows for it even if it still allows for it, so I’m going to click it to see what comes up.

If you were going to choose to increase, which conditions would you increase?

Would click it because it allows me to click it, it’s available, and I’d see what comes up on the next page.

What can you tell me about the conditions on this screen?

What do you think about your eligibility for more benefits?

Definitely the first 3, it looks like the second are maxed out, so I would def think the first 3 would be uhm able to be higher.

Likelihood of getting increases?

It depends on whats going on. If I hadn’t seen the last screen I would think uhm, just given what uh I see here, I would think I would be able to get a higher rating, but with the fact that it allows it to click on it that there is more information to know uhm, that I might not possibly know already. So.

When do you expect to get more info?

The next page.

What does the phrase ‘Maximum Possible Rating’ mean to you?

It tells me that that is uhm, generally the highest possible rating of if I had I mean absolutely no experience I would think that was the absolute limit was 10%. Uh I would think that uhm it just it they don’t go any higher than that. That that’s the ceiling.

Any other ways to get more info?

(User sees the dropdown and reads info) Ok so, more information at the bottom. It took me a minute to see that. Uhm, but yeah.

Does that influence what you would decide to do?

This person, did they have an unusual experience, missed work, or hospitalizations? So yeah, if it’s gotten more distracting and more frequent that’s probably unusual experience so I would go ahead and try and push on and see what happens.

What is this text telling you? What do you think you would do after reading it?

This is the last screen for this prototype. Before we go to the next one, can you tell me if reading that information would influence your decision to file a claim for increase? 

Compare prototypes

Now that you’ve looked at the two different prototypes, can you tell me about the differences in how you experienced each of them?

[In blue prototype] Uhm, so the separation of uhm the conditions that were at their max rating was one difference. The other difference that there was more information at the bottom of the screen on the second one, the purple. The more information on the following page for the blue, and then uhm, I would say, maybe the blue is a little more easier to navigate because I wasn’t necessarily able to see the link the more info on the purple right away. Uhm, yeah.

[In blue] Uhm, I think having the second screen with the yellow box, it’s a lot easier to read visually and then it has this do you still want to ask for an increase. There's a follow through. I don’t know, I like this way a little bit better.

What made it better?

The yellow box is easier to read, and yeah, the follow up question.

Follow up question how did it help you decide what to do?

It didn’t help me to understand the situation but it kinda gave the uhm, well I guess I was more likely to click yes on the purple. So, yeah uhm, I don’t know.

One without the yellow box they were more likely to go for tinnitus.

All the conditions are listed together, vs on the purple it had them separated, thoughts?

I think having them separated makes it seem makes it more like less ambiguous. Like this is 100%. Period. Where as this one is all together even though it says you’re at the maximum rating it’s less decisive I guess. It’s less clear than the other version.

Are there any other differences you noticed?

I don’t think so besides from the note at the bottom.

[Goes back to purple, asks if she noticed the difference in content] Oh it has the maximum possible ratings. Uhm, yeah, so, I don't know I think makes me think this makes me feel more like uhm what like how can we push to get the maximum possible rating?

Saw she wasn’t at the highest rating.

What does tinnitus and migraines say?

That it’s at the possible rating I’m not sure?

Max possible rating in this version, and max rating in the other does that mean anything to you?

Def adding possible rating makes it like less like, feels less ambiguous, that is set in stone. Maximum rating is more fluid I guess.

Any idea why, did you know there were max ratings?

I did not.

No (doesn’t know why there are maxes). Certain things cause more day to day inability to do things than other things.

Between these two prototypes, which do you think would be more likely to influence your decision about whether or not to submit a claim for increase on Tinnitus or other conditions?

The purple one. It has more info immediately available and having that max possible rating makes me more likely to obtain that max possible rating.

I think I’m more likely to be influenced in not asking for an increase with the blue.

Thank-You and Closing - 5 minutes

In general, I’d love to hear what do you think about your overall experience - being scheduled for this research session, participating in the research session. Could we have done anything differently/better?

I’m not really sure how I started getting the emails. It kind of just started coming to my email inbox, so I looked through it and at first I was skeptical about what it was, I never really participated in something like this before. So, I signed up for one a couple weeks ago and it didn’t work out for some reason or another I don’t know if it was my end or not. This time I saw that there was like, I think, incentive like a $50 gift card or something and so I went ahead and signed up and I saw that it was on VA.gov research on how to make it better and I just feel like I’ve struggling to try and hold it together while my claims been processing. Just been waiting and waiting and waiting and it says the same thing every time I come back. I dunno I thought maybe participating in this might give me some insight into how the website works and how the claims work so I wanted to do it for that reason. Overall positive experience.

Anything the recruiting firm could have done differently?

I think it was fairly clear (opens email). Yeah their reminder was really nice, it gave me, they gave me a reminder in my calendar. Uhm really easy to navigate. Uhm, what was the, there was a consent form, that was pretty easy to take care of. Yeah I think it was fairly straight forward. About what to expect and having a computer ready. Yeah and the links and everything worked just fine. So uhm, I wish I could have more critical feedback for you.

Your feedback is so helpful to us as we continue to work on the site and make sure it really works for Veterans. I just want to check once more that you are still feeling good about us using your feedback or if you would like to redact anything we discussed today?

I have attached TMJ to my PTSD claim, is it possible to take that off the claim? Or once it’s on there is it permanently on there?

