# Profile Personal Information Research Notes

Participant: P1

Date: ?

**Conversation Guide**

Start recording.

**I have started recording.** I'd like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record my screen and the audio as we talk today? Yes

## Task 1: General Page Impression (Layout/Terminology) - 3 minutes

Participant is on the Personal Information section page - fields say "edit your personal information to add your [info]"

**Could you tell me your thoughts on what you see here? What can you do on this page?**

It seems fairly clearly laid out and fairly consistent with other profile update screens that i've interacted with. I like the fact that you've got this little piece here - Why we ask for this information - because sometimes, I'm not so much concerned about this because personally I understand that in a healthcare environment there are certain demographic information requirements that enable better care. Um but I think other folks might be concerned about you know why is it that the VA needs all of this information so I think thats good. Um and I like this (referring to 2nd FAQ) - especially that last part here "sex assigned at birth"

I'm big on inclusion. And I think you're going to get some pushback on this from folks who are more traditional but I'm atheist so don't have any religious hangups over that sort of thing and in fact I'm a strong proponent of that aspect of our society. The rest of it seems fairly well laid out. Good with the inclusion here on the pronouns though again expect to get some pushback on that possibly from other corners. Ya it's pretty good.

**Which of these sections, if any, are important to you?**

Probably the Date of Birth - um ya that's it. I mean they're all relative information to me but um as far as what I want to make sure they really have right...ya...not too many hang ups over this stuff. You know what I dislike is that there is a lot of scrolling involved in this. I would prefer - I've seen some other screens where it's laid out more in a grid pattern, side to side, each section is available, without too much moving around the screen.

**Can you say more about why that's problematic for you?**

Um cuz I'm lazy. No, that's really it. I've gotten used to some really well done user interfaces that just make it very simple and straightforward and easy for you to access each portion of information. And so you've got a good thing up here on the sideline. And in fact looking at the overall layout I'd say it looks a little bit squashed down the middle of the screen. You could move these things over to the left a little bit and then have a box over here, so you could do something like that. But honestly it's just laziness. I'd like to not have to scroll down and be curious about what's coming next but rather see it all right here on the splash screen.

And is there a reason why they have to be one after the other like that? And the block is really large over here. You can see earlier in the video I'm wearing reading glasses and a lot of the VA clients are going to be dealing with site issues, so maybe the font can be a little bigger but you can do one block like this with a larger date of birth and an edit button. You know Preferred name larger font and then an edit button there and then have on the other side of the screen more of those blocks.

**Is the font size difficult to read as it is right now?**

Um without my reading glasses ya it's a little bit fuzzy, but if I put my  reading glasses on it's just fine.

**Do you have any questions about what you see here on this page?**

No - it all makes perfect sense to me. Although I'll say again with some of the older generations dealing with this... as I get into this it gets into more social engineering because you're asking for people's pronouns and that's a dog whistle for the conservative side of the house. Sex assigned at birth - why don't just ask me what my sex is, you know. Gender identity again pushback on that. Sexual orientation - again you got a very conservative crowd that you're going to be dealing with and I think it's going to cause some problems.

You might consider, man, here's the problem. You know I talk about inclusion and all that and you know one of my thoughts is how do you get people to offer this stuff up or make it available for those who need to offer it up and for whom it's very important without pissing off all of the people who think it's a bunch of tripe.

And I'm not sure I have a quick off the cuff suggestion for you there other than maybe if you're looking for personal information, the splash screen is not the place to potentially alienate people right off the bat. But at the same time, looking from an inclusion standpoint, you wanna make sure that the people for whom these things are very important feel comfortable in this space.

**You just said about alienating people - can you say more about that?**

I'm just thinking about folks like my dad, who is a Vietnam Vet. And from discussions with him, I know that he would find these things at least mildly objectionable, simply because he's from that generation that generation that "oh I don't have to worry about a gender identity because I have a sex assigned at birth, and sex assigned at birth is crap because I never changed my sex." Right? And so again you've got a younger generation like myself who's more accepting of this and - like I walk past this stuff. This just doesn't matter to me. But I'm enough in tune with other aspects of the potential population you're dealing with that I know that some of these people are really going to have a really hard time with it. People I served with.

**I think that's a totally valid point. It's definitely understandable, it's definitely a tricky balancing act.**

Ya - now having said that I lean in the direction of inclusion and you know if you don't like it, just don't click the button.

## Task 2: Review Profile Sections - 10 minutes

### Preferred Name

**Talk to me about what this means to you:**

Um, when I call in or get an email from somebody, I want them to know that even though my registered name with the VA/the military, etc. is Hector Benjamin Garcia, I actually go by you know John Smith. So when they get in touch with me I want them to refer to me as John.

**Ok so in that example, what would you type into that field?**

Well if this was my actual name up here, I would just type my first name.

### Pronouns

**Talk to me about these options - what is your understanding of them?**

Again very familiar with the aspect here. Um and I would click on he/him/his I identify as straight cis-gender, but I'm familiar with - although I haven't seen it very much Ze/zir/zirs, and I think it's a good way to show inclusion, especially for the people who are more on the fringe. So there's two aspects of this, there's the placement of the pronouns that offers the client the ability to identify the pronouns and then there's how comfortable they are with the concept that the healthcare provider is going to abide by those pronouns in a non-judgmental way. Because our healthcare providers are also bringing their prejudices with them.

**So you're saying that a consideration is not only that we're offering these terms, but some folks may not trust that they're used appropriately?**

Yes absolutely, I think that's going to be a matter of experience with they're healthcare providers. Have they developed a relationship with that person, do they trust them, do they treat them with respect and dignify them as a person? Actually this is the first time I've seen this - "Use my preferred name" - and that totally negates the need for Pronouns. Interesting thing there because I'm kind of a logic chain black and white type of person - I try and think how things are going to proceed. So if you've got someone for whom pronouns are an anathema, then they look at the Preferred name and go "Ok ya I just want them to call me John" and then they're not even going to click on the pronouns because they think it's just bunk, and so chances are the healthcare provider will default to he/him/his for male, she/her/hers for female, or potentially use their preferred name (if they haven't made a selection in pronouns). Again some of that population is gonna say "they don't need to know my pronouns, that's bullshit. And they might not even click it open.

But I like the fact that there's an option down here for other preferred (referring to text input box)

**Talk to me about that text box - what is your understanding of how that would work?**

Well if I had something other than any of these explicitly stated options, then I would be able to use a set of pronouns here that apply to me and elaborate on that there.

**Is there anything here that is confusing to you?**

No, I don't think so.

**Is there anything that's missing?**

Not for me, but I'm not a social scientist so I'm not in tune with all the possible aspects that could be represented here.

### Gender Identity

**Talk to me about these options - what is your understanding of them?**

Well it's kind of a mirror image of the pronouns. But I think it's a really well laid out. Some people have - I've hear this from other people, I have an objection - to male or female, so man or woman I think is actually a good choice. Most of the time when someone's asked - if not given are you a man or a woman, they're say I'm a man or a woman, rather than male or female. So I think that's a good thing. I like the fact that you've got a least three other options here. Non-binary, prefer not to answer, and a gender not listed here. So I think this covers all of the bases, but again not a social scientist so I don't know what I'm missing. But it's fairly straightforward. When I look at this I know what I'm getting into.

**And so my next question - is there anything that's confusing?

Nope, not confusing at all.

### Sexual Orientation

**Talk to me about these options - what is your understanding of them?**

Again very straightforward. You'll probably get some pushback from folks that think you need to put straight or heterosexual at the top and then everything else because "they're all second-class citizens." If it were me, I'd kind of lean toward alphabetizing, so I might put bisexual, lesbian, Queer, straight, in that order, and then others. Just so it's laid out in a...I like order. So if I was going to order these things I would do it that way. As opposed to the societal construct of what's most - and I'm not trying to hurt anyone's feelings - but what's most allowed vs. what's least allowed, which is what I think a lot of folks would play it out. Outside of that though, I think it's just fine. These are good choices for that crowd (lesbian, gay, or homosexual), these are good choices for that crowd (straight or heterosexual). Having bisexual in there I think it relevant; a lot of these folks are very clear that they do not fall into this crowd (lesbian, gay, or homosexual). "Don't know"...that's actually. I don't know that I've seen that before, but for those who are questioning, ya that's fine. (Referring to "a sexual orientation not listed here") And then that's also pretty neat; I haven't seen that before. And then you're probably going to ask about the block at the bottom. And so ya I think you do good to open the door for folks who do not identify strictly along any of these lines but maybe a combination of several - to have an opportunity to state their preference there.

**A couple follow up questions about what you said, you mentioned alphabetizing these options, you didn't mention that looking at any of the other sections and I'm curious why not.**

That's a good question. Probably because I wasn't thinking about it then. Sometimes we build off things and so...let's look at Pronouns. It occurred to me here in this section that, you know we're a traditional patriarchal society and um probably you might get a couple complaints about - it's possible you'd get a couple complaints that "why aren't men up at the top and women after and then all this other crap down below. That had occurred to me, but then it didn't click until I was getting into this last section. A build up of awareness.

**Ok so take a look at this sexual orientation one and I just want to point out the text box there. We talked about it here and for pronouns, and if you go back to gender identity, did you notice that there isn't one here previously.**

Oh gender not listed here. Was that not there before?

**Well the option was there, but there's no text box and I'm just curious if there's any thoughts about you having one in the other sections but not here.**

Um let's think. So it's not a concern for me, so I tend to dismiss the option as one I need to pay attention to. I put on my blinder and focus my options on those that are relevant to me. But I suppose if - if that was relevant to you and you didn't feel like a gender not listed here was the best one then ya a text box would probably be good. Good question.

## Interview - 5 minutes

**As we've been talking, I've heard you mention a healthcare provider and this information being used in a healthcare context, so that tells me that you understand the VA would use this information about a Veteran in a healthcare context, are there other ways you can think of - why you think the VA would use this information?**

Oh ya and I did briefly touch on it. I think I used the word demographic information earlier. My wife's an RN and I'm very comfortable with all this kinds of stuff in a healthcare setting, but I also know that the VA is looking at the overall demographics of their client and trying to have a good understanding of who it is they're dealing with so they can either provide care and/or services outside of care in a much more efficient manner. If you have good demographic information on your clients then you're able to reach them better.
