# Profile Personal Information Research Notes

P3

1/3/2022, 11am EST

*start tasks on personal information prototype*

**I'm going to have you go through a few parts of this to help us understand if changes or improvements need to be made. Dont' click on anything yet but tell me your thoughts.**

****

Well it seems like it's to update my profile, or someones profile, and it gives you some updates to update your profile perfeed name (reads fields)

Uh, one thing I have a problem with is sexual orientation. Why does tht need to be added? Why should that be added? I figure if they say [says full name], well [says full name]is a [gender's] name, well I'm old fashioned I guess. You have to remember also that there's al ot of us old fashioned type VEterans and at the same time ther's a lot of younger veterans, I realize that. But the older generation is a more popiluspou group. There's a lot more older veterans than there are the younger ones. But the younger ones are catching up. II can understand why they hav sexucal oriantion but I don't feel comfortable with it. Because, uh, well, one thing, I'm gay. So, if someone sees that in my profile, they're automatically going to get a thought in their head and assume something. So, uh, that is the only thing that I really have a problem with.

**OK, so if you saw this in your own profile, what would you do?**

I would try and complain to somebody. I'm not going to fill something like that out, I don't feel like it's necessary.

**Based on what you see here do you feel like it's required for you to fill that out?**

It looks like it's required but I would still refuse or leave it blank.

**What indicates to you that it's requred?**

The blue edit button. It's saying you have to edit it because it's required. But like I said, I would talk to someone and say, listen, that's not a valid question because nowadays you're supposed to have the freedom to not have sexual orientation to discriminate against you. You know like if you file for a job or something like that, if you put your sexual orientation, you know, and somebody takes on an attitude of well [they're] gay [they] can't be trusted because the first [same gender] that comes along, they're going to run off with them. That's not the way we are, we're just like everybody else.

**Of course, I can see that it's concerning that someone could misuse the information**

Yes, that's what my thought is.

**Ok, well which of tehse sections are improtant to you, if any?**

Preferred name, that's the only one that's really important because (*shares story from childhood where he had to advocate to get people to use the name he liked*)

**What questions do you have about what you see here?**

To fill out the profile, personal information, I don't see any problem with. Contact information, that can change, I'm not in touch with my family so I don't have them as contact information. (*misunderstands contact info to contain emergency contact information. Continues to read down sidebar which is not relevant to this research*). Everything else looks ok.

**I'd like to get your thoughts on the different sections on the page. Go ahead and start with preferred name, and take a look of that and tell me what it means to you and what you'd enter into that field**

I would say [first name last name]. I don't use my middle name unless it's absolutely necessary for legal documents. That's all I would enter. Not a lot of people use their middle name.

**How would you expect that to be used once you saved that to your profile?**

That'd be used to identify me in the files. They'd check the army files and they'd find my name, DOB, SSN, which is everything that identifies me in the VA system. Like pronouns, I don't see any use of adding that to my profile. *Laughs* If they can't figure out at the VA what to call me, ma'am, sir, young man, whatever. Someone needs to get glasses *laughs*.

**Let's talk about those options. Click into that and let me know what you thnk about what you see there.**

If I have to click anything, it would be use my preferred name.

**Ok, and why is that?**

That's what I want to be called. I wouldn't want to be called he/his, they/them. What is zir/zirs? I've never heard of that before. *Sigh* Prounouns not listed here? *Sigh* Well I guess if someone is transgender. That would be a tricky situation. Not that I'm planning on doing anything, I prefer myself just the way I am.

**Sure, but you can understaand that'd be useful to someone in that situation.**

Yes, it can also be used detrimental to someone,

**How so?**

Well, don't get me wrong. There's a lot of straight-laced Christians who will definitely use that to someone's disadvantage. I know there's a good size population of them, but at the same time I don't believe they have everyone's best interest at heart. They have their own social agenda and feel like gays, transgenders, and lesbians don't have a valid vote, opinion or anything else. They feel like they're an abomination. And that's just something you have to look out for. Say I was transgender, and I ran into someone like that. I would have to report them, that's how I am. There's a lot of people who would just shrink away and not bother answering thing again. They might shy away from the whole VA system unless that's their only recourse.

**Do you think there's a risk that those types of people would get that information from your VA profile?**

To be honest yes. There's a very real possibility that someone in the VA system would see that and automatically take up arms against them. They could do something detrimental to that pereson without that person realizing it. But you know, it's caused a ripple effect down to where it does hurt that person.

**Who do you think will have access to this information in your profile?**

I would hope only immediate people that need it for office use. There are going to be some people, and I know they're not supposed to, but I know there are some people who do take personal information and keep it aside for their own use. We wouldn't be human if someone didn't do it, and I know for a fact of someone who's had that happen to them. SOmeone copied their information copied their information off their files and started using it against them. So the person did what I was talking about, they shyed away form the VA, they wouldn't answer emails or mail or anything, because they were afraid this person was going to get them.

**Is there anything that you think could be shared here that might provide reassurance that that would not happen? Kind of give more trust that the information would not be misused.**

Well, the people at the office that handle this kind of incormation, there needs to be a strict confidentiialltiy clause for everybody to sign. First of all, everyone at the VA should sign one. Then they should make stricter ones for people who can share personal information. And really make strict and harsh consequenes if they're caught using that information for personal gain. You know, the person I was talking about, they were paying this guy not to use his information. Becuse, he was afraid his family was going to find out he was gay, and thinking about a sex change operation and all that. He was doing it all on his own money, bt when someone tells you they're going to use that against you, your first thought is to rebel and back away from it, and not have anything to do with it. Finally, I was able to talk to him and tell hiim to take some action otherwise it's never going to stop.

**Let's move on to the other section of the profile. I want to get your input on these other two sections too. Let's look at gender identy. Let me know your thoughts on these optioins and your unuderstanding of them.**

*Clicks into gender identity* One thing I've never understood is non-binary. *Laughs* I can understand there being people like that but having it on your profile? *recording gap* If someone is non-binary, they're so far off the left or right, I mean, myself, I wouldn't take anything they said seriously. Because they're going to start using different pronouns for themselves...I guess I have a preconceived notion. Don't get me wrong, I'm human, I"m going to automatically think weird things about them. I won't tell them that, but I might say something to somebody else, like that guy's not playing with a full deck. I wouldn't say, oh my god look at that, and go on and on about it. I might just make the comment that that person's not playing with everyone iin the room.

**Got it. I know you don't undrestand why someone would make that choice. In terms of the terminolgy, is there anything confusing?**

I would take the non-binaroy or a gender not listed here off. Because, you know, you're gonna identity as a man or a woman, and if you don't want to identify as other, just prefer not to anser. That's the obvious thing to me. I guess I come from an older generation, but I have a lot of newer ideas, being my upbringing and stuff like that, I question things. And I still question things as I get older.

**Is there anything here that's missing?**

No. Like I said, take out the two things and everything else is listed.

**I see you've jumped ahead to sexual orientation, so let's talk about that. I know you said when you first saw the page that you would nix that whole section. Seeing the options in there now, again, talk to me about your understanding of them and what you think about these.**

Well, first of all, I think asking someone sexual orientation, that's none of anybody's business but my own. Everybody has preconceived notions about what as traight person is. I know that people say they don't but everyone has a preconceived notioin about lesbian, gay, and homosexual. I have a preconceived notion about what lesbians are. It's not bad, because I've known a few in my lifetime, but and I consider myself gay. I consider the term gay to be open, honest, and uh, ready to question things. And homoesexual, I just think that's an outdated terminology. Lesbian and gay is all you need. Straight. If someone wants to stay they're heterosexual, they're automatically straight. So why have two options? You're straight. Bi-sexual, well there are some people that say it but they don't want to put it on their profile or anything. Queer. I hate that term. To me, queer means different, odd, not normal. You show me a normal person and I'll show you half the world is crazy. Or I'll show you someone who is crazy or not playing with a full deck.

**Is there anything here that's missing?**

No. Sexual orientation should not be listed there. Prefer not to answer. That's an obvious choice, if someone doesn't want to identify as gay or bisexual, that would be the obvious choice.

**We talked about this a little bit but I just want to revisit - how do you think the VA will use this information about a person in their profile?**

Uh, well, sexual orianetion thing, you know, they might use that to try and help sociological help, becuase certain communities it's sacceptble to get help and things like that. Bisexual people, unless they're in dire straights, they're not going to ask because they'd be afraid someone miight find out. Straight people ask for help all the time. Lesvian and gay people ask for help, but they're more closted about it. They don't want people to find out. They might tell some people about it, but they don't want it to be widely known. Because there are still prejudice against them.

**What about the other sections, how do you think the VA would use that information about you?**

Well, my own personal opinion, I think man or woman should be all that's necessary (*looking at gender identiy section*). If they're a transgender woman or man, they're a woman or man. That's all they need. That's my personal opinion,

**How do you think the VA, once a person made those selections, how would the VA use that from a person's profile?**

First of all, they'd give a questioning look, and if they were someone they thought they could talk to it about, they'd say *lowers voice* Did you know so-and-so is a transgender woman? I thought they were so straight acting, and butch.

**Ok, if you scroll up a little bit, did you notice those questions at the top of the page?**

*scrolls to the top of the page* Yes. 
**You did notice them. Do they look clickable? Did you think they were clickable when you first noticed them?**

*Hesitates. Then clicks, starts to read content.* Yeah...I can understand it. They need some of this information in order to help us and update their records. If someone just uses the VA for emergency health care, like if tehyt're traveling, I can understand they need that information. But, uh, it's all pretty necessary nowadays, we have to have all this information. That's why if someone is in a wreck, they go through the person's wallet and information. They don't know who the person is, they don't know who to contact. Like myself, if they see my membership card from the american legion, they'll know I'm a veteran and contact the VA.

**You mentioned before about contact information having your emergecny contact information. So do you think this content here applies to all the sections of profile, or just the information here on this personal information page?**

I think it applies to everything.

**Did you notice that some of the fields can't be edited?**

Yes. Why can't I edit my own profile, my own information? If that's what it's supposed to be, my record, I wnt it to reflect my unuderstanding of waht I'm trying to project to the VA or anybody else who needs to see this information.

**If you wanted to update that, is there anything that could help you do that? That would show you how to change the infornation in the uneditable fields?**

*scrolls* First of all, pronouns and preferred name, I think is redundant. Well, pronouns, I think is ridiculous, but preferred name, that's redundant. If they're looking for someone, they're not going to say, Oh I wonder what he wants to be called by. They shouldn't have to think well what's his preferred name, what does he want to be called. If it's an emergency information or if it's information that someone eneds to get a hold of them, they're going to use their first name.

**Ok, well, there's one other page II wanted to show you but before we move away from this, can you talk a littl ebit about how this page lines up with your expectations?**

Well, like I said, the preferred name, the pronouns, and gender identity - gender identity is self explanatory. Pronouns shoudl be deleted. If someone walks up to you and looks and dresses and sounds like a man, what are you going to think? This is a man not a woman. Preferred name, that should be whatever is on your file. If you talk to your doctor and you tell them you want to be called Jon or Johnny, that's up to your doctor to call you that. They're geting that information from you yourself. Whereas you know, if it's someone else, like if you're checking in, yoou're going to say "First name, last name" checking in for my doctor appt. I'm not going to say "another name" checking in.

**What if you had Franklin in your preferred name in your profile? Would you expect to walk into a doctors office and say, hey I'm Franklin and they would know who you are?**

Yes, if it's in my information, then that's what I should be called. If that's what I want to be called, I'll let people know. If it's not, same thing, I will let people know.

**Let's switch gears. *Sends prototype link to contact information page and gives scenario to update home address typo.***

*Hovers over mailing address edit button* Click edit.

**This is for home address.**

Chrome address? Oh, fix the zip code. Um, well...*scrolls down and back up* there's nothing in the [side bar] the only thing I can see is your contact information. Your contact information is what you're filling out. And you go down to where it says mailing, and you click edit.

**What if it's wrong for your home address?**

You click edit and try and put it in, and if it won't let you, contact the VA.

**OK, can you click edit under home address and try to edit that?**

*Participant clicks edit under home address and starts scrolling.*

**Actually, before you go down further, I'm curious, that checkbox that says Use my mailng address for my home address, if you checked that what would you expect to happen?**

The home address would be the one they have for mailing. Which would be wrong, But if tehy have the one for washington DC would be wrong.

**So if you click that box, and it was not a prototype, you would expect the home address to be the mailing address?**

Yes

**Ok, go ahead and fix that typo in the zip code**

*Participant scrolls down*. I would click here *zip code field* and type in and just click update.

**Go ahead and do that. And talk to me about what you see here now**

Uh, well, it's obviously wrong, they still have both addresses, and it's asking me if I want to update my mailing address. And that's not correct if they have the wrong zip code.

*Clicks no*

**OK, well that's all I wanted to get your input on. Do you have any questions for me?**

No
