**Conversation Guide**

Start recording.

- **I have started recording.** I'd like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record my screen and the audio as we talk today? Yes

**Task 1: General Page Impression (Layout/Terminology) - 3 minutes**

Participant is on the Personal Information section page - fields say "edit your personal information to add your [info]"

- Could you tell me your thoughts on what you see here? What can you do on this page? Okay. Well um honestly I don’t really like it. I am a little mad at it. Okay, so um to start off with I am transgender and I put that as a different gender. Anything I have with the military it brings up a dead name and you cant change it to by what your name you go by now. When sex assigned at birth I don’t know why that’s there. It brings a ag of worms for transgender. I think the preferred name and pronouns is fine. I don’t understand why gender identity is there, I know they say male, female, non-binary. Theres assigned as birth and what’s the gender now. It’s a thorn in the side you know. Yeah. I mean with all of the progress that ahs been made with individuals that are transgendered its not very nice in my opinion.
  
- Still keeping initial information on file and making you see it then putting new stuff, almost like they aren’t accepting you: Yeah pretty much. Its like you want to identify me as I was and not who I am now. It’s a smack in the face. Ill admit I don’t know why its there because personal infomration I don’t know why its there only for the fact that it may have to do with biology questions but that’s for doctors not on here.
  
- Sex at birth or all sections: Basically just assigned at birth. I don’t know about other places but in NC they will not let transgenders donate blood. It is almost like being discriminated against
  
- Which of these sections, if any, are important to you? Preferred name, I think that’s a given even when starting school. Pronouns is really excellent but I think it would be better if utilized by the facility. If it isnt transferred over then I don’t think that its useful unless actually used.
  
- Would it be used: I mean going back up here and it says the factors can effect a person’s health, staff will use when there. I understand the theory but theres a difference, they will have it vs they will sue the information. Unless it is implements by a standard or regulation it doesn’t matter. I have had plenty of people call me maim. It doesn’t matter at that point.
  
- - (If needed) Which one is the highest priority? I would say pronouns. You know I have a daughter and adopted them and provided a flexible name for male or female. I wanted her not to feel like how I felt having to change a name. if anything happens that she’s transgender she would have an easier transition. I don’t really understand why you would put sexual orientation other than data collection. When trump came up with taking the surgeries away and health professionals can refuse rights. There has been a debate about medical care and if you put your sexual orientations you will have bias doctors. They may not provided the care needed.
  - Have to provide it: it says edit so I assume you don’t have to. If I saw this or for people younger they might think they will use it without understanding it could be positive or negative.
- (if not mentioned) What questions do you have about what you see here?
  
- - Do you see anything here that might help you answer those questions? Its asking for information and I understand. And clicking on this might give me a better idea. I understand what they say here but it doesn’t tell me why they ask why they ask what you were born as. We have a non-dairy thing going on and then sometimes the parents are forced to pick their kids genders by doctors. I am more liberal with that. Anyway that doesn’t help me.

**Task 2: Review Profile Sections - 10 minutes**

**Preferred Name**

- Talk to me about what this means to you: It can mean serval things for a person that is heterosexual, for someone that has transitioned they may have a gender neutral name or name change legally rather than having it done within the va because it takes a long process to do. It is basic to be honest and you can change it whenever. That also brings up if it is used in the office or not. younger kids cold go in there and change it to crazy things.
- What would you enter into this field? I would put Damon. On my profile it says Sir Damon so people can be funny with it.

**Pronouns**

- Talk to me about these options - what is your understanding of them? You know it is basic I am familiar with ze/zir/zirs. Preferred name I haven’t seen that before. The box is nice because they can put in what they want but it may be a bit odd if they put space cadent.
- Is there anything that's missing? No I know a lot of non-binary prefer they/them/their. It covers everything I know about. I am not focused on my transition so I may not know the updates.
- What would you select for this field? Yes

**Gender Identity**

- Talk to me about these options - what is your understanding of them? What you have listed is accurate and the American culture. What I am saying is everyone wants to be recognized and I don’t believe in that personally. I would offer the suggestion that transgender tend to go by transman, its like wording. That’s the lingo in the community. Gender fluid because some don’t want a categorize, its just a different category of gender.

**Sexual Orientation**

- Talk to me about these options - what is your understanding of them? Again basic and accurate for American culture. The things not listed are a sexual. Theres a ton of things out there but a sexual is one that’s not there, pansexual or omnisexual aren’t on there. I mean you could click and write in. very much so, honestly it looks like this is collected for database for the type of individuals within the va instead of the medical field. It seems like throwing categories out for people. Hopefully to better the processes and benefits of the va.
- Medical context and service: yes and if it is used in the medical side they can help but it’s a double edged sword. In data collect and who is serving who and to improve it for management then it would be more beneficial.
- Other ways for it to be used: putting people in boxes and demographic analysis to better the services.

**Interview - 5 minutes**

- (if needed) Did you notice that some of the fields can't be edited? They didn’t have the box to add. It was probably just extracted form files and you cant change the DOB I understand that. I am still mad at the sex assigned at birth. It is a personal thing, slap in the face. Stiving for 25 years to be this other person then this is a smack in the face.
- (if not mentioned) What are your thoughts on the order of the information on this page?
  - When vie seen this it is normally, preferred name and how to be called.
- How did this page line up with your expectations?
  - I didn’t have any expectations, typically personal information it’s just name, DOB, address, number. So you know when you see this it doesn’t line up with typical thing. Cant say tis not interesting.

**Task 3: Address reminder modal - 3 minutes**

- How to fix the typo: Under edit and click the box to use the address. Go to the zip code, then click update. It updated the zip code and will send it to Douglas way address, asking to update to reflect home address. So that could be a yes or no if you want prescriptions to go to where you moved.
- What would you expect to happen if you checked that first checkbox? It would just default to the Douglas way address.

**Closing - 3 minutes**

Do you have any questions for me? no
