# VIC 01-25-2018, 6:00 PM, P5
 
[Recording](https://dsva.slack.com/files/U772MC9BQ/F8ZR86RLN/2018-01-25_18.10_va_website_feedback_session_p5.mp4)

## Session transcription

**Moderator (M): *Introduction to session (pre-recording)***

**M: I am going to show my screen over here and I am going to give you mouse control again and then I will get rid of this thing that's in our way. So to get us started, can you tell me which branch of the armed services you served in?**

Participant 5 (P5): Is this supposed to be accurate or not accurate?

**M: Is this supposed to be accurate? if you're willing to tell me which branch you served in accurately, that's fine with me.**

P5: Ok, because I'm also retired from the US public health service and that's not part of the military, that's part of the uniformed services. But I was also in the Army. 

**M: You were also in the Army. Ok, great. And, have you heard anything about this new Veteran Identification Card?**

P5: No. 

**M: No. Ok, great. Excellent, so, to start, I'd like you to take a look at the page that's in front of you right now and go ahead and read through it. Take as much time as you would normally take if I weren't here and if you have...let me know when you're ready to chat.**

P5: Ok. Hang on, I’ve got to move it now. You know I have a real hard time moving my screen down. What is your problem? My problem is I can't move it down. All I see is...will my Veteran ID card replace my other IDs and are there any other forms that I can use instead of a Veteran ID card to get discounts at businesses. Is there anything else at the bottom? I should move my...

**M: Yes. You can hopefully use the scroll bar and let me know if you have difficulties doing that.**

P5: Ok. Hang on, I also have...Ok. 

*Reads content aloud, at whisper**

P5: Ok. Let's see. So the bottom...ok. Here, I see it. I'm getting this...getting the hang of it. It's just...

**M: Yeah, it's just a little bit wonky with the prototype. I know sometimes it doesn't interact with it the way you would expect it to. So...**

P5: Ok, hang on. 

*Reads content aloud, at whisper*

P5: Ok, so you want feedback on what you think that is. 

**M: Yeah, if you could tell me first off what stuck out to you as being the most important on this page?**

P5: Well. You've identified as a veteran and you don't always have to carry your DD-214. And there's some benefits you may get some discounts. 

**M: Great, and did you find anything on this page confusing or do you have any questions after reading this content?**

P5: Will it replace my other military ID cards? Are you talking about a retiree card? I don't know...I don't know what you mean by will my Veteran ID card replace my military ID card? The only thing I will know is that people who are on active duty and retire that they have an ID card or if they're dependents, well they wouldn’t have a Veterans ID card. 

**M: Right, so if you were trying to figure out what that question meant, what might you do on this page?**

P5: Ok. I would probably set...Wait, so I'm on. Hang on because somebody keeps...

*Talks to someone in the background*

P5: Ok, let me see what would I say. 

**M: Does the page look like it has anything to interact with to find out the answer to that question is?**

P5: Well, there's a plus. Is that what...?

**M: Yeah, go ahead and click it.**

P5: Oh, ok. With the plus. Yeah, ok. 

**M: So does that answer the question that you had there?**

P5: Yeah. Ok, you might want to... If you're going to use this, I would suggest that you tell somebody. If you have any questions, click the plus link and you can close it with the minus link. 

**M: This is where the prototype piece comes in as a little bit wonky. It may not interact the way you'd expect, but that would normally close that, yeah. Ok, so that's great feedback. You'd want to know that clicking on the plus or the minus would give you the answers to those questions**

P5: Yeah. 

**M: Ok. And so if you were going to apply for the Veteran ID Card after looking at the content on this page, what would be your next step?**

P5: If I were going to apply, I would do it online. It seems like this is the easiest that I could do it. And I could get it...

**M: Is there anywhere to do that from here?**

P5: Yeah, I would do it online, if I knew it was secure. 

**M: Yep.**

P5: And I would...

**M: Ok, and how would you know that?**

P5: I would look in the what do you call it? The top. And I could see the https:// And it would have to be something like "veteranidcard.gov".

**M: So if it was on a .gov website, with the word secure, and the https that would make you feel secure about applying online?**

P5: Right because what you see sometimes could be from anybody.

**M: Sure, sure that makes sense. Do you see a way that you could start the application from this page?**

P5: Yes. 

**M: Ok, why don't you go ahead and click on that.**

P5: Because I saw that and I'd go what is that word "VIC" and then I see that it's not VIC, it's the Veterans ID Card. I think that's really strange. I wouldn’t use that acronym unless you say how do I get a veteran ID card and then before the question mark you'd put VIC. But I think it's vetter that you put apply for your veterans ID card, don't put wic. 

**M: That makes a lot of sense. Sure. So pull the acronym out of that button.**

P5: Are you talking about WIC? Really? *laughs*

**M: Yeah, that's the women and children program. *Laughs***

P5: I know what WIC is. 

**M: *Laughs* Different, different things. So why don't you go ahead and click on that green button.**

P5: Click on the green button? Ok. 

**M: Ok, so this took us to a new page and again I'd like you to do what you did before.**

P5: There was some stuff that I didn't really look at the bottom. Am I supposed to read the bottom first?

**M: You can go ahead and do that on this page. Go ahead and read through the content on this page that you see here.**

P5: Ok, because it did say that. I saw that earlier. I have real hard time with this crazy mouse. Ok that's...that's a repeat. 

*Reads content silently

P5: Ok....Ok. I'm not real sure. In the blue it says do I have to sign into veterans.gov to apply for veterans ID card? That's like...Aren't you going to give me a link?

**M: Do you want a link? What would you be looking for? What kind of link?**

P5: Get more information about signing into. I would see what that says. Get more information about signing in to it. And I would hit that because I’d know that it has more information. 

**M: Ok, so you would want more information about signing in. What additional information would you want to know before you decide whether to sign in or not? **

P5: You know, what is the benefit? You know, some of these they say you get a AAA card and you get all these wonderful discounts, but what if I never use these places, I never go to these places. You know? So (inaudible) a whole bunch of stuff may not be useful or I may not find helpful because I wouldn’t access those businesses. Ok. And I wouldn't... take out that word "WIC". I know it takes longer. Put it in parenthesis Veterans ID Card parenthesis WIC because...

**M: Ok, that's great feedback.**

P5: Yeah, because I keep seeing that. I was like ok?

**M: Ok, so based on that question above about whether you would sign in or not, you said you would want more information about what the signing in does to help you or what the benefit is of signing in?**

P5: That's right. why would I want to do it and get another card? I mean, people got driver’s license, they've got passports, they've got credit cards, they've got all kinds of cards. It's just one more thing you might want to, you know, you have to carry in your wallet. 

**M: Right, it could be just as, one more thing or it might be a useful replacement for something else that you don't have to carry. It depends. It depends on your perspective I'm sure.**

P5: Yeah, it's like do I want to carry a Costco card or do I want to carry a Costco credit card? I don’t need a Costco card and a Costco credit card. That's way too much. Then I've got 2 cards in my wallet. 

**M: Sure, that makes sense. So, given your choice about applying for this identification card, logging in or logging gout. Or doing it as a logged in user or a logged out user, do you have a sense of which way you might prefer to do it?**

P5: If it was me, I would do it online and...And you'd probably have to. Lots of times it's like don't give me one more. Let's use my email, and let's use a password. And hopefully I remember where I put my email because what I do is, I mean I remember where I put my password. The only way I remember what my passwords are. I get a little index card and I write it down because if I change my password, I've got to know that I've changed it so I put the date on it because otherwise I won't know what the password is. And you got to make it real clear how to log out. 

**M: Ok.**

P5: Some things you log in and it's like, ok, where's the log out?

**M: So I'm hearing you say that you wouldn’t necessarily want to have another thing you'd have to log in to or another service that you'd have to log into. Did I interpret that correctly?**

P5: Ok. I would want to know what is my benefit? Why do I want to get this veterans ID card in the first place? You know because it's on your, it could be on your driver’s license. And I didn't chose to put it on my driver’s license because in California you have to pay and I was like this is ridiculous.

**M: Ah, ok.**

P5: And sometimes depending on your car license and you know there are people that are anti-military. you better not have that on your car license. Somebody go ram into your car. Break into your car. 

**M: Got it. Did you see anything on this page that would help you understand what the Veteran ID card might do for you?**

P5: Yeah, it just acts as that you don’t always...what my understanding is that it's to make your life a little easier but to me it's another card. 

**M: Ok.**

P5: If you ask me, do I want to get a VIC? The answer is no.

**M: Ok, so you wouldn’t want to get one at this point.**

P5: No. You know they talk about discounts. If you're going to give me a 10% discount, I can wait until there's a sale. 

**M: *Laughs* Got it, ok. Ok, so for the purposes of today's test, we're going to do a fake application and I will any feedback that you have on how easy or hard it is to do different pieces of the application I can use to adjust it so if you could go ahead and click on that blue button, that would be great.**

P5: Yep, ok. 

**M: Go ahead and click on any one of those squares. First name, last name. And it will fill in that data. And so, do you have any questions about why we would ask some of the information on this page?**

P5: Nope, but you know that gender thing? They're having problems with that. *Chuckles*

**M: So do you...problems in what sense?**

P5: Well, you know they're talking about transgender people. You know in the military usually you get at one point in time you have to tell them whether you're male or female. 

**M: Right, right.**

P5: Ok, so we're on to the service. And how many services would you list?

**M: Well, what, how many services would you expect?**

P5: Would you put in NOAA? Because NOAA is..

**M: NOAA? **

P5: Do you know what NOAA is?

**M: What?**

P5: Part of the uniformed services is the commission corps. National Oceanography Atmosphere Administration. The people that tell you... They've got a bunch of people...Does NOAA have one? Yeah NOAA does and also the US public health service has these commission corps people who are part of the uniformed service. They aren't military, but they are part of the uniformed services. 

**M: My understanding is that this is for military and military reserves. So...**

P5: So reserves, right. But you would eliminate people, like if I tell you, I'm a public health service person? I wouldn't get a Veterans ID Card?

**M: According to what the VA regulations on this piece are that for now, this ID card is available to members of the armed forces, so Navy, Army, Air Force, Marines, Coast Guards.**

P5: Well, Coast Guards aren't part of the military.

**M: That is one of the branches that is eligible for this card.**
