Moderator Intro (pre-recording)

Warm-up Questions:

P6: BOS Army reserves, retired or sep. in 1985 I believe…..I was wrong it was 1975

**M: Have you heard anything about the new Vet ID card?**

P6: only that its a possibility it will come along

(How to get a Veteran ID card page)

P6: Can I ask questions as I see something I'm interested in?

**M: sure**

P6: A digital copy of my dd-214, I have only a paper copy right now

**M: so what would you do if you need to have that on your computer**

P6: I could probably scan it, if I'm smart enough I could probably scan it

**M: Is that something that you think you would be able to do?**

P6: I could do that, once its scanned in the computer thats acceptable as far as a digital doc? Okay, and what do you do with a color photo of myself, is that also scanned in?

**M: what would you expect it to be?**

P6: well since I'm trying to do this online, I'm figuring that you want to have all  this in my computer before I try to apply for the id card. So I'm assuming correctly, so now we are looking at the description of the photo here…..(pause for reading) so we are looking at passport type photos in color?

**M: …..confirming you're still reading?**

P6: Im down to verifying identity. Idk what a premium ds logon account is

**M: So would it be helpful of it to explain what that is?**

P6: i think so, its been an awful long time since I've used government jargon or army jargon so I don't know whether that is a common type of place you would log on but it would be clear if it was explained. From what I'm seeing here if i go to vets.gov. or I'l go the other way  if i go to id.me will I get to vet.gov or id.me will get to vets.gov

**M: so for the purpose of this application the application exists on vets.gov as Ive mentioned what you are looking at is a prototype so the top is sort of fake url. So right now you are imagining you are looking at a page on vets.gov**

P6: and id.me will be accessible from this vets.gov site or url?

**M: well we will explore that once we get further into the application. so based on what you saw on this page what stuck out to you as being the most important?**

P6: there is a  sequence of events that has to happen here and making it very clear what has to happen here, you have a list of SSNs dd-214, and a collor photo, I goig to have to sit here and be ready to go once i want to apply for this card. taht was pretty clear to me and then once i have those things in hand and i applying to the VIC, (scroll down a little farther). Do i need to sign into vets.gov to apply for that Veteran ID card? you're trying to aim me in that direction obviously

**M: yup**

P6 audio disconnects...... I was in the process of reading about applying for the VIC, do I need to sign up to apply for the Veteran ID card and you say no and at that point you describe how to do it going through vets.gov, is there any reason you would want to put anything else other than no in the desctiption of waht other choices i have?

**M: what do you mean by thatP6: if i need to make a applying easier and help you to get a decision faster. its very obvious what you're saying you're leading me on to how do you go ahead and do it thru vets.gov and I'll just keep on going from here: ok.so based on this page what would your next step to get into the application?**

p6: i remember reading at the bottom, its says learn more about signing in to vets.gov and  ithink i would need to do that b/c the desciption talks about id.me and since id.me doesnt really mean anything to me other than the little description youve given here. i guess i would probably now click on learn more about signing into vets.gov. can i do that or is that beyond us?

**M:thats the beyond the protoype for now. is there another way you could see how to get into this application? or rather did you happen to notice the green button up above?**

p6: oh...um i saw it earlier but i went passed it, its still on the top of my screen 

**M: is that something you might click?**

p6: Im not sure if i would click, just...when i came by it the first time around I noticed it  but i noticed it was more written after it, so i through i should not click on that now b/c it was more info following it, like do i need to sign in. i think is that were the last thing on the screen other than the little blue box that said whatever it just said,  learn more about signing in at the bottom. I think if i had a choice between apply or learn more aware of the fact that i can apply now and if i were not anxious to apply now i would at least be able to click on learn more. so i would have a choice of one over the other, i think the apply for your VIC needs to be one of my last choices

**M: so you would want that at the bottom of the page as oppose to having content after it?**

P6: yes i think so, its confusing to me that I'm not making a choice after i have digested all the info thats on the screen, its to far up in the info

**M: again i would want you to have a look at the content on this page and see what sticks out to you?**

P6: okay,  the one thnig that sticks out to me is the fitst thing on the list is a current color photo of yuorsefl and then you describe in the next paragraph all about the photo and the last being that its a jpeg, png. bmt or ciss style format. Im wondering whether I heard digital color photo of yourself wolud be better b/c i could have a color of myself and think im ready to go and i read the next paragraph and realize its not digital. So ive heard digtal color photo of yourself and then following standards listed afterwards would  i think better. Okay let me keep reading. i dont have either the ds logon or id.me accounts will every other Vet thats  interested have something like that?

**M: not necessarily (pause to allow for reading)  based on what youre seeing here is this helping you understand what you would need to do to get an account**

P6: yes it much clearer now, now im getting it, so since i just said i didnt have a ds logon, im seeing now that  i can go to the idme and with a smart phone and a SSN and proof of identity that i can actually go into idme, ive gotten just about to the bottom of that paragraph, just give me a sec

**M:ok**

P6: im assuming idme is a secure site from what youre saying and entering you SSN on that site isnt going to be outed to anybody

**M:right does the text help you feel more secure?**

P6: yes, yes it did, it was fine. the next block says sign in or create an account, If had all the info handy, i could click on sign in or create an account?

**M: you could have, for the purpose of tonight's session we're going to do it in a logged out state but not that you had a chance to read that section i would be curious to hear from you whether you prefer to fill out the application logged out or logged in?**

P6: I dont know what that means if iwere in the..if i already sent in to the idme and had all this information available would i then be in a logged in mode? or would i be just not there yet? because i dont have a ds logon account. all i see if the idme so how do i get to the next step?

**M: how do you think you would get to the next step?**

P6: well if i click on sign in or create an account, i would do that if i had all these 3 things in front of me. well i guess i do have all 3 things, i have a smart phone someplace here, i know my SSN and i have my drivers license so i guess for those 3 things i could click on sign in or create and account, right now i could do that?

**M: you could, that is an enabled functionality tonight because we don't want to make you upload any personal identifiable info but in theory if you click on that that would enable you to create an account**

P6: okay, so not doing that and we're not creating a real account. (reading) to get more info about signing into vets.gov. If i had gone into id.me would i have gotten to vets.gov automatically at the end of identification ten minutes?

**M: coming up from that process you would be landed right back in this spot right now, which is again a pretend page on vets.gov. 

P6:Am i actually there right now, I'm actually in vets..gov right now?

**M: theoretically yeah**

P6: okay, Im reading the blue box down here give me just a minute. I am at point where im at number 3... apply, complete this VIC application,after submtting the fomr you will get a confirmation in wihch you can print this for your records. Am i sorta pretending ive gone thru the id.me process and im back to this uh sign in or create an account button?

**M: we can pretend that, my question to you is youve read this and did you notice that you have an option for whether ot complete this applicaation thru by logging into id.me or completing it without doing that?**

P6: I see the blue highlighted area umm......I'm reading it but the problem I'm  having, the last line says. 'the fastest way to get your application processed is to sign into your ds logon or id.me accounts and i don't see where i can...... well from this point on there's no point where i can push a button and oh okay then I'll sign in via my ds logon or I'll sign in via my id.me account above that in a blue box it says 'sign in or create an account' I was not quite sure in the process of going past that...if i came down to the sign in create an account box and i had clicked on it and i had done all the things idme asked me to do at the of that ten minutes i cam back to this screen to see the next line which says do I have to sign into vets.gov or reply to apply to for an ID card, its like okay am i..have i missed something, i thought i would be getting vets.gov from idme directly and I'm wondering why i have to click on something else again now having to go into idme and come back out of idme. do i have to click on something new to get into vets.gov and complete this application which is what number 3 says, this apply thing

**M: so it sounds to me like, it might be helpful if you saw that info about whether or not to sign in before you made the decision that might be helpfulP6: the line says sign in or create an account, idk whether that means I'm signing in to create an account on id.me or on vets.govM: it would be on id.me**

P6: okay id.me, it should say sign in or create an account on id.me would be better

**M:  if you had ds logon it would allow you to sign on using that instead, you can sign in using either thing**

P6: well if i had a box that says sign in or create and account with idme or a box that says sign in to vets.gov what would signing into one or the other do for me? i know through id.me Im going to go thru the smart phone, SSN, proof of identity, if i click on that one,  if i click into vets.gov would that take me..is that something i should be doing after i click into id.me

**M: so you don't log into vets.gov using a vets.gov account, there are a couple of ways to do that one is id.me, one is ds logon, if you don't have a ds logon account you can use id.me**

P6: so after i log into idme they accepted for whom i am at the end of that session on idme, it would take me back to this page, but it would be taking me on the next steps. I'm hoping. 

**M: So why don't you go ahead and scroll down a little bit more**

P6: okay, Reapply for this vic application.  After submitting the form, you'll get a confirmation message. You can print this for your records. I'm assuming we had to get through the previous things we discussed in order to get to that point. Let me just keep reading. Okay, so this is a decision. This is a description that I'm still reading here that says, Okay, the next thing you would do is to be applied and it be reviewed and there will be a decision and the car would be coming in and 60 days. That's the, that's the order of events that are going to happen. And the vic application at the bottom. Now, I haven't already started that by going to idme.

**M: So what you're looking at right here is an overview of the application process by going to idme you've completed step two.**

P6:.Okay, so, I think that where it says three applied a complete this VIC application, after submitting the form, you'll get a confirmation message. If I'm going to be able to actually start this application now from this site to start the VIC thing, I think it belongs farther up. Let me just back up just a second and give you an overall thought about this thing. If what I'm looking here is a one, two, three, four, five bullets as to how I'm going to get this identification card, then we've got this mixed in with the information on how you go about doing it are things that confused me because they are actually push buttons that start this whole application to happen. And what I'm thinking is if you were to start this page out with, here's what you would do, steps one through five to get an ID card all the way through, including, do you apply and the VA reviews it and they're going to make a decision on it will be the last three bullet points. And at that point you'll start b/c you said I'd like to do this, then you press start VIC application button that follow these five bullet points as I'm seeing a blue, you know, start the VIC application process here. If by thenbeing that we had all the information about id.me and logging on, descriptions of what I'm going to need in a push button mode at that point I could make it start to happen. I think I'd like that better than having the ability in the middle of these bullet points to be clicking on something like sign in or create an account, is that in my number two bullet points? To me, that all happened after I have read the five bullet points as to what I have to do in order to get this. And number two is, if you don't have a ds logon account will help you verify it, blah, blah blah. With it, for that whole thing, it gets a little bit complicated for me. I think if you were to go down the bullet points and say, here's the five steps that you're going to take in order to get this card and just read through this and you'll understand what you've got to do. You can get all your information prepared and then if you click on the bottom and say, I'd like to go ahead and, and go through the order of the steps that are necessary to get this card, whether it's creating an account or go to Id.me and and upload my information, my identification and all that, and ultimately get to complete the form, which is what it says to do on number three. I think it would be clear if I was going to take a whole different step after reading the instructions and the steps that follow the instructions and say, Ok, you really want to go ahead and do this push this button here.

**M: Okay, so. If that was ordered in that way and you click on, start the application again. You have the option of completing this application without signing into anything. Or you can complete the application by signing in to Id me. Would you still want to complete the application by signing in to id.me?**

P6: You were making it so simpler in a way going on to it me what you might, um, what you might want to say is, Ok, if you start this application manually here, um, it's going to take an hour or it's going to take half an hour. If you go in through it me, it could take five or 10 minutes. Is that true? I mean, is that what you're trying to say? 

**M: Potentially or that on the other end, b/c you've already done the it major verification, the rest of the application processes more quickly. Uh, if you imagine if you fill out your taxes by paper and you mailed them in versus filling out your taxes using like turbo tax or h&r block or one of those things, sometimes you get your refunds faster by doing it online, by using all the verification that those tech softwares used a because you don't have to, they don't have to, you know, line by line, check all of the stuff that you've done that's already done for you by the time you submit the application. So if you imagine it's a little bit like that, we'll check things for you and they can verify, you know, they can help us verify that you are who you say you are and that you are a veteran. And so kind of some of those things so that your application kind of goes on the fast track. Whereas if you do it without logging in, your application would be take longer because someone on the back end at the VA would have to look through all the things that you provided to make sure that you meet all the qualification**

P6: Oh thats good to know, thats really good to know....Let me just read the blue box one more time, so do i have to sign up with vets.gov for a Veteran ID card? Ok, You're making it clear at that point that there's two ways of doing this. One is, as you say the online application, the other one is not clear that I'm going to be filling out paperwork from now and forever and that it not going to take the veterans administration a long time to read through what I had filled in manually. I think if you are telling me that I'm going to have to fill out a 20 page application manually and send in and have somebody manually read it, it makes it a lot more imperative that I do this online. It's going to goose me long to do it online. It's clear to me that as you say, the paper tax form takes forever versus the online version. You'll have your refund in two weeks. 

**M: Right. This whole thing is online, it's just a question of whether you sign in or not. The manual paper application example that I gave was just to sort of give you an, an idea of how it would work. So both would online its just one is fast tracked and one is not.**

P6: Ok, I get it. So every top of every page I got to fill in my name and my social security number and my  whatever else versus filling it in one for idme and it punches it in every place that needs to be

**M: Something like that. I'll have you click start the VIC application. I'm going to have you click on that button, so you're looking at the first page of the application on the. Go ahead and click in the box, but when you have the boxes there, some fake data. I'm going to have you go ahead and look what's on this page and let me know if you have any questions about the different fields that you see here 

scroll down page

**now you're on page two of the application and you can just click in. Do you have any questions about why we would ask you any of the information we just asked you?**

P6: No, I can see a pretty stocked information you've got here. I suppose part of it, your name and service and so forth and date of birth would be part of an ID look up and a lot of the other things like address and telephone number and a email could change over time and it wouldn't be a good thing for identifying me. 

**M: Right. The other thing I wanted to ask you, so in a previous page you saw a branch of service. You had mentioned earlier that you were in the army reserves. Would you want that branch of service to say Army or army?P6: army would be fine**

click continue..

**M: And what we've come to now is a, this is the demo site part of the application. So based on what you read there, how easy or hard would it be for you to get a photo taken that meets those requirements?**

P6: I would be able to get something done like that at the local drugstore. Walgreen's or whatever would be with passport photo if I don't already have one. Think it has to be something relatively new. It doesn't say anything about how old or new this photograph has to be.

**M: What would you expect?

P6: Well, I expected it to be within the last year, a couple of years or something like that. I guess for example if I had some passport photos that had been done for passports that I applied for within the last couple of years, I would try and use that photo, a 10 year old photo I probably would get another one, but I know what you're talking about. I can get one and I know what it looks like and your examples are fine

**M: Do you think you could take one yourself that met those requirements or get one easily?**

P6: I could get a take it easier at Walgreens or something like that because they have the white background, if I tried to shoot it myself, I might end up with something in the background that didn't meet the requirements. I would go to the store if I didn't have already have a photo, a recent photo that met the requirements. scroll down...

**M: I would like you to follow the instructions there, to upload a photo. What we're going to be interacting with is my desktop, not yours.**

P6: So I'm going to click on upload your photo?

**M: yes, and what I want you to do is click on the one that says Lauren VIC and then go ahead and open that.** 

P6: ok

**M: And I want you to use the controls available to you or use the tool to make it match the requirements that you've saw you read above.** 

P6: I have one comment about your tools. That is when you say when you click on the move up, the photo moves down. When you push the move down, the photo moves up. The move left it moves left, the move right it moves right. So the up and down scrolls are backwards now on the next smaller. I had been pushing the blue button left and right and I was not getting it quite the way I wanted to get it. Now I tried to move smaller button and that works better. 

**M: ok**

P6: Ok. I have moved this photo as far down as it will go. So I am right at the top of your head and Im I'm cropping right at the top of your hair and I would like to take some of the necklace out, so Im going to try again.......Ok, I've got what I want.

**M: ok, so what would you do next**

P6: Im going to press Im done

**M: So, on a scale of from a one to five where one is very difficult and five is very easy, how was this tool to use**

P6: about a four, it wasn't bad at all. 

**: Ok. And how confident do you feel that you could use this tool again on your own using your own photo?**

P6: As long as I can get my photo into that block, which is saying something, if I could get it into that block, I'm quite sure how to do what I just did with your photo. Not a problem. 

**M: Ok and do you have any other questions about this photo tool?** 

P6: No, it looks good other than the up and down being runway around

**M: got it so what would you next step be?**

P6: press continue...no....yeah

**M: so that's going to take you to this page. And again I'm not gonna have you upload your own document today for personally identifiable information reasons, but do you have any questions about why we would ask you for your dd-214?** 

P6:I have no questions. I know that, you told me in the past that the dd-214, is required to get into a veteran's hospitals and to make appointments with and so forth. So I know that it's the important document you have to have. 

**M: Ok, So you talked a little bit earlier that you might be able to scan yours in. Do you see a way that you would be able to upload your dd-214 on this page?**

 P6: I see the block that says upload your dd-214. Yes. If I had it in digital form already, I'm assuming that, that I could press on that button and things would start to happen. 

**M: Yup, so why don't you go ahead and press on that button now....and voila! for the purposes of the demo, we, we stimulated that for you but this is what it would look like once you were done. Ah. So what would you do next?**

P6: I press the upload button in below it now is box it says as Smith dd-214 pdf. I guess that box would contain the file and I guess assuming that it's my file and everything that we're supposed to do something with it, guess Id 'press the upload your dd-214 button again or continue..I think I'm confused. Im looking at upload and and Im looking at continue. Unless I screwed up the upload, I wouldn't want to hit the upload your dd-214 again but it shouldn't be there especially if I just uploaded it.

**M: So you would want that button to disappear or gray out or something like that**

P6: Yeah, I mean now in the box I see that we've got the file, except if that's all you have to do is get that dd-214 into that box and then I would say the next thing you want to see is continue

**M: so what do you think you could do on this page**

P6: Well it looks like I'm giving you all the information necessary for sending me an ID card. You've got my dd-214, you've got my picture. You probably need some other form of identification, don't you?

**M: You may not, looking at this page right now, how would you interact with this page, pretending that we're looking at your information?** 

P6: OK. We're at review of application portion of it now?

**M: mhm**

P6: at this point, I would click on the plus sign first on the information and the veteran in the military and the document upload to see that it all looks like it's there. Do I press the plus sign? 

**M: yep go ahead**

P6: So now I can read all info thats going in

**M: And if you saw anything that looked wrong, he made a typo or anything like that. How would you fix it?**

P6: well for example, if it's the wrong photo I suppose there's not much I can do except go back a step. But, I can see how if the photos  didn't fit I can go back to editing it and if the DD-214 that I set up was the wrong one or didn't get uploaded properly I suppose you go into the edit the dd214 and see that file too?

**M:mhm**

P6: I assume you can see both of them. The only other question I have up here is that after the postal code there's an edit. At the beginning of this review, there is the word veteran information and then after that little blue box that says edit, I don't want to see that edit box there.

**M: Why don't you want to see it?**

P6: I would just want to review the information and when I get to the bottom of the information be able to edit it at the end

**M: ok**

P6: And same thing with contact information. I need to see it before I can decide to edit it or not. So take the edit out of there and move it to the bottom. I'm thinking that you don't have to have two edits around starting with country and ending with postal code. If you just want to do the address including the email address and phone number and all that just once. And that's all we need.

**M: Ok, any other questions about this page?**

P6: It looks good to me. I think it's fine. Continue?

**M: Yep, go ahead and look at the content on this page and let me know if you have any questions or concerns as you're looking through it**

P6: The line that says here are some other forms of it you can use. You get the same discounts while you wait. After the word wait I think you should be saying while you're waiting to receive the ID card. I'm sitting here waiting for the screen to change. That's not the kind of wait you're talking about. So the discounts that you were talking about, would a veteran normally understand what this card is going to get him before he applies for it? 

**M: Did you see any information earlier in this application that gave you the answer to that question?**

P6: I thought earlier on there was some mention of being able to go into a store or something like that would offer discounts. And I guess, unless at some point you want to print out what the specifically this card is going to do for you and I missed it and didn't see all of that or didn't remember it. It might someplace say with this ID card you will be eligible for ABC and D, if it wasn't before I'd like to see it again

**M: so you would like to like to see the info again as a reminder of what you could use the card for?**

P6: I think so,  then you say, while you're waiting for this card to arrive that you can use the veteran's health identification card, etc to get these discounts that we just talked about. Reading the description of receiving being eligible for this card was way at the beginning someplace, I believe. And it did say you had to have an honorable discharge at that time

**M: yup**

P6: It didn't say, um, it didn't say anything about if you didn't have an honorable discharge, but here I see there's a line that says find out how to apply for discharge upgrade. I think if somebody were reading this from the top and you had to have an honorable discharge and it said, or be upgraded to a honorable discharge, or be upgradeable and at that point, if there is information that you can, that a Vet can use to upgrade to a discharge that would be applicable for this veteran's ID card, that maybe someplace around the beginning there having this line about how to apply for a discharge upgrade might appear earlier in this document.

**M: Ok, so it would be helpful to have this upfrontP6: Yeah. In other words, I, I'm not gonna I'm not even going to weigh in on this thing. If I read the first line says I have to have an honorable discharge if I don't have one. I would just decide and say I don't qualify. So having a little box at the top it says, other than honorable apply for upgrade press here and maybe that would allow the rest of the section eighters to at least be able to continue with this thing knowing that they might be able to upgrade themselvesM: Is there anything else on this page that you have any questions or feedback on?**

P6: The line afterwards that says if you uploaded a copy of your dd-214, we can use it to review your application to verify you were honorably discharged.  Where it looks to me as if that line doesn't belong there because we've already uploaded the DD214. So it's not an if situation, its a fait of accompli right now. Otherwise we might just say if you want to say either you or we can review your app with your dd214 to verify you were honorably discharged. I don't know how you want to say that, especially if you uploaded because you've already done that. 

**M: It seems thats a little bit out of order. P6: Lets see,  print page for your records. Veterans ID card, claim confirmation number and date received and need help. Is there any art of this application form that should be printed? In other words, instead of reading it live off of the screen, if somebody wanted to print this whole thing and read it on their couch and get an idea of what was really required to get this ID cards before actually going online. Could there be some sort of a print form type of button, I don't know.M: You would want to print it before you got started?**

P6: with the idea being that I would understand what the instructions were before I was sitting here in front of my computer wondering what am I, what do I have to have in order to press the continue button. What do I have to have in order to do the next thing was required of me,  I've already read it or read it over yesterday or the day before. And I know I got to have that photo and I know I've got to have the dd-214. I know I've got to have whatever identification things you are asking for here before I even get on this site. Now I'll know that I need to have it, so may I have a printable version of this thing someplace along the line, wouldn't hurt me. I was not really prepared to have everything in place when I first saw it on the screen.

**M: So you would want to be able to print it beforehand. You saw two screens at the beginning, the introduction screen and the one that talks you through the different steps. At what point would you want to be able to print that?**

P6: I think the introduction screen, I don't remember what it said now, the introduction screen had a bullet point thing where this is the sequence of events we're going to go through and this is what you're going to need to have, which you may have had. And I just don't remember that far back. If that's all I have, if it tells me everything I'm going to need to have and I can just print that, that would be fine. And then once I've got it, I go on to the next part of the program which is the second screen which says okay, we're going to go through the application portion now.

**M: Ok that makes sense**

P6: Anything further?

**M: Would you print this page? So you finished the application, maybe it gives you this blue box of information, like a confirmation number and such like that. Would you print that at all?** 

P6: I would, but I have to tell you the typing that says please print this page for your records needs to be front and center bolded out in a box. It needs to be in a box that I know and I can see. Because I went right by it, I didn't see it the first time by.

**M: Ok**

P6: If you press on a button, will it automatically print?

**M: Potentially or would you want a button or just use those**

P6: if you had a little box that said print, well wait a second. If you were to put a print button inside that blue square so veterans ID card, claim for confirmation number date received, and then at the bottom of that box you had a little print this information button and you push on that button and hope that little box printed out for you. That'd be great. 

**M: Alright that was the last page of the application, I just have a couple of closing questions for you. Did anything surprise you about this application?** 

P6: the only surprise is that I didn't understand all the IDme vs VIC vs the vets.gov sites that I was going to be dealing with here. Mostly because Im not that 21st century but as far as the clarity of what its saying it seem to be, you know once I figured out what was asking for it was perfectly clear the way it was written out. 

**M: Anything frustrating about the application?**

P6: well the things that I mentioned about putting things in different places was a  little confusing to find an extra click here for the ID card type of thing, right in the middle of what you thought was just the description of the procedure to follow, it was a little bit confusing but we've talked about that earlier though.

**M:Anything in addition to what we talked about?**

P6: I don't think so, I think its pretty good

**M: After seeing the different pieces of the application today, how long do you think it would take you to complete it on your own?**

P6:I'm going to guess if I had everything sitting in front of me and  I've got the online picture and the online dd-214 I'm thinking 15, 20 minutes, something like that. Most of it would be reading. One of the things that I will mention to you is that the screen that I'm reading only takes up about half the screen on my computer right now. And I'm just assuming that when you're doing this live that the box that I'm reading into covers the whole screen. 

**M: Potentially, depends on what device you're using**

P6: Well then I'll make this comment that on the screen that I'm on  I can read it but the font is about as small as I want to ever have it. If you went a little larger on the black print, the font size, one or two fonts sizes would probably make it easier for the older vets to read it on the screen.

**M: How long would you expect it would take from when you submitted the application to actually getting the veteran ID card?**

P6: Well is sort of implied if I remember like 60 days or something like that was a possibility. It sounds to me what sticks in my mind is it's going to take two months

**M: If you had to describe the process of applying for a veteran card to a friend, what would you tell them?**

P6: Given you've got all the information upfront that you need to have going in and doing it from here, its not that difficult. I guess if I could do it, most people can. 

**M: Very good. Do you have any other feedback or questions for me based on what you saw today?** 

P6: I don't think so. Excellent. 

Closing remarks
