# Military info data sync with AE Profile, VA Profile, and VADIR

12/6/2023

**Attendees:** Adam Whitlock, Alex Parker, Rachel Fulton, Jayaram Krishnappa, Liz Lantz, Roger Newman, Pam Drouin, Daniel Ramona, Michael Richard, Samara Strauss, Tom Harrison, Tavis Cahill, Catherine Woodhouse, Chang Zeng

## Overall questions
#### How can we turn the  `DoD provided a value not in the reference table` responses into something meaningful for Veterans?
We’re seeing this value throughout the prod datasets we pulled for:
* Occupations
  * serviceSpecificOccupationCode / serviceSpecificOccupationText
  * We're looking at this because of a question asking Veterans if they were exposed to a military occupational speciality related toxin on the 526.
  * **Answer:** we have a reference table provided by DoD because these are their values. For occupation codes, there’s a DoD provided code (high-level, relatively reliable) and then a service provided (more specific). For service provided value, about 70% of the time, the value they gave us is not in the lookup table. 
    * They’re getting ready to deploy in the next 2 weeks, a fix for the occupation codes. 
    * Suggestion: look at it again after the deployment is complete
* Deployments
  * deploymentProjectText
    - **Answer from Daniel in advance of meeting:** almost every deployment is tagged with 9GF (Overseas Contingency Operation) or `NULL`, so this is not a useful code.
  * `deploymentCountryText` and `deploymentLocationBodyOfWaterText`
    * **Answer:** deployment location is specific to a person. Just deployed a major shift on that which made it much more reliable. Deployment location information is actually derived by some kind of coordination (usually GPS coordinates. Sometimes it’s just a country). The information varies widely based on many factors. 
      * VA Profile will only give you country right now
      * There is currently a high priority SR (request) where they are analyzing how to provide more detailed information about geolocation code/GPS coordination and pushing that kind of information to VA Profile

* Unit Assignments
  * militaryUnitCode / militaryUnitText
  * The 526 form asks for the “current or last name and address of unit” as well as the phone number. We're trying to surface something useful to help Veterans answer this question.
  * **Answer:** Units has the same issues except we need more help from DoD on that. We have talked to DoD about it but there is no formal SR (request) into DoD to change the way that’s done. Right now it’s just status quo. We continue to degrade as they generate and change units. The codes work differently.  
    * There’s some unit location information that is totally separate, which is important for exposure data. This is separate from deployment location. Deployment location is specific to a person. There’s a lot of correlation but there’s lots of situations
    * We’d need to work through business/stakeholder requirements if we wanted to make improvements to this

#### Why would some datasets be missing complete sections?
One set of prod data we pulled had nothing for occupations, deployments, or unit assignments
- **Answer:** I’d have to look at more specific situations for that. The first is that we can only provide you with what the DoD gives us. There are several data quality issues with what we have for them. We’re missing millions of garden reserve application episodes. Sometimes, with Navy, this is the first time we’re ever getting deployment locations with the navy. We’re working through lots of different levels of information. PACT act really helped because now we’re legally obliged to have this kind of information to provide to the Veteran. 
  - There are a lot of service episodes missing for older veterans. Depending on when a person served it’s more like

#### What data point can we reference to know whether a period of service was “active duty”, “inactive reserves”, “active reserves” etc? 
- We’ve heard feedback from Veterans that this would be a helpful datapoint for a period of service in their profile.
- Active duty is specified in a few places (under militarySummary and militaryServiceHistory) – which field “wins” when choosing to display the duty status?
- In the unit assignments data, `personnelCategoryName` + `personnelCategoryCode` seem equivalent to `militaryUnitTypeCode` and `militaryUnitTypeText`. Why isn't `personnelCategoryName` part of the schema too?
- **Answer:** For that, you’d have to look at the GRAS episodes, which is a child. You might have to combine some things to get an indicator for that.  
  - There’s also an indicator for reserve activations
  - training activations wouldn’t show up here

#### Why do we see `BioRetrievalErrors` for `adminDecisions`, `adminEpisodes`, and `prisonerOfWars`?
- What would an example of that kind of data would look like?  
- Would `prisonerOfWars` be a yes/no? 
- What might `adminDecisions` or `adminEpisodes` be describing? I reviewed the VA Profile: Military Personal docs  (sensitive) but didn't see it defined there

## Section specific questions

### Unit assignments

#### What are the typical
#### What can you tell us about sequence numbers?
* These unit assignments have a sequence number, and each sequence number is repeated in the data twice. One for assigned and one for attached
* The sequence number does not seem to correspond to `effectiveDate` (which feels logical to me), so what does it correspond to?
* `assigned` and `attached` can have the same sequence number but vastly different effectiveDates , but the same lastUpdate value.  What does that mean?

#### What does `lastUpdate` correspond to? 
This value is "The date on which the assignment record was most recently updated." - is it possible that would NOT correspond to the end date of that unit relationship?

#### What can we surface about units to help Veterans answer the relevant question on the 526?

- The 526 form asks for the “current or last name and address of unit” as well as the phone number. 
- Based on Daniel's email, we know:
> Military Unit Assignments are the code and name of the unit, group, squadron, battalion, etc. to which a service member is assigned during a period of service.  There can be multiple assignments to a unit per service episode.  There are tens of thousands units defined in the VADIR lookup table, but they are all very military service specific.  The services send unit codes very frequently that are not in the VADIR lookup tables.



### Military occupation

#### Would we expose `dodOccupationText` or `serviceSpecificOccupationCode` in order for Veterans to answer the relevant 526 question correctly?
- The 526 claim form has one question about military occupation related to the PACT act: “Have you been exposed to any of the following?” And **MOS related toxin** is one of the options. 
- In an email, Daniel shared:
> For each period of service of a Servicemember, DoD provides occupations to which the Servicemember was assigned during that period of service.  There can be many occupation segments per period of service. Occupations can be their Duty assignment, a primary skill, and a secondary skill (usually all three).  For each, DoD provides a very high-level standardized code that can be considered a standardized (across all services) parent occupation (i.e. Pilot or Electric Power Technician).  In addition, each service (i.e. Army, Navy, Marines, Air Force, Space Force, and Coast Guard) have service-specific codes that go into much greater detail, but these codes are only relevant to the military service that reported the occupation. For example, 1021 = “Pilot, Helicopter”, 1031 = “Pilot, Search-Rescue”, 1041 = “Pilot, Transport”, etc.

#### What can you tell us about `serviceSegmentSequence` and `occupationSegmentSequence`? 
- In one prod record, it is the same for 23 entries.
* The `effectiveDate` is the same for `occupationSegmentSequence` even when they are different numbers.  They are different when they are the same numbers. 
* Some `occupationSegmentSequence` values are repeated twice. When this is the case,  one entry has`occupationTypeText: Primary` and the other has `occupationTypeText: Duty`. 
  * What does that mean? 
  * Are there other potential values?
* The sequence number does not seem to correspond to effectiveDate (which feels logical to me), so what does it correspond to?
* assigned and attached can have the same sequence number but vastly different effectiveDates , but the same lastUpdate value.  I don’t know how to make sense of that.

### Deployments
#### Do we know the significance of `deploymentLocationTerminationReasonText` or `deploymentLocationTerminationReason` to the claims process, or to Veterans?

## Next steps
AE Profile team will regroup and set up additional time with Daniel to talk through the rest of the questions.
