products/accredited-representative-facing/README.md, before:

_The nature of the content in this folder should conform to these [repository organizational guidelines](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/blob/master/platform/working-with-vsp/orientation/repo-guidelines.md#about-the-platform-products-and-teams-folders)_

# Accredited Representative Facing (ARF)

The Accredited Representative Facing (ARF) team is a part of the Accredited Reps Crew within the OCTO Benefits Portfolio at the Department of Veterans Affairs.

## Mission

We will create an accessible, modern, secure online system that Accredited Reps are comfortable using that will increase the use of digital forms and make a faster and smoother experience, improving Veterans' VA experience.

## Product Resources

### Minimum Viable Product (MVP)

Explore the specifics of the ARF MVP and its impact: [ARF Team MVP](/products/accredited-representative-facing/product-info/arf-minimum-viable-product.md).

### Roadmap

View our strategic roadmap for future developments and milestones: [ARF Team Roadmap](https://app.mural.co/t/departmentofveteransaffairs9999/m/departmentofveteransaffairs9999/1705012017021/1d76cf5fe7c9aab8ee495159f04a4e45853cdae8?sender=uc9e0a2b4a5929fc36a737045).

### Work in Progress (WIP)

To track our current projects and view our progress, visit the ARF Team's Zenhub Workspace: [ARF Team Zenhub](https://app.zenhub.com/workspaces/accredited-representative-facing-team-65453a97a9cc36069a2ad1d6/board).

### Documentation

Access our ongoing documentation and collaborative resources on Google Docs: [ARF Team Google Docs](https://drive.google.com/drive/u/0/folders/1xvKh-lGc2nGcpAKT4LBbqOglejmYKign) (requires permissions request).

Below are some documents worth calling out specifically:

* [ARP Team Jargon](/products/accredited-representative-facing/product-info/arf-team-jargon.md).

## The Team

### Core Members

- **Product Owner:** Jennifer Bertsch - [jennifer.bertsch@va.gov](mailto:jennifer.bertsch@va.gov)
- **Engineering Lead:** Sam Raudabaugh - [samuel.raudabaugh@va.gov](mailto:samuel.raudabaugh@va.gov)
- **Design Lead:** Lesley Ropp - [lesley.ropp@va.gov](mailto:lesley.ropp@va.gov)
- **Product Manager:** Mike Marinos - [mike@agile6.com](mailto:mike@agile6.com)
- [View Full ARF Team Roster](https://github.com/orgs/department-of-veterans-affairs/projects/947/views/4)

### Team Agreements

#### General Agreements

Learn about our overall team's working style and agreements: [ARF Team Agreements](/teams/vso/teams/accredited-representative-facing/process/team-agreements.md).

#### Design Agreements

Learn about our design working style and agreements: [ARF Design Agreements](/teams/vso/teams/accredited-representative-facing/process/design-agreements.md).

#### Engineering Agreements

Learn about our engineering working style and agreements: [ARF Engineering Agreements](/teams/vso/teams/accredited-representative-facing/process/engineering-agreements.md).

## Stay Connected

### Communication

Do you have questions or want to get in touch? Join us on the DSVA Slack channel: [#benefits-representative-facing](https://dsva.slack.com/archives/C05SUUM4GAW).

To reach out to ARF engineers on Slack, message @arfeng

To tag engineers on Github PRs, tag: [benefits-accredited-rep-facing]([url](https://github.com/orgs/department-of-veterans-affairs/teams/benefits-accredited-rep-facing)https://github.com/orgs/department-of-veterans-affairs/teams/benefits-accredited-rep-facing)

Commit message:

update the ARF mission statement and about

products/accredited-representative-facing/README.md, after:

_The nature of the content in this folder should conform to these [repository organizational guidelines](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/blob/master/platform/working-with-vsp/orientation/repo-guidelines.md#about-the-platform-products-and-teams-folders)_

# Accredited Representative Facing (ARF)

## About ARF

The Accredited Representative Facing (ARF) team, part of the Accredited Reps Crew within the Office of the Chief Technology Officer (OCTO) Benefits Portfolio at the Department of Veterans Affairs, supports Accredited Representatives in their work with Veterans.

## Mission

Our mission is to create an accessible, modern, and secure online system for Accredited Representatives. We aim to streamline the use of digital forms, providing a faster and smoother experience for both representatives and the Veterans they serve, ultimately improving the overall VA experience.

## Product Resources

### Minimum Viable Product (MVP)

Explore the specifics of the ARF MVP and its impact: [ARF Team MVP](/products/accredited-representative-facing/product-info/arf-minimum-viable-product.md).

### Roadmap

View our strategic roadmap for future developments and milestones: [ARF Team Roadmap](https://app.mural.co/t/departmentofveteransaffairs9999/m/departmentofveteransaffairs9999/1705012017021/1d76cf5fe7c9aab8ee495159f04a4e45853cdae8?sender=uc9e0a2b4a5929fc36a737045).

### Work in Progress (WIP)

To track our current projects and view our progress, visit the ARF Team's Zenhub Workspace: [ARF Team Zenhub](https://app.zenhub.com/workspaces/accredited-representative-facing-team-65453a97a9cc36069a2ad1d6/board).

### Documentation

Access our ongoing documentation and collaborative resources on Google Docs: [ARF Team Google Docs](https://drive.google.com/drive/u/0/folders/1xvKh-lGc2nGcpAKT4LBbqOglejmYKign) (requires permissions request).

Below are some documents worth calling out specifically:

* [ARP Team Jargon](/products/accredited-representative-facing/product-info/arf-team-jargon.md).

## The Team

### Core Members

- **Product Owner:** Jennifer Bertsch - [jennifer.bertsch@va.gov](mailto:jennifer.bertsch@va.gov)
- **Engineering Lead:** Sam Raudabaugh - [samuel.raudabaugh@va.gov](mailto:samuel.raudabaugh@va.gov)
- **Design Lead:** Lesley Ropp - [lesley.ropp@va.gov](mailto:lesley.ropp@va.gov)
- **Product Manager:** Mike Marinos - [mike@agile6.com](mailto:mike@agile6.com)
- [View Full ARF Team Roster](https://github.com/orgs/department-of-veterans-affairs/projects/947/views/4)

### Team Agreements

#### General Agreements

Learn about our overall team's working style and agreements: [ARF Team Agreements](/teams/vso/teams/accredited-representative-facing/process/team-agreements.md).

#### Design Agreements

Learn about our design working style and agreements: [ARF Design Agreements](/teams/vso/teams/accredited-representative-facing/process/design-agreements.md).

#### Engineering Agreements

Learn about our engineering working style and agreements: [ARF Engineering Agreements](/teams/vso/teams/accredited-representative-facing/process/engineering-agreements.md).

## Stay Connected

### Communication

Do you have questions or want to get in touch? Join us on the DSVA Slack channel: [#benefits-representative-facing](https://dsva.slack.com/archives/C05SUUM4GAW).

To reach out to ARF engineers on Slack, message @arfeng

To tag engineers on Github PRs, tag: [benefits-accredited-rep-facing]([url](https://github.com/orgs/department-of-veterans-affairs/teams/benefits-accredited-rep-facing)https://github.com/orgs/department-of-veterans-affairs/teams/benefits-accredited-rep-facing)
