# Marital Status Design Decisions


Page | Question | Decision | Date | Notes and rationale
--- | --- | --- | --- | ---
--- | Which VA forms should we audit? | As many as possible | 4/15/25 | Beth Pandone from the Forms Team originally suggested this pattern for us to work on. Their team had started to work on it, but couldn't finish it before their contract closed. As Jeana Clark notes in this Slack thread, their team had done an early audit of 200+ undigitized forms to see what common patterns were in them that they might need to account for in the future, and marital status showed up on that list. They listed those PDFs in a spreadsheet, which we then copied and transfered into the Marital Status Discover Mural board. (The board is where we keep the updated information.) Adam looked in the code and found digitized forms that contained the marital status question, which we listed in Github and added to the Mural board. The VA Forms Team probably didn't catch every PDF with marital status questions, but with our code references research we think we probably caught all of the digitized forms.
--- | What other design systems have marital status patterns? | Several UK examples | 4/14/25 | Lynn shared that she found a UK design pattern for marital status, which has many options. The city of Leeds in the UK might have also had a marital status pattern, but their link no longer appears to work. Generally, Lynn was surprised that more design systems didn't have this pattern.
--- | Does VA consider married the same for all benefits? | Yes | 4/21/25 |  Although this isn't a design decision per se, it is a central question when standardizing these questions across the VA ecosystem. VA's Important Information on Marriage explains how it recognizes marriages as an agency, which leads us to believe that if a union is recognized as a marriage for the purpose of one benefit, it will be recognized as a marriage for the purpose of all VA benefits. 
--- | Is this one pattern or multiple patterns? | One pattern | 4/18/25 | We discussed this verbally over a few calls and over this Slack thread. One perspective is that the first pattern should be the marital status, marriage type, and reason for termination, with the other content falling into another pattern. Our stakeholder Matt Dingee clarified in this Slack thread that he'd like to see them as a single pattern so that designers can go to one place to see the variations. We discussed the VADS documentation and agreed internally that it would be one pattern. 
--- | Should we structure our pattern like 686C, which asks after each former marriage if you have another marriage to add, or like 527EZ, which asks upfront how many marriages you have. | Like 686c (list and loop) | 4/16/25 | We discussed this briefly in a Slack thread. On the one hand, it could be annoying to get asked after every marriage if you have another to add. But on the other hand, that's the standard list and loop/multiple response behavior, and this feels like the right case for a list and loop. We should talk with 527EZ and learn why they asked the number of marriages at the start.
 --- | Should we nest list and loops? | No | 4/17/2 | As noted in this Slack thread, Belle "searched OCTO Slack to see if there were any teams that tried doing nested list & loops, and I come across this thread from 2022 in which Robert Garrison says he wants to avoid it." Also, Forms system doesn’t support nested list & loops, so this would require a custom solution and there are potential backend/API integration issues with that solution.
--- | Should we structure the pattern as one chapter or multiple chapters? | One chapter | 4/24/25 | One of our earlier Slack conversations assumed this would be broken out over multiple chapters. This Slack conversation assumes the same. This Slack thread shows research of how some digital forms break out their marital- or spouse-related questions, and we see that they often do it over a single chapter. So, we decided to do the same.
--- |  Should our pattern be usable by users other than Veterans? | Yes | 4/17/25 | As Lynn noted, "our primary use case is a respondent answering questions about themselves, but I think our pattern guidance should be usable for the other scenarios." We don't think the pattern would need any significant changes to ask about the marital status of a spouse or other Veteran dependent. 
Marital status | Should the marital status options be shown in a radio button or select (dropdown) field? | Radio button | 4/14/25 | The radio button component notes that if there are 2-5 options, expose them all at once with the radio button component. Note that 527EZ uses a select field and they may have reasons they chose a select field instead.
Marital status | How should we guide users in civil unions, domestic partnerships, or other less-than-clear situations which marital status to select? | Provide guidance directly under the question. Link to the guidance page once it's moved to Drupal. | 5/2/25 | We posed this question to the Content Team as questions 1 and 2. Notes of that conversation are captured in Github, but in short, they want to include the guidance in-line, below the question. We should avoid 2 Additional Info on the same page, so keep the one Additional Info about why we ask that information. If the legacy link moves to Drupal, we can include it in the description under the question later. Additional conversation and validation happened in this Slack thread.
Marital status | Should we break "divorced" and "anulled" into 2 separate options on the "What is your current marital status" page? | No| 4/9/25| We discussed this verbally over a few calls and over this Slack thread. One perspective is that the first pattern should be the marital status, marriage type, and reason for termination, with the other content falling into another pattern. Our stakeholder Matt Dingee clarified in this Slack thread that he'd like to see them as a single pattern so that designers can go to one place to see the variations. 
Marital status|	Should we use the phrase "Not married" or "Never married"?|	Never married|	4/9/25|	Lauren Vocke from the Content team advised us to use "Never married". As she notes in this Slack thread, "'Not married' could technically apply to someone who is divorced or widowed and may cause confusion."
Marital status|	Would it be clearer to change “separated” to “legally separated”?|	Use just "separated"|	5/2/25|	We posed this to the Content Team as question 4. Content said this is a better question for the VA legal team, or individual product teams. It's not totally clear what "legally" separated means; it probably depends on your local jurisdiction. In our exporation we've only found Form 10-10C that uses the phrase "legally separated" rather than simply "separated". This might be a decision their team makes to adjust the phrasing. Because no other form (and especially no digital form) uses "legally," we feel comfortable using just "separated" in our pattern. 
Marital status|	What’s the best order for the “Married, Separated, Divorced,” etc. options?|	married, divorced, separated, widowed, never married|	5/2/25|	We posed this question to the Content Team as question 3. They wanted "never married" to be either first or last (as the other options all indicate you are or have been married at one point). They suggest using the display order we have: married, divorced (which they think will likely be the most common responses), separated, widowed, and never married. We're going to see if we can pull up any analytics indicating the most common responses. If we find data indicating that there is a much more popular answer that should be listed first, we will revisit this question. 
Spouse’s personal information|	Should the question about the spouse's name come before or after the questions about when and where you were married? |	Ask the name first, then logistical questions|	4/22/25|	As Kristen notes in this Slack thread, "If we're trying to make this human-centered, it's a lot more natural and empathetic to ask their name before the time/place details of the union. But there might be technical reasons we need to ask the name after the details, including conditional questions and also how many patterns we divide the spouse-related questions into." We later revisited this conversation in Slack. We never learned of any technical reasons to ask the name later, so we ask the name first, followed by more logistical questions.
Spouse’s personal information|	Do we need to account for cases where the spouse does not have an SSN?|	We can keep it required|	4/28/25|	We worried about cases in which the spouse doesn't have an SSN. Christine noted in a Figma comment that permanent residents actually get issued an SSN. If a spouse is not a citizen and marries a Veteran, who must also have legal residence in the US, then they can apply for residency based on their spouse and get an SSN if they don't already have one. Additional information on the SSA's Social Security Numbers for U.S. Permanent Residents page. Additionally: Forms 686c and 527EZ both require a spouse SSN, so we could talk with those teams about the rationale for requiring it. 
Spouse’s personal information|	Should we use the phrase “deceased” spouse or “late” spouse?|	Deceased spouse|	5/2/25|	We posed this question to the Content Team as question 6. They said we try to use clear, plain language without euphemisms. Use the word "deceased."
Spouse’s personal information|	How can we avoid asking contact information for a spouse or previous spouse who is now deceased?|	Add a checkbox on the first page about previous spouse information asking if they are deceased|	4/30/25|	This question sparked a lot of conversation. This Figma comment (and another) and this related Slack thread suggested moving the "How did the marriage end?" question earlier in the flow so that we could find out if the marriage ended in death before we asked for the contact info of the potentially-deceased person. However, we realized that a marriage might have ended in divorce, but the spouse later died. So moving the "How did the marriage end" question earlier wouldn't fully resolve the problem. Our solution is to add a field on the first page that asks personal information about the past spouse indicating if the previous spouse is deceased or not. This tells us at the start of the flow if we should refer to them in the past tense in subsequent questions, and also allows us to skip the question about contact information. We checked with the Content team about this checkbox (see question 7) and they thought it was appropriate.
Spouse’s personal information|	Should the "My previous spouse is now deceased" be a checkbox or radio button?|	A checkbox|	4/30/25|	We discussed this verbally over a team call and decided that a checkbox took up a bit more space. If we get feedback from Platform that a radio button is a better choice, we can easily adjust it.
Spouse’s personal information|	Should we include a question asking about a (current or former) spouse's miltiary service number? If so, where should it appear?|	No, but provide guidance for how teams can build it in|	4/30/25|	We originally decided that we didn't need to include this question, because only one form asks it. However, the Slack thread notes that the form that includes it (Form 21-686c) is digitized, meaning that they would be a candidate to adopt our pattern. Since we're trying to make it as easy as possible for digitized forms to adopt this pattern, we reconsidered. Our hesitation was largely because it wasn't clear where to place the question. On the one hand, it makes sense to display the military service number as a conditional field under "Is your spouse also a Veteran?" along with "VA file number". But it violates guidance to show two conditional fields on the same page. As this Figma comment notes, we also didn't like the idea of putting it as a single question on a subsequent page, which would make the pattern even longer. Our compromise is to have only one conditional field (VA file number) but provide guidance saying if your form also requires a military service number, display that with the VA file number question on a conditional page named “Spouse’s military history”. This avoids having two conditional questions appear on the same page, and avoids having a single question on a page.
Spouse’s personal information|	Do we need to ask if the spouse is deceased in the separated flow?|	No|	5/2/25|	As noted in this Figma comment, if you are "separated" you are technically still married, which means your spouse is alive. If you're married and your spouse dies, then you would follow the widowed flow.
Living situation|	Do we need to ask "Do you currently live with your previous spouse?" and "Did you live with your previous spouse for any part of the previous year?" in the Divorced flow?|	No|	5/1/25|	As noted in this Figma comment, Kristen audited the forms in our Mural board and didn't find any forms that asked these questions about divorced spouses. As such, we removed them from the Divorce flow. We discussed the order and presentation of these questions for other flows in this Slack conversation. 
Living situation|	Do we need to ask "Do you currently live with your previous spouse?" and "Did you live with your previous spouse for any part of the previous year?" in the Widowed flow?|	No|	5/1/25|	As noted in this Figma comment and this other Figma comment, Kristen audited the forms in our Mural board and found that although some forms ask details of a deceased spouse, none ask these specific questions. As such, we removed them from the Widowed flow. Here are the questions Kristen found when an user indicates they Widowed: 👉🏼 0516 and 0517 ask for the date of death if it was within the last 12 months; 👉🏼 0590 asks for date of marriage for a deceased spouse; 👉🏼 0537 asks for the date of death (but this is an odd form and I don't think it would use our pattern) 
Spouse's address and phone number|	Should we group the previous spouse's address and phone number fields? (Meaning that if we ask one, we ask them both?)|	Yes|	4/30/25|	We saw on some forms that a spouse's (or former spouse's) address and phone number are grouped together on the same conditional page that was triggered if the applicant says they don't live together/don't have the same address. We wondered if assessors would ever need a spouse's phone number even if they have the same address as the applicant. As noted in this Figma comment, we looked through the forms and found 4 that ask about spouse's phone numbers. It turns out that the forms that would use our pattern all only ask for the phone number if you don't live with the spouse, and they always ask for the phone number alongside the address. So, it's Ok for our pattern to group phone and address together as well. Details: 👉🏼 29-541 (PDF only): I don't think this form would actually use our pattern. It asks a few questions about the spouse, but not about their marital status; 👉🏼 10-10EC (PDF only): Provide address and phone number if different from Veteran. (So it's Ok to group them together.) 👉🏼 10-10EZ (Digitized): "Do you have a different address from your spouse?" If no, it asks for your spouse address and phone number. (So it's Ok to group them together.) 👉🏼 10-10EZR (Digitized): Same as 10-10EZ.
Date/location|	What specific location information do we need to ask about a marriage or divorce location?|	City and state OR city and country|	4/30/25|	As noted in this Figma comment, forms city + state OR a city + country. Either way, the city is required. No zip code or other information is needed. Additionally, as noted in this Figma comment, we kept a checkbox to indicate if they got married outside the US, but it's different from the checkbox in the standard address component, which is specifically about military bases.
How did you get married?|	What options should we provide in the "How did you get married" question?|	Use the detailed options from Form 686c|	4/28/25|	As noted in this Figma comment, Form 527EZ provides these options: (1) "In a civil or religious ceremony with an officiant who signed my marriage license" and (2) "Some other way" (with a conditional field to explain). Some other forms have many other options. For example, Form 686c has these options: (1) In a religious ceremony with a clergyperson who signed my marriage, (2) In a civil ceremony with an officiant who signed my marriage license, (3) By common law, (4) By proxy, (5) In a tribal ceremony, and (6) Some other way (with a conditional field to explain. This Figma comment suggests that we use the more detailed options in 686c, which is what we went with.
Spouse's former marriages|	When asking about spouses you've divorced, should they be called “previous spouse”, “former spouse”, or “past spouse”?|	Previous spouse|	5/2/25|	We posed this question to the Content Team as question 13. They advised us to use "previous spouse".
Spouse's former marriages|	When asking about a spouse's former spouses, should we include an additional info component explaining why we need this? And generally, should we have just one of these at the start, or sprinkled throughout where it seems needed?|	TBD|	TBD|	We posed this question to the Content Team as question 10. We're waiting for their feedback.
Spouse's former marriages|	How can we make it clearer that we're asking about your current spouse's former marriages?|	TBD|	TBD|	We posed this question to the Content Team as question 12. We're waiting for their feedback.
Upload|	Do we need to include a marriage or divorce certificate in the Divorce flow?|	No|	4/28/25|	We first asked this question in this Slack thread. As Christine noted in this Figma comment, Form 21-4170 does require a divorce and marriage decree to get submitted along with it. (See also the Murals with dark circles.)
Review your marriages|	What header level should the header be in the card with previous marriages?|	H4|	5/1/25|	As noted in this Figma comment, the header should be h4. Note that in Update Prefill, we format the h4 as an h3. I think it's fine to leave out this custom code in this pattern.
Review your marriages|	What adjustments can make the "Do you have any previous marriages?" question more trauma-informed?|	TBD|	TBD|	We posed this question to the Content Team as question 5. We're waiting for their feedback.


