products/login.gov-adoption/discovery/mfa security keys pilot/README.md, before:

# Outline

---

## Overview
Users could potentially struggle with MFA if that's not something they are familiar with. Are there any changes we can make on VA.gov or Login.gov can make to assist in MFA setup?


## Problem Statement
Some users struggle with using Multi-Factor Authentication. Could MHV Coordinator provide these users with security keys as an alternative?

## Desired User Outcomes

- A Veteran user will receive a MFA security key and successfully setup account access.

## Undesired User Outcomes


## Desired Business Outcomes

- Increase the speed of implementation of the CX EO, “the deprecation of outdated and duplicative credentials” represented by MHV and DS Logon. 
- Increased security of MFA and compliance with National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) guidance for Identity
- Reduced fraud
- Increased user satisfaction

## Undesired Business Outcomes


---
## Measuring Success


### Key Performance Indicators (KPIs)
* *What data (qual or quant) will you look at to understand if your initial set of functionality is meeting your desired user and business outcomes, and not bringing about the undesired outcomes?*
* _What are the most important metrics that track with this product/initiative's success?_
* [Login Metrics](https://analytics.google.com/analytics/web/#/dashboard/I6gZ1NVTT6ujnnu4hU1KLA/a50123418w177519031p176188361/_u.dateOption=last30days/)
* _**Limit 5-6 KPIs per product**__

| Category | Ease of use | Service completion | Trust/Satisfaction | Health |
|----------|-------------|--------------------|--------------------|--------|
| KPI      |             |                    |                    |        |
| KPI      |             |                    |                    |        |

#### Baseline KPI Values
* TBD

### Objectives and Key Results (OKRs)
_What are the measurable targets you're aiming for that delivers value for Veterans?_

- Objective:
  - Key result: Increase Login.gov adoption
  - Key result: 


---

## Assumptions
- *Include indication of which assumption you think is most risky. Your Solution Approach (next section) should describe how you'll validate that assumption w/your initial set of functionality*

## Solution Approach

- *What are you going to build now, and why have you decided to start there?*
- *Why this solution / approach over other solutions / approaches?*
- *What have you explicitly decided to not include in this initial set of functionality, and why?*
- *How will the solution / approach evolve after this initial build (knowing that this will likely change as you learn from users along the way)?*

### Initiatives
*Include initiatives (iterations, new features, etc.) to improve this product. See the [Initiative Brief Template](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/blob/master/teams/vsa/product/initiative-brief-template.md)*

- Initiative | [Link to Initiative Brief](#)

--- 

## Launch Strategy
- *How are Veterans and others using this product going to know it exists?*
- *What marketing, outreach, or communications are necessary for this product to be successful?*
- [Link to Release Plan](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/blob/master/platform/product-management/release-plan-template.md)

## Launch Dates
- *Target Launch Date*
  - tbd
- *Actual Launch Date* 
  - tbd
- *What date will you evaluate impact after launch (and when do you expect to have your Impact Review)?*
  - tbd

---

## Solution Narrative

### Current Status

### Key Decisions

---
   
## Screenshots

### Before

### After

---

#### Communications

<details>

- Team Name: Login.gov Adoption Team
- GitHub Label: login.gov-adoption
- Slack: [#va-identity-product-team](https://dsva.slack.com/archives/C0429DNFN8Y)
- Product POCs: Elizabeth Koch
- Stakeholders: John Rahaghi

</details>

#### Team Members

<details>
 
 - DEPO Lead: 
 - PM: Elizabeth Koch
 - Engineering: Steve Dickson
 - Research/Design: Tyler Gindraux
 
</details>


#### Stakeholders

<details>
 
-GSA/Login.gov
-VSP Identity Team
-MHV
 
</details>

Commit message:

Add info block to mfs security keys pilot

products/login.gov-adoption/discovery/mfa security keys pilot/README.md, after:

> [!Warning]
> Post initial discovery work ending in December 2022, MFA Security Keys pilot and Non-Veterna User Roles research were deprioritized in favor of  [adoption-focused work](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/tree/master/products/login.gov-adoption/communication-campaign/).
> The content contained below is an intial draft of this work.
# Outline

---

## Overview
Users could potentially struggle with MFA if that's not something they are familiar with. Are there any changes we can make on VA.gov or Login.gov can make to assist in MFA setup?


## Problem Statement
Some users struggle with using Multi-Factor Authentication. Could MHV Coordinator provide these users with security keys as an alternative?

## Desired User Outcomes

- A Veteran user will receive a MFA security key and successfully setup account access.

## Undesired User Outcomes


## Desired Business Outcomes

- Increase the speed of implementation of the CX EO, “the deprecation of outdated and duplicative credentials” represented by MHV and DS Logon. 
- Increased security of MFA and compliance with National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) guidance for Identity
- Reduced fraud
- Increased user satisfaction

## Undesired Business Outcomes


---
## Measuring Success


### Key Performance Indicators (KPIs)
* *What data (qual or quant) will you look at to understand if your initial set of functionality is meeting your desired user and business outcomes, and not bringing about the undesired outcomes?*
* _What are the most important metrics that track with this product/initiative's success?_
* [Login Metrics](https://analytics.google.com/analytics/web/#/dashboard/I6gZ1NVTT6ujnnu4hU1KLA/a50123418w177519031p176188361/_u.dateOption=last30days/)
* _**Limit 5-6 KPIs per product**__

| Category | Ease of use | Service completion | Trust/Satisfaction | Health |
|----------|-------------|--------------------|--------------------|--------|
| KPI      |             |                    |                    |        |
| KPI      |             |                    |                    |        |

#### Baseline KPI Values
* TBD

### Objectives and Key Results (OKRs)
_What are the measurable targets you're aiming for that delivers value for Veterans?_

- Objective:
  - Key result: Increase Login.gov adoption
  - Key result: 


---

## Assumptions
- *Include indication of which assumption you think is most risky. Your Solution Approach (next section) should describe how you'll validate that assumption w/your initial set of functionality*

## Solution Approach

- *What are you going to build now, and why have you decided to start there?*
- *Why this solution / approach over other solutions / approaches?*
- *What have you explicitly decided to not include in this initial set of functionality, and why?*
- *How will the solution / approach evolve after this initial build (knowing that this will likely change as you learn from users along the way)?*

### Initiatives
*Include initiatives (iterations, new features, etc.) to improve this product. See the [Initiative Brief Template](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/blob/master/teams/vsa/product/initiative-brief-template.md)*

- Initiative | [Link to Initiative Brief](#)

--- 

## Launch Strategy
- *How are Veterans and others using this product going to know it exists?*
- *What marketing, outreach, or communications are necessary for this product to be successful?*
- [Link to Release Plan](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/blob/master/platform/product-management/release-plan-template.md)

## Launch Dates
- *Target Launch Date*
  - tbd
- *Actual Launch Date* 
  - tbd
- *What date will you evaluate impact after launch (and when do you expect to have your Impact Review)?*
  - tbd

---

## Solution Narrative

### Current Status

### Key Decisions

---
   
## Screenshots

### Before

### After

---

#### Communications

<details>

- Team Name: Login.gov Adoption Team
- GitHub Label: login.gov-adoption
- Slack: [#va-identity-product-team](https://dsva.slack.com/archives/C0429DNFN8Y)
- Product POCs: Elizabeth Koch
- Stakeholders: John Rahaghi

</details>

#### Team Members

<details>
 
 - DEPO Lead: 
 - PM: Elizabeth Koch
 - Engineering: Steve Dickson
 - Research/Design: Tyler Gindraux
 
</details>


#### Stakeholders

<details>
 
-GSA/Login.gov
-VSP Identity Team
-MHV
 
</details>
