Uses mail order prescriptions and address change

# Conversation Guide for Address Management Research, April-May 2020

## Moderator logistics
*Use [#feedback-backchannel](https://dsva.slack.com/messages/C40B45NJK/details/) in Slack for real-time feedback from observers.*
*Before the session, send out the [observer instructions](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/vets.gov-team/blob/master/Practice%20Areas/Research/Research%20Process%20and%20Templates/observer-instructions.md) to your observers (Slackbot will do this for you if you type "observer instructions" into [#feedback-backchannel](https://dsva.slack.com/channels/feedback-backchannel)).*
*In the Attendees section, make sure everyone except the participant is on mute*
*In the Audio section, click the drop-down arrow and make sure "Play Entry/Exit Chimes" is unchecked*

*Check your [screensharing setup](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/vets.gov-team/blob/master/Practice%20Areas/remote-work/sharing-your-screen.md)*

*When the participant is ready, begin the session with the following intro*

## Intro - 5 minutes

Thanks for joining us today! My name is Lauryl Zenobi and I also have some colleagues on the line observing and taking notes. Today we're going to talk about your experiences managing your addresses and contact information across the VA. 

Before we start, a few things I want to mention:

- **This entire session should take about 45 minutes.** I want to be sure not to keep you much longer, so I may occasionally prompt you with the next question or topic.
- **In this session, we want to hear your honest opinions.** We are not testing your ability. We just want to improve these tools to better meet Veteran's needs. I will not be offended by any opinions you express, and I welcome your feedback.
- **If for any reason and at any time you want to stop the session, please let me know.** 
- **Are you comfortable if I record my screen and audio as we talk today?** We use the recordings to confirm that we have captured your opinions accurately. The recordings are destroyed after we complete analysis, and none of your comments will be attributed to you directly. 
    - If yes: **Once I start recording, I am going to confirm that you are ok with me recording this session once more.** 

*Start recording.*

- **I have started recording. I'd like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record my screen and the audio as we talk today?" 

## Warm-up Questions
Let’s start with a few warm-up questions.
- What VA websites do you use?
	- VA.gov, but mostly MHV
- How do you normally interact with the VA? In person, online, over phone, etc?
	- “I get my appointments by email or text, or I check them on MHV. Normally I go there for my appointments, that’s about it. I have been using the messages during the last couple of months because of Covid. And that’s worked very well, I get a response. The messaging on MHV directly to my doc.”
	- Normally I go there [in person] for my appointments
	- I have used the message [secure messaging on MHV] because of COVID
- What types of addresses have you given to the VA?
	 - “I have been at my current address for 47 years... When I got my new card, they put an apartment number on there for some reason, and this is a house, always has been. It isn’t a two-flat or anything. So I tried to correct it online, but I couldn’t do it. So next I went to the VA, I went down, and the lady at the desk corrected it. So I’ve had one address, for some reason an apartment number showed up mysteriously, and I had it corrected.” 
- To correct > “I went to profile, and I kept putting in a change address. I would modify that, I tried that. I could not find the exact place to change the address, and I didn't want to take too many chances, so I went down there personally. I was going down there anyways...I couldn’t get through to change my address, it wouldn’t let me. I thought a lot of things were set up so that somebody couldn’t go in and have the VA mail it to the person down the street instead of me. I think it was VA.gov [that I went to]”. 
	- last time I got a new card, they put an apartment number on it but I don’t have one
		- went to profile [on VA.gov] and tried to find “change address” but I couldn’t find the correct place
		- I didn’t want to take any chances so I went in person
		- I thought there were a lot of things set up so someone couldn’t go in and change my address nefariously
	- I tried to correct it online but they couldn’t do it, so I went in to the facility and corrected it in person
 * What does the VA use your address or addresses for?
Mainly VA medical information -- upcoming visit etc
They do it online and by text and then I get a letter [laughs] I’m well informed
“Mainly VA medical information, a upcoming visit. They’ll do it online, they’ll do it by text, and then I get a letter also! So I’m well-informed. I do get some publications from the VA, I don't know off-hand, they aren’t very frequent. And of course, they sent me my new card twice, so that’s it.”
I get some publications from the VA, they’re not very frequent
They sent me my new card (twice)
“The actual address was accurate except that it showed an apartment number. At first I didn’t care, because it was the right address, but then I thought I should straighten it out for future problems. And I tried online. Then when I was down there, I asked the lady at the desk to get rid of it, and she looked at my IDs and such, and they issued a new card by mail.”
[so it was still deliverable, he received the card in the mail]
I went in person to change it and they issued a new card by mail
Prescriptions by mail
Log into MHV, go to “renew or update prescriptions”, check the ones that need refills
Just recently checked it because I thought it was up for renewal but I had different dates from what the VA had
Check the ones that are up for refill and then they mail them to me
How do you know it’s going to the correct address?
“I really don’t know...I think they ask if there’s an address change. That’s  one of the things on the screen - ‘check you address’.”
Announcements about visits by mail
Recently, information about COVID
“99% medical or more”

## Updating addresses
- Tell me about the last time you updated your address or contact information with the VA 
* What was that process like?
* Why did you need to change your address?
* Where did you go to change it?
* How did you know the change went through?
* How often do you change your address at the VA?
* What information do you change often?
Other contact info changes?
Nothing in memory -- phone has stayed the same for as long as I’ve been dealing with the VA
Had the same home phone for 48 years, same cell number for the  past 20 or so years
- How do you know if VA has your most current address information?
	- particularly for prescriptions?
		- MHV asks if there’s an address change
	* How would you check that? 
- Why is it important to you for the VA to have up to date addresses?
	- Pharmacy for sure
	- Notices of doctors’ visits
	- updates on care and availability
	- “Paper mail from the UPS is usually a backup to info on MHV. I don’t think I’ve gotten anything by mail that I didn’t already see on the website.”
	- “I’ve never really had any address problems, that one, for some reason, was a glitch. That was the only problem I ever had. And that goes back a while, three or four years ago. It went from a paper card to a photo card, and that one was fine. Then I got the new issued one with the [apartment number].”
-  except for the glitch with the card (which was 3-4 years ago)
		- it wasn’t a big deal because I was already at the VA facility for to get a flu shot
- What might happen if you don’t change your address?
	- returned mail, especially if a new postal worker was delivering
	- the first time the erroneous apartment number popped up was on a random magazine subscription (non VA related), a golf magazine or something. ‘Where did this come from?’.
		- it never stopped anything being delivered
		- it’s not happening anymore
	- “I think if I hadn’t changed it nothing would have happened, I think it would have been fine. But they may have rules about prescriptions, that they couldn’t deliver it to a [wrong address].”
- the only thing I imagine being an issue is prescriptions
- What contact information is unnecessary for the VA to have?
	- I can’t think of anything that would be unnecessary
	- “All the info I put in --  next of kin, notification, and all that --  it’s fine with me. I would want the VA to have that for a lot of reasons. I don’t think there’s any contact info that I’ve given them that isn’t at least potentially necessary.”

## Final questions
- If you had a magic wand and could change something about updating your information with VA, what would it be?
	- “By going to the Profile, I could not figure out how to actually change it. I even put in the search, I did it a bunch of times. I couldn’t get to the point where it says “change your address”. I tried a bunch of ways, but the answers I got online were ‘go to your profile and change that’. And I couldn’t - I don’t why. I went to the profile, and there was no way that I could figure out to get to the area where you put in a new or change of address. It could’ve been me, i don’t know. It was difficult, it was impossible for me. It did everything down to the point of putting in a new address, but I had no way of inputting a new address off the profile menu. There was no way. I remember, I tried it a bunch of times. I thought I was missing something, so I went through all the menus. But I could not change it online. [haven’t tried it in the last four years though]”
	- [When I tried] I couldn’t updated my address on the website -- I tried a bunch of times, a bunch of different ways
	- The answers I got online were “go to your profile”, but I couldn’t get any further than “here’s what you do” -- when I went to my profile there was no way I could figure out to get to the area to change my address
	- I had no way of inputting any new address
	- I don’t know if that’s changed, I haven’t tried it recently
- How would you change your address now?
	- I would go to MHV, go to my profile, and hopefully find a correct way of doing it. And if it didn’t work, I would go back to the VA facility and take care of it in person
	- I’m guessing it’s been streamlined [since I last tried it] but I don’t know
- What haven’t I asked you that I should have?
	- I think that that’s all my wisdom on managing addresses at the VA
	- “My first shot would be on the internet, the website, probably MHV. Then my fallback is when I go down to the VA anyways, escalate [it in person]. I would try to go and change it, but I don’t want to goof up my correct address!”
- first = changing things is the internet, my fallback is in person
- Any questions for me?
- Other thoughts
	- MHV has been really great

## Thank-You and Closing - 2 minutes

Well we really appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us today. Your feedback is so helpful to us as we continue to work on the site and make sure it really works for Veterans.

Thanks! Lastly, do you know any other Veterans, caregivers, or service members who might be willing to participate in a future user research session? 
    If Yes: Thank you! I'll have our team send you an email with a little blurb that you can pass along. 

Great, well thank you so much again, and enjoy the rest of your day!
