Uses mail order prescriptions and address change

# Conversation Guide for Address Management Research, April-May 2020

## Moderator logistics
*Use [#feedback-backchannel](https://dsva.slack.com/messages/C40B45NJK/details/) in Slack for real-time feedback from observers.*
*Before the session, send out the [observer instructions](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/vets.gov-team/blob/master/Practice%20Areas/Research/Research%20Process%20and%20Templates/observer-instructions.md) to your observers (Slackbot will do this for you if you type "observer instructions" into [#feedback-backchannel](https://dsva.slack.com/channels/feedback-backchannel)).*
*In the Attendees section, make sure everyone except the participant is on mute*
*In the Audio section, click the drop-down arrow and make sure "Play Entry/Exit Chimes" is unchecked*

*Check your [screensharing setup](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/vets.gov-team/blob/master/Practice%20Areas/remote-work/sharing-your-screen.md)*

*When the participant is ready, begin the session with the following intro*

## Intro - 5 minutes

Thanks for joining us today! My name is Lauryl Zenobi and I also have some colleagues on the line observing and taking notes. Today we're going to talk about your experiences managing your addresses and contact information across the VA. 

Before we start, a few things I want to mention:

- **This entire session should take about 45 minutes.** I want to be sure not to keep you much longer, so I may occasionally prompt you with the next question or topic.
- **In this session, we want to hear your honest opinions.** We are not testing your ability. We just want to improve these tools to better meet Veteran's needs. I will not be offended by any opinions you express, and I welcome your feedback.
- **If for any reason and at any time you want to stop the session, please let me know.** 
- **Are you comfortable if I record my screen and audio as we talk today?** We use the recordings to confirm that we have captured your opinions accurately. The recordings are destroyed after we complete analysis, and none of your comments will be attributed to you directly. 
    - If yes: **Once I start recording, I am going to confirm that you are ok with me recording this session once more.** 

*Start recording.*

- **I have started recording. I'd like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record my screen and the audio as we talk today?" 

## Warm-up Questions
Let’s start with a few warm-up questions.
- What VA websites do you use?
	- MHV
	- eBenefits
- How do you normally interact with the VA? In person, online, over phone, etc?
	- through the website (the health eVet website) and in person and telephone
- What types of addresses have you given to the VA?
	- we moved several times
	- I started out with my parents, I was a disabled veteran so I had to keep changing my address every time I moved
	- also went to college on VA benefits
	- lived oversees for 7 years as a foreign service officer, that’s 2 more addresses
	- moved six more times domestically
- “We moved several times. I started out with my parents, I was a disabled veteran so I had to keep changing my address whenever I moved. I also went to college on the VA rehabilitation program, so that meant another address. We lived overseas for seven years, so that’s two more addresses, which was through the embassy. We moved through Virginia two times, so that’s two more. One time I lived in Maryland, so that’s another one. Then we moved to South Carolina, we lived in three different houses, this being the last one. So I’d say several times.”
 	* What does the VA use your address or addresses for?


## Updating addresses
- Tell me about the last time you updated your address or contact information with the VA 
* What was that process like?
“Because I have prescriptions, they generally change it through I think the prescription website.”
“For the most part, the VA sends me things, but it’s all based on my [VIHC] card. So when I walk into the VA in Charleston I slide my card through there, they already know my address and everything. Because it’s on that card and the pharmacy changes it whenever I move. And if that doesn’t happen then I go on and change it. So I’m sure it’s been a mixture of different ways of doing that, possibly changing it online as well as changing it through the pharmacy.”
The pharmacy usually changes my address
It’s been a mixture of changing my address online as well as changing it through the pharmacy
Or in person at the facility
Generally the process has been pretty good
“Most everything I ever do with the VA has been fairly well handled. It’s not something that I Have to continually pursue once I submit it. I must be lucky, because I know other people have troubles sometimes.”
Not something that I have to continually pursue once I submit it
I must be lucky -- I know other people have troubles
My disability has been raised three or four times
Now 100% disabled 
Always gone smoothly
My checks come religiously
Probably because it’s direct deposit
No real complaints
	* How did you keep your address up to date in school?
“I had two addresses which were known to the VA in different sections: the address where they sent my check was my school address, the address where they sent general correspondence was probably my family’s home address.”
Didn’t need to change it often
I went to school in KY and lived in OH so I had to make sure the check came to the school
* Why did you need to change your address?
* Where did you go to change it?
* How did you know the change went through?
When I was living oversees, I did one change of address through the embassy and they notified everyone that my address had changed
The state department took care of it
When I was oversees my address changed to the embassy address, but the embassy post office was complicated
Everything would come to me in a mail bag provided to me by the embassy
All mail address for the embassy is fake, but the post office would send it to a certain location and it would be forwarded to my real address
No one who sent me anything could send it directly to me unless I gave them the direct address with the permission of the embassy
M: what about prescriptions?
Someone dug into it one day and discovered that I was receiving medication overseas, and said that was illegal for some obscure reason
My medication stopped
I had to go back in and reestablish myself in another location in the US that would forward to the embassy mailbag
Now, when I order the prescriptions I order them online and I get an email notification that they’ve shipped and where they’re going
Whenever I go to another place I change my address at the post office through the card they have, and then I notify the VA at the same time when I go to get treatment
“Whenever I go to another place, I automatically change my address [at the post office]  through the little card they have, and then I notify the VA simultaneously or shortly thereafter when I go to get treatment. It somehow all gets updated. I think every time I go into the VA to see my primary care doctor they always go through it with me. So they know that my address, if it’s changed or not.”
It somehow all gets updated
Every time I go in to see my Primary Care doc they verify my address
M: prescriptions go to a PO box?
No, they go to my home
* How often do you change your address at the VA?
* What information do you change often?
- How do you know if VA has your most current address information?
	* How would you check that? 
- Why is it important to you for the VA to have up to date addresses?
	- for a lot of reasons: one if I get killed
		- have to be able to prove you were in uniform at some point to get burial benefits 
	- recently: one of the medications for high blood pressure was believed to have a carcinogen in it
		- they sent a recall notification in the mail
	- “I think it’s important for the VA especially to keep track of me. I want to get my disability check, it’s a portion of my income… I have to be able to make sure that I have a certain degree of liquidity every month so that I can pay my bills and save some money for my kids someday, and without the VA tracking me they probably wouldn’t know that I’ve moved and my checks would get lost. It’s just a whole nightmare of things. So it’s important in my case, since I’m disabled and rely on my income for my disability, that they track me.”
	- a lot of folks only know what benefits they’re receiving through a VA pamphlet in the mail
	- “I think it’s important that the VA maintain contact with every veteran, because that’s what they’re there for: supporting veterans.”
- Horror stories?
	- when I got out of college I was a veterans benefits counselor 
	- I heard a lot of stories about stuff being lost in the mail
		- might have been due to individual mental problems, but also might have been VA issues
	- a lot of folks don’t understand their benefits
	- need to be able to get information to people who need it
	- a lot of people who get VA benefits are not as much in need as people who aren’t getting benefits
	- the VA needs to be able to track people and give them information that will help them 
	- folks on the street don’t have the kind of information they need to get through hard times
	- the VA does the best they can to get information out
	- when stuff goes all online it excludes people who don’t have computer/internet access
- What contact information is unnecessary for the VA to have?

## Final questions
- If you had a magic wand and could change something about updating your information with VA, what would it be?
	- In this country, mail has always been a major part of everyone’s life. Even to the extent when the pony express would ride across the plains to deliver mail before the railroad came into existence. Often information delivered by mail is important to survive.
	- good veteran benefits counselors are rare -- most want to get you in and out of the office
	- “We have so many issues in this country as of today that we didn’t have a long time ago … Everything comes together in one big pile when you start trying to sort out the problems. You have to solve this problem before you can go over and work on this problem. I think the best thing that the VA can do is look outside the VA. What’s going on that keeps these people from being able to get what they need to get?”
	- There’s got to be some way to get the word out. Addresses are wonderful things if you have one, but what if you don’t have one? What if you’re changing homeless shelters each night?
- What haven’t I asked you that I should have?
	- “Addresses are a form of connecting… Without an address, you really don’t exist in this country. And I think that’s sad. You disappear.”
	- an address is important. What do you do about people who don’t have one?
- Any questions for me?

## Thank-You and Closing - 2 minutes

Well we really appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us today. Your feedback is so helpful to us as we continue to work on the site and make sure it really works for Veterans.

Thanks! Lastly, do you know any other Veterans, caregivers, or service members who might be willing to participate in a future user research session? 
    If Yes: Thank you! I'll have our team send you an email with a little blurb that you can pass along. 

Great, well thank you so much again, and enjoy the rest of your day!
