Uses mail order prescriptions and address change

# Conversation Guide for Address Management Research, April-May 2020

## Moderator logistics
*Use [#feedback-backchannel](https://dsva.slack.com/messages/C40B45NJK/details/) in Slack for real-time feedback from observers.*
*Before the session, send out the [observer instructions](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/vets.gov-team/blob/master/Practice%20Areas/Research/Research%20Process%20and%20Templates/observer-instructions.md) to your observers (Slackbot will do this for you if you type "observer instructions" into [#feedback-backchannel](https://dsva.slack.com/channels/feedback-backchannel)).*
*In the Attendees section, make sure everyone except the participant is on mute*
*In the Audio section, click the drop-down arrow and make sure "Play Entry/Exit Chimes" is unchecked*

*Check your [screensharing setup](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/vets.gov-team/blob/master/Practice%20Areas/remote-work/sharing-your-screen.md)*

*When the participant is ready, begin the session with the following intro*

## Intro - 5 minutes

Thanks for joining us today! My name is Lauryl Zenobi and I also have some colleagues on the line observing and taking notes. Today we're going to talk about your experiences managing your addresses and contact information across the VA. 

Before we start, a few things I want to mention:

- **This entire session should take about 45 minutes.** I want to be sure not to keep you much longer, so I may occasionally prompt you with the next question or topic.
- **In this session, we want to hear your honest opinions.** We are not testing your ability. We just want to improve these tools to better meet Veteran's needs. I will not be offended by any opinions you express, and I welcome your feedback.
- **If for any reason and at any time you want to stop the session, please let me know.** 
- **Are you comfortable if I record my screen and audio as we talk today?** We use the recordings to confirm that we have captured your opinions accurately. The recordings are destroyed after we complete analysis, and none of your comments will be attributed to you directly. 
    - If yes: **Once I start recording, I am going to confirm that you are ok with me recording this session once more.** 

*Start recording.*

- **I have started recording. I'd like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record my screen and the audio as we talk today?" 

## Warm-up Questions
Let’s start with a few warm-up questions.
- What VA websites do you use?
	- mainly eBenefits, but recently tried to get onto VA.gov and it’s funny because they’re kind of intertwined now -- they’ll bounce you off of one and onto another
	- I get along with eBenefits
		- from there I’ll go to MHV -- it’s like a stepping stone. I don’t know how to get to MHV without going to eBenefits first
	- I use secure messaging with my providers
- helpful during pandemic
	- I would keep track of anything Comp & Pen needed on eBenefits (finished all that now)
	- I go to MyPay through there now to see my military pay
- How do you normally interact with the VA? In person, online, over phone, etc?
	- either phone call, secure messaging (for primary care)
		- my PCP seems to like it; they’re prepared for appointments with a list of what’s on my mind
	- also use Blue Button to see my medical records, follow up with doctor
- What types of addresses have you given to the VA?
	- only the one address, my home
	- I’ve been at this location since 2007
 	* What does the VA use your address or addresses for?


## Updating addresses
- Tell me about the last time you updated your address or contact information with the VA 
* What was that process like?
That long ago, it was a mess
There was no clear-cut place to go
You had to do everything by mail
When I moved from another location in NY, I went to the VA and sat in front of a desk and they put me in their system
It’s a hassle as far as, dealing with all different facets (VA, DoD, etc)
It’s like you need a list, like when you get married and change your name
“It’s a hassle as far as, you know, so that’s the VA, I’ve gotta remember I have DoD to issue — they’re all different facets. It’s like you need a list. Like when you get married and have your name changed.”
* Why did you need to change your address?
* Where did you go to change it?
* How did you know the change went through?
I go on those sites (eBenefits) and it shows you your personal information
“I go on [eBenefits] and it actually says what your personal information is or who’s your personal contact. I check all that information. So if something gets dropped or is wrong, I tend to be proactive like that. Not all veterans are, I can tell you that.”
Until 6 months ago I didn’t know anything about VA.gov (when I did another similar interview)
There’s duplication between eBenefits and VA.gov
I get emails from VA.gov, like blogs and things. Not sure when I signed up
* How often do you change your address at the VA?
* What information do you change often?
I had a name change in 2014, that would have been a significant one
If we did snowbirding, if phone number changes
M: What would that process be?
“I would go to the eBenefit page. I honestly don’t know if I’m supposed to be doing it from there or the VA.gov. I don’t even know if they merged, truthfully. That would be something I would have to verify.”
“Somehow it would have to be known that it’s temporary or part-time, so I’d have to make that clear. I’d have to look and see how that would be done. ‘From this period to this period, please contact me.’”
I usually use my cellphone, so they can always get ahold of me regardless
I’m pretty well set. I’m not looking forward to making more changes if something happens to my husband or something
Because of COVID we’ve been making plans in case anything happens to either one of us
- How do you know if VA has your most current address information?
	* How would you check that? 
- Why is it important to you for the VA to have up to date addresses?
	- benefits
	- “It’s important for them to be able to contact me as well as me being able to contact them. These are benefits, and I need to know my entitlements, or if anything’s changed. If the rules have changed…. You’ve gotta keep up — it’s important for me to know, it’s important for them to know where we are, so we can get our benefits.” 
		- if anything changes, for example my dental benefits changed recently
	- it’s important for them to know where we are so we can get our benefits
- What contact information is unnecessary for the VA to have?
	- I can’t think of anything that I have a problem with them having

## Final questions
- If you had a magic wand and could change something about updating your information with VA, what would it be?
	- the one thing I don’t quite understand is why there’s these two different sites? Why have eBenefits if you can get everything done on VA.gov?
	- they should be consolidated to make it less confusing
	- I guess on eBenefits I can access DoD things which I can’t get on VA.gov
	- I’ll troll around to see what one has that the other doesn’t
	- having the same information in two places feels redundant 
- What haven’t I asked you that I should have?
	- “What would happen if the electronics went down? Is there a hard copy anywhere? Or are we so dependent on it. … The world’s pretty crazy right now. What happens if we went back to paper? Could they find us? Do we even exist?”
	- example: with the stimulus, it’s going to people who are deceased
	- “It’s not like one-stop shopping. You have to go through processes. But I guess I’ve been doing it long enough that I kind of know my way around.”
- Any questions for me? 

## Thank-You and Closing - 2 minutes

Well we really appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us today. Your feedback is so helpful to us as we continue to work on the site and make sure it really works for Veterans.

Thanks! Lastly, do you know any other Veterans, caregivers, or service members who might be willing to participate in a future user research session? 
    If Yes: Thank you! I'll have our team send you an email with a little blurb that you can pass along. 

Great, well thank you so much again, and enjoy the rest of your day!

