Uses mail order prescriptions

# Conversation Guide for Address Management Research, April-May 2020

## Moderator logistics
*Use [#feedback-backchannel](https://dsva.slack.com/messages/C40B45NJK/details/) in Slack for real-time feedback from observers.*
*Before the session, send out the [observer instructions](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/vets.gov-team/blob/master/Practice%20Areas/Research/Research%20Process%20and%20Templates/observer-instructions.md) to your observers (Slackbot will do this for you if you type "observer instructions" into [#feedback-backchannel](https://dsva.slack.com/channels/feedback-backchannel)).*
*In the Attendees section, make sure everyone except the participant is on mute*
*In the Audio section, click the drop-down arrow and make sure "Play Entry/Exit Chimes" is unchecked*

*Check your [screensharing setup](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/vets.gov-team/blob/master/Practice%20Areas/remote-work/sharing-your-screen.md)*

*When the participant is ready, begin the session with the following intro*

## Intro - 5 minutes

Thanks for joining us today! My name is Lauryl Zenobi and I also have some colleagues on the line observing and taking notes. Today we're going to talk about your experiences managing your addresses and contact information across the VA. 

Before we start, a few things I want to mention:

- **This entire session should take about 45 minutes.** I want to be sure not to keep you much longer, so I may occasionally prompt you with the next question or topic.
- **In this session, we want to hear your honest opinions.** We are not testing your ability. We just want to improve these tools to better meet Veteran's needs. I will not be offended by any opinions you express, and I welcome your feedback.
- **If for any reason and at any time you want to stop the session, please let me know.** 
- **Are you comfortable if I record my screen and audio as we talk today?** We use the recordings to confirm that we have captured your opinions accurately. The recordings are destroyed after we complete analysis, and none of your comments will be attributed to you directly. 
    - If yes: **Once I start recording, I am going to confirm that you are ok with me recording this session once more.** 

*Start recording.*

- **I have started recording. I'd like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record my screen and the audio as we talk today?" 

## Warm-up Questions
Let’s start with a few warm-up questions.
- What VA websites do you use?
	- VA.gov
		- for work (?) as well as for outside research for points of contact who call me for references who don’t know the proper process to get into the system
	- MHV
		- prescription renewal, appointments, etc
- How do you normally interact with the VA? In person, online, over phone, etc?
	- I’m a VA employee, so usually on the phone or virtually
	- I work from home
- What types of addresses have you given to the VA?
	- home address
	- dad as point of contact and his address (I think)
	- insurance info (I have non-VA insurance)
	- combat status
 	* What does the VA use your address or addresses for?
Typically to mail appointment letters, which I wish they would stop doing -- if they emailed me it would be easier
Emergency contact if something happens on station, like COVID-19 updates I’m getting via text message (both as a patient and as staff)
Mailing prescriptions


## Updating addresses
- Tell me about the last time you updated your address or contact information with the VA 
* What was that process of renewing prescriptions like?
Log into MHV
Tab for prescriptions
Check box of scripts I need renewed, provided they’re current
After submit, they arrive in 5-10 days
If they’re not current, I use secure messaging to request a renewal and they typically process that for me
M: How do you know where they’ll be mailed to?
My contact information is in MHV, and is also in the hospital that I use
* Why did you need to change your address?
* Where did you go to change it?
I would call the facility
I haven’t done any address changes online
I’ve only moved once in 10 years and at that time I was on the station so I just walked down the hall
They do have the ability at the facility to edit the information on the screen [kiosk updates]
* How did you know the change went through?
I don’t think I got any confirmation [from the kiosk update]
I don’t remember getting any information/letter saying it was updated
* How often do you change your address at the VA?
* What information do you change often?
On the kiosk, typically a phone number, my point of contact to my dad (that was within the last six months)
Insurance info is an option but I haven’t had to do that
- How do you know if VA has your most current address information?
	- I validated it when I check in [for an appointment] on the kiosk
	* How would you check that? 
- Why is it important to you for the VA to have up to date addresses?
	- I don’t receive monetary benefits, but that would be important
	- appointment notices
	- I know from being on the inside of hospitals that it matters for their headcount and how they get funding
		- encatchment: demographic area -- my facility is responsible for 9 counties and they do a lot of demographic analysis for services
		- in sending me out into the community they can use demographic information that comes from patients’ addresses
- Any issues with prescriptions?
	- Not typically
	- on MHV there’s a pharmacy section with prescriptions tab, track delivery link
	- info at the top there’s a block that says “your prescriptions have been mailed to the address in your VA file, which may be different from the address in your MHV account”
		- “So they’re using the actual on-file record at the facility. So I wouldn’t be able to update, at least I’m not aware that I would be able to update that myself through any of those websites. … I’d have to make a phone call. I can see inside MyHealtheVet on my profile what address is there but I wouldn’t know if it was different from what they had on file. Hence it’s probably why they have a note in there.”
- I don’t think I could update that file myself through any of these websites
		- I’d have to make a phone call to check if they’re the same
		- I can see what my address is on MHV but I wouldn’t know if it’s different from what they have on file
	- it hasn’t caused any issues for me but I’m sure it would if I were a snowbird
	- as an employee I’ve heard of a lot of issues but I haven’t dealt with them directly -- usually just put folks in contact with the person who can fix it
		- typically: prescription aren’t arriving on time or went to the wrong address
	- “It would be cool if I could update my own information online. Although there’s a fraud component there. But it could be an option. For me it would be easier then, if I decided to travel or if I went away for a month, I could divert my information and my mail that’s snail mail or prescription to that location, versus having it come here and sitting in my mailbox until I get back or sitting in the post office until I get back. It would be more of a convenience factor.”
- What contact information is unnecessary for the VA to have?

## Final questions
- If you had a magic wand and could change something about updating your information with VA, what would it be?
	- “I would like the ability to be able to do it online. But I know there’s a security component there that could be an issue.”
	- “If they could email me information versus mailing me information. Because typically I get multiple notices on appointments. My individual frustration is I live two miles from my facility and it’s like, just send me the email. I’ll be good. Don’t waste the postage.”
	- “I’m kind of the in-between age where I’m okay with getting emails, where folks that are the generation before me not so much, and the guys behind me are much better with the technology. … And if I could make that selection online that would be fabulous.”
	- If I could make that selection online [of whether I receive email or snail mail updates] that would be fabulous
	- M: what would security concerns be?
		- “If you’re allowing people to change their information online, who’s to know that it’s actually the person that’s actually changing the address?”
		- I just watched some fraud cases go through of some caregivers diverting benefit checks
		- I’d be more concerned from a financial standpoint, like direct deposit more so than just someone taking my address, even though it’s technically PII
- What haven’t I asked you that I should have?
	- I think we covered it
	- “The online option would be nice. And the options to either select or unselect electronic billing and those kinds of things.”
- Any questions for me?

## Thank-You and Closing - 2 minutes

Well we really appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us today. Your feedback is so helpful to us as we continue to work on the site and make sure it really works for Veterans.

Thanks! Lastly, do you know any other Veterans, caregivers, or service members who might be willing to participate in a future user research session? 
    If Yes: Thank you! I'll have our team send you an email with a little blurb that you can pass along. 

Great, well thank you so much again, and enjoy the rest of your day!
