Used to Change address

# Conversation Guide for Address Management Research, April-May 2020

## Moderator logistics
*Use [#feedback-backchannel](https://dsva.slack.com/messages/C40B45NJK/details/) in Slack for real-time feedback from observers.*
*Before the session, send out the [observer instructions](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/vets.gov-team/blob/master/Practice%20Areas/Research/Research%20Process%20and%20Templates/observer-instructions.md) to your observers (Slackbot will do this for you if you type "observer instructions" into [#feedback-backchannel](https://dsva.slack.com/channels/feedback-backchannel)).*
*In the Attendees section, make sure everyone except the participant is on mute*
*In the Audio section, click the drop-down arrow and make sure "Play Entry/Exit Chimes" is unchecked*

*Check your [screensharing setup](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/vets.gov-team/blob/master/Practice%20Areas/remote-work/sharing-your-screen.md)*

*When the participant is ready, begin the session with the following intro*

## Intro - 5 minutes

Thanks for joining us today! My name is Lauryl Zenobi and I also have some colleagues on the line observing and taking notes. Today we're going to talk about your experiences managing your addresses and contact information across the VA. 

Before we start, a few things I want to mention:

- **This entire session should take about 45 minutes.** I want to be sure not to keep you much longer, so I may occasionally prompt you with the next question or topic.
- **In this session, we want to hear your honest opinions.** We are not testing your ability. We just want to improve these tools to better meet Veteran's needs. I will not be offended by any opinions you express, and I welcome your feedback.
- **If for any reason and at any time you want to stop the session, please let me know.** 
- **Are you comfortable if I record my screen and audio as we talk today?** We use the recordings to confirm that we have captured your opinions accurately. The recordings are destroyed after we complete analysis, and none of your comments will be attributed to you directly. 
    - If yes: **Once I start recording, I am going to confirm that you are ok with me recording this session once more.** 

*Start recording.*

- **I have started recording. I'd like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record my screen and the audio as we talk today?" 

## Warm-up Questions
Let’s start with a few warm-up questions.
- What VA websites do you use?
	- eBenefits has pretty much everything I need
		- printing disability letter
	- DFAS for pay issues, 1099R
	- I have access to VSOs through the Nevada veterans department, they can pull stuff up for me
- How do you normally interact with the VA? In person, online, over phone, etc?
	- the Nevada veteran’s department (state organization) has offices with VSOs at the VA so I interact in person
	- I’ve never had bad experiences personally
	- “You’ve just got to be persistent. They’re a government agency; how fast does the government work? It works at its own pace.”
	- I’ve had good luck with working through client issues
- What types of addresses have you given to the VA?
 	* What does the VA use your address or addresses for?


## Updating addresses
- Tell me about the last time you updated your address or contact information with the VA 
* What was that process like?
It is kind of draconian
You should be able to change it online without mailing in a paper form
On the site they want you first to call them, and then ‘be prepared to have your claim number or social security number.’ That’s okay if you already have a claim, but it directs you to submit a claim just to change your address.
“Why are we doing it like that [mailing in a paper form to change your address]? I thought we were moving toward a paperless society, and this is not paperless.”
It’s hard enough to get on eBenefits already
Some of my older clients don’t even understand the process of how to get into it
People get frustrated with the system
“This is just too hard.” [specifically on eBenefits]
I can change my email address on eBenefits, why can’t I do my address?
“I think our technology’s not caught up on this, on the VA change of address. There’s an easier way to do this.”
Speaking as service officer: A lot of people are computer illiterate and this just makes it harder. They go in thinking they can do everything they need to do, and then it tells you to change your address manually.
I have to teach my client how to download the form
If they’ve already verified your identification and know you are who you are, you should be able to make the changes you need
Change of address should be really simple
* Why did you need to change your address?
* Where did you go to change it?
eBenefits -- have to search for it, very complicated and confusing
* How did you know the change went through?
I always encourage my clients to put a tracer on it -- use certified mail. That way you can go into the postal system and track it [to make sure it is delivered successfully to the VA]
* How often do you change your address at the VA?
* What information do you change often?
- How do you know if VA has your most current address information?
	* How would you check that? 
- Why is it important to you for the VA to have up to date addresses?
	- “If you had a claim pending, and the outcome of that claim comes back, if you don’t get it and you’re supposed to sign off on certain paperwork and send it back to them, you’re not going to get your claim. It’s not going to be processed.”
	- people call me when they stop receiving mail and I have to do the research; often it’s because people haven’t updated their information after moving
	- “My appeal was two and a half years before I finally got in front of a board. … it’s really important that you to respond [if you have a claim or appeal pending] — let’s say you missed a board. In my case if I had missed that board it would have thrown it back in rotation and it might have been another two years before I saw it again.”
	- if the person [in the process of appeal] didn’t get the mail notice that there’s a board, it could add years to the process
- Risks in update delay?
	- With the covid furloughs, this is going to create paperwork delays due to manual processing -- that wouldn’t happen if it were automated
	- checks missing
	- appeals delayed
- What contact information is unnecessary for the VA to have?

## Final questions
- If you had a magic wand and could change something about updating your information with VA, what would it be?
	- “This process — [if I could change anything] there would be no more mailing change of address forms in, having a form 2572 that you have to send in to the VA to change an address. You should be able to do it right online. That would be one of the first things I would do. This is just, what century did this come out of, this process? This is really old school.”
- What haven’t I asked you that I should have?
- Any questions for me? 

## Thank-You and Closing - 2 minutes

Well we really appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us today. Your feedback is so helpful to us as we continue to work on the site and make sure it really works for Veterans.

Thanks! Lastly, do you know any other Veterans, caregivers, or service members who might be willing to participate in a future user research session? 
    If Yes: Thank you! I'll have our team send you an email with a little blurb that you can pass along. 

Great, well thank you so much again, and enjoy the rest of your day!
