---
layout: page-breadcrumbs.html
title: C-123 Aircraft
template: detail-page
order: 1
---

<div class="va-introtext">

If you flew on—or worked with—C-123 aircraft in Vietnam or other locations, you may have had contact with Agent Orange. The U.S. military used this toxic chemical to clear trees and plants during the Vietnam War. C-123 aircraft sprayed Agent Orange during the war, and the planes still had traces of the chemical in them afterward while they were being used, up until 1986. Find out if you can get disability compensation or benefits for illnesses believed to be caused by contact with Agent Orange.

</div>

<div class="feature" markdown="1">

### Can I get disability benefits from VA?

<br>

#### For Active-Duty Servicemembers

You may be able to get disability benefits if you have an illness believed to be caused by contact with Agent Orange and both of the below descriptions are true for you.

**Both of these must be true:**

- You served in a regular Air Force unit location where a C-123 aircraft with traces of Agent Orange was assigned, **and**
- Your flight, ground, or medical duties put you in regular and repeated contact with C-123 aircraft that had traces of Agent Orange

[See a list of Agent Orange-related illnesses](/disability-benefits/conditions/exposure-to-hazardous-materials/agent-orange/diseases/).

Check our list of military units and Air Force Specialty codes to see if your unit had contact with affected C-123 aircraft. <br>
[View the list of codes](https://www.benefits.va.gov/compensation/docs/AO_C123_AFSpecialityCodesUnits.pdf).

<br>

#### For Reservists

You may be able to get disability benefits if you have an illness believed to be caused by Agent Orange and you were assigned to flight, ground, or medical crew duties at one of the below locations.

**You must have been assigned to one of these locations:**

- **Lockbourne/Rickenbacker Air Force Base** in Ohio, 1969-1986 (906th and 907th Tactical Air Groups or 355th and 356th Tactical Airlift Squadrons), **or**
- **Westover Air Force Base** in Massachusetts, 1972-1982 (731st Tactical Air Squadron and 74th Aeromedical Evacuation Squadron, or 901st Organizational Maintenance Squadron), **or**
- **Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania International Airport**, 1972-1982 (758th Airlift Squadron)

[See a list of Agent Orange-related illnesses](/disability-benefits/conditions/exposure-to-hazardous-materials/agent-orange/diseases/).


Check our list of military units and Air Force Specialty codes to see if your unit had contact with affected C-123 aircraft. <br>
[View the list of codes]( https://www.benefits.va.gov/compensation/docs/AO_C123_AFSpecialityCodesUnits.pdf).

</div>

### How to Apply for Benefits Online

This is the fastest way to file a claim and get your decision:

<ol class="process" markdown="0">
<li class="process-step list-one" markdown="1">

[Go to eBenefits](https://www.ebenefits.va.gov/ebenefits/homepage).

</li>

<li class="process-step list-two" markdown="1">

Select a disability benefit.

</li>

<li class="process-step list-three" markdown="1">

Type C-123 next to the disability in the text box.

</li>

<li class="process-step list-four" markdown="0">

<p>Upload any supporting documents along with your online application, including:</p>

<div class="feature">

<ul>
  <li>Discharge or separation papers (DD214 or other separation documents)</li>
  <li>USAF Form 2096 (unit where you were assigned at the time of the training action)</li>
  <li>USAF Form 5 (aircraft flight duties)</li>
  <li>USAF Form 781 (aircraft maintenance duties)</li>
  <li>Dependency records (marriage certificate and children’s birth certificates)</li>
  <li>Medical evidence (like a doctor’s report or medical test results)</li>
</ul>

</div>

</li>
</ol>

### How to Apply for Benefits by Mail or Fax

<ol class="process" markdown="0">
<li class="process-step list-one" markdown="1">

Fill out the Application for Disability Compensation and Related Compensation Benefits (VA Form 21-526EZ). <br>
[Download VA Form 21-526EZ](https://www.vba.va.gov/pubs/forms/VBA-21-526EZ-ARE.pdf).

</li>

<li class="process-step list-two" markdown="0">

Fill out the printed form—and make sure you include each C-123-related disability in Section I, Block 13 on the form.

</li>

<li class="process-step list-three wow fadeIn animated" markdown="0">

<p>Send any supporting documents along with your application, including:</p>

<div class="feature">

<ul>
  <li>Discharge or separation papers (DD214 or other separation documents)</li>
  <li>USAF Form 2096 (unit where you were assigned at the time of the training action)</li>
  <li>USAF Form 5 (aircraft flight duties)</li>
  <li>USAF Form 781 (aircraft maintenance duties)</li>
  <li>Dependency records (marriage certificate and children’s birth certificates)</li>
  <li>Medical evidence (like a doctor’s report or medical test results)</li>
</ul>

</div>

</li>

<li class="process-step list-three" markdown="0">

<p>Mail your claim with supporting documents to:</p>
<p class='va-address-block'>Department of Veterans Affairs Claims Intake Center<br/>
Attention: C-123 Claims<br />
PO Box 5088<br />
Janesville, WI<br />
53547-5088</p>

<p>Or, fax your claim with supporting documents to:<br />
608-373-6694</p>

</li>

</ol>

### Need help?
Call the C-123 Hotline: <a href="tel:+18007498387">1-800-749-8387</a><br>
<a href="mailto:VSCC123.VAVBASPL@va.gov">Email the St. Paul Regional Benefit Office</a>

Want to connect with a trained professional who can help you with VA-related claims? <br>
[Get help filing your claim](/disability-benefits/apply/help/).

### Get more information
Want to know more about C-123 aircraft Agent Orange claims? <br>
[Download our C-123 Aircraft Agent Orange Exposure Claims fact sheet](https://www.benefits.va.gov/benefits/factsheets/serviceconnected/AO_c123.pdf).
