## Dom/CLC Prototype feedback

### PAO/SME Questions

- We want to create a template to standardize page content - what makes sense to standardize?
  - Thought the current section heading were good, suggested adding a transportation/lodging section to the accordions under "Prepare for Your Visit".
- Is there a distinction between regular business hours, and 24/7 health care hours?
  - Yes, in that administrative coordinators, and other administrators, are accessible during regular business hours. The main domiciliary phone, and health services, are accessible 24/7. Maybe make the labeling more clear so non-resident Veterans don't think they have access.
- Are there specific phone numbers for admissions, vs health care personel, etc.?
  - Yes, and distinguishing between admissions coordinator contact and regular contact info may be helpful.
- Is it feasible for you to create/edit this page layout?
  - Eastern CO has a webmaster that updates everything, so if it's available in Drupal, it's feasible.
- For different kinds of programs (dom PTSD, dom RRTP, etc.) does one overall program page make sense?
  - Dr. Rabenhorst-Bell suggested that Vets don't need the distinction between the various types of MHRRTP, not in the high-level information this program page is intended to convey.

### PAO/SME Interview (9/21/21)

**SME:** Brandy Morrison (brandy.morrison2@va.gov), Eastern CO PAO

**SME:** Dr. Mandy Rabenhorst-Bell (mandy.rabenhorst-bell@va.gov), Psychologist, Eastern CO Domiciliaries

- [Mandy] **If it's going to be consistant across all VA, then it makes sense to not reinvent definitions or descriptions, but borrow what's there.** [Referened definitions and info contained in VHA publication [1162.02 - Mental Health Residential Rehabilitation Program](https://www.va.gov/vhapublications/publications.cfm?Pub=1). Also suggested speaking to national VA leadership for MHRRTP: Deputy Director Kimberly Coleman-Prior, Deputy Director Jennifer Burden].
- [Mandy - after hearing our rational for using the program page pattern] I think that makes a lot of sense, I would be worried that having it on the locations page would encourage people just to show up, as if it was a location that folks can have same-day access, and that's just not the case with doms.
- [Mandy] Yeah those are great [referencing program page sections]. **I had a chance to talk to our residential recovery workgroup, and one of the suggestions they had too was the possibility of including Veteran testimonials. Whether that was consistent across all VA RRTP or unique and therefore optional to each program.** On the national center for PTSD some of their front-facing material is clips of Veterans sharing about their experience with treatment, or their symptoms of PTSD, or getting families involved in their care. **There could be some benefit to hearing from Vets who've gone through an RRTP - what they liked about it, whether they found it beneficial, or whether they'd recommend it, either in general or program specific.**
- [Brandy] I just want to be clear too, this is Drupal and there's not a lot of customization. We can change word content, but as far as putting images, there's a lot of restrictions in Drupal that we don't have with our current web platform.
- [Nick - I explain that the intent is just to edit content, and not really add new elements or change page structure]
- [Mandy] I think that makes sense, if Veterans are looking at the difference between the program in Denver and the one in Salt Lake city, that they would know where to look on the page for the information [as in, the page layout is standardized and doesn't change much between locations/programs].
- [Michelle - asked about testimonial: should they be video, quotes, links to video, etc. if the page can't display it directly]
- [Mandy] I think either could be useful - just words reminds me of checking out a restaurant [like a google review], you might want read the reviews. The testimonial wouldn't necessarily have to be Veterans if you're concerned about privacy, and that could be a longer term project. Just an idea.
- [Brandy] A lot of user who've used the previous platform aren't excited because Drupal just doesn't allow for some of the things that we previously had. I think the consistancy is key, because right now when you go to one VA website you've gone to one VA website and it's the same. **I do think that having the ability to put a video in, over a longer period of time of testimonials, that highlight the program itself is a way to stand out on the page from just text. For future planning, a video introduction would be great - videos of the site, snippets of what people got out of the program, etc. Just something to break up the monotany of words.**
- [Michelle] Video can be challenging on the page because of accessibility, but we have done things like link to Youtube videos or somewhere there's an approved video. Vet Centers has a couple things like that.
- [Mandy] **Another thing for future thinking, there might be some programs that have results-type data they might be at liberty to share. Sort of like what evidence do they have that shows that the program works. Every residential program is required to engage in evidence-based care, and to demonstrate the effectiveness of their program. It isn't always something that can be disseminated, but in the future there might be a way to incorporate that outcome data. I like that section "care provided" so you're getting into what a Vet can expect.**
- [Nick] Do either of you update the site, and does this look feasible to do, if you had to add these kinds of sections?
- [Brandy] I had done the training, we transitioned to Drupal on 9/27. We have a webmaster who does all of our updating. Mandy would request the changes, then upload a ticket to their work order system. **I did articulate in my email that "make an appointment" [referencing blue system-level buttons] will take them back to the other page, but since these aren't make an appointment services having these buttons there can be a little misleading and confusing.** A lot of our patients are an older demographic - I don't want to confuse people. 
- [Nick - explains continuing IA feedback, and that we may not need to include blue system-level buttons]
- [Mandy] **Yeah I wouldn't want someone to think that if they click "register for care" that they have applied to the program.** 
- [Michelle] Is there a call to action that would be better or more relevant in place of those buttons?
- [Brandy] All of these are referral based for mental health, typically Mandy?
- [Mandy] Yeah typically, not really for the residential level of care. We're not usually the first stop for someone.
- [Brandy] **If there's a requirement for a call to action, maybe "talk to your mental health care professional now" or something along those lines, and it can foward them to the mental health queue. Their first step is typically a consult with their mental health provider. "Get mental health now" or similar.** I feel like it's a very personal discussion, who's a better candidate for residential services vs who still needs more outpatient care. I agree with Mandy because [doms] are not the first point of contact. 
- [Nick - are there different phone numbers to call?]
- [Mandy] **I was going to suggest adding a different phone number - usually the domiciliary phone would get you to the nurse's station or to the administrative person answering the phone, which is not the same as the admissions coordinator. So maybe listing both of those numbers is worth having.** If you've got a loved one in the program and you want to figure out how to get ahold of the program, even 24 hrs a day, that's a great phone number for that ["domiciliary phone"].
- [Michell] What would you label a number for non-residents to call to speak to a resident in the program?
- [Mandy] Just what you have there, **domiciliary phone, makes sense to me. It functions as a front-desk phone, in a way. What will happen though, if a loved one has someone in the program, unless they have a written release of information, they're going to hear that we can't confirm or deny that their loved on is in the pgoram. But they [non-residents] can share information or leave a message in emergency situations. Every Veteran in the program can use that number as well. The admissions coordinator line would not be available 24 hrs, it's just someone's office phone.**
- [Nick - asks about distinction between regular hours and health services hours; does it make sense to distinguish between these kinds of hours?]
- [Mandy] Yeah that's a good question. The regular hours that makes sense - **for health services hours I wonder if there's a way to specify that they're for current residents. So that it's not confusing that health services are not available to any Veterans - for enrolled residents, or something like that.** 
- [Nick - explaining context sentance for hours of operation; we could change labeling as well]
- [Mandy] **I would do both, what you have written is great, but I think people's eyes often skip over that to the bold. Changing the labels can help remind people who skipped the context paragraph.** I also liked have you have the vistor's hours and information below in the "prepare for your visit" section. We don't want to encourage random visitors or people just dropping by unannounced. We can clarify in this section - visiting really needs to be an appointment.
- [Nick - explaining desire to standardize prepare for your visit accordions]
- [Mandy] We would sometimes have folks admitting to the program a day or so after they arrive in the area - usually we've arranged some sort of lodging. As a local program **I would want to put that under transportation services and schedules. Lodging and schedules, something like that.** [Michelle: maybe combine them?] Yeah, like here's how you get from the airport to get your lodging voucher for your hotel, and then how to get from the hotel to the program (for example). We could make it clear that we're talking about lodging in advance of an admission, not lodging people at hotels as a regular thing.
- [Michelle - do non-fammiliy visitors need to be different or distinguised? Does the single accordion make sense?]
- [Mandy] I think the single accordion makes sense, within there each program would be able to specify.
- [Nick - asked about page title/description being adequate for describing differences between dom types]
- [Mandy] I think it's confusing even for those of us within the system. **There's a big umbrella of Mental Health Residential Rehabilitation Treatment Programs - underneath that there are 24/7 staffed facilities like domiciliaries, then there are transitional redisdence facilities, and then within doms there are different types:** for homeless care, for PTSD (generally referred to as a PTSD RRTP). Theyr'e all under the MHRRTP directive, and then domiciliaries are under that. I don't think it's particularly helpful to get into all that, **I don't think Vets are really going to benefit from that kind of distinction in structure. The two get used almost interchangeably**, and it might be that you have domiciliary/MHRRTP care, and you can think about it differently, according to how they are referred to in different regions. We traditionally have referred to our "domiciliary care for homeless Veterans", our Valor point facility, and our PTSD RRTP, our Denver domiciliary facility. Even though that's a little bit of a false distinction. 
- [Michelle] Is there a category that covers all of them, that's Veteran-friendly language enough?]
- [Mandy] **The MHRRTP does, I think that's the most recovery-oriented language. That is the broadest umbrella, that gets both your doms and other transitional residency programs.** In some ways "domiciliary" is an older term, it's a little more antiquated, I'm surprised that's the one we go with. The homeless programs are more often referred to as doms, and then RRTPs are the more intensive treatment programs. I don't know if that's consistent enough across VA regions.
