products/ask-va/data/Usage data.md, before:

# Ask VA Usage Data Analysis for Research and Design

## Summary

- [Template](#template-topic)
- [Unauthenticated Inquiries](#unauthenticated-inquiries)
- [Mobile Usage](#mobile-usage)




## Template - Topic
### Question to be answered
_Date added:_

**Description:** 

#### Table title
_Date of Data:_
|Column 1|Column 2|Column 3|Column 4|
|:--|:--|:--|:--|
|:--|:--|:--|:--|

[image of chart]
  
Data Source: [Link]()


## Unauthenticated Inquiries
### How many inquiries are submitted without the user logging in?
_Date added: January 27, 2026_

**Average number of unauthenticated inquiries per month:** 515
_Date of Data: July 2025-December 2025_

  
Data Source: [Custom CRM Report(1-27-2026)](https://dvagov-my.sharepoint.com/:x:/r/personal/cameron_johnson4_va_gov/Documents/Microsoft%20Teams%20Chat%20Files/Danielle%20inquiry%201-27-2026.xlsx?d=w89c7b11ad59b4b7fa8b85445bcc2dc74&csf=1&web=1&e=g48n0x)


## Mobile usage
### How many users are using Ask VA through a mobile device?
_Date added: January 27, 2026_

**Description:** This is just a baseline understanding needed when designing for web experiences. What is the breakdown of web, mobile, and tablet users.

#### Active Ask VA Users by Device Type
_Date of Data: July-December 2025_
|Total|Desktop Users|Mobile Users|Tablet Users|
|:--|:--|:--|:--|
|799,269|442,232 (55%)|348,094 (44%)|9,404 (1%)|

<img width="1021" height="461" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/5fa2d4fd-ca07-47b4-8393-4d3738d937f8" />

Data Source: [Google Analytics](https://analytics.google.com/analytics/web/#/a50123418p419143770/reports/explorer?params=_u..nav%3Dmaui%26_r.explorerCard..filterTerm%3Dask-va%26_r.explorerCard..startRow%3D0%26_r..dataFilters%3D%5B%5D%26_u.comparisonOption%3Ddisabled%26_u.date00%3D20250601%26_u.date01%3D20251231&collectionId=8429185582&r=all-pages-and-screens&ruid=D4F7103F-DEA1-4A09-B066-EE554BF6F5F0)


## Business and Personal Submitters
### How many submitters have submitted both business and personal inquiries?
_Date added: January 13, 2026_

**Description:** We needed to understand how many people _should_ see both the Business and Personal tabs on the Inbox. 

#### Avg Count of Inquiries Submitted
_Date of Data: July 1, 2025 - January 13, 2026_
| --|Total|Personal User|Business User|Submitted both Personal and Business|
|:--|:--|:--|:--|:--|
|Number of Unique Submitters|224,056|219,743 (98%)|4,908 (2%)|595 (0.3%)|
|Avg Count of Inquiries Per Submitter|2|1|15|28|
  
Data Source: [Custom CRM Report(1-13-2026)]()

Commit message:

Enhance Usage data with business inquiries details
Updated usage data with new sections on business roles and categories, including data sources and inquiry counts.

products/ask-va/data/Usage data.md, after:

# Ask VA Usage Data Analysis for Research and Design

## Summary

- [Template](#template-topic)
- [Unauthenticated Inquiries](#unauthenticated-inquiries)
- [Mobile Usage](#mobile-usage)
- [Business and Personal Submitters](#business-and-personal-submitters)
- [Business Roles and Categories](#business-roles-and-categories)


## Template - Topic
### Question to be answered
_Date added:_

**Description:** 

#### Table title
_Date of Data:_
|Column 1|Column 2|Column 3|Column 4|
|:--|:--|:--|:--|
|:--|:--|:--|:--|

[image of chart]
  
Data Source: [Link]()


## Unauthenticated Inquiries
### How many inquiries are submitted without the user logging in?
_Date added: January 27, 2026_

**Average number of unauthenticated inquiries per month:** 515
_Date of Data: July 2025-December 2025_

  
Data Source: [Custom CRM Report(1-27-2026)](https://dvagov-my.sharepoint.com/:x:/r/personal/cameron_johnson4_va_gov/Documents/Microsoft%20Teams%20Chat%20Files/Danielle%20inquiry%201-27-2026.xlsx?d=w89c7b11ad59b4b7fa8b85445bcc2dc74&csf=1&web=1&e=g48n0x)


## Mobile usage
### How many users are using Ask VA through a mobile device?
_Date added: January 27, 2026_

**Description:** This is just a baseline understanding needed when designing for web experiences. What is the breakdown of web, mobile, and tablet users.

#### Active Ask VA Users by Device Type
_Date of Data: July-December 2025_
|Total|Desktop Users|Mobile Users|Tablet Users|
|:--|:--|:--|:--|
|799,269|442,232 (55%)|348,094 (44%)|9,404 (1%)|

<img width="1021" height="461" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/5fa2d4fd-ca07-47b4-8393-4d3738d937f8" />

Data Source: [Google Analytics](https://analytics.google.com/analytics/web/#/a50123418p419143770/reports/explorer?params=_u..nav%3Dmaui%26_r.explorerCard..filterTerm%3Dask-va%26_r.explorerCard..startRow%3D0%26_r..dataFilters%3D%5B%5D%26_u.comparisonOption%3Ddisabled%26_u.date00%3D20250601%26_u.date01%3D20251231&collectionId=8429185582&r=all-pages-and-screens&ruid=D4F7103F-DEA1-4A09-B066-EE554BF6F5F0)


## Business and Personal Submitters
### How many submitters have submitted both business and personal inquiries?
_Date added: January 13, 2026_

**Description:** We needed to understand how many people _should_ see both the Business and Personal tabs on the Inbox. 

#### Number of Unique Submitters and Inquiries Submitted
_Date of Data: July 1, 2025 - January 13, 2026_
| --|Total|Personal User|Business User|Submitted both Personal and Business|
|:--|:--|:--|:--|:--|
|Number of Unique Submitters|224,056|219,743 (98%)|4,908 (2%)|595 (0.3%)|
|Avg Count of Inquiries Per Submitter|2|1|15|28|
  
Data Source: [Custom CRM Report(1-13-2026)](https://dvagov.sharepoint.com/:x:/r/sites/AskVA/Shared%20Documents/General/AVA%20VA.gov%20Team/Research%20%26%20Design/Danielle%20Report%202026_01_13.xlsx?d=wf8c6d2ba02ff4e2bb4a74d53e22ab701&csf=1&web=1&e=cZ0Zr2)


## Business Roles and Categories
### What other categories are business users submitting questions about? Which categories and sub topics are they using?
_Date added: January 12, 2026_

**Description:** As we break apart the business and personal experiences, we wanted to understand which categories and topics applied to business users, especially outside of the education category.

#### Count of Business Inquiries by Category
_Date of Data: July-December 2025_
<img width="1697" height="520" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/1f908a4f-4fc6-46fe-a1bc-a1c3bc86bdc9" />

Data Source: [Custom CRM Report(1-12-2026)](https://dvagov.sharepoint.com/:x:/r/sites/AskVA/Shared%20Documents/General/AVA%20VA.gov%20Team/Research%20%26%20Design/Elena%20Report%202026_1_12.xlsx?d=w2ee85b309a4e430fa074426f06ad385f&csf=1&web=1&e=Of1gNu)

-----
## Still adding stuff from this [GitHub ticket](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/ask-va/issues/2087)
