# Notes: PACT Act Wizard Usability Testing

## Warm-up Questions - 5 minutes
Let’s start with a few questions... 

1. Veteran?
•	I am a veteran and a family member of a Veteran. My spouse is a Veteran.
What device are you using today? 
•	Laptop (Edge for Business Browser, 1160.1938.69 (office build).
1. Do you have any experience with VA health care? 
•	Yes, currently enrolled.
1. Do you get disability compensation from VA?
•	Yes
1. Are you familiar with the PACT Act?  
•	I’ve heard of it. I don’t know much. 
Zoom chat would be easier
## User Tasks

### Task 1: [Wayfinding] 
If you wanted to learn more about the PACT Act, what would you do?
•	I would go to Google and google it. (P6 searches PACT Act) and go to the VA.gov. Anytime I’m trying to find something of the VA, I go to the VA.gov. 
### Task 2: [Open prototype] 


### Task 3: [Go through questions in wizard]

*(RECORD all feedback:)*
- *Intro screen* 
•	Does this apply to you and give me more information on how to enroll. And if I was a surviving family member, I could click on that. But chances are if the Veteran wasn’t aware, neither is the family member. 
  
- *Service years*
•	I would go to continue. 1990 or later. I did serve in several of those, “ yes” to locations

- *Burn Pit questions* 
•	(P6 has registered for Burn Pit exposure but is already 100% disabled.) I have not heard anything from the registry. 
•	Assuming that I served in these locations, I may have had exposure. 

- *Agent Orange questions*

- *Radiation question*

- *Camp Lejeune question*


### Task 4: [Results screen--Lejeune or VA Benefit eligibility]
 
Please tell me about what you see here. 
•	Clicked on VA benefits. 
•	I don’t know if the PACT Act is any different from VA compensation. 
•	If you claimed it in the past but it wasn’t service connected and later it came back that it was, you can click here. 
What does this mean to you?

What would you do now?

  
### Task 5: [Results screen--You may be eligible]

Please tell me about what you see here. 

Why do you think you’re seeing this page? 

What does this page mean to you?

What might be unclear to you?

Could you tell me what "presumptive conditions" are?
•	(P6 read off the list)


If you saw this page based on the questions you just answered, **how confident are you that you could take action**? I’d like you to rate your confidence level.  

- On a scale from 1 to 7, where 1 is *Not at all confident* and 7 is *Extremely confident*, how confident are you that you could take action based on the information in this page?  
•	I would say 7 because I worked in healthcare. If I didn’t work in Healthcare, I would not know what to do. I understand the insurance and what is covered and not covered. 
Does your husband qualify? 
•	 No he does not qualify for VA, no healthcare, and no disability. He has not applied for the PACT Act. 
Would the PACT Act impact him? 
•	No, he was not exposed to burn pit. He was on a submarine. 

- Why? 

- What might that action be? 
•	At this point, I would see if any of these apply to me. If they did, I would ask the VA to reconsider and file a supplemental claim or if I had never applied, I would look at these various diagnoses and file a claim. 

  
 
## Post-Task Interview - 7 minutes

1. What worked *well* for you? 	
•	I think it's pretty easy to read and bolded. 
1. What was *unclear or didn't work well* for you?	
•	For me, there was nothing that was unclear. 
1. What would you like to *change or add*?	
•	I’m not sure why it’s taking up a quarter of the page. There's a lot of white space. A lot of blanks. 
1. Is there anything else that we haven't talked about that you think I should know?
•	Not that I could think of. 
