# Notes: PACT Act Wizard Usability Testing

## Warm-up Questions - 5 minutes
Let’s start with a few questions... 

1. Veteran?

1. What kind of device are you using today? 

1. Do you have any experience with VA health care? 

1. Do you get disability compensation from VA?

1. Are you familiar with the PACT Act?  



## User Tasks

### Task 1: [Wayfinding] 
If you wanted to learn more about the PACT Act, what would you do?

### Task 2: [Open prototype] 


### Task 3: [Go through questions in wizard]

*(RECORD all feedback:)*
- *Intro screen*
  
- *Service years*

- *Burn Pit questions* 
- *Agent Orange questions*
- *Radiation question*
- *Camp Lejeune question*


### Task 4: [Results screen--Lejeune or VA Benefit eligibility]
 
Please tell me about what you see here. 

What does this mean to you?

What would you do now?

  
### Task 5: [Results screen--You may be eligible]

Please tell me about what you see here. 

Why do you think you’re seeing this page? 

What does this page mean to you?

What might be unclear to you?

Could you tell me what "presumptive conditions" are?


If you saw this page based on the questions you just answered, **how confident are you that you could take action**? I’d like you to rate your confidence level.  

- On a scale from 1 to 7, where 1 is *Not at all confident* and 7 is *Extremely confident*, how confident are you that you could take action based on the information in this page? 

- Why? 

- What might that action be? 

  
 
## Post-Task Interview - 7 minutes

1. What worked *well* for you?
1. What was *unclear or didn't work well* for you?
1. What would you like to *change or add*?
1. Is there anything else that we haven't talked about that you think I should know? 

