# Notes: PACT Act Wizard Usability Testing

## Warm-up Questions - 5 minutes
Let’s start with a few questions... 

1.	Veteran?
•	Yes (veteran)

1.	What kind of device are you using today? 
•	iMac computer.

1.	Do you have any experience with VA health care? 
•	Zoom chat (to send URL) Yes.

1. Are you enrolled in benefits? 
Yes.

1.	Do you get disability compensation from VA?
•	Yes. 

1.	Are you familiar with the PACT Act?  
•	Yes. 
•	I didn’t intent to file. I talked to the Regional office and told not to file because I’m already at 100%.  I was told to wait until 10 years and try to file for PACT Act after that. 
•	At ten years the VA can’t look at your existing ratings. They can’t decrease after 10 years. 
•	I was helping someone to file and I had a question about it so I looked at on my personal computer and accidentally clicked "intent to file". 
•	One radar said to apply but I wouldn’t get any more money. I said, fine, but I wanted it listed on my file because I want it on my DIC. I want it on my death certificate because I want it to go to my soon to be spouse if I were to pass. 


## User Tasks

### Task 1: [Wayfinding] 
If you wanted to learn more about the PACT Act, what would you do?
•	I’d go to google and type in PACT Act department of VA and probably you tube bloggers because I’m more of a visual learner than reading. 

### Task 2: [Open prototype] 


### Task 3: [Go through questions in wizard]

*(RECORD all feedback:)*
- *Intro screen*
  It has information on what 
- *Service years*
•	1990 or later

- *Burn Pit questions* 
•	Yes I did serve in these locations.
- *Agent Orange questions*
•	
- *Radiation question*
•	
- *Camp Lejeune question*
•	


### Task 4: [Results screen--Lejeune or VA Benefit eligibility]
 
Please tell me about what you see here. 

What does this mean to you?

What would you do now?

  
### Task 5: [Results screen--You may be eligible]

Please tell me about what you see here. 
•	That I might be eligible for VA benefits, healthcare, based on the prior questions. Lists the list of exposure locations. 

Why do you think you’re seeing this page? 
•	Because of the answers to the previous page. 

What does this page mean to you?
•	Assume or presume that you have these conditions. 

What might be unclear to you?
•	It doesn’t have what conditions. It just states “we added conditions” It does say burn pit exposure. 
•	You don’t have to prove it if it says, like diabetes I can claim, I don’t have to do anything that this is caused because I was deployed in Iraq. What are the ones that I can claim?. Then, I would click “ learn what to do next”. 
•	You can file a claim online. Has conditions, and the Gulf war too. Clicked on + sign and going down the list. And the other Gulf War illnesses. 
•	A lot of the older Veterans are going to want to see the list of the conditions. Maybe have a link here to see the conditions. (Under what this means for you)
Could you tell me what "presumptive conditions" are?


If you saw this page based on the questions you just answered, **how confident are you that you could take action**? I’d like you to rate your confidence level.  

- On a scale from 1 to 7, where 1 is *Not at all confident* and 7 is *Extremely confident*, how confident are you that you could take action based on the information in this page? 
•	Probably a 6.

- Why? 
•	Because I’ve been told by my doctor and diagnosed me with Fibromyalgia but I don’t know where in my records he put it. 
•	I usually hit the blue button on My Healthy Vet to see on my problem list. I don’t remember seeing it. I don’t remember. I’d have to look again. 

- What might that action be? 
•	I’d file a disability compensation claim. I would go to file disability compensation claim link. 
•	If I had filed for Fibromyalgia before, I’d have to file a supplemental claim for them to look at it. (P7 has never had to file a supplemental claim before). 
 
## Post-Task Interview - 7 minutes

1.	What worked *well* for you?
•	The questions from the survey were easy to understand. It was very straight forward.
1.	What was *unclear or didn't work well* for you?
   
1.	What would you like to *change or add*?
•	Neutral zone also called the green zone because you don’t get blown up. Like other places I’ve been to. 
•	More presumptive conditions listed. And a link to a Map to know more about the locations. I know I was in Iraq, but I don’t know where exactly where I was at. I think if it had the map and had the names of the FOB (Forward Operating Base), and the date of when people were there, I’d be able to understand it more. 
•	I’m understating that 1990 or later I’m thinking of Gulf War/Desert Storm Era and 1989 or earlier I’m thinking of Vietnam era. Civilians might not know much about it. They know the name but not the years.  (Operation Iraq freedom, Operation Honduran Freedom, Gulf War where P7 was in). 

1.	Is there anything else that we haven't talked about that you think I should know?

1.	When asked participant to go back to initial screen? 
•	I’m not sure- continue-I’m not sure- what they refer to neutral zone we knew at the “ green zone”. – no. These are screener questions and my interpretation that I’m not eligible but still could be but I’d have to do more leg work. 
