# Notes: PACT Act Wizard Usability Testing

## Warm-up Questions - 5 minutes
Let’s start with a few questions... 

1.	Veteran?
•	Yes, Veteran. 

1. What kind of device are you using today? 
•	Desktop, iMac. (put in the chat should be fine) URL.

1. Do you have any experience with VA health care? 
•	Yes, yes enrolled.

1. Do you get disability compensation from VA?
•	Yes, I do.

1. Are you familiar with the PACT Act?  
•	Vaguely. 


## User Tasks

### Task 1: [Wayfinding] 
If you wanted to learn more about the PACT Act, what would you do?
•	I’d probably go to Safari and type PACT act. (Googled, PACT Act, then clicked first one, VA.gov.) 
### Task 2: [Open prototype] 


### Task 3: [Go through questions in wizard]

*(RECORD all feedback:)*
- *Intro screen*
•	I’m tempted to click continue.

- *Service years*
•	1989 or earlier.
•	Yes, I was in Korea near the DMZ.

- *Burn Pit questions* 
•	No.

- *Agent Orange questions*
•	No.

- *Radiation question*
•	No.

- *Camp Lejeune question*
•	No.


### Task 4: [Results screen--Lejeune or VA Benefit eligibility]
 
Please tell me about what you see here. 
•	Things I might have been exposed and automatic presumption. It says I might be eligible and I’m scanning the resumptive conditions but none of these corresponds to me. 
•	I think it’s based on previous answers to channeled me to this because of my service in Korea. 
•	In 1972 they stopped using Agent Orange in 1971, probably 6 months before I got there, they stopped using Agent Orange. Therefore, if I had medical difficulties, it wouldn’t be due to Agent Orange.

Anything unclear*? 
•	No. 
What does this mean to you?

What would you do now?
I would click, “learn what to do next”. 
  
### Task 5: [Results screen--You may be eligible]

Please tell me about what you see here. 
•	At the top of the page, file for a claim or apply for VA health care, I’m not sure which one I would opt for. 
•	Very straight forward. 

Why do you think you’re seeing this page? 
•	I think it’s helpful. Until I scrolled down, I didn’t anticipate what it would do. 
•	I was puzzled at the top and that’s when I scrolled down the page. 

What does this page mean to you?
•	It’s thorough. If someone wanted to file a claim or apply for VA healthcare. I think people could figure out what to do. 

What might be unclear to you?
•	I was puzzled at the top and that’s when I scrolled down the page. 

Could you tell me what "presumptive conditions" are?
•	It is automatically assumed that if you meet the criteria from the list there and have associations from burn pits, probable cause from your service there. 

If you saw this page based on the questions you just answered, **how confident are you that you could take action**? I’d like you to rate your confidence level.  

- On a scale from 1 to 7, where 1 is *Not at all confident* and 7 is *Extremely confident*, how confident are you that you could take action based on the information in this page? 
•	6 or 7. I’ll say 6. 

- Why? 

 What might that action be? 
•	I would opt for filing a claim. Neither of the options apply to me. The first one is burn pit, but I was not exposed. I would choose Gulf War illnesses. Having read what’s it’s giving me, I would choose learn more about the Gulf War and disability compensation. 

To learn more what would you do? 
•	I would click on learn more about Gulf War and VA disability compensation. I’m looking at the eligibility criteria and that is pretty clear when you served and where you served. I’m puzzled by the 4th bullet. (P11 would like to learn more on what the illnesses are). 

  
 ## Post-Task Interview - 7 minutes

1.	What worked *well* for you?
•	The first page gave me pause; the links just give a summary of the page. (P11 prefers to go to MyHealtheVet because it’s more smooth for him because he's used to it). 
1.	What was *unclear or didn't work well* for you?

1.	What would you like to *change or add*?
•	I think I’m computer savvy and I could get to pages easily. It’s pretty concise and not a lot of words and lots of links. 

1.	Is there anything else that we haven't talked about that you think I should know? 
•	I don’t think so. 
