# Conversation Guide: PACT Act Wizard Usability Testing

## Warm-up Questions - 5 minutes
Let’s start with a few questions... 

1. I understand you are a (*Veteran / Family member).* Is that right? 
	- *(If Family member, confirm:)* Are you a family member of a Veteran? Are you also a Veteran yourself?
	- Thanks for confirming that.

1. What kind of device are you using today? *(Computer / Tablet / Smartphone)*

1. I will be sharing a web page link with you during the session. How would you prefer to receive the URL? I could dictate it to you, or put it in the Zoom chat. *(RECORD)* 

1. Do you have any experience with VA health care? 

1. Do you get disability compensation from VA?

1. Are you familiar with the PACT Act?  

    - *(If Y)* Have you applied for VA benefits under the PACT Act?
      - *(If Y)* Can you tell me about your experience? *(when, how, results)*

    - *(If N)* No problem. You'll learn about it as we go through this session. 


## User Tasks

### Task 1: [Wayfinding] 
If you wanted to learn more about the PACT Act, what would you do?

- *RECORD what they do: Google / VA.gov / words looking/searching for: _______________________*


### Task 2: [Open prototype] 


### Task 3: [Go through questions in wizard]
Let's suppose that (Google/VA.gov) led you to the web page that I'm going to show you. I'd like you to try to use it, and please share **your feedback** while you're doing that. I'm interested in your impressions of what you see, any questions that you have, and how you feel about what you're doing. I'd like you to talk to me about what you're thinking and what you plan to do BEFORE selecting anything.

*(RECORD all feedback on questions:)*
- *Intro screen*
  - *especially if p doesn't know what the PACT Act is*
- *Service years*
  - *any difficulty selecting an option? Y / N*
   - *(family members who aren't Veterans should answer based on the service of their Veteran family member)*
  - *(if p not sure, ask p what they'd do. then advise to select "both")*
- *Burn Pit questions* 
- *Agent Orange questions*
- *Radiation question*
- *Camp Lejeune question*


### Task 4: [Results screen--Lejeune or VA Benefit eligibility]
*(RECORD which results screen they see: Lejeune / VA Benefit eligibility / You may be eligible)*
 
Please tell me about what you see here. 

What does this mean to you?

What would you do now?

*(When all done with feedback on this page...)* Now I'm going to show you a different version of what you might see, which does NOT correspond to your answers to the questions, but I'd like you to take a look at it anyway. 

Could you please select "Continue"?

  
### Task 5: [Results screen--You may be eligible]
*(If participant notices that locations don't match their answers to the questions asked...)* This is a sample page that doesn't correspond to your answers to the questions. I'd like you to pretend that you served in the Middle East.

Please tell me about what you see here. 

Why do you think you’re seeing this page? 

What does this page mean to you?

What might be unclear to you?

- *(RECORD all comments, especially about the date. Did they notice it? Y/N)*

Could you tell me what "presumptive conditions" are?

- *(If they didn't read the description at the bottom of the page...)* Did you see anything about that on this page?
- Could you please take a look now? 
- *(After they read it...)* What do "presumptive conditions" mean to you?

*RECORD other comments on “You may be eligible for VA benefits” page:*
- *“Learn what to do next” link*


*RECORD comments on “Apply for VA benefits now” page:*
- *New PACT Act conditions accordion*
- *Other Gulf War illnesses accordion*
- *File for disability compensation*
- *Apply for VA health care*


If you saw this page based on the questions you just answered, **how confident are you that you could take action**? I’d like you to rate your confidence level.  

- On a scale from 1 to 7, where 1 is *Not at all confident* and 7 is *Extremely confident*, how confident are you that you could take action based on the information in this page? 

- Why? 

- What might that action be? 

- *(RECORD what they do: Apply for disability / supplemental claim / health care / ________)*?
  
 
## Post-Task Interview - 7 minutes

*Type into #feedback-backchannel: "Any questions you want me to ask?"*

1. What worked *well* for you?
1. What was *unclear or didn't work well* for you?
1. What would you like to *change or add*?
1. Is there anything else that we haven't talked about that you think I should know? 

## Thank You and Closing - 3 minutes
