# P1

**How often do you go to your Profile on VA.gov**

Uh, maybe once a month. 

**And what are the reasons that you generally visit your Profile?**

Like when I need a letter showing that I’m a Veteran or showing my disabilities or stuff like this for organizations. Usually go back on va.gov and I think before you can download your letter you need to verify your information is correct. I download a letter showing I’m a Veteran.

**Is that also why you generally come to va.gov as well or just your Profile?**

It’s not just for the Profile it’s usually just for (scrolls down page)... you see here, I get a benefit letter, and usually I think before you can download it, it shows your Profile and you need to confirm that everything is, you know, correct.

**Ok, that’s great to know. So now just a little background context before we start exploring a little bit. Let's pretend you received an email that your mailing address was incorrect and so you decide to visit your Profile. --- **

Well, there’s one thing I was I was going to tell you - you’re not in charge of this but on this Profile here (indicates Records section of homepage) everything is up to date, but when you go to the VA like on the medical side, it doesn’t communicate to them. You need to go in person and every time you go to pretty much every clinic, you need to update your information there. They don’t have it. Or like I moved here in Texas from Hawaii about two years ago. Again last week I got in the mail stuff from the VA in Hawaii. You know, they still kinda don’t know I’m here and I changed my information everywhere I can, but there’s still some people in there that have my old information. When you update address or email or whatever here, it’s just, I guess for whatever here - I don’t know. It’s not given to, it looks like, anybody else.

**So that’s something you run into a lot where your information is incorrect in different places?**

Ya, like as soon as I moved here I changed my address and everything on this, on the computer, and every time you go to any kind of clinic, let’s say I go to the eye doctor, I need to give them the address; they had the old one. You go see your primary care, you need to tell them. You go see the foot doctor, you know… none have the updated information. Unless you give it to them in person at each clinic, they don’t communicate. It looks like each building has its own database and they don’t communicate with any other clinic, any other building, anything else.

**That’s great for us to know, that definitely sounds like it’s pretty difficult to navigate then if you’re constantly changing it. Well thank you for letting us know. And that’s a little bit in line also with what we’re going to talk about today. What I’ll show you today is not actually the case for you so don’t worry about it’s something that we have there just to try it out before it goes live. But let’s pretend that you received an email that your contact information was incorrect, so you decided to visit the Profile part of va.gov. Can you just tell me what you would do - you don’t have to do anything quite yet - but just what would you do next?**

Well first I guess they got the email correct because they’re emailing me. So what part of the contact information is not correct?

**It would be your address. **

Well then I’d go here, Change your address. (clicked change your address in Records section of homepage - leads to Change your address page “Change your address in your VA.gov profile”). And actually you see it’s like I did that when I moved here almost two years ago - “will update your information across several VA benefits and services” but it’s not all of them. Maybe a couple, I don’t know which ones exactly. THere’s still a lot of VA services and VA offices and VA clinics that don’t get it you know. Like here, this should make sure that once you have updated here on va.gov that would update information across ALL VA, not several. I don’t know which one it is, but it’s not all of them - far from there. 

**And if it’s not all of them, would you expect something different here? Or what would you expect to see?**

Just like the IT people need to do something like when you update it here it’s immediately sent everywhere. Actually they don’t say it here, I never paid attention before, but they don’t say all, just several. I don’t know which one, but like I said, I know…I’ll usually be more on the medical side and it looks like they don’t really communicate with this because they never got the change of address or anything. 

**We’ll definitely keep that in mind and see what we can find out about that. So now I’ll ask you to go to your Profile. Do you know where that is?**

I’ll go back here I guess… (goes to homepage and looks at Records box)

**(Directs to Profile)**

**Have you visited this section before on this site?**

I’ve seen it, but not from clicking there. I clicked on something else. I think it’s when I was downloading the letters and benefits and stuff like this. 

**So first before you do anything here, could you please just take a look at this page and briefly tell me about what’s included here?**

You have Personal information, DOB, name, then Contact information should be address and phone… oh address. That should be your dates of service.

**And actually you can just look at Personal information for now. We’ll start with this page. Did you notice the gray box with the yellow stripe there when you were first looking here?**

Wow, review your mailing address. I know it’s correct probably because I’m getting mail from the VA every week.

**Yes, I don’t want you to be concerned. Your actually mailing address is ok; this is something we put there. But did you notice that before I pointed it out?**

No, not really. 

**Could you tell me a little bit more about that, why you maybe didn’t notice it was there?**

Well because here it’s Personal information, and if I wanted to check mailing address I would go to Contact information at the top here. That’s why when I click Personal information I scroll down directly here - Personal information, DOB, and name. If I wanted to update the address I would go here in Contact information, and I guess this shows up here too (indicates main alert on Contact information page). That’s why I didn’t read it, I just skipped it. Because it’s part of that Contact information tab, not this one (Personal information). 

**That makes sense. That’s great for us to know. Because it didn’t seem related to this page then? **

Ya.

**So looking at this alert, what is your interpretation of that just looking at the information there?**

Well it’s like an option. Review your mailing address, might be not correct. But I kind of know it’s correct. And it’s just like a warning, you know. It’s not something like here would be red (line on side) and say “before continuing you must review this before being able to see the rest.” I would click on it and review it. The way it is here is like “oh ok, if you want to, but it’s an option you know. It’s not a big deal.”

**So as far as the importance of this alert, right now, how important is this?**

It’s not really important. Important would be something bigger and red, not yellow. Yellow is like please if you want to take a look, but it’s not like before continuing you must verify your information here. It’s optional, it’s not a big deal. That’s how I see it.

**That’s good to know. And is there anything that’s unclear about this alert?**

Well no, and then it says go to your contact information, which like I said a minute ago, if I wanted to check my mailing address I would go here (indicates Contact information in sidebar).

**So that’s actually the next thing I was going to ask you to do, so that’s perfect. So before you do anything else now, could you talk me through a little more about what you just did? You pointed out that link…**

I went back to Contact information.

There’s one thing here I find confusing, just reading here. Because you know, I reviewed everything here and it’s correct, so I have nothing to edit, I mean change. I have nothing to remove. But then I would go here and I would do nothing, because I review it, but there’s no option to confirm it’s correct. Edit, change it, remove it…there’s nothing to confirm it’s good. 

So that’s what I always did. I reviewed it and ok it’s correct, and then there’s nothing to confirm so… And then here it says if ‘it’s correct, select “Update”.’ It shouldn’t be update. I’m not updating nothing I’m just confirming it’s correct. Updating is changing. And update….I don’t see update anywhere (scrolling down page). There’s feedback, but I don’t see anywhere I can click update. See - I don’t know. It doesn’t show up nowhere. 

**And if you were trying to confirm what would you expect to be there?**

Edit, remove, confirm it’s correct. The three options. And then it’s… I never noticed before: “...or if it’s already correct” nothing to change, “select Update to confirm.” Well it shouldn’t be Update, it should be a different button with “confirm it’s correct.” And even here if I want to Update, there’s no Update, there’s nowhere I can click Update if I had to put Update. They wrote it here, but there’s no Update below that.

**How about we take a look at the alert here, just the alert itself, from a moment and to review that. Can you tell me about what’s in there?**

The whole thing doesn’t make sense. Select “Edit to review.” Well I can review it here (hovers over address listed in read-only state). Edit means change, why do I need to click change to review? Whoever wrote that doesn’t know what the word means. Edit means change it doesn’t mean review, so when we review it it should be what we see here. We should have a button say confirm it’s correct (points to next to Edit button), Edit, and then you click Edit and change it. Edit is to change, not to review. So it would be Edit, Confirm.

Or maybe once you click on Edit and let’s say you change it, and then you click Update to update your address. If it’s correct, we should have a button here on that page saying confirm it’s correct. On the button here everything is correct. All this information is correct? Yes no. Yes confirm or no edit.

I dont know if I need to click edit to be able to update and confirm it’s correct, but it doesn’t make any sense because I’m not updating I’m not editing anything since it’s correct. Whoever wrote that…

**Ok, thank you. That’s really good feedback for us to know so we can take a look at that. I do want to make it clear that your information is correct, but we have this alert there so we can try it out.. (explains how we added alert to test). **

**So now that you’ve looked at the specifics of this alerts. Imagine that you came to this page and your mailing address did have an error in your zipcode like the alert says. Could you walk me through what you would do?**

I would click on the edit. Then you would changed it here and click update. 

**And is there anything unclear about that?**

No that makes sense.

**Ok, and now we’ll move to the part you’ve been mentioning. So let’s imagine you can him and your address was correct and you just wanted to confirm that it was correct. Could you show me what you would do?**

Well there’s nothing to do. I don’t see confirm anywhere. I’d review everything. Even if you read the whole thing here (main alert): “..if it’s already correct select Update.” There’s not even an Update.

Like I would not click on Edit because I have nothing to edit and select Update it shows here, but there’s no button saying update. Plus it’s the wrong wording, because it’s not updating it’s confirming it is correct. Updating you change something, you bring up to date.

**So it sounds like it would be pretty tricky to do then.**

Well it’s impossible. Besides the wrong wording there’s no button. Edit or Remove. There’s no Updating or Confirming. 
Ok, that’s great to know. And just to confirm, you’d expect there’d be something that says confirm, as you mentioned I believe?

Ya.

**Great that is really helpful for us, so thank you. (Asks to double check address to make sure information is still correct.)**

Yes it’s correct. (Says more about how there is no way to confirm).

**Ok so if you kept coming back here and see this alert and had no way to confirm, what would you do to try and confirm?**

I don’t know. Since it’s correct I don’t do anything. I just go back here (homepage) and get the benefits letter. That’s why I’d be on VA.gov in the first place.

**So as far as the alerts, you’d just leave that as is?**

Yep, I’d ignore it.

**This has been great insight, so thank you. That’s everything I wanted to look at. Additional questions?**

No, and I never really paid attention to all this (Change your address in your VA.gov profile page), but tell the IT people they need to change the wording (on Change address page) and add a button to confirm when it’s correct. And confirming it’s correct is not the same thing as updating.


## Observer Method:

**Would you say you were mostly nervous or mostly comfortable with having observers in the session?**

It was okay. You kind of forget they are there since you don’t see them and you don’t hear them. 

**Ok, and is that a good thing, bad thing, neutral?**

It’s a good thing. Observers are supposed to be in the background. If we see them or see their reactions or hear their voice or their “mmhmm” or “oh what the..” whatever, it’s not observers it’s somewhat participants. 

**Did you appreciate the question for prior consent or did you find it was mostly unnecessary?**

No, it was good to ask again. You never know. It doesn’t hurt. 

**Brief hellos - did that make you feel more at ease with them listening in or did it feel more awkward?**

More at ease.

**Excellent. That’s great to know and good feedback all-around. It’s been very helpful.**

**(Closes session)**









