# P2

**How often do you visit your Profile?**

Not very often. About once a year.

**Reason for visiting Profile?**

To make sure nobody’s got in and changed anything.

**Imagine you received an email that your mailing address was incorrect and you decided to visit your Profile, could you tell me what you would do?**

Well it says “to review your mailing address go to contact information” when I opened it up. And it lets me change my preferred name, my gender, which I've been the same gender my entire life. And I’d go to contact information to see what address they’d have for me for mailing.

**Could you review this page a little more and tell me about what you see?**

Well it says personal information. How to update your legal name. How to fix an error in your name or date of birth. Preferred name. Gender identity. What to know before you decide to share you gender identity. Up at the top it says my name, my branch of service, my disability rating. And on the left I can check contact information, military information, direct deposit, notification settings, account settings, account security, and connected apps.

**What stands out to you on this page?**

Well up at the top it automatically tells me what my disability rating is. I’ve known that for years. But it’s got an arrow next to it that says I can check it. It’ll probably give me my last CMP (C&P?) exam results.

The rest of it is something I already know.

**Does seem like when we first arrived on this page you looked at the gray box with the yellow stripe, but I want to make sure I’m not assuming here. Is it safe to say you did notice that right away?**

Oh ya, it pops up right away. It’s like oh, little triangle with an exclamation mark “review your mailing address,” it’s like ok ya I need to review it.

**So that was pretty clear?**

Ya

**And you’ve already said a little bit about this, but what is your interpretation of the alert, if there’s anything else you’d like to say about it?**

Well it says maybe you should go in and review because you haven’t done it in a while and make sure it is correct. Even though I have everything coming electronically.

**And how important does this alert information seem?**

Well if I didn’t have email and other forms of communication, it would be a good thing to check to make sure that nobody’s changed my information so that my information doesn’t go to someone else.

**Ok, so it’d be a good thing to check. What about as far as urgency and how important or urgent this alert seems?**

Well in the scheme of things all of your tax statements actually get mailed to you - your 1095s and other forms, they get hard copy mailed to you, so it’d be a good idea to make sure they’re correct, so that when it does become tax season or close to it that your information goes where it’s supposed to go and not to your old mailing address if you’ve recently moved.

**Pretty important then. What about timeline - when do you feel you’d need to update this by?**

You’d need to update this by I’d say like October, November because the forms are going to be mailed out December beginning of January. And you want it to be in there long before they start pushing the buttons to run the program. 

**Ok, so you’d want to get that updated, but would you feel like you’d necessarily need to do that right away?**

Well if I’ve recently moved yes. If it’s say May 1st and you’ve gotten all your tax forms for the year and you’re not expecting anything, no. But if you’ve recently gone in for a review or a change on your disability rating, you’re going to want to make sure that they’ve got the right address to send everything to. It all depends on what’s going on in your life at the time whether or not you need to check it right away. 

**That’s good to know. Also want to make sure you know your information we’ll look at is correct (explains alerts placed there for testing).**

**So based on this information where would you go from here if you were trying to address the mailing address issue?**

Contact information. Because it said that in the little box: “go to your contact information to review your address.”

**Go ahead and do that. And did you notice that there was a link in the alert that you could click on?**

Ya.

**And why did you decide not to use that?**

I’ve been in too many programs where it says click this link and it takes you somewhere else?

**So did you feel like that was going to go somewhere else then?**

Not necessarily. I worked for the government for too many years to click on links. If there’s something over in the side, click it because it’s going to take you right where you need to go, whereas the link may or may not have been updated. 

**Ok, so it seemed more direct then?**

Ya. 

**And was there anything unclear about getting to this page?**

No.

**So same thing here, before you select anything I’ll just have you review the page as well and tell me about what you see.**

Well let’s see. It’s got my mailing address, my home address, phone numbers, which I need to remove my work number because I no longer work there. (removes work number) Because I haven’t worked there in 6 ½ years when I went out on disability. And there’s my email address and sign in email for DSlogon, ya I’ve already got that. And this gives me, if I’m going somewhere for an extended period of time and I want my prescriptions mailed, I can go in here and change it so it gets sent to me where I’m at instead of where I currently live. Like if I’m going somewhere for 6-8 weeks, I might want to update my address here, so my prescriptions get mailed to me where I’m gonna be at and not to my house where I’m not at.

Otherwise you’ve gotta call the pharmacy and give them an address so they can mail things to you temporarily.

**Ya I can see how this would be helpful in that case. So looking at this page then, what stands out to you on this page?** 

Well it tells you to review your mailing address, where you’re currently living, your phone numbers, such as me I still had a work number in there and I hadn’t worked there forever. If they called that they’d get my replacement and I don’t know if it’s the same guy. I’ve been gone for 6 ½ years - he may have moved. I couldn’t call him and say “hey did somebody call me?” because I don’t even know if he’s still working there. 

**Well that’s good you were able to update that then. And I believe so because you mentioned it, but on this page did you notice the alert, the gray box with the yellow stripe?**

Yes, review your mailing address, and then review your address, and then your home, currently living, phone numbers, contact email, gives you the option to edit or remove. 

**What’s your interpretation of the alert?**

And it says after you do anything - if it’s already correct or if you’ve done anything, select Update. And I don’t see an Update button. Although everything has an edit or remove, so maybe there’s individual buttons to push, because it says update saved where I removed my work phone number. 

**Ok, so you’re looking for an update button?**

Well not that I’ve looked at it, when I removed it it said “Update saved,” so anytime you click anywhere, like if I hadn’t clicked anywhere there was probably an update button at the bottom. But since I updated it it took it away.

**I see what you mean. We’ll try that out in just a second, but first of all what about this alert, how important does this alert information seem?**

Well like I said, if you’re a person who goes from place to place for months at a time, this is something you may want to go in and correct so that things get to you and not an address that’s gotta hold your mail until you get back.

**Ok, so it might be something that’d be good to look at?**

Yes

**Ok, and is there anything unclear about that alert and the information included in it?**

No, everything’s clear except the update button. Like I said “after you correct your address or if it’s already correct, select update to confirm.”

**Ok, why don’t we try that out.**

If you click on edit, even if you don’t edit, there’s an update button after you clicked on it. (clicks Edit then Update) So it you click on something, after you’ve looked through it, there’s an update button at the bottom of the page. 

**Ok, so if you needed to come here and your address was incorrect, is that what you would do or would you do something different?**

Um you’d go to the edit button and change your address to whatever it is. And then after you’ve done that, at the bottom of that page there’s an update button.

**Ok, so does address your questions that you had before with the update button?**

Yes. Ya, click the edit and then at the bottom of that even if you don’t change anything, there’s an update button to say “I’ve looked at this and it’s correct.”

**Was there anything unclear about that process?**

No, it’s self explanatory.

**So now I’ll ask you to refresh to bring that alert up again (explains how to bring up new window to refresh page).**

**So that time I saw that you did decide to click on the link (in the Personal information alert). **

Ya I figured I’ve got two windows open, might as well see if it goes where it’s supposed to. I worked in government IT for three years.

**So is that what you expected to happen then?**

Ya

**Let’s imagine that you came to this page and found the same alerts that we’re seeing now, but your mailing address did not have errors. Could you demonstrate how you would go about telling VA how your address is correct?**

Like I said, you go to the edit button, you scroll down and make sure everything is correct, and after you get to the end of the address it says Update. It has an Update button. 

**And is there anything unclear about that?**

No

**Ok, you can go ahead and do that then. **

And it clears out the warning saying check your information. 

**And is that what you would expect to happen?**

Ya

**Well this has been very helpful, so thank you. That’s everything we need to look at. Any other questions or comments?**

No

**Lastly, want to make sure your information is correct. If you’d like to check over it again.**

It’s correct. If it’s anything close…I’m in a rural area, so the letter carrier knows which box to put my mail in. (tells story about how she gets mail)

**Ok, then that’s everything I wanted to get your feedback on. I do also have three additional questions about the study setup. (Asks observers to leave)**

**Would you say you were mostly nervous or mostly comfortable with having observers in the session?**

Oh, I’m comfortable. I was in the Navy for 20 years and I worked civil service for 20 years. So having somebody look over your shoulder is normal. 

**(Note: did not have additional observers for this session so could not do hellos) Sometimes observers are already in the room, sometimes we have them come in later. Did you feel like that was ok with them already in the room or would you have appreciated them coming in later?**

Oh I’m comfortable with them being already there. The last two years everything you do is on Zoom.

**Ok, so that’s all I had. Thank you so much for your feedback and going through this with us. Unless you have any other questions for me we can end the session. **

No, I don't have any other questions. 

**Ok, well thank you again so much. I hope you have a great rest of the day, and it was great talking with you. **

**(Ends session)**
