# P3

### Warmup Questions

**Great. Now that you're logged in, I have a few initial questions for you.**

**How often do you go to your Profile?**

“I go to my profile probably at the most 2-3x a month to make sure everything is up to date. So depending on what I’m going on for instance if I could on the BT (indiscernible) or VA reimbursement travel.”

**Ok, so to make sure everything is up to date usually?**

Yes

**Let's pretend you received an email that your mailing address was incorrect and so you decide to visit your Profile. Without selecting anything, could you tell me what you would do next?**

“Well what I would do to get to my Profile without actually doing it, if I remember correctly, I go to where my name is and click the dropdown (for ‘Profile’) and I can locate it under there or I can type under the menu bar “Profile” and it’ll help me go to it that way.”

**What sort of information would you be searching for?**

“I would be looking - uh what is it listed as usually? Personal information and usually under the personal information it would either give you a dropdown menu of name, address, phone number, or it would be just information and you would just look for the address tab or where to locate it under the Personal information. 

**Great. Wow you know your way around the Profile. That’s great!**

### Task #1: Review Personal information page and alert

Now I'll have you go through a few things. And just a reminder, it'll be very helpful if you could think out loud and share what's on your mind as much as possible.

**You can go ahead and go to your Profile then and stop once you get there. **

**And before you select anything else, I'll have you go over this page and briefly tell me about what's included here.**

“Ok so, if I remember correctly without scrolling through it, it has my mailing address information, my birthdate, my rank and service. 

**You can go ahead and scroll through, just don’t select anything.**

Yep, so I forgot the gender part was on there either. That’s new for me. But I want to say that I can actually select also, ya like my military deposit info, all of that, basically everything you need to update is right here within this tab, whereas before it wasn’t. I was happy when they did update and everything was in one central location.”

**Ok, that’s good. Anything else you want to mention?**

No I don’t think so. I think the connected apps is new. No that’s not new because I remember that when they updated I was able to connect my VA information to my Apple Health.

**Ok great. And did you notice the gray box with the yellow stripe?**

“The review your mailing address? That is new. When I opened up the page, when we were on just now I did notice and I was like “oh that’s interesting.” I didn’t think to say anything outloud, but yes I did notice that now where I haven’t seen it before.”

**What is your interpretation of the alert?**

“Basically to check to make sure everything is current or something might be missing from it.”

**How important does this alert information seem?**

“Very important because if you need to get any type of information sent to you from the VA, they’re going to send it to the address on file, so if it’s incorrect, you you’re not going to get what you need.”

**Is there anything confusing about the alert?**

“Not at all very clear.”

### Task #2: Navigate to Contact information page

**Ok, let's move on. Based on this information, where would you go from here? **

“From here, if it was just me just regularly going on here I’d go next to the page to check my claims status only because I have some claims that are outstanding, but outside of that I would check my VA health appointments, if I had any that I wasn’t aware of or that were made that I wasn’t aware of, and that’s pretty much it. 

**And what about just for the purpose of this testing out when it comes to the alert here, where would you go next. (also explains alert was put there for testing and information is probably ok). Based on this alert, where would you go next?**

I would click the link (in the alert) to verify my information is correct. And then if it was, select whatever option it gave to say it was correct, and if it wasn’t, update the information accordingly”

**Ok, you can go ahead and click that link then. And now before you select anything here, can you take a look at this page and what's included here and sort of tell me about what you see?**

So basically it’s showing my mailing address, as well as my home address - where I currently live - and they match. They’re both the same.

**Anything that stands out on the page for you?**

Just to see the alert again for review the information or view the address to make sure it’s correct. And then let’s see where I can add a home phone number, mobile, a work number, and I can up my email information. 
**
And just to confirm, is it safe to safe you did notice the alert at the top of the page when you arrived here?
**
Yes.

### Task #3: Review Alert 

**So now we’ll look at this alert specifically.**

**What's your interpretation of that alert?**

That it’s wanting me to verify my address is correct and if not, to update accordingly. 

**How important does the alert information seem?**

“Important because again if it’s not correct the VA can send information to the wrong address.”

**Is there anything confusing about this alert?**

“Nope, everything’s very clear.”

### Task #4: Update Mailing address

**Now I'm going to ask you to imagine that you're reviewing your address and your zip code is incorrect like the alert says. Could you walk me through how you would update that?**

“I would scroll down to the box, click ‘Edit button, edit what needs to be edited and then save the information.” And I would just scroll and make sure all the address information was correct. Yep it is, and then I would click Update, watch it save, and make sure everything was saved accordingly. Yep and everything looks good.

**And that’s what you’d do if your information was correct?**

Yep. And if your information was incorrect, you’d fill it out with the correct information and save it and update it.

**And was there anything confusing about that process?**

“Nope, very straight forward.”

**So this is pretty similar, but I just want to make sure that when it comes to the wording here there isn’t anything that’s unclear. (Explains how to pull up a new window to refresh alert). **

**So if you could go back to the contact information section. So you sort of talked about this already, but would like you to go through again to make sure our alert is clear. **

### Task #5: Confirm Mailing address

**Let’s imagine that you came to this page and found the same alerts, but when you checked your mailing address you didn't find any errors - everything was correct. Could you show me how you would go about telling VA your address is correct?**

“I would scroll down and make sure it showing it as correct. And then I’m assuming only because I haven’t had to do it, I can go to ‘Feedback’ or ‘Contact us,’ depending on what I had to do for it. And feedback I’m thinking is just giving information as to what the website is doing or not doing, whereas by contact us you can reach out directly via whatever email is showing and let them know what is going on with my account as far as what you needed to update or what you needed help with. 

**Would you do this the first time you saw that alert, or would you if you came back and it was still there, that sort of thing?**

“I would probably do it if I came back the second time after updating it and saving it. 

**Ok, and if this was the first time you saw this alert and you were confirming your address, what would you do?**

“If first time, I would update my information, and for me I would go back to the page and if it was looking like it didn’t update, then I would log out and then log back in after clearing my browser history to make sure it wasn’t me and if it was still showing then I might reach back out to see or reach out to the VA to let them know “hey this is showing is it something I need to be concerned with?”

**And you can go ahead and just show me what you would do then.**

“I would go click on it, click ‘Edit,’ make sure everything was showing correctly. (clicked Edit and then ‘Update’) What I would usually do for myself, I would go back to another page just to make sure and then go back to that again. And it’s showing that everything is good so I wouldn't worry about it. But if the alert did pop up again, then I would go in and then I would proceed to log out and log back in. 

**Ok so as long as you saw the alert wasn’t there?**

Yes

**Was there anything confusing about this process?**

“Not at all.”

**Any other questions?**

No, no questions at all. That was straight forward. Everything was straight forward.

### Reset Address and Post Task Interview - 2 minutes

**I'd like to make sure that we now have all of your correct information. Could you please take a moment to double check your zip code?**

Yep, everything looks good.


## Observer method questions

**Great, thank you so much. This has been really helpful. I do have a few more questions about the study setup itself. (asks observers to leave)**

**Would you say you were mostly nervous or mostly comfortable with having observers in the session? **

I was comfortable with it. It wasn’t a problem.

**Did you appreciate the question for your consent before we had extra observers join or was it mostly unnecessary?**

I did appreciate that because a lot of people, they won’t automatically ask you, they just… because you’ve signed the paperwork before. The refresher of asking definitely was considerate because I could have changed my mind, so that was definitely appreciated. 

**And thinking about the brief introductions, did that make you feel more at ease with them listening in, or did it feel more awkward?**

No, it was very much more at ease, definitely. 

**Well that’s great to hear. Well that’s everything I wanted to ask you. Thank you so much. It’s been super helpful. **

**So that’s everything, so we can go ahead and close the session and I hope you have a great rest of the day.** 

Thank you, you do the same, I appreciate it.
