# P4

**While logging in:**

I’m getting some error messages. I’ve got a non-responsive application. [struggled with logging in] They’ve got so much junk on this website it is just ridiculous.

[signing in through MyHealtheVet]

This is just moving really really slow. [lists the steps of authentication] I'm really glad you guys are redoing this website, because it's just been a mish mash of junk on top of junk. API, ID.me…this should be streamlined, I've been redirected 4 times already

It’s got so many layers of nonsense… now I’m at the sign in for MyHealtheVet. 

**But you started on the va.gov home page?**

Yes

But it goes through like 6 different redirects to get to the sign in, which is kind of silly. Now I’m back at mhv, ID.me, now I’ve got to receive a code by phone.

**Does this happen every time you try to log in?**

Yes and it’s completely and utterly ridiculous. And there’s my code. Now I have to do the face id to get my code… jeez, it just kills me. And I’m working with a macbook pro. It’s just idiocy. 

**And do you usually log in with MyHealtheVet or does that happen with other methods too?**

I usually go in through MyHealtheVet because I’m usually checking health stuff. And then I just keyed in the code…waiting waiting waiting. I mean, I’ve got a pretty amazing computer that does a lot of pretty amazing stuff but getting into the VA… “sign in error. Something went wrong on our end and we couldn’t sign you in.” [reads alert - alert refers to “make sure you move through the sign in process quickly. If you waited to long on the sign in page, your request might have signed out”]

**What browser are you using? Are you using safari?**

Chrome. I can switch to Safari and we can try that?

**Do you have another method - like ID.me or one of the other login methods?**

Ya

**Maybe try ID.me.**

It’s just a constant insanity with this stuff. And then it’s down and then it’s all matter of nonsense.

[navigates back to va.gov and starts logging in through ID.me. shares screen for help with logging in]


### Background Questions

**Great. Now that you're logged in, I have a few initial questions for you.
How often do you go to your Profile?**

“Profile not very often. Checking appts and stuff, maybe every week or 2. I’m a pretty heavy user of VA. I check my profile maybe once a year.”

**What are the reasons you generally visit your Profile?**

“To check email address and change of address. I’ve moved a few times so I go to change my address.”

**Let's pretend you received an email that some of your information was incorrect and so you decide to visit your Profile. Without selecting anything, could you tell me what you would do next?**

“I would click on my name and go to ‘Profile’.”

-------- 

---- break in notes ----
 
### Review Personal information page and alert

**Before you select anything else, I'll have you go over this page. Could you briefly tell me about what's included here?**

“It’s annoying because they could just throw my profile at the top. I can’t click ‘Edit’ because it doesn’t show me what they currently have. I want to see name, address, social, dependents, disability status. Everything on my profile should be in one place.”
“The landing page for the VA is not clean. It needs to be simple to get the information I need and faster.”
“It doesn’t make sense to have it on the page where I can’t change it. It seems like it’s something that would be in with everything else.”
 
So about this page (personal info), you mentioned how it’s asking for your preferred name and gender identity. Does it seem like it’s asking you do this or it’s more of an option?
It just seems ludacris to throw that in on the landing when I’m expecting to see everything that may need to be changed with due diligence as opposed to something that you know…. It seems like there’s a large… it just seems like that’s something that would be in with everything else. I don’t see… I guess…when I come here, I guess everyone’s coming here to change their name to Julie and change their gender. I don’t have a problem with any of this, but when you bring it just totally to the top of every list, it’s a little odd. 

Why don’t we have sexual orientation here too? By the same token, see I could take exception to this page people you’re not asking me about my sexual orientation right there. Well why not? Are you marginalizing me and making me feel bad about myself.. See what I’m saying? Everything that we’re doing needs to be business as usual. If I’m gonna change my name if I’m gonna change my address, if I’m gonna change my gender, if I’m going to change my sexual orientation, it just needs to be check check check check check, and I feel like if I click on edit for gender identity fireworks are going off on the page, because it’s like oh we’re so proud of you for being brave, it’s like, why aren’t you proud of me for changing my address. Let’s be grown ups and disciplined about everything. And if you want to change your gender identity, I think that’s just about as interesting as you changing your address. 

All of this should have the same density. This is silly. 

We were don’t ask don’t tell [goes into military background]. I’m cool with whatever anybody wants to do. It’s just putting icing on all cake makes all cake icing-based.

**Can I ask you about the alert at the top of the page? I’m curious what you think of that. Did you notice the gray box with the yellow stripe?**

“Ya…. But I know it’s not relevant. If you had all of the information you wouldn’t need the alert there. If I hit profile and all my Profile information was there, I wouldn’t have to dredge through all this stuff. And it would be here’s all my profile information with a radio button that says edit and then it would all carry the same weight rather than “review your mailing address” - does that make sense?

Ya it does. And for the sake of this, let’s imagine that it is relevant and there might be something wrong with your address, looking at this how urgent does it seem?

“Very. Like I need to do this and check my mailing address right now.” But see I got a bunch of stuff yesterday in the mail, so I know that I’m gonna disregard it, but it also puts a thing in my head that I need to look at that. But if it was already there, the alert wouldn’t be necessary. Now if they had gotten return mail, then the alert should come up. But this alert just seems like it’s just something they’re just throwing in there normally to make me look. 

### Navigate to Contact information page

**So we’ve put this here just to try it out. It doesn’t necessarily apply to your information. But let’s just pretend that it does. **

That it puts me into a panic? [laughs]

**Yes, let’s pretend that you came here and were concerned. Could you show me what you would do next?**

[Clicks on link in Personal information] Well, panic and then here it is [indicates main alert on contact info] and then here, here [indicates smaller alert]. And then there it is, just as simple as simple can be.

### Update Mailing address

If you saw something wrong with your zipcode and there was actually something wrong. Could you show me how you would update that?

There. [indicates and clicks on Edit]. I’d Edit it. 

And then what would you do from here?

I’d change the zip here if I needed to. And then update.

Was there anything that was unclear about that?

No.

**Confirm Mailing address**

And in the same situation here, what would you do if your mailing address was correct? So like now, because it sounds like it is correct.

“Ya I would…well, I guess I’d hit the back button since it was fine.”

**Just looking at this alert here and what we see right now..**

But see, somebody that really wasn’t hip to the world, if they hit cancel, they might think that they were canceling their address. [confirms if he clicked on update before - he did - but it didn’t not work. Clicks cancel to return]

**So let’s pretend you haven’t done any of that and you just arrived here and you wanted to say that your address was correct. What would you do?**

“I have no idea. And then here’s ‘Feedback’ again and it’s like feedback for what? It’s just, there’s a lot of inane things that exist in this because committees 20 years ago when the internet was young decided that they need to do this and this. And I understand the layers, but at some point there going to have to do something to just make it… it’s gotta be made old man proof. And it’s gotta be fast. [Describes how works with an organization that does ivy league bootcamps for combat veterans to bootstrap them into school. The people you’re around are what makes your future.]

**As far as saying that your address was correct and you didn’t know where to go. Looking at this alert here, is there anything that you see that might answer some of your questions around this or might clarify things?**

“Well, pressing update to confirm…see there is no ‘Update’ for me to confirm. It says select update to confirm. And there is no update, so I cannot select ‘Update’ to confirm because there is no update here. 

“And see if everything’s ok, I’m stuck. And even though we went to edit and confirmed and came back to the screen, it still says review your mailing address. There is no resolution here.”
I do think something may have happened when you clicked edit…I expected the alerts to go away. Something might be weird. 

Ok, so I’m going to hit Update and it will take me back, which I’m updating what was already there. Oh it did disappear. There we go, because we did cancel. So pushing update that dropped the warning. But if I just cancel the warning stayed there.

When I hit cancel it took me back to the screen and the warning was still there. So some old dudes or persons or whatever they identify as, they would get stuck in an endless loop right there and lose their minds. Not me, but I’m hyper sensitive to where the old guy would walk into the corner and just keep walking in the corner.

**And so, what you just did now where you went in to Edit, clicked Update, and then this happened. Is that what you expected to happen?**

That’s what I hope would happen - ya. But when I hit cancel, the warning was retained. 

**Ok, and when you hit cancel and it was still there, is that also what you expected or did you expect something else?**

“I expected the warning to disappear then.”
 
Ya. 

**And why did you expect it to disappear when you clicked cancel?**

Because I had gone through the requirements for that page to check my data, and when I checked the data it just said cancel as fulfillment of my obligation of the page. When it sent me back the warning was still there, so I would have to go back through and hit Update where there was no Update to remove the warning. If that makes sense?

**Ya. So you would expect that it would already be gone with cancel and not have to go back and do that second part?**

Right. And most of the time when I would land on a warning page like that and I know everything was fine, I would just always just expect that warning to be there and I would disregard the warning in the future, no matter what… and that’s kind of a military thing too, do not cross this line, well maybe I will. Because that signs always been there and we don’t care.

**Ok, that’s good to know. So if it stayed there, you just start to..**

Disregard it.

**That’s good to know. We are a little over time.**

I’m good.

**That’s everything I wanted you to go through. But do you have any additional questions or thoughts for me?**

No, I just. I enjoy working with you guys because I feel like, you know, I’m not an algorithm, I’m kind of a wildcard, but I don’t just look at this with my eyes. I look at this from many eyes. I’ve always worked with people much much younger and I see things that they see. And I see things that people far far older than I saw. So I feel like I have a little bit of an unusual perspective because the people in this program they look to me for information, and the things that they ask me about I’m like, good god don’t you….I guess you haven’t lived this many years, so you didn’t see this happen over and over and over on the way to here.

**Well we really appreciate that you can bring those different perspectives and that you enjoy doing these. **

Ya it’s fun. I take a lot out of this myself. I like your organization and, like I said before, I appreciate what you’re doing because this is important work. 

**Well that’s great to hear. We also appreciate what you’re doing and how you’re helping us out too. Well I don’t want to keep you much longer.** 

### Observer Method

**I have just a couple more questions for you but I’ll ask the observers to leave the call. And everyone before you leave you can say bye if you want. **

**Observers: bye thank you!**

Thank you. This is fun, you’re doing great work. Appreciate you.

**My last three questions are just about the study set up itself. So first of all, would you say that you were mostly nervous or mostly comfortable with having observers in the session?**

I’m fine with all of it. You wouldn’t believe my VA experience 30 years ago. There was no privacy in any function whatsoever. … I’m fine with everything. This is wonderful. It’s fun.

**So sometimes we have the additional observers already in the session when you join instead of how we did it today. When I asked you for consent before everyone else joined the session, did you appreciate that or did you find it was mostly unnecessary?**

It’s a courtesy. It was a courtesy and one that I’m cognisant of and appreciative of. It’s disclosed in all of the frontend stuff, so I already signed off on it, so you are under no obligation to do that, but it’s nice to give people the heads of that they did sign off on it already. It’s a courtesy. I appreciate it, but you don’t have to do it, and most of the people who were in the military and they signed off on something, you can do it, and they have no reasonable expectation of privacy if they’re being paid. Just saying. But it’s a lovely courtesy and I’d imagine some people just go ‘well I don’t think so’ and you’d just go ‘well the session’s over.’ 

The participant should really have any say so in that. But it’s a lovely gesture and I appreciate it.

**And my last question is, thinking about the brief hellos that you exchanged with the people who arrived later, did that make you feel more at ease with them listening in or did it feel more awkward because of that. **

It’s completely and utterly not necessary, and I myself.. Ya it slowed things down. But if it keeps them away, great. But I would leave it as the one-way mirror in a crime interview room. They don’t need to know who’s behind the wall. 

**Ok, so that seemed unnecessary to you?**

Well we’re in a clinical study. Don’t worry about it. They’re there, I’m aware, I don’t need to know them.

**Well that’s great for us to know. We’re just trying out some different formats to make sure everyone’s comfortable. Sometimes these can be a little odd for people.**

Too bad. Don’t worry about it. These people were in the military. They signed off on it. They’re getting paid. Bip bip bip. Do the deal. Get’em down the road.

**Well that’s good to know too then. That’s everything I have. Thank you so much for your feedback and walking us through all that. 

[ends session]**
 
