# P5

### Background Questions

I’m thinking my mom would not be able to do this. [logging in]

Great. Now that you're logged in, I have a few initial questions for you.

How often do you go to your Profile?

“Probably not a whole lot. I mostly use MyhealtheVet for my VA doctor. Maybe 1-2x a year. But I might start going to school here. I see there’s an education thing, so I might have to do it, you know education. 

What are the reasons you generally visit your Profile?

“Check my benefits, again anything with the healthcare, especially for prescriptions. A lot of times I can refill my prescriptions from the healthcare, send a message to my doctor once every couple of months. And I’ve used it for the lab and test results too.”
Mostly the healthcare part of the VA.

### Confirm Mailing address

Let's pretend you received an email that your mailing address was incorrect and so you decide to visit your Profile. Could you tell me what you would do next?

“I would probably go to my account. I clicked on my name, go to my ‘Profile’. I’m sure my address is in there somewhere. Loading my information. Review your mailing address. So I would go to the ‘Contact information’ page to review my mailing address. [view contact info page] Wow, they’re wrong, it’s absolutely correct.”

[explains that we placed the alert here and information is still the same] If you came here and saw that it was all correct, could you show me what you would do to confirm that?

Review my address, then I would hit edit, go through there, update. Did I pass?

Ya you sped through that pretty quickly. Was there anything unclear about that process?

Not that I can tell. I mean, we’re in the 21st century so, you know, out of the accounts either Amazon or this, you normally have a profile and in your profile there’s normally an address in there somewhere, right? And that little exclamation point kind of prompts you to look there. 

One thing that would be even easier if you want to dumb it down. Instead of the exclamation point, you might actually put click here to review address and then you just have to click that and it will take you right to the address kind of thing. 

So just take out some steps there?

Ya instead of that exclamation mark that draws you to the mailing, have some type of sign that sort of draws you to the address.

Did you notice that the alerts disappeared after you updated that?

Yes

Is that what you expected to happen?

Um it’s nice that it did disappear so I didn’t think that there was something still wrong. 
And then when you went through that, you went to edit and clicked update. Could you tell me a bit more about why you decided to go that path?

Well I saw that all my information was correct so… I didn’t want to hit cancel and it was either hit cancel or hit update, so I figured update was it. 

Do I win the prize?

Ya I mean you successfully did that.

[tells Price is Right story]

So then I’ll ask you to open another window and go to VA.gov again so the alerts will show back up again. 

[goes back to Profile]

### Review Alerts

Now that we’re looking at them again. Is there anything that’s unclear about these alerts that you see here?

“No, that’s pretty clear. Review my mailing address. I wish it said you won a million dollars.”

That would be better, you’re right. Ok you can click on the same link. With this alert here is there anything that’s unclear about that?

No, select edit to review, after you select it if it’s alright, click update to confirm. So should I preview my mailing address? 

### Update Mailing address

I’d actually like to know what you would do. Can you just talk me through what you would do if something wasn’t correct, say your zip code needed to be changed?

“Well I would hit edit, go in there. Ope that looks correct, city looks correct, state looks correct, zip code looks correct, and then I would hit update.”

And if the zip code was not correct, what would you do in that case?

I would type in the new zip code. 

And what about after that?

Then I would click update.

And at that point, what would you expect to happen to those alerts after you click update?

I would hopefully say they would go away and it would say that I did awesome. 

Ok, so I think we covered everything I wanted to go through. Do you have any other questions for me or thoughts on what we just went through here?

No, when can I sign up again and get another 50 dollars? [continues to ask about signing up for studies]

Could you just double check your mailing address, make sure we didn’t accidentally change anything?

Looks good. 

Ok, so I do have a few more questions for you but will ask our observers to leave the call first.

Uh oh, it sounds like I’m in trouble. 

My questions are: would you say that you were mostly nervous or mostly comfortable with having observers in the session?

Doesn’t bother me too much. 

And so too much - does it bother you at all?

Doesn’t bother you at all.

So sometimes we have the additional observers already in the session when you join instead of how we did it today. When I asked you for consent before everyone else joined the session, did you appreciate that or did you find it was mostly unnecessary?

I appreciated that. It would actually be more helpful if I could see what they looked like. They could see what I looked like, but I don’t get to see what they looked like. So that might put someone more at ease if you actually see who they are, so I’m not being catfished.

That’s good to know. They did actually come on video very quickly, but I know that on the phone it’s kind of hard to see where everyone is. But that’s really good to note. And so when you say that, would you prefer that they were visible the whole time?

No, because that would be too distracting I think.

Ok, so just long enough to really…

Just a wave, hi, you know [jokes about wearing all their clothes]

Ok, so thinking about the brief hellos, I’m not sure if you heard them, if sounds like you weren’t able to see them. Did you hear them say hi at all? So did that make you feel more at ease with them listening in or did it feel more awkward?

Uh I think it made it more at ease.

Ok, great well that’s all I have, so thank you so much for going through this with us. 

[thanks participant and closes session]
 
