# P6

**About logging in:**

I always go in for the quickest one which I think is the myhealthevet one. In the past month there have been issues with it not registering my login, but I guess that’s due to the changes they’ve been making.

I thought oh it’s just my system, but then it happens on other people’s laptops and phones, not just mine. And the answer was to erase all cookies. And that would do it as long as it was cleared of cookies. If there was a cookie in there from a prior visit, it would act like it was logging in, but it never truly logged in, but that is just with the MyHealtheVet one.

Sometimes with MyHealtheVet login, it goes through this whole process, and then for some reason it shows login once again instead of my name. And I just keep trying or use one of the other sign ins. 

### Background Questions

**Great. Now that you're logged in, I have a few initial questions for you.
How often do you go to your Profile?**

“I go almost every day to the main health one. To my actual profile, Maybe once every three months. It always seems like I’m discovering new things on the VA website like that simple little menu option that suddenly transforms into wow all these other opportunities. But for the actual that part I’d say once every…. Maybe 3 times a year.”

**What are the reasons you generally visit your Profile?**

“Just to make sure everything is still updated and current I guess and correct. Because I always have a thing that sometimes things will slip back…because there are errors in my VA account, but that’s mostly from my military service errors, but I always think it will happen with the VA account as well, where they have my time of service. Like for instance at the VA they have my time of service listed wrong and things like that. Ya so that’s why I’d check just to make sure that there are no things that have been changed.”

**And slip back as in it is right and you’re worried it might change to something else?**

Yes.

**Let's pretend you received an email that some of your information was incorrect and so you decide to visit your Profile. Can you tell me what you would do next?**

“I think I would go to ‘Records’ and click ‘Change your address’. I would think that.”

### Review Personal information page and alert

**Now I'll have you go through a few things. And just a reminder, it'll be very helpful if you could think out loud and share what's on your mind as much as possible. So first I’ll actually ask you to go to your Profile if you could.**

[scrolls down page and clicks Go to your VA.gov profile button in green alert]
[alert is missing, so time spent figuring out how to get alert to appear - participant ultimately logs in through ID.me instead]

**Before you select anything else, I'll have you go over this page. Could you briefly tell me about what's included here?**

“I’d assume it’s where you can change your email address or your name, or your DOB, or your preferred name like a nickname, or gender identity. And that would be it, so those five things. That’s where you can change those five things.

**Did you notice the gray box with the yellow stripe?**

“Ya anytime there’s a gray section it’s usually something I look at first. Well, I guess the first thing I would notice is the little caution thing. Anytime I’m on a page, those little caution things trigger me first. And the second thing instead of the orange stripe, the vertical line on the side, would be the fact that it’s grayed. That usually indicates it’s something I want to look at. And then as the third thing I’d notice that yellow stripe as something worth looking at.”

**What is your interpretation of the alert?**

“I’m assuming that Whether it’s for security issues or whether there’s some sort of issues with different addresses the VA has for me, that they want me to go here, it’s preferred that I go there and I’m going to keep seeing this until I go and review to confirm that things are correct because they seem kind of an issue, like maybe I changed my address recently.”

**So you said it seems like it’s preferred that you go there. Kind of in that line, how important does this alert information seem?**

“I would say very in the fact that I’m probably going to keep seeing it until I finally do deal with it in the future, so I probably want to deal with it right away so I don’t keep seeing that. I would see it as a critical thing I would need to handle.”

**Is there anything confusing about the alert?**

“No. I understand what it’s saying, yes.”

### Navigate to Contact information page

**Ok, let's move on. Based on this information, where would you go from here?** 

“I would just click on the link that’s in it (the gray box).”

**You can go ahead and do that.**

Alright I did. Should I look around this page too?

**Ya if you could take a look at what you’re seeing here now and kind of the same thing - an overview of this page.**

[reviews his information on page]

For the mailing address part I see that and that’s all correct. Should I keep scrolling down just to look around at the full page?

**I think that works. **

I guess I would think when I see “Review your address” with that exclamation, I would think does that mean I have to hit edit in order to not see that warning anymore or is it just saying review your address as a one time thing and then it assumes that if you didn’t hit edit that it’s fine and it wouldn’t show up in the future. If that makes sense?

**Ya, so what does it seem like?**

Um of those two options. I would guess if it’s showing “review your address” with the exclamation that it’s only gonna pop up this one time if I come on to the page, as opposed to it showing up every single time until I hit edit.

I guess just to talk in my head I would think is there or why isn’t there a button that says no this address is fine. Because otherwise I have to hit edit to edit it when if it is fine I don’t need to really edit it. But then again I don’t want to see that warning every time.

**Ok I see what you mean. But you do think the warning would go away, is that correct?**

That’s what I’m thinking. I would guess that. I would probably actually log out and go back in just to see if it..to confirm that. If I was seeing it for the first time, I’d probably log out and go right back in within minutes just to see instead of waiting for the future when I randomly went there next.

**Ok, so you said that your address is actually correct. Is that correct?**

Yes it is correct. [explains that he recently updated something at the hospital that was incorrect - issues with incorrect addresses at different VA locations]

**Confirm Mailing address**

**If it is correct here, what would you do if you came here and you saw these alerts, how would you go about confirming that this is correct?**

“I wonder why there isn’t a button that just says yes this is a correct addres. Because there isn’t that button that says yes everything’s fine I would just naturally...if I wasn’t talking to you right now, I would click ‘Edit’ and see if it gets rid of the warning. Should I hit the edit button?

**Ya you can go ahead and show me what you would do.**

Then I go here and flip through it all, it’s ok. And then I guess I will hit ‘Update’ even though I’m not necessarily changing anything. Then I would probably think that’s odd that it says update when I’m not actually updating anything, like there’s no changes to be made. It seems this would be more of a confirmation than an update, but that’s just my head. Ok, so I just did that. Update saved. Now I woulda just assumed oh now I’m not going to see that warning anymore. 

**Ok so is this or is this not what you expected to happen?**

Um.. it’s what I expected except for the fact I mentioned I would consider that more a confirmation than an update since nothing was changed. Sometimes when I see update when I’m only confirming things then I kind of get a little, not paranoid, but I do security, IT security, myself and I would just think that’s odd did somebody make a change I didn’t know about? And suddenly even though I’m just confirming the same thing something was different somewhere else where I’m now making a change?  That’s what would just go on in my head.”

**Ok so by going through that you’d be maybe a little concerned that something had changed when you hadn’t changed it?**

Ya to a small bit, just because like I said when I see update I think oh because something’s updated when it’s changed and nothing was changed from my end. 

**So other than that, was there anything else that was unclear about that process?**

Uh no, no that was… no not at all. With just the kind of confirmation of it that seemed what I would expect other than that one little thing I remarked on.

**Ok and you mentioned that it seemed more like a confirmation rather than an update, was there anything that you expected to see on the page that you didn’t to that extent.**

No

**Ok [asks to go to a new window to reinstate alerts]**

### Update Mailing address

**Now I'm going to ask you to imagine that you're reviewing your address and your zip code is incorrect like the alert says. Could you walk me through how you would update that?**

“I would go to ‘Go to your Contact information to review your address.’ Then I’m at that same thing and I would hit ‘Edit’ under the mailing, then I would scroll down to the zip code part, make the change, and then hit the ‘Update’ button. And then it updates it again and I don’t see that warning although I guess I did see it before. But I guess I would go through those steps.”

**Was there anything confusing about that process?**

“No, that was fine.”

**And you mentioned that you didn’t see the warning, did you see that earlier?**

“Ya the warning that was there just now before I hit the edit that was there like 5 minutes ago in that other instance we had opened that it showed the gray bar area with the orange stripe and the little caution symbol.

**And would you say that’s something you paid a lot of attention to or just noticed?**

Um the warning? Um I would say like last time I noticed it. Well it was the same one so… ya I always notice those things and try to handle them right away. I’m assuming since it was there a second time that I came to this page on the second instance that you all just made sure that it showed up because you were troubleshooting and not because it’s just gonna show up every time I come here.

**So the alert that you saw on the other page on the personal information page and the one that you saw here. Does that seem like the same alert?**

Yes. Unless it was a trick and they changed a word or two, but for the most part I kind of just looked at it and thought they said the same thing. 

**Ok, that’s good for us to know.**

**[asks to check all information again]**

Yes everything’s correct. Oh ok, so if I go to mailing it opened up that secondary page but if I go to Home address it actually just shows a dropdown on the same page instead of taking me to that address and everything’s the same [updates home address] Ya usually I only see update buttons on websites typically if there’s changes.

**Ok, well that’s everything I had. Do you have any other questions or thoughts for me on what we’ve looked at?**

Um no, no not really. I mean I’m going to call the main VA and find out…when I download the PDF that shows all your health information it still has, there’s so many different, it just seems like it lists like so many addresses, and I’ll find out how to change it to make it this address on the other thing. But again that’s not just the main va.gov site. But no, everything here seem normal. Because I just started to go to this site, to the main VA site just to go to travel because I just signed up for travel reimbursements. 
 
## Observer Questions

And then I just have a few other questions. First of all this has been super helpful for us so thank you for joining us for this session and also for sticking with us through those technical challenges. [asks observers to leave session]

**Would you say that you were mostly nervous or mostly comfortable with having observers in the session?**

I was fine with that.

**So sometimes we have the additional observers already in the session when you join instead of how we did it today. When I asked you for consent for them to join, did you appreciate that or did you find it was mostly unnecessary?**

No, I guess I appreciate it. It's fine with me, yes it’s fine with me. I mean the more the merrier as far as troubleshooting and tacking things down.

**And my last question is, thinking about the brief hellos with everyone coming on and waving and coming on video, did that make you feel more at ease with them listening in or did it feel more awkward because of that. **

Um I wasn’t on the page that even showed that. I had me fullscreen and I had you as a thumbnail. But I didn’t see..that might have been on a secondary screen in Zoom to see like a group meeting sort of a thing, but I only saw me and you only because I was in that mode, apparently.

**Oh ok, that’s good to know. I think that’s something we’ll run into with mobile. So that’s it. Thank you so much for your feedback.** 

**[thanks participant and ends session]**
 
