# P7

### Background Questions - 2 minutes

**Once logged in to VA.gov:**

**How often do you go to your Profile?** 

Profile uh, every couple of weeks probably

**What are the reasons you generally visit your Profile?**

Just to check and make sure everything still looks good. I am not really doing anything with claims or anything anymore, so I don’t have a reason to go there all the time. Make sure my direct deposit is still set up. Look at my prescriptions if I need more.

**Let's pretend you received an email that your mailing address was incorrect and so you decide to visit your Profile. Without selecting anything, could you tell me what you would do next?**

Without clicking on anything, probably My VA, if I had to guess what I’d click. 

**So you would think you’d be able to go to My VA to correct an incorrect mailing address?**

Yes

**Go ahead and click on that. Once this loads, tell me how you’d think you’d go about correcting your mailing address from here:**

Probably go to your profile. 

**Ok, you can go ahead and click that.**

### Review Personal information page and alert

**Could you briefly tell me about what's included here? What stands out to you on this page?**

Well, right there is our “review your address” so that was nice. It may not be correct - huh. Okay then.
 
**What is your interpretation of the alert?** 

Um there's an error somewhere. I always get mail from the health system, which is what I use normally, so I know it’s right so something else must be off. It could be my education address.

**How important does this alert information seem?** 

It’s pretty important especially because as far as I know there shouldn’t be an issue with my address so I would definitely be checking that out right away.

**Is there anything unclear about the alert?**

No

### Navigate to Contact information page

**Where would you go from here?** 

Click on that link right there.

**Ok, you can go ahead and click it.** 

### Review Contact information alert

**Now before you select anything, I'll have you review this page. Could you tell me briefly about what's included here?** 

My address, my mailing address and my home address. My phone number, my work number, my mobile number, and my contact email.

**What stands out to you on this page?**

That big “review your address” is standing out. (Referring to smaller all-yellow alert)

**Ok and what do you think that’s telling you to do?**

It’s telling me I need to check that address and make sure it’s right.

**Ok, and is there anything confusing about it?** 

Nope, it seems pretty direct.

### Update Mailing address

**Ok let’s imagine that you're reviewing your address and your zip code is incorrect. Could you walk me through how you would update that?**

I would click the edit button right here.

**Ok, you can go ahead and do that.**

And then go down to the zip code box.

**Ok, so we can just pretend you updated your address so we don’t have to go back and change it. Let’s say you changed a number there that was wrong. Then what would you do:** 

I would click update.

**What happened:** 

It corrected my address to the right one. 

**Was there anything unclear or confusing about that process?** 

No ma’am.

### Confirm Mailing address

**Ok, so we’ll open another tab and type VA.gov again. Then let’s navigate to your Profile again. This time, I want you to imagine that you don’t want to make any changes to your address - it looks correct. Can you walk me through how you would go about doing that?**

I would probably go to contact information if I was just checking my address I’d go to contact information to look at it.

**Ok, you can go ahead and do that.**

Ok, and then look right there and make sure it looks correct.

**Ok, so let’s say it was all correct and you didn’t want to make any changes to it. How would you go about confirming that:**

Um if I just wanted to look and make sure, but not make any changes, I just would look at it right here.

**And then would you do anything?**

No ma’am

**Ok, and how would you expect the alerts go away if everything was correct:** 

Probably if I hit edit and then I hit update. Oh, let’s see. I assume it is triggered by a person that wants me to look and so if it’s updated, so when I update it, the warning will go away because I’ve updated it.

**What if you didn’t do anything and the alerts are still there, how to make them go away:** 

I would hit edit and then if it was right I’d just hit update. 

**Ok, you can go ahead and do that.**

I’m assuming it’s just triggering that I looked at it and will remove the alert.

**Ok, so what do you think happened now that you did that:** 

It saw that I “updated” my address, so it took the alert away.

**Was there anything confusing about that process to confirm your address?** 

No Ma’am

### Reset Address and Post Task Interview

**Great! That's everything I wanted to get your feedback on. Lastly, I'd like to make sure that we now have all of your correct information. Could you please take a moment to double check your zip code?** 

Yes ma’am, it is still correct.

**Great! Thank you so much, this has been really helpful for our team. We really appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us today.**

I just have a couple of little questions that I want to ask, after having all of our observers leave the room. So, thank you observers, you can exit the meeting now. 

**We’re trying out new process with observers, would you saying you were mostly nervous or mostly comfortable with having observers in this session:**

Mostly comfortable.

**Ok, so normally what we do is we have our additional observers already in the session when you join instead of how we did it today. When I asked you for your consent before having the observers join the session did you appreciate that or did you feel that it wasn’t necessary?**

I appreciated it. I don’t think it was necessary, but it was nice. When we sign the paperwork it states that everything is going to be recorded anyway, so...

**Do you remember consenting to observers being in the session:**

I don’t know if I remember that or not, I just remember everything’s going to be recorded.

**Ok, so thinking about when I asked everyone in and I asked them to briefly just say hi, did that make you feel more at ease with them listening in or did it feel awkward or it didn’t really matter?**

It didn’t really matter.

### Thank-You and Closing

**Ok, alright well that’s everything that I have for you today. We appreciate your time as we continue to work on the site and make sure it really works for Veterans, so we’re all done today thank you so much. I hope you have a great day!

You too, thank you.

**[closes session]**

