# P8

### Background Questions

**Once logged in to VA.gov:**

**Great. Now that you're logged in, I have a few initial questions for you.**

**How often do you go to your Profile?**

Um not too often. Like maybe recently to update my mailing address, oddly enough, within a year and a half ago, so not monthly or anything like that I would say. Maybe once every 6 months to a year. 

**What are the reasons you generally visit your Profile?**  

No, unusually when I come in here it is for a specific reason, so I don’t go to my profile.

**Let's pretend you received an email that some of your information was incorrect and so you decide to visit your Profile. Without selecting anything, could you tell me what you would do next?** 

Well I see part of my name at the top so I would click the down arrow to see if there was an option to view my profile or account information.

**What would you be searching for?** 

Um something that said profile or account to click on.

### Review Personal information page and alert 

**Go ahead and go to your Profile.** 

That was self-explanatory; the down error did show the profile option. I am confused because we are talking about the mailing address and it tells me to review the mailing address. Is that ironic?

**Ya, it is, it’s funny that you mentioned that. So it seems like you noticed that right away. What is your interpretation of the alert?** 

Um, well it is confusing because my mailing address should be correct, but I do like that it popped up right away. So obviously I’m gonna check that first before doing anything else.

**How important does this alert information seem?** 

Considering I get prescriptions and appointment cards in the mail, it is important to me that my contact information is correct for my mailing address.

**Is there anything unclear about the alert?** 

Nope it is pretty straightforward.

**[informs participant that alert was added for testing purposes]**

### Navigate to Contact information page

**Where would you go from here?** 

I would click on the “go to your contact information” link. I think that’s useful as well. If it didn’t have the link it’d be like ok so now where do I go. I am pretty tech savvy, but for someone who wasn’t I think that link being right with the alert is useful for sure. [clicks on link]

### Review Contact information alert / Confirm Address

**Let’s take a look at this page then. Could you tell me briefly about what's included here?** 

Um basically it’s reiterating that my address may not be correct. (Reads) Select edit to review. After you correct or if it’s already correct, select update to confirm. And then there’s an arrow to review so I am scrolling down. So I’m gonna select edit to review it, then I’m confirming everything is correct so I’m gonna hit update to confirm. And okay. My mailing and my home are the same so I guess I could add it (home address). Oh my home address is the same as mailing so that’s easy enough [checks blue box]. So I checked that box then I’m updating, and now it’s showing mailing and home and the update is saved. And everything else looks good.

**It seemed like you went through that fairly easily, but was there anything confusing about this alert?** 

No, it was very streamline. I still like working from my laptop for things like this. So, especially with it being mobile, I’d say it’s very user friendly and everything reads very well as well. Nothing worse than going to a website and having to try to zoom in or things don’t populate the way it should read, you know, with words getting cut off and stuff. So everything visually looks good as well.

**Great, that’s great to hear. [asks to reopen VA.gov to bring back alert]** 

**Looking at the alert (main alert on contact information), is there anything that was unclear about information within the alert?**

Nope very straightforward, and I like the specifics like “select Edit” and “select Update” are in bold. I like the step by step of telling me what to do.

**Great. And so you did mention the link with the arrow, but I notice you didn’t click on that. Is there a reason why you decided to scroll down rather than clicking on that?** 

Well, the arrow down, but also within the screen I can see the addresses listed so it made me want to instantly scroll down and see.

**So kind of because it was already in view?** 

Yes

**My last question about the alert, it does seem like you noticed the alert right away. Would that be safe to assume you noticed this alert immediately?**

Oh yeah. Oh yeah.

**And then I had asked you about the other alert and how important it seemed. What about this one?**

Ya still the yellow border on the left side pops out at me. And the mailing address to me is an important issue. Probably mailing and email because that’s where I do a lot of communicating from. But if it said by chance my phone number wasn’t correct, I probably wouldn’t be too concerned about it, but mailing address defiantly made me curious or concerned like ok I need to see what’s going on here. 

**Ok so partially the way that it looks, but also…** 

Also what it was pertaining to, ya.

### Update Mailing address

**Ok, great. Now I'm going to ask you to imagine that you're reviewing your address and your zip code is incorrect like the alert says. Could you walk me through how you would update that?** 

Well if I said that it said [incorrect zip code], I would hit the edit tab and then scroll down to where the zip code is and tap that, I’d hit the backspace and I’d correct the digit. And then I would again click update.

**Ok, and was there anything confusing about that process?** 

No.

**Ok, and is this what you expected to happen afterwards?**

Yes, bringing me back to this screen showing me the correct zip code, ya. 

**Ok, and what about the alerts, it looks like they’re not there anymore. Is that also what you expected to happen or did you expect something else?**

No I guess I wasn’t expecting anything, but it makes sense if I did actually correct my…the fact that maybe I. I mean I didn’t correct anything, but I guess IF I did correct something and I hit submit, then the alert should go away. So ya, I mean it makes sense, but I wasn’t expecting either.

**When you first confirmed your address, this is the same thing that happened. Is that also what you’d expect with confirming your address? Or would you expect the alert to stay?**

Yes. I honestly didn’t even notice the alert went away originally.

### Reset Address and Post Task Interview

**Ok great, that is just about everything I wanted to get your feedback on. Unless you have any additional questions or thoughts on what we just looked at?**

No, easy peasy.

**Lastly, I'd like to make sure that we now have all of your correct information, since we made one small change to your zip code. Could you please take a moment to double check your zip code?** 

Everything checks out.

**Ok, awesome, so that’s all I have for you to go through, and this has been really helpful for our team. We really appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us today.** 

**Before we end the session, I do have a couple of other questions that I want to ask, after having all of our observers leave the room. But I will ask that the other observers leave the session at this time.**

**Would you saying you were mostly  nervous or mostly comfortable with having observers in this session?** 

No, I was comfortable. Mostly comfortable.

**Ok, so normally what we do is we have our additional observers already in the session when you join instead of how we did it today. When I asked you for your consent before having the observers join the session did you appreciate that or did you feel that it wasn’t necessary?** 

I would say I appreciated it. I will say, I prefer my laptop when doing Zoom, so this whole time I have only seen you and my screen. So if you didn’t tell me that there were other observers, I honestly wouldn’t have known. I guess I can scroll through, but I wouldn’t even have known that anyone else was on. If I were on my laptop, I would have been able to see everybody on one screen, but doing it on mobile, I’ve only seen you. So I wouldn’t have known anyone else was on. So ya I would say I appreciated the heads up before they came on.

**Ok, and also thinking about the brief hellos, did that make you feel more at ease with them listening in or did it feel awkward or it didn’t really matter?**

No, it made me feel more at ease.

**Ok great, that’s good to hear. So that’s everything I had. So thank you so much and we really appreciate you taking the time to do this and share your thoughts with us today.** 

**Have a great rest of the day!** 

You too, thank you.

**[ends session]**
