# P9

**ID.me**
Do you know your username and password? Uh, I don’t know if I know it off the top of my head. I have it all saved because of the the brain injury. It is all stored on my computer.

### Background Questions - 2 minutes

**Once logged in to VA.gov:**

**How often do you go to your Profile on VA.gov?** 

Probably two or three times a month.

**What are the reasons you generally visit your Profile?** 

Um, it's either I need a letter for my disability or I am trying to figure out how to file a travel claim or figure out why I haven’t been paid for my GI bill for my housing allowance.

**And specifically your personal Profile, do you also visit that?** 

Not very often that one’s probably maybe every quarter only because I had a while that for some reason my information kept getting changed, and I found out that after I got divorced because my ex-husband had my computer he had access to my information and he was going in and changing things because it affected my disability payments. Once we figured that out and changed my password, that problem stopped.

**Do you go in and kind of check on that on occasion?**

I do, like I said about every quarter I go in and just double check and verify.

**Let’s pretend that you received an email that your mailing address was incorrect and you decided to visit your personal Profile here. Without selecting anything, could you tell me what you would do next?** 

Um I would go down to records; and I don’t want to change the address, I just want to see what my information on file is. So I would look here, my benefits, no, employment, housing, pension, records, education, life insurance, healthcare, disability… None of those apply. I don’t want to personalize my va page because that tells me which widgets I’m going to put on there. State Veterans offices. I might come down here. This pretty much matches all the icons up top, so that doesn’t tell me what I need to do. I might go up here to go to my profile [navigates to name dropdown] to see what’s in my profile. I would kind of assume it would be the username and password and DOB. But oh look there it is, there’s my birthdate, my preferred name, um and over here is my contact information [clicks on contact information in sidebar menu], so people contact me through email and snail mail. So there is my address, and it says to review my address, and it won’t let me really do anything because it’s ok, so I can’t click on anything to say it looks good. Even this I can’t click on it to say review my address or it brings weird dropdowns. So I don’t know what I’m supposed to do. I reviewed it. It looks good. I don’t know what to do now because I don’t need to edit it because I’m not changing it.

**What would you be searching for?**

(Note: Didn’t seem to see either alert)
 
**If you got to this point and weren’t sure what you needed to do then, what would be your next step. What would you do if I wasn’t here:** 

I wouldn’t do anything, I’d just skip it and figure somebody doesn’t really know what they’re doing there to give us a link to.. In my mind it’s only about 50% done because I’m supposed to review it, but it doesn’t tell me what I’m supposed to review, or how I’m supposed to review it. I don’t have a click here for verify or confirm. And the edit tells me that I would need to change it and I don’t need to change it. So I would just kind of look down here, yep that’s good. And I would just kind of scroll on through - my home, my work, my mobile is all good, my email is all good. So I actually wouldn’t do anything because there's nothing for me to do. There’s no way to confirm it.

**You mentioned a click here to verify or confirm. Would you expect to see something like that?** 

Well that or it says review your address. Ok, It looks good. Why is it there and how do I make that go away to say that I have done what you’ve asked me to do. There's no way to make this go away to say I have done it. 

**So more information needed?** 

Ya or a call to action button that says “review your address.” I can either have another button down here that says looks good or confirm or something. But this just tells me to do something with no way to do it.

**Did you notice the gray box with the yellow stripe?** 

I just did and that doesn’t seem where it’s at to fit with this (indicates mailing address field) because it’s divided by this (FAQ), so it’s disconnected from the addresses. So that’s why I didn’t pay attention to it because it’s not connected to this and with all of the other pages that have the little banners right here that say covid information or emergencies situations, or flood warnings contact here. They never apply to me so I don’t even look at these.

**You see it a lot:** 

Ya, even when I first logged in, there was a little red banner up at the top and I think there was some other things that are but we constantly saying now that they’re changing programs. And I noticed it even in my HealtheVet that it will say you may experience lack of connectivity or delays or something like that. And I don’t really care because if my information isn't there, I read it once and it’s constantly there, so now it’s just visual noise to me. And then when I was looking down at the addresses, I’m like oh contact information, address. But with (FAQ - “which benefits…”) that’s really awkwardly worded. This just doesn’t seem like part of this because it’s divided here.

**What is your interpretation of the alert?**

Granted I see that it says edit to review the address and after you correct your address, or if it’s already correct, click update. I am not comfortable with that at all because I have a history of things going haywire with the VA. I do not want to click edit and possibly have anything go haywire, so I’m not going to do that at all. And I’m not going to update it because it’s already good. 

**Ok, so you would be concerned that something would mess it up?**

Ya and it has before. I’ve had situations when I’ve gone in to edit. For something as simple as it use to say dr instead of st., for some reason it defaulted back to an old address after I hit edit and then I had to redo everything over and I started getting mail at my old address. And I started not getting things. So now if it says edit and then update for something that’s already correct, I will not do it because I have had a bad experience.

**What if it wasn’t correct? Imagine you come here and your zip code wasn’t correct. In that case, what would you do?** 

If that’s the case, up here this just kind of tells me what to do, if I click on this, i just takes me down there. It literary drops me two inches on the screen. So I would edit or maybe, who knows, somebody might have a PO box or an apartment number. And then I would fix it and then do the update. Everything tells me what is required. And I see that that has made that box go away.

**Expected that to happen?** 

No I didn’t expect the box to go away, but I understand why it does because it’s no longer needed because you did what the box asked you to do.

**Why didn’t you expect it to go away:** 

Only because I don’t see the purpose of it there. It’s just a lot of the other things with the little banners that are constantly popping up with the new myhealthevet, no matter if you go to secure messaging, if you go to the pharmacy, if you go over to the blue dot, those banners telling you that you may experience outages or lack of connectivity, they stay, they just keep staying there. So even though I did the information, I think it’s just I’m kind of programmed from seeing all those that I didn’t expect it to go away. 

I would rather… because this part (alert) when it was up here, it was just such visual noise with all the other stuff, I would rather just see a button right here (next to Edit button) that would just say confirm and verify address. Maybe have the little box (main alert) here under contact information but I wouldn’t put it above it because it’s disjointed from what you want to do here. And this is the only thing it asks me to do. In my mind. Because this was the only thing asking me to fix. It didn’t ask me to verify the numbers, email addresses.

**Closer to what you need to do?** 

Ya. And it doesn’t really tell you to verify your phone number as well. It just wants the mailing address fixed. Because people move all the time, and with the way the economy’s going right now and a lot of vets are getting older, they are changing providers from expensive providers to the month to month phones. So whether or not their phone number changes or their economic status changes. Nothing asks them to verify all of this information. Or they might have changed a job, so they’d need to change their work number as well. Or maybe they have a new email address because their information has been hacked. So I would expect it to verify the information; I would expect to verify all of my information. While I’m in here why not. 

**(Explains that we placed the alert there) Interpretation of alert:** 

If I got that then that would tell me that maybe the system is being changed over and they are making sure that with the transfer from one to another, making sure the mailing addresses, because that’s the primary point of contact and the legal way to contact. Just to make sure at least that’s there. If you are drawn into this, chances are if you’re going to check this anyway, you’re probably going to make sure everything on this page  is right.  

**How important does this alert information seem?** 

I can see thinking one of two ways: oh what do they need from me that they need to make sure my address is right? Are they going to send me something and verify it? Or I haven’t moved since I last put my address in, so I don’t need to check it.

**(Explains how to refresh alert)**

**Looking at the Personal information page.**

**Did you notice the alert:** 

I didn’t.

**Interpretation of this alert (Personal information):** 

This one just tells me to review my mailing address. Now why they only want the mailing address and not all of my contact information. Granted if I’m in there, I would probably check everything anyway, but I don’t know why they only need my mailing address reviewed. So this (link) would either take me to it - “go to your contact information to review your address” - so that tells me what to do. So I will keep that in mind but I will scroll down here just to see what is already here. Ok what I need is not there, but I would go to this (clicks link). Again to me, even though it’s got the yellow banner, it’s… And it might be different for somebody that’s not using MyHealtheVet as much, but with MyHealtheVet, now I’m seeing this exact thing a lot. And so I know that none of that applies to me right now and I’ve seen it over and over and I know they’re changing systems and I know what to expect, so it’s just visual noise to me right now, I don’t even pay attention to it. And I think in my mind having seen it so much in MyHealtheVet, without even reading it which I didn’t do, I would just kind of assume that that’s just telling me the same thing that I’m seeing in the other thing. That’s why I didn't pay attention to it. And it’s the exact same colors.

**To recap: If you came here and your address was correct, you would leave this, is that right?** 

Ya

**Update if incorrect:** 

Correct.

**What if it was correct and you left it and it stayed there, what would you do:** 

I would still leave it, only because it doesn’t give me the option to say it looks good, no changes needed, or confirm in someway that the address is already ok, that I don’t need to take extra steps. I would like to do a simple review your address, and I don’t need to review it, I don’t need to edit it, I just need to confirm that it is ok as is. And that would just take me one click vs going into edit, going into verify, going into update. That’s so many clicks that I don’t need to do when everything already looks good.

**Even with the information above you wouldn’t want to do anything to mess it up:** 

Right, and that just comes from past experiences and distrust of the system changing things.

**So if you did leave that and the alert was still there, would you expect it to go away at some point or stay:** 

Honestly, I figure it will probably stay until I do what it tells me to do and I absolutely will not touch it - I don’t need to review it; it is already good. So I expect it’ll probably be there forever and I will probably be aggravated everytime I look at it. I can't do a one and done click about going “yep I don’t need to change anything” versus why do I have to do four clicks to do something that doesn’t need changing.

### Reset Address and Post Task Interview - 2 minutes

**Ok great, that is just about everything I wanted to get your feedback on.**

**Lastly, I'd like to make sure that we now have all of your correct information, just in case.** 

**Feedback:** You’re using sentence structure for the capitalization here and sentence structure for like Phone numbers, Email addresses, but then all of a sudden on this alert you’re capitalizing the word address, and that’s just the technical writer side of me being petty (laughs).

**Expect it to be lower case:** 

Ya, just to be consistent with the sentence structure of rest of the page.

**Other feedback:** 

No, I know again me being petty, I know a lot of computer programmers and the younger generation having your email address capitalized, some of the computer programs are in capital letters and some of the younger generation think capital letters is screaming. Some of the older generation thinks that things you can't interchange upper and lower case in emails because it might change something. I have heard the some of the older generation - the Vietnam era and the Cold War era - they’re like what happens if I put a capital letter in here. Because you’ll see some of the vanity (unsure if heard correctly) email addresses, and they don’t understand that lowercase uppercase it all just takes you to the same spot.

**Don’t expect it to be uppercase:** 

Right, only more for the fact that it’s kind of a generational question thing. And I can’t remember what program is is, but I had a lady one time that she was a computer programmer and typed everything in uppercase and a lot of the younger generation was really put off by that. She just used it because it was habit for her, but they thought they were being screamed at. 

**Lowercase is what you expect:** 

Ya only because that’s pretty standard from what everybody uses. That’s the common form everybody uses unless it’s a vanity email. 

**Anything else:** 

No, it looks good. I like this little blip here (FAQ). It's small but it actually does draw your attention to it. I can look here to know what to expect to receive and if I need to change the contact information here, I would assume it would take me right back where I’m at, but let’s find out. Oh it does not, (took to Change your address info page) now I am really confused because I thought that’s what I was doing where I was at.

**Expected it to take you where you were:** 

Ya because this now, now it’s telling me I’ve got to call all of these people (scroll down page) to change my address, when I thought that this would just kind of tie into everything. And actually that’s a good point. I have found out in the past about why I wasn’t getting things when I was like, I’m looking at my information at va.gov why am I not getting it. Well voc rehab system doesn’t talk to the va system so my address was different there and I didn’t know. I thought it was one and done.

**Not as familiar with this but that’s interesting that there are these places to contact. Not something generally known, first time seeing this:** 

Ya I would just assume that if I sign into va.gov that my address is changed. Because like voc rehab is a va program and they should have access to the va system, but they don’t. And so it was different. My education benefits address is different. They don’t always contact me from the va, so it's like uh great now I have to go do all of this.

**If it’s a different address do you want it to automatically update:**

Well, I would because it’s time consuming and frustrating to think how am I supposed to remember to call everybody to change my address when in our brain as a veteran, it’s all va. We don’t know as the leiman that champ VA doesn’t talk to VA.gov or that the VMLI doesn’t talk to VA.gov. In our brain, it’s the VA. VA has all the information and it all ties in. 

I can see where this would be goofy, because this says “change your address by contacting the department directly.” Ok, I can contact them directly, but if I change one with them, why can’t I just do one. And then I go down, and that takes me right back to where I just was. So why do I have to call all those independent places. 

And then this would tell me to just go back to where I just was. So I probably wouldn’t use this because I know I was just there, so I would click back.
 
### Observer method

**Nervous or comfortable with observers:** 

Yes. Mostly comfortable.

**Appreciate being asked prior to observers join:** 

I appreciated that. Most of us with the va, most Vets we use medical stuff, and if they have students come in they say “I have a student, is it ok if they observe and come in.” So to me it is very similar.

**Brief hellos, make you feel more at ease or more awkward:**

Nope it felt more at ease. I could visually see it was one person and not a whole board room. 

**Helpful to see them:**

Yes.

### Thank-You and Closing

**Great, thank you so much. This has been really helpful for our team, and we appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us today. Your feedback is so helpful to us as we continue to work on the site and make sure it really works for Veterans.
I hope you enjoy the rest of your day!**
