# Intro - 5 minutes

Thanks for joining us today! My name is **[NAME]** and **[NOTETAKER NAME]** is taking notes.
I also have a couple other colleagues in the Zoom waiting room who would like to observe and take notes. But before we get to them... 

Today we're going to talk about how the VA is developing a new digital way for families and representatives to schedule burials for Veterans at national cemeteries.

Before we start, I have a few things that I want to go over with you:

- **This entire session should take about 45 minutes.** I want to be sure not to keep you much longer, so I may occasionally prompt you with the next question or topic.
  
- **In this session, we want to hear your honest opinions.** There are no right or wrong answers; we are not testing your knowledge or abilities. I welcome any and all of your feedback, and I won't be offended by any criticism.
  
- **Your participation in this interview is completely voluntary.** You do not have to participate if you don't want to. Whether you choose to participate or not will not affect your benefits in any way.
  
- I know the folks who invited you to participate in this interview asked if it was alright to allow people to observe this interview, but I want to double-check with you before we get going. **Are you comfortable with observers joining?** * Yes.
   - <mark>**If no:** Use Slack to kindly ask the observers to leave the Zoom.</mark>
   - **If yes:** Admit observers.
     
> [!TIP]
> - Then, ask the notetaker and observers to **give a brief, camera-on introduction, like their first name and position with VA.gov.** (This is meant to humanize the interaction of observation for the participant.)
> - Once complete, ask the notetaker and observers to turn off their cameras for the remainder of the session to save bandwidth
     
- *(If applicable)* **You'll be interacting with a prototype today.** This is a demo tool that may not function exactly the way you expect. Some areas of the prototype will be clickable, and some will not.
  
- **Are you comfortable if I record my screen and audio as we talk today?** We use the recordings to confirm that we have captured your opinions accurately. After we complete the analysis, the recordings will be deleted.
   - **Knowing that, are you comfortable if I record my screen and audio as we talk today?**  *Yes.

   <mark>**[Record answer here]**</mark>
     
- **Would you be comfortable if we decided to use a clip of our session with you to help our partners understand Veterans’ experiences?** One of the ways that we share findings with our partners across VA is by showing short video clips. If you agree, we would only share clips that don’t include any identifying information.
   - **Knowing this, would you be comfortable if we decided to use a clip of our session with you to help our partners understand Veteran's experiences?** *Yes.
 
   <mark>**[Record answer here]**</mark>

   - If yes: **Once I start recording, I am going to confirm that you are okay with me recording this session once more.**

➡️ **Start recording.**

> [!TIP]
> After you start the recording, click the Show captions (CC) button to enable transcription for the recording.

- **I have started recording.** I'd like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record my screen and the audio as we talk today? *Yes.

 <mark>**[Record answer here]**</mark>
 
- **Are you comfortable if we decide to use a recorded clip from our discussion today to share with other VA partners if we remove any information that can be used to identify you?**

 <mark>**[Record answer here]**</mark>

# Warm-up Questions (Optional) - 5 minutes

Before we look at the website, let’s start with a few warm-up questions.

1. "Have you previously scheduled a burial? If yes, how did you do it?" *Yes I have, in 2015 and 2023. My father was a Veteran and I did it through a funeral home. Then again in 2023 for my mother and will be setting up one again for myself. 

2. "What was your experience like with that process? What worked well? *I had to download the online forms and doing phone coordination. I could be frustrating because the forms didn’t allow you to do a lot of things and then we had to coordinate the phone calls. But I had to download the forms and some people have to print them out and fill them out. 
   What was frustrating?"

# Usability Actions & Ratings

I am going to give you a scenario. You will then fill out the form as if you were this person, and complete a few taks in the prototype.
For each of the following actions, please attempt the task as you naturally would. After each, I’ll ask you to rate how easy or difficult it was.

Scenarios (alternating with each session)

**You are Bram Stoker, a funeral home representative. You are applying to schedule a burial for a deceased Veteran named Jonathon Harker.**

or

**You are Jonathon Harker, a Veteran with VA benefits. You are applying to schedule a burial for your deceased spouse, Mina Harker.** *I would click on the type of service, I assume I would start to log in or create an account. I don’t know if I have a pre-need. Maybe next to the pre-need have an “I” to see what that means. I don’t know what that would mean, I didn’t have that with either of my parents. In this case, is the person also a Veteran because they can be a Veteran like myself. Some people might not know that a sponsor is the primary person and they follow as dependents. 

---
## Action 1: Determining your relationship to the Veteran

- Please indicate your relationship to the Veteran.

**Rating:**  
On a scale of 1 (very difficult) to 5 (very easy), how would you rate the ease of determining and selecting your relationship to the Veteran?  *I hesitated because I was not thinking about Husabnd as a sponsor. It only took me a second and I talked to you about it. I was thinking of dual military households. 

1. "Did any of the labels or terms confuse you?" *No.
2. "What did the label "personal representative" mean to you?" *I assume a legal representative or family member who has the power of attorney. I would assume the funeral home has done this type. I don’t know if the funeral home would know how to answer some of these questions like the family members would.
   
<mark>**[Record rating and comments here]**</mark>

> [!NOTE]
> Things to watch for:
- Does participant understand all relationship options?
- Do they click on the "Personal Representative" accordion for definition?
- Do they hesitate on which option applies to them?
- Is the list comprehensive for their situation?
- Usage of additional help within the form, such as help components, information accordians, or external links

---

## Action 2: Entering a Veteran service period

- Please enter a Veteran service period using the interface provided.

**Rating:**  
On a scale of 1 (very difficult) to 5 (very easy), how would you rate the ease of entering a Veteran service period? *It’s easy to do in this case. It might be nice to have a menu  in the Branch of Service. 
<mark>**[Record rating and comments here]**</mark>

[If participant hesitates]: "Use your best estimate if you're not certain."
[After entry]: "How confident are you that you entered the correct dates?"

> [!NOTE]
> Things to watch for:
> - Did the participant understand what was being asked?
> - Did they encounter any points of confusion?
> - Did they make errors or need to ask for clarification?
> - Did they find the field labels clear?
> - Did they complete the action without help?

---

## Action 3: Finding a preferred national cemetery

- Please find and select a preferred national cemetery.


**Rating:**  
On a scale of 1 (very difficult) to 5 (very easy), how would you rate the ease of finding a preferred national cemetery? *I like the consistency of the windows with options is nice in terms of UI/UX. 
*I torn between liking the fact that everything is one page but I think a lot of Veterans would want it to be here rather than a pull down. If you have interaction with people who set it up, I’m torn between pull down or list. I think most people would want a list. This is fine that it opens up and doesn’t get lost. 
<mark>**[Record rating and comments here]**</mark>
Task: Please indicate your preferred national cemetery for this burial.
[Context]: "The deceased Veteran's family prefers to be buried in their home state."

Things to watch for:
- Does participant understand they're selecting a specific cemetery?
- Do they use search/filter vs. browse the list?
- If cemetery options are limited/unavailable, how do they respond?
- Understanding of what "national cemetery" means?
- Difficulty with state selection or cemetery availability? - How do they know which cemetery to choose?

Post-task probe:
- "How would you know which cemetery to select?" *I don’t know, I would copy this based on what I see here. *It would be based on what he wanted. Like my dad was Arlington because we knew what he wanted and I would find it on the list and also based on family desires. 

- "What if the preferred cemetery wasn't available?" *I would get frustrated and save my application and call someone to find out why.

> [!NOTE]
Things to watch for: * I would want more information here in the Interment details section for myself, for my parents it was a casket. I don’t know you could have a burial without any remains. It might be good to have a little “I” to educate me. 
* I think it’s great and look at, it’s nice to have it laid out and the information. 
*Do you have an option for accessibility users like screen readers and larger text? I’m fine with it but I’m thinking of my dad.
- Does participant understand they're selecting a specific cemetery?
- Do they use search/filter vs. browse the list?
- If cemetery options are limited/unavailable, how do they respond?
- Understanding of what "national cemetery" means?
- Difficulty with state selection or cemetery availability?
- How do they know which cemetery to choose?

---

## Overall Ease of Use

After you’ve completed these actions, on a scale of 1 to 5, how easy or difficult did you find using this part of the website overall? *Pretty straightforward except the types of burials with the prenames. I would give it a 4 or 5 I have trouble giving 5’s. 
*The confusion is that it shows like I’m still trying to upload the file.  I like review pages. It’s nice to look back. I would definitely download the page and print them. It’s nice to have. Maybe having an option to mail to yourself. 
<mark>**[Record overall rating and comments here]**</mark>

# Post-Task Interview - 8 minutes
- "What do you think happens now after you submit the form?" *I assume that I would get contacted or email from someone. That would be a good addition to the interface. 
- "What part of the process felt most overwhelming or confusing?" *No. I did get stumped on the type of burials. I would go back to wanting to know what those options are. 
- "Were there any parts of this form that you found to be unclear?
- "Compared to calling the VA or an in-person visit, how would this compare?" *It’s high, all great that you don’t have to go in but some people may want to go in and talk to someone. 


## Emotional & Cognitive Load Assessment

After completing the form, use these probes:

- "Did the length or complexity of the form feel manageable?" *It felt the right amount of complexity. It’s nice that you can start and finish it later.  
- "Were there any questions that felt intrusive or insensitive?" *I think for a small number, increasing the spouse or the fact there could be two Veterans in a household. 
- "Would you feel comfortable completing this on your own, or would you want help or support?" * I would feel comfortable doing it on my own, but it would be a good idea to have someone to talk to about what I’m seeing. It might be nice to have in the beginning or need help at the bottom or chat. 
  - "What additional information, help, or support would have made this process easier for you?"
- "Is there anything you wish was available on this form or in the process?" *Other than the emblems, nothing to enter in scripture. I had to write it and take and scan it. Most people would think if you’re asking me, why not have the inscription. 

Moderator notes should track:
- Emotional shifts (frustration, hesitation, distress)
- Engagement level (focused vs. distracted)
- Confidence statements ("I think..." vs. "I'm not sure...")

## Consent to use video clips

- I want to circle back and re-confirm that **you are comfortable if we were to share a video clip of this session with our VA partners?** Just to remind you, we will remove all information that could identify you.
   - **If yes:** Is there any part of our discussion you would NOT want shared in a video clip?
 
   <mark>**[Record answer here]**</mark>

## Thank-You and Closing - 2 minutes

Well we really appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us today. Your feedback is so helpful to us as we continue to work on the site and make sure it really works for Veterans.

Thanks! Lastly, Perigean will be sending you a thank you note with a little blurb that you can pass along to other Veterans you may know to provide them the chance to participate in future research studies.

Thank you so much again, and enjoy the rest of your day!

# Emergency Exit 🚨

In the rare case of an emergency during a session, be prepared with an [emergency exit strategy](https://depo-platform-documentation.scrollhelp.site/research-design/Research-Safety-and-Emergency-Exit-Plan.1622311177.html).

---

### Sample Conversation Guide _(note: this link points to resources in the va.gov-team GitHub repo)_

- [Veteran ID Card Discovery Interview](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/blob/master/products/veteran-id-cards/research/discovery/discovery-conversation-guide.md)




