Questions for Veterans

Background
- Could you tell us about your background and military service? *I’m still under contract in the Marine Corps. Transitioned to the IR about two years. 17 years in the Marines and two years in the Reserves. I was in maintenance management, I like it, I’m good at it. It involves training, I enjoy it. On the civilian side, I teach 8th graders. 
As a Reservist, when you join, you’re limited to where you will be at. Reserves is more constricted to what is available to you. Couldn’t see myself doing any of the options that were given to me in maintenance management. 
I knew I always wanted to go into education and figured I would need my Master's and that was always the plan, but the timing was to make it happen. As a reservist, you don’t get a full GI Bill, but I went and deployed and made it work and qualified for the post 9/11 and got a percentage and then that is why I went on other deployments to make it work because I knew I couldn't afford it and I knew if I got on the deployment, I could get my masters paid for because now, it’s 100% covered. 
- What has been your experience with using VA benefits? *When we came back from our first deployment, someone calculated that. I think sat us down and told us we qualify for 60% for benefits. I think I remember I went online and found a VA calculator. I found a calculator or tables, that I found. I didn’t have a hard time to figure out how much duty time I needed to fit those figures. One deployment covered 60% and then one year of active duty, you'd get another percentage. 
-How did you find those other sites? * I went online but I don’t recall where but it was all there. 
  - What VA benefits have you used and why? *No. I had a moral dilemma on using VA disability benefits. I’m certain I would rate and be able to take advantage of the disability from the VA. I know I could access those benefits, but it’s more of a do I feel worthy of using those benefits. If taking advantage of those services requires me to have documents to prove that, I don’t have that. I have not taken advantage of the home load because I have not been in that place to take advantage of that. Disability and rating seems and sound like a big ugly monster that I’m not willing to tackle, not yet at least.  
- Has there been any continuity of care? *No. It’s really on us, and it’s fair and it’s up to us to be able to balance two lives, two professions. I can see both sides to it. 
Transition Experience    
- What was the hardest part of your transition?
- Is there support that you wish you had when you separated from the military? *I don’t think so, because I look at it that they recognize that its not their responsibility. I can see that. I don’t know what that kind of support or resource would look like. Resources are limited even for me on the civilian side. I would hate to ask for something like that. 
    - If so, what type of support?

Learning about VA Benefits
- Where did you learn about VA benefits? 
- How was your experience with learning about benefits?
- What would encourage you to learn more about other VA benefits (that you may not be using)?
 - If you could wave a magic wand, what you do to make the whole benefits process easier?
-Would a step-by-step be helpful to you? * Yes, I would just need to know where that is. 
-Would be interested in all the benefits listed or be easier to have a tailored list? *That’s interesting because at Linstrom, we had a Veteran conference, and they had a pamphlet that they had where it listed the benefits. I would be interested in knowing what those options are that I didn’t know. I would like to know what is all available to me. Then decide if it’s something I need or like to use. I didn’t realize how much those options mattered until I got to an institution that cared. Their office has been wonderful and so involved. They were the first people I heard from when I got my acceptance letter. They said, “Hey, congratulations, I see you’re a Vet, let us know if there is anything we can help you.  They were incredibly involved. They helped me with my success. 
-Is there anything helpful in community building? * I do get a newsletter from the VA. I glance at it. I think it’s a national letter. I know the VA has that stuff available in sending that out. Is there is a connection there for me, probably not. There’s not a group that I am a part of. I don’t see myself getting involved with groups like that. 
I would hate for the VA to compete with groups that were already doing something like that. A specific Veteran group was taking a trip out there and I went with that group and I enjoyed it and it was a little out of my comfort zone. I know there’s a lot of organizations out there. What would it take for me to go or what I need to know, I don’t know what form is best for me. I don’t know. 
-Did you go through a TAP class? *The requirement was, we had to go through it.. There was an in-person option and an online option. A lot of us hit the online option. The struggle was it was very resume writing and very geared toward people who were on active duty. I don’t know what I could benefit from a separation class. I don’t know what it would be lacking or what it already had. 
