## Questions for Commanding Officers - 45 minutes
-Can you tell us about yourself? * I joined when I was 17 years old on an aircraft and transitioned to the reserves in the logistics airfield as a commission officer. 
- Can you tell us about your experience with supporting a service member's separation? *I haven’t had a ton of experience with that. It’s their direct commander who would have that. For mu unit, we have a checklist that tells them who they need to go talk to. After that, I think it’s a form the Commander has to sign for them to get out. More of a challenge for the unit is if the soldier doesn’t have a full green on the record, this affects more the unit not the member. 
- What resources have helped you with supporting someone's separation? *I’m sure TAP classes are offered but various programs that could be beneficial are not so well known. Like AF-cool or where you can do an internship with a company 6 months before getting out because that’s an incredible program to have that. I think it’s hard to get all the options out there and known. 
- What challenges have you faced with supporting a servicemember's separation? *I think if they are hire-up there is going to be a ceremony. It’s also up to the members if they want one or degree if it will be formal or not. There is not anything that someone has to do when they retire. There should be a more standardized thing when someone is getting out. Just to commemorate the time they spent. 
-Have you had friends that have separated? *Yes. Not that I can think of from the top of my head. 
*Have you heard struggles from your troops? I know one thing that seems to be, is medical. The disability thing where you have to be a certain percentage and it’s a challenge. 
*Have you gotten information from the VA? No, I haven’t. I have been trying. Because I had a minor shoulder injury, but they said no, not enough information. 
Yes, I’m definitely interested in the VA loan for buying a house and the education loans. I’m trying to figure out the best way to get my Masters degree. In the beginning, I used my GI and they told me that was not the best thing to do. It was hard in the beginning. 
-What system would be helpful to you to see your benefits? *I think a filtered list or website where you had an account and had a profile connected to your active duty time to find out what you’re eligible for and those sorts of things. 
-Separation process from your experience? * I think there is a lot of variation. I think as you get closer to the date. I don’t think it’s straightforward. 
-If you could wave a magic wand, how would the process look like? *The main thing is, in any process has felt like if you don’t push it and continue to push it, no one will do it for you. No one owns that. It’s not about submitting your paperwork, and someone will call you. If you don’t follow up, no one will. You have to be an advocate for yourself. 
- Beyond benefits enrollment, what's on your mind as you're helping transitioning servicemembers with separation?
