## Questions for Commanding Officers - 45 minutes

- Can you tell us about your experience with supporting a service member's separation? *I’m a chemical officer by trade. I’m in charge of 6 companies that we push 200-300 trainees. I commissioned and went to Fort. Stewart Georgia. I was at Alaska and was a company officer, then worked at the White Office for 3 years. 
They picked me. Chemistry was my worst subject in school and the needs of the Army, they chose it. If I could go back, I would put it as number one because it’s a great career field. I defend the force/army and our government from a nuclear attack. 
There was an opening and I decided to take it. It’s not career-enhancing but it’s viewed as a unit that would deploy to welfare, that commander would be chosen over me. I chose it because I thought it would be more rewarding to have an initial impact on the soldier's career. 
- What resources have helped you with supporting someone's separation? *There is a lot of ways to transition out of the army when starting. The two main avenues are medical and legal. Committed a crime or ethical violation or you’re medically disqualified while in training. For medical example, we have an obstacle course. They all possess different skills and come together to benefit overall. You see a lot of people panic on that obstacle course, there was a service member at the top of the ladder who panicked at the top and fell down and broke their back. Now, they were done. That person will now get 100% disability. Now, this member will transition to the VA. For legal, it’s different. We have a soldier who sexually harassed a female trainee, and that person is now done. It takes a lot of paperwork, and checks and balances, once guilt is proven, they get chaptered and removed from the force. That will determine if they get any VA benefits as well. No matter what, they will still go through the transition assistance program. 
-Benefits question? *At least here, it’s not something I will talk about. The Tap program we don’t really talk about much here in training. Base wide here is programmed, to go through the same program. 
-Who helps the member in the separation process? *We don’t do it directly. That’s the Tap programs coordinator. They have set classes, 5 days. What I heard about it, they talk about the claims and processes. Say a service member is getting out for behavioral health-related, they now have to set their medical appointments with their doctors to get the VA rating. That is what I heard. Education benefits, how they work, they will instruct if you can transfer benefits, if there is legal issues, they will talk about, day your discharge rating is not honorable they will instruct how to handle things like that. 
-Do you do an exit interview? I don’t have a formal exit interview. It just naturally happens. I try to talk to as many as I can. Even the Legal chapters, more so the medical folks. The reason I don’t do a formal interview is because it's not conducive. People don’t talk when they are in the Bosse’s office. 
- What challenges have you faced with supporting a servicemember's separation? *
- Beyond benefits enrollment, what's on your mind as you're helping transitioning servicemembers with separation?
-What other responsibilities do you have? * I have 6 companies, it starts with the individuals, then teams/ squad, then Platone, then a company, then a Battalion, then Brigade, then Division. I'm at the Battalion level and have 6 companies. From, doing the trainee requirements, just like graduating college. Then I trust my subordinate officers to help the trainees. I’m in charge of ethics, all legal. I’m also the Judge and the DA per say if someone breaks the law. Something as little as the morale of the unit, to ensuring the safety of everyone and everything in between is what I deal with. 
They are more directly involved, and I’m more indirectly involved. I expect them to be at all trainees and I poke around the ones that are high risk. I’m also developing them to also replace me in the next 5-10 years to get them to the next level. The most important thing for the folks staying in, I need to get them ready for war. Yes, they are in charge of training, but I also have to keep up with their skills. 
-What reasons do you see why are people joining? *I get a lot of people joining for the benefits and the other is to take care of their families. I don’t get a lot of responses for healthcare or VA healthcare. The other benefit people talk about is college, they want to go college. 
-What are the common fears you hear about the most when people get out? *They had this grand plan in basic training and now they are shattered. I try to give them examples and point them in career fields. A lot of the times they are eligible for other benefits. I suggest this, school or this take these courses if you’re interested in this. 
Time Over. 

