----

# We've moved our docs! 

### This document is no longer maintained.

### Please visit the [Platform website](https://depo-platform-documentation.scrollhelp.site/) for the latest information or contact the Platform support team via [#vfs-platform-support](https://dsva.slack.com/archives/CBU0KDSB1).

----

# VA 508 Meeting, 02 October, 2019

This document will outline agenda items created or requested by VA Digital Services and the Product Support team. It can be used as a template for upcoming meetings.

## Points of Discussion
1. Immediate action or point of focus when users press Continue on our forms and there are errors:
	* [[USABILITY]: 526 V2 error handling when users press Continue button should be reviewed](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/issues/1705)
	* This particular issue is with reading the error on hitting Continue. WCAG doesn't require you to put focus on, and read the error message on pressing Continue. Ideally, this is the case, but VA feels the current behavior to press `TAB` once to hit first error is okay. Looking to the wider 508 discussion group for further clarity.
	* Adding another team member to these calls for future questions.
2. Learn more button patterns for maximum usability
	* [Explore new patterns for Learn more buttons and expandable section buttons for all applications](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/issues/1817)
	* [Public Codepen for exploration](https://codepen.io/tpierce_402/pen/PoYVKKa)
		* The first two examples, with buttons in `<legend>` works well with screen readers
		* The third example, the button has to be a block-level element **after** the input to not cause JAWS to read it as part of the label.
		* This is problematic on GIBCT where we have a lot of `Learn more` triggers inline with our label elements. These are buttons that open a modal. Links do not have this same effect. Buttons feel like the right trigger for modals, so there's a question if we need to move the Learn more button to after the input, or look at a new UI pattern.
3. Facility Locator - Review the July audit for additional non-issues and synchronize the list of outstanding issues to fix.
4. Calendar - preliminary discussions with design and 508


## Current Quick Tests
1. Disability Calculator Beta
1. Profile: Direct Deposit Feature
2. GI Bill Comparison Tool® Colmery 107 Feature (Education benefit for schooling at remote locations)


## 508 Issue Tracking on Github
[Product list for 508 testing](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/blob/master/platform/accessibility/508-product-review-list.md)
