----

# We've moved our docs! 

### This document is no longer maintained.

### Please visit the [Platform website](https://depo-platform-documentation.scrollhelp.site/) for the latest information or contact the Platform support team via [#vfs-platform-support](https://dsva.slack.com/archives/CBU0KDSB1).

----

# VA 508 Meeting, 15 August, 2019

This document will outline agenda items created or requested by VA Digital Services and the Product Support team. It can be used as a template for upcoming meetings.

## Points of Discussion
1. VSP received the first feedback from 508 office on the Disability Calculator beta. Some questions and comments:
	* **Feedback Item 1:** Disability rating is a required field. VSP to enter a ticket and follow up with team to get the asterisk and SR-only text added.
	* **Feedback Item 2:** VSP will investigate the form error and issue a ticket for having it read properly.
	* **Feedback Item 3:** Will issue a ticket to remove the error messages on field blur. Accessibility more than compliance. Mark as lower priority.
	* **Feedback Item 4:** This is a known issue, logged as a [forms fix](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/issues/314) in VA.gov-team
	* IMPROVE: The data entry type (in 10% increments, and instructions) should be presented on the page instead of in error handling.
1. VSP discovered a bug in our forms system where checkboxes and radio groups will not read the `<legend>` if screen reader users are navigating with the `TAB` key. Turns out the legned must be the first child of the fieldset, or it won't work correctly and throws a Best Practices warning in axe. Logged as a [sitewide improvement](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/issues/767) in VA.gov-team repo.
1. The in-form "Application has been saved" message we discussed in April is in design discussion: [Application saved message could be missed by assistive devices](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/issues/182)
2. Facility Locator has a number of issues from the third-party audit in Triage. This is our team that reviews, scopes, and distributes issues to be fixed.
3. Accessibility vs. Compliance - WCAG Error Reporting, in the spec. Look into this and further clarify it. 


## Upcoming Quick Tests
1. Education STEM Scholarship feature - Internal audit done, will send for Quick Test as soon as final issues are fixed.
1. Outreach and Events- Internal audit done, will send for Quick Test as soon as final issues are fixed.
2. VET TEC updates to GI Bill Comparison Tool®. Internal audit starting today.


## Local Issue Tracking
1. GI Bill Comparison Tool - 2 open issues
2. Dashboard Recommendations - 1 open issue
3. 526 All Claims - 2 open issues
4. Track Claims and Appeals - 1 issue in progress (aXe)
5. Disablity Calculator - 1 open issue, 3 issues to be filed
