# VA 508 Meeting, 16 January, 2020

This document will outline agenda items created or requested by VA Digital Services and the Product Support team. It can be used as a template for upcoming meetings.

## Points of Discussion

1. VSA and VSP are involved with shifting accessibility consultation "left" in the software development cycle (SDC).
   * VSA is helping teams get more comfortable with inclusive design
   * VSP is building a set of low-level "smoke tests" that we'd like to start teams doing as part of the SDC, before specialist accessibility reviews:
     * axe checks using browser plugin
     * optional axe-coconut and/or WAVE checks
     * color contrast, color blindness checks
     * zooming layouts to 400%
     * basic keyboard navigation
     * basic screen reader usability
     * writing automated tests for axe checks, keyboard navigation
1. The Learn More user research has wrapped up
   * Our hypothesis about using the "Learn more" accordion to show additional information in-page was correct. Users felt it was much clearer than modal dialogs.
   * VSP front-end has a ticket to extend the Learn More component for maximum screen reader usability based on our [research](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/blob/master/teams/vsp/teams/product-dev-support/research/additional-info-tooltip-modal-usability/synthesis.md) and [Codepen samples](https://codepen.io/tpierce_402/full/PoYVKKa).
   * PPT file to be emailed after the meeting
1. Learn More research also found that the CSS tooltip was effective in limited use cases:
   * Tooltips are recommended for acronyms like DD214 that are widely understood by a segment of our audience, but would benefit from a one-line/one-sentence explanation to others.
   * CSS tooltips only. No JavaScript. Overwhelmingly the JS version was problematic among participants.
1. The error handling question in our forms [[USABILITY]: Form error handling when users press Continue button should be reviewed - #2533](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/issues/2533) came up during the discussion. VA 508 office mentioned the peer group didn't have strong feelings about leaving focus on the `Continue` button and requiring users to press `TAB` to move to the first error, or moving automatically. Given the precedent for leaving focus on the `Continue` button, we should keep an active listen for feedback and revisit if users identify it as a problem spot.
1. We shipped an `axe-core` checker for the CMS team to review their content before it's published to va.gov.
   * The checker injects a banner at the top of pages with accessibilty violations or best practice recommendations
   * Users can expand individual errors to learn more and remediate
   * A [documentation PR](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/veteran-facing-services-tools/pull/198) is almost ready to publish
1. Keyboard end-to-end helpers are nearly complete.
   * VSP had a breakthrough in a (long) blocking item for handling `<select>` menus recently, and the proof code is in our [Veteran Facing Services Tools repo](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/veteran-facing-services-tools/tree/master/packages/keyboard-e2e).
   * We're using the GI Bill Comparison Tool as a proving ground for porting these to the vets-website codebase. A PR is nearly ready, and the tests are handling our custom form elements well.
   * These helpers will be available for any development team to add mocked keyboard navigation tests to their e2e suites. Tests will run on every CI/CD production build.


## Upcoming Quick Tests

1. [VA Pittsburgh health care](https://staging.va.gov/pittsburgh-health-care/) VSA is currently auditing and will keep the VA 508 office updated when it's ready for quick test.
1. Downtime notification banner. This is going to be audited for proper consistency and we will update the VA 508 office when ready for quick testing. Since the banner is not always used, we'll be in communication when a notification is going to be up on the site.
1. Rated Disabilities has undergone a pre-launch review. VSA is working with the team to make a few improvements before requesting VA 508 quick test.
1. VAOS scheduling calendar app. VSP is working with the VAOS dev team in a running consult to test and advise. Will let the VA 508 office know when this is ready for a quick test.
1. VSA and VSP are working with several teams in the design phase of new features.

## 508 Issue Tracking on Github
[Product list for 508 testing](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/blob/master/platform/accessibility/508-product-review-list.md)
