# VA 508 Meeting, 10 September, 2020

This document will outline agenda items created or requested by VA Digital Services and the Product Support team. It can be used as a template for upcoming meetings.

# Points of Discussion

1. **Responsive tables:** VSA is working on a responsive table implementation in the CMS, starting with a simple MVP and eventually hoping to enhance functionality. This responsive table pattern is also being used in at least two other applications and will ultimately be a pattern in the design system.
2. **Document remedation:** VSP shipped the second full how-to remediation document last week. The [third is in pull request](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/pull/12954) and remaining documents will be coming along in the next few weeks.
    * DEPO is working with the Content lead to identify teams that are responsible for these documents.
    * VSP is interested in asking about the VA fact sheets (quick tips) for PDFs. Our va.gov-team repository isn't set up to house large document formats (PDFs, images) so we can't store the PDFs directly. Is there a URL or set of URLs we can put on the public repository in a document that link to these?
      * VSP would like to highlight the 10 Comply rules in a document summarizing each of them. The fix guides VSP is writing now focus on the remediation. It would be nice to have these rules outlined and summarized in a related document.
      * VA 508 is reviewing if there are contractual or copyright issues with hosting these on a public repository. Or, we can put them on a private repository, and link to that private repo from our public one.

3. **Front-end tools team work on forms-library and sitewide issues:** The Tools FE team on VSP has been working on a number of issues for the forms-library and sitewide accessibility in the past month, and we're seeing a number be closed.

   * We're still dealing with a [difficult mobile screen reader bug](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/vets-website/pull/14049). VSP reached out to the A11y Slack group for ideas, and was given this [String replacement and headings](https://codepen.io/mra11yx/pen/ZqQYxO) Codepen that recreates the issue in iOS and Android. Basically, if the text node value is only replaced, mobile screen readers will not announce the heading when it receives focus. We have tried a lot of variations and I can only see a couple of options at this point:
     * Change the heading to a `<p>` tag, which breaks a lot of semantics. It does announce correctly, at least in iOS. Haven't tested in Android to confirm.
     * Re-architect the React navigation component to always re-render the navigation in our multi-step forms and force the DOM to create a new heading node.
4. **Mobile React Native experience:** New developers coming on as mobile specialists
   * We could explore a mobile device lab, or BYOD ad hoc testing
   * Need to research and understand what / how to test React Native for accessibility
   * Animation, ability to turn these features off?
   * AirBnB accessibility experience case studies?
   * Haptics are worth investigating!
   * 508 mobile group at the VA. If we get to a point of questions, and need to ask, follow up with the 508 office for help. They have a mobile expert on staff!

## Quick Tests
1. VSP is working on the GI Bill Comparison Tool Estimate Your Benefits full audit. 
2. VA Online Scheduler (VAOS) has requested an audit of their new Express Care feature. VSP will begin work on that in the next week.
3. The COVID chatbot has been updated with the latest Microsoft chat bot code. VSP is going to re-evaluate several open issues and see if the latest version has fixed them and follow up with the respective teams.

## 508 Issue Tracking on Github

[Product list for 508 testing](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/blob/master/platform/accessibility/508-product-review-list.md)
