----

# We've moved our docs! 

### This document is no longer maintained.

### Please visit the [Platform website](https://depo-platform-documentation.scrollhelp.site/) for the latest information or contact the Platform support team via [#vfs-platform-support](https://dsva.slack.com/archives/CBU0KDSB1).

----

# VA 508 Meeting, 14 May, 2020

This document will outline agenda items created or requested by VA Digital Services and the Product Support team. It can be used as a template for upcoming meetings.

## Points of Discussion

1. **Accessible PDFs:** VA 508 Office has said the VA 508 office is looking for apps and sites to be accessible in one browser. How do PDFs fit into this scenario?
   * The Deque webinar on remediating PDFs said NVDA + Acrobat Reader was the best combination for accessible reading. Could we treat our `<a>` tags as download links for all PDFs and add helper text?
   * Could we add a `download` attribute to each PDF link, that opens a native download dialog in browsers? It would be a long-term migration effort, but we could rally around some work VSA has put into production with one of their teams.
   * VA 508 office has a contract with Common Look for training
   * Bring your own documents - VA 508 has a specialist who can remediate documents
   * Teams can reach out to VSP/VSA accessibility specialists to learn more about these programs
2. **Axe-core bump for CI/CD:** VSP is exploring bumping our automated check library to version 3.5.1, to match the browser plugin we're using on daily work. Right now there's some issues with false positive color-contrast errors, so we can't move ahead until we have that figured out.
3. **Automation efforts:** VSP (platform) is working with engineering teams to scale accessibility:
   * Adding an ESLint rule to warn developers if their e2e tests don't have an axe check
   * Adding a CI/CD rule that flags a PR for manual review if e2e tests don't have axe checks
4. **Design system audit:** We're focusing on the components in isolation. We are adding a few new tests, including:
   * Windows high-contrast mode
   * iOS screen reader
   * Emphasis on testing. We'd like to have unit tests for each component, and e2e tests for larger interaction patterns.
   * Updated documentation and one source of truth

## Quick Tests

1. VA Online Scheduler (VAOS) - ready for quick test
2. VAMC left nav - upcoming

## 508 Issue Tracking on Github

[Product list for 508 testing](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/blob/master/platform/accessibility/508-product-review-list.md)*
