# VA 508 Meeting, 13 August, 2020

This document will outline agenda items created or requested by VA Digital Services and the Product Support team. It can be used as a template for upcoming meetings.

# Points of Discussion

1. **VSA hiring:** VSA started reviewing submission materials from applicants for the VSA Sr Accessibility Designer role, and expects to begin interview this week.
2. **Accessibility Beyond Compliance:** The Accessibility Beyond Compliance Learning Session from July 24th on Accessibility Compliance GitHub documentation is complete: https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/blob/master/teams/vsa/accessibility/learning-sessions/abc04-accessibility-compliance/ReadMe.md
3. **Download link naming:**  VSA has been leading an effort to give downloadable PDFs meaningful document names for the Debt Letters application. This involved a wide-ranging discussion with the front-end and back-end engineering teams, and will help veterans find their downloaded files by more meaningful names.
4. **Forms library improvements:**
   * VSA and VSP are working on focus management for the non-linear path. We are trying to improve the experience when users press the Back or Continue buttons without making any changes, and have screen readers announce the heading every time.
   * This work was prompted by an [iOS Safari + VoiceOver bug](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/9250847/advancing-voiceover-to-a-specified-element-in-mobile-safari) where the headings are not being announced consistently. VSP accessibility and front-end tools are looking for a solution.
   * VSP and VSA are working together to improve the focus management on form review screens when users press Edit to switch from read-only to inline editing and back.
5. **Public document remediation effort:** VSP has a spreadsheet under way that they and DEPO are using to coordinate findings. VSP is also working on one page public guidance to fix common PDF issues. There will be eight in total. The first one is live on GitHub:
   *  https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/blob/master/platform/accessibility/common-issues/pdf/table-missing-headers.md
   *  VSP will be sending the VA 508 office a weekly spreadsheet export to go with the weekly 508 email updates. This week's update was missed because of a high number of audits and support requests in flight. We will resume the normal schedule next week.
   *  VSP feels the spreadsheet and these document remediation guides should fit right into the make well plan that VA will be delivering to Congress at the end of September. Let's discuss here and make sure we're aligned on this goal and the deliverables.
6. **Tree pattern question:** The Inquiry Routing and Information System (IRIS) modernization project kicked off this week. One of the things that stood out was the deeply nested topic structure. While talking with the team, I immediately thought about a [Treeview navigation pattern](https://www.w3.org/TR/wai-aria-practices-1.1/examples/treeview/treeview-2/treeview-2a.html#ex_label). This may not be what the team decides to use, but I wanted to ask what the group thought about this as a possibility, so that we might suggest it to the team during their design intent checkin.
7. **Updated end-to-end test runner:** The Tools FE team on VSP has officially moved to [Cypress.io](https://www.cypress.io/) for all future end-to-end tests written for vets-website. Cypress is a major improvement over Nightwatch. The API is much easier to use and some of the custom tests like the keyboard-e2e will be easier to recreate and extend.


## Quick Tests
1. VSA is anticipating the COVID screener app will be sent over next week for a quick test
2. GIBCT recently had their STEM standalone form run through the pre-launch staging review. VSP will send this the 508 office when it's launched and ready for a quick test.

## 508 Issue Tracking on Github
[Product list for 508 testing](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/blob/master/platform/accessibility/508-product-review-list.md)
