# VA 508 Meeting, 12 March, 2020

This document will outline agenda items created or requested by VA Digital Services and the Product Support team. It can be used as a template for upcoming meetings.

## Points of Discussion

1. **Facility Locator findings:** VA 508 followed up on the Facility Locator findings for the Mapbox SDK update. It would be good to review these briefly and make sure we're all aligned on the work still to be done. 

2. **VAOS Calendar Widget:** VSP worked with the VAOS team to make the calendar widget as solid and accessible as possible. Have a few questions:

   * NVDA and VoiceOver work flawlessly, however...
   * JAWS doesn't honor the virtual cursor `RIGHT_ARROW` into the expanded cell. Users can press `TAB` or `f` to move by focus or form input, so we added helper text and an `aria-controls` attribute. Is this enough?

3. **Templates and Content:** VSA and VSP have been working together on the VAMC Pittsburgh templates and content. We have identified some challenge points, and are exploring ways to effectively head them off. These include:

   * Auditing front-end templates and making suggestions for markup improvement

   * Working with the content creation team(s) to explore opprtunities for education and early detection of content issues.

   * How does the Comply scan detect these things, and what's the expectation for fixes?

     * Is the scan run monthly, weekly?

     * Can we run our own scans (can VSP log in and feed Comply a custom set of URLs?) This goes to a high page count that is unwieldy to run axe against individually. VSP would like to give Comply a set of URLs, and get a report out in CSV or some other data format, if possible. Is there objection to my using Comply in this manner?

       > The COR for the Attest contract recommended using Attest

     * How do we establish ownership of documents? Can Comply tell us where the issues are?

4. **Keyboard end-to-end helpers:** We're running into some technical challenges with this one. VSP has enlisted an engineer's help to finish and publish, but the test suite doesn't like to run on Windows. Working to get this resolved so we can pilot the program.

## Follow Up Items

1. VSP hasn't heard from VA 508 automation team yet. Will follow up with her and share what we have started.

2. VSP needs to capture the guidance around modal windows and get that published.

   > Modal Box Title - I have proposed the topic of the modal box to the team, we are pretty black and white to say either works if you are announcing the title and info on the type of modal/pop up/new box however it would be ideal if focus goes to the title or entire modal then the next tab/down arrow will take you to the close button. I think your first course of action changing the close button label would be a great interim solution if you are working toward the ideal solution but again either works for compliance.

3. Has there been any update about Edge Chromium? We're starting to hear anecdotes about individuals using new Edge with JAWS.

   > Edge Chomium – I have asked our Audit COR to see if this was on their 508 audit radar, I am waiting for a response however it did seem like this was new to our team, Microsoft mentioned


## Quick Tests

1. VSA Authenticated Experience - address validation audit is complete. The team is remedying the launch blocker issues now.
2. VSA Facility Locator - MVP UX/UI upgrades is being audited by VSA now
3. [VA Pittsburgh health care](https://staging.va.gov/pittsburgh-health-care/) VSP is being audited now by VSP
4. Downtime notification banner. This is going to be audited for proper consistency and we will update the VA 508 office when ready for quick testing. Since the banner is not always used, we'll be in communication when a notification is going to be up on the site.
5. VAOS scheduling calendar app. VSP is working with the VAOS dev team in a running consult to test and advise. Will let the VA 508 office know when this is ready for a quick test.
6. Appeals Modernization Act has been sent to VA 508 for review by VSA.

## 508 Issue Tracking on Github

[Product list for 508 testing](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/blob/master/platform/accessibility/508-product-review-list.md)https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/blob/master/platform/accessibility/508-product-review-list.md)
