# VA 508 Meeting, 10 February, 2020

This document will outline agenda items created or requested by VA Digital Services and the Product Support team. It can be used as a template for upcoming meetings.

## Points of Discussion

1. **508 and header/footer injection:** We currently use Javascript to inject VA headers and footers into some non-VA sites. Someone has brought a 508 issue to DEPO's attention. The representative would like to discuss (at a high level) where our responsibilities might be in this regard.
2. **Modal window (proposed component update):** Our modal window component sets focus on the Close button first, then the next text block is the heading. VSA and VSP have been discussing this, and thinking it'd be better to announce the modal heading first, then the close button, then the rest of the content. Would like to discuss with this group before sizing the effort with engineering.
3. **On this page (new component):** VSA and VSP are looking at an extensible component for the Design System and static pages. Research has gone into three key success metrics:
   * Semantic HTML using the `<dl>` definition list construct
   * Cleanly adding `tabIndex="-1"` to the target headings so IE11 negotiates them correctly
   * Removing or avoiding smooth scroll, preferring instant "jumps" instead. VSA's research and consult with other experts has determined this the best way forward.
4. **Keyboard end-to-end helpers:** Being piloted with the Facility Locator team in the upcoming sprint. This represents a lot of work done so far, and a way to identify further improvements and extensions to the helper suite.

## Follow Up Questions

1. VA 508 representative mentioned introducing VSA representative to the integration and the mobile group, to help with testing, possibility of demoing scenarios for our teams
2. Has the 508 office tiger team provided feedback or additional tools for automated testing accuracy?
3. Is there a checklist the VA 508 office prefers when running quick tests?


## Upcoming Quick Tests

1. Rated Disabilities is ready for a VA 508 quick test. VSA will send credentials and test URL.
2. Authenticated Experience address validation is being audited now by VSA.
3. [VA Pittsburgh health care](https://staging.va.gov/pittsburgh-health-care/) VSP is being audited now by VSP
4. Downtime notification banner. This is going to be audited for proper consistency and we will update the VA 508 office when ready for quick testing. Since the banner is not always used, we'll be in communication when a notification is going to be up on the site.
5. VAOS scheduling calendar app. VSP is working with the VAOS dev team in a running consult to test and advise. Will let the VA 508 office know when this is ready for a quick test.
6. Facilities Locator UI/UX upgrades. VSA is working with the team to review the work.  Will let the VA 508 office know when this is ready for a quick test.

## 508 Issue Tracking on Github

[Product list for 508 testing](
