----

# We've moved our docs! 

### This document is no longer maintained.

### Please visit the [Platform website](https://depo-platform-documentation.scrollhelp.site/) for the latest information or contact the Platform support team via [#vfs-platform-support](https://dsva.slack.com/archives/CBU0KDSB1).

----

# VA 508 Meeting, 9 July, 2020

This document will outline agenda items created or requested by VA Digital Services, DEPO leadership, and the VSA/VSP accessibility specialists. It can be used as a template for upcoming meetings.

## Points of Discussion

### VSA Public Websites

1. **Find VA Forms Search** - The team is completing the requirements to submit the Full A11y & 508 Office Audit, and I expect to send this work in the next week or two.
2. **Yellow Ribbon Tool MVP** - The team is working through their testing for the full accessibility audit request.

### VSA Facilities

1. Collection of Facility Locator enhancements — Staging review wrapping up this week, and full accessibility audit expected to follow, as all enhancements are in production.

### VSA Additional Items

1. We had our first VSA A11yChamps (accessibility champions) meeting last week, and the first 12 people are working through the curriculum: https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/blob/master/teams/vsa/accessibility/a11y-champs/readme.md#vsa-a11ychamps-program
2. Providing support to the CTO team creating a VA covid-19 screening tool. The team is completing the request for a Full A11y & 508 Office Audit now.

### VSP VA Online Scheduler

1. VAOS Quick Test, issue #2 Continue button being non-deterministic after selecting an eye care type. The team issued a fix for the ticket and PR below, but I noticed during testing the timing is off, and our "Continue" text is being read after the next page loads. I'll follow up with the team and correct this issue.
   * https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/vets-website/pull/13221
   * https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/issues/10267

### VSP GIBCT Section 103

1. VSP is still working with the team to resolve the issue where JAWS + IE11 reads the wrong information when accordions are expanded and collapsed. VSP still believes this is an issue with the `aria-hidden` attribute being toggled True or False, instead of just using `hidden` or `display: none;`.

### COVID-19 Chatbot

1. Microsoft pushed a big code update this week and VSP was notified two of the tickets I contributed to should be closed with this new work. I'll follow up with the Thoughtworks team and re-test when they have those in a staging environment.

### VSP Public PDF Scan Review

1. VSP will take a look at the www.va.gov scan after this call and schedule some time with the 508 office to review and capture public PDFs that need remediation.
2. VSP a11y specialist will ensure their access to Comply is restored. The Deque rep mentioned a couple of names at VA if they were still having trouble logging in.

### Design System Audit

1. The design system accessibility audit is complete. We have logged all the issues into the [Vets Design System Documentation](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/vets-design-system-documentation/issues) repo on GitHub. The Design System Council will triage and prioritize issues from there.

## 508 Issue Tracking on Github

1. [Product list for 508 testing](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/blob/master/platform/accessibility/508-product-review-list.md)

