# VA 508 Monthly Call

## Agenda for March 17, 2021

### WCAG 2.1 Groundwork

- Martha - Accessibility roadmap for 2021!!!
- Trevor - Noah and Trevor are starting work soon on the Platform guidance for WCAG 2.1. We’re tracking all of these things in a GitHub issue. You’ll need to sign into ZenHub or install ZenHub for GitHub to see the nested child issues:
  - https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/issues/20806
- Trevor - The VA Mobile team has offered their accessibility testing plan to VSP for all teams building web products. 

### VA Mobile App
- Martha - Solidify a contact with the Blind Veterans Association
- Meli - Claim uploads are an important part of the app, but is a challenge while building in React Native.
  - Taking pictures of things is hard.
  - Edge recognition -- is the document in frame? 
- Jose - Native mobile auditing. Don’t test for 2.1, but do test for WCAG2.0 on Android and iOS devices.
- Angela - VO user, offered to help live test

### Design System & Forms Library
- Trevor - Action Links are being rolled out! Teams are making a conscious effort to treat links as links visually and semantically, and reserve buttons for local state changes. Action links are a primary call to action that navigates to a new URL and announces as a link to assistive technology.
  - Props to Josh and Crystabel on our Design System team for their work making this happen!
  - https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/issues/21417
  - https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/issues/21416
- Josh - VSA and VSP are exploring a one question per page pattern similar to what GOV.UK is doing on a lot of their forms:
  - https://design-system.service.gov.uk/patterns/question-pages/
  - https://design-system.service.gov.uk/get-started/labels-legends-headings/

### Automation
- Noah - Wrking on an ESLint rule to warn developers when their Cypress end-to-end tests don’t have at least one axe check: https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/issues/20124
- Noah - Exploring Cypress real events ( https://github.com/dmtrKovalenko/cypress-real-events ) to expand keyboard-e2e tests to include native mobile events like tap and swipe. This will bode well for WCAG2.1
- Trevor - The Nightwatch accessibility tests are adding 3-4 minutes to the build every time a VAMC is brought online. We’re looking at ways to balance the need for good accessibility test coverage with maintaining build times that can handle steady growth.
  - Trevor is working with the Frontend Tools team to get a report out of the build server logs.
  - The Testing Tools Team has built up unit tests for our content templates that can include axe checks for HTML accuracy.

### Recent Audits
- Salt Lake City VAMC - Angela
- Eastern Oklahoma VAMC - Angela and Trevor

### Additional Discussion
- Linsey - Heading levels - follow up with the VAOS team to see if this was changed or tabled.
- Linsey - VA best practices - focus visible for non-actionable items. Team has brought up this discussion point.
  - No focus, but a tab stop
  - Focus cannot disappear if it’s on the page no matter if actionable or not
- Martha - Kiosk field research happening at Durham, NC VAMC. Trauma informed design and VA social workers to offer suggestions and feedback to Martha’s work. Veteran advocate too.
  - Are apps and kiosks mutually exclusive? Mr. Sheehan says they’re not. Alternative means (fundamental alterations, best meets) include tablets, phones
  - Kiosks source from 2008. Hard to program or service. Text to speech, but don’t work as well as they should. Had issues previously, probably still do.
  - Website on iPad might be an alternative means. BYOD.
