----

# We've moved our docs! 

### This document is no longer maintained.

### Please visit the [Platform website](https://depo-platform-documentation.scrollhelp.site/) for the latest information or contact the Platform support team via [#vfs-platform-support](https://dsva.slack.com/archives/CBU0KDSB1).

----

# VA 508 Monthly Call
## Agenda for April 21, 2021

### Introductions
**Trevor - agenda outline**
Introduce Meli and Noah’s discussions
Handoff to Meli, then to Noah


### VA Mobile App
**Meli - Review the accessibility documentation and testing plan VA mobile team has adopted for the app**
* Testing plan
* Quality assurance (functional, accessibility success criteria)
* Anything else you’d like to speak to
* Questions and comments

### WCAG2.1
**Noah - Speak to the work being done on WCAG2.1. This could include:**
* Reviewing new success criteria
* Discovery
* Documentation
* Questions and comments

### Automation
**Noah - Working on an ESLint rule to warn developers when their Cypress end-to-end tests don’t have at least one axe check:** 
* https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/issues/20124
* Questions and comments

**Trevor - Update on Nightwatch testing**
* We’re running tests in parallel now, to shorten the build step
* Finishing an update to let teams modify tests for individual pages
* Questions and comments


### Recent Audits
* VSA - Profile 2.0 
https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/issues/15247
* VSA - Debt Resolution Online Form
https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/issues/22685
* VSP - STEM Automated Decision
https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/issues/22544

### Todos and Follow Up Items
* Blinded Veterans Administration is interested in reviewing this app. We have a contact provided from the VA 508 office.
* Bess and Meli to talk to Ad Hoc about getting Test Flight installs to them
* Linsey and Jose will help any way they can. Jose has access, when close to being completed, submit a support ticket (info to Martha)
* Martha wondering do need signoff before shipping?
* 508 office leadership asking about scope -- what are we looking at? Purely mobile app intentions, not for kiosks yet.
* This app is meant for veterans to individually handle claims (get status), get secure messages to/from provider, if you have to make profile updates, appointments scheduled are shown, stuff I need to know or take action on right now.
* Jose has requested access to the presented doc
* June 7th is the target launch date. We don’t want to hide it, but don’t want to promote too heavily before we give Blind Veterans’ Association access to try it out.
* Support ticket starts the VA 508 process. 508 leadership is keeping Marylou and Jose in the loop. Linsey is aware and ready to help.
508 office leadership asked if Deque might add anything to the testing process, or if they need to be added to the team. Will take that offline within the VA 508 office and let us know. End goal is for it to be as close to 100% as possible and however we get there. Speed is an essential part of this process.
* Martha has floated the kiosk project as a possible first WCAG2.1 project
* 508 office leadership says the Access Board is going to be talking about kiosks on May 19th
  * Don Overton of BVA talking about kiosks as they relate to VA
  * VA Accessibility Act, get kiosks handled because they’re part of this act
* Linsey asked about the Deque mobile app tester if it has WCAG2.1 rulesets
  * Mary Lou says newest version of Deque ruleset, will share with us
