# P1

## Warm-up Questions - 5 minutes
Now, I’m going to ask you to think about your very last medical appointment that you actually went to the VA facility for.

- Can you describe checking in for that medical appointment? As it stands right now they require us to check in no later than 5 -10 minutes prior. They control who is going in. First thing that I do is going to the kiosks and putting in that I am there and going through all of my infomration which is a waste of time. You should only have to confirm. They make you pout in the DOB then goes into confirming the birthdate. It should already be there; it is a bit over done with that. Then it will provide a piece of paper stating I am checked in either upstairs or dowel stairs at the savannah clinic. Then we go and wait for them to call us. Normally it is within the time frame that we should eb there like 900 it may be a minute after wards. If you are there past 10 – 15 minutes past scheduled appointment sometimes it gets close if they are really busy. Other than you that wait for them to  come get you to go back. 
- 1 central check in: Yes, there are about 5 kiosks downstairs and only 1 upstairs so everyone uses the ones below. There are still checking to see if you have a fever and asking the covid questions. 
- Don’t have to talk at the front desk: not unless you have a question about something or want to make sure the system has you checked in. you just go sit and they come out to call you back. There are some specialty places you don’t need to sit like eyeglasses. IF you need them heated up you can just walk in and do it for you. If you are there to get glasses you have to pull a number ticket.  Some have a difference but primary and specialty have a normal routine. 
  - Overall, how would you describe that experience? Was it a good or bad experience? Easy or hard?
    - What did you like about it? I like all of it. I don’t think it is that bad except having the over done part about DOB. They have fine tuned the check in. you check in so much, we know what we have to do when we walk in the door. Sometimes there are issues but a lot of the time there isnt. If you get there early you wait longer but other than that they have gotten it down to almost a science. 
    - What did you not like about it? No. well there are some inconsistencies but that’s after seeing the door. It is checking out so that the difference. Because you may have another appointment an hour later, you can check in for both at once if you have two or more appointment in the building you can check into all of them at the kiosks. 
    - Check out, don’t like: I think they need to watch more carefully the timeframe because sometimes I checked out of one then have to rush to get to the next one so I didn’t miss it. I got out at 10 when I went in at 930. Theni had another 10am so I had to ask them to hurry up because I had another one at 10. I think they need to be careful about that because then we have to run to get to the next one. Apparently they don’t know each other’s schedules so maybe there could be something that if a doctor knows that I am still at my prior appointment to warn them or provide an alert that I have another appointment so theres no conflict. 
    - Alert to let them know you are stuck in another appointment: right
    - Check in all at once: yes but that doesn’t mean the doctor know when I finish at my other appointment. last time I went to the eye doctor we went over the time I was supposed to have another appointment. I can rush it because he ahs to check everything. Maybe it wasn’t thought out on my part, maybe I should have pushed it further to allow myself more time to go from one to the other appointment. 
- You checked in via [the method they mentioned in the previous question], what method do you use most often? Kiosk. It would be a headache if they weren’t there because it would put patients against the system. Could you imagine the line with people trying to figure out when they need to be there and two appointments and you have to wait so by the time you check in through the line you might be 5-6th on the list. Then you are behind in appointment time. 

# Usability - 30 minutes
## Poster
- Can you explain to me what we're looking at here? Like if you didn’t know about it and you saw this. I would be a bit ticked off about it. if they are doing this and taking the kiosks away, can you imagine how many people wouldn’t be able to doit. Some of the older generations that don’t understand, then you would need someone to get it to you if in a wheelchair. What if your phone doesn’t work at the moment or almost out of minutes. I think this would cause more issues than the current system. 
- Would you try this: IF I knew I was getting it ahead of time with an email with this on it. letting me know this is how I needed to check in but if it caught me by surprise and saw this. This are asking to update all of your infomration see a staff member instead. Why would you need to do that if checking in. 
- Have you seen this when checking in: yes I think there are 4 different items but they have already done it so they just go straight on through and say yes or no. then after that they ask you to check in with a staff member, if using a phone to check in why go see a staff member. 
- What an email: yes so people can do this. Send an email to people for checking out the new application. I think they could know how to do it before hand so when they get their they will know they need to use their phone and it will show where they go. Not everyone has the scanning ability wither so they might have to use the number. 
- Is there anything missing? I think the double check in with a staff member doesn’t need to be there. How does this work with multiple appointments, would you need to go back and check back in with another appointment you have and maybe only have 5 minutes because the current appointment ahs taken longer. I am not sure I would like the check in with a staff member. If that’s the case that’s fine. You might want to write check in with a staff member only if you need to update the information because some people would think they need to still see the staff member before the appointment. The statement could be rewritten to only see staff member for check in if you need to9 update your information. Everyday that someone comes in that would confuse me, when I first read it that’s what I thought. 
- Seeing this poster, what would you do next? So I would like that number up there. I am not sure I know where to put the new message in. my android has conversations and a little doohickey, then a search then view all. That’s not right. Oh okay, I think its up. I know my cameras on now. 
- Should have gotten a text message with a link: can you give me the number again. It says the automated system doesn’t understand the text. It came back and told me check in for the va appointment at (link) 
- It tells me the link to check in and I will hit that. It comes up and gives me a select action. I guess that is part of the android system. Theres the first screen. Need to see it again. It says put in your last name. then the last 4 of the SSN. Then at the bottom it says to continue. Now it asks if I need to update any information, should I say yes to see what happens or click no. 
- Try either.  
- This is where it tells me to check in with a staff member, it wont let me check in. it says contact us and different veteran ser4vices. If I don’t need to check in with a staff member to update information it tells me back to main screen. We would go back then try the no. Then it comes up with my appointments. 
- I have three appointments at 930, 10 and 1pm. The check in is at the third one. I had two other appointments ahead of cardiology. If I click check in now it would check in all three. I will click check in and see what happens. It tells me I am checked in for my 1pm and they will come get be from the number 4 waiting room when it is time to start. 
- At this point, I would like you to share your screen, so we can watch you complete the task mentioned on the poster. [Only prompt them if need be in order to complete check-in.]
- Now, I'm going to have you go back through check-in again. This time I'll ask you some questions at each point in the process.

## Text Message
- What changes would you make to this text messaging portion of check-in? It worked fast. I was surprised with what it did. I was a little impressed. Its not bad at all I thought it would be cumbersome. Once I put in my name and SSN. Then hit to the next screen it was fairly fast. It immediately brought me to my appointments. When I clicked on cardiology I was able to check in and that was it. I don’t know how many people are still computer literate. A lot of people would need to have a caretaker there with them to do it. if you are handicap and cant do it then you would need a caretaker to work the system for you or someone that isnt computer savvy they would need help. If they get stuck they would need to go to the infomration desk and ask them to help. It may require more caregivers than the prior system because they would need to check them in from the phone. It would work for the majority but in cases there would be handicap people or individuals that aren’t computer savvy it would freak them out. I have seen people getting frustrated. 
- Text made sense: yes

## Check in at VA
- Can you explain to me what we're looking at?  It is asking me the same that the kiosk but the kiosks takes you through a bit more. It asks for DOB, this does not it asked for last 4 of the SSN and last name. I think that’s good. 
- DOB or SSN here: For me it would be the last name and last for of the SSN. 

## Contact/insurance
- Can you explain to me what we're looking at? I like that page. When is aw it and it asks if I need to update anything then provides the link to say yes or no I don’t need to then takes you onto the next page. If you click yes then you have to go see the staff member instead of on the app. There is a need help down there but I am not sure where it takes you oh it says ask a staff member. As long as the staff member has a good working knowledge of the screens it would work well. Most people wouldn’t need to update the information unless they got married, divorce or changed insurance. I like the screen. 

## Your appointments
- Can you explain to me what we're looking at?
- What are your thoughts about what this page is showing you? It is absoutely great. The old system gave us the appointments but you need to go back to ask for the other appointments, on the kiosks you have to go back and reset the kiosk and check in for the other appointment. here it give you all of them. Most people would want to see it there. 
  - What do you think you have to do to check-in for another appointment (after you already checked in for one)? I like it, that way it does not confuse you by having to check in all at once, some people wouldn’t mind it and then as you come out of one appointment you go to the second. It would work both ways. 
  - What are your thoughts about seeing these other types of appointments on this page?
    - an appointment you already checked in for.: Yes
    - an appointment that is past the time where you are able to check-in for from your phone: Oh the value is good; I can see that. The first two, 930 it would be late then one at 10. That would be a conflict. It would be less time at the 93-0 then the  because the next one is at 1.
What do the other ones mean: the value is great, I could grab lunch and come back. The primary doctor’s office, I noticed they have a statement that says you can check in 30 minutes ahead of time so I like that. The 4pm, that appointment isnt eligible for online check in so the time frame between these are important. You need to check in with the staff member. It simplifies it for me. 
Still valuable: yes they most definitely are. Just the reasoning for why you cant check in online is valuable enough as it is. As it stand now you don’t know. If you are sitting there no one tells you anything until it is 10-15 minutes past the appointment. the  you go to the staff member and ask what’s going on. Then that’s how you find out. 
Virtual appointment: yes a lot of my mental health are by video. 
Expect those to show up: I don’t see why not. It would make it a lot easier and then the little instructions that is under the appointment is super valuable because you can plan the time better. I would know I would need to be there early to check in and if it is video then it tells you is by cctv or something like that. You could be ready for that. They are doing that now put it costs a lot for them to send out the mail cards. It would cut down on the cost if you had it on your phone. They call and send out the card and everyone is printing it out with the appointment that doesn’t provide much..
A place online would be better, have you seen the appointment list on va.gov: yes all the time and I get an alert when something happens to my appointments. 
Va.gov or myhealthevet: myhealthevet. The main screen in ebenefits I can go to health and it takes me to appointments and they automatically comes up. I only need to click on it once. I found it out my luck when exploring the site. it takes you to all of your needs and it works perfectly for me. 
an appointment that you are too early to check-in for from your phone.
Confirmation page
What would you do next to check in for another appointment? This page it tells me I am checked ion for my 1pm but at the bottom it says go to another appointments if I go to the next one I could than check in for that as well. It provides all of my next appointments. I can check in for the next one now. I like that. Its good.
Expected: yes
What if it’s a few hours now, how would you check in for the next appointment if your phone is off: Before I went for lunch I would check and see if I can check in. I would check in knowing that all I needed to do what go sit in the area. I wouldn’t need to go through the system on check in. 
Post-Task Interview - 5 minutes
Now that you've seen the whole experience, what are your impressions of the experience? I would really like to try it to see how the app is loaded for everyone. I don’t know if they will pick out certain places to beta test it. that might be a good idea to make sure there aren’t and kinks in it especially when having back to back appointments. 
If you could change one thing about the experience, what would it be?
Do you have any other thoughts on what we talked about today?
Any questions for me?
Thank-You and Closing - 2 minutes
We really appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us today. Your feedback is so helpful to us as we continue to work on check-in and make sure it really works for Veterans, so thank you for your time.
Lastly, do you know any other Veterans, caregivers, or service members who might be willing to participate in a future user research session? If Yes: Thank you! I'll have our team send you an email with a little blurb that you can pass along.
Great, well thank you so much again, and enjoy the rest of your day!
