# P10

## Intro - 5 minutes
- Start recording.
  - I have started recording. I'd like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record my screen and the audio as we talk today? Absoutely, that’s fine. 

## Warm-up Questions - 5 minutes
Now, I’m going to ask you to think about your very last medical appointment that you actually went to the VA facility for.
- Can you describe checking in for that medical appointment? Once I got in after the covid screening I went through the security office then the specialists office. Then I verbally gave them the last name and Ssn and waited in the waiting area for less than 10 minutes. It was pretty fast. Sometimes I get in quick and others they are running late. I have never had an extremely long wait time. 
  - Overall, how would you describe that experience? Was it a good or bad experience? Easy or hard?
    - What did you like about it? that it was quick because I had to be at work. I try to get appointments early or anything that works with my schedule. I am in the city and commute. I have never had issues with scheduling and a long wait time. Labs is a bit longer wait and it is a walk in clinic but that is understandable that it would be long due to it being a walk in clinic.
    - What did you not like about it? I have never had a bad experience. I get adjusted once a month for my spinal injury. I haven’t had a long check in from when the doctor sees me. 
    - Kiosks: I haven’t seen the kiosk since the pandemic. I haven’t seen one in 1.5 years. I normally always go to a scheduler at the front desk area. 
- What type of mobile phone do you have (iPhone or Android)? iPhone less than two years old. 

## Usability - 30 minutes
### Poster
- Can you explain to me what we're looking at here? So it looks like because I have used this before. You can text the number which check in which is pretty clean and clear. Or I can use my QRF reader and scan the barcode. I just accidentally did it and it says check in. It seems pretty easy. 
- Did you click: I scanned it and it says check in, it seems to be like I checked in. it just says check in I cant tap it or click on it but it says I’m checked in
- Thinks you’re checked in: I would like to think that but it doesn’t say you’ve checked in. I can assume I could but I don’t know 100 percent by looking at this. 
- What are your thoughts about what the poster is asking you to do? It is clear cut; I think for someone that has issue with tech may have issues. I know what a qrf code is, it is self-explanatory to text check in to a number so that’s an easy way. I guess that eliminates handing the card or providing information to a person. It is easy to understand. 
- Is there anything missing? I don’t think a lot of people would understand the qr reader if they don’t have the app. For me to scan it I have  it as an app. The flip side of that is that it is easy to text check in. I know people over 75 that know how to text so I think they can handle that. 
- When I click messages its blank but then it says check in. it doesn’t auto fill like someone that you are already have programmed. When I click share it ahs an option and I click text app and it pulls the number and text field but nothing in the to field. Okay that worked, compose message to that number. That’s a better way then using the qr app. When I used the phone camera instead of the app, I didn’t know that the camera read them like that. It is convenient and pops the number into the to field and check in in the text field. It sends me a link to check in. I didn’t know my iPhone does that. That is user friendly. 
- Check in process: So as I clicked the link it brought me to check in at va, I type in last name and last 4 of the SSN. That’s pretty easy. Need any update, no, and it says I am checked in with the doctors name because you can forget if they get moved around. Then it list which appointments to check into. I will click on cardio. Then I am checked in. that was pretty easy. 
- Now, I'm going to have you go back through check-in again. This time I'll ask you some questions at each point in the process.

### Text Message
- What changes would you make to this text messaging portion of check-in? it is clear cut to click the link, you are prompting the user to click to check in. when its on the phone it is suer friendly for last name and last4. Any appointment you have is listed so you find it and check in. I did not know that the qr code could eb used with my camera. Now I know that I will probably do that. Other than that it is self-explanatory. I see where it can get rid of the manning situation the va is facing during covid. I enjoy talking to someone so they know I amt here because often in certain offices the front person goes and gets the doctor or calls them to tell them but as far as this I think this is pretty easy to do. 
- Expect: please have a seat and the doctor will be with you so I would wait until someone came to get me. 

### Check in at VA
- What are your thoughts about what this page is asking you? It is self-explanatory what you are required to check in with a person they ask the last 4 and last name so it’s the same information you have to provide to a person. I don’t personally have an issue with this but I know people are weird of putting their ssn into things. If this is secure I don’t think people would have an issues. 
- Would you prefer to enter in the last 4 digits of your SSN or your date of birth here? The last 4, a lot of military members or veterans are used to that when checking in. even when you are active duty you provide the last 4, it leaves less room for error as well because people can mis up the date in the field. I feel like it would eliminate error. 
- Is there anything missing? No I think this is great, it eliminated the in person communication. It provides people with the they have checked in and good so they can just check in and wait. 

### Contact/insurance
- Can you explain to me what we're looking at? 
- What are your thoughts about what this page is asking you? It says to check in with a staff member so I can’t update anything without talking to a person. I think that’s a good thing because I moved and I know the va website, the address can be completely different than the one that the va has. To be updated at the local hospital it is best to talk to someone to make sure it is what it should me. I have changed it through the va website and it did not update until I talked to someone there entered it into the system. Talking to someone in person is a better idea. I know at least when I did it prior it was not linked to the va.gov website. 
- What if it connected everywhere: that would be awesome since I moved the last 1.5 twice. It lets me know that the prescriptions would be mailed to the right place. It would provide a peace of mind that everything would be sent to the correct address. 
- Is there anything missing? Honestly when checking in it is easy, with some procedures being different I think it depends on the office handling the appointment. When I had surgery I needed a covid test two days prior and the check in was different for my sugary than other appointments. this is suer friendly for basic appointments. I don’t see anything missing that would make me question it. I had to go to a special location on the second level, it wasn’t hard but I had to physically fill out if I had someone taking me. surgery is a bit different than any other appointment than I have ever went to the va for. 

### Your appointments
- Can you explain to me what we're looking at? It has all of the appointments I have, that’s a lot for one day. It says I have already went to one, its late so I can’t check in to something I already went to. Then the remaining appointments I have left to check in for. That is self-explanatory that you cant check in until 30 minutes prior. Its good it will only allow you to check in 30 minutes prior. I think if it didn’t someone would just check in to all of them. Then the non-check in appointment you might need the in person check in which is more important than just sitting and waiting. 
- Value: yes it is listed by day and time so you know where to go if you have a lot of appointments. I think that helps the veterans that cant process unless they have it or are being sent 6 different places within the va. It is self-explanatory. I like that the doctor or team is listed because at one point I had my primary women’s doctor was switched and I didn’t know the name. then a few months later I didn’t know her name but got an appointment. So having the name or team and where you need to go is good. It points you to where you need to go. 
- Anything missing: everything I need is here but I know some people don’t know where to go. If I don’t know where I am going I just ask the front desk or if I am in a new building I would just ask. Maybe have the floor and room listed so the patient knows where to find the office. Maybe that’s what mod 4 is but for some people it provides peace of mind when in a large building. 
- What are your thoughts about what this page is showing you?
  - What are your thoughts about seeing all of your appointments for the day on one screen?
  - Number: I just try to find people. I have called and tried to call before and I am just send back to the hotline number. For vets that is frustrating to navigate to get ahold of someone. I don’t have an issues with asking for help. I have called the number many times and got nowhere with it. people switch offices and number. I just try to find a person. 
- What do you think about the possibility that there are multiple appointments eligible for check-in right now, but only being able to select one to complete check-in.
  - What are your thoughts about seeing these other types of appointments on this page?
    - an appointment you already checked in for.
    - an appointment that is past the time where you are able to check-in for from your phone.
    - an appointment that you are too early to check-in for from your phone.
    - an appointment that isn't eligible for online check-in.
- Is there anything you would like to be able to do or see on this page that currently isn't available?
  - Why?
- Have you ever had a virtual (video or phone) appointment? yes the primary care for women’s clinic, I couldn’t go in but they used the video platform to talk with eh doctor. 
  - Would you expect or not expect virtual appointments to be a part of this check-in experience? I wouldn’t expect it to be because its in another platform, it would be user friendly to link that to here. To check in for the appointment, talk to doctor that way. That would elevate going into the doctor. When checking in I think I just clicked the link and checked in. that was user friendly as well. I normally check email first and it has always been good. I don’t know if it would be stream link to put the links here as well.it would be convenient. In the past I just click on the link in my inbox. 
- Is there anything on this page that isn't useful to you? No all of the information is here I don’t feel like there’s nothing needed. The time, location, check in time. I think all of the infomration is needed. 
- Check in now button: I mean could I try to check into both of them. The thing is if it wont let you check in 30 minutes before and they are 30 minutes apart, I think if you are running late you shouldn’t be checking in for the next appointment if you are still at your prior one because you are stuck in another appointment. I do know veterans that would press check in for everything if they could. I don’t see the issue for access to check in for some , I personally wouldn’t check in if I weren’t ready. I think most people would check in for one at a time. 
- Have you ever scheduled an appointment on VA.gov? I have and I have the app on my phone. I have had to cancel through va.gov and recently just cancelled it because I just started a new job. I hate to say it but prioritizing the job to the appointment. I have never scheduled through there I always schedule before leaving the va. There has been a few times when I just needed to get to work so I relied on them to call to schedule. I have never used the app to schedule. I just make sure they are scheduled while still there so I know it is scheduled or rely on someone to call me. 
  - If so, what you do think about this appointment list versus your experience with VA online scheduling? So I feel like I am looking at them now on the va app. It is self-explanatory you can add it to the calendar and get directions. It is more detailed. 
  - Added: no I mean I had to cancel my upcoming appointment and I have to call to reschedule but I don’t think anything in the app for the appointments, I don’t think they are different. The app lists everything for the day and the appointment is listed for future appointments. I feel like if I need to know for a month or two from now I can forecast whereas obviously if you are checking in you are there for that day. Nothing is missing form one to the next. 
- What do you think you have to do to check-in for another appointment (after you already checked in for one)?
  - What are your thoughts about that?

### Confirmation page
- What are your thoughts about this page? It gives directions to wait for the appointment. it is obvious I checked in so you get warm fuzzy. Everyone likes the check mark, if I want to go back it can direct me to the other appointments. I clicked on it and cant because you would need to click check into another appointment. It is self-explanatory, good directions
- Is there anything missing? No they will come get you when its times. If you need help you can ask the staff member. I don’t think there’s anything else you could put on here at this point. 
- [Make sure they close their prototype before asking this question] You have now checked in for one appointment. Pretend your next appointment isn't for another few hours. Maybe you went and grabbed lunch in between appointments. Describe to me how you would check-in for your next appointment:  I mean I guess at the point I would scan the code again and go through the stages when I first checked in. I assume it was a code posted by the office. Or I would text the number again. 

## Post-Task Interview - 5 minutes
- Now that you've seen the whole experience, what are your impressions of the experience? Well I think it is great if it eliminated the interface. I don’t want to say it’s one less thing to do at the va but for some people its important. It is user friendly so I would do that. I know the medical professions are understaffed because of covid. I think knowing everything I see in the past year and going 6 times since covid started. I see why this is a good thing to have and understanding they don’t have people to constantly wait on people. With that respect it is efficient. For me if someone is there and I am show up, I will check in that way. It depends on the situation. I like to talk to people if they are there. I know theres a million reason they can’t be there. There could be facilities where waiting rooms are farther or to many people checking in at once so I see how it could be useful. 
- If you could change one thing about the experience, what would it be? Honestly I don’t think I would change anything. In the beginning when I wasn’t sure how to scan the code because I used an app that didn’t work how it should have worked to take me there. I would text if that didn’t work. I wouldn’t change anything; it was my failure because I didn’t know how to scan. I know people sue the qr for information and everyone knows how to text. 
- Additional information on how to scan: I didn’t do it right so that might be good. Maybe use camera to scan the code or information on how to scan using your phone. The app is great, there are appointments sometimes I don’t even remember it was scheduled three months from now. The va app is a pretty great thing to have for vets. You can reference the past appointments as well so if no one’s called for the next appointment you can look back and follow up. 
- Do you have any other thoughts on what we talked about today? No, it is a convenience to have to check in. the fact everything is listed and can see if you have a full day which some veterans try to schedule everything at once. It is good that it is all listed out to know where they are going. With older veteran, they get overwhelmed and I’ve seen them lost if they don’t have someone to guide them. Assuming they could look at the schedule it would be good for them to reference. 
- Any questions for me? no I think I would really sue this because sometimes theres a lot  of people checking in and asking questions. 

## Thank-You and Closing - 2 minutes
We really appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us today. Your feedback is so helpful to us as we continue to work on check-in and make sure it really works for Veterans, so thank you for your time.

Lastly, do you know any other Veterans, caregivers, or service members who might be willing to participate in a future user research session? If Yes: Thank you! I'll have our team send you an email with a little blurb that you can pass along.

Great, well thank you so much again, and enjoy the rest of your day!
