# P11

## Intro - 5 minutes
- Start recording.
  - I have started recording. I'd like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record my screen and the audio as we talk today? Yes. 

## Warm-up Questions - 5 minutes
Now, I’m going to ask you to think about your very last medical appointment that you actually went to the VA facility for.
- Can you describe checking in for that medical appointment? The last time I went to the desk and you stand in line and give them the name and they check you in and you sit down. It is straightforward just like any other office. 
  - Overall, how would you describe that experience? Was it a good or bad experience? Easy or hard?
    - What did you like about it? it is fast. You know I don’t think theres anything wrong with it. I have checked in with the kiosk but I normally just give them my name. 
    - What did you not like about it? no its fine. 
- You checked in via [the method they mentioned in the previous question], what method do you use most often? If theres a line where staff is I would use the kiosk it just depends on which was available first. 
- What type of mobile phone do you have (iPhone or Android)? I have an Android. 

## Usability - 30 minutes
### Poster
- Can you explain to me what we're looking at here? You’re looking at a qr code and to start checking in you can scan or text. 
- What are your thoughts about what the poster is asking you to do? I think it is modern and it is even at restaurant to look at the menu. I think it is great for those that use the phones in that way but the generations like my husband would be lost. 
- Is there anything missing? I think its fine. 
- Checking in process: I would scan it and tap it to write the message. I tapped there, it says check in and I hit send. It comes up with check in for va appointment and a link to click on that. I get a message to ad prototypes. It has a screen that says last name and last 4 of your SSN. It asked if I need to update infomration like address or number, if yes I click yes but  hit no. for my appointments today are listed (reading page) first one said it started more than 10 minutes ago and I have to ask a staff member, the 10am I checked in at 955. Cardiology says check in now and 130 says check in now, 3pm says you can check in at 230, 4pm mental health isnt eligible for online check in and to check in with a staff member. I clicked checked in, I am checked in now. They will come get me from the red clinic waiting room at appointment time. 
- At this point, I would like you to share your mobile phone screen with your laptop computer, so we can watch you complete the task mentioned on the poster.
- Now, I'm going to have you go back through check-in again. This time I'll ask you some questions at each point in the process.

### Text Message
- What changes would you make to this text messaging portion of check-in? No I think it is good. 

### Check in at VA
- What are your thoughts about what this page is asking you? It is asking my last name and last for of my SSN which you give when checking in, in person anyways so it is fine. 
- Would you prefer to enter in the last 4 digits of your SSN or your date of birth here? SSN is good, I am used to doing that. Its fine. 
- Is there anything missing? I don’t think so. 

### Contact/insurance
- What are your thoughts about what this page is asking you? Its asking if anything ahs changed and if I need to I have to click yes. 
- Pretend you moved so click yes: it says check in with a staff member to update information. 
- Thoughts: Well my thoughts are if I had to update infomration then instead having it a yes or no it should have just told me if I need to update infomration then to go to a staff member instead of the question. 
- Is there anything missing? No other than what I just said. I don’t think it should be a yes or no question unless you are able to update it on the phone. To me if you need to update it then you should check in with a staff member instead of the yes or no question. 

### Your appointments
- What are your thoughts about what this page is showing you? I like that it has all of the appointments there, the time, where to go and the doctor. I like that it ahs everything on one page. 
- What do you think about the possibility that there are multiple appointments eligible for check-in right now, but only being able to select one to complete check-in: So within a timeframe that I can check in maybe an hour before. I think its fine. Since it says check in now I assume that you check in with one then the next one you have to wait to check in a few minutes later or closer to that time I assume. 
  - What are your thoughts about seeing these other types of appointments on this page?
    - an appointment you already checked in for: it tells you checked in; it lets me know I actually checked into it. it tells me right there I did
    - an appointment that is past the time where you are able to check-in for from your phone: I think it is because if it weren’t on the page you wouldn’t have known you missed it and it tells you what to do because you missed the start time. 
    - an appointment that you are too early to check-in for from your phone: I think so. I mean yeah it’s a good idea because some people get in way to early so it is a reminder to check in. 
    - an appointment that isn't eligible for online check-in: that fine because it tells you what to do, to check in with the staff member. 
- Is there anything you would like to be able to do or see on this page that currently isn't available? Not that I can think of. 
- Have you ever had a virtual (video or phone) appointment? I have. I have had a phone appointment. 
  - Would you expect or not expect virtual appointments to be a part of this check-in experience? I think it would be a good idea since it is part of what you are scheduled for it would be good to have it on there as well. 
  - Where to start the experience: I would think it would be at the clinic where you are at. If you are there and theres the sign, you’d be at the clinic I assume. 
- Is there anything on this page that isn't useful to you?  I don’t see anything. 
- Have you ever scheduled an appointment on VA.gov? I have not. 
  - If so, what you do think about this appointment list versus your experience with VA online scheduling? Myhealthevet yes.  Not that I can think of. 

### Confirmation page
- What are your thoughts about this page? I think its good, it verifies that you have checked in and where you need to be and that they will come get you when it is time. 
- Is there anything missing? I don’t think so. 
- What would you do next? I would go sit in the waiting area and wait for the nurse or whoever comes and gets you. 
  - If you don't know where to go, then what would you prefer to do next call or talk to a staff member? Walk up to the staff member. 
- [Make sure they close their prototype before asking this question] You have now checked in for one appointment. Pretend your next appointment isn't for another few hours. Maybe you went and grabbed lunch in between appointments. Describe to me how you would check-in for your next appointment: I would go to the location where it should be, I guess the cardiology department and do the same thing. See the sign to text or scan and repeat the process. 
  - What are your thoughts about entering your last name and last 4 digits of your SSN again to check in for your next appointment? I would expect that. 

## Post-Task Interview - 5 minutes
- Now that you've seen the whole experience, what are your impressions of the experience? I like it, I think it is great when use to using the cell phone for a lot. My husband uses a flip phone for him it wouldn’t work but I like it for myself. 
- If you could change one thing about the experience, what would it be? I like how it is set up I think its pretty good. 
- Do you have any other thoughts on what we talked about today? No I don’t think so. 
- Any questions for me? Nope. 

## Thank-You and Closing - 2 minutes
We really appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us today. Your feedback is so helpful to us as we continue to work on check-in and make sure it really works for Veterans, so thank you for your time.

Lastly, do you know any other Veterans, caregivers, or service members who might be willing to participate in a future user research session? If Yes: Thank you! I'll have our team send you an email with a little blurb that you can pass along.

Great, well thank you so much again, and enjoy the rest of your day!
