# P14

## Intro - 5 minutes
- Start recording.
  - I have started recording. I'd like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record my screen and the audio as we talk today? Yes 

## Warm-up Questions - 5 minutes
Now, I’m going to ask you to think about your very last medical appointment that you actually went to the VA facility for.
- Can you describe checking in for that medical appointment?  It is my worst experience ever. Prior to this one I had very good success for checking into many appointments. This one was requested by my PCP, the confusion started when I got a call to schedule 2 appointments 1 at 1pm and then 1 at 130 without details. I got in 15 minutes prior to the first, that was at 1245, didn’t get called in for anything until145. I waited an hour and when I got in to see the doctor, I went into their office with my wife and sat down and he looked at me and asked why I was there. I was taken back and he just wanted me to restate my issue so I did that and then all he could offer was explaining what the issue could be. 15 minutes later he was done. He is a part time doctor and he seemed very causal about it and I got no benefit. I reported it in secure massager to my PCP and all they said was sent the information to orthopedic and see what they said. I haven’t received anything. I was told I needed two appointments, either exams of various parts that were having issues and that’s all the information I was given
- Same provider: I didn’t know, all I was told was that I needed to come in before the 130 appointment because the first appointment was at 1pm. It was very confusing. 
- Talk to nurse prior: No. 
- What did you do to check in: I went to the desk and explained that as far as the document infomration I had it was a 130 appointment but on the phone the scheduler told me I needed to be there for a 1pm then followed by the 130pm. That’s all I had to work on
  - Questions asked: no in fact the person that checked me in went back to the offices and came back with the understanding that it was confirmed for 1pm and 130pm then I waited an hour and the doctor came and got me and that was it. 
  - Normally talk to staff to check in: yes
  - Kiosks: yes some of them are still in use. I went to one for my next appointment which was physical therapy and checked in on the kiosk. 
  - Overall, how would you describe that experience? Was it a good or bad experience? Easy or hard?
    - What did you like about it? typically theres no line so I put in my card and answer the same questions. 
    - What did you not like about it? no
- You checked in via [the method they mentioned in the previous question], what method do you use most often? Go to the kiosks.
- What type of mobile phone do you have (iPhone or Android)? Android. 

## Usability - 30 minutes
### Poster
- Can you explain to me what we're looking at here? Yes, I did that for a recent appointment and I didn’t get a response in a timely manner so I went in. I never got a text back. Only tried once, it didn’t work so I didn’t try it again. 
- What are your thoughts about what the poster is asking you to do? It is asking me to try a different check in process. 
- Is there anything missing? I am not sure I follow the question in terms of you will have me use the different check in process. 
- Information you’d need to know or questions: No. 
- Check in process: at this point I would use the phone to start the text to check in. I didn’t do the text. Oh okay. I am not sure I know how to use text. After the text is put in now would I dial a number. That’s what I would do next. Okay a link to check in comes up, click on the link. okay, check in at va, (reading page) last name, Last 4. I don’t know what it’s doing, I pushed go but I don’t see anything happening. I don’t know where else to look. Click continue. Do you need to update information, no. appointments for today(reading page) I could click on check in now for any of those that are there. You’re checked in for your 1pm. 

### Text Message
- What changes would you make to this text messaging portion of check-in? okay so I was here with that text message. No it seems pretty clear, theres a link and it’s the only choice I have. 

### Check in at VA
- What are your thoughts about what this page is asking you?  Well its similar to checking in with he kiosk. 
- Would you prefer to enter in the last 4 digits of your SSN or your date of birth here? I prefer the last 4. 
- Is there anything missing? Well no. the only thing is that it wasn’t clear to me I needed to scroll for the continue. There should be something that tells me, then theres the need help. That’s pretty clear. 

### Contact/insurance
- Maybe you moved and need to update infomration, thoughts: check in with a staff member to help update infomration prior to your appointment. Well I would think it would be online like it is with everything else. 
- Click back: the back button on my screen.
- Thoughts about overall question: It is clear, I either want to or I don’t. 
- Is there anything missing? No. 

### Your appointments
- What are your thoughts about what this page is showing you? At first I didn’t know what time it was working off of. I am surprised the first two weren’t highlighted to check in for. 
  - What are your thoughts about seeing all of your appointments for the day on one screen?
- What do you think about the possibility that there are multiple appointments eligible for check-in right now, but only being able to select one to complete check-in: That’s okay once you understand that’s what you need to do. My first experience I just described with orthopedic when I attempted to check in I was earlier than 15 minutes and the system told me I was to early. That was the first time I experienced that; I didn’t know there was a time limit. 
  - What are your thoughts about seeing these other types of appointments on this page?
    - an appointment you already checked in for.
    - an appointment that is past the time where you are able to check-in for from your phone: no showing me what is already done doesn’t show the value because it is past. Once I did the check in for the 1pm there wasn’t a chance to check in for my 130. I guess after my 1pm then I need to come back. Then there are other appointments that aren’t highlighted for check in until they are within 30 minutes. 
    - an appointment that you are too early to check-in for from your phone: I guess I don’t have a question of those that re not highlighted to check in for. I think if they are already completed they shouldn’t be listed. 
    - Do not want to see if it is in the past but if it is future want to see it: Yes. 
    - an appointment that isn't eligible for online check-in: Yes. I mean the ones that don’t have a highlighted check in, its too early to check in for. Oh I didn’t read it. (reading page) okay but why is that, why wouldn’t you be able to check in. Yes I would want it on the screen. 
- Is there anything you would like to be able to do or see on this page that currently isn't available? Well I supposed a more frequent visits I go to the pharmacy so maybe something added that would be helpful to check into the pharmacy so I can get a head start on time to whoever will check me in. 
- Have you ever had a virtual (video or phone) appointment? Yes I have had both of those. 
  - Would you expect or not expect virtual appointments to be a part of this check-in experience? Yes. It’s still a scheduled time. It is another reminder that I have a phone or virtual appointment. 
  - Where located when checking in: well if I am successful with the text than I would expect to be able to check in from the car. 
- Is there anything on this page that isn't useful to you? I think it is all useful which is similar to what I would see on a kiosks. 
- Have you ever scheduled an appointment on VA.gov? appointment list I have looked at, I don’t do it on a regular basis because it is on email as well. I get reminder emails that list all appointments so I don’t need to go on
- Myhealthevet: yes. 
  - If so, what you do think about this appointment list versus your experience with VA online scheduling? In general all of the appointment lists would be useful if they say what the appointment is for instead of just the time because different appointments are in different places. 
  - Anything to add in our appointment list: I think this is more useful than what’s online. 

### Confirmation page
- What are your thoughts about this page? The next thing below the checked in is go to another appointment. why would I want to do that. 
- Click it to see what it does: Again it just lists the appointments and provide an opportunity to check in for my 130.
- Thoughts: as long as I can check in I might as well now
- If able to you would check in at the same time: yes. They are all on sight so I might as well check in all at once and then go from one to the other. 
- Is there anything missing? No I think it is straightforward. Once I do the second check in I am done. 
- What would you do next? I would grab coffee and wait until its time.
- Va next step: I would go to the waiting area for the appointment and wait to be called. 
  - If you don't know where to go, then what would you prefer to do next call or talk to a staff member? I would prefer to click on ask a staff member so I don’t need to call. 
    - What if the phone number was for the main VA call center?
- [Make sure they close their prototype before asking this question] You have now checked in for one appointment. Pretend your next appointment isn't for another few hours. Maybe you went and grabbed lunch in between appointments. Describe to me how you would check-in for your next appointment: It is two hours away. Well if I was successful in checking into all of the appointments I would just do what I can do and make use to the time in between then go to the next waiting area. I don’t thinks theres much choice, you have to come back closer to the start time and do it again
- Start form poster or text, webpage: I would bring up the webpage again to check in. I wouldn’t want to go through texting in because I am already here. 

## Post-Task Interview - 5 minutes
- Now that you've seen the whole experience, what are your impressions of the experience? Its pretty clear and straightforward. I am good with it. 
- Compares to kiosk and staff member: here I don’t need to wait in any possible line. If theses no kiosk and theres only the counter it could be a delay. Its not normally long though. 
- If you could change one thing about the experience, what would it be? Well I guess I am not a fan of texting anyways. I don’t find that texting I am here adds value. I might as well walk in and go to where I think I need to go and take care of check in that way. 
- Sounds like get rid of texting and talk to a staff member: I don’t understand the questions. 
- Do you have any other thoughts on what we talked about today? I guess with eh covid experiences that are changing it would be helpful to know if the appoint I know is open to having my wife with me. if not than she might as well just stay home. 
- Any questions for me? No, I think once you learn the process it is pretty simple. 

## Thank-You and Closing - 2 minutes
We really appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us today. Your feedback is so helpful to us as we continue to work on check-in and make sure it really works for Veterans, so thank you for your time.

Lastly, do you know any other Veterans, caregivers, or service members who might be willing to participate in a future user research session? If Yes: Thank you! I'll have our team send you an email with a little blurb that you can pass along.

Great, well thank you so much again, and enjoy the rest of your day!
