# P15

## Intro - 5 minutes
- Start recording.
  - I have started recording. I'd like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record my screen and the audio as we talk today?

## Warm-up Questions - 5 minutes
Now, I’m going to ask you to think about your very last medical appointment that you actually went to the VA facility for.
- Can you describe checking in for that medical appointment?  going in they checked me for covid at the door, had me go to the monitor for my temperature then okay, then got a sticker and went to stand in line at the desk. I think they had 6 different people at a desk behind glass and little walls between them. You never know which will call you because you cant see them and even if they acknowledge that you are there. I know they should allow people to come in. 
- Check in with staff: yes I checked in with a staff member I haven’t gotten my va card yet. it is a pleasant experienced but not knowing who to go to due to the layout of spaces they are at. This is the CBOC. I know the location, just when you sign in you stand 10 feet away from where they have the people sitting and they are behind glass with little walls between each so you cant see all of the people or know when they are calling you. 
  - What did you not like about it? Nothing bothers me to the point I don’t like it. they are doing the best they can with what they have. 
  - Kiosk check in: I have used them to check into the departments at the hospitals. 
- You checked in via [the method they mentioned in the previous question], what method do you use most often? Mostly with the staff member because I don’t have a card for the kiosk. 
- What type of mobile phone do you have (iPhone or Android)? Android

## Usability - 30 minutes
### Poster
- Can you explain to me what we're looking at here? It is a qr code and it says to sue your phone to check in with text or scan the code. That is pretty basic and simple. 
- What are your thoughts about what the poster is asking you to do? I think that would be a big help. It tells you if you have to make changes to infomration you need to see a person so that helps out. It is a small amount of information that someone would be interested in reading instead of a long paragraph of information. It is basic. 
- Is there anything missing? Maybe if you don’t have a phone to see a staff member. Not everyone has a smartphone, my brother has a flip phone
- An option not mandatory: yes. 
- Check in process: I would go to my qr screen. There it is. I scanned it and it says I checked in. that’s it. it only showed me a few seconds at the top that I checked in. I don’t know if you set the time on that but it maybe be a little longer because people may not know it shows there
- Think you checked in: yes
- This time touch the check in message: I touched it and nothing happened. 
- Lets try the text: it came back with check in for your va appointment with a link. I just clicked on that and it has this page. I am going through without showing you. I came to the doctors appointments with the times. Check in now, checked in, checked in at 1pm Est, we will come get you from the cardiology red clinic red waiting room when it is time for the appointment to start. 

### Text Message
- What changes would you make to this text messaging portion of check-in? It says check in va appointment at, after the at something may need to be added to push the link. I didn’t know to push it to continue on. I use text a lot but I dint know I needed to hit that. Maybe something underneath to click that. Right now some people at least I would think with all of the phone hacks and they tell you don’t click links you don’t know. This looks like something that may download to my phone and take control of it
- If it’s a va or usa.gov feel different: yes. I know https is a secure internet address but a lot of vets are older and may not know that means it’s a secure address. 

### Check in at VA
- Can you explain to me what we're looking at? It asks my last name and SSN. 
- What are your thoughts about what this page is asking you? It is basically the same information that you give someone when you are checking in with an individual. It is nothing different than doing that. 
- Would you prefer to enter in the last 4 digits of your SSN or your date of birth here? My last 4. 
- Is there anything missing? It is showing me the typical va page. 

### Contact/insurance
- Let’s pretend you need to update infomration, thoughts: I touched yes and it tells me to check in with staff member. 
- What are your thoughts about what this page is asking you? The way the world is and how its changing and everything. This should be check in with a staff member or update your ebenefits. The way the world is changing they don’t want contact with other people. If I don’t have to talk to the person behind the desk I won’t. Tell them to go to ebenefits because you can update the information there. Ebenefits to me is great I love it
- Update it there before: yes
- Easy: Oh yeah. Every time I go it asks you and I go through to make sure everything  is right and continue to do what I need to do. It is probably already on here where it has the contact us or you could put ebenefits update. 
- Like a link: Yeah to me that would be really easy. 
- Click back on browser: on the browser, I didn’t see a back button on the page. I see search, sign in.
- Behind that: oh back to last screen. Normally I look at the bottom, instead of it being at the top have it at the bottom of check in with staff member. Then they will know they can go back to the last page and they don’t need to update the information. 
- Is there anything missing? I don’t think next of kin needs to be on there. Maybe it should be the name because people get married and take next of kin
- Update next of kin when checking in with staff: I don’t believe so. 

### Your appointments
- What are your thoughts about what this page is showing you? The back to last screen should be at the bottom. (reading page) If you went to the 930 appointment there should be something on the bottom that says it was completed and the next one if they are completed then they should have completed. 
  - What are your thoughts about seeing all of your appointments for the day on one screen?
- What do you think about the possibility that there are multiple appointments eligible for check-in right now, but only being able to select one to complete check-in: I think to check in for one appointment at a time when other say check in now. I don’t know the standard time you can check in early but if it is 30 minutes prior then this should come up at 1230 for the 1pm appointment instead of check in now because someone might go check in to all of them and get confused. Whereas if that comes up that they can check in that would be better for them and understand that they are checked in for that appointment. they could just be finishing up at one appointment and knowing it will take them 15 minutes to get to the next and want to make sure they are checked in
- Check in for one at a time: yes. 
  - What are your thoughts about seeing these other types of appointments on this page?
    - an appointment you already checked in for: I think that shows that you are confirmed checked in. (reading page) it is saying you checked in so the person knows that the app worded and registered in the computer that you are there. 
    - an appointment that is past the time where you are able to check-in for from your phone: I know that I have stood in line to check in with someone for 15-20 minutes and I could arrive there 10 until the appointment but waiting to check in it could go past the 10 minute mark. If they are late it should be need to check in with staff member. Not telling them that the issue is that they are late because I would be poised off. I wasn’t the one that was ten minutes late. At a prior appointment is the one that I would be 10 minutes late but I wouldn’t be if I stood in line. Then if I get this telling me I am late and cant check in I would be mad. Maybe they should just let me see a staff member if I can still get in the appointment
    - change wording: yes. 
    - an appointment that you are too early to check-in for from your phone: Yeah you can do that, telling them that earliest check in time is 1230. You can display that. 
    - an appointment that isn't eligible for online check-in: That’s straight to the point. It says why it isnt able to check in online and to check in with staff member. That would be great. 
- Is there anything you would like to be able to do or see on this page that currently isn't available? No it looks complete. I am a little confused on the search menu and sign in. where will it take you to. I am not really sure what I would be signing into. What menu would come up; I have no idea what it would show me. I don’t think it needs to be there. When you are in this box to check in, you aren’t trying to log into ebenefits. You aren’t trying to do that there are other webpages to do that. With the va insignia it makes someone think it is a real page and haven’t went someone where else as they are going through. It was on all of the other pages prior to this. 
- Streamline header: Yes. I am just saying you are only using this for appointments. 
- Have you ever had a virtual (video or phone) appointment? I have had virtual appointments 
  - Would you expect or not expect virtual appointments to be a part of this check-in experience? I wouldn’t expect it to, the virtual appointment you get the link and check in there. This would be something that someone need to get their phones, scan the code to check in where maybe if there was something to show that you are checked in. on zoom messages it shows you are checked in and waiting on the meeting to start. They have that on regular va appointments as well and it says that someone will eb with you in a moment when it starts. They know when you get that message when checked in and zoom meeting will start. I know my last two zoom meetings one for sleep apnea and eh could see and hear me, I could hear him but couldn’t see him. The other one was for my pain doctor and she could see me and I could see her but she had to call me to talk to each other. This is not something they need to sue to check in for that. 
- Have you ever scheduled an appointment on VA.gov? I look at it on myhealthevet and the emails. 
  - If so, what you do think about this appointment list versus your experience with VA online scheduling? No I cant think of nothing. 

### Confirmation page
- What are your thoughts about this page? I like that it tells you where to go and the waiting room but the wording on the bottom. When its time for your appointment to start. At the top it says they will come get you. It might be something like someone will be with you or a staff member will be with you when we are ready. I don’t know it says when its time for the appointment, if its at 1pm they don’t always come get you at 1pm they may wonder why someone didn’t come get them. 
- Is there anything missing? Theres no go back to last page. Even though it says go to another appointment. it doesn’t tell you that you are going back to the last page
- Want to go directly to list: yes. 
- Why: Because that’s where your next appointment will be so you checked in at this one and your next one is under this one.
- Want to hit back: yes. 
- What would you do next? I would think there would be something to tell me to close the app and I am done with this specific check in. Right now it says I checked in and I don’t know what else to do with this page. I don’t know if I should close it. if I close it, it will take me off the appointment list. Then it should say maybe rescan the code to check in to next appointment 
- See this and then what: I would just go back to my messages. 
  - If you don't know where to go, then what would you prefer to do next call or talk to a staff member? it says here if you need help ask a staff member but you have the contact us here. If someone is new to it they may think of hitting contact us and that would be someone in the office. Maybe I over think things too much My wife says I am to detail oriented 
- [Make sure they close their prototype before asking this question] You have now checked in for one appointment. Pretend your next appointment isn't for another few hours. Maybe you went and grabbed lunch in between appointments. Describe to me how you would check-in for your next appointment: I would go to where the appointment was and scan the code to check in. 

## Post-Task Interview - 5 minutes
- Now that you've seen the whole experience, what are your impressions of the experience? I think it would be great. I mean a lot of people at least form my observation don’t go to the kiosks because they aren’t computer literate it scares them. I do see a lot of older veterans playing on their phone so they are more familiar with their phones. The poster answers my question about what it is for.  Looking at this now, it says use your phone to check in for the appointment. It should say scan qr code. Maybe up at the top under appointment it could say scan this code. Here where it says on the phone, it might want to be or text the number to check in. now that I understand it a lot more. You might what that. 
- If you could change one thing about the experience, what would it be?
- Do you have any other thoughts on what we talked about today?
- Any questions for me? I would use this a lot more than anything else. 

## Thank-You and Closing - 2 minutes
We really appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us today. Your feedback is so helpful to us as we continue to work on check-in and make sure it really works for Veterans, so thank you for your time.

Lastly, do you know any other Veterans, caregivers, or service members who might be willing to participate in a future user research session? If Yes: Thank you! I'll have our team send you an email with a little blurb that you can pass along.

Great, well thank you so much again, and enjoy the rest of your day!
