# P2

## Intro - 5 minutes
- Start recording.
- I have started recording. I'd like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record my screen and the audio as we talk today? Yes 

## Warm-up Questions - 5 minutes
Now, I’m going to ask you to think about your very last medical appointment that you actually went to the VA facility for.
- Can you describe checking in for that medical appointment? well it was on July 6th, 2021. I was called in; I volunteer to drive the van. They call me in for a physical to make sure I am fit. They gave me an appointment for 1040 then another for 10am but it didn’t say where it was for. I went to the volunteer office; they didn’t know for sure either so they sent me to the office then told me it was changed to 11am. Then I also had an ekg ordered, it was a cluster I was all over the hospital. I think more information would have been better. I finally got someone to point me in the right area, they did lab work but they didn’t tell me that I would be. It was probably effected because of what I had for breakfast. 
- Staff member not kiosk: they are still blocked off due to covid so I had to go to staff members
  - Overall, how would you describe that experience? Was it a good or bad experience? Easy or hard?
    - What did you like about it? I like the personal contact; they can tell you where to go and who to see. 
    - What did you not like about it? no I don’t believe so. 
- You checked in via [the method they mentioned in the previous question], what method do you use most often? I have used the kiosks in the past even in the Dubois. Theirs have been clocked to due to covid. I talk to staff more often.
- What type of mobile phone do you have (iPhone or Android)?

## Usability - 30 minutes
### Poster
- Can you explain to me what we're looking at here? The poster itself is telling you how to check in with the QR code and it would tell you where to check in. 
- What are your thoughts about what the poster is asking you to do? I guess it would be okay, I don’t know how it would work without testing it. its not difficult to understand I think. 
- Is there anything missing? No I think you could use this to check in. 
- Seeing this poster, what would you do next? I have the QR code on my phone so I can actually use that. I guess it’s a QR reader. It is basically saying to check in. if I were checking in if it were an active site it would let me check in. its not doing anything. Let me try this. Okay here we go, that is total different. I assume if it were active if you click check in it would take you further but when I touch that it wont do anything. It popped up with the number and the below it has check in. then it sends a text and I got a check in for va appointment link. I don’t know if you can see that or not. then further down it’s a web address. Touch that then put in last name and last 4 and routine which is what I would expect it to do. I guess I was confused by the qr code, I thought I had to sue the qr reader instead of using the camera. I have already had it on my phone because its useful. I think that would work well. When you check in like that does it go to someone and tell them I am there. 
- I would put my last name and last 4 then continue,. I assume it would let them know I was there. I click no for the update. Here are the appointments for today (reading page) it is giving you the different appointments and checking in. I would go to cardiology and it has checked me in for the 1pm appointment at the red clinic waiting room. 
- At this point, I would like you to share your mobile phone screen with your laptop computer, so we can watch you complete the task mentioned on the poster.
- Now, I'm going to have you go back through check-in again. This time I'll ask you some questions at each point in the process.

### Text Message
- What changes would you make to this text messaging portion of check-in? No I don’t believe so. I think it is a smooth operation if it works well.  

### Check in at VA
- Can you explain to me what we're looking at? I cant get back to the link for some reason. 
- What are your thoughts about what this page is asking you? It is a standard va check in but with last name and last 4 and then continue with va resources. Theres links you can click on if you need more help with something. Other than that it is straightforward, I don’t see anything wrong with it. 
- Would you prefer to enter in the last 4 digits of your SSN or your date of birth here? Either one would be acceptable. My experience with the va is that the last 4 is the identifier. 

### Contact/insurance
- Can you explain to me what we're looking at? 
- What are your thoughts about what this page is asking you? From my own experience I would check no because there is very little change for me. I don’t see where I would make changes. 
- Pretend you do, thoughts: it says check in with a staff member to update. I can’t actually change it on the app and have to check in with the staff. That seems reasonable. 
- Is there anything missing? I really can’t see anything that would need to be added. 

### Your appointments
- Can you explain to me what we're looking at? Well what I am seeing is the appointments (reading page). The only one that it says my appointment started 10 minutes ago cant check in online and for the 1pm and 130 I can check in now. 
  - What are your thoughts about seeing all of your appointments for the day on one screen? It is comprehensive. Like the one I checked in on it tells you where to go. That would be very helpful considering my last experienced. I can’t imagine having all of these appointments in one day.  It tells me when I can check in, that is very helpful. 
  - Expect labs to show up: again that would eb helpful and it would tell you where to report. There was no information and when I stopped at the desk they sent me to another building and then back to the other building due to lack of information. I am glad to see this. 
- What do you think about the possibility that there are multiple appointments eligible for check-in right now, but only being able to select one to complete check-in.
  - What are your thoughts about seeing these other types of appointments on this page? Again it would be helpful and knowing when and where you are supposed to go is extremely helpful and hope it goes through. 
    - an appointment you already checked in for: yeah, well we checked in at 930 and it started 10  minutes again. 10 I checked in at 955, then cardiology hasn’t been checked in for. I checked in for the 930. 
    - an appointment that is past the time where you are able to check-in for from your phone: I think it is valuable to know you weren’t able to check in online. 
    - an appointment that you are too early to check-in for from your phone: well I can try to check in now for the 1pm. The one I mentioned was the 3 pm but cant check in until 230. 
    - Valuable: well if you are there all day you’d see that and say you cant check in so time to go to lunch. 
    - an appointment that isn't eligible for online check-in: the last one for mental health at 4pm tells me to check in. do I go to mental health or kiosks. It should tell me to check in with a staff member at (insert department)
    - needs more clarification: Yeah. For me it would be helpful
    - any changes: no I don’t believe so. 
- Is there anything you would like to be able to do or see on this page that currently isn't available? I can’t think of anything I think it is comprehensive. 
- Only being able to check in for 1: I don’t see a need to check in all at once, if I know where my appointments are I can check in individuals based on the timeframe. I think that is fine. 
- Have you ever had a virtual (video or phone) appointment? Not with the va no, with my PCP during covid. 
  - Would you expect or not expect virtual appointments to be a part of this check-in experience? Well if it was deemed needed for it to be virtual you should be able to check in if I go to that site. it could show up there and then they would know I was ready to go. That would be handy I suppose. I am not a fan of virtual appointments; they cant check my lungs or heart. I have declined those as well because to me it is a waste of time. I go so they can monitor my diabetes. I am just not a fan. you can converse but sitting across the table and physical interaction is more important. 
- Is there anything on this page that isn't useful to you? You would be ok if it was removed: No I think there isnt an excess of information. It has all of the information I need for that day. I can’t see anything I would take off or add. I think it is pretty good. It is pretty handy. It really is. 
- Have you ever scheduled an appointment on VA.gov? No
  - If so, what you do think about this appointment list versus your experience with VA online scheduling? You can look ahead on myhealthevet to verify appointments. I printed it off for my wife this morning and thought I needed a copy as well. I had it printed here but all it does is tell me where to go to. My next on in is Dubois but when I get there I know I need blood work so I would go to the lab. If I had this I could check in while I am walking it and I would be ready to go. 
  - Want to do it form the car: I would think so as long as theres a link
  - We assume you are there in the waiting room, thoughts: it would work either way. If you have the poster in the lobby you could can it and check in.
- What do you think you have to do to check-in for another appointment (after you already checked in for one)? 
  - What are your thoughts about that?
  - Va,gov: I went to myhealthevet. I had the appointment in July and have one next week for blood work then back to the va for my annual and physical. I didn’t schedule those they were scheduled for me. 
  - Anything you want added: I don’t think so it is very handy especially for bigger facilities. I have been to Erie and Pittsburg. I find it helpful where it lets you know where you need to go or wait for the appointment instead of wondering for the waiting area. 

### Confirmation page
- What are your thoughts about this page? Again it tells me where to go to wait for my appointment. 
- Is there anything missing? That might again like in a facility like Pittsburgh have it be the exact waiting room and where it is like the 7th or 8th floor. 
- Needs more clarity: yes like waiting room on 7th floor that way you have where I am supposed to go. 
- What would you do next?  I would try to find it but I would need to ask unless it tells me on here. Once I am on the right floor I would be able to find it. do I start at floor one and work my way up but they could just put on the 7th floor. I would need to go to the infomration area to get assistance form a staff member and it could be eliminated by putting that information here.
- [Make sure they close their prototype before asking this question] You have now checked in for one appointment. Pretend your next appointment isn't for another few hours. Maybe you went and grabbed lunch in between appointments. Describe to me how you would check-in for your next appointment.: it takes me back to the appointment screen. It tells me I am checked in and go to the team waiting room when it is time for it to start. : you would need to try to open it back up, how would you do that. Okay so I just tried to open it and it came right back up and I can go right back to the schedule. 
- What if you need to click the link or text check in again, thoughts:  if I couldn’t get back how I just did then that’s what I would do. I imagine these posters will be more then the main lobby. I don’t see an issue starting again. I wasn’t sure how I could get back if I close it and back to the home screen I just needed to go back to safari and it took me back there. The only issue I see is that there are people there without a smartphone. I know some vets with flip phones still. They make fun of me because I have an iphoen.t here will be people that won’t grasp this technology so you need to provide an option not to use this. I wouldn’t do away with personal yet. 
- Process thoughts: well again that is handy and tells me where I need to go. You could check in for multiple[le appointments and be ready g0o go. 

## Post-Task Interview - 5 minutes
- Now that you've seen the whole experience, what are your impressions of the experience? I think it is excellent, it is a good idea. Even the test which isnt an actual working site works extremely well. It is quick, takes you where you need and provides infomration you need. I am totally in favor put it in place. 
- If you could change one thing about the experience, what would it be? Information for where  the appointment is and the floor it is. 
- Do you have any other thoughts on what we talked about today? I think that is pretty much it. I think it would be helpful for a lot. 
- Observer question: after you check in from the app what’s the next step: I would assume at the time for the appointment someone would come and get you or call your name. That’s all I can think of. 
- Any questions for me? Not at this time. It is a good idea and hope it gets implemented. It will save people from wandering from building to building. To me what is aggravating is when you go to abc and then have to end up back at a. its not their fault it’s the systems fault but this app would take care of that.

## Thank-You and Closing - 2 minutes
We really appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us today. Your feedback is so helpful to us as we continue to work on check-in and make sure it really works for Veterans, so thank you for your time.

Lastly, do you know any other Veterans, caregivers, or service members who might be willing to participate in a future user research session? If Yes: Thank you! I'll have our team send you an email with a little blurb that you can pass along.

Great, well thank you so much again, and enjoy the rest of your day!
