# P6

## Intro - 5 minutes
- Start recording.
  - I have started recording. I'd like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record my screen and the audio as we talk today? Yes I am. 

## Warm-up Questions - 5 minutes
Now, I’m going to ask you to think about your very last medical appointment that you actually went to the VA facility for.
- Can you describe checking in for that medical appointment? Sure. I am on the tail end of my cycle so I am about to go back in. It has been about a year ago, the lab and what I remember about that. There isnt a formal check in area. Theres a ticket thing for the lab and they just call the next person. It was a good appointment, the lab is good, the process was different due to covid but the initial thing was the ticket. 
- Actual scheduled appointment: Last year I wasn’t able to get in last year was the eye clinic. They have a glassed in office space, two ladies are there and you just let them know you’re there. That’s no different than normal, that did not change. I let them know I was there and then sit and wait to be called. We just walk up, show id card. I think normally they take it but I can’t remember if they took it. 
  - What did you like about it? The in person part has never been an issues, staff is nice. Rural town, hometown so I might know their mother. I have never had an issue with customer service. 
  - What did you not like about it? Not really. As far as checking in, in generally it has been fine. We are taught different of quality of care sometimes. The lab is good, I have worked with different ones and they are all good. Eye clinic uses rotating residents so they are different each year. They are doctors and this is their OJT. The one last year was fine, no issues. 
- You checked in via [the method they mentioned in the previous question], what method do you use most often? I have used the kiosks, the only place I would use it was physical therapy area and podiatry. That was easy, you just put your card in the scanner, that also how I got my travel pay, it asks if you’re checking in and eligible for travel pay. It works easily and smoothly. When you go to those clinics you have to use it, I have not been able to go back this past year due to covid and it has been virtual. I have an upcoming in person appointment for October. 
- Fair to say you are split: Yeah. I have not been as satisfied with virtual appointments but checking in is fine. I have never had a bad check in process. I live in Atlanta part of the year. Their customer services isnt the best. I do go in and out of the Atlanta facility but it is definitely a different experience
- Process there: I don’t get services there because it has been so bad in the past so Maine is where my main va is. I go in for my annual, eyeglasses and lab through the va. For clinics I don’t use a lot of those, I have had on going podiatry issues so I go to get that updated. If I am there long enough I sign up for physical therapy. In Atlanta vs Maine it is often, thinking of going into the facility. I am familiar with other locations and theres a clinic in Atlanta for women’s clinic. The difference between the hospital and clinic in Atlanta, is that the hospital is busy and a little bit feeling of a gallant. They meant well and have an ambassador programmer there. It is a job recovery program with mental health issues. They struggled maintaining employment, they are the first that greet you or that are behind the counter. It’s like checking into a police station counter. Its not as friendly. It’s like the infomration desk. You can’t have people go in with you and I have had some friends in ICU with covid and 1 friend that died this past month but I could go see her. It is clean but it is old so you have the closed in feeling, generally you will see if you see them on a good day it is pleasant but on a bad day I get a lot of complaints. A lot of it is virtual. 
- Difference for check in process: Since I don’t normally get services at Atlanta. The one I did go to was the women’s clinic in Atlanta, it is newer, 5 years old if that. There they have a glass window and 2 ladies as receptionist. They are fine, I have been there more than once and have not had issues. Theres never been a kiosk there either. You just step up, waiting area is self-contained. Having the separate clinics for ladies that have issues are triggered by being in the masses. I know at one point it was on the way to another clinic so men had to walk through the waiting area. The women’s program manager is excellent and we brought it to her attention and they took care of it. we have a lot of women veterans in Atlanta so they rerouted it so they wouldn’t need to go through the women’s clinic. There use to be a separate entrance area but they had to shut that down due to covid. So now you come in the double doors and go through to get the temperature and let them know where you are going. I go for a lot of things because I am a volunteer, before we participate we have to get pout temperature. There are two security guards, they don’t check the possessions just temperature then given permission to go to the women’s clinic. I pretty much like how that is I would give good marks to the women’s clinic. 
- What type of mobile phone do you have (iPhone or Android)? Its an android. 

## Usability - 30 minutes
### Poster
- Can you explain to me what we're looking at here? It is a bar code to check in. I can check in by text or scan the bar code. 
- What are your thoughts about what the poster is asking you to do? Since I told you it is my birthday I am 68 today. For myself I am computer literate so I knew what it is and I know how to use it. I am buying a new phone because I cracked the screen and I am getting the 21. I change out phones at 3 years. My concern is that younger veterans shouldn’t have an issue but because I am from Maine and I am also of the older generation. Not everyone is technically confident. Texting might eb a challenge for some. I had a talk with a retired Lt Colonel. I was surprised he could do zoom, he’s not a dummy he graduated from West pint but some wont know how to use bar codes or text. There needs to be a way for the older generation to have a central check in area. I fall into the Vietnam area, I have always done computers and kept up. For me this wouldn’t be an issue. At some locations now going to my veterinarian. They now have the big sign at the door. It says text us and we will come out to get the pet. I have seen it across states so that has became normal. We take care of our pets more than ourselves. So most will eb able to text but bar codes could be hard. Not everyone spends a lot on phones as I do so 60+. I know my brother who is 62 and goes to Maine has a flip phone. We would not do the bar could, he has learned how to text but would not be able to use the code. 
- Is there anything missing? It is straightforward and if you have questions check in with staff. I think people that couldn’t do this would go check in with a staff member. I think the key is the customer service so in Maine it would be good but in Atlanta the admin staff would act like you are bothering them and interrupting the flow. Customer service would need to be good. Most people would try to do this but they need not to be rude if I ask a question. 
- Seeing this poster, what would you do next?
- At this point, I would like you to share your mobile phone screen with your laptop computer, so we can watch you complete the task mentioned on the poster.
- Now, I'm going to have you go back through check-in again. This time I'll ask you some questions at each point in the process.
- Complete task: I have to unlock my phone. I have a barcode app so I just need to find that. I am searching for it. I have a few barcode apps, either one should work so tap on that and it comes up. Focusing on the bar code which it did and then apparently it just says check in and to send sms or mms so I pick the first one. It went to this I don’t know what that is. Can you see that? I wont install that so I close that and go back, it went to check in. I can go to check in. it doesn’t say my name so you won’t know who I ma expect it would come form my phone if the setup is related to my phone number but other wise you would just get this. Not I have a return for check in for appointment so instructions for check in, I would click that. It would come up with ux pin, it is doing something here. 
- Do you need to update infomration is what comes up, when you click yes it says check in with a staff member so it doesn’t let you update it. maybe because its not live. I could go beck my other barcode reader. I have the appointments there; I am having a very busy day. I am glad the last is mental health because I would need it by the end of the day. I am late for purple clinic, for cardiology I would check in now. I am checked in and they will come get me at the red waiting room. I can check in for the one that’s 20   minutes away. Okay theres nothing else coming up. 

### Text Message
- What changes would you make to this text messaging portion of check-in? It says check in for the va appointment, this wouldn’t be an issues for me because I know where I got the text from. Theres a lot of awareness that you shouldn’t click on anything on your phone. The transition was not good because it went to the other place I needed to install. I may or may not have tried to download the app. If the va wants to sue apps then I prefer a one stop shop app. 

### Check in at VA
- Can you explain to me what we're looking at? 
- What are your thoughts about what this page is asking you? Check in at the va, again because I am here I feel safe with it and familiar with check in. my last name and last 4 is commonly asked. Probably if I had a video appointment because I know I will be doing I would be fine with it and you are asking for my full SSN. As veterans we are used to being asked last 4. 
- Would you prefer to enter in the last 4 digits of your SSN or your date of birth here? Currently we are used to the last 4 so why change it. I would stick with 3he last 4. 
- Is there anything missing? No because it would be to much work to customize it for each appointment. Because I saw the list of appointments, if it is okay to check in for all appointments maybe have that. May have it say welcome to your appointments, by filling this out you will be able to check in at all appointments so they know what’s coming next.
- Prefer all at once: for me, it would be easy enough because I don’t have chronic or acute things mine are routine. For people that have things that take longer, do you know how long it takes to walk between clinics. It can take a while. Wherever you are going it could be on the opposite side of the building., specialty is in the main building but the women’s clinic you have to go between buildings, 3 buildings over so that takes a while. The main building it is on different floors, its 8 stories. The clinic is 2 stories, some specialty clinics. I haven’t used them; the women’s clinic is self-contained. For people with multiple might want to do it for each appointments. 

### Contact/insurance
- What are your thoughts about what this page is asking you? It’s a routine question that is asked so I would be accepting. 
- Staff members check in: I ask why you asked me the question then. 
- Update here: yes for myself I would. Again the age factor and mobility on my phone I use my phone like a laptop, I am used to it but with older vets they might not be. What you say here is do it here or check in with a staff member to help you. This is easier than getting into the portal. This is next of kin or insurance, if I can do it here it is easier especially virtually. If I am home I need to go on ebenefits. If I got married or widowed. At home it is harder than doing it this way. In person is much easier to do. 

### Your appointments
- Can you explain to me what we're looking at?
- What are your thoughts about what this page is showing you? This is good, it has all my appointments and times. The only thing would be to add the room number. This is a lot of appointments, hopefully I have been there and know where it is but I might not. dermatology in omd4, I don’t know what that is. The doctors name makes sense and it also tells me I am late which would make be anxious but that’s fine because a few minutes doesn’t make a difference. Cardiology, I don’t know which building it is or which floor so maybe location would be a line. 
- More than clinic name: especially if its this many. I normally make a note to myself, in the smaller locations everything is together anyways so its not a big deal. It can get confusing because in Maine theres 2 elevators, 1 doesn’t go to all of the floors. It would be nicer to know exactly the floor its on. 
  - What are your thoughts about seeing all of your appointments for the day on one screen?
- What do you think about the possibility that there are multiple appointments eligible for check-in right now, but only being able to select one to complete check-in.
  - What are your thoughts about seeing these other types of appointments on this page? It had all of my items. My challenge might be coming back to this pag3e, how would I come back here. Do I need to check  in again. This is alto in one day. 
  - Seeing everything is valuable: yes it is a snapshot of what my day is. 
    - an appointment you already checked in for.
    - Not eligible for online check in: yes because it still tells me what to do. 
    - an appointment that is past the time where you are able to check-in for from your phone.
    - an appointment that you are too early to check-in for from your phone: I think I might be anxious I am late but you can’t check me in but it says asks a staff member for help. Oh it says check in starting at 230. I can check in early for that one. I would need to come back to it. I didn’t pick up on that, I would need to come back to check in. again you are asking someone to do that. Familiarity with the process, once you know this is to be excepted people would adapt to it. you don’t want to get there to early so some people will should up early and you’ll be done early. It really depends. I don’t think it would cause a huge issues. 
    - an appointment that isn't eligible for online check-in.
- Have you ever had a virtual (video or phone) appointment?
  - Would you expect or not expect virtual appointments to be a part of this check-in experience? My experience with virtual appointments hasn’t been good. Normally technical issues and rescheduling at the last minute. My primary care and then I got a call that all technology lines were down and had to be rescheduled. I would like a different list for virtual and I wouldn’t mix it in with in person. For virtual it is easier for a laptop rather than a phone. It’s getting better now but it didn’t work well to do virtual appointments on the cellphone. 
- Is there anything on this page that isn't useful to you? You would be ok if it was removed.
  - Why?
- Have you ever scheduled an appointment on VA.gov? I have contacted my primary through messenger and when I scheduled my appointment. you just call in the main hospital line and that’s the appointment desk. I got to the lady and told her what I wanted; I know you have to schedule in advance. I was coming up and needed the routine appointment but want it between this date and this one. She tried to get me setup and her computer went down. She was very nice and tried again and apologized because it wasn’t working. She transferred me to the women’s clinic to set it up. I was very happy and felt like a valued person. If I was just told computer is down and call back another time it wouldn’t have been a good experience. 
  - If so, what you do think about this appointment list versus your experience with VA online scheduling? No I haven’t thought to look at it. I don’t do a lot of appointments any ways. I know once a year I will go in and get annual stuff. I don’t do things other than that. Only other time I just talk to the clinic directly. I can call primary care or eye clinic I can call directly without needing to go through the electronic way and it may or may not work,. When I get into ebenefits it wills ay its down for maintenance so I don’t have full confidence in electronics. I would rather talk to a person. 
- What do you think you have to do to check-in for another appointment (after you already checked in for one)?
  - What are your thoughts about that? The only thing would be what if theres an urgent situation. I am coming in and I am having chest pain. Is there an option where theres an urgent alarm system like a distress button. I would need to think more about it, some people would click it every time but maybe these are your appointments, all routine appointments. Maybe a disclaimer where it says these are not emergency appointments but if need emergency care press here. 
  - Staff member check in: I didn’t see the appointment option in line. For check in that’s fine. They don’t want you to come in, theres a sign for having things brought out to you. The barcode for some may be harder but texting I think most have adapted to. 

### Confirmation page
- What are your thoughts about this page?
- Is there anything missing?
- What would you do next? I would make sure I am in the waiting room. 
  - If you don't know where to go, then what would you prefer to do next call or talk to a staff member? Well they are right there I would say I have a question. Why would I do something else. They are right there. 
    - What if the phone number was for the main VA call center?
- [Make sure they close their prototype before asking this question] You have now checked in for one appointment. Pretend your next appointment isn't for another few hours. Maybe you went and grabbed lunch in between appointments. Describe to me how you would check-in for your next appointment: Since I know how this works and I will probably do stuff on my phone. I assume there will be a poster in each clinic. I won’t remember the number; I think I would just go to the next clinic and it would just pop back up. I would start from the poster again. Its like when kiosks came in, it was weird at first. This is the same as the kiosk except with texting. 
  - What are your thoughts about entering your last name and last 4 digits of your SSN again to check in for your next appointment? it’s the  last for and that’s what I do anyway so that is standard. The only thing with the kiosk it would be nice to add in the travel pay. There is an entire new process and I don’t know how it is now. If you could add in the travel pay that would be great. 

## Post-Task Interview - 5 minutes
- Now that you've seen the whole experience, what are your impressions of the experience? We are used to checking in process for food, pet appointments and now asking for it at the va. I think most people adapted already. You will still have some that aren’t comfortable with texting. Even my older family members have learned how to text so you will be okay with it. texting vs the barcode. 
- If you could change one thing about the experience, what would it be? Oh I want the travel pay. Its money right. If texting doesn’t work the lady behind the window may not be nice but I’m still gonna go let her know I’m here. The think I am think of is the reminder system. That might be something to look at, how is this linked to the reminder system. You normally get something in the mail or text.is that linked. 
- How: the appointment system could be link so like my dental appointment is on Monday and they sent me something to confirm I am coming on Monday. It had click here to confirm. then when you are eligible to check in they send advance reminders and confirm, then the instructions of the morning are you are scheduled here at this time and when here please let us know you are here. Again I get there and I send a text saying I am here and they text back stating stand by while we clean your room. Theres a reminder that says be sure you wear the mask and will text you when it is time to come in. I am doing the check in while in the car but still check in with the clerk but done everything else in the care. 
- Do you have any other thoughts on what we talked about today? I think this will work well but the people that cant use it may be an issue and customer service. 
- Any questions for me?

## Thank-You and Closing - 2 minutes
We really appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us today. Your feedback is so helpful to us as we continue to work on check-in and make sure it really works for Veterans, so thank you for your time.

Lastly, do you know any other Veterans, caregivers, or service members who might be willing to participate in a future user research session? If Yes: Thank you! I'll have our team send you an email with a little blurb that you can pass along.

Great, well thank you so much again, and enjoy the rest of your day!
