# P7

## Warm-up Questions - 5 minutes
Now, I’m going to ask you to think about your very last medical appointment that you actually went to the VA facility for.
- Can you describe checking in for that medical appointment? checking in I went to West Roxbury. I haven’t gotten a text each time to check in, for that reason I don’t use it. if I get the text I just go inside to check in. I have been there maybe 6 times. Sometimes I hit check in and nothing else happens. 
- What did you do: yes I just went in and checked in and went to the appointment
- What is that: it is the covid questions, theres a list. I just say check no on it all and they still read it then give me a tag that I have checked in. theres no name just visitor and the date. 
- Where next: I go right to the services side, either cardiology, spinal cord, rehab, eyeglasses, hearing aids. I go to JP for hearing aids. 
- Anything to check in there: the same covid questions and you have to wear a mask. I’m sure you are familiar with the list. I do the same, no no no. it is redundant now it think but I know they have to doit. I know guys that say no even if they were exposed. 
  - Overall, how would you describe that experience? Was it a good or bad experience? Easy or hard?
    - What did you like about it?
    - What did you not like about it? no I think it’s a good idea it limits exposure. A lot of it is dependent on the honesty of the patient. I would say just take a quick temperature check. That would be the only other thing you could do. I know they are doing what they can to limit exposure. 
- You checked in via [the method they mentioned in the previous question], what method do you use most often? Checking in with staff member. They’re humans some are nice and some are idiots. 
- Text check in: never worked. 
- Which check in method most: no before covid it was checking in on the kiosk and that’s how I would check in with my id. For a while they weren’t working so we would have to check in with the staff. 
- Like about it: it was good. It was great. It was simple, easy, redundancy but you have to do that. I wrote a letter to the VA director; the travel thing is absurd. I have been to three visit and get denied, then you have to appeal and write a letter. Because it is va access theres a white shirt up top that says we can save money if we make it hard. There’s a lot of people that aren’t computer savvy. It is not an easy system. I don’t know why they denied it the doctor even checked it off as I was there. So I don’t know where the system is cracking down but its not very user friendly. 
  - Clarify options available only if necessary. This could be using the kiosk, talking directly with VA staff, using text messaging , or how your access virtual appointments.
- What type of mobile phone do you have (iPhone or Android)? iPhone

## Usability - 30 minutes
### Poster
- Can you explain to me what we're looking at here? They are asking me to check in with the phone. It is where the phone reads the icon. 
- What are your thoughts about what the poster is asking you to do? My experience is that I have had issues scanning I am not sure how to do it with my phone. I am not sure how to set it up on my phone. Maybe you could make sure, I know a lot of guys that wouldn’t know how to scan it. if you give instructions on how to do it I think a lot of guys would use it.
- Is there anything missing? If you read it, need to update, can you do that with this code. I would check with a staff member because I don’t know what they are asking. My first option would be to call to check in. Maybe if you list it with a box, it isnt bad it is just a little confusing. 
- Check in: at this point in time I would call the number. I wish I knew how to scan because I would. I can do text message but for me, I have big fingers so you never really know what will be said. Texting wouldn’t be the best for me if I could scan I would. Oh that was easy, why hasn’t anyone told me that before. I thought when I scan it would open, its asking me to send message. I would send check in and send. Now it gives me a site to go to. Already it has became a pain, if I say checking in why wouldn’t they check me in that way. Now I have to put in my last name which I would like that. It is asking me what my appointments are and it is a screen. Ill click cardiology. Its tells me to go to the waiting room when the appointment is ready to start. They don’t want you in more than 10 minutes, they don’t want many people in the waiting room. I would go in at 10 of. 
- At this point, I would like you to share your mobile phone screen with your laptop computer, so we can watch you complete the task mentioned on the poster.
- Now, I'm going to have you go back through check-in again. This time I'll ask you some questions at each point in the process.

### Text Message
- What changes would you make to this text messaging portion of check-in? I mean, I want to try something first. I think there must be an easier way especially with the icon to just check in with the phone. Its not cumbersome but it is just another step. If it would be one check in point, when you go in for the appointment if I do the icon once why doesn’t it follow through. If I gave my last name and last 4 it should go in right away. When you hit the site the first thing it should be is appointments. Why would do you need to provide the last name and last 4 twice. 
- Multiple appointments, once and done: yes

### Check in at VA
- Would you prefer to enter in the last 4 digits of your SSN or your date of birth here?  Yes absoutely but why ask twice. Is it because it is a different appointment clinic. I would only like to have to enter it once. I would like the last 4, its safer and more secure. I mean I don’t know the statistics but whichever is more secure
- Feels like this is secure: yes
- Asked once: yes. 
- Is there anything missing? I think the only other thing I would do; I think security is the upmost thing here. Maybe on the first screen last 4 and DOB only once. Then someday if you can do it with a thumb print that would be even better. 

### Contact/insurance
- Can you explain to me what we're looking at? I don’t have a problem with this, it seems simple.
- Click yes, thoughts: I would just assume that I am checking into the appointment, I am not trying to find other resources or updates. I think it muddies the water. 
- What if you moved: I know how to do it online so I would do that or if I went to an appointment I would update it then.
- What if you can do it here: Great idea. That would be a great idea. 
  - What are your thoughts about what this page is asking you? I would answer no but I think its another step. I don’t know how convenient that is so I would click no and then the appointments list comes up

### Your appointments
- What are your thoughts about what this page is showing you?  It pretty simple when I am looking at it. I can check in for cardiology. I think in each page you have to put the date there. My first look at it I would think jeeze these are all for today. I am busy today. 
- All appointments for one day, thoughts: Just reading it I would go to menu because I know I don’t have them all in one day so I would try to find the dates. I don’t know about other veterans but in Boston you could go to three different hospitals all in one day. 
- Don’t that in the past: Yes. So I think putting a location would help especially if going form one place to another. I know each local system runs differently and has different setups. If I received that I would have just gone home. There are some pretty important things, you are asking someone to leave their house at 8 and spend all day until 4 at the va. You would be exhausted. That is also contingent on not waiting 1 minute past your scheduled time. 
- What do you think about the possibility that there are multiple appointments eligible for check-in right now, but only being able to select one to complete check-in.
  - What are your thoughts about seeing these other types of appointments on this page? 
    - an appointment you already checked in for: I would just go okay stupid. 
    - an appointment that is past the time where you are able to check-in for from your phone: that’s fine, I would check in when I get there. Yes because if I got the other messages and appointments I would assume that they cancelled my first appointments. if it is daily then it should show it even if they don’t need to check in. 
    - changes to it: No if I were 10 minutes late I would just go right there. 
    - an appointment that you are too early to check-in for from your phone: With those two I have 1 at 1pm and then 130. It would never happen. You’d be late for the second and because they get backed up you have to be realistic. 
    - I would think if a vet had an appointment and they are there they would only need to check in once and be good from there. Especially if the appointment is in the morning then in the afternoon then you’d need to check in but if you are going from one appointment to the other with an hour of less in between I wouldn’t say check in again. If it is longer than an hour then have to check in again. 
    - an appointment that isn't eligible for online check-in:  that is pretty simp-le, you just go. You don’t need to do anything it is telling you to go and check in with the staff.
    - Still want it to show up: yes. With va people they don’t like to say here it isnt eligible. I know its fine but others wouldn’t like it. I would change it to say no need to check in instead of ineligible. A Lot of guys are eligible for different stuff.  
- Is there anything you would like to be able to do or see on this page that currently isn't available? I know this wont happen but if you check in one at a time then if eligible for travel pay if you can reflect it now instead of having to do it again. It would make it easier. Access is cumbersome and stupid. It is big to a lot of guys, for some the travel pay is the only thing they get. I work with the DAV to get the guys set up with. I know what they say and what they are looking at. There are a lot of different needs and abilities. 
- Have you ever had a virtual (video or phone) appointment? yes, I have had some that are great. I have spinal cord injury. It was okay when I didn’t have serious issues but once I had an issue I needed to see the doctor it isnt useful. The doctor wasn’t telling me what was happening then finally they said I needed to come in. you waste time and it’s a tough one. I like the virtual ones and I love them, mental health I see a guy and it works great because we are talking. I have done a few with cardiology. I did rehab with a girl three times a week for two hours virtually and she was new at it but had been my physical therapist for years. She learned how to do it and what to do. I would put my computer where she could see it and correct me when needed. She learned a lot from it and ended up going into a program to establish virtual appointments. I was surprised how much she did
  - Would you expect or not expect virtual appointments to be a part of this check-in experience? Yes Aboustely. If it is in the middle of an in person appointment. all appointments should me here just mark it virtual. 
  - Travel pay: how it was originally on the kiosk, it was easy. I have not met a person that likes the new system. I have met a lot of guys that like the kiosks, no issues easier to resolve. Access you submit and they give a list of all appointments then you have to apply and put down mileage. I have been denied twice and I don’t know why. They told me I needed to file a disagreement. Then they will let me know. I filed one and it came back two weeks later that the doctor did not check the box. Then the doctor said it was two months ago, she said he would do it once but not again. 
  - Anything else: the va logo, you know it’s the va because you had to sign in. can you search for all appointments. I do it on my HealtheVet and print it out and put on my calendar. 
- Is there anything on this page that isn't useful to you? You would be ok if it was removed.
  - Why?
- Have you ever scheduled an appointment on VA.gov?
  - If so, what you do think about this appointment list versus your experience with VA online scheduling? To me at this point, they are changing it because ebenefits it going to myhealthevet. I am computer savvy but I know a lot of guys that aren’t. So I don’t know, I’m an old timer to so the phone isnt my life. I shut it off sometimes. I have a son and he lives with his phone. The more I have on my phone the better. I do most of it on the phone but I would put what works for most people. I would have it; it would be an issue if you can only do it from the phone and not the computer.
  - Want to see it all from phone: yes. 

### Confirmation page
- What are your thoughts about this page? I like to get everything checked in at once, this would be good if it did that. If I check in for the appointment at 9 and 4 it would be nice to check in and then direct me to the waiting room 15 minutes prior. 
- Is there anything missing?
- What would you do next? I would look at this and go to the other appointment. if I did it all at once then I wouldn’t but if not I would need to go back and check in to the rest. I would keep this list with me so I know where to go. I wouldn’t just go off I would have it somewhere to check where I go to next. I think older guys would need to see this to know where they are going. 
- Where would you check in: I would do it in my car before I even walk in. 
  - If you don't know where to go, then what would you prefer to do next call or talk to a staff member? I would walk up to the desk. I am not staying on the phone to long it is very irritating. If I were to be on it for 20 minutes I would find another way to check in. I think quick and easy is always good. It is simple. 
- [Make sure they close their prototype before asking this question] You have now checked in for one appointment. Pretend your next appointment isn't for another few hours. Maybe you went and grabbed lunch in between appointments. Describe to me how you would check-in for your next appointment:  I would look at the webpage again. It would be more convenient if you can set a reminder. With all of these In a row you’d be okay but if one was at 9 am and one at 4pm a reminder would be good. 
- Ideal the va send reminders an hour prior: yes. 

## Post-Task Interview - 5 minutes
- Now that you've seen the whole experience, what are your impressions of the experience? I think if it works, if people don’t acknowledge that you checked in guys wont use it and check in at the desk anyways. 
- Wouldn’t want a front desk conversation after: sometimes you might have to if they had follow up questions. I don’t want humans to go away. 
- If you need to repeat and staff made you to check in again you wouldn’t use it: some people wouldn’t use it. sometimes the staff makes you update the information. I just tell them that it is already done or if they are being instructed to ask. I don’t know. The more redundancy guys over 50-60 would ask why they need to tell them 5 times. You need to minimize it; younger guys they live on the phone they have another understanding of phones. 
- If you could change one thing about the experience, what would it be? If checking in by phone, something needs to come back and tell me I am checked in. that would take the guess work out of what I am doing. The confirmation you can combine with the check in. 
- Do you have any other thoughts on what we talked about today? No, I think they did a good job. I know that some veterans don’t make it easy. They do a good job, the simpler. Keep it simple stupid. 
- Any questions for me? No. 

## Thank-You and Closing - 2 minutes
We really appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us today. Your feedback is so helpful to us as we continue to work on check-in and make sure it really works for Veterans, so thank you for your time.

Lastly, do you know any other Veterans, caregivers, or service members who might be willing to participate in a future user research session? If Yes: Thank you! I'll have our team send you an email with a little blurb that you can pass along.

Great, well thank you so much again, and enjoy the rest of your day!
