# P8

## Intro - 5 minutes
- Start recording.
  - I have started recording. I'd like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record my screen and the audio as we talk today? That’s Fine. 

## Warm-up Questions - 5 minutes
Now, I’m going to ask you to think about your very last medical appointment that you actually went to the VA facility for.
- Can you describe checking in for that medical appointment? I went to the wrong desk, the wrong check in counter and they let me know where the right one is. Checking in itself was hard, it was what’s your name and last four along with the birthday. 
- Staff member: yes
  - Overall, how would you describe that experience? Was it a good or bad experience? Easy or hard?
    - What did you like about it? I haven’t thought of it in context its just how it is done. I have done the kiosk in the past, entering the information. I find personal interaction more convenient then navigating the system myself. 
    - What did you not like about it? the disadvantages of staff, not much any more due to covid but traditionally having 3-4 people ahead and your appointment is now. It is concerning and you have to wait 10 minutes in line and my appointments now. 
- You checked in via [the method they mentioned in the previous question], what method do you use most often? It depended on where I was in at the va. If I had multiple appointments in one day I would check in all at once if there was a kiosk other than that I would go to the front desk. They aren’t advertised in the clinic you just need to know where they are. 
- What type of mobile phone do you have (iPhone or Android)?Android

## Usability - 30 minutes
### Poster
- Can you explain to me what we're looking at here?  It looks like one of those things you scan and it pops up on the phone. I haven’t used the box things before but I would imagine if I saw it and wanted I could text the number to let them know I was there. 
- What are your thoughts about what the poster is asking you to do? Um, I think it is perhaps a little busy. I would just drop the second paragraphs and have it do you, you know you can check in for your appointment by the phone. To check in using your phone here’s how. The additional to update other stuff is a bit much, it just isnt needed. 
- Is there anything missing? I guess I could say it looks plain but that is I guess how the va is. Its plain. Its not a bad thing, it conveys its point. 
- Seeing this poster, what would you do next? If I knew how to use the scan thing I would scan it. I imagine I would be near a lot of older veterans so they wouldn’t know what it is or how to interact with it. I would go to the phone and text check in to that number. Perhaps instead of stating to start I would have to check in text. 
- Checking in process: I would use my cellphone, to walk in and see the poster and theres a line of people I would read it and check in with my phone. I would pull my phone up try to figure out how to get it in texting mode. Starting the chat, type in the number. It is last asking for my last name and last 4. Checked in at 1 then they’ll come and get you. 

### Text Message
- What changes would you make to this text messaging portion of check-in?  I am trying to think. Theres a link, you could make it plural because there are multiple appointments in this scenario. I didn’t have any trouble with it but others may but I cant guess for others. I might have it a va.gov link. 

### Check in at VA
- Can you explain to me what we're looking at? I mean it looks like a va.gov where everything is moving towards. It is familiar looking, nothing weird just connected page. That’s find, last name is a requirement and that makes sense. Yeah last name, last 4. I think it should ask for the DOB as well because there are so many smiths and jones that have the same last name and last 4. So that should be included. 
- Is there anything missing? The need help ask a staff member under the continue button. I think it is out of place because you are on in online world. I  have dealt with people at the va and they are less inclined with technology than I am. They can check you in but they may not be used to this avenue of checking in. If there were perhaps a need help call this number because they would be more experienced and can assist whereas staff members may not be able assist. 
- What number: that adds to the issue, you can check in by calling the va itself. I have made appointments but the issue is you don’t know where they are calling so you cant just use that specific number. It could just say ask the front desk. 

### Contact/insurance
- Can you explain to me what we're looking at? It asks that at the kiosk as well. That seems pretty standard. 
- What if you need to update: it says check in with a staff member. 
- What are your thoughts about what this page is asking you? It is the concept of using staff member instead of front desk. Besides that it makes sense. 
- Is there anything missing? I mean I personally wouldn’t leave it that wide for any information. I would have it do you need to update, then examples. If you see anything they think they need to update the car insurance. It’s a rabbit hole but that’s just being knit picky. 

### Your appointments
- Can you explain to me what we're looking at? I am seeing the list of appointments for the day. The clinic name. 10 minutes ago you cant check in ask a staff member for help. 10am appointment was checked in at 9:55. Lets you know you can check in 30 minutes early instead of having them check in a week ahead. Then cant check in online for 4 pm. That’s weird but I think that’s a thing. It says check-in for 4pm instead of before when there wasn’t a dash. One or the other. It wouldn’t be va within there being inconsistency. I would rather have that for convenience instead of clicking next or what have you.  
- What if only checking in for one: I am not okay with that, I feel if I have the option to do it but then goes away after I’ve done something it seems like an error. I do things out of order so I would check in for 330 then my 1 pm. I think that is an error is the program. 
- Check in: okay checked in, go to another appointment. okay 130 it let me do that
- Thoughts: Now the back button is gone, there should be a back button. I should still be able to get back to the list because I may have a bad memory and not remember when my next appointment is. Its more than a resource to check in it is a resource to see my calendar for the day. It was weird I couldn’t check in to 130 then 1pm. 
- What are your thoughts about what this page is showing you?
  - What are your thoughts about seeing all of your appointments for the day on one screen?
- What do you think about the possibility that there are multiple appointments eligible for check-in right now, but only being able to select one to complete check-in.
  - What are your thoughts about seeing these other types of appointments on this page? 
    - an appointment you already checked in for: It is nice to get confirmation feedback to make sure I was checked in and it ahs the day and time so if the front desk tells me I wasn’t checked in I can say yes I did its right here.
    - an appointment that is past the time where you are able to check-in for from your phone: Personally I would still like to be able to do it but I understand that you have to do it in person. The message makes sense. I would have you cannot check in online at this time because…
    - an appointment that you are too early to check-in for from your phone: That’s fine. I would hazard the time zone deals. You could use a cookie to find the location but that aside I know what they are looking for and I can check in at 230. No issues there. 
    - an appointment that isn't eligible for online check-in: No that makes sense. 
- Is there anything you would like to be able to do or see on this page that currently isn't available? Um, wish list it would be nice to see other appointments for tomorrow or further in the week. If theres an option to open the calendar form here would be nice rather than having to navigate to my HealtheVet website opposed from doing it from here. 
- Have you ever had a virtual (video or phone) appointment? Yes I have had 1 that was very awkward. It was a video online appointment and numerous phone conversations. 
  - Would you expect or not expect virtual appointments to be a part of this check-in experience? No because they reach out to you for the phone appointments. It would be a situation for the box saying this isnt eligible for online check in because it is a phone appointment. 
  - Still what it listed: yeah it would be nice for it to be listed so they know they have the appointment but its by phone. 
- Is there anything on this page that isn't useful to you? No it all has a purpose. 
- Have you ever scheduled an appointment on VA.gov? I have tried and they don’t make appointments on there you have to call in.  I have looked at the upcoming appointments.
  - If so, what you do think about this appointment list versus your experience with VA online scheduling?  I like this lay out instead of the myhealthevet layout. Boxes are better than a table for organizing the data, they both achieve what they need. It uses military time as I prefer whereas other veterans may as well. The data is both represented. 
  - Change or add: No, they both make sense I wouldn’t add anything to it because you have the date/time, who its with and where it is at. I suppose a veteran could have appointments at different VA’s for specialty care. There may be a need to put which va hospital the appointment is at. That would be needed but the vast majority of veterans would not need that. You could put it at the top to note the facility. 

### Confirmation page
- What are your thoughts about this page? (reading page) Yeah, that makes sense. 
- Is there anything missing?
- What would you do next? I mean I would find a place to sit in the waiting room. 
- Expect next: from my experience it is someone from the front desk saying last name and come with me. 
- Taking you back: yes. 
- Missing or want added: Um, I guess I would modify the waiting room data. I think it should just be perhaps the clinic waiting room. All of that extra information isnt revelation because you are being told to wait in that clinics name, you don’t need to know the nurse name infomration because you are already there. 
  - If you don't know where to go, then what would you prefer to do next call or talk to a staff member?
    - What if the phone number was for the main VA call center?
- [Make sure they close their prototype before asking this question] You have now checked in for one appointment. Pretend your next appointment isn't for another few hours. Maybe you went and grabbed lunch in between appointments. Describe to me how you would check-in for your next appointment: If my phone had issues I would need to find the poster to find the number to contact. Assuming I had the number I would text it go to the link and enter my information and go from there. 
- Start from text: correct. 

## Post-Task Interview - 5 minutes
- Now that you've seen the whole experience, what are your impressions of the experience? I think it is a nice additional avenue to check in especially for veterans that do have anxiety for interpersonal interactions. It is nice with the kiosks disappearing from the hospitals. 
- If you could change one thing about the experience, what would it be? That extra paragraph on the initial poster because if that’s the initial contact it doesn’t need additional distracting stuff. Just theres a new way to check in. I don’t need the notice for updating infomration. The notice after logging in is good enough. Especially if it tells me that I can’t do it.
- Fine after in: yes. If you need to update, I need you to go to the front desk, that’s okay. That’s how I see it. 
- Do you have any other thoughts on what we talked about today? I guess just try to reachback so that one rare veteran with appointments on the same day at different locations, have it appear but make it so it doesn’t look weird. Most people don’t have more than 1 facility. Maybe just tack on within the appointment, time/date/ doctor/ and VMAC. It could get messy real quick if there’s different tabs. 
- Any questions for me? no

## Thank-You and Closing - 2 minutes
We really appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us today. Your feedback is so helpful to us as we continue to work on check-in and make sure it really works for Veterans, so thank you for your time.

Lastly, do you know any other Veterans, caregivers, or service members who might be willing to participate in a future user research session? If Yes: Thank you! I'll have our team send you an email with a little blurb that you can pass along.

Great, well thank you so much again, and enjoy the rest of your day!
