platform/working-with-vsp/orientation/request-access-to-tools.md, before:

# Request access to tools

## Configure your Github and Slack accounts

To work on the Veteran-facing Services Platform, each team member needs to use the VA Github organization and to DSVA Slack channels.

## Slack
1. If you haven't already, check your email for an invitation to join Digital Service at VA on Slack, and join!

1. Add information to your Slack profile:
    * Profile image
    * Full name
    * What I do (i.e. your practice area: Front-end Engineer, Designer, etc)
    * Time zone
    * Pronouns
    * GitHub (i.e. the account handle / username you created when you set up your GitHub account)

## GitHub

1. If you haven't already, check your email for an invitation to the Department of Veterans Affairs GitHub Organization, and join!
 
1. Make sure you have "Read" access (not just "Write" access) to the [va.gov-team GitHub repository](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team). If you don't have the appropriate access, or if you're unsure, let VSP know in the #vfs-platform-support Slack channel.

1. Add information to your Github profile:
    * Organization: ```Your company name```
    * Working on: ```The project your team is working on```, e.g., "526 ancillary forms"

1. Developers, complete the [additional VSP orientation steps](#additional-orientation-steps-for-developers) below to access the code repositories and tools you'll need for development and deployment.

## Additional orientation steps for developers

The internal tools available include Grafana, Sentry, Prometheus and Jenkins. These tools are hosted internally and
available for developers via proxy access. We use `ssh` and the Chrome plugin SwitchyOmega to route web requests from
your browser to the SOCKS5 proxy for these private domains. For this we require the use of an `ssh` key pair to secure access.

In addition to internal tools our infrastructure is hosted in and makes use of services in AWS GovCloud. This account is shared amongst many different teams; changes made to resources in this account will affect many services. You will need access to AWS for troubleshooting, log file review and to apply changes to the running instances and services. 

We will be walking how to request access through the steps below. In order to be granted SOCKS access a SAC adjudication will need to be completed and returned as "favorable". Please remember to submitted all VA onboarding paperwork to your company/COR before a SAC adjudication can be conducted. **Opening the issue prematurely will slow down our ability to respond to you in a
timely manner**. In order to be granted AWS access your PIV background (eQUIP adjudication) check needs to be underway. **If you do not need access to AWS please do not mark "Yes" in the Grant AWS Console Access section**.

 

#### 1. Create [new SSH keys](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/blob/master/platform/engineering/internal-tools.md#create-ssh-public-key).

#### 2. Request that your SSH keys be authorized so that you can use the developer tools such as Jenkins, Grafana and Sentry.
* File an issue in [va.gov-team repo](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team).
* Use the issue template `Environment Access Request Template`
  * Follow the template instructions
    * Provide the name of your Contracting Officer's Representative (COR)
    * Provide your name, role and company
    * Paste the public portion of your ssh key. The template has an example.
    * Grant AWS Console Access? Yes or No.
  * Tag group `@department-of-veterans-affairs/vsp-operations` to review
  * Monitor the issue for updates and respond to any questions from the operations group.
  * Occasionally operations will need to reach out via Slack for additional information.

#### 3. When your key has been added, the Github issue will be closed, which will send a notification to you. This is your signal that you can continue to the next step.

#### 4. Configure [the SOCKS proxy](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/blob/master/platform/engineering/internal-tools.md#configure-the-socks-proxy).

#### 5. Understand [how to use the SOCKS proxy from inside the VA network and from the internet](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/blob/master/platform/engineering/internal-tools.md#accessing-socks-proxy-from-va-network).

#### 6. [Test and use the SOCKS proxy](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/blob/master/platform/engineering/internal-tools.md#accessing-socks-proxy-from-the-internet).

#### 7. Jenkins, Grafana, and Sentry

Jenkins, Grafana, and Sentry have been linked to GitHub for user authentication.
* The services will not be accessible until the SOCKS proxy is configured and working properly.
* When logging into these services for the first time click the button `Login with GitHub` or similar
  * You will be prompted to link your GitHub account and presented with a permissions dialog
  * Allow the service to access your account and view your Organization membership

#### 8. For AWS Console access
##### 8A. When your account has been setup, you will receive a Slack private message with your temporary password and login URL.
##### 8B. You are required to login and change the temporary password immediately.
* AWS will prompt you to change your password during first login
* Additionally you are required to setup a virtual MFA device in order to access services in the AWS cloud and programmatically via the CLI.
  * Follow the walk through for MFA setup [here](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/blob/master/platform/engineering/backend/aws-account-setup.md)


## Tools overview

### Jenkins

With the Socks proxy set up and running, go to http://jenkins.vfs.va.gov. You can see the builds without logging in, but will need to authenticate (with GitHub OAuth) to re-run failed builds.

### Sentry

With the Socks proxy set up and running, go to http://sentry.vfs.va.gov.

We do not really use Sentry teams except to separate production, staging, and dev errors. To view the most recent production errors, which is the most common thing to do while on call, go to http://sentry.vfs.va.gov/vets-gov/platform-api-production/

### Grafana
With the Socks proxy set up and running, go to http://grafana.vfs.va.gov/login. You can sign in using your GitHub account by clicking the "GitHub" button on the login page.

There are many dashboards and you should click around to get familiar with the variety of metrics being collected and visualized (make sure Data Source is set to Production). A few highlights are:

- [Site](http://grafana.vfs.va.gov/dashboard/db/site) to see overall metrics about the health of the site
- [External Service Status](http://grafana.vfs.va.gov/dashboard/db/external-service-status) to see the availability of the services vets.gov depends on.
- [RDS](http://grafana.vfs.va.gov/dashboard/db/rds) to see the database statistics.
- [Rev Proxy](http://grafana.vfs.va.gov/dashboard/db/revproxy) to see metrics on the reverse proxies.

Commit message:

Update request-access-to-tools.md (#6082)
* Update request-access-to-tools.md

* Update request-access-to-tools.md

* Update request-access-to-tools.md

* Update request-access-to-tools.md

* Add comma

Co-authored-by: Jeremy Britt <56260532+jbritt1@users.noreply.github.com>

platform/working-with-vsp/orientation/request-access-to-tools.md, after:

# Request access to tools

## Configure your Github and Slack accounts

To work on the Veteran-facing Services Platform, each team member needs to use the VA Github organization and to DSVA Slack channels.

## Slack
1. If you haven't already, check your email for an invitation to join Digital Service at VA on Slack, and join!

1. Add information to your Slack profile:
    * Profile image
    * Full name
    * What I do (i.e. your practice area: Front-end Engineer, Designer, etc)
    * Time zone
    * Pronouns
    * GitHub (i.e. the account handle / username you created when you set up your GitHub account)

## GitHub

1. If you haven't already, check your email for an invitation to the Department of Veterans Affairs GitHub Organization, and join!
 
1. Make sure you have "Read" access (not just "Write" access) to the [va.gov-team GitHub repository](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team). If you don't have the appropriate access, or if you're unsure, let VSP know in the #vfs-platform-support Slack channel.

1. Add information to your Github profile:
    * Organization: ```Your company name```
    * Working on: ```The project your team is working on```, e.g., "526 ancillary forms"

1. Developers, complete the [additional VSP orientation steps](#additional-orientation-steps-for-developers) below to access the code repositories and tools you'll need for development and deployment.

## Additional orientation steps for developers

The internal tools available include Grafana, Sentry, Prometheus, and Jenkins. These tools are hosted internally and
available for developers via proxy access. We use `ssh` and the Chrome plugin SwitchyOmega to route web requests from
your browser to the SOCKS5 proxy for these private domains. For this we require the use of an `ssh` key pair to secure access.

In addition to internal tools our infrastructure is hosted in and makes use of services in AWS GovCloud. This account is shared amongst many different teams; changes made to resources in this account will affect many services. You will need access to AWS for troubleshooting, log file review, and to apply changes to the running instances and services. 

For either SOCKS5 proxy and/or AWS Console access please create a "Environment Access Request" issue in Github. All SOCKS5 proxy access requests are reviewed by VSP Operations. 

In order to be granted AWS Console access, your PIV background (eQUIP adjudication) check needs to be underway. Please mark yes in the AWS Console access and provide a short description of why you need access. All AWS Console access requests will be reviewed by DEPO. **If you do not need access to AWS please mark "No" in the Grant AWS Console Access section**. Please ensure  all VA onboarding paperwork is submitted to your company/COR.

We will be walking through how to request access in the steps outlined below.

#### 1. Create [new SSH keys](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/blob/master/platform/engineering/internal-tools.md#create-ssh-public-key).

#### 2. Request that your SSH keys be authorized so that you can use the developer tools such as Jenkins, Grafana and Sentry.
* File an issue in [va.gov-team repo](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team).
* Use the issue template `Environment Access Request Template`
  * Follow the template instructions
    * Provide the name of your Contracting Officer's Representative (COR)
    * Provide your name, role and company
    * Paste the public portion of your ssh key. The template has an example.
    * Grant AWS Console Access? Yes or No.
  * Tag group `@department-of-veterans-affairs/vsp-operations` to review
  * Monitor the issue for updates and respond to any questions from the operations group.
  * Occasionally operations will need to reach out via Slack for additional information.

#### 3. When your key has been added, the Github issue will be closed, which will send a notification to you. This is your signal that you can continue to the next step.

#### 4. Configure [the SOCKS proxy](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/blob/master/platform/engineering/internal-tools.md#configure-the-socks-proxy).

#### 5. Understand [how to use the SOCKS proxy from inside the VA network and from the internet](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/blob/master/platform/engineering/internal-tools.md#accessing-socks-proxy-from-va-network).

#### 6. [Test and use the SOCKS proxy](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/blob/master/platform/engineering/internal-tools.md#accessing-socks-proxy-from-the-internet).

#### 7. Jenkins, Grafana, and Sentry

Jenkins, Grafana, and Sentry have been linked to GitHub for user authentication.
* The services will not be accessible until the SOCKS proxy is configured and working properly.
* When logging into these services for the first time click the button `Login with GitHub` or similar
  * You will be prompted to link your GitHub account and presented with a permissions dialog
  * Allow the service to access your account and view your Organization membership

#### 8. For AWS Console access
##### 8A. When your account has been setup, you will receive a Slack private message with your temporary password and login URL.
##### 8B. You are required to login and change the temporary password immediately.
* AWS will prompt you to change your password during first login
* Additionally you are required to setup a virtual MFA device in order to access services in the AWS cloud and programmatically via the CLI.
  * Follow the walk through for MFA setup [here](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/blob/master/platform/engineering/backend/aws-account-setup.md)


## Tools overview

### Jenkins

With the Socks proxy set up and running, go to http://jenkins.vfs.va.gov. You can see the builds without logging in, but will need to authenticate (with GitHub OAuth) to re-run failed builds.

### Sentry

With the Socks proxy set up and running, go to http://sentry.vfs.va.gov.

We do not really use Sentry teams except to separate production, staging, and dev errors. To view the most recent production errors, which is the most common thing to do while on call, go to http://sentry.vfs.va.gov/vets-gov/platform-api-production/

### Grafana
With the Socks proxy set up and running, go to http://grafana.vfs.va.gov/login. You can sign in using your GitHub account by clicking the "GitHub" button on the login page.

There are many dashboards and you should click around to get familiar with the variety of metrics being collected and visualized (make sure Data Source is set to Production). A few highlights are:

- [Site](http://grafana.vfs.va.gov/dashboard/db/site) to see overall metrics about the health of the site
- [External Service Status](http://grafana.vfs.va.gov/dashboard/db/external-service-status) to see the availability of the services vets.gov depends on.
- [RDS](http://grafana.vfs.va.gov/dashboard/db/rds) to see the database statistics.
- [Rev Proxy](http://grafana.vfs.va.gov/dashboard/db/revproxy) to see metrics on the reverse proxies.
