
Military history 

Note:  In all instances, please change Not applicable to Does not apply

3.0
Military service 
If you graduated from a military service academy, what year did you graduate? 

Are you on active duty? Yes No

Are you on terminal leave? Yes No 

You have to enter at least 1 period of service.
Each period will be applied to one benefit. You can indicate whether a certain period of service should not apply to the benefit.

This period of service should be counted towards another education benefit. 

Are you receiving, or do you expect to receive any money (including, but not limited to, federal tuition assistance) from the armed forces or public health services for any part of your coursework? 

Branch of service
Air Force  (** we noticed in the moqups that it read "Airforce" -- this may be a type .. just an FYI) 

Date entered
Month Day Year
Date separated
Month Day Year 

Service status

Were you involuntarily called for active duty during this period?
Yes No 

Were you commissioned as a result of senior ROTC?
Yes No 

3.2
Year of commission 

Are you currently participating in a senior ROTC scholarship program that pays your tuition, fees, books, and supplies?  (Covered under Section 2107 of Title 10, U.S. Code)

ROTC history
ROTC scholarship 
Year
Scholarship amount 

3.3 
Benefits history

Select all that apply:
I am receiving benefits from the US Government as a civilian employee for the same term I am seeking benefits from VA. (note: removed **the** before VA)

I made contributions (up to $600.00) to increase the amount of my monthly benefits.

I qualify for an Active Duty Kicker (sometimes called a ‘college fund’).

I qualify for a Reserve Kicker (sometimes called a ‘college fund’).

Do you have a period of active duty that the Department of Defense counts towards an education loan payment?
Yes No



