# Conversation Guide for [Health Enrollment Team, 10-10EZ, April 2024] - Toxic Exposure Questions Usability Study

## P10
---


## Intro - 5 minutes


*Start recording.*

- **I have started recording.** I'd like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record my screen and the audio as we talk today?
> Yes

- **Are you comfortable if we decide to use a recorded clip from our discussion today to share with other VA partners if we remove any information that can be used to identify you?**
> Yep


## Warm-up Questions (Optional) - 5 minutes

Before we look at the website, let’s start with a few warm-up questions.

1. Do you have health care through the VA?
- [If yes: They shouldn't have been recruited, but continue with the study]

> Yes, it is my only health care


2. Do you have a disability rating with the VA? [If yes] Are you comfortable sharing what percentage your disability rating is?
> yes
> Sure I am at 100%, total permanent


3. Just to verify how you'll go through the form today, is it correct that you do/do not have an identity-verified VA.gov login?
- [Tracker should show this; just check with the participant for accuracy so you know if they'll be logging in or not]
> Yes, I do

[Link to share in Zoom chat:] https://www.va.gov/health-care/apply/application/introduction

[If user is going to use their login:]
Okay now I'd like you to pull up VA.gov on your chosen browser and sign in. Once you're signed in, please share your screen with me. Let me know if you need any help doing that.

[Once they're logged in and sharing their screen:] Great, I can see your screen. Now I'm going to put a link in the Zoom chat and would like you to open it. Let me know if you need any help finding the chat.
*Wait until they have the 10-10EZ intro page pulled up*


[If user is not going to log in:]
Now I'm going to put a link in the Zoom chat and would like you to open it. Let me know if you need any help finding the chat.

Once you've opened the link and see a page that says "Apply for VA health care", please share your screen with me. Let me know if you need any help doing that.

- Instructed to go through unauthenticated since he has health care with the VA already

## First Task: Toxic exposure intro page review - 5 minutes

- Okay we're going to start the application so you can click "Start your application without signing in" [or "Start application" if they are signed in]
- The part of the form we're looking for feedback on today is about halfway through the form so we'll need you to fill in the next several pages wih either your real info or fake info. You can do whatever you're comfortable with. If you intend to submit the application for real, you'll want to enter your real info. If not, we'll remind you not to submit when we get to the end and you don't need to worry about entering accurate info as we go through the form.
- [Direct them through all required fields until they get to toxic exposure pages.]
- [Once they're on the toxic exposure section] Okay please stop here - this is the section we'll be going through together. Thanks for your patience with that!

> It's right here, it is just an extension so all I got to do is that 
> I can see, but you can't I have 2 screens
> I have duplicate live captions - I have Zoom and my own. So everytime I see you talk.
- Instructed through fake ssn
- enters in personal info information easily
- completes address and not not use browswer autofill
- Goes through form via short form flow, getting alert
  > I was confused for a second, it was double checking something I read
  > I felt like if I wanted to you could have done you are sure or bold
  > To identify, just being a little more obvious
  > There is a go back, there is no reason to go back and made that reasurrance
  > Felt redundant - made me think I was clicking the wrong thing - made me second guess myself
  > Think I missed out on something, kind of redundent
- Uses live caption when going through the Toxic Exposure intor page
- it is reading something from a different page.. highlights text then clicks browser plugin
> It is reading from the begining
> The extension on different website, I use chat GPT alot,
> There are pages I go to and it just exists and I can just click it - on headings and
> I don't know why it is trying to do the whole page, i don't like it
> With the 100% sometimes I go to VA.gov for the travel
> My healtheVet is the most common site I go to for the VA

- Hits refresh trying to get captions working again and it started the form over from the intro page
  > Lets double check what this looks like again
  > It is just confiming I knew what I click (short form alert)
  > Yeah,
- Reading a previous page still
- Using ReadAloud: A text to speech plugin on broswer, Chrome in Windows
- 

- I'd like you to read through this page as you normally would and let me know what thoughts you have and if anything is confusing.
- Would you select "Yes" or "No" for this question? Why?
- Okay for our purposes, let's select "Yes" so we can go through the questions.

> I didn't do any PACT act type stuff
> I did burn pits and was exposed to ...
> I don't feel like i have dealt with any health issues, I don't have cancer, knock on wood, no respirator issues
> Kind of like a screener question now when I go to the VA
> None of those thanks for me
- Selects yes to Gulf War locations
  > If you have multiple deployments, it is the last time I was there?
  > Or is that part of my critique, that they should have multiple options...
  > I guess there is this little thing right there
  > But yeah, then it is only basing it off of one exposure
  > What if somebody is looking for rating?
  > But my concern is let's say I put it down on my time in Iraq, then it would make it look like my only exposure is Iraq. That would be an assumptions
  > If the criteria is 3/10 to get this rating or whatever, and you don't get it
  > you should be able to present all the information, only one time you were exposed instead of the exposures
  > If there is one, you only have one. If you have multiple, maybe a little plus symbol on the bottom so they can add.. another and another
  > Maybe a specific location or operation, I feel location is best
  > I started with my first appointment, when I did this, that is what made sense
  > I served in a Gulf War location, made it sound I could have done it other time
  - Wanted more specific options to related to exposures
 > That is confusing... 
- Answers yes to Operations
  > Oh, Agent Orange, NO Just by my age
  > That's a yes (air pollutants)
  > Burn pits, other things burning garbage, unused ammo and other things
  > Chargers thing about it as,, just exposed to breathing that it, it feels gross
  > You blow your nose and it comes out black, probably not good for you
  - Checks occupational hazards
    > Yeah I think that is probably it
    > Maybe contaminated water but I can't speak to that
    > That was mostly our first time in Afghanistan, everyone got sick
    > I don't know if I am certain, if it was water or food or me needing to wash my hands more
    > I don't feel confident clicking that, could not explain confident so I would just let it be
    > This is another confusing thing - when you have more than one date range
    > It says we will find your record - is this just to establish that you were in the military?
    > But the way I take it, um, it is almost like the VA doesn't want to get extra information, more work I get that
    > More information, more to Vets payout, minimzie that payout and save that in our budget, I don't know
    > The burden of proof is on the Veteran
    > Now, there is a smoother transition
    > Always thought the VA should just get our medical records, and it could just be done,
    > You get out and the VA says you get this and number...
    > Military knows how people got hurt and they have it
    > But there is stuff that could just turn into a claim soon as you get out, but the burden of proof falls on the Veteran
    > Maybe the requirement is only one proof, this one exposure will count, Best to say all of them
    > You won't get more, but helpful to tell everything that happened to you.
    > At doctor, they can treat things not so general, but specialized. They have context.
    > I just confused, maybe trying to keep it simple, maybe I am an overthinker.

    - Changes to date page
      > First thing, if the VA just did it themselves
      > There is a level of them knowing you were or weren't but they are making some assumptions based off of timeframes
      > Agent orange right that kind of stuff.
      > Let's say a person of my ethnicity or age to say I dealt with ... can't say the word, experiement and stuff.
      > You kind of have a range of who is possibly eligible.
      > the VA the government, all the people that are exposed to Agent ORange so let's check them out and see if they are okay
      > Then we are going to have to ask them, or at that age they are not going to fully remember or dealing with PTSD and that kind of stuff
      > I think instead of having specific start date, maybe a different options, maybe even the begining
      > Not a narrative, that puts hard to put on a spreadsheet I get that
      > Maybe a breakdown, there is a date, we put down the year of exposure, the operation or location whatever seems practive
      > And then type of exposure
      > LEave all inclusive, hit other and type in somebody else. CLick other and write something that is already on the list.
      > A write in would be good idea
      > Year, the location, and exposure
      > When, where, what and a plus symbol to add more
      > Different years of those expsoures, this page and the other page, what was it, the Gulf War they didn't need to do that and break it off in locations
      > My exposure was in the Gulf War area - specific war or specific location
      > Say a year it doesn't match up - like 2008 and they say Vietnam,
      > You don't have to go through all these questions.
      > Three drop downs and a little plus underneath.
      > I use somehting call therapy notes, intervention and then I click plus and it adds one of those things.
      > It makes sense, if you don't need it you don't click the plus, nothing more to give.
      > It is still the same thing, date ranges are weird with exposures, it is not like a deployment, you know what I mean?
      > I would put it down as all of Iraq. Was I exposed every single time? No, there would be gaps
      > I guess that depends on the applicant, a wide range of applicants
      > Have people go with
      > Ughhh.. the VA (a lot of people say that)
      > This is not required?
      > That is weird one, if that is not required that makes no sense?
      > You are tyring to tell people you have some type of exposure but you have no dates
      > I still think the thing I said, my idea is perfect of course :)
      > The year of exposure, the location of exposure (drop down) and the exposure itself
      > The exposure itself put down other options and they can add more if need be
      > That would take away 2 or 3 of these pages alread, you wouldn't need to say these things
      > My location is not there, you are done with this form and you are not going to keep going

      > Are you elgibile for medicaid, I am not
      > That is confusing, Medicaid and Medicare it varies by state
      > I have VA does that count? (Private insurance question)
      > Yeah, sure I count it
      > I still get one of those tax thingies - even though it's not required
      - Does not comment on short form slim alert on insurance questions
      > where's F (trouble scrolling through location list)
      > Yeah (the one I was looking for)
      > I think this is pretty good, I am assuming I can test it. I am guessing because I selected North Carolina
      > The only way I can possible see it improved, not improved depends on the applicant
      > Some applicants might not know the clinic name, I do have a favorite VA hospital but that is not where I am assigned
      > My hospital not my doctor
      > I would say an AND option, or you could start typing it amd making it like a search engine
      > But make this to where if I start typing it, it will start trying to guess what you are tying to say
      > The variable is the client, that might or might not be a good thing
      > You might not get the right one I guess.. let's just leave it the way it is I guess


### Things to watch for:

- [Do participants express any confusion about the verbiage used on the intro page?]
- [Do any participants open the additional info dropdown for "Learn more about enhanced eligibility status for VA health care" without being prompted to?]
- [What comments, if any, do Veterans have about the term "toxic exposure"? Do they express any confusion about what qualifies as toxic exposure?]
- [Do participants express any confusion or frustration that VA should have their service history?]

## Second Task: Toxic exposure questions - 15 minutes
- Okay now you can go through the toxic exposure questions and I'd like you to think out loud as much as possible, noting if anything is confusing. You can answer honestly if you're comfortable with it because we're curious about an eligible Veteran's experence going through this form.
- [When they get to a screen where they have to enter service dates] Do you know these dates off the top of your head? [If no:] How would you find out what they were? How long would that take you?

### Things to watch for:

- [Are there any usability or accessibility issues with the TERA questions and/or date pickers?]
- [Do Veterans seem to get confused or stuck on any of the terminology used?]
- [Are Veterans able to answer the questions by just reading them, or do they need to reference other information to verify their answers?]
- [Do participants express any confusion or frustration that VA should have their service history?]

## Third Task: Document upload - 5 minutes
- [When they get to DD-214 upload page] How easy or difficult would it be for you to upload your discharge papers? Do you usually have those handy?
- Are there any other documents you would either expect to be asked to upload here or want to upload in support of your responses to the toxic exposure questions we just went through?

### Things to watch for:

- [How easy would it be for participants to upload their DD-214?]
- [Do Veterans expect to or want to upload other supporting evidence for TERA?]

## Fourth Task: Remainder of form - Rest of session until about 5 minutes remain
- Okay let's keep going through the form. It'd be really helpful if you can think out loud and explain what each section of the form means to you as you work through the questions.
- [On the household financial info page] Take a little time to read through this page as you typically would and tell me what thoughts you have or if anything is confusing.
- After reading that content, would you want to share your household financial information or not? Why?
- [On facility selection page] How would you prefer to select your chosen facility here? Why?
- [If they reach the review page] Okay you're at the final review page so please make sure you do not hit the blue submit button at the bottom if you don't want to submit this form for real. That would submit a real health care application to the VA. 

### Things to watch for:

- [Do they open the "Learn more about enhanced eligibility status for VA health care" additional info link without being prompted?]
- [What reasons do users give for why they would or wouldn't answer the household financial info questions?]
- [Do the medicaid and medicare questions cause pause or confuse the participant?]
- [How does the participant prefer to search and/or sort facilities?]
- [If participant gets to the review page, do they open the accordions?]

## Post-Task Interview - 5 minutes

Thanks so much for going through the form with me. I have a couple last questions before we wrap up:

- What were your overall thoughts about the toxic exposure questions we went over first?

> I think it still comes down to some things are redundent and can be streamlined
> I feel like i have talked to them, hopefully you understood what I meant
> I don't know the criteria of what the VA is looking for - don't know what the VA is trying to get accross
> 

- Is there anything you'd change about the whole form if you could?

> Okay, the overall. um... no, I don't think so.
> oh, maybe, here is an example in my life.
> Had a client I was seeing and they had a lot of difficulty getting VA care in general
> Accessing your records and stuff, in general and stuff, submit VA claims to get VA health care.
> With the PACT act a lot of people come forth, but they are going to access their military or medical records
> Inorporating with this
> The thing that happened in the past, real quick then I can put in for the PACT act stuff.
> I would argue, maybe I am not aware enough, your military information to find your record.
> Don't know why they are asking my mothers maiden name
> My name, DOB and SSn they should be able to find my records off of that.
> I had a person we had to dig so hard to get them their records, they dealt with so much blocking didn't recongize the dates for when training started when deployed
> THey know the stuff they needed to get the information but all the stuff they were being asked, didn't know
> Not even their DD214, their record, it was hard.
> If something came off the street if they could start the process
> This is just starting and not the social worker comes and clinic
> That done way before the
> Make VA more like CHAMPVA
> What is good about it is is essentially real insurance. Like Blue Cross blue SHield but a lower copay.
> My wife can get stuff done and for me I have to beg and steal
> I finally get a neurologist and complaints that can't get another

- Do you have any questions for me? 





## Consent to use video clips

- Lastly, I want to circle back and re-confirm that **you are comfortable if we were to share a video clip of this session with our VA partners?** Just to remind you, we will remove all information that could be used to identify you before sharing and will only share the videos with VA partners with the purpose of improving VA.gov and other digital experiences.



##
