# Conversation Guide for [Health Enrollment Team, 10-10EZ, April 2024] - Toxic Exposure Questions Usability Study

## P5
---


## Intro - 5 minutes


*Start recording.*

- **I have started recording.** I'd like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record my screen and the audio as we talk today?
> Yes
> And I am so it is recorded periodically I may need to mute or turn my video off due to activities in my office.


- **Are you comfortable if we decide to use a recorded clip from our discussion today to share with other VA partners if we remove any information that can be used to identify you?**


> yes
 
## Warm-up Questions (Optional) - 5 minutes

Before we look at the website, let’s start with a few warm-up questions.

1. Do you have health care through the VA?
- [If yes: They shouldn't have been recruited, but continue with the study]
> No not at this time

2. Do you have a disability rating with the VA? [If yes] Are you comfortable sharing what percentage your disability rating is?
> No not at this time

3. Just to verify how you'll go through the form today, is it correct that you do/do not have an identity-verified VA.gov login?
- [Tracker should show this; just check with the participant for accuracy so you know if they'll be logging in or not]
> Yes I do
> That's the fun part, I can never remember my login
> okay, we'll give it a go


[Link to share in Zoom chat:] https://www.va.gov/health-care/apply/application/introduction

[If user is going to use their login:]
Okay now I'd like you to pull up VA.gov on your chosen browser and sign in. Once you're signed in, please share your screen with me. Let me know if you need any help doing that.

[Once they're logged in and sharing their screen:] Great, I can see your screen. Now I'm going to put a link in the Zoom chat and would like you to open it. Let me know if you need any help finding the chat.
*Wait until they have the 10-10EZ intro page pulled up*

[If user is not going to log in:]
Now I'm going to put a link in the Zoom chat and would like you to open it. Let me know if you need any help finding the chat.

Once you've opened the link and see a page that says "Apply for VA health care", please share your screen with me. Let me know if you need any help doing that.

> I'm at the authentication code, give me a moment for that
> Okay, I'm in 
> It asking me to verify my identity and have done all that...
> With ID.me?  - it says I am in. I will click that link and see if it let's me (login.gov account content on screen)
> The last couple times I have logged in, it keeps making me verify myself.
> I have done my drivers licence and my DD214, and the mobile app where it gives me a VA key
> I normally lean more on user error than I do in software error... now it tells me that page isn't working, let's see..
> Something went wrong on our end, we can't sign you in take these steps to solve the problem (reading bullets of alert)

- [logs out to continue with form]

## First Task: Toxic exposure intro page review - 5 minutes

- Okay we're going to start the application so you can click "Start your application without signing in" [or "Start application" if they are signed in]
- The part of the form we're looking for feedback on today is about halfway through the form so we'll need you to fill in the next several pages wih either your real info or fake info. You can do whatever you're comfortable with. If you intend to submit the application for real, you'll want to enter your real info. If not, we'll remind you not to submit when we get to the end and you don't need to worry about entering accurate info as we go through the form.

> I was going to have to fill out some information because they were concerned about gas masks we used during basic training, some of the stuff we were exposed to
> Yeah - (..
> Even calling, those 800 numbers. It's a mess. It's a bad circle. Go to this number, please hold, would you like us to call you back.. so
> Why are Veterans not responding to filliing out these forms.
> Go through a third-party advocate to help, or you don't.
> The ID me I don't know if I did under my personal email, but I did one with my work.

**
- Was interested in competing the health care app for real but could not get account verified when logging in - states trying this process several times and not successufl
- Tried going through the form unauthenticated and ran into alert with SSN number to login to continue
- Reports calling 800 numbers for help also gets you stuck in a loop
**  

- Easily goes through Veteran information step


- [Direct them through all required fields until they get to toxic exposure pages.]
- [Once they're on the toxic exposure section] Okay please stop here - this is the section we'll be going through together. Thanks for your patience with that!

- Checked last item on Services list
- Skims over toxic exposure intro page with mouse, does not open additional info component about

- I'd like you to read through this page as you normally would and let me know what thoughts you have and if anything is confusing.
- Would you select "Yes" or "No" for this question? Why?


> It wasn't bad, it is clear
> (would want to answer those questions) yes


- Okay for our purposes, let's select "Yes" so we can go through the questions.



### Things to watch for:

- [Do participants express any confusion about the verbiage used on the intro page?]
- [Do any participants open the additional info dropdown for "Learn more about enhanced eligibility status for VA health care" without being prompted to?]
- [What comments, if any, do Veterans have about the term "toxic exposure"? Do they express any confusion about what qualifies as toxic exposure?]
- [Do participants express any confusion or frustration that VA should have their service history?]

## Second Task: Toxic exposure questions - 15 minutes
- Okay now you can go through the toxic exposure questions and I'd like you to think out loud as much as possible, noting if anything is confusing. You can answer honestly if you're comfortable with it because we're curious about an eligible Veteran's experence going through this form.
- [When they get to a screen where they have to enter service dates] Do you know these dates off the top of your head? [If no:] How would you find out what they were? How long would that take you?


> As far as the clean up and response efforts, when I go back to these questions ( served in Southwest Asia)
> Yes if I was exposed, but the clean up of .. (reading bullets from list) I guess if the software coincided with the SW Gulf War between these timeframes
> If the Veteran served in these areas it should be clear, that is a different time era, Does that make sense
> (not sure why it is showing this based on previous answer of checking service history item)
> These clean up efforts would not coincide with what I clicked, I guess they keep it general?
> This is a different time era that should have been cleaned up already, not aligned with my service in the 80's and 90's
- Answers no to the toxic exposure questions
- Clicks Chemicals on Other Exposures question, pauses reading warfare and then clicks Other
  > Um they are pretty clear, I think back to basic training and my AIT training and the location I was at. Being exposed to these toxins make sense to the locations I was at.
  > That makes sense
  > You mind if I click on this? Learn more about exposures (opens new tab and scrolls through)
  > Just curious, when we did gas mask training, they make you take it off if part of the training, if it was faulty, that stuff had stuff in it was detremintal
  > Just putting tear gas - everyone who was been through basic training has been through tear gas training
  > It is only one time, but there is some other explosive training we did. the smoke coming off of that stuff could be detremental
  - No issues with dates
    > Nah I just made them up. It had to be in the latter -- it had to be in the early 90's
    > I would go back to my DD214 to look at my basic training dates. There were several windows of time during training exposed to tear gas and other explosives
    > When I got to ... some of the training involved
    > That is just me thinking through
 > One of my friends says he was exposed and he says he remembers a rash



### Things to watch for:

- [Are there any usability or accessibility issues with the TERA questions and/or date pickers?]
- [Do Veterans seem to get confused or stuck on any of the terminology used?]
- [Are Veterans able to answer the questions by just reading them, or do they need to reference other information to verify their answers?]
- [Do participants express any confusion or frustration that VA should have their service history?]

## Third Task: Document upload - 5 minutes
- [When they get to DD-214 upload page] How easy or difficult would it be for you to upload your discharge papers? Do you usually have those handy?
- Are there any other documents you would either expect to be asked to upload here or want to upload in support of your responses to the toxic exposure questions we just went through?

> I guess I can see if it will let me bypass that part
> Honestly depending on the age of the Veteran and the time frames that you have for the - them having it scanned and a file to access and upload
> One of the Veterans I know, would possible be calling us to help him. to make sure his papers are scanned, or what is this upload thing they are talking about?
> If you talk to someone who is 10 years older, might have a problem
> I have scanned my DD214 so I have it to complete


### Things to watch for:

- [How easy would it be for participants to upload their DD-214?]
- [Do Veterans expect to or want to upload other supporting evidence for TERA?]

## Fourth Task: Remainder of form - Rest of session until about 5 minutes remain
- Okay let's keep going through the form. It'd be really helpful if you can think out loud and explain what each section of the form means to you as you work through the questions.
- [On the household financial info page] Take a little time to read through this page as you typically would and tell me what thoughts you have or if anything is confusing.
- After reading that content, would you want to share your household financial information or not? Why?

> Of couse nobody wants to share their financial information
> Based on if they work, or able to work... (skimming page and reading out loud)
> And this note right here we verify the info with the IRS - I know I need medical help and now you are saying some of this might be based on income and verify with IRS
> I would find it a little bothesome
> Once again, it is going into personal information. And then the age of the Veteran, if that Veteran is still filing their taxes.
> The amount they are getting from benefits is not a lot, so they might not be filing income tax
> And for some, why even bother
> We call these enhanched eligibilty factors, if you dont we will use your income to decide - that makes sense
> I guess, to be honest, it almost pisses you off.
> You had me fill this out because of chemicals that cause health issues, then run through some extra circles due to stuff you had me exposed to.
> You are telling me you owe me becuase you did this to me, but then you may be eligible based on factors of my income
> Told me to fill this out due to my issues, then 
> Fill this out so we can make sure you are taken care of, by the way you may not qualify.
> We are going to make you jump through hoops to get care, even though it is our fault.
> If you are telling me to apply,
> You are the one you put me in harms way with the chemicals, why do I need to give you my financial information
> If I need it or not, you have already stated it is your fault.
> You have people who know how to fix what you exposed me to.


- Selected to NOT disclosed financial information

  **Insurance step**
  - quietly completes easily, skips insurance step

- [On facility selection page] How would you prefer to select your chosen facility here? Why?
  
- Uses drop down to select facility and then directed back to insurance question skipped
> Operating off of some of the Veterans I know
> Should I go back and answer what is real for me
> I guess the thing is, why would you want to know if I had insurance or not?
> If you stated I got exposed and get care, why do you need to know if I have insurance or not?
> Other than sitting down with a case manager at the VA, they have so many people trying to get through, do you have this information or not, click click click


> some of those you can type in the first part, or the ones that list all the ones in Dalas
- Opens facility selector
  > It is not going to put it here, so I still need to go down the list and see
  > Not sure the CBOC, just going to pick that one
  - Put in zipcode on facility selector to know if selecting the right one
  > this is the one I was thinking of (uses zip and map on facilty selector to add)
  > It would help if these were in alphabetical order... it just means I need to slow down and slowly scroll through
  
- [If they reach the review page] Okay you're at the final review page so please make sure you do not hit the blue submit button at the bottom if you don't want to submit this form for real. That would submit a real health care application to the VA. 


> these are always helpful, you can go back and "what did I put" that helps
> No pretty cut and dry, everything is there

### Things to watch for:

- [Do they open the "Learn more about enhanced eligibility status for VA health care" additional info link without being prompted?]
- [What reasons do users give for why they would or wouldn't answer the household financial info questions?]
- [Do the medicaid and medicare questions cause pause or confuse the participant?]
- [How does the participant prefer to search and/or sort facilities?]
- [If participant gets to the review page, do they open the accordions?]

## Post-Task Interview - 5 minutes

Thanks so much for going through the form with me. I have a couple last questions before we wrap up:

- What were your overall thoughts about the toxic exposure questions we went over first?
> Um, not bad. Other than what I shared earlier, if it was Operation Desert Storm, that was active
> This will probably coming out later, if there was exposure during basic training
> I'm rambling, but yeah it was fine
  
- Is there anything you'd change about the whole form if you could?
> No, if those are things they are stating they have to have if they get medical help and assistance the upper has decided to ask or feel they would need.
> yeah, the financial information I know for a fact, why would you be asking me about my finances, this is my health
> The insurance question, I can see why they asked that,
> More questions like if you are receiving care -- more questions like that compared to my finances and insurance.
- More follow up questions about toxic exposure and issues (medical)
> Issues with my lungs or eyes more pertinant than finding out about my finances
> Or an inability to work due to a correlations between vision or lungs

- Do you have any questions for me? 
> No, this is always interesting. 


## Consent to use video clips

- Lastly, I want to circle back and re-confirm that **you are comfortable if we were to share a video clip of this session with our VA partners?** Just to remind you, we will remove all information that could be used to identify you before sharing and will only share the videos with VA partners with the purpose of improving VA.gov and other digital experiences.



##
