# Conversation Guide for [Health Enrollment Team, 10-10EZ, April 2024] - Toxic Exposure Questions Usability Study

## P9
---


## Intro - 5 minutes


*Start recording.*

- **I have started recording.** I'd like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record my screen and the audio as we talk today?
> yes

- **Are you comfortable if we decide to use a recorded clip from our discussion today to share with other VA partners if we remove any information that can be used to identify you?**
> yes

## Warm-up Questions (Optional) - 5 minutes

Before we look at the website, let’s start with a few warm-up questions.

1. Do you have health care through the VA?
- [If yes: They shouldn't have been recruited, but continue with the study]

> No

2. Do you have a disability rating with the VA? [If yes] Are you comfortable sharing what percentage your disability rating is?

> Yes
> 10%

3. Just to verify how you'll go through the form today, is it correct that you do/do not have an identity-verified VA.gov login?
- [Tracker should show this; just check with the participant for accuracy so you know if they'll be logging in or not]

> I;m gonna say yes from when I first created my account

[Link to share in Zoom chat:] https://www.va.gov/health-care/apply/application/introduction

[If user is going to use their login:]
Okay now I'd like you to pull up VA.gov on your chosen browser and sign in. Once you're signed in, please share your screen with me. Let me know if you need any help doing that.

[Once they're logged in and sharing their screen:] Great, I can see your screen. Now I'm going to put a link in the Zoom chat and would like you to open it. Let me know if you need any help finding the chat.
*Wait until they have the 10-10EZ intro page pulled up*


[If user is not going to log in:]
Now I'm going to put a link in the Zoom chat and would like you to open it. Let me know if you need any help finding the chat.

Once you've opened the link and see a page that says "Apply for VA health care", please share your screen with me. Let me know if you need any help doing that.

- Talks through when he is logging in and states using Safari on VA.gov
  




## First Task: Toxic exposure intro page review - 5 minutes

- Okay we're going to start the application so you can click "Start your application without signing in" [or "Start application" if they are signed in]
- The part of the form we're looking for feedback on today is about halfway through the form so we'll need you to fill in the next several pages wih either your real info or fake info. You can do whatever you're comfortable with. If you intend to submit the application for real, you'll want to enter your real info. If not, we'll remind you not to submit when we get to the end and you don't need to worry about entering accurate info as we go through the form.
- [Direct them through all required fields until they get to toxic exposure pages.]
- [Once they're on the toxic exposure section] Okay please stop here - this is the section we'll be going through together. Thanks for your patience with that!

- Has alert for does not qualify, 24 months active duty not served.
- States in the process of filing claims now
- Signs out and continues unauthenticated, talked through the link at the bottom

> Then I have to scroll up.. now idea
- enters a fake social security number
> Continue
> Oh look, my address popped up for auto fill
> City, wonder if it will do it or not (entering in state)
> Just say... yes or? I am not 50, but up to 40% of course so that is where I will apply.
> Marine Corps that how they have it listed
> And then you got to remember because that is always the hardest part (dates)
> The real dates? Pretty close but not exact.
> Um, thats a hard one (make sure they were correct) probably go looking to see if I had an email from when I was in
> Actually I would check card, my VA card, Does that have it? (checks and does not)
> Obviously a DD214 would give me my start date and end date, and technically try and remember my last day.
> I didn't get anything on my last day, you just walk out.
> then your 2 years and then request your final honorable certificate in the mail
> The certificate might have the actually dates, or just says served honorable.
> It is hard to find that information, so just best guess
> Especially being out for so long, fulfilled by contract in 2018, the last DD214 I had printed I put in a safe. My service record book when they went digital
> Never tried my login for the Marine Corp to see if I had documents.
> I;m going to say none (service history page)

- I'd like you to read through this page as you normally would and let me know what thoughts you have and if anything is confusing.
- Would you select "Yes" or "No" for this question? Why?
- Okay for our purposes, let's select "Yes" so we can go through the questions.


> okay, (reads outloud)
> Learn more about that status - I have never heard that before (opens additional info componenet)
> Things we just checked off on the previous screen
> (I would put yes) When I went through the enhanced eligibility ... anyway I saw the words contaminated water and that stuck out to me.




### Things to watch for:

- [Do participants express any confusion about the verbiage used on the intro page?]
- [Do any participants open the additional info dropdown for "Learn more about enhanced eligibility status for VA health care" without being prompted to?]
- [What comments, if any, do Veterans have about the term "toxic exposure"? Do they express any confusion about what qualifies as toxic exposure?]
- [Do participants express any confusion or frustration that VA should have their service history?]

## Second Task: Toxic exposure questions - 15 minutes
- Okay now you can go through the toxic exposure questions and I'd like you to think out loud as much as possible, noting if anything is confusing. You can answer honestly if you're comfortable with it because we're curious about an eligible Veteran's experence going through this form.
- [When they get to a screen where they have to enter service dates] Do you know these dates off the top of your head? [If no:] How would you find out what they were? How long would that take you?

> I am in step 3 military service response efforts
> I'm going to say no...
> (Gulf War) all those are out of country and have not no
> (operations) I'm going to say no because I wasn't
> I question that in becuase my unit when once but I did not go with them because I had just arrived
> I am assuming it is no,
> Nobody communicates to you, just told to do things
> (Agent orange) No I have not
> I look at Asbestos and think there is a possibility. But just during training and old facilities.
> (Checks chemicals - sees contaminated water)
> This one is very specific and an actual case that was brought up - for training purposes, can't remember. Probably, can't remember anything specific off the top of my head.
> (continues reading through page)
> Dates of exposure
> I would say it would be from ... 2010 to 2011 when I was going through all the training.
> From when I would have been through - the way I thought of it and the scenario and the water I was exposed. There is another time further in training but not active duty time.
> What I have been told, it has to be orders, not training.
> They told me all of that is not part of any claim.
> It comes from the claim process and what I did
> My time in service, didn't count pass my first boot camp and training. They tell me all my orders knocked off. If you are not deployed out of country you  are essentially a nobody.
> Although I served, durign those times we were doign deployments for war, during my time in they were trying to reduce the force.
> People getting kicked out,
> My process I went through when filing a claim
> Where in those parameters I would have been exposed




### Things to watch for:

- [Are there any usability or accessibility issues with the TERA questions and/or date pickers?]
- [Do Veterans seem to get confused or stuck on any of the terminology used?]
- [Are Veterans able to answer the questions by just reading them, or do they need to reference other information to verify their answers?]
- [Do participants express any confusion or frustration that VA should have their service history?]

## Third Task: Document upload - 5 minutes
- [When they get to DD-214 upload page] How easy or difficult would it be for you to upload your discharge papers? Do you usually have those handy?
- Are there any other documents you would either expect to be asked to upload here or want to upload in support of your responses to the toxic exposure questions we just went through?

> I would take my DD214 that would show that active order time, it is one page in PDF form
> Scan that
> That works too actually if I had it in a safe.
> (other documents) I would say there isn't really any other papers than a separation papers.
> If anyone did have any of those specific pages, you know when you have a DD214 or any others that are listed there. 


### Things to watch for:

- [How easy would it be for participants to upload their DD-214?]
- [Do Veterans expect to or want to upload other supporting evidence for TERA?]

## Fourth Task: Remainder of form - Rest of session until about 5 minutes remain
- Okay let's keep going through the form. It'd be really helpful if you can think out loud and explain what each section of the form means to you as you work through the questions.
- [On the household financial info page] Take a little time to read through this page as you typically would and tell me what thoughts you have or if anything is confusing.
- After reading that content, would you want to share your household financial information or not? Why?
- [On facility selection page] How would you prefer to select your chosen facility here? Why?
- [If they reach the review page] Okay you're at the final review page so please make sure you do not hit the blue submit button at the bottom if you don't want to submit this form for real. That would submit a real health care application to the VA. 

- (reading outloud of household financial intro page)
> Verify with the Internal Revenue Service, pefect
> Then I have to scroll up on this page
> Let's just say yes... Because I am being led through it and relating the VA to the military mindset I would put it in just for the sake of providing the information.
> If I could skip it, if I click no, I wonder what it would say after that
> A possibility it would stop me
> It benefits me to just share the informaiton anyways, with what I make I don't make a lot of money I don't feel it would negatively affect me
> If it was a bit more in my face that it is optional and not a requirement
> I would deny,
> There are things that stick out to me here such as I am married and have a dependnet
> That assists me or helps me get what I am looking for to what to file for and what I deserve and put my in the right category.
> 
> Deductible expenses will lower the amount we count as income - that's interesting
> That doesn't stick out to me right away, I would just know my weekly expenses deducted from that
> That makes sense - that part - if I have 15K of expenses it will take from my income. that makes sense
> I need to understand my spouse information
> (enters in some fake info)
> Date of marriage - put me on the spot here, I will put the real day
> That sentence right there, that is how I have been thinking. Just providing everything will get everything faster.
> If you don't you will double the amount of time and the back and forth.
> What about animals, that would be great (dependents)
> Answers yes
> Then I will honor him...
> (enters in DOB of 1999)
> Cool, it shows you the dependent you just added, you can remove and
> I read right there, you would put your wife as a dependent?
> But it says here, spouse... when I look at that do I put my wife to as a dependent? Which doesn't make sense if she is working
> I don't normally put her as a dependent, I would put my son
> For my knowledge, I would put no and just put my son,
> It lets you put in a comma there that was interesting
> I put in 60 and it didn't correct, it kind of bugged out there before, but now it works
> That is not disability, the words disability, i wouldn't know if I would need to put it there or not?
> I am definetley unsure and will take it black and white for what it is. If it does not say disability I would not put that, why would I
> We definetly hit our deductible, so 5K is probably realist.
> We are under my wife's medical plan, so she handles all medical
> I know I would have to contact her to get that number - right now is an educated guess. That is a guess, not an exact amount. 
> I'm not in school, but it would be nice...

- Insurance information step
  > I am not eligible for Medicaid
  > I would say yes - health insurance coverage
- Opens additional info drop down (reads outloud)
  > Okay
> Then you have to enter in all this stuf..
> It makes sense (drop-down content) You know the VA is going to split - they are going to cover some or all the condition I am runnning through the VA and private.
> Obviously they are not going to pay for everything, but some things
> Put this in then don't run into any red flags down the road
- The tri care drop down and policy number causes pause)

> (ACA) I have insurance, in my mind would not enroll to get minimal essential coverage and with the description below that does not apply to me.
> I am going to leave it blank, I don't think I want to enroll in something and then end up enrolling in the wrong clinic.
> The VA facility locator, look at that
> This is nice to pull it (facility locator) if you don't know it. Cause clearly I don't know
> Just going to add my zip and what VA health. There you go, if I was going to click that one, it just goes further into it.
> And then if I jump into this (back to form) I mean that is just an optional thing.
> But up above it is telling me where they are, down below do I even need it? Seems like extra work
> If I new all I needed to do is fill the drop down.. the OR... if it said you don't know..
> Like I had to do state, clinic and then click. Down the steps, thinking I have to click into the link kind of.
> If it clearly stated if you did not find something above, you can find.. applicable to you
> that is related to that above, but the link is just there
> Feels out of place - when I am reading it, I can learn more cool, you can also visit Veterans Living Abraod, it would let me know if I need to go into it.
> Maybe if it just explained those instead of the small snippet it has there
> I would say yes (appointment)
> Then you can review the application - I can open these up, and click edit at any of the points.
> So they start showing up in the right in bold,
> Did I not put my place of birth, okay that explains the bold



### Things to watch for:

- [Do they open the "Learn more about enhanced eligibility status for VA health care" additional info link without being prompted?]
- [What reasons do users give for why they would or wouldn't answer the household financial info questions?]
- [Do the medicaid and medicare questions cause pause or confuse the participant?]
- [How does the participant prefer to search and/or sort facilities?]
- [If participant gets to the review page, do they open the accordions?]

## Post-Task Interview - 5 minutes

Thanks so much for going through the form with me. I have a couple last questions before we wrap up:

- What were your overall thoughts about the toxic exposure questions we went over first?
> It's nice, because in the review part here it lists it and tells you
> It coves a lot of things I hear about, and people in other ocupations
> That warfare biological that one kind of confused me becuse I don't know, but I know it doesn't apply to me
> Clearly the water and probably would have picked asbestos if I had more information as to where it applied to
> When I am looking at it and thinking about it, thinking of WHERE
> People don't know it but the barracks and facilities panels probalby had asbestos
> Would be more clear with examples maybe, where asbestos might be
> Just saying, I know I have the knowledge it is around us still in many buildings. Some people live in homes that still have asbestos.
> are they talking about standing next to it, staying there, do work in it...
> They are pretty straighforward (toxic exposure questions)

  
- Is there anything you'd change about the whole form if you could?
  > For the most part I think it was fine
  > It definetley went through with little issues and the drop down definitions
  > I don't know what this is and it is right there below it, that helps out a lot.
  > It is pretty standard from what I have seen too, makes it easy for anybody to go through that process.
  > Definelty works in my opinion.
  
- Do you have any questions for me? 

## Consent to use video clips

- Lastly, I want to circle back and re-confirm that **you are comfortable if we were to share a video clip of this session with our VA partners?** Just to remind you, we will remove all information that could be used to identify you before sharing and will only share the videos with VA partners with the purpose of improving VA.gov and other digital experiences.



##
