**Conversation Guide: VSA Caregiver, Discovery Research for the 10-10EZ form**

*Start recording to the Cloud.*

* **I have started recording. I'd like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record my screen and audio as we talk today?" Yes**

Great. Now we're really ready to begin!

**Warm-up Questions - 10 minutes**

* Tell me a little about yourself: I retired in 2013, I was in the navy for 33 years. Actually I have been working on my va benefits for 8 years and haven’t made much progress.

* Why so long: The va isn’t an easy thing to work with and when on the wrong track it is hard to get back on. I retired, I don’t know why they didn’t have infomration and then FedEx’ed me the infomration and got it on the day of my medical appointment. when I missed one they cancelled them all. It’s like va prison.

* Right after retired: yeas about 9 months after.

* Healthcare: I am retired so I have that. It is about my disability. I have had success on my Gi bill. At the time va was messed up, it was 2013, the admin was cruel punishment at that time. I have been through worse in my lifetime.

**Health Care application introduction page - 10 minutes**

* Please read the entire page and let me know if any questions come to mind: This will apply to me once it gets fixed.

* Have you done it before: No, I have not filled it out.

* Thoughts/questions: it looks kind of straightforward, I will say its synthetic. There’s no graphics or anything. It gave me the impression that a computer nerd made this. I apologize to the computer nerds because we need them. It doesn’t look inviting I will just put it that way. The blue and the grey breaks it up a little bit. It looks like a va benefits site.

 

* After participant reads and initial questions are noted:

    * What do you think of the listed requirements?

    * Is there anything that you would not have on-hand or would need to prepare before starting this application? I would have to read it; does it say what you need in here to start the application. See right here, the most recent tax return, do you have to give that to them. That’s a lot of information. Anytime you provide it to all one place it means you are vulnerable. Most places don’t require the last tax return, is this a bank. Sometimes the plain language, I guess it means it is collective for a credit union.  It is not only my financial, is that my wife and both my kids. SSN and DD214 I got that. Here it goes into government bureaucracy. For everyone in my family, man this just starts looking hard.

    * Keep you from applying: I would start looking at it and ask why they need my daughters bank information. I could be reading it wrong or not understand why they need the dependents information.

    * Do you have any additional thoughts or questions? I like that they talk about vision and dental stuff.

**Applying for healthcare benefits task - 25 minutes**

Personal information: No it is straightforward. I like that it has the steps up here. Even though I have done two pages I am on step one, then I am like how long is step one. Now when you go to gender there are normally more than two, then one under describes has prefer not to answer. I fill these out all the time, everyone is tracking. I am old and I don’t have a home phone, I don’t know why people ask for it, no one has it yet. It could be just contact number, maybe it matters to you.

Preferred way of contact: I like being notified by text. Then you follow up with an email. I have a military appointment Monday and they send a text and if you have questions email this. Sometimes here they will ask what you prefer.

Service information: I didn’t realize there were so many options there. I am just making up the dates.  I am an officer and I don’t know if we get the character of service, I retired. I guess its honorable because the others don’t look so good. I don’t know but the last 4 look bad, so there are more bad choices then good choices.  I have never heard of this; you have to be a Marine here anyways.

What’s this page for: It is kind of a weird one. I have the purple heart thing; POW is not a whole lot of those. I know there are some. I know when growing up we had a lot of POWs from Vietnam. These are almost backward. Most retired now served in the gulf. There are oddly specific ones then exposed to radiation. Well I don’t know if I was. I assume when in the military you are exposed to all types of things they don’t tell you about. Then Vietnam between these dates then the one below is broad.

How is it used: I don’t know, I guess they are trying to binned you in. like agent orange is big and there isn’t one here for it. they have Vietnam wasn’t big for radiation.

Why purple heart: because I know a lot of men and women with purple hearts. People can have it on their license plate. Do you know why they are on there. Whys camp Lejeune there.

Would you have the dd214 on hand, would it be easy or hard for it to be uploaded: You have to be prepared but if you plan to apply for va then you need a lot. If you don’t have it you need to find it. The other thing, uploading documents with military documents it doesn’t say how you will use it or secure it. will you give it to the Russian hackers. I live 60 miles south and they don’t have gas. I think people are going wacky.

Do you have it on hand if filling it out: I have something that says I am retired. The r3eservisits don’t get a dd214 you get a statement of service. I don’t know the other forms. Everyone knows what a dd214 is its common but they don’t understand reservists don’t get it and then have something that says you have this many years. I had to prove I was a veteran and they accepted my retirement papers.

Common as a retiree: Officers get dd214, that was a specific reserve thing. A discharge, do you have to be retired. I guess it’s any military service because it has dd214. Up here you might say retired someplace. This is talking about if you leave before you retire. Then down here, most people know a PDF and doc. When you put in the other theses it is it gobbley gook.

What resource would you use: I know them exactly.

Va benefits: I am in another category for adjudication process. I have submitted but its not done yet or whatever.

Financial disclosure: (reading page) This gets confusing for how it is worded. You have the big hammer there. I just had to read it slow, I think I have it now. I just needed to read it slower, that’s just me, I haven’t finished my cup of coffee. What does recent mean, last 10 years or 2 months. We haven’t had combat in a little bit. It is a definition thing.

Change the mind back to other page: It doesn’t make a difference because I wont be a purple heart or pow. I wasn’t in Camp Lejeune or in Vietnam. This is an age thing for Medicaid. I would click on it to learn more.

Spouse: Its always a trick to know if you can remember your wife’s birthday and your anniversary. This would be funny to see if they are paying attention put did your spouse want to live with you last year.

Household: you might need a definition, is it under 18, elder parents, disabled children. There are a lot of definitions for dependents. I have a friend with a 38 year old son with down syndrome.

What would you think of: the things I told her, generally without legal benefits. It goes with the IRS if you can report them then I guess that is it. that’s a guess not an answer. I see it is financially based and want to be as honest as possible, no one is trying to get away with things but want to qualify.

Annual income: How did you know I was a veteran farmer.

Thoughts: oddly specific. (reading page) In my head you have your work, retirement , you have this. If you had an employer you’d put that down, I don’t know where to put retirement income. That is just binning it up and they just want to total the number so it doesn’t mask a difference.

Deductibles: I don’t even know what that means.  See the need help thing. I don’t know fi you tried to call the va its not a non-stressful event. What does this mean. Clicks what if my expenses are higher.  Is that travel, co-pays. Maybe if you had something over here to explain what it meant.

What would you do: You just kind of figure it out because you cant continue unless you fill it out. You do your best on the information given and they come back and ask for documents you clean it up at that point. I would make my best guess on what it was and put that in. This one looks like a recurring event and this happens once in a lifetime thing so its morbid to have it on there.  I like this one, I don’t know how it is related to medical, I just finished a course last night. Number 2 is morbid and number three isn’t.

What’s going through your head: it is one of those things. Medical and education expenses are annualized and the other is episodic. So lick it to relieve if you have it.

Insurance: I don’t think I am eligible but I would want to learn more. Oh this says learn more about Medicare  part a, so that means I need to learn more but then this is the effective date. If I don’t need to learn more. It s a catch 22. Why would I ask to learn more if I knew my effective date. This gives me less trust that someone that put this together. I would just make up a date that I thought looked right. Then when they ask for backup, I am at step 5 and don’t want to stop now.

would have given up earlier: I might have. You are almost at the end or just answer no. I would just put no.

va facility: I don’t even know what this is, clicks learn more. I don’t think I am doing that. I am just looking on here. I am trying to see where they all are to get the most convenient  but then there’s the better one. If I were in Baltimore, I would go there I would look around there.

Is that the one you wanted: okay, this is good because it is a locator. I know one here. I am not going there for an amputation but regular  stuff.

How to be contacted to schedule: if they had the thing to be contacted by text or email I would assume it would go that way because I already answered the question. All government forms aren’t logical.

What would you expect: Since I want to be contacted, I don’t care how they contact. I have provided my email, number, and address. This just comes to mind, there is always a backup email like my spouse because we’re just getting old and my wife’s not on the email so a secondary point of contact. She needs to take care of me if I fall. If I cant get into my email she needs to be able to know I am going to the va.

Review: you can look in here. I have seen ones similar. This is the EZ form I think I am glad I didn’t use the original. This was easy but the other must be a doozy. It was a little confusion and nonlinear. I would give it a 7 out of 10 for government forms. It’s not bad I had a good experience. I am kind of pleased with it.

What about a general form: it is still good. I would say a solid 6 of 10. I think the steps were misleading, maybe a percentage or how many pages. At the beginning it did say 30 minutes when is started

Current estimate: I would say that’s the minimum. It is important you cant do it in ten minutes. We have been chatting here so maybe 30 minutes is right. When I read it will take 30 minutes, I don’t take that as a specific number but it will take a bit

* (After submission) What do you expect to happen next? I would get an email confirmation. Then I would go to my email to make sure I got it. if I didn’t then I would need to screenshot or print this. If it has this in here, this is the important stuff and if it is in the email that I know I have the important stuff.

* Expectations: I would trust them since it says a week. This means its in the inbox and they will get back to me. They would let me know if it accurate or not. This is nice that you can go to the va site to see where its at.

**Post task questions - 10 minutes**

Wonderful! I have a few questions about your experience filling out this form.

**Overall**

* What worked well? I liked the click down; it was easy to do. It wasn’t overly complex. There were some confusing terms, some of the things binned up, overall specific dates, purple heart. That just means I don’t know what it means. I am more familiar with agent orange.

* If someone you knew was going to use this form to apply for VA Health Care, what advice would you give them? I would tell them you need to know this this and this. Then how much is spent on non-reimbursement medical; I would pass that one because it was confusing to me. You need to be at a computer with he forms already on here so you can upload it. it says tax return, you just need the first page or two. Why do you need all of it and depending on when you do it, you might not have one yet.

* Thoughts: I think graphics on here. Just simple graphics, you could put it out here. VA man/lady with a thumbs up so you feel good about the process. I am not talking about a big marketing campaign just small graphics. Just to break it up with a simple graphic.

**Wrap-up questions - 5 minutes**

* Do you have any questions for me before we conclude? When is this going live.

**Thank you and Closing**

Well we really appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us today. Your feedback is so helpful to us as we continue to improve our products and services for Veterans and service members. Great, thank you so much again, and enjoy the rest of your day

 

