**Conversation Guide: VSA Caregiver, Discovery Research for the 10-10EZ form**

*Start recording to the Cloud.*

* **I have started recording. I'd like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record my screen and audio as we talk today?" Yes Ma’am.**

Great. Now we're really ready to begin!

**Warm-up Questions - 10 minutes**

* Tell me a little about yourself: I am my husbands caregiver since 2012-2015. I am tiffany

* His healthcare: His healthcare is through the va he is 100 percent disabled so we use the va.

* Process: It was started when he was hospitalized, a social worker guided me through the process because I had never done it before. It was 2014-2015. I did the online form to we a POA, they would let me go back even though I am wife. He had to sign the wavier for me to be the POA. Then the social worker guided me and then learning from other wife and on my own. I was guided while he was in the hospital but then I was on my own.

* Best resources: other wives and organizations like Elizabeth Dole, and other military organizations other than the va because you are put on hold. It is a lot of confusion especially now. It is intimidating. It had been like that but now it seems like it is more challenging now because of COVID. everyone is busy busy busy.

* How many years has it been since you left the service?

**Health Care application introduction page - 10 minutes**

* Please read the entire page and let me know if any questions come to mind: It sort of looks like that. It looks familiar with sign in and start. I remember going to check the status was a little bit challenging for me. IT jogs my memory.

    * Is there anything that you would not have on-hand or would need to prepare before starting this application? The dd214. Yeah when my husband was in the hospital, PTSD, and all that. I didn’t know what a dd214 was. I really had to go through all of his military stuff, I was not prepped for that, he wasn’t like here’s my dd214.

    * How did you find it: I looked through his military bags and started to look through those and I finally found it.

    * Other ones that stick out: Financial information perhaps. I don’t remember giving up that.

**Applying for healthcare benefits task - 25 minutes**

Veterans infomration: Nope, it is self-explanatory. Yes, I put my email so it goes to me. Same with the number.

Service information: It is something I had to learn because I just didn’t know. I married him when he was already in. certain thing as a wife, spouse, and caregiver. It is challenging because who asks these questions. Maybe some do when dating. They’ll tell you the year but the not exact a date, like you just don’t know that. This I know from reading his things because he didn’t tell me he was in combat. I had to research. I found on his dd214, then spoke with a VSO which helped guide me through these things.

From dd214: Yupp. If I ask him he doesn’t know.

How long did it take to get through the form: it took a couple of months, I had to play spy trying to gather all of the information.

Thoughts: no ma’am. Ill go back to look. The only thing is that you would have to know and if you don’t know you don’t want to just click them all.

How is it used: As to what services they need. I know for 9/11 veterans they are in a different categories then the gulf war veterans. So certain things that are offered could not be available for them. Things are coming together now. I mean if you were exposed to radiation maybe those are key things that would popup in the system.

Have you uploaded before: it is only difficult because I had to figure out what a dd214 was. I just have it on my computer now. Uploading was the issue as long as its in the right format. They explain it but if they aren’t computer savvy they wont understand the forms and it can’t be more than 10MB. Sometimes I was trying to upload things that were to big. It is self-explanatory for me but for others they might need to go to a VSO for help.

How to make it easier: that I don’t know. In my age bracket they are computer savvy but my husbands friends are Vietnam and there has been times that I have done it for them. I want them to be able to use the va and not get frustrated and put it off.

Va benefits: You would need to know the status. Yeah I had to research that to because I didn’t know. I knew he was rated but I didn’t know the ratings. The va does it differently. Like you can have it and you think it adds to 60 but it only adds to 40. I don’t know how they do it.

Financial disclosure: There are a lot of caveats to this. You really have to know what your position is in order to know if you need to pay a co-pay or something like that. I think this is self-explanatory. It is all of the factors, say someone doesn’t know where they stand they might skip it and forget it.

Assume you know you are qualified: Yes and when you talk financials I say why must I do that. It is sensitive and private. It triggers some people. Not that they are trying to hide something then if they have something they might not want to put it. the point is to get services. From me hearing and going through it, it’s the end result that they are looking for. It gets people flustered when talking financials. Maybe they’ll give up or just give up for that day. When you don’t know then you just don’t know and cant do it anymore that day.

Cause some people to give up: yes. Not all but some.

Spouse: They are asking it in case you get benefits and you get extra because your spouse is with you. That is an assumption.

Would it be clear the spouse part is for you since it is for your husband: Yes. It is clear

Dependents: no.

Annual income: This is self-explanatory. As I said before you get to this point and you could be like I don’t know or why are they asking this. Are they asking me this because they don’t want me to have the benefits. Are people very transparent. Will they be honest, I have no idea.

Feel that they don’t want the benefits: it is a lot of questions. I mean okay if I am service connected, am I qualified or not. I got hurt and dealing with issues. Does this really matter. If I am 100 percent does any of this matter, I don’t know.

Would you know the answer, from farm income: yes unless he was hiding somethings. I am playing it out like I am in the scenario. So I can give the actual answer if I were in this situation.

Questions: No ma’am.

Deductibles: That question is scary (Funeral). I feel once again it is self-explanatory but I am the type of person I will me like mhhhh. The wording where it says , expenses are higher than income I thought maybe click on that.   There’s where that question is answered. If I had higher numbers that’s where this comes into play. When I see things like a question is sparks my curiosity to see what they say.

Function as expected: it didn’t answer how I thought, I expected worse. You expect the worse but hope for the best. When you assume, some people get frustrated. Had I clicked on that and read this it would not have added extra stress son me. During this process, if you get stressed it will effect how you navigate or not navigate the system.

Why alleviate stress: it is clearing letting them know that the expenses can be higher but they will adjust it to match income. Then it will not effect your income. Maybe make it full instead of a drop down because your mind could use its imagination. If it were open and ion your face it would allow your mind to be a lot more at ease with everything else and more open as to answering the questions correctly. More honestly shall I say.

Insurance: we have SS and Medicare. Would this question be to me now or would it be someone new or my mind blank. What would this be. This right here could have I don’t know. If I put no then I am saying I don’t think he is or if I put yes then I think he might but how does he get on that. I wouldn’t know that answer. I just don’t know I would be frustrated and just put no because I either one of the answers would not be our truth. Our truth is determined on someone saying yes he is or no he isn’t because I am not in charge of that. I don’t know if it would have made me stop filling it out but I would have halted and it could have been a challenge. I like knowing, I would need to reach out and ask how to move forward because there should be something other than yes or no. there is no grey area in there

Next one similar: Yes. If I didn’t know about this then I wouldn’t have known about that. I would question it, stop, and use this number for help to ask since we don’t know the real answer to that.

Other coverage: at the time yes because he was working at the time. I don’t remember this information. This is self-explanatory.  

Va facility: Clicked learn more. Okay so now I know. I was in AZ back then and I would like to be there now. There was a lot more offered at the VA, I am out of my element here.

When picking clinic, how did you know: Before I choose phoenix, the big one. The reason I changed it was because when we moved in AZ I just picked the ones the closest to us. I researched them by zip code or heard from others about the clinic. We went there and we lived near there but then chose to do Scottsdale which was 40 miles rather than 7 miles away due to demographics and the social economic status. it was just difference. We didn’t have many people; we weren’t in the waiting room long. It was smaller, more personalized. Where at the other one there was so many people, we chose to go further out for better care. I take my husband to Naples because it is equivalent to Scottsdale.

Review:  I would go across and make sure its right. They have the edit button you can go through and edit it if its not correct. Everything looks right so click read and accepts.

* (After submission) What do you expect to happen next? I would expect someone to reach out to me. It says they decide within one week and so I would mark my calendar I would give them 8 days then I would reach out.

* How would they reach out: Maybe a letter or email since they asked for email and address

* Prefer method: I love phone calls because they are personal to me. I like phone and email because of the paper trail. If you don’t have it then someone’s word could be nothing.

**Post task questions - 10 minutes**

Wonderful! I have a few questions about your experience filling out this form.

**Overall**

* What did you think of the overall experience in completing this form? It was good, straight forward. The working could eb changed other places. It’s not extremely hard for me. If you are dealing with [people not computer savvy there could be an issue

* What was the hardest part of completing the form? Having the correct information.

* What worked well? The self-explanatory questions and answered, click the buttons, and it wasn’t to long. I like that.

* If someone you knew was going to use this form to apply for VA Health Care, what advice would you give them? Have patients, do the research and if you have issues call that hotline or talk to a VSO to gather information.

**Wrap-up questions - 5 minutes**

* Do you have any questions for me before we conclude? I don’t, I mean I enjoyed the process and you picking my brain.

**Thank you and Closing**

Well we really appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us today. Your feedback is so helpful to us as we continue to improve our products and services for Veterans and service members. Great, thank you so much again, and enjoy the rest of your day

 

