**Conversation Guide: VSA Caregiver, Discovery Research for the 10-10EZ form**

*Start recording to the Cloud.*

* **I have started recording. I'd like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record my screen and audio as we talk today?" Yes it is**

Great. Now we're really ready to begin!

**Warm-up Questions - 10 minutes**

* Tell me a little about yourself: I am a caregiver on the support system and have been in it since 2014.

* How many years has it been since you left the service? He is my husband and ahs been separated since April of 2006.

* POA: Yes, we probably have to get that updated among other things of course.

* His healthcare: His care is through the VA so if he needs anything done we get authorization for community care or goes to the va. Honestly, he has used the VA since he has been out unless we need to go to urgent care

* Process: We didn’t meet until 2011 and I am not sure how he applied.

**Health Care application introduction page - 10 minutes**

* Please read the entire page and let me know if any questions come to mind: I like the simple layout, it tells you what is required from the start. There are links and a number to get help. It is simple and it reminds me when I went to change the schools for the educational benefits. Nice conditionality.

 

* Is there anything that you would not have on-hand or would need to prepare before starting this application? No.

**Applying for healthcare benefits task - 25 minutes**

Go ahead and continue as if you were applying for healthcare.

 

Veteran information: Again very simple, easy to get through.

Typical you fill it out: Oh yeah. My typing skills tend to be better and he doesn’t like filling it out. Not that he wont but it does help.

Service information: It is super straightforward.

Did you know this or is it something you look up: Normally I will get it off of his dd214, I have used it so many times. Sometimes I remember and sometimes I don’t.

Military service: Again very straightforward, easy to get through. It is an online version like the  caregiver application on paper.

Discharge papers: I normally do have it on hand and I would scan it then upload then delete it off the computer. I don’t like to keep it on the computer. 

Financial disclosure: It says you don’t have to provide it.

Would you provide it: I mean honestly it isn’t that I don’t trust anyone. It ahs been in the experience of having my identity stolen so I am cautious of what I put online and even for online orders. We have been there and done that it was never thousands but we had to contact the fraud department and open new bank accounts. Nothing is immune to errors so I wouldn’t.

Spouse: It is the same infomration you would be giving the IRS for taxes.

Questions: No, again I think I have filled out so many of these.

How would they use the information: honestly to set up the file and make sure it matches other records. I would expect them to compare with the active duty and then use it for what they need and get rid of it. to be as secure as possible.

Dependents: I guess I thought that is was easier to just put me but we have a child. Honestly, I have seen va applications take a while, even the first time when you input everything for the very first time. After that it tends to get easier.  

Annual income: Separating it out, other income you could put in SS, unemployment, to make it clear because I know some people might make that clear.

Need more clarification to where it fits: Sure.

Questions on there: I was getting myself mixed up. It is just my brain. Maybe have the space for age, I don’t think they would ask income for a 10 year old.

Infomration you would know: yes. Like if we need to make a change to life insurance he would be involved but normally I am the one paying the bills.

Review: it does help because if you miss something you can go back. It makes sense.

What if to edit: Click the edit button then change it and save it and go back to review. There ya go.   

* (After submission) What do you expect to happen next? Honestly, I would print it for my record so I know when it was completed on. I would expect to get infomration in the mail from the va or by email. If that is not part of the process then yes because not everyone will print this off.

* You would think they would email you a confirmation: at least mail me a letter stating that they received my completed application.

**Post task questions - 10 minutes**

Wonderful! I have a few questions about your experience filling out this form.

**Overall**

* What did you think of the overall experience in completing this form?

* Did you feel unprepared to answer any specific section/s?

    * Is there anything you wish you knew/ or that would have prepared you more for filling out this form?

* What was the hardest part of completing the form?

* What worked well? It was easy to complete these aren’t forms you don’t have access to. Like when it asks for the dd214 or discharge paper. This is if any responsible caregiver doesn’t have them in hand they know where they are.

* Did work: lack of information why they need income. Also when you put in an age, when asking an adult then yes ask for income but under 15 don’t ask for their income. It is just more to fill out. The more you do for their veteran that would just make it more cumbersome.

* If someone you knew was going to use this form to apply for VA Health Care, what advice would you give them? Make sure you have the right website link and the correct documents, and the confirmation page printed. Have the number to call if you need help when filling it out.

* have you don’t that: Yes when applying for travel benefits online

* that was that: that was interesting because it was my local va , they had been using the paper form. I wasn’t getting the straight answer and customer service connection kept dropping. It is part of the course; I think things just happen. The technical difficulties we have been running into a lot.

* Local va: I called their it department and the sub-department that dealt with it. it is hard to get through but there were a lot of technical difficulties like I called back 5 times and don’t get me started with telehealth. It was on their side, if there’s a backup you deal with it but when dealing with veteran then it needs to be better. He would need to do it a 100 times to get it but I only have to do it a few times.

* Thoughts: he was skeptic. There was a plan but not like the steps today. Now they expect to have a caregiver.. He had family and they were older and didn’t want to mess with it. it was a learning curve for me. It was a lot of talking to the 800 number to learn where I would go. The vso helped, honestly the caregiver support line was very helpful as well.

**Wrap-up questions - 5 minutes**

* Any other thoughts about the form? It took a fair amount of time but when putting in it for the first time then it will take longer and if you haven’t allotted enough time then that’s on them not the va.

* Longer or shorter: it is fair besides filling out the questionnaire for jobs.

* Do you have any other insight or thoughts in general about the VA Health Care application process?

* Do you have any questions for me before we conclude?

**Thank you and Closing**

Well we really appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us today. Your feedback is so helpful to us as we continue to improve our products and services for Veterans and service members. Great, thank you so much again, and enjoy the rest of your day

 

