**Conversation Guide: VSA Caregiver, Discovery Research for the 10-10EZ form**

*Start recording to the Cloud.*

* **I have started recording. I'd like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record my screen and audio as we talk today?" Yes.**

Great. Now we're really ready to begin!

**Warm-up Questions - 10 minutes**

* Tell me a little about yourself: I served in the air force reserves in 2005, did a deployment to Iraq in 2007 then I left in 2011. I have been out since then.

* Healthcare: I have va and personal.

* When you applied: I went in and tried to apply for just medical for a few things then I was informed I had to fill out the disability then have it linked. It was clear but I was automatically enrolled. After I went through that it automatically enrolled me. Sometimes the things online, you cant always get in. after the disability stuff I tried to login to ebenefits instead of va.gov and had issues and the amil took forever so I didn’t know there was  time lapse between knowing and getting in.

* Disability online: yes.

* Then waited, how long: I think I started looking in August or July. I finally filled it out so august or September, had to do exams. I don’t think I got the medical notification. The exams were done by November then medical letter in January February. Started in July 2020. It was a health care packet.

* Have you used it: I have, I have had one appointment so far. They gave instructions, apparently you cant access the book online.

**Health Care application introduction page - 10 minutes**

* During the lapse, what were you doing since you didn’t know: I was trying to get logged in, made a few calls and I think there was just a times lapse of getting the information there. I had to change my name, for some reason it was wrong. My name is still my maiden name for medical. I had both of them for some reason and I don’t know how to change it. when I went in they told me it would go through eventually. When I filled for disability it was the correct name though.

* Did you ever use this page: I applied this way first then had to do the disability. I didn’t even think of the disability I just wanted to be seen so I applied for healthcare first. Then I was told I wasn’t covered because I am not retired so I had to link it to my service. I think it was a  month or month and a half. It seems like you get a letter for everything. I have been trying to change it to email. 

* How long did it take: I filled it out twice because after the disability. I didn’t know you would be automatically enrolled because I got a letter on my disability and I could eb qualified so I filled it out again then got the letter I was automatically enrolled.

* Impression: I didn’t think it was bad. Overall I thought it was easy to fill it out.

* Certain source of life circumstances that made you apply: yes. Covid kind of made a lot of stuff reappear and get worse.

* Please read the entire page and let me know if any questions come to mind:

* Prepared or have questions: I have  a habit not to read it all so I just go to the **Applying for healthcare benefits task - 25 minutes**

Veteran information:  then continue.  I don’t know why I had to come here; it is confusing. It is the same as I just filled in, the only difference is the mothers maiden name but its not required. I wouldn’t put it in so I don’t know why this page here. This one with place of birth, I have seen it be security questions but I would just skip it. security questions to create an account, it could be the maiden name or where you grew up to fill in to retrieve the password. That’s what it reminded me of because of the birthplace and mothers maiden name. I wouldn’t fill it in. I haven’t seen filling that type of stuff. The gender and material status make sense. You can check more than on so that’s good. Except more options would be nice, I am not sure American Indian would be native American. I normally select native American and while. I am not sure if American Indian is the same.

What would you do: I might have just left it as white or google it. I cant remember. I don’t know if I have seen it. then some things I filled out have more options I guess. It wasn’t required so you don’t need to fill it out.

Do you normally fill it out: it depends on what it is. If it’s not required probably not because of time.

Information: This all makes sense because it is mailing. That makes sense to. It would be nice if the email address, there was an option to receive it all by email then maybe fill it out then choose it. it looks like I am getting everything by mail because I put in my home address. I would leave this blank because it’s not required and I don’t tend to put in my number unless it is required.

Service information: That makes sense. I was just seeing if they had reserves. Like army national guard. I know air guard it part of the air force but I didn’t know if it was down to the reserves. I was checking to see if there was an option. It is not always there when filling it out. Its been awhile since I was in. filling it out lately when I don’t see reserves I think you were active duty. I know it is all air force branch. I would have to go back to my DD214, I wouldn’t remember it now. I remember when I joined. I think the main thing would be my dd214. This makes sense if you have any.

How will it be used: Well it is a little because purple heart is the award, POW is a little different vs award. Maybe separate these out. There are a few that are confusing. I don’t see Iraq or Vietnam. I was in Iraq so there isn’t IOF. I was looking for anything for when I served but I didn’t see it so I just continues.

Discharge papers: I had my dd214, so I have always had it on hand. That was okay. 

Financial disclosure: That was a little confusing starting to read taxes. I don’t fill my husband does. When I started reading IRS was a bit confusing. I was just thinking to myself I don’t know if I know that. I don’t fill out the taxes so this would be hard for me. I would need my husband to pull it for me. I had to call my husband when filling it out then I had to wait because he was at work and had to wait for him to get me the information to complete it. when I was signed in I was able to save and continue later. That is a nice feature. I didn’t have it both times when doing this. Even though I got it the first time I needed it again the second time.

Spouse: I would have to contact him again for his SSN, I would not know that off hand. DOB is easy. That wouldn’t be too bad I would just need to get his SSN.

Dependents: I think I remember because we have three dependents. When you add another. I think you have to fill it in all over again. It was repetitive. It would be nice to click a box if they have your last name, more often than not they have the same name. I guess your dependents could be parents. Then I would need to look up SSN for kids.  Now since it is a son, it would be nice if this would just fill in unless there is an option like step-son or adopted. This would make sense if this was an adoption. If I clicked birth or biological I wouldn’t need to fill this in again. It is repetitive to me. If he came into my life when I gave birth. This should only populate if they are determined to be in that age unless it actually applies. The same with college expenses. It seems silly to be required. Yeah it’s a lot of the same. I had to do it three times. It would be nice for the last name to just transfer.

How long did it take: I don’t remember I think it took a while.

Annual income: this is when I called my husband.

How was it for him: not on hand that’s why I needed to stop and wait for him to get the forms. That took time to.

Taxes: yeah to see what the income was. I always get confused about net income because I don’t do taxes. Then I see farm or ranch and I don’t have that. Does your house count?

Do you remember: I put 0 because I don’t know if we actually own it since we have a loan.

Uncertainty: yes especially if you don’t do your taxes. I had to ask my husband. I had to have him do his income, there is no way I would have known . It seems silly if he is underage I guess you could start working at 16 but he was under that so it was silly.

Fair to say if it is a child that this wouldn’t be here: yeah, maybe if they are of working age where they could make income it would make sense.

Thoughts feelings: No, it just requires you to have the infomration. Some might have it or people that don’t do their own taxes would. It was a little harder for me. Same for the deductibles so I had to have my husband help me with this.

Experience: time consuming and the process and it had to be done. I couldn’t do it on my own from a break form work. We had to do it in the evening with children running around. It is hard to do focused tasks with kids running around so I wish I just had the information.

Normally do it at work: If I can take a break I try to because it is quieter. I try not to do the forms when home with the kids.

Desktop or phone: desktop

Compared to other forms, is it easy, time: I like the steps on top so I know I am almost there. That helps. Its not to bad. Just a few areas that are tedious. It had been awhile since we have applied for a loan but I know they require the expenses too. Non-reimbursement medical expenses, it would be nice to have an explanation. Like all you pay for the deductible or not or out of pocket when you have personal insurance. Can you put that in this because you can’t get it back. It would be nice to have the explanation to ensure you can count that.

Insurance: those are pretty easy. Maybe a definition of Medicare. Its like for lower income and you qualify. I don’t think I qualify but it would be nice to have the definitions. I don’t know why I am getting these because I wouldn’t be old enough. I can see why were being asked but a definition would be nice. I went and googled to see.

Dotted line with learn more: I totally didn’t see that. I saw the dots but I guess I didn’t see learn more or click it. I think when there’s more information they star it. I just saw Medicaid and the blue line didn’t mean much. I totally missed that. I would need to pull out my card, it is all on my insurance card. I would be able to fill this out pretty easily. Now that I know that’s there I would click on that. I would have had to look up the affordable care act.

Did you google: I wasn’t enrolling in it so I would click it.

Va: it seems silly to pick a clinic unless I knew that.

How did you know: I click find locations so I did use that. I tried to find one the closest to me. That was fine it was like google map thing. This is a hyper link so I knew I could click it; we use hyper links for work so I knew I could click it. This page wasn’t to bad. I questioned why I filled it out when I didn’t know if I would be covered then got the letter I wasn’t covered so why did I have to fill it out.

Review: makes sense

To change: click edit, that is pretty clear. I think the hyperlinks are easier.

* (After submission) What do you expect to happen next? I guess this. Usually I am familiar with here is your receipt or thank you for submitting like this. I guess an email but that wasn’t an option. Like an email confirmation. I guess it says to print this but I don’t know how and I don’t see a print area.

* Thoughts on to be contacted: Probably within a few weeks and it says it is done within 1 week. I remember seeing that.

* felt confident on what would happen: No, looking at this I didn’t know how they were going to contact me. They don’t send in email and it does say by mail. I just figured I would need to keep signing in and check. That’s what I do with my disability. I just signed in to see where it was at.

**Post task questions - 10 minutes**

Wonderful! I have a few questions about your experience filling out this form.

**Overall**

* What did you think of the overall experience in completing this form? There are a few confusing parts and it would be nice for it to be clear. It is time consuming so it would be nice not to have duplicate information. Sometimes you just relate it to the va and the va is slow. I know a lot of veterans say the va is slow so it is a general feeling. You just know it will take time. Overall it was just the va. It wasn’t horrible just time consuming. I guess a link would have been easy for a link tot axes. We had it online. If we could have linked to what we filled out and auto populate that would have been nice. I remember doing that within school, in college we always had a link and I didn’t have to do anything. It just did it for me.

* Did you feel unprepared to answer any specific section/s?

    * Is there anything you wish you knew/ or that would have prepared you more for filling out this form?

* What was the hardest part of completing the form?  Financial part and having to figure it all out especially when you’re not the one that does the taxes.

* What worked well? The continue and seeing the steps and seeing it. knowing what is required and what’s not so only having to fill out the required things.

* If someone you knew was going to use this form to apply for VA Health Care, what advice would you give them? Make sure they have a good hour to sit down and do it and make sure you have your DD214 and financial forms.

**Wrap-up questions - 5 minutes**

* Do you have any questions for me before we conclude? No

**Thank you and Closing**

Well we really appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us today. Your feedback is so helpful to us as we continue to improve our products and services for Veterans and service members. Great, thank you so much again, and enjoy the rest of your day

 

