products/health-care/champva/1010D/research/users/Usability-Accessibility Test (April)/Conversation Guide.md, before:

# Conversation Guide


## Intro - 5 minutes.

Thanks for joining us today! My name is [NAME], and [NOTETAKER NAME] is taking notes. I also have a couple of other colleagues in the Zoom waiting room who would like to observe and take notes. But before we get to them…

Today, we will ask you to interact with a prototype of the 10-10d, a form associated with applying for CHAMPVA benefits. We will then ask you a few open-ended questions about your previous experience with the application process.

Before we start, I have a few things that I want to go over with you:



* This entire session should take about 90 minutes. I want to be sure not to keep you much longer, so I may occasionally prompt you with the next question or topic.
* In this session, we want to hear your honest opinions. There are no right or wrong answers; we are not testing your knowledge or abilities. I welcome any and all of your feedback, and I won't be offended by any opinions you express.
* Your participation in this interview is completely voluntary. You do not have to participate if you don't want to. Whether you choose to participate or not will not affect your benefits in any way with the VA. If you would like to stop the session or do not want to answer a question for any reason at any time, that's no problem. Please let me know, and we can move on to the next.
* I know the folks who invited you to participate in this interview asked if it was okay to allow people to observe this interview, but I want to double-check with you before we get going. Are you okay with a couple of additional observers during this session?
    * If no: Use Slack to kindly ask the observers to leave the Zoom.
    * If yes: Admit observers.
    * Then, ask the notetaker and observers to give a brief, camera-on introduction, like their first name and position with VA.gov. (This is meant to humanize the interaction of observation for the participant.)
    * Once complete, ask the notetaker and observers to turn off their cameras for the remainder of the session to save bandwidth
* You'll be interacting with a prototype today. This is a demo tool that may not function exactly the way you expect. Some areas of the prototype will be clickable, and some will not. Since it's a demo, none of your actions will affect your VA information or benefits. While you are interacting with the prototype, we would like you to share any thoughts with us verbally. Please think out loud throughout the process to help us understand why you are choosing to interact with the prototype in the way you are. This helps us greatly in improving the product, and as stated before, anything you say will not be held against you in any way, and we will not be offended.
* Are you comfortable if I record my screen and audio as we talk today? We use the recordings to confirm that we have captured your opinions accurately. After we complete the analysis, the recordings are destroyed, and none of your comments will be attributed to you directly. We either report findings in groups (i.e., 5 out of 10 participants said this) or if we want to quote you directly, we take away any identifying information and give you a participant ID, like P7.
    * Knowing that, are you comfortable if I record my screen and audio as we talk today?
* One of the ways that we share findings with our partners across the VA is by showing short video clips of sessions with Veterans. In these video clips, we blur out any information that could possibly be used to identify you, like your onscreen image. Sharing these video clips can be a compelling way for our partners to understand better what veterans go through when using VA.gov and our digital products. These clips will not be shared outside of the VA. We don't know if we will, but we like to ask ahead of time. At the end of the interview, I'll also confirm that this is okay with you, so you will get a chance to veto this once you know what we've discussed.
    * Knowing this, would you be comfortable if we decided to use a clip of our session with you to help our partners understand Veteran's experiences?
    * If yes: Once I start recording, I am going to confirm that you are okay with me recording this session once more.

Start recording.



* I have started recording. I would like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record my screen and the audio as we talk today?
* Are you comfortable if we decide to use a recorded clip from our discussion today to share with other VA partners if we remove any information that can be used to identify you?


## Warm-up Questions (Optional) - 3 minutes

Before we look at the website, let’s start with a few warm-up questions.



1. Have you ever applied for the CHAMPVA program? (a cost-sharing program for spouses and children of Veterans with disabilities who don’t qualify for Tricare)
    1. Facilitator note: This should be a quick yes or no screener; in-depth conversation about their experience with the program should be avoided at this time.
2. Tell us a little about yourself.
3. What branch of service were you (or your sponsor) part of?
4. What types of places did you (they) travel to as part of their service?


## First Task: [Usability/Accessibility session] - 50 minutes



* Step 1: I will now send you a link to our prototype in the Zoom chat. When you click on it, the screen should open; feel free to adjust it so that you are comfortable and navigating, similar to how you would with most websites. If you have any questions, feel free to ask.
* Step 2: Please proceed through filling out the form as if you were attempting to apply for benefits. Feel free to fabricate responses that fit the fields if you feel uncomfortable inputting your personal information. As stated previously, however, we will be removing any of your identifying information, and nothing you do here will impact your actual benefits or services in any way. Please vocalize what you are thinking as you proceed. As we mentioned earlier, please ask if you have any questions. Please know that if you do ask questions, I may not answer them because the purpose of the study is to see how you naturally interact with the form and not to guide you through it. Since it’s just a prototype, not everything will look or act as you expect. \
 \
 Also, please be aware that none of your information will be shared if you use your own as you interact with the prototype. We would prefer that you make information up; however, if you have trouble doing this, please let us know, and we can provide you with some fabricated information to enter.
    * Facilitator note: If the participant struggles with fabricating information or prefers not to, please give them some placeholder information from below.
    * Facilitator note: Have the participant interact with the list-and-loop as if they had multiple applicants.
    * Facilitator note: Have the participant interact with the Medicare Card uploads. (Prompt them to behave as if they had both parts A & D or two different cards)
* Step 3 (after 50 minutes or after the form is completed): Thank you for going through the prototype with us. Before we move on, we’d like to ask: 
    * What would you expect to happen next upon submitting the form successfully?
    * If you could tell the designer of this prototype to change three things, what would you have them change? (before they shut down the prototype)
* Step 4: We are going to switch things up and ask you a few questions. If that is alright with you, please close the prototype.


### Things to watch for:



* Step 1:
    * Be prepared to guide the users through getting the prototype running step-by-step.
* Step 2:
    * Before the participant begins the applicant portion, ensure they know to interact with the “list-and-loop” as if they had multiple applicants to add to the form. In addition, probe how they might approach it if they were filling out the application for someone else.
    * When the participant reaches the Medicare question, stop them and have them walk through the upload process as if they were submitting their cards. Be sure that they express how they would gather the information and how they believe it would be uploaded and received by the form.
    * Probe more deeply on any comments/observations made regarding usability or content. (e.g., Could you explain more about that remark? | I saw you pause there while looking at X. Could you explain more about what you were thinking? | What would make this easier? | Did X work as you expected?) and stay mindful of contextual inquiry best practices.
    * As testing continues, be aware of additional tasking that may be needed (such as progressing down the living/deceased paths in the flow, what a participant would do if they had no address for the sponsor, how they might go about obtaining documentation in different circumstances) that may need to be directed if the demographic does not seem diverse enough.
* Step 3:
    * Be prepared to guide the participant through shutting down the prototype and reassure them they are not doing anything wrong.


## Post-Task Interview - 30 minutes



* What motivated you to complete the CHAMPVA application process, and what did you hope the outcome would be?
    * Facilitator note: This should lead to the conclusion that they did apply for CHAMPVA benefits in the past, when, and their general experience/feelings/feedback.
* What is most important to you when applying for benefits through a program like CHAMPVA?
    * Facilitator note: This should result in responses about trust/security in comparison to paper/VSO if they are relevant. This should also help inform the service design initiative (journey map, key metrics impact, service blueprint). Further probing may be needed if the response doesn’t correctly reflect these points.
* What was most memorable about your experience applying for CHAMPVA benefits?
    * Facilitator note: The response to this question should give a general impression of their experience, some pain points, and opportunities for improvement. Amend additional probing questions as necessary.
* Walk us through the steps you took from learning about the CHAMPVA program until the completion of the process and receipt of benefits to the best of your ability.
    * Facilitator note: This should further inform the user journey map and the other service design artifacts. If the response isn’t sufficient, additional probing may be required.
* Placeholder for SUS pending discussion
* Do you have any questions for me?


## Consent to use video clips



* Again, I want to confirm that you are comfortable if we share a video clip of this session with our VA partners. Just to remind you, we will remove all information that could be used to identify you before sharing. We will only share the videos with VA partners to improve VA.gov and other digital experiences.
    * If yes: Is there any part of our discussion you would NOT want shared in a video clip?


## Thank you, and Closing - 2 minutes

We appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us today. Your feedback is so helpful to us as we continue to work on the site and ensure it works for Veterans.

Thanks! Lastly, Perigean will send you a thank you note with a little blurb that you can pass along to other Veterans you may know to allow them to participate in future research studies.

Thank you so much again, and enjoy the rest of your day!


## Emergency Exit

We will follow and have practiced the standard guidance for an emergency exit strategy found below:

We recommend you plan a graceful exit strategy that you will feel comfortable using during a session. Your goal is to wrap up the session without further incident or escalation. It is important not to blame the participant since it could increase any distress or trauma they are experiencing. If you are exiting for a reason, it’s best not to share any personal details, as it may create additional stress for all. Examples of exit strategies that have worked include:

Out of questions: We have covered all the questions I have for you today. Thank you so much for your time and feedback.

Blame technology: I am so sorry, but I just learned that the [website/prototype/thing I wanted to test with you today] is unexpectedly not working. I apologize for the inconvenience and thank you for your time.

Backup Moderator: This is best practiced beforehand, but it can work if there is an emergency with the moderator. Appoint another team member on the call as the backup moderator. You can say, “For the next part of this session, [backup moderator name] will moderate.” They should be prepared to jump in if something happens to you or you are not comfortable to finish the session.


## Placeholder Information

This information will be provided to individuals who run into a scenario where they are having trouble coming up with something or do not want to make up their own answers. The facilitator will choose the appropriate type of information from the set and relay it to them if needed.


Names: Joe, Sam, Margot, Betty \
DOBs: 2/16/46 | 5/24/52 | 8/19/55 | 12/24/42 \
SSNs: 123-45-7890 | 654-13-0987 \
Addresses: 1 Poplar Lane, New York, NY 10001 | 2 Cedar Drive, New York, NY 10001 \
Relationships: Son, Step-son, Spouse, Daughter \

Commit message:

Update Conversation Guide.md
Adding a question to the warmup to inform us about AT user's current setup.

products/health-care/champva/1010D/research/users/Usability-Accessibility Test (April)/Conversation Guide.md, after:

# Conversation Guide


## Intro - 5 minutes.

Thanks for joining us today! My name is [NAME], and [NOTETAKER NAME] is taking notes. I also have a couple of other colleagues in the Zoom waiting room who would like to observe and take notes. But before we get to them…

Today, we will ask you to interact with a prototype of the 10-10d, a form associated with applying for CHAMPVA benefits. We will then ask you a few open-ended questions about your previous experience with the application process.

Before we start, I have a few things that I want to go over with you:



* This entire session should take about 90 minutes. I want to be sure not to keep you much longer, so I may occasionally prompt you with the next question or topic.
* In this session, we want to hear your honest opinions. There are no right or wrong answers; we are not testing your knowledge or abilities. I welcome any and all of your feedback, and I won't be offended by any opinions you express.
* Your participation in this interview is completely voluntary. You do not have to participate if you don't want to. Whether you choose to participate or not will not affect your benefits in any way with the VA. If you would like to stop the session or do not want to answer a question for any reason at any time, that's no problem. Please let me know, and we can move on to the next.
* I know the folks who invited you to participate in this interview asked if it was okay to allow people to observe this interview, but I want to double-check with you before we get going. Are you okay with a couple of additional observers during this session?
    * If no: Use Slack to kindly ask the observers to leave the Zoom.
    * If yes: Admit observers.
    * Then, ask the notetaker and observers to give a brief, camera-on introduction, like their first name and position with VA.gov. (This is meant to humanize the interaction of observation for the participant.)
    * Once complete, ask the notetaker and observers to turn off their cameras for the remainder of the session to save bandwidth
* You'll be interacting with a prototype today. This is a demo tool that may not function exactly the way you expect. Some areas of the prototype will be clickable, and some will not. Since it's a demo, none of your actions will affect your VA information or benefits. While you are interacting with the prototype, we would like you to share any thoughts with us verbally. Please think out loud throughout the process to help us understand why you are choosing to interact with the prototype in the way you are. This helps us greatly in improving the product, and as stated before, anything you say will not be held against you in any way, and we will not be offended.
* Are you comfortable if I record my screen and audio as we talk today? We use the recordings to confirm that we have captured your opinions accurately. After we complete the analysis, the recordings are destroyed, and none of your comments will be attributed to you directly. We either report findings in groups (i.e., 5 out of 10 participants said this) or if we want to quote you directly, we take away any identifying information and give you a participant ID, like P7.
    * Knowing that, are you comfortable if I record my screen and audio as we talk today?
* One of the ways that we share findings with our partners across the VA is by showing short video clips of sessions with Veterans. In these video clips, we blur out any information that could possibly be used to identify you, like your onscreen image. Sharing these video clips can be a compelling way for our partners to understand better what veterans go through when using VA.gov and our digital products. These clips will not be shared outside of the VA. We don't know if we will, but we like to ask ahead of time. At the end of the interview, I'll also confirm that this is okay with you, so you will get a chance to veto this once you know what we've discussed.
    * Knowing this, would you be comfortable if we decided to use a clip of our session with you to help our partners understand Veteran's experiences?
    * If yes: Once I start recording, I am going to confirm that you are okay with me recording this session once more.

Start recording.



* I have started recording. I would like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record my screen and the audio as we talk today?
* Are you comfortable if we decide to use a recorded clip from our discussion today to share with other VA partners if we remove any information that can be used to identify you?


## Warm-up Questions (Optional) - 3 minutes

Before we look at the website, let’s start with a few warm-up questions.



1. Have you ever applied for the CHAMPVA program? (a cost-sharing program for spouses and children of Veterans with disabilities who don’t qualify for Tricare)
    1. Facilitator note: This should be a quick yes or no screener; in-depth conversation about their experience with the program should be avoided at this time.
2. Tell us a little about yourself.
3. What branch of service were you (or your sponsor) part of?
4. What types of places did you (they) travel to as part of their service?
5. Can you tell me a little bit about the setup you will be using during the test today?
    1. Facilitator note: This is specifically meant to identify what tech AT users will be using for the test so we can verify it matches our expectations.


## First Task: [Usability/Accessibility session] - 50 minutes



* Step 1: I will now send you a link to our prototype in the Zoom chat. When you click on it, the screen should open; feel free to adjust it so that you are comfortable and navigating, similar to how you would with most websites. If you have any questions, feel free to ask.
* Step 2: Please proceed through filling out the form as if you were attempting to apply for benefits. Feel free to fabricate responses that fit the fields if you feel uncomfortable inputting your personal information. As stated previously, however, we will be removing any of your identifying information, and nothing you do here will impact your actual benefits or services in any way. Please vocalize what you are thinking as you proceed. As we mentioned earlier, please ask if you have any questions. Please know that if you do ask questions, I may not answer them because the purpose of the study is to see how you naturally interact with the form and not to guide you through it. Since it’s just a prototype, not everything will look or act as you expect. \
 \
 Also, please be aware that none of your information will be shared if you use your own as you interact with the prototype. We would prefer that you make information up; however, if you have trouble doing this, please let us know, and we can provide you with some fabricated information to enter.
    * Facilitator note: If the participant struggles with fabricating information or prefers not to, please give them some placeholder information from below.
    * Facilitator note: Have the participant interact with the list-and-loop as if they had multiple applicants.
    * Facilitator note: Have the participant interact with the Medicare Card uploads. (Prompt them to behave as if they had both parts A & D or two different cards)
* Step 3 (after 50 minutes or after the form is completed): Thank you for going through the prototype with us. Before we move on, we’d like to ask: 
    * What would you expect to happen next upon submitting the form successfully?
    * If you could tell the designer of this prototype to change three things, what would you have them change? (before they shut down the prototype)
* Step 4: We are going to switch things up and ask you a few questions. If that is alright with you, please close the prototype.


### Things to watch for:



* Step 1:
    * Be prepared to guide the users through getting the prototype running step-by-step.
* Step 2:
    * Before the participant begins the applicant portion, ensure they know to interact with the “list-and-loop” as if they had multiple applicants to add to the form. In addition, probe how they might approach it if they were filling out the application for someone else.
    * When the participant reaches the Medicare question, stop them and have them walk through the upload process as if they were submitting their cards. Be sure that they express how they would gather the information and how they believe it would be uploaded and received by the form.
    * Probe more deeply on any comments/observations made regarding usability or content. (e.g., Could you explain more about that remark? | I saw you pause there while looking at X. Could you explain more about what you were thinking? | What would make this easier? | Did X work as you expected?) and stay mindful of contextual inquiry best practices.
    * As testing continues, be aware of additional tasking that may be needed (such as progressing down the living/deceased paths in the flow, what a participant would do if they had no address for the sponsor, how they might go about obtaining documentation in different circumstances) that may need to be directed if the demographic does not seem diverse enough.
* Step 3:
    * Be prepared to guide the participant through shutting down the prototype and reassure them they are not doing anything wrong.


## Post-Task Interview - 30 minutes



* What motivated you to complete the CHAMPVA application process, and what did you hope the outcome would be?
    * Facilitator note: This should lead to the conclusion that they did apply for CHAMPVA benefits in the past, when, and their general experience/feelings/feedback.
* What is most important to you when applying for benefits through a program like CHAMPVA?
    * Facilitator note: This should result in responses about trust/security in comparison to paper/VSO if they are relevant. This should also help inform the service design initiative (journey map, key metrics impact, service blueprint). Further probing may be needed if the response doesn’t correctly reflect these points.
* What was most memorable about your experience applying for CHAMPVA benefits?
    * Facilitator note: The response to this question should give a general impression of their experience, some pain points, and opportunities for improvement. Amend additional probing questions as necessary.
* Walk us through the steps you took from learning about the CHAMPVA program until the completion of the process and receipt of benefits to the best of your ability.
    * Facilitator note: This should further inform the user journey map and the other service design artifacts. If the response isn’t sufficient, additional probing may be required.
* Placeholder for SUS pending discussion
* Do you have any questions for me?


## Consent to use video clips



* Again, I want to confirm that you are comfortable if we share a video clip of this session with our VA partners. Just to remind you, we will remove all information that could be used to identify you before sharing. We will only share the videos with VA partners to improve VA.gov and other digital experiences.
    * If yes: Is there any part of our discussion you would NOT want shared in a video clip?


## Thank you, and Closing - 2 minutes

We appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us today. Your feedback is so helpful to us as we continue to work on the site and ensure it works for Veterans.

Thanks! Lastly, Perigean will send you a thank you note with a little blurb that you can pass along to other Veterans you may know to allow them to participate in future research studies.

Thank you so much again, and enjoy the rest of your day!


## Emergency Exit

We will follow and have practiced the standard guidance for an emergency exit strategy found below:

We recommend you plan a graceful exit strategy that you will feel comfortable using during a session. Your goal is to wrap up the session without further incident or escalation. It is important not to blame the participant since it could increase any distress or trauma they are experiencing. If you are exiting for a reason, it’s best not to share any personal details, as it may create additional stress for all. Examples of exit strategies that have worked include:

Out of questions: We have covered all the questions I have for you today. Thank you so much for your time and feedback.

Blame technology: I am so sorry, but I just learned that the [website/prototype/thing I wanted to test with you today] is unexpectedly not working. I apologize for the inconvenience and thank you for your time.

Backup Moderator: This is best practiced beforehand, but it can work if there is an emergency with the moderator. Appoint another team member on the call as the backup moderator. You can say, “For the next part of this session, [backup moderator name] will moderate.” They should be prepared to jump in if something happens to you or you are not comfortable to finish the session.


## Placeholder Information

This information will be provided to individuals who run into a scenario where they are having trouble coming up with something or do not want to make up their own answers. The facilitator will choose the appropriate type of information from the set and relay it to them if needed.


Names: Joe, Sam, Margot, Betty \
DOBs: 2/16/46 | 5/24/52 | 8/19/55 | 12/24/42 \
SSNs: 123-45-7890 | 654-13-0987 \
Addresses: 1 Poplar Lane, New York, NY 10001 | 2 Cedar Drive, New York, NY 10001 \
Relationships: Son, Step-son, Spouse, Daughter \
