# MyDocuments initial feature proposal
**VSA eBenefits Migration team | February 2022**

`Candy Clark, designer`

---

## Current Features
### Users
This document will consider VA.gov end-user functionality--specifically relating to Veterans, service members, caregivers and dependents. As the primary functionality is to allow users to view their personal documents that have been submitted by or on behalf of users, all users will need to be authenticated.

### eBenefits MyDocuments functionality
MyDocuments is a current feature of eBenefits that allows veterans, service members their beneficiaries to view documents that have been electronically uploaded by them or their representative in support of claims filed with VA.

[Considerations and eBenefits screenshots](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/tree/master/products/ebenefits/view-my-documents)

Documents are presented in a paginated table that displays date uploaded, type, and file name. The table can be filtered by type and date and sorted by name, type, or date.

Documents can be viewed and downloaded, but new documents cannot be uploaded.

### Adjacent features in development for VA.gov
There are three features performing similar functions for in production or development for VA.gov.

- [Download VA benefit letters](https://staging.va.gov/records/download-va-letters/) allows users to view and download PDFs that document their service history and benefits. These are documents generated by VA.
- The [Claim Status Tool](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/blob/master/products/ebenefits/view-my-documents/research-design/mydocs-feature-comparison.md#:~:text=(Check%20your%20VA%20claim%20or%20appeal%20status)) allows user to see status and details of their VA benefits claims and appeals, including a list of files submitted in support of each claim. These files are not viewable and downloadable. However, there is an upload tool that allows users to submit additional documents in support of their claims.
- Education inbox tool is a new feature that allows users to correspond directly with VA about their education benefits. The feature is intended to allow two-way communication as education benefits require reauthorization `check language for accuracy`

See [MyDocuments feature comparison/design discovery](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/blob/master/products/ebenefits/view-my-documents/research-design/mydocs-feature-comparison.md) for more detailed discovery of the Download VA benefit letters and Claim Status Tools.

<!--
### Use cases

#### As a user of MyDocuments:

#### As a user of the Claim Status Tool:

#### As a user of Download VA benefit letters:

#### As a user of the Education inbox tool
-->

---

## Recommendations

### Proposed Solution
The proposed solution is to build an integrated documents hub for viewing, downloading, and uploading all documents related to a user's benefits claims, claims, and service history using a progressive development plan prioritizing the most critical functionality and then extending to related functions.

#### Group 1: View and download uploaded documents
Currently, viewing and downloading uploaded documents is only available on eBenefits. Therefore, creating a way to view and download documents is the first proposed functionality to design and develop.

#### Group 2: Integrate view and download features with claim status view
Initial discovery shows that features between myDocuments and the Claim Status Tool are very complementary. The claim status tool already allows users to upload documents in support of their claim and to view which files are associated with which claim. The next proposed step is to allow users to view and download those files within the claim status view.

#### Group 3: Integrate view and download Benefit letters with claim status view
The current Download VA benefit letters tool allows users to view and download documents generated by VA related to their claims and service history. Allowing users to view and download these records in the context of their claims is the next proposed function. Users may also want to associate existing VA documentation to claims or add documents that have been uploaded for one claim to another claim (example: DD-214).

#### Group 4: Associate education benefits with claim status view
The Education Benefits team is working on an inbox tool that allows the user to correspond with VA to maintain education benefits. More discovery is needed around this topic before propsing specific functionality.

### Proposed use cases
A user of an integrated documents tool on VA.gov wants to:
- View and download documents that have been uploaded to VA by themselves or their representatives
- View and download documents that have been mailed or faxed to VA by themselves or their representatives
- Upload additional documents in support of claims
- Associate a document to more than one claim or appeal
- Understand which documents are related to which claims
- View and download service records held by VA
- View and download letters related to claims and appeals
- Understand which letters are related to which claim and appeal
- Understand which claims, letters, and documents are the most current

### Recommended research
- Conduct discovery interviews focusing on how users think about their documents and letters.
- Conduct discovery interviews with the Benefits team focusing on how users interact with and maintain their education benefits relative to other types of claims.

---

### Proposed feature flows

---

### Wireframing

---
