products/login.gov-adoption/communication-campaign/content/call-center-help-desk-support/Known Sign In Issues FAQ_Call Center.md, before:

Last modified 12/28/23
Blocked by pause in communication campaign

What if I have trouble uploading my ID to verify my identity?
-------------------------------------------------------------

If your ID was rejected, first identify why they were rejected. You may need to retry taking and submitting high-quality photos of your documents. Here are some suggestions: 

-   Use a high resolution camera like a smartphone or tablet camera. Your computer webcam may not take clear photos.

-   Use a solid, dark background.

-   Take your photos in a well-lit area with indirect light so that there is no glare on your ID.

-   Take your photos straight on and not at an angle, making sure to match the orientation of your ID.

-   Do not crop out the edges of your ID. 

-   Make sure there are no other objects in the photo

-   Check that ID barcodes are not damaged or dirty.

-   Try to hold your phone still while taking the photos. It may help to prop your arms on the table to steady yourself.

If you are still having trouble verifying your ID online, there are a couple of options. Login.gov will give you the option to [verify your identity in-person at a local US Post Office](https://www.login.gov/help/verify-your-identity/verify-your-identity-in-person/). ID.me has an option to verify over [video call](https://help.id.me/hc/en-us/articles/360052242853-Verifying-your-identity-on-a-video-call). 

What if I cannot verify my phone number on Login.gov?
-----------------------------------------------------

If you do not have a phone number in your name or have trouble verifying your phone number, you can use your address to verify by mail instead. You will get a letter in the mail with a verification code to finish verifying your identity.

Login.gov will send the letter to an address that they have verified and associated with you. If you need to change this address, you will need to start over and verify your identity again with the new address.

Letters are sent the next business day via USPS First-Class Mail. The verification code will expire 30 days after the date when you submit your request. You should receive your letter in 5 to 10 days. If you do not receive your letter or the verification code h'as expired, you will need to request a new one by following the steps: 

1.  Go to [https://secure.login.gov](https://secure.login.gov/).  

2.  Select "Send me another letter" when asked to enter your code.

##### What if I cannot verify my phone number on ID.me?

If you do not have a phone number in your name or have trouble verifying your phone number, you may have the option to finish verifying on a video call with a Video Chat Agent. To set up a video chat with an ID.me agent, go to <https://help.id.me/hc/en-us/articles/360052242853-Verifying-your-identity-on-a-video-call>

Can my ID be expired?
---------------------

Login.gov does not accept an expired ID. ID.me accepts state issued IDs that have expired within the last 12 months but you will need to show documentation of renewal, extension, or a temporary ID from the DMV.  

What if I don't have a valid state issued ID?
---------------------------------------------

If you do not have a valid driver's license or state ID card you cannot use Login.gov for identity verification. You will need to create an ID.me account instead and use your passport or verify via a video call.

I don't have a smartphone. How do I verify my identity through ID.me?
---------------------------------------------------------------------

You'll need either a landline or mobile phone, and a computer with an internet connection.

At this time, ID.me does not support:

-   Phones registered under a family member or spouse

-   Virtual phone services like Skype or Google Voice

-   International phone numbers

If you don't have a phone that can receive text messages, during the set-up process:

-   Choose "phone call" when asked how you'd like to receive your 6-digit code to set up your phone for 2-factor authentication.

-   Choose "email" when asked how you'd like to receive the link to download the ID.me Wallet app to get started using ID.me.

If you don't have a phone that can take photos, during the set-up process:

-   Choose the "verify by answering questions" option when asked how you'd like to verify your identity, or

-   Be sure you have a photo of either your driver's license or passport on your computer, or that you can scan one in, so you can upload it to verify your identity using one of these forms of ID.

How can I verify my identity if I live outside the U.S.?
--------------------------------------------------------

If your address is outside the U.S., you can use ID.me to verify your identity. You'll need to show your identity documents on a video call with an ID.me representative. To do this, follow these steps to create an account. After you create your account or sign in, you'll be redirected to the verification process. During the verification process, when prompted to choose your verification method or document, select "I don't live in the United States" or "I don't have any of the documents listed above". Next, select "Get started", then follow the prompts to verify your identity on a video call. You must enter your personal information, submit your documents, wait for them to be reviewed, then join a live video call to get verified.

Make sure to have your identity documents ready. If you don't have a U.S. Social Security number, you'll need to show a valid U.S. passport as one of your identity documents. If you do not have a passport, you will need to [apply for government-issued photo identification](https://help.id.me/hc/en-us/articles/12252554988055).

What if I'm having trouble answering the ID.me security questions?
------------------------------------------------------------------

Try answering the personal security questions again, following these tips:

-   Pull a copy of your credit report from Experian, a credit reporting company, and use it to double-check that the answers you're providing to ID.me during the proofing process match the information in your report.

-   If you think your credit report has the wrong information, you'll need to file a dispute with Experian.

-   If you've recently moved, changed names, or have a different permanent address, try using your previous information.

-   Make sure you enter a phone number that's registered in your name.

If you answered the security questions, but are still not verified, you can try using your driver's license or passport to verify your identity. Be sure to follow the image guidelines provided when you upload a copy of your driver's license or passport.

What if I lose my means of multi-factor authentication for my Login.gov account?
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you are locked out of your Login.gov account and do not have access to or have lost your multifactor authentication method and do not have a backup, you will need to delete your current Login.gov account and create a new one. 

As a security measure, Login.gov requires that you follow the steps listed below and a 24 hour waiting period if you have lost access to your authentication methods and need to delete your account.

-   1\. Go to your government application sign in page or to <https://secure.login.gov/>

-   2\. Sign in with your email and password

-   3\. On the authentication page, click on "Choose another security option"

-   4\. Scroll to the bottom and click on the "deleting your account" link

-   5\. Read through all the information carefully to make sure deleting your account is your only option

-   6\. Click on "Yes, continue deletion"

-   7\. You will receive two emails.

-   The first email confirms Login.gov received your request. Your account is not yet deleted. Additional action is required.

-   The second email is sent to you 24 hours later. Follow the directions in that email to complete the deletion process.

Once you've deleted your account, you can then follow the directions to create an account on Login.gov and use the same email address that you'd used previously.

What if I get an error message when I try to sign in to VA.gov?
---------------------------------------------------------------

If you get the message "We're sorry. Something went wrong on our end," take these steps: 

-   Clear your internet browser's cookies and cache. Depending on your browser, you'll find this information referred to as "Browsing Data," "Browsing History," or "Website Data."

-   Make sure your cookies are enabled in your browser settings. Depending on the browser you're using, you'll usually find this information in the "Tools," "Settings," or "Preferences" menu.

-   If you're using Internet Explorer or Microsoft Edge, and clearing your cookies and cache doesn't fix the problem, try using Google Chrome or Mozilla Firefox instead.

-   If you're using Chrome or Firefox and it isn't working, get the latest updates for your browser.

Commit message:

Update Known Sign In Issues FAQ_Call Center.md

products/login.gov-adoption/communication-campaign/content/call-center-help-desk-support/Known Sign In Issues FAQ_Call Center.md, after:

Last modified 12/28/23
Blocked by pause in communication campaign

[Mural](https://app.mural.co/t/departmentofveteransaffairs9999/m/departmentofveteransaffairs9999/1716210740837/0057077bc375fa8907ff8349d63a21fa9aff1b9a?sender=u1b0df595924572baa8a94764) used to identify relevant information for known sign-in issues

What if I have trouble uploading my ID to verify my identity?
-------------------------------------------------------------

If your ID was rejected, first identify why they were rejected. You may need to retry taking and submitting high-quality photos of your documents. Here are some suggestions: 

-   Use a high resolution camera like a smartphone or tablet camera. Your computer webcam may not take clear photos.

-   Use a solid, dark background.

-   Take your photos in a well-lit area with indirect light so that there is no glare on your ID.

-   Take your photos straight on and not at an angle, making sure to match the orientation of your ID.

-   Do not crop out the edges of your ID. 

-   Make sure there are no other objects in the photo

-   Check that ID barcodes are not damaged or dirty.

-   Try to hold your phone still while taking the photos. It may help to prop your arms on the table to steady yourself.

If you are still having trouble verifying your ID online, there are a couple of options. Login.gov will give you the option to [verify your identity in-person at a local US Post Office](https://www.login.gov/help/verify-your-identity/verify-your-identity-in-person/). ID.me has an option to verify over [video call](https://help.id.me/hc/en-us/articles/360052242853-Verifying-your-identity-on-a-video-call). 

What if I cannot verify my phone number on Login.gov?
-----------------------------------------------------

If you do not have a phone number in your name or have trouble verifying your phone number, you can use your address to verify by mail instead. You will get a letter in the mail with a verification code to finish verifying your identity.

Login.gov will send the letter to an address that they have verified and associated with you. If you need to change this address, you will need to start over and verify your identity again with the new address.

Letters are sent the next business day via USPS First-Class Mail. The verification code will expire 30 days after the date when you submit your request. You should receive your letter in 5 to 10 days. If you do not receive your letter or the verification code h'as expired, you will need to request a new one by following the steps: 

1.  Go to [https://secure.login.gov](https://secure.login.gov/).  

2.  Select "Send me another letter" when asked to enter your code.

##### What if I cannot verify my phone number on ID.me?

If you do not have a phone number in your name or have trouble verifying your phone number, you may have the option to finish verifying on a video call with a Video Chat Agent. To set up a video chat with an ID.me agent, go to <https://help.id.me/hc/en-us/articles/360052242853-Verifying-your-identity-on-a-video-call>

Can my ID be expired?
---------------------

Login.gov does not accept an expired ID. ID.me accepts state issued IDs that have expired within the last 12 months but you will need to show documentation of renewal, extension, or a temporary ID from the DMV.  

What if I don't have a valid state issued ID?
---------------------------------------------

If you do not have a valid driver's license or state ID card you cannot use Login.gov for identity verification. You will need to create an ID.me account instead and use your passport or verify via a video call.

I don't have a smartphone. How do I verify my identity through ID.me?
---------------------------------------------------------------------

You'll need either a landline or mobile phone, and a computer with an internet connection.

At this time, ID.me does not support:

-   Phones registered under a family member or spouse

-   Virtual phone services like Skype or Google Voice

-   International phone numbers

If you don't have a phone that can receive text messages, during the set-up process:

-   Choose "phone call" when asked how you'd like to receive your 6-digit code to set up your phone for 2-factor authentication.

-   Choose "email" when asked how you'd like to receive the link to download the ID.me Wallet app to get started using ID.me.

If you don't have a phone that can take photos, during the set-up process:

-   Choose the "verify by answering questions" option when asked how you'd like to verify your identity, or

-   Be sure you have a photo of either your driver's license or passport on your computer, or that you can scan one in, so you can upload it to verify your identity using one of these forms of ID.

How can I verify my identity if I live outside the U.S.?
--------------------------------------------------------

If your address is outside the U.S., you can use ID.me to verify your identity. You'll need to show your identity documents on a video call with an ID.me representative. To do this, follow these steps to create an account. After you create your account or sign in, you'll be redirected to the verification process. During the verification process, when prompted to choose your verification method or document, select "I don't live in the United States" or "I don't have any of the documents listed above". Next, select "Get started", then follow the prompts to verify your identity on a video call. You must enter your personal information, submit your documents, wait for them to be reviewed, then join a live video call to get verified.

Make sure to have your identity documents ready. If you don't have a U.S. Social Security number, you'll need to show a valid U.S. passport as one of your identity documents. If you do not have a passport, you will need to [apply for government-issued photo identification](https://help.id.me/hc/en-us/articles/12252554988055).

What if I'm having trouble answering the ID.me security questions?
------------------------------------------------------------------

Try answering the personal security questions again, following these tips:

-   Pull a copy of your credit report from Experian, a credit reporting company, and use it to double-check that the answers you're providing to ID.me during the proofing process match the information in your report.

-   If you think your credit report has the wrong information, you'll need to file a dispute with Experian.

-   If you've recently moved, changed names, or have a different permanent address, try using your previous information.

-   Make sure you enter a phone number that's registered in your name.

If you answered the security questions, but are still not verified, you can try using your driver's license or passport to verify your identity. Be sure to follow the image guidelines provided when you upload a copy of your driver's license or passport.

What if I lose my means of multi-factor authentication for my Login.gov account?
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you are locked out of your Login.gov account and do not have access to or have lost your multifactor authentication method and do not have a backup, you will need to delete your current Login.gov account and create a new one. 

As a security measure, Login.gov requires that you follow the steps listed below and a 24 hour waiting period if you have lost access to your authentication methods and need to delete your account.

-   1\. Go to your government application sign in page or to <https://secure.login.gov/>

-   2\. Sign in with your email and password

-   3\. On the authentication page, click on "Choose another security option"

-   4\. Scroll to the bottom and click on the "deleting your account" link

-   5\. Read through all the information carefully to make sure deleting your account is your only option

-   6\. Click on "Yes, continue deletion"

-   7\. You will receive two emails.

-   The first email confirms Login.gov received your request. Your account is not yet deleted. Additional action is required.

-   The second email is sent to you 24 hours later. Follow the directions in that email to complete the deletion process.

Once you've deleted your account, you can then follow the directions to create an account on Login.gov and use the same email address that you'd used previously.

What if I get an error message when I try to sign in to VA.gov?
---------------------------------------------------------------

If you get the message "We're sorry. Something went wrong on our end," take these steps: 

-   Clear your internet browser's cookies and cache. Depending on your browser, you'll find this information referred to as "Browsing Data," "Browsing History," or "Website Data."

-   Make sure your cookies are enabled in your browser settings. Depending on the browser you're using, you'll usually find this information in the "Tools," "Settings," or "Preferences" menu.

-   If you're using Internet Explorer or Microsoft Edge, and clearing your cookies and cache doesn't fix the problem, try using Google Chrome or Mozilla Firefox instead.

-   If you're using Chrome or Firefox and it isn't working, get the latest updates for your browser.
