# P1 Notes

Sep 25, 2019, 10:00am

*Add p1 notes here. Please remove any PII.*

### Have you ever filed a disability claim with the Department of Veteran Affairs?
Um. My wife would be better to ask. I filed one way back. About 15 years ago. I recently filed one that I was very pleased with. The doctor was outstanding. The way things moved, it was very smooth compared to our first one.

### How did you file it (online, mail, fax, VSO)?

- The first one I don’t know.

- The second one, you go to MHV or eBenefits and we requested a compensation exam because I was getting worse.

### How did you feel about the process?

- Surprisingly, it was very simple. When I was in TX I had to be represented by the Parayzed Vets Association. It was very discouraged for you to file it by yourself. You had to get someone to represent you.

### Have you ever filed an appeal with the Department of Veteran Affairs?

- No. The first one. I just let it go. They had it at 100% and then moved it to 90%. And then they gave me 100% unemployablity. It wasn’t the truth about it and I just let it be.

- On this one, I don’t need to do an appeal unless you know something I don’t know.

### First Task: Show me where you would expect to file an appeal (on a disability claim decision)?

- Opens Internet Explorer.

- Searches for VA.gov, clicks on search result.

- Maximizes screen.

P1: Okay, so you want me to x out of it?
My question is, does this have anything to do with me or is this a broad question for everybody.

*Reads…*

P1: I would think it would be under Disability. File claim or appeal status. But it doesn’t say anything about filing an appeal.

I’m just an old *PII* guy, but that’s where I would go.

Kevin: How would you file an appeal.

I’ll be honest with you, it really 50/50 because file a claim for pension is the initial thing to do. It doesn’t tell me. Just guessing, I’d click on Check your claim or appeal status. It’s not spelling it out for me. 

Kevin: What if we click on How to file a claim

*Reads page…scrolls…*

P1: Excuse my language. You know I’m a Vet. Dude. This is telling me jackend sh** about filing an appeal. That’s just how Vets talk. If you’re offended, I apologize. This is giving me know reference about how to file an appeal. 

*Reads…*

P1: You know what happens after I file my disability claims, that would be a good thing, appeals maybe.

There’s nothing out there that remotely even… forget screaming at you. Nothing is even hinting at you as an option. It’s almost as if it doesn’t exist.

Kevin: Scroll down a bit…You mentioned after you file your claim.

P1: What happens after I send my claim...reads…

Okay. What happens if your claim is denied? It has nothing. Maybe there should be “after you file your claim, what are your options?”

*Kevin shares a link to the prototype. Trouble getting P1 to see the chat.*

*Kevin shares his screen.*

P1: Beautiful!

Kevin: This is the Claim Status Tool on VA.gov. Can you take a few moments to look at the screen and tell me what you see.
Oh, I like that. Additional services. That’s very good. 

The fact that you can actually get help to file claims or appeals. That’s very important. My only deal. My 2 cents pointing this out. It’s under something. Appeals are a big thing. We know that. If you really want people to start people to do them, you have to bite the bullet and say Claim and Appeals. In can’t be under a past subject. Even additional services is great, but alot of these guys have lost memories. I’m blind in one eye and have trouble in the other. It’s hard for me to read regular print. The bold, the underline. That’s what I look at for subjects.

Kevin: How do you think you’d see the most recent detail of the dependency claim.

P1: I like it. My dad had to go through that. View status. Beautiful. Excuse me for being ignorant, but can you do claims for dependency?

This is the first time I’ve seen claims for dependency.

I would expect for lack of a better term, the military is all about the appendix, annex this, reference that. For something like this, it gives me a View status. If I want more information. It hints to it. I get it. I guess I’d like to see more than a view status. I would also like to see information on that subject right underneath it.

Kevin: What you might expect to see if you clicked the View Status button?

P1: What’s the expected timeline, point of contact, when am I gonna be contacted or if they’re expecting me to contact them. 

*Kevin opens View Status page.*

P1: That’s what I’m getting at … reads page.

I’m just saying, you know, is there away for me to contact and see if this is the best number you can reach. Maybe I’ve switched doctors or maybe my wife has power of attorney. A lot of my buddies have done claims and they’re counting down the days. If gets more than the estimated time, they’re thinking they’re automatically gonna be denied. 

It’s cut and dry. Don’t get me wrong. I’m not stepping backward. I’ve been in Washington DC and worked on projects that I can’t name. I’m not here to attack what you’re doing. And to give the best advice from my perspective and hope it works out. I do have a rusty voice, I apologize. I’m trying to give feedback the best that I can. The people that I know, the constant Vets I know, because I’m very big on talking with the Vets community.

*Kevin prompts scenario for adding a file.*

P1: I would call the 800 number under Need Help and pray to God it’s more than they can help me. Hoping that they would have something to say if you’re adding to a claim and press a number. Hopefully, I’d have a claim file to reference. It would be more beneficial … on number 3, it’s telling me. My dad’s German and saying you will go on vacation and you will have fun. 

*Kevin navigates to File tab.*

P1: Man, I feel like a dumbass now. Additional evidence. That’s beautiful.

I would View the Details. It gives me hope that it says Upload it here.

Kevin: Is this what you would expect?

P1: Absolutely.

*Kevin clicks through to adding a file screen.*

Kevin: Is that clear that you’ve added a file?

P1: Absolutely. I like that you put the accepted file type. We don’t like to be ordered around, but things put in so that we know the guidelines. 

Kevin: What would you do next?

P1: Well, obviously, I’d go and click the checkbox. That’s a disclosure and also the understanding.

Kevin: Is that clear (checkbox) verbage?

P1: It could not be any clearer, brother!

*Kevin clicks button, prototype advances*

Kevin: Is this page what you’d expect?

P1: Absolutely. If it’s not clear you think the VA is giving you the runaround. Perception is reality and if you make it more clear, I think the way the VA is viewed by Veterans and civilians will be swayed. That’s out it starts. 

Kevin wraps up.

## Riley's Notes

### Warm-up Questions 

**Tell me a little about yourself. (Where do you live? Which branch of service? What do you do for work?)** <br>
I live in (City, State). It’s roughly 15 min from (Location). Originally from (Location). Wife’s from here, so obviously she won *laughs* so that’s why we went back up here after my medical retirement. My branch of service was Marine Corps. I was a (Position) and a (Position) and all the (Position) … I was (Position) but part of a very small unit in the Marine Corps.(Description of job duties and injuries) 

**Have you ever filed a disability claim with the Department of Veteran Affairs?**<br>
My wife would be better to ask. I filed one way back about I would think 15 years ago. I filed one again that I was very pleased with, the doctor was outstanding, and the way things moved was very smooth compared to my first one. 

**How did you file it (online, mail, fax, VSO)?**<br>
The first one I don’t know. The second one was I think you go to like myhealthyvet.com another is  eBenefits or something. We requested a compensation exam because I was getting worse. That’s how we filed it. 

**How did you feel about the process?** <br>
It was surprisingly very simple (process). When I was in (State), I had to be represented by the PVA (Paralyzed Vets Association) because when you filed where I was from it was very discouraged that you would file it by yourself. You had to get somebody to represent you. 

**Have you ever filed an appeal with the Department of Veteran Affairs**<br>
No, the first one I let it go. They had me at (Percentage) and then they busted me down to (Percentage), then they said they’ll give (Percentage) unemployability. The way they explained was that I wasn’t going to lose anything, I just left things be. On this (second) one, I don’t feel the need to do appeals unless you know something I don’t know. 

### First Task: Show me where you would expect to file an appeal (on a disability claim decision)?
*Start on the home page of VA.gov.

*Things to watch for:*<br>
**What path does the participant take to file an appeal?**<br>
I would think it would be under “Disability”. File a claim for compensation, file claim or appeal status, check your claim. It doesn’t say anything about filing an appeal. And again, I’m just an old retired (medical injury) guy, but that’s what I would think. 

Really 50/50. “File a claim for compensation” is the initial thing to do. I would go to “Check your claim or status” and hope they would tell me what to do. It’s not spelling it out for me. 

*Moderator directs them to click on “File a claim for compensation”*

Maybe “additional forms”, if I was to guess (appeals process). 

*Participant is scrolling through the page and reading headers out loud.*

Excuse my language, dude this is telling jack sh-t about filing. I’m not mad, if you’re offended I apologize. This is giving me literally no reference to filing an appeal. I’m reading through it really fast, but *reading headers out loud* “What happens after I file my disability claim” may be where I would see appeals. In top left after Additional forms or After you file your claim, maybe Appeals process. There’s nothing out there, nothing screams at you, or hints at you, about the appeals process. There’s no option to even think about it. Almost as if it doesn’t exist. 

To me, personally, “what happens after I file my disability claim” *reading the information*, ya know, what happens after your claim is denied? “More information about filing disability claims” maybe there should be, “After you file a claim, what are your options?” 

**Does the participant realize that they cannot file an appeal on VA.gov?**<br>
Participant realized it’s not under Disability, but didn’t necessarily realize that they cannot file an appeal on VA.gov

**What painpoints do they encounter?**<br>
Not sure where to go from the homepage. 

Participant experienced difficulty accessing the second activity

### Second Task: Now I'm going to share a link to the prototype in the chat. Can you click on it?
(https://vsateams.invisionapp.com/share/S2U2NQZZ76A#/385489667_Intro-Page-2)
#### 1st screen: Claim Status Tool

**Can you take a few moments to look at this screen and tell me about what you think you can do on this page?**<br>
*Moderator is controlling screen*<br>
“Additional services” part is good. There’s a, Need help, but how do you start one? The fact that you can actually get help when you need to, that’s very important. My only deal, my two cents pointing this out is again it’s something.. appeals are a big thing, we know that, if you really want people to start being able to do them then you just gotta bite the bullet and say “Claim and Appeals”. Even Additional Services, it’s great, but a lot of these guys who have lost memories and lost for words, I’m blind in one eye and have trouble in another, it’s very hard for me to read normal print. The bold, the underline, that’s what I’m gonna look at as subjects. 

**How would you view the details of your most recent, open dependency claim?**<br>
I like it. View status, that’s beautiful. Excuse me for being perhaps ignorant, but when you do your claims is there claims for dependency as well? ("Yes, there’s claims for compensation and claims for dependency. Two diff kinds." - M) 

This is the first time I’ve seen a place for dependency. I would expect to see, like, the military is all about appendix this and this, annex this and this, reference this reference that. For something like this, it gives me a view status. But if I wanted more information about filing claims it hints to it, I get it, I guess Im just… I’d like to see more than View Status. If you’re talking about a claim for dependency and claim for compensation, I’d like to see information on or references to that subject right underneath it. 

**"At least more related content?" -M**<br>
Absolutely

*Clicks View Status button.*

I would expect to see where they’re at in the claim. What’s holding them up. Estimated timeline. What other information do I have to give? Who’s my POC? When am I going to be contacted, or if they expect me to contact them. 

#### 2nd screen: Open Claim Details
**Take a few moments to look at this screen.
Is there anything that you think you need to do regarding your claim?**<br>
Number 3, evidence gathering, review, and decision. Need help, yeah. I’m just saying is there a way for me to contact saying this is the best number you can reach? Maybe I’ve switched doctors. Maybe my wife has POA so if you can’t reach me, reach her. I know it’s redundant cuz it should have been done already. I’ll be honest, a lot of my buddies have submitted claims and they count down the days. It’s stomach wrenching, they’re always checking where they’re at. If it gets to more than the estimated time they think they’re going to automatically be denied. 

**"There could be other things to help you in Evidence Gathering, Review, and Decision?" - M**<br>
It’s cut and dry, don’t get me wrong. I’ve been to (Location) to help projects when I was upper in ranks and my biggest thing was I’m not here to attack what you’re doing, I’m here to help and to give the best advice from my perspective so that it works out. I do have a rusty voice, I apologize for that, but I’m not here to attack what you have put a lot of time and effort into doing. I’m trying to give feedback as much as I can so that the people I know, the constant Vets I talk with, I can only give my perspective and the ones around me. 

**"We appreciate and respect that. This is the kind of stuff we’re looking for" -M**

**"Let’s say you want to add a file if you need to provide more information. How would you do that?" - M**<br>
I would call the 1-800 number under Need Help. I would hope they would have something to say about adding to number 3, wait for service representative. Hopefully I’d have a claim file to reference that. I should have a claim file. It seems like it’s telling me, “you will go on vacation and you will have fun”. It’s telling me what to do instead of, “if something comes up, we’ll let you know”

**What do you think you'll see on the Files tab?** <br>

*Moderator clicks on files tab button*

#### 3rd screen: Open Claim Details > File tab

**What would you do here?** <br>
I feel like a dumbass now, that’s beautiful. Additional Evidence, that’s beautiful. 

I would View Details and hope it would have somewhere to Upload Here. 

**"Is this what you’d expect to see if you clicked View details?" - M**<br>
Absolutely

**"Is there anything that is unclear on this screen?" - M**<br>
Nope, clear 

**Go ahead and click on the 'view details' button.** 

#### 4th screen: Open Claim Details > File Tab > Add File

**Is this what you'd expect to see?** <br>
Absolutely. I like that you put Accepted file types. We don’t like to be “ordered around” anymore, but things are put in so we know the guidelines. 


**Click on the 'add file' button. For the purposes of this session, let's assume you've uploaded the document you see here and have chosen the correct file details (in this case, Military Personnel Record). What might you do next?** <br>
I’d click the button “I understand…” That’s a disclosure and the understanding. Then I’d submit files for review.

**Is it clear what you are confirming by clicking the checkbox?** <br>
It could not be any clearer, brother. 

**Click 'submit files for review'.**

#### 5th screen: Open Claim Details > File Tab - Status Detail (submission state)

**"Is this what you'd expect to see opon submission?" - M**<br>
Absolutely, this is exactly what I would expect to see. No guessing, no having to read anything. When you get sidetracked and having to go looking in a labyrinth or a treasure hunt. “I think this maybe have to do with the appeals, this and that” when you get the runaround you think the VA is doing anything they can to not give benefits. Some places that’s true. VA as a whole, it’s not. Perception is reality. When you make it more clear, then I think the perception of how the VA is ruled both by Vets and civilians that are patriotic will be a huge sway of opinion. Influence, man. That’s how it starts. Something as simple as this.



