# Session 2, Sept 25, 2pm

# Intro - 5 minutes
Thanks for joining us today! My name is Kevin and I also have some colleagues on the line observing and taking notes. Today we're going to talk about the appeals process on VA.gov.

• Yeah, that sounds good. Let’s talk!

*Before we start, a few things I want to mention:*
	• *This entire session should take about 45 minutes.* I want to be sure not to keep you much longer, so I may occasionally prompt you with the next question or topic.

	• *In this session, we want to hear your honest opinions.* We are not testing your ability. In reality, we're testing ourselves. We just want to improve these tools to better meet Veteran's needs. I will not be offended by any opinions you express, and I welcome your feedback.
	• Alright.

	• *During part of our session today, you'll be interacting with prototypes and a demo tool.* The prototype may not function exactly the way you expect. Some areas of the prototype will be clickable, and some will not. Since it's a demo, none of your actions will affect your actual VA information or benefits.

	• *If for any reason and at any time you want to stop the session, please let me know.*

	• *Are you comfortable if I record my screen and audio as we talk today?* We use the recordings to confirm that we have captured your opinions accurately. The recordings are destroyed after we complete analysis, and none of your comments will be attributed to you directly.
	• Uh, yeah. That’s fine.

		• If yes: *Once I start recording, I am going to confirm that you are ok with me recording this session once more.*

/Start recording./

*I have started recording. I'd like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record my screen and the audio as we talk today?*
Yes.

# Warm-up Questions (Optional) - (5-10 minutes)
Before we look at the VA website, let’s start with a few warm-up questions.

Tell me a little about yourself. (Where do you live? Which branch of service? What do you do for work?)
	• Okay, I’m an Army National Guard veteran. I live in the suburbs of Chicago, IL.

Have you ever filed a disability claim with the Department of Veteran Affairs?
	• Yes, I have.

How did you file it (online, mail, fax, VSO)?
	• Uh, I filed through a VSO and I’ve actually done one over the phone with the VA.

How did you feel about the process?
	• Overall it was fairly easy but you have different people with different levels of knowledge and expertise. Because I’ve actually filed several claims after being denied.

Have you ever filed an appeal with the Department of Veteran Affairs
	• Um my most recent claim I actually filed an appeal, the other claims I’ve filed reconsideration.

How did you go about filing it?
	• Since it’s still in the process of being worked on, I feel kind of in the middle about it. It’s still moving along. Being able to see where it is in the appeals docket is interesting. 

How did you feel about the process?
	• I’m still kind of new to it. It seems fairly easy.

# Setup Task: Share your screen with Zoom - (5 minutes)
Please minimize or close any windows that you don't want to share with us.
Navigate to va.gov in your computer's browser.
Click the "Share" on Zoom.
Okay, give me a second. I’ll close my email. Okay, I’m at VA.gov. Alright, can you see it?

## First Task: Show me where you would expect to file an appeal (on a disability claim decision)?
Start on the home page of VA.gov.

• I’d be looking here, somewhere in the Disability section
• Where do you think you would go to file an appeal in that area?
• I would go to “file a claim.” 
• Is the information clear and helpful?
• Yeah, the information is clear. It’s simple, not bogged down with too much stuff.
• /missed question and answer/
• Since I didn’t find what I wanted there, I would go to “check your claim or appeal status”
• Is the information for filing an appeal clear and are you finding info about it?
• Uh…. [long pause] Nothing about filing an appeal, but I suppose I’d have to log in to file an appeal because I suppose you have already filed a claim, so you’d have to find that claim to file an appeal.

## Things to watch for:
What path does the participant take to file an appeal?
Does the participant realize that they cannot file an appeal on VA.gov?
What keywords and phrases does the participant look for?
What painpoints do they encounter?
What works well?

# Second Task: Now I'm going to share a link to the prototype in the chat. Can you click on it?
(https://vsateams.invisionapp.com/share/S2U2NQZZ76A#/385489667_Intro-Page-2)

## 1st screen: Claim Status Tool
/Can you take a few moments to look at this screen and tell me about what you think you can do on this page?/
• “Okay. [pauses to scroll page]  Apparently here you can check open claims and historical claims.  Check any claim statuses both open and closed”

/How would you view the details of your most recent, open dependency claim?/
• “I see they got a claim for dependency with the green status. I would click View Status. Yes, it is a clear label.” [Clicks View Status button.]

## 2nd screen: Open Claim Details
Take a few moments to look at this screen. 
• Uh, me personally I spend a lot of time clicking on details to see what’s there. I guess it’s already expanded. I would click just to see what’s here and click on all the tabs, that’s personally what I would do. Just click to see what’s there. 

/Is there anything that you think you need to do regarding your claim?/
• I would click on Files

/What do you think you'll see on the Files tab?/
• I would click on Files. 

/Go ahead and click on it./

## 3rd screen: Open Claim Details > File tab

/What would you do here?/
• Click on View Details.

/Is there anything that is unclear on this screen?/
• “Uh yes it is. I was just in my account earlier today.

/Let's say you had more files to submit for this claim. What would you do next?/
“Go ahead and click on the 'view details' button.”

## 4th screen: Open Claim Details > File Tab > Add File
Is this what you'd expect to see?
Is it clear what actions you are able to take on this page?
Click on the 'add file' button. For the purposes of this session, let's assume you've uploaded the document you see here and have chosen the correct file details (in this case, Military Personnel Record). What might you do next?
• “Click on the box, make sure that I understand the understanding and then click on the box Submit for Review”

/Is it clear what you are confirming by clicking the checkbox?/
• “Yes, it is.”

Click 'submit files for review'.

## 5th screen: Open Claim Details > File Tab - Status Detail (submission state)
/Is this what you'd expect to see upon submission?/
• “Uh yes, it is.”

/Is there any particularly helpful pieces of information here?/
• “Just knowing what files I have uploaded, that’s helpful. Knowing what files I’ve uploaded have been accepted into the system. “

# Post-Task Interview
/Do you have any other feedback to share with us today?/
• “I’m not sure if it relates directly to you all. But you know how we have benefits and Va.gov, are they going to have one site. Because you log into benefits and then get bounced to Va.gov and you have to log in there too.”
• “It would be much easier to just have one site to log into.”

/What kind of documents do you think you can upload to the add documents screens?/
• “I would think you can upload anything there as long as it is pertinent to your claim.”

# Thank-You and Closing
Well we really appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us today. Your feedback is helpful to us as we continue to work on the site and make sure it really works for Veterans.

For your participation, you'll receive a check from Perigean, the company that recruited for this study, within two weeks. If you don't receive it, please contact _____.

Thanks! Lastly, do you know any other Veterans, caregivers, or service members who might be willing to participate in a future user research sesson? 
• “I am going to a minority veteran summit Saturday and Sunday, so I can for sure share the information with folks there.”

If Yes: Thank you! I'll have our team send you an email with a little blurb that you can pass along.

Great, well thank you so much again, and enjoy the rest of your day!
