# Session 4, Sept 26, 1pm

## Carolyn's Notes

# Intro - 5 minutes
Thanks for joining us today! My name is Kevin and I also have some colleagues on the line observing and taking notes. Today we're going to talk about the appeals process on VA.gov.

• Okay.

*Before we start, a few things I want to mention:*
	• *This entire session should take about 45 minutes.* I want to be sure not to keep you much longer, so I may occasionally prompt you with the next question or topic.

	• *In this session, we want to hear your honest opinions.* We are not testing your ability. In reality, we're testing ourselves. We just want to improve these tools to better meet Veteran's needs. I will not be offended by any opinions you express, and I welcome your feedback.

	• *During part of our session today, you'll be interacting with prototypes and a demo tool.* The prototype may not function exactly the way you expect. Some areas of the prototype will be clickable, and some will not. Since it's a demo, none of your actions will affect your actual VA information or benefits.

	• *If for any reason and at any time you want to stop the session, please let me know.*

	• *Are you comfortable if I record my screen and audio as we talk today?* We use the recordings to confirm that we have captured your opinions accurately. The recordings are destroyed after we complete analysis, and none of your comments will be attributed to you directly.
	• Yeah, that’s fine

		• If yes: *Once I start recording, I am going to confirm that you are ok with me recording this session once more.*

/Start recording./

*I have started recording. I'd like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record my screen and the audio as we talk today?*
Yes, I am

# Warm-up Questions (Optional) - (5-10 minutes)
Before we look at the VA website, let’s start with a few warm-up questions.

Tell me a little about yourself. (Where do you live? Which branch of service? What do you do for work?)
	• [Already mentioned lives in Alaska] Air Force. I am a substance abuse counselor. 

Have you ever filed a disability claim with the Department of Veteran Affairs?
	• Yes, I have

How did you file it (online, mail, fax, VSO)?
	• It was with the VSO

How did you feel about the process?
	• Um, being retired medical, it made a whole more sense to me than most people, it was fairly easy. But that’s because I understand the process.

Have you ever filed an appeal with the Department of Veteran Affairs
	• No,  I have not

How did you go about filing it?
	•  

How did you feel about the process?
	• 

# Setup Task: Share your screen with Zoom - (5 minutes)
Please minimize or close any windows that you don't want to share with us.
Navigate to va.gov in your computer's browser.
Click the "Share" on Zoom.


## First Task: Show me where you would expect to file an appeal (on a disability claim decision)?
Start on the home page of VA.gov.

• Um I would assume right here where it says check your claim or appeal status. I would assume there would be a button that pops up for submitting a claim and one would be for appeal.
• Actually I think it would be under file a claim for compensation. [clicks on it]
• The only thing I would say  is that it says how to file a claim, but it doesn’t say anything about applying for an appeal. I think it walks you through filing for a disability claim very well, but it doesn’t speak to an appeal at all.
• I think under File a Claim, if you could have a portion that says File an Appeal broken down. The same information about what you need, and then a button that takes you to it.
• I mean it talks you think filing the initial claim, but I don’t see anything in reference to an appeal. [scrolls, pauses to read] I don’t see anything in reference to an appeal.
• Oh, I hear a lot of complaints about the process. That hasn’t been my experience.  My experience has been very smooth, but I hear a lot of complaints.

## Things to watch for:
What path does the participant take to file an appeal?
Does the participant realize that they cannot file an appeal on VA.gov?
What keywords and phrases does the participant look for?
What painpoints do they encounter?
What works well?

# Second Task: Now I'm going to share a link to the prototype in the chat. Can you click on it?
(https://vsateams.invisionapp.com/share/S2U2NQZZ76A#/385489667_Intro-Page-2)

## 1st screen: Claim Status Tool
/Can you take a few moments to look at this screen and tell me about what you think you can do on this page?/
• So this basically you can check what stage your claim is. So this one has been closed, meaning they reviewed it all made a decision and this one is making a decision, and these are all closed—old claims that a decision has been made
• This portion is very easy to see and understand

/How would you view the details of your most recent, open dependency claim?/
• I would click View Status. They’ve received it, they’ve done an initial review, and then they are processing it and it would pop up here. I think this is sufficient. The only thing I would say is that File, to be able to add files here. I think some things you have to do it on ebenefits, so being able to do it in one website instead of going back and forth between the two. And details, sometimes it doesn’t give you any reference to what those details mean.
• I have no idea why this would be on a dependency claim. It looks like it’s listing all files that are attached to all open claims rather than ones related to this open claim. Being able to open it would be beneficial too. Sometimes things get uploaded incorrectly and increases everyone’s frustration.

## 2nd screen: Open Claim Details
Take a few moments to look at this screen. 
• 

/Is there anything that you think you need to do regarding your claim?/
• 

/What do you think you'll see on the Files tab?/
• I would expect under files to see marriage certificate or a list of the files you need for a disability claim

/Go ahead and click on it./

## 3rd screen: Open Claim Details > File tab

/What would you do here?/
• 

/What is most helpful about this page?/
• It says I don’t need to do anything and it has the current paperwork that I was told to submit

/Let's say you had more files to submit for this claim. What would you do next?/
If I wanted to see more? I think you need to go to ebenefits to upload a file. I haven’t actually needed to submit anything, so that’s new to me. But, oh right there. It gives you the warning, don’t just submit things to submit things. I think it’s clear. Oh, there’s the stand Add File.  You can add files, I can fax it if I need to or upload here. 

## 4th screen: Open Claim Details > File Tab > Add File
Is this what you'd expect to see?
Is it clear what actions you are able to take on this page?
Click on the 'add file' button. For the purposes of this session, let's assume you've uploaded the document you see here and have chosen the correct file details (in this case, Military Personnel Record). What might you do next?
• 

/What do you think that checkbox means?/
• I’m acknowledging that what I’m uploading is pertinent to the claim I have, and not just submitting evidence to submit evidence.

Click 'submit files for review'.

## 5th screen: Open Claim Details > File Tab - Status Detail (submission state)
/What would you expect to see after you click submit?/
• I would see a standard this is what you want to submit and it would show up here. Okay there we go. It’s uploaded and it’s right there.

/What is most helpful about this page?/
• It’s telling me they don’t need any additional evidence, but if it I have I can submit more. I think being able to remove evidence, might be beneficial. Like say if I submit something and realize it’s the wrong thing, I can remove it.

# Post-Task Interview
/Do you have any other feedback to share with us today?/
• No, I don’t think so.

# Thank-You and Closing
Well we really appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us today. Your feedback is helpful to us as we continue to work on the site and make sure it really works for Veterans.

For your participation, you'll receive a check from Perigean, the company that recruited for this study, within two weeks. If you don't receive it, please contact _____.

Thanks! Lastly, do you know any other Veterans, caregivers, or service members who might be willing to participate in a future user research sesson? 
• “I am going to a minority veteran summit Saturday and Sunday, so I can for sure share the information with folks there.”

If Yes: Thank you! I'll have our team send you an email with a little blurb that you can pass along.

Great, well thank you so much again, and enjoy the rest of your day!

## Riley's Notes

### Warm-up Questions (Optional) - (5-10 minutes)

*Before we look at the VA website, let’s start with a few warm-up questions.*

**Tell me a little about yourself. (Where do you live? Which branch of service? What do you do for work?)**<br>
I live in (State). I served under Air Force. I am a substance abuse counselor. 

**Have you ever filed a disability claim with the Department of Veteran Affairs?** <br>
Yes, I did. 

**How did you file it (online, mail, fax, VSO)?** <br>
With the VSO. 

**How did you feel about the process?** <br>
Being retired medical, it made a whole lot more sense to me than most people. It was a fairy easy process, but it is because I understand how medical works and the whole point of the compensation. 

**Have you ever filed an appeal with the Department of Veteran Affairs?** <br>
No, I have not.

### Setup Task: Share your screen with Zoom - (5 minutes)
*Please minimize or close any windows that you don't want to share with us.
*Navigate to va.gov in your computer's browser.
*Click the "Share" on Zoom.

#### First Task: Show me where you would expect to file an appeal (on a disability claim decision)?

*Start on the home page of VA.gov.

*Things to watch for:*<br>
**What path does the participant take to file an appeal?**<br>
I would assume right here where it says “Check your claim or appeal status”. I would think that there should be a button that talks about filing a claim and one that talks about filing an appeal. Actually, I would think it would be “File a claim for compensation” and file an appeal. The other one is about a status. 

*Participant clicks on “File a claim for compensation”. 

The only thing I would say, is I see where it says “File a disability claim” but it doesn’t say anything about how to file an appeal. 

**“Is there anything helpful in that regard” - M** <br>
For an appeal? It walks through a disability claim very well. It doesn’t speak to an appeal at all. 

**“If there was something that might speak to an appeal, where would it be helpful on this page?” - M** <br>
I think under “How to file a claim” there would be a portion to file a claim and a portion to file an appeal. The same thing as filing a claim, how do you prepare, what evidence do you need, then click here (referring to green primary button) to file it. 

**“Is there any sort of information you can find that may help and assist you with filing a claim or if you have any questions that would lead you to any sort of appeal stuff?” - Moderator** <br>
I mean it talks you through filing an initial claim, but I don’t see anything in reference to an appeal. *Participant scrolling down page* I don’t see anything in reference to an appeal. 

I hear a lot of complaints about the process. It hasn’t been my experience, my experience has been very smooth and I hear a lot of complaints but it hasn’t been the case for me. 

**Does the participant realize that they cannot file an appeal on VA.gov?**<br>
The participant knows they cannot find where to file an appeal, but I’m not sure they realize they cannot file an appeal on VA.gov

**What keywords and phrases does the partipant look for?** <br>
“File a disability claim” “Check your claim or appeal status” “File a claim for compensation” 

**What painpoints do they encounter?** <br>
They were unsure which link to click on initially. 

**What works well?** <br>
The process for filing a claim works well. 

### Second Task: Now I'm going to share a link to the prototype in the chat. Can you click on it?
(https://vsateams.invisionapp.com/share/S2U2NQZZ76A#/385489667_Intro-Page-2)

#### 1st screen: Claim Status Tool

**Can you take a few moments to look at this screen and tell me about what you think you can do on this page? - M** <br>
So, this page basically you can check what stage your claim is. So this one (referenced first) it’s been closed and they’ve sent a decision, this one (second) we’ve received it and are gathering and reviewing decision, …. all these (the remainder) are closed. 

**“Anything on this page particularly helpful?” - M** <br>
I think this portion is very easy to see and understand. 

**How would you view the details of your most recent, open dependency claim?** <br>
You would just click “View status”. *Participant clicks on "View status" button*

*Clicks View Status button.*

#### 2nd screen: Open Claim Details

**Take a few moments to look at this screen.**<br>
I would expect to see this. *Participant explains process, Notetaker missed it*  

**“Is there anything else that would be helpful?” - M** <br>
I think this is sufficient. The only thing I’d say is adding the files here would be nice. Right now you do some things on eBenefits and check the status here (VA.gov). Being able to do it on one website versus doing it between the two. The details, sometimes the details say something but doesn’t give you a reference to what it means. 

**Is there anything that you think you need to do regarding your claim? - M** <br>


**"What do you think you'll see on the Files tab?" - M** <br>
I would expect to see certificates, such as marriage certificates. 

**Go ahead and click on it.** 

#### 3rd screen: Open Claim Details > File tab*

**What would you do here?** <br>
I have no idea why Dental is on a dependency claim. It looks like it’s listing all files that were maybe attached to any open claim vs this specific claim. I don’t see anything on here related to claiming dependency. It says correspondence but I have no idea. Being able to open it would be beneficial too so I could know what correspondence and make sure it’s correct. Sometimes things are uploaded incorrectly and it causes confusion and increases everyone’s frustration. 

**Is there anything that is unclear on this screen?** <br>
No, it tells me that I don’t need to do anything nor does anyone else. They have all the paperwork that they currently believe that they need, so no. 

**Let's say you had more files to submit for this claim. What would you do next?** <br>
Oh, I think you need to go to eBenefits. Oh, right here (View details button). I would expect to be able to select the file and submit it and add a description. Birth certificate, marriage certificate, any of those, and “other” so if it doesn’t fit into any standard categories I could select that. 

**Go ahead and click on the 'view details' button.**

#### 4th screen: Open Claim Details > File Tab > Add File*
    
**"Is this what you'd expect to see?" - M** <br>
Oh yeah, there’s the standard “Add file”

**"Is it clear what actions you are able to take on this page?" - M** <br>
Oh yeah, definitely. 

**“Anything unhelpful?” - Moderator** <br>
No, I mean it gives you the warning about what to submit and what not to submit. I think it’s pretty self-explanatory. 

I can add files, fax it or mail it if I need to, and I know what types of files I can upload. 

**Click on the 'add file' button. For the purposes of this session, let's assume you've uploaded the document you see here and have chosen the correct file details (in this case, Military Personnel Record). What might you do next?** <br>
I’m gonna acknowledge that I’m not just sending things to send things. If I selected the wrong thing I could remove it. 

**Is it clear what you are confirming by clicking the checkbox?** <br>
I’m acknowledging that what I’m uploading is pertinent to the claim I have instead of submitting evidence just to submit evidence. 

**Click 'submit files for review'.**

#### 5th screen: Open Claim Details > File Tab - Status Detail (submission state)*

**Is there any particularly helpful pieces of information here?** <br>
It’s telling me they don’t need any additional information, but if I want to submit more I can. It’s telling me the kind of evidence. I think the ability to remove evidence may be beneficial. Let’s say I submit something and I realize they already have it, or it’s the wrong thing, I would like to be able to remove it. 

### Post-Task Interview

**Do you have any other feedback to share with us today?**<br>
No, I don’t think so. 


