# p4 Notes

**Friday, September 27, 2019, 2:00 pm EST**

### Layla's Notes

Kevin: Tell me about yourself. 

P4: Virgina Beach, Army guy. I own a business and sell and install garage doors.

Kevin: Have you ever filed an appeal online?

P4: Yes sir. 

It started a long time ago. Mail. The latest has been online.

K: How did you feel about the process?

P4: It’s okay. Sometimes I wonder if anybody reads what’s sent in, but that’s another issue.

I have an appeal in process right now. I filled it in online and sent it in online.

If it does what it says it does, it’s fine. I sent it 10 days ago, so we’ll see if it works out.

Kevin prompts P4 to screen share and go to VA.gov.

Kevin: Can you show me where you would expect to file an appeal on VA.gov?

P4: Um. File for claim compensation.

Kevin: What do you expect if you click on that link?

P4: Some instructions and a form telling me what to do.

Kevin: How does this compare with your expectations?

P4: That’s what I expected.

I guess all of it. Learn about fully developed claims …. Reads. It’s all self explanatory

Kevin: Any info helpful for appeals?

*Scrolls…*

P4: Not on that screen. But the original screen. File for an appeal has a line.

*Goes back to homepage. Looks through links on Disability.*

P4: I guess for appeals, you would, um. I guess check your claim or appeals status, I guess.
I’d expect to see the status of my current claim or where my appeal is in the process.

On file for VA disability increase -- means that I have new data that would support an increase in claim.  

*Clicks on File for VA disability increase link.

Scrolls through content.*

P4: It gives you the form to use. 526ez pdf. Um. Yeah. I guess that’s pretty good. 

K: What was helpful?

P4: It says 82.5 days to decide, so I know not to check everyday.

K: Anything unhelpful. Or not enough information?

*Scrolls…*

P4: Nah. I think it’s pretty good.

K: Is there anywhere else on the site to find out info about appeals?

P4: There are three new ways to do that. But I don’t see anything about an appeal itself.

K: If you did see something, where might you expect to see it?

P4: Under Disability.

*Kevin shares link to prototype.*

K: Tell me about what you can do on this page.

P4: I check the claim for compensation. They sent me a letter saying it was close. It reopened it. I can view the status of that. All of the other ones are closed.

K: Are there any actions you can take?

P4: View status, I guess. 

I’d expect to it tell me where we are in the process.

K: How might you view the most recent open dependency claim?
Reads…

P4: I’d like to click on View Status and see what’s going on.

*Clicks button.*

P4: It says they received my claim and they’re adding more information. If they need more information, they’ll request it from me. They haven’t done it.

Estimated completion date. That’s August 8th. Obviously long passed.

Once they have the info they need, they’ll send it to the rating specialist. Evidentally, I’ve done everything I can.

K: What do you expect to see if you click the Files tab?

P4: I’d expect to see information that I sent in. 

*Clicks on the tab.*

*Scrolls.*

*Reads screen…*

P4: Well, personally, I’d like to see the personal evidence that I submitted and see if they got it. If I hit View Details, will I see that?

K: what is helpful on this screen?

P4: What you’ve claimed is unavailable. I’m not sure why that isn’t available. 

Under Additional Evidence, you can view details and upload them.

It’ll probably have some VA form for me to fill out. Or a doctor’s letter, Nexus letter to attach.

*Clicks View Details button.*

It says Select Files to upload. If it’s as easy as it says it is. I’ve filed an appeal 10 days ago. Have they actually received those files?

*Clicks Add Files.*

K: After this is uploaded, what would you do next?
What type of documentation is this? Military Personnel Record. That’s all I see there.

P4: Click the checkbox. Then I’d hit Submit files for Review.

[Checkbox] is an acknowledgment that if something is unrelated, they won’t pay attention to it.

K: Is this what you’d expect to see after you submit files for review?

P4: Yeah. I guess.

P4: It said document filed. It does tell me that the files were submitted.

K: Is there anything missing from this screen?

P4: I’d like to see if the evidence I sent is the paperwork they got. They say we didn’t get that. Well, why didn’t someone tell me that?

K: Any other feedback?

P4: If I’m doing something wrong, I wonder if there’s a way for me to talk to someone. The only way to do that is to call the 1-800 number and wait 30 minutes.

K: So better forms of communication?

P4: Yes sir.

*Kevin wraps up.*

### Riley's Notes 

#### Warm-up Questions (Optional) - (5-10 minutes)
Before we look at the VA website, let’s start with a few warm-up questions.
* Tell me a little about yourself. (Where do you live? Which branch of service? What do you do for work?)

 I live in [City, State] and I’m an army guy. I own a business. I sell and install garage doors. 

* Have you ever filed a disability claim with the Department of Veteran Affairs?

 Yes sir

    * How did you file it (online, mail, fax, VSO)?

 It started a long time ago with mail, and the latest has been online.

    * How did you feel about the process?

Oh I think it’s okay. I sometimes wonder if anybody reads what’s sent in, but that’s another issue. 

* Have you ever filed an appeal with the Department of Veteran Affairs

I have an appeal in process right now

    * How did you go about filing it?

I filled out all the paperwork online and sent it in. 

    * How did you feel about the process?

Well, if it does what it says it’s done it’s fine. I only filed the appeal about 10 days ago so it hasn’t had time to react. I assume it’ll work okay.

#### Setup Task: Share your screen with Zoom - (5 minutes)
* Please minimize or close any windows that you don't want to share with us.
* Navigate to va.gov in your computer's browser.
* Click the "Share" on Zoom.

#### First Task: Show me where you would expect to file an appeal (on a disability claim decision)?
* Start on the home page of VA.gov.

Things to watch for:
* What path does the participant take to file an appeal?

*participant is hovering over records, reading*
File a claim for compensation. I would expect some instructions telling me what to do. 

*participant clicks on link*
This is what i expect to see. 

“Any helpful information?” - Moderator
Learn about fully developed claims and find out if you need to turn in any additional forms. Find out what evidence we need for your claim. Down to file a disability compensation claim seems helpful. 

“Anything about appeals?” - Moderator
Uhm, not… let’s see, let me scroll down here *participant scrolling down page* Not on that screen. The original screen has a “file an appeal” has a different line. 

*participant goes by to home screen*
File a VA disability increase… check your claim… I guess for appeals. Hmm, let me see here. I guess check your claim or appeal status first. 

“What would you expect to see?” - Moderator
Current status of my claim or appeal. 

“What about file for a vA disability increase?” - Moderator
I guess that could be for an appeal, I don’t know that. To me, that means I have new data that would support an additional claim or an increase in claim. 

*participant clicks on VA disability increase link*
“How does this compare to what you expected to see?”

It gives you the forms to use. 526-EZ. I guess it’s pretty good. 

“What was particularly helpful?” - Moderator
That it says 82.5 days for VA to make a decision. I know not to check once a week because it’s gonna take three months. 

“Anything unhelpful or wasn’t enough information?” - Moderator
Let me scroll back up… No, I think it’s pretty good. 

“Is there anywhere else on the website where you think you might be able to find information about an appeal?” - Moderator
There’s three different processes for filing an appeal. I don’t see that here under Health care, Disability, Education, or Records. I don’t see anything about an appeal itself. 

“If you did see something, where might you expect to see it?” - Moderator
Under disability. 

* Does the participant realize that they cannot file an appeal on VA.gov?

I am unsure if they realize it

* What keywords and phrases does the partipant look for?

 claim, appeals, disability

* What painpoints do they encounter?

The Veteran has a difficult time transitioning from task #1 to task #2 due to experiencing technical difficulties with Zoom. 

They have difficulty finding where appeals would be on the site 

* What works well?

 

#### Second Task: Now I'm going to share a link to the prototype in the chat. Can you click on it?
(https://vsateams.invisionapp.com/share/S2U2NQZZ76A#/385489667_Intro-Page-2)
* 1st screen: Claim Status Tool
    * Can you take a few moments to look at this screen and tell me about what you think you can do on this page?

 Check the claim for compensation, which they sent me a letter on July 30, 2019 saying the status was closed. I reopened it with claims for compensation received on August 13. I can view the status of that. All the other ones are closed. 

“Are there any actions you could take?” - Moderator
View the status, I guess. 

Tell me where we are in the process. Have they received the data I’ve given, reviewed it, issued an answer. Those types of things. 

    * How would you view the details of your most recent, open dependency claim?

Received on July 30, I’d like to view status to see what’s going on. 


    * Clicks View Status button.



* 2nd screen: Open Claim Details
    * Take a few moments to look at this screen.

It says they’ve received my claim and are gathering information, and completed an initial review. Evidence gathering, review, and decision, if they need more information they’ll request it from me. They estimate a complete date of August 8, obviously that’s long passed. 

    * Is there anything that you think you need to do regarding your claim?

Uh, I don’t think so. But, again, if they need more information they’ll request it from me. Once they have the information they need, they’ll review it and send it to the rating specialist. I’ve done everything I can do right now. 


    * What do you think you'll see on the Files tab?

Files tab… I don’t see a files tab. Oh! There it is! I got it. I’d expect to see information I had sent in. 

“Files you may have sent in already?” - Moderator
Yeah

I would expect to see certificates, such as marriage certificates. 

    * Go ahead and click on it.
* 3rd screen: Open Claim Details > File tab
    * What would you do here?

It says we’re adding your details. Check back soon to see complete details of your claim. Don’t need to turn in any documents to VA. Additional evidence, upload more evidence. I thought I had done that, so. 

    * Is there anything that is unclear on this screen?

Well, personally I’d like to see the Additional evidence I submitted and see if they got it. If I hit view details would that tell me that? 

“What is helpful on this screen?” - Moderator
I guess the fact that status, files, and details. On my dependency claim what I’ve claims is not available. I don’t know why it wouldn’t be available unless they haven’t gotten all the papers they need to get. 

    * Let's say you had more files to submit for this claim. What would you do next?

Uh, under additional evidence you can view details and upload it there now. 

“What would you expect to see?” - Moderator
They’d probably have some VA form they want me to fill out. Or they’d want an attachment, doctors letter, etc. 

    * Go ahead and click on the 'view details' button.
* 4th screen: Open Claim Details > File Tab > Add File
    * Is this what you'd expect to see?

First of all, it says “select files to upload” and then “submit files for review” so that’s a good thing. 

If it’s as easy as it says it is to select files and upload. Like I said, I filed an appeal 10 days ago. Have they received those files?

    * Is it clear what actions you are able to take on this page?


    * Click on the 'add file' button. For the purposes of this session, let's assume you've uploaded the document you see here and have chosen the correct file details (in this case, Military Personnel Record). What might you do next?

What type of documentation is this? *tries to click* 

Click the box that says “I understand…” then I’d hit “submit files for review”

    * Is it clear what you are confirming by clicking the checkbox?

 It’s just an acknowledgement that if something’s unrelated they’re not gonna pay any attention to it. 

    * Click 'submit files for review'.
* 5th screen: Open Claim Details > File Tab - Status Detail (submission state)
    * Is this what you'd expect to see opon submission?

Uhm, yeah I guess. 

    * Is there any particularly helpful pieces of information here?

Well it said documents filed and I submitted them on September 23, I don’t know why it would say that since today is the 27th, but anyway. It does tell me that the files were submitted. 

“Is there anything you’d like to see that isn’t on the screen?” - Moderator
I’d like to see if the evidence I submitted is the evidence I got. I’d like to see that they got the paperwork I submitted. In the past, they just say they didn’t get that. Why didn’t someone tell me that? 

Post-Task Interview
* Do you have any other feedback to share with us today?

I’m not a rookie at this stuff, but I’m not an expert. If I was doing something wrong I would like to talk to somebody to know if I’m submitted in a correct manner. Right now the only way is to call the 1-800 number where you’re gonna be put on hold for half an hour. 

“Better forms of communication?” - Moderator
Yes sir. 


