# Claim Status Tool Decision Review Research<br>
**Sept 30, 2019 at 2:00 PM**

## Riley's Notes

### Warm-up Questions (Optional) - (5-10 minutes)

Before we look at the VA website, let’s start with a few warm-up questions.

**Tell me a little about yourself. (Where do you live? Which branch of service? What do you do for work?)**<br>
Live in (City, State). Was army for 6.5 years. Weather is pretty good. 

**Have you ever filed a disability claim with the Department of Veteran Affairs?**<br>
Actually did a couple weeks ago for the first time. 

**How did you file it (online, mail, fax, VSO)?**<br>
It was through DVS (Department of Veteran Services). 

**How did you feel about the process?** <br>
How did I feel? Uhm, I mean the guy I worked with was helpful. It was better than doing it solo, ya know? 

**"Anything that was a problem?" - M**<br>
No, overall positive. 

**Have you ever filed an appeal with the Department of Veteran Affairs** <br>
Not yet, I anticipate it but not yet. 

### Setup Task: Share your screen with Zoom - (5 minutes)<br>
*Please minimize or close any windows that you don't want to share with us.
*Navigate to va.gov in your computer's browser.
*Click the "Share" on Zoom.

#### First Task: Show me where you would expect to file an appeal (on a disability claim decision)?

*Start on the home page of VA.gov.

*Things to watch for:*<br>
**What path does the participant take to file an appeal?**<br>
Oh, wow okay. Uhm… Right here (hovers over “Check your claim or appeal status”)

**“What would you expect to see?” - M**<br>
A status of where the appeal’s at. 

**“Anything else where you might expect to potentially file an appeal or get more info?” - M**<br>
I mean, down here obviously (“upload evidence to support your claim”). 

**“If you were to click, what would you expect to see?” - M**<br>
Probably some form to upload documents. 

**“How about the link below it? (File for a VA disability increase)” - M**<br>
Probably just a blank form. 

**“Anywhere else on this page that might pertain to an appeal?” - M** <br> 
I mean, we went over the top one. I think… (scrolling down page). Top one would be my guy. 

**“Which of those makes the most sense to click on for an appeals-type of filing an appeal?” - M** <br>
The one that’s not there that would say “File an appeal”. 

**“Click on whichever one makes most sense” - M** <br>
*Clicks on Check your VA claim or appeal status*

**“Is this pretty close to what you expected?” - M**<br>
Pretty close

**“Anything on this page that’s helpful?” - M** <br> 
Helpful… uhm… *participant scrolling* The instructions.. it’s pretty straightforward how it’s laid out. Anyone who can read can get through it. 

**“Seems clear?” - M**<br>
It does.

**“Anything that could be made clearer? Anything unhelpful?” - M** <br>
No, just what we said earlier on the initial page. Have something that says “File an appeal” to make it cut and dry. 

**“Is there anything on this page that you think pertains to filing an appeal?” - M** <br>
Not that I’m seeing *Scrolling up and down the page*. Okay, I mean “What kind of information will I learn about my VA claim or appeal” kind of touches on it. 

**“Is there any other link on the homepage that might maybe give you more information or would this page make most sense? Feel free to click around” - M** <br>
Well, “upload evidence to support your claim" sounds appeal-like to me. *Clicks on it* Let me look at it for a second *Scrolling down page*. Okay, so the previous one had a phone number which is helpful to lots of people I’m sure. This one seems to be more useful as far as what it says.. evidence to support your disabilities claim. Uhm, *continues scrolling* yeah. I don’t know if I’m on the right track, but this seems like a better direction to go. 

**“Is there any particular section of the page that stood out to you about filing an appeal?” - M** <br>
Yeah, the bottom “Can I upload evidence to support an appeal?” and a link “Learn more about filing an appeal”

**“If you clinked that link, what would you expect to see?” - M**<br>
Information as far as what to do what we’re talking about. 

*Clicks on link*

Okay, so the appeals process has changed *reading top alert*. Okay *scrolls down the page*. *Pauses on headers, scrolls quickly past subway*

**“What information did you find helpful?” - M** <br>
The timeframe expectation.

**“Anything else?” - M** <br> 
Yeah, I mean it’s laid out nicely about what to expect during the process. 

**“If you were filing an appeal, is there anything you feel you might need more information or was unhelpful?” - M** <br>
No, it’s good to go. 

**“Did you find the information easy to find today or it could have been better laid out?” - M** <br>
That’s subjective. I think on the homepage… you see “Have you already filed an appeal?” having that on the homepage would be more helpful. We found this, but it took a little while.  

**Does the participant realize that they cannot file an appeal on VA.gov?** <br>
I can’t assume one way or the other. 

**What keywords and phrases does the partipant look for?** <br>
“appeal” “claims” 

**What painpoints do they encounter?** <br>
They had difficulty finding information about the appeals process. They went to multiple pages searching for information. 

**What works well?** <br>
The way current pages are designed seem to work well for the participant. Especially sections that show how long things will take to process. 

### Second Task: Now I'm going to share a link to the prototype in the chat. Can you click on it?
(https://vsateams.invisionapp.com/share/S2U2NQZZ76A#/385489667_Intro-Page-2)

#### 1st screen: Claim Status Tool

**Can you take a few moments to look at this screen and tell me about what you think you can do on this page?** <br>

*Scrolling down and pausing to read, scrolling up and scrolling back down* <br> 
*Scrolls all the way to the bottom them back to the top* <br>
What I think can be done on this page is viewing the status of multiple claims. 

**How would you view the details of your most recent, open dependency claim?** <br>
Most recent open dependency.. uhm, *scrolling down, scrolling up, scrolling down, scrolling up* July 30th for dependency looks like it would be the most recent one, then clicking on “View status”

**“What would you expect to see?” - M** <br>
Hopefully the status of the claim. 

**“What it’s doing? In the timeline?” - M** <br>
Right, yeah. 

**“Any other information you think may make sense there?” - M** <br>
Maybe putting this more chronologically. It’s all mixed up, you know?

**“Other than that, is there anything that could be made clearer on this page?” - M**<br>
Not that I can think of. 

**“Anything particularly unhelpful or unclear?” - M** <br> 
No, just the chronological thing we talked about. 

*Clicks View Status button.*

#### 2nd screen: Open Claim Details

**Take a few moments to look at this screen.**

**“How does this compare to what you expected to see?” - M** <br>
A little bit better, really. I mean, it’s cut and dry. It shows where it’s at, what’s going on.

**“More information than you anticipated?” - M** <br>
Yes

**“You believe it’s helpful?” - M** <br>
Correct

**“Anything that could be improved?” - M** <br>
Uhm, I mean. Evidence gathering, review, decision.. if you’re trying to make it perfect then elaborate on step 3 here. I don’t know, it’s good. 

**Is there anything that you think you need to do regarding your claim?** 


**What do you think you'll see on the Files tab?** <br>
Documents. 

**“What sort of documents?” - M**<br>
Uhm, anything supporting this dependency claim. <br>
I would expect to see certificates, such as marriage certificates. 

**Go ahead and click on it.** 

#### 3rd screen: Open Claim Details > File tab

**What would you do here?** <br>
*Scrolling down, hovering over View Details button* Upload more evidence if needed would be my guess. 

**Is there anything that is unclear on this screen?** <br>
No, it seems pretty self-explanatory. 

**Let's say you had more files to submit for this claim. What would you do next?**<br>
I would do this right here “View details” 

**“What would you expect to see?” - M** <br>
Somewhere to upload additional evidence. 

**Go ahead and click on the 'view details' button.** 

#### 4th screen: Open Claim Details > File Tab > Add File

**Is this what you'd expect to see?** <br>
Okay, yeah. I wouldn’t say much doesn’t work. Add files here, so. 

**Is it clear what actions you are able to take on this page?** <br>
Yes, it’s easy to follow. Add files, makes it easy. 
 

**Click on the 'add file' button. For the purposes of this session, let's assume you've uploaded the document you see here and have chosen the correct file details (in this case, Military Personnel Record). What might you do next?** <br>
*User tried to click on “Add Files” button after they selected it already* <br>
Check this box. 

**Is it clear what you are confirming by clicking the checkbox?** <br>
I’m just gonna read it to you. *Reads it out loud* It means if I’ve mistakenly added stuff y’all don’t need to see then it won’t be reviewed. 

**“What would you think if you clicked Submit Files for Review?” - M** <br>
Some sort of confirmation

**Click 'submit files for review'.** 

#### 5th screen: Open Claim Details > File Tab - Status Detail (submission state)

**Is this what you'd expect to see opon submission?** <br>
It’s pretty much right there. 

**Is there any particularly helpful pieces of information here?** <br>
Uhm, nah. To me it looks like a confirmation. Check mark (referencing icon) good to go. 

**“Anything unhelpful on this page?” - M** <br>
Nah. 

### Post-Task Interview

**Do you have any other feedback to share with us today?** <br>
Uhm, no. I have a question. You’re referring to this as a prototype. Would this be going live anytime soon?

**“This, the prototype you clicked through is definitely in progress. We’re testing and tweaking to close any gaps. Once we feel it’s in a good place it would be potentially implemented. Soon, I don’t know. We have to go through multiple iterations of testing” - Moderator** 
