# Session 6, Oct 1, 10am

## Carolyn's Notes

### Intro - 5 minutes
Thanks for joining us today! My name is Kevin and I also have some colleagues on the line observing and taking notes. Today we're going to talk about the appeals process on VA.gov.

• Okay.

*Before we start, a few things I want to mention:*
	• *This entire session should take about 45 minutes.* I want to be sure not to keep you much longer, so I may occasionally prompt you with the next question or topic.

	• *In this session, we want to hear your honest opinions.* We are not testing your ability. In reality, we're testing ourselves. We just want to improve these tools to better meet Veteran's needs. I will not be offended by any opinions you express, and I welcome your feedback.

	• *During part of our session today, you'll be interacting with prototypes and a demo tool.* The prototype may not function exactly the way you expect. Some areas of the prototype will be clickable, and some will not. Since it's a demo, none of your actions will affect your actual VA information or benefits.

	• *If for any reason and at any time you want to stop the session, please let me know.*

	• *Are you comfortable if I record my screen and audio as we talk today?* We use the recordings to confirm that we have captured your opinions accurately. The recordings are destroyed after we complete analysis, and none of your comments will be attributed to you directly.
	• Yeah, that’s fine

		• If yes: *Once I start recording, I am going to confirm that you are ok with me recording this session once more.*

/Start recording./

*I have started recording. I'd like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record my screen and the audio as we talk today?*
Yes.

### Warm-up Questions (Optional) - (5-10 minutes)
Before we look at the VA website, let’s start with a few warm-up questions.

Tell me a little about yourself. (Where do you live? Which branch of service? What do you do for work?)
	• Sure. I live in Stafford VA right now. I was in the Marine Corps for six years..

Have you ever filed a disability claim with the Department of Veteran Affairs?
	• I have.

How did you file it (online, mail, fax, VSO)?
	• Um, I submitted it online through e-benefits first, and then I did a supplemental that was faxed. 

How did you feel about the process?
	• With my initial claim, I feel like there wasn’t as much communication as I would like. I was going abroad…
	• And the process went ahead automatically while I was gone. And resulted in my claim being denied, and that caused me to submit the supplemental claim. So the second round was much better.

Have you ever filed an appeal with the Department of Veteran Affairs
	• Yes. Because I submitted the supplemental

How did you go about filing it?
	•  

How did you feel about the process?
	• Really good. It went really smoothly. The third party who helped me—I was working with LHI—and they in a matter of a month, I got an answer saying they received everything and were ready to schedule me. They schedule me to go over everything within two weeks from that phone call and it processed within a week and a half.

### Setup Task: Share your screen with Zoom - (5 minutes)
Please minimize or close any windows that you don't want to share with us.
Navigate to va.gov in your computer's browser.
Click the "Share" on Zoom.


#### First Task: Show me where you would expect to file an appeal (on a disability claim decision)?
Start on the home page of VA.gov.

• I think it’s over here somewhere [hovering over disability]
• [clicks on How To File A Claim]
• I mean it’s good information, but what I would like to see is a button like this [file a claim]  up at the time
• All the information about getting ready to file the claim is good.
• But I just think there is a difference between an information page and an action page. This one is kind of both. And that’s not that clear.
• Since there are three different things—initial claim, supplemental, and appeal—and it would good to have those three buttons on the same page. So it’s a little clearer what process your starting by what button you push.
• This looks like it’s just for your initial claim. I don’t see anything for an appeal
• [return to homepage]  Maybe uploading evidence? This one says Check Your Status,  but I assume that’s for your initial claim
• [on upload evidence page] Again, this is good information. I mean it’s all good information, but I’m not sure if I want to upload my information I don’t think I’d want so much information as much as a button to upload my evidence.
• Just here at the bottom “Learn more” which I assume would take me to another information page, not an action page
• In describing what you need to do and what paperwork you need is good, but the action part is not clear.
• [expectations of “learn more about filing an appeal”] what constitutes an appeal. What you should have ready. Where it’s going to go, who’s going to look at it.
	• [on the page] Yeah this is what I would say I was expecting to see. I think if it was more, the instructions were more direct. Like if you’re filing direct. It doesn’t, to me, make it glaringly obvious how you’re going to do that.

### Second Task: Now I'm going to share a link to the prototype in the chat. Can you click on it?
(https://vsateams.invisionapp.com/share/S2U2NQZZ76A#/385489667_Intro-Page-2)

#### 1st screen: Claim Status Tool
/Can you take a few moments to look at this screen and tell me about what you think you can do on this page?/
• Yep, so this is pretty good. It has each individually filing that you would have submitted separately. It tells you whether it’s received and what the status of it. 
• I know in my case, I didn’t feel confident in the status that I was being told. But the fact that it’s being offered there and if it’s accurate then that’s great.
• I guess the View Status button gives you more information, maybe let’s you view the documents that were submitted with the form
• It’s very direct and obvious. I like this “Find out why we sometimes combine claims” because if I submitted 4 claims but I’m only seeing 3 I might wonder what happened, and boom I can learn why.
• If it’s a closed claim, I might want to see the status of it. 

#### 2nd screen: Open Claim Details
Take a few moments to look at this screen. 
• This looks really good. It gives a full checklist of the process, and where you are in the claim. I like the estimated date, that’s helpful. I know I don’t need to do anything until that estimated date has come and gone

/Is there anything that you think you need to do regarding your claim?/
• 

/What do you think you'll see on the Files tab?/
• Everything that I have submitted for this claim. So I can make sure that everything I submitted, actually made it to the process

/Go ahead and click on it./

#### 3rd screen: Open Claim Details > File tab

/What would you do here?/
• It’s good that File Requests is on the top. That’s the most important. 
• And these are good, this just shows everything I did submit and the name of the document, so that’s good

/What is most helpful about this page?/
• This is clear, this is good

/Let's say you had more files to submit for this claim. What would you do next?/
• I would click on the view details button. There might more information on what constitutes as evidence before you start submitting whatever files you’ve got


#### 4th screen: Open Claim Details > File Tab > Add File
Is this what you'd expect to see?
Is it clear what actions you are able to take on this page?
Click on the 'add file' button. For the purposes of this session, let's assume you've uploaded the document you see here and have chosen the correct file details (in this case, Military Personnel Record). What might you do next?
• This page kind of assumes what documents count for their situation. They probably have some literature or some information from the website about what they need. That would be good here
• Having an option for people who don’t do things online, is good.
• Maybe a link about what constitutes as evidence

/What do you think that checkbox means?/
• It means that I shouldn’t be submitting anything that doesn’t apply to the claim, and that by checking this I am submitting documents relevant to my claim
• I will say, the wording for some might be a little confusing. Because it’s almost a double negative. I can see how that might be confusing for people. 
• To the lowest common denominator, it’s not clear enough
• By the time you get to the bottom of the page, I don’t think there is anything you need to add to make it clearer.

Click 'submit files for review'.

#### 5th screen: Open Claim Details > File Tab - Status Detail (submission state)
/What would you expect to see after you click submit?/

/What is most helpful about this page?/
• It worked! So that’s good. 

### Post-Task Interview
/Do you have any other feedback to share with us today?/
• I just want to reiterate from my point earlier. When I needed to submit a supplemental claim, I really want to be able to do it online, and I couldn’t. 

### Thank-You and Closing
Well we really appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us today. Your feedback is helpful to us as we continue to work on the site and make sure it really works for Veterans.

For your participation, you'll receive a check from Perigean, the company that recruited for this study, within two weeks. If you don't receive it, please contact _____.

Thanks! Lastly, do you know any other Veterans, caregivers, or service members who might be willing to participate in a future user research session? 
• “I am going to a minority veteran summit Saturday and Sunday, so I can for sure share the information with folks there.”

If Yes: Thank you! I'll have our team send you an email with a little blurb that you can pass along.

Great, well thank you so much again, and enjoy the rest of your day!

## Riley's Notes <br>

### Warm-up Questions (Optional) - (5-10 minutes)
Before we look at the VA website, let’s start with a few warm-up questions.

**Tell me a little about yourself. (Where do you live? Which branch of service? What do you do for work?)** <br>
I live in [City, State] right now. I was in the Marine Corps the first six years. The weather is going to be very hot the next few days. In the 90s. 

**Have you ever filed a disability claim with the Department of Veteran Affairs?** <br>
I have

**How did you file it (online, mail, fax, VSO)?** <br>
I submitted it online through e-Benefits I believe. Then I did a supplemental that was faxed. 

**How did you feel about the process?** <br>
Uhm, with my initial claim I feel like there wasn’t as much communication as I would have liked. My extenuating circumstances was that I was leaving the country so I needed feedback on expediting the process or postponing it until I got back. The process went ahead automatically while I was gone and resulted in my claim being denied. So, when I got back I had to do the supplemental. Once that was done I got a lot of feedback and a lot of help. The second round was a lot better than the first. 

**Have you ever filed an appeal with the Department of Veteran Affairs** <br>
Yes, through the supplemental

**How did you go about filing it?** <br>
Faxed

**How did you feel about the process?** <br>
Really good. It went really smoothly. The third party that was helping me out, LHI, in a matter of a month I got an answer back saying, “We’ve received everything, looked over it, ready to schedule”. They scheduled an appointment with my physician within two weeks of that phone call. It was processed within a week after that. 

### Setup Task: Share your screen with Zoom - (5 minutes) <br>
* Please minimize or close any windows that you don't want to share with us. <br>
* Navigate to va.gov in your computer's browser. <br>
* Click the "Share" on Zoom. <br>

#### First Task: Show me where you would expect to file an appeal (on a disability claim decision)?<br>
*Start on the home page of VA.gov. <br>

*Things to watch for:*
**What path does the participant take to file an appeal? <br>

“How to file a VA disability claim” is what I would do. *Clicks on it*

**“Is this what you would expect to see?” - M** <br>
It’s good information, but I’d like to see some sort of button like this “File a disability compensation claim”. 

**“What on this page is particularly helpful?” - M** <br>
All of this information is about getting ready for filing a claim. Sources you may need to use, collecting all your data before the process. But, I just think there’s a difference between an information page an an action page. This one seems kind of to be both which isn’t as clear as it could be. 

**“You made a comment about if there were a button or something. How might that improve the experience?” - M** <br>
Right, so since there’s initial claim, supplemental claim, appeals claim, I don’t know if it would make sense to have those three buttons presented together so you could start the process that’s best for you depending on which button you push. 

**“Is there anything on this page that specifically pertains to appeals?” - M** <br>
No. This looks like it’s just for your initial claim. I don’t see anything for appeals here. 

**“If you were to go to the homepage, is there anything else that may have taken you to something more related to appeals?” - M** <br>
Maybe the “Upload evidence” button. This one says to check your status, but I’m assuming that’s for appeals that have already been submitted. 

**“What would you expect to see for “Upload evidence”?” - M** <br>
I would expect to see an “upload files” section. I’m not signed in, so maybe it would prompt me to sign in and then it would take me to my actual account. 

**“Of the links you’ve identified, which one do you think you’d find the most information on appeals potentially?” - M** <br>
Honestly, I don’t think any of them directly. Maybe the “Appeal status” one because it says “Appeal”. I would expect it to be a little more clear. 

*Clicks on “Upload evidence to support your disability claim”*

**“Is this what you expected to see?” - M** <br>
Again, it’s good information. *Scrolling down, then up* I mean, it’s all good information but I’m not sure that if I say I wasn’t to upload evidence to support my claim I wouldn’t expect to have a bunch of information in front of me without a button prompting me to upload it. This is good, “See if you need to complete any additional forms” since it would prompt me to sign in and present me with a checklist of things I’ve done and things I need to do. 

**“On this page, is there anything you see that points to appeals or mentions appeals?” - M** <br>
*Scrolling up and down* Hmm, just here at the bottom. Just this bit, learn more. Which I’m assuming is taking me to another information page, not an action page. 

**“On this page, is there any information you believe is particularly helpful?” - M** <br>
Well, I mean again in describing what you need to do. What qualifies as evidence, paperwork needed for next steps, yes. But as an action, no. 

**“Let’s scroll down to the bottom. If you were to click on “Learn more about filing an appeal” what would you expect to find there?” - M** <br>
What constitutes as an appeal, what you should have ready, where it’s gonna go, how long it’s gonna take, who’s gonna look at it. *Clicks on link*

Hey look, you can review your appeal. We’ve already done one. Right, so how long it takes. The actual form you need to fill out. That’s the form you need to do to submit with your evidence. Uhm, your supplemental statement which I have done. It goes to the board, you have a hearing, yeah. This is what I was expecting to see here. 

**“Is there anything that could have been made clearer?” - M** <br>
Uhm, I think if it was more… if the instruction was more direct that the expectation that the item you’re mailing in… it doesn’t make it glaringly obvious how you’re going to do that. 

**Does the participant realize that they cannot file an appeal on VA.gov?** <br>
It is unclear. 

**What keywords and phrases does the partipant look for?** <br>
“appeals” “claims” “status”

**What painpoints do they encounter?** <br>
The participant has trouble finding where to submit an appeal 

**What works well?** <br>
Many of the pages visited contain helpful information. 
 

#### Second Task: Now I'm going to share a link to the prototype in the chat. Can you click on it?<br>
(https://vsateams.invisionapp.com/share/S2U2NQZZ76A#/385489667_Intro-Page-2)
#### 1st screen: Claim Status Tool <br>

**Can you take a few moments to look at this screen and tell me about what you think you can do on this page?**<br>
*Scrolls down* Yup, so this is pretty good. It has each individual filing that you would have submitted as an individual entity. It has the status which is good. In my experience, I didn’t feel confident with the status information that was provided. I felt like it was outdated and didn’t get update in real time. The fact that it’s offered there is really helpful. It eliminates someone needing to make a phone call. I’m guessing the “View status” button gives you more information about the status and what that claim is for. Maybe view documents associated with the claim.

**“Anything that could be made more clear or isn’t very helpful?” - M** <br>
No, I think it’s very clear. It’s nice and simple. It’s very direct and obvious what you can get out of it. I like the link “Find out why we sometimes combine claims” because sometimes it is confusing. Let’s say I submit four claims but it gets combined to three, I may be wondering what happened to that fourth claim. It’s good.  

**How would you view the details of your most recent, open dependency claim?** <br>
Uh, I would click on this second link. My assumption is that the most recent of each type would be at the top. The other dependency claim is July 10 and it’s further down. So I would click on the one at the top. 

**“Anything else you’d expect to see if you clicked on “View Status” button?” - M** <br>
If it’s a closed claim and I clicked “View status” I might want to see the outcome. I don’t know if that’s the point, but at some point I’d like to see everything that was mailed to me, hard copy, and this is the result of your claim. I’d want to see that there or somewhere deeper in that claims page.

*Clicks View Status button.*


#### 2nd screen: Open Claim Details
**Take a few moments to look at this screen.** <br>

**“How does this compare with what you expected to see?” - M** <br>
Nope, this looks really good. It gives a full checklist of anywhere that the claim could be in the process, where the claim is right now, and an estimated date. Anywhere on the site should be answering questions that you would need to pick up the phone for. It puts the user at ease that they don’t have to worry until the estimated date gets closer. 

**Is there anything that you think you need to do regarding your claim?** <br>
No. 

**What do you think you'll see on the Files tab?** <br>
My assumption that everything I submitted in that claim. All the VA forms, if there’s a supplemental letter, since it’s a dependency claim all of the dependency information. So I can see that everything I submitted in the process is there. 

**Go ahead and click on it**<br>
#### 3rd screen: Open Claim Details > File tab

**What would you do here?** <br>
Right, so I think that the file requests is at the top because if there’s anything the board needs that isn’t submitted is the most important thing I need to see. The second most important is what I’d want to submit additionally so that’s good. Yeah, this (additional evidence) is good because without showing personal information is showing everything I submitted. 

**Is there anything that is unclear on this screen?** <br>
No, this is clear. This is good. 

**Let's say you had more files to submit for this claim. What would you do next?** <br>
I would click on the “View details” button because I would have expected an upload button in this box (the card). 

**“What would you expect?” - M** <br>
Maybe more information on what additional evidence might look like or what constitutes as evidence before you start submitting whatever files you’ve got. 

**Go ahead and click on the 'view details' button.** <br>

#### 4th screen: Open Claim Details > File Tab > Add File

**Is this what you'd expect to see?** <br>


**“What works and doesn’t work on this page?” - M** <br>
So, this page assumes that the person knows what documents support their claim. Technically, if they’re submitting something they have some literature or read it elsewhere on the site. But maybe having a link there anyway as a reminder of what evidence looks like would be good. Other than that, the very obvious upload button is great. Having an option there for people who don’t do things digitally to give directions on how to mail or fax is good. Everything is good except what constitutes as evidence. 

**“A link or if there’s more information that might support their claim so they know what that i perhaps?” - M** <br>
Yes 

**Is it clear what actions you are able to take on this page?** <br>

**Click on the 'add file' button. For the purposes of this session, let's assume you've uploaded the document you see here and have chosen the correct file details (in this case, Military Personnel Record). What might you do next?** <br>
Uh, I’d hit this little terms button to say that I get it. If I upload something that doesn’t apply, it won’t be considered that’s fine. Then I’d submit for review. 

**Is it clear what you are confirming by clicking the checkbox?** <br>
The checkbox means that I shouldn’t be submitting anything there that doesn’t apply to the claim, and by checking that it assumes that what I submit does apply. I will say that the wording for some may be a little confusing because it’s almost a double negative. I don’t know if there is a more clear way to say that. 

**“You said something about users not knowing what is a supporting document. Does this help you in that sense? Is this clear enough of what would and would not be reviewed?” - M** <br>
I think to the lowest common denominator it’s not clear enough. 

**“What do you think would make it clearer?” - M**<br>
At the bottom of this page where you’re actually going to submit, no. I would think that by the time you’re actually uploading a file you’ve double-checked or a list has been provided to you saying what kind of things do apply. By the time you get to submitting the files, there’s no need to make anything clear there. 

**Click 'submit files for review'.**<br>

#### 5th screen: Open Claim Details > File Tab - Status Detail (submission state)

**Is this what you'd expect to see opon submission?**
Yes. Confirmation that it worked is always good! My expectation is as I scroll down there *Scroll* that it’s filed. So, yes. 

**Is there any particularly helpful pieces of information here?**

**“Anything unhelpful or could be improved?” - M** <br>
No, I don’t think so. 

### Post-Task Interview

**Do you have any other feedback to share with us today?** <br>
Uhm, no I think I just want to reiterate my point from earlier. When I knew I needed to submit supplemental and it had been about a year since the last time I dealt with the webpage, what I wanted to be able to do is do it online but I couldn’t figure it out so I faxed it to open my supplemental claim. If you can open a supplemental claim and drop files in and have the files together, I felt like I had to fax it in because I wanted an online option but couldn’t find it. 
