# Patient Check In Conversation Guide for Travel Reimbursement MVP Remote Usability Test - Prototype-Tasks for A & B, Starting with Prototype A

## Warm-Up Questions - 1 Minute

So, before we look at the website, let’s start with a few warm-up questions.

- What kind of device are you using for this session today? Call phone
- And what brand or operating system is it? iPhone
- Have you been to a VA health care facility for a medical appointment for yourself in the last 12 months? Yes
- Have you ever used your mobile device to check in for a medical appointment? Yes
- Have you ever filed or received payment for a travel reimbursement claim for a VA medical appointment? Yes

## Prototype-Tasks for A & B, Starting with Prototype A - 30 Minutes

### Prototype-Tasks

- I see mailing address; I was wondering if my name should be first but that’s just an idea. I see phone. I still think my name should be there but everything else makes sense. So I will keep going. I assume Barbara is the spouse. Maybe email but that wouldn’t make sense for emergency contact. Next of kin, I don’t understand next of kin maybe its for legal reasons. I guess it makes sense. I don’t know why spouse had brackets on the previous page and this one doesn’t. This all makes sense. 

*The participant should be on the page “Filing for travel reimbursement?” page.*

- (reading page) I have always filled after but now you can file 30 days prior. That makes sense. The new system is different, I like the old system better but it has taken months to get reimbursed at my va. what if I click no. 

How would you rate the difficulty of understanding the question you’re being asked on a scale from 1 to 5, where 1 is easy and 5 is difficult? It is easy, it’s a 1. 

Now, please tap “yes” to advance.

- Okay that makes sense. 

How would you rate the difficulty of understanding the question you’re being asked on a scale from 1 to 5, where 1 is easy and 5 is difficult? 2, I guess you can take a taxi, have tolls, take the bus. There are a lot of, the tolls can be a lot, I know in my area we have tolls so that’s fine. That’s why its difficult. 

Now, please tap “yes” to advance.

*The participant should be on the confirmation page.*

Again, on this page, as you’re reviewing, I would like you to talk aloud as much as possible so that you share what you’re thinking and what, if anything, you’re unsure about before. Please start reviewing.

- (reading page) this doesn’t make any sense. I just go to the waiting room, theres no forms to fill out. that would be great I guess. I get the travel reimbursement, I guess that makes sense. When you go to the waiting room I guess you just go and wait. I’m sure that will be fine. 

This is the last page of the check in experience. Could you tell me if this is what you expected to see? I was expecting to fill out forms but since you are checked in. Now what if I don’t show up for my appointment I won’t get travel claim I guess. 

Long travel form or check in: I guess checking in. Do people check in online, I just go right to the office. 

Is there anything unclear to you? No.

What would you like to change or add? Maybe directions to the clinic like the location inside the clinic where the office is located. It’s a nice to have. 

How would you rate how well this page met your expectations based on how you responded to the questions on the previous pages on a scale of 1 to 5, where 1 is does not meet your expectations and 5 is does meet your expectation? Well when did it come open, 24 hours before or 30 days before. This makes sense. 

And how would you rate the difficulty of understanding the information on this page on a scale of 1 to 5, where 1 is easy and 5 is difficult? 1, it’s easy. 

### Post-Task Questions

- Now, in thinking about all the pages you reviewed for checking in to an appointment, could you tell me if this is what you expected to see? Yeah I would say it is fine. It is what I expected. 
- Was there anything unclear to you? No I like it; it is just enough information. 
- Would you order anything differently? I would add the name, I expected the name but sometimes I see where sign in is your name is there. I want to confirm its me and not someone else. 
- What would you like to change or add? No I think its fine. 
- What are your thoughts on checking in for an appointment and filing for travel reimbursement at the same time? I like it, it is what I did before. I don’t know why it went away. 
- Do you recall when review of your travel reimbursement claim takes place? My claims are pending form months ago so I don’t know. Before covid there was a screen you would scan your card and file the claim and get paid. Now I don’t even understand what’s going on. This app is like what I had before at clinics, I don’t understand why I am doing it on my phone instead of at the clinics. 
- Would knowing that VA checks your eligibility for travel reimbursement after you complete checking in deter you (or stop you) from filing for travel reimbursement in the future? Why or why not? the only thing that would stop me is if I forgot. Its part of the process that you need to file it. the kiosk was nice because you could confirm the health insurance there to. I didn’t see that here. 

### Tasks for Alternative Path

*The participant should be on the confirmation page.*

Now, again, on this page, as you’re reviewing, I would like you to talk aloud as much as possible so that you share what you’re thinking and what, if anything, you’re unsure about before. Please start reviewing.

- I don’t like it, I would rather check in then have the option to file. I want to get my place. Ask the staff for a paper travel form, which doesn’t make sense because they send you to the travel office. I wouldn’t file online if I just said no. that’s just want I am thinking. 

So, again, this is the last page of the check in experience. Could you tell me if this is what you expected to see as a result of changing your answer to "no" to filing a travel reimbursement claim? Like you said if you do it in the waiting room this makes sense. 

How would you rate how well this page met your expectations based on how you responded to the questions on the previous pages on a scale of 1 to 5, where 1 is does not meet your expectations and 5 is does meet your expectation? 5. 

And how would you rate the difficulty of understanding the information on the page on a scale of 1 to 5, where 1 is easy and 5 is difficult? I can understand it, it’s a one. 

### Switch to Prototype B

*The participant should be on the “Are all of the following true?” page.*

Now, we’ve made some changes here compared to the first prototype. So, as you’re reviewing, I would like you to talk aloud as much as possible so that you share what you’re thinking and what, if anything, you’re unsure about before advancing to the next page. Please start reviewing, but remember, don’t advance to the next page yet.

- (reading page) I feel like the header should be swap with we may be able to submit your claim. Okay I understand this is fine.  I missed my 9:30 appointment. that’s confusing it started 10 minutes ago. whoever this is can get all of their appointments in one day, that never happens. This isnt the same thing I clicked on though. I feel like I clicked on a different appointment. 
 
### Post-Task Questions

- Did you think this prototype was any easier or more difficult to complete compared to the first prototype? Why or why not? This was more difficult; the wording was confusing. 
- Do you prefer one prototype over the other? Why or why not? the first one. 
- What differences, if any, did you notice in this prototype compared to the first one? Um, I felt like it was mostly the same but I skipped of some wording. 
- And, in this prototype compared to the first one, what are your thoughts on checking in for an appointment and filing for travel reimbursement at the same time?  I think it’s great, its fine. Yeah. 

## Closing - 2 Minutes

Great. Well, that is all the questions I have for you today. Is there anything else that we haven’t talked about that you’d like to share with me? I liked the kiosk method, if kiosks are going away and the software process for the kiosks just copy that over. I get it if you don’t want to maintain the kiosks. I guess most people have phones these days now

*Allow observers to leave.: did not allow observers to enter the session*
