# Patient Check In Conversation Guide for Travel Reimbursement MVP Remote Usability Test - Prototype-Tasks for A & B, Starting with Prototype B

## Intro - 5 Minutes

I have started recording. Once again, are you comfortable if I record this session today? Yes. 

## Warm-Up Questions - 1 Minute

- What kind of device are you using for this session today? iPhone
- And what brand or operating system is it? I think it’s the 11. 
- Have you been to a VA health care facility for a medical appointment for yourself in the last 12 months? Yes.
- Have you ever used your mobile device to check in for a medical appointment? Um, no other than doing the post covid questions. Other than that I haven’t joined a meeting on my phone. 
- Have you ever filed or received payment for a travel reimbursement claim for a VA medical appointment? Yes. 

## Prototype-Tasks for A & B, Starting with Prototype B - 30 Minutes

### Prototype-Tasks

Great. Now, for the next three pages, read the information and tap “yes” to advance once you’ve reviewed. And, as you’re reviewing these next three pages, please talk aloud so that you share what you’re thinking and what, if anything, you’re unsure about before advancing to the next page.

- (reading page) okay so that’s yes. 

*The participant should be on the page “Are all of the following true?” page.*

Now, on this page, as you’re reviewing, I would like you to talk aloud as much as possible so that you share what you’re thinking and what, if anything, you’re unsure about before advancing to the next page. Please start reviewing, but remember, don’t advance to the next page.

- (Reading page) should I click yes or wait. This is verifying where I came from for travel there.

How would you rate the difficulty of understanding the question you’re being asked on a scale from 1 to 5, where 1 is easy and 5 is difficult? 1. 

Why did you choose this rating? It is simple. black, and white English and I understand it. theres nothing difficult there. 

*The participant should be on the confirmation page.*

Again, on this page, as you’re reviewing, I would like you to talk aloud as much as possible so that you share what you’re thinking and what, if anything, you’re unsure about before. Please start reviewing.

- (reading page) That’s all understandable. 

This is the last page of the check in experience. Could you tell me if this is what you expected to see? Um, it’s kind of similar for what I do for check in at the facility. I would say it is what I expected, go to the waiting room and they’ll get you and they’ll let me know if the travel reimbursement is okay. 

Is there anything unclear to you? No, I guess the question where they send an update. Is that to the phone through the phone. It tells me I have an appointment and they’ll send an update about the reimbursement. I am not sure if its them letting me know if it went through or if I did something wrong. 

What would you like to change or add? No, everything else is very clear. 

How would you rate how well this page met your expectations based on how you responded to the questions on the previous pages on a scale of 1 to 5, where 1 is does not meet your expectations and 5 is does meet your expectation? 

Why did you choose this rating?

And how would you rate the difficulty of understanding the information on this page on a scale of 1 to 5, where 1 is easy and 5 is difficult? I would say a 5, it is pretty clear. I would say it’s a 1, its pretty easy. 

### Post-Task Questions

- Now, in thinking about all the pages you reviewed for checking in to an appointment, could you tell me if this is what you expected to see? Yes. Let me be clear this is at the place I am checking in for the appointment and does it apply for zoom medical meetings too. 
- Was there anything unclear to you? No. It pretty much mirrors what I see when I go to the kiosk at the va. 
- Would you order anything differently? No I don’t think so. 
- What are your thoughts on checking in for an appointment and filing for travel reimbursement at the same time?  That’s how I was doing it in the past and now I can do the same on the phone. I like doing it at the same time unless I am running late than I file for travel after. I like this allows me to do both, its good. 
- Do you recall when review of your travel reimbursement claim takes place? How many screens back was that. It was in the screen that they’ll get you from the waiting room. 
- When will it happen: I don’t recall reading that. 
- What, if anything, would you change or add to make it clearer? Um, nothing that I see here other than when it gets to the travel reimbursement. Will it ask if we are claiming for today or the last 30 days. that’s the only thing I didn’t see a question. On the kiosk when you check in you get directions to the room or submit for other days and then it prints me a receipt. Instead of it printing it out it will send me a message. 
- Would knowing that VA checks your eligibility for travel reimbursement after you complete checking in deter you (or stop you) from filing for travel reimbursement in the future? Why or why not? No because I am only claiming for things I am due so it wouldn’t deter me from answer those questions. 

### Tasks for Alternative Path

Now, again, on this page, as you’re reviewing, I would like you to talk aloud as much as possible so that you share what you’re thinking and what, if anything, you’re unsure about before. Please start reviewing.

- I am checked in and they cant file the claim. Why. Than they say they cant file it so I need to get a paper form which I have done as well and I have done it online so I would than ask a staff member for a form or ask how to do it online but I know how to do it so I wouldn’t need to ask. I understand it. I would not get confused but some guys might get confused on how to get the form. If I don’t need to ask them can I go back. I am not sure what its asking. Maybe there was an issues with the travel. I would than do that. 

Is there anything unclear to you? I guess it seems clear, it doesn’t tell you why the benefit didn’t go through and I imagine when it says ask the staff member they wont tell you why but give you the form. If I didn’t know how to do it online I would ask them how. I might be confused as to why it didn’t go through but if I follow through with eh questions it would go through. 

What would you like to change or add?

How would you rate how well this page met your expectations based on how you responded to the questions on the previous pages on a scale of 1 to 5, where 1 is does not meet your expectations and 5 is does meet your expectation? Um I would say a 5 but suppose I clicked no. you can’t really go back to change your answer. I am good with what it is saying than it gives me the option to go to another appointment. Does this mean for only appointments at this facility for today. If I only had one I wouldn’t need to click go to another appointment. 

And how would you rate the difficulty of understanding the information on the page on a scale of 1 to 5, where 1 is easy and 5 is difficult? Well, 1. 

### Switch to Prototype A

*The participant should be on the “Filing for travel reimbursement?” page.*

Now, on this page, as you’re reviewing, I would like you to talk aloud as much as possible so that you share what you’re thinking and what, if anything, you’re unsure about before advancing to the next page. Please start reviewing, but remember, don’t advance to the next page.

- I am checked in, I would click yes for travel. I understand it. it is clear. I can have them do it or telling me how to do it later. 

How would you rate the difficulty of understanding the question you’re being asked on a scale from 1 to 5, where 1 is easy and 5 is difficult? 1. 

Why did you choose this rating? Well I don’t know how it could be any easier. It is straight forward and no issues understanding it. 

Now, please tap “yes” to advance.

Again, on this page, as you’re reviewing, I would like you to talk aloud as much as possible so that you share what you’re thinking and what, if anything, you’re unsure about before advancing to the next page. Please begin reviewing.

- (reading page) I guess I haven’t answered these previously it for travel. So this is simple get me the travel reimbursement so just click yes. 

How would you rate the difficulty of understanding the question you’re being asked on a scale from 1 to 5, where 1 is easy and 5 is difficult? It’s a 1 again, its pretty simple. 

### Post-Task Questions

- Did you think this prototype was any easier or more difficult to complete compared to the first prototype? Why or why not? Hmm. I am trying to remember. It seems like it was easier to get to this one than on the first one. They were both easy. Since I asked them to do travel I would just have the question on how I would be updated, I guess by email. I think if I remember right, this second one was easier. It was easier or exactly the same. 
- Do you prefer one prototype over the other? Why or why not? Well again I would go with this one because it seemed easier. They are both easy but this one was easier. 
- What differences, if any, did you notice in this prototype compared to the first one? I don’t think so. If I knew it was coming I would have paid more attention. This one seemed easier but I went through alto of screens and questions. I think this was easier but I don’t remember the differences. It seemed like this was shorter. 
- And, in this prototype compared to the first one, what are your thoughts on checking in for an appointment and filing for travel reimbursement at the same time?  I prefer that, I like doing both at the same time. So this one had an extra box but I thought it was easier. The difference was the first time they didn’t give an option to submit for travel whereas this one it does. I think even though its an extra question I would have the option. I would like the option of saying if I want to file now or not. 

## Closing - 2 Minutes

Great. Well, that is all the questions I have for you today. Is there anything else that we haven’t talked about that you’d like to share with me? uh I don’t think so. Generally this is what’s similar to what’s on the kiosk. I know its so they can make sure tis correct, they ask you the same thing a few times. I guess that makes sense incase you pushed a wrong button. This is very familiar to the kiosk and I am familiar how to do it online and download my own form which can be the issue when you have so many appointments. I know on a different area of this, I would commend the va how quickly they get the reimbursement to you. Typically I see it within a few days. I know theres a lot of horror stories but I think they don’t know how to manure it and its surprising how many veterans don’t know they can get travel pay. One last question, with the recent gas prices have they changed the reimbursement prices. 

*Allow observers to leave.*

- Would you say that you were mostly nervous or mostly comfortable with having observers in this session? I was comfortable. I didn’t see them staring at me so I didn’t care. 
- Sometimes we have the additional observers already in the session when you join, instead of how we did it today. When I asked you for consent before the observers joined this session, did you appreciate that or did you feel that was mostly unnecessary? In my case it was unnecessary but I appreciate it because other guys may not want to answer questions in front of people they don’t see. It doesn’t matter to me but I think it’s a good idea that you ask so they don’t find out later that there were 10 others there while I was answering question. You get the same thing about this might be recorded, no one hangs up. I think it’s good and polite  that you ask for permission. 
- Thinking about the brief introductions with the observers, did that make you feel at ease with them listening in or did it feel more awkward? It didn’t matter to me. it may be more awkward. I don’t know why. It was unnecessary because it could take a while. 
