# Patient Check In Conversation Guide for Travel Reimbursement MVP Remote Usability Test - Prototype-Tasks for B & C, Starting with Prototype B

I have started recording. Once again, are you comfortable if I record this session today? Yes Sir I am. 

## Warm-Up Questions - 1 Minute

- What kind of device are you using for this session today? Yes a mobile iPhone. 
- Have you been to a VA health care facility for a medical appointment for yourself in the last 12 months? Yes sir
- Have you ever used your mobile device to check in for a medical appointment?  Never but I got an email when at primary care that said I can do my mobile check in for my next appointment. 
- Have you ever filed or received payment for a travel reimbursement claim for a VA medical appointment? Yes I do. 

## Prototype-Tasks for B & C, Starting with Prototype B - 30 Minutes

### Prototype-Tasks

Great. Now, for the next three pages, read the information and tap “yes” to advance once you’ve reviewed. And, as you’re reviewing these next three pages, please talk aloud so that you share what you’re thinking and what, if anything, you’re unsure about before advancing to the next page.

- (reading page) It is reading everything from beginning to end. 

*The participant should be on the page “Are all of the following true?” page.*

Now, on this page, as you’re reviewing, I would like you to talk aloud as much as possible so that you share what you’re thinking and what, if anything, you’re unsure about before advancing to the next page. Please start reviewing, but remember, don’t advance to the next page. 

- It gives me those questions. It had gotten down to the address again but its reading everything.

How would you rate the difficulty of understanding the question you’re being asked on a scale from 1 to 5, where 1 is easy and 5 is difficult? Oh it was easy, 1. 

In a real life situation, how much time do you think you would need to be able to answer this question on a scale of 1 to 5, where 1 is longer and 5 is quicker. It doesn’t take long to answer those questions. Not at all. 

*The participant should be on the confirmation page.*

Again, on this page, as you’re reviewing, I would like you to talk aloud as much as possible so that you share what you’re thinking and what, if anything, you’re unsure about before. Please start reviewing.

- it has me checked in, gives clinic and time. They’ll come get me when its time. 
This is the last page of the check in experience. Could you tell me if this is what you expected to see? Yes, I think it is good yeah. It is straight to the point. 

Is there anything unclear to you? No, it was easy for a blind lady it is accessible. Listening and following directions and following the screen. 

What would you like to change or add? Um no because like I said using voice over it put me everywhere. It reads everything and its quick so its quick to use. Not difficult. 

How would you rate how well this page met your expectations based on how you responded to the questions on the previous pages on a scale of 1 to 5, where 1 is does not meet your expectations and 5 is does meet your expectation? 5, it does meet the expectations. 

And how would you rate the difficulty of understanding the information on this page on a scale of 1 to 5, where 1 is easy and 5 is difficult? Um easy. 

### Post-Task Questions

- Now, in thinking about all the pages you reviewed for checking in to an appointment, could you tell me if this is what you expected to see? Yes. I did. 
- Was there anything unclear to you? No, everything was clear. 
- What would you like to change or add? No. Like I said it was straight to the point. The kiosk can be a hassle because I have to have someone read it to me. it doesn’t help those that are blind. You need someone to help but this way it increases independent living and its much easier. 

### Tasks for Alternative Path

*The participant should be on the confirmation page.*

Now, again, on this page, as you’re reviewing, I would like you to talk aloud as much as possible so that you share what you’re thinking and what, if anything, you’re unsure about before. Please start reviewing.

So, again, this is the last page of the check in experience. Could you tell me if this is what you expected to see as a result of changing your answer to "no" to filing a travel reimbursement claim? Yeah. 

Is there anything unclear to you? No not at all. 

What would you like to change or add?

How would you rate how well this page met your expectations based on how you responded to the questions on the previous pages on a scale of 1 to 5, where 1 is does not meet your expectations and 5 is does meet your expectation?  5

And how would you rate the difficulty of understanding the information on the page on a scale of 1 to 5, where 1 is easy and 5 is difficult? 1 it is easy.

### Switch to Prototype C

Great. Now, one more time, let’s tap “Continue” on this authentication page and answer “yes” to the next three questions, which will place you on the page leading with the question, “Is this statement true for you?” Please go there now.

*The participant should be on the “Is this statement true for you?” page.*

Now, we’ve made some changes here compared to the first prototype. So, as you’re reviewing, I would like you to talk aloud as much as possible so that you share what you’re thinking and what, if anything, you’re unsure about before advancing to the next page. Please start reviewing, but remember, don’t advance to the next page yet.

- okay go ahead

How would you rate the difficulty of understanding the question you’re being asked on a scale from 1 to 5, where 1 is easy and 5 is difficult? 1 it was easy. It is a direct question theres no confusion within the questions. 

In a real life situation, how much time do you think you would need to be able to answer this question on a scale of 1 to 5, where 1 is longer and 5 is quicker. Oh very short amount of time. 

Now, please tap “yes” to advance.

Same thing here, please start reviewing, but remember, don’t advance to the next page yet.

- They are saying address as it is spelled foreign

How would you rate the difficulty of understanding the question you’re being asked on a scale from 1 to 5, where 1 is easy and 5 is difficult? Easy. 

In a real life situation, how much time do you think you would need to be able to answer this question on a scale of 1 to 5, where 1 is longer and 5 is quicker: Short amount of time. 

### Post-Task Questions

- Do you prefer one prototype over the other? Why or why not? It all depends I think it would be better for it all to be on one page. You might have to keep scrolling. I would personally prefer it all on one page so I don’t need to click yes and answer yes on each page. Just have a series of questions on one page but if it is jumbled than I don’t know the one question at a time might be better because I am using voice over and have to listen to them talking. One question on a page is better. 

## Closing - 2 Minutes

Great. Well, that is all the questions I have for you today. Is there anything else that we haven’t talked about that you’d like to share with me? no not at all. I am glad technology is changing. As a veteran I appreciate you guys working to make it more accessible for more types of veterans not just for the ones that can see and hear. 

*Allow observers to leave. No observers joined the session.*
