# Patient Check In Conversation Guide for Travel Reimbursement MVP Remote Usability Test - Prototype-Tasks for B & C, Starting with Prototype C

I have started recording. Once again, are you comfortable if I record this session today? Yes. 

## Warm-Up Questions - 1 Minute
•	What kind of device are you using for this session today?  iPhone
•	what brand or operating system is it? I think it’s an 8. 
•	Have you been to a VA health care facility for a medical appointment for yourself in the last 12 months? Yes
•	Have you ever used your mobile device to check in for a medical appointment? Yes
•	Have you ever filed or received payment for a travel reimbursement claim for a VA medical appointment? Yes
Prototype-Tasks for B & C, Starting with Prototype C - 30 Minutes
The participant should be on the page “Is this statement true for you?” page.
Now, on this page, as you’re reviewing, I would like you to talk aloud as much as possible so that you share what you’re thinking and what, if anything, you’re unsure about before advancing to the next page. Please start reviewing, but remember, don’t advance to the next page.
- So the next of kin if it is incorrect I would correct it right here I take it. I understand the logistics of that so I think that’s fine. 
How would you rate the difficulty of understanding the question you’re being asked on a scale from 1 to 5, where 1 is easy and 5 is difficult? 1. 
Why did you choose this rating? I think it’s a basic question. 
In a real life situation, how much time do you think you would need to be able to answer this question on a scale of 1 to 5, where 1 is longer and 5 is quicker: 5. 
Same thing here, please start reviewing, but remember, don’t advance to the next page yet.
- (reading page) I believe that would be my home address so Yupp. 
How would you rate the difficulty of understanding the question you’re being asked on a scale from 1 to 5, where 1 is easy and 5 is difficult?  1
In a real life situation, how much time do you think you would need to be able to answer this question on a scale of 1 to 5, where 1 is longer and 5 is quicker: 5. 
Now, please tap “yes” to advance.
- Okay
How would you rate the difficulty of understanding the question you’re being asked on a scale from 1 to 5, where 1 is easy and 5 is difficult?  Um 1. 
In a real life situation, how much time do you think you would need to be able to answer this question on a scale of 1 to 5, where 1 is longer and 5 is quicker: 5. 
Now, please tap “no” to advance.
The participant should be on the confirmation page.
Again, on this page, as you’re reviewing, I would like you to talk aloud as much as possible so that you share what you’re thinking and what, if anything, you’re unsure about before. Please start reviewing.
- So I am checked in. (reading page) So I guess here I am checked in for my appointment. It doesn’t have a date on here it only has a time. Okay, alright. I just like a date. 
This is the last page of the check in experience. Could you tell me if this is what you expected to see? Um yeah it is very simple and I think it’s good. As far as who will send the update about the travel would be the question. It says we’ll but I take it travel is different people so I don’t like that terminology. 
Is there anything unclear to you? No, otherwise I think it’s good. 
What would you like to change or add? Nope I think it’s good. 
How would you rate how well this page met your expectations based on how you responded to the questions on the previous pages on a scale of 1 to 5, where 1 is does not meet your expectations and 5 is does meet your expectation? Um I would say a 4 on this page. 
And how would you rate the difficulty of understanding the information on this page on a scale of 1 to 5, where 1 is easy and 5 is difficult? Um well 2 because I don’t know who will get back to me about the travel. 
Post-Task Questions
•	Now, in thinking about all the pages you reviewed for checking in to an appointment, could you tell me if this is what you expected to see? Um yes I mean I think right now you just get messages and if you can tie travel to it by using other apps it would be great. Yeah. 
•	Was there anything unclear to you? No, I mean just the last page was a little unclear but otherwise it was good. 
Tasks for Alternative Path
Now, instead of tapping “yes” to this question, please tap “no.”
The participant should be on the confirmation page.
Now, again, on this page, as you’re reviewing, I would like you to talk aloud as much as possible so that you share what you’re thinking and what, if anything, you’re unsure about before. Please start reviewing.
-Okay. (Reading page) okay. 
So, again, this is the last page of the check in experience. Could you tell me if this is what you expected to see as a result of changing your answer to "no" to filing a travel reimbursement claim? Yeah I mean I obviously said I didn’t travel from my home address so yeah that’s what I would need a paper form or an online form. 
Is there anything unclear to you? No other than staff members don’t normally do anything travel. 
What would you like to change or add?
How would you rate how well this page met your expectations based on how you responded to the questions on the previous pages on a scale of 1 to 5, where 1 is does not meet your expectations and 5 is does meet your expectation? 5. 
How would you rate the difficulty of understanding the information on the page on a scale of 1 to 5, where 1 is easy and 5 is difficult? 1. 
Switch to Prototype B
The participant should be on the “Are all of the following true?” page.
Now, we’ve made some changes here compared to the first prototype. So, as you’re reviewing, I would like you to talk aloud as much as possible so that you share what you’re thinking and what, if anything, you’re unsure about before advancing to the next page. Please start reviewing, but remember, don’t advance to the next page yet.
- So you are saying I traveled in my own vehicle, from my address and no additional receipts like hotels. So yeah it is very clear. Hotel expenses aren’t normally reimbursed it would need preapproval so unless in big cities I don’t know why that is on there. Otherwise it is very clear. 
How would you rate the difficulty of understanding the question you’re being asked on a scale from 1 to 5, where 1 is easy and 5 is difficult? 1. 
In a real life situation, how much time do you think you would need to be able to answer this question on a scale of 1 to 5, where 1 is longer and 5 is quicker: 5
Post-Task Questions
•	Did you think this prototype was any easier or more difficult to complete compared to the first prototype? Why or why not? Um I would say it was the same. Both were easy. 
•	Do you prefer one prototype over the other? Why or why not? Well yeah I mean just visually I like it separate rather than all together. 
•	What differences, if any, did you notice in this prototype compared to the first one? More concise infomration on the page on this one where you had to verify the three questions right there. 
Closing - 2 Minutes
Great. Well, that is all the questions I have for you today. Is there anything else that we haven’t talked about that you’d like to share with me? No I think it’s great that you are doing this. 
Allow observers to leave: No  observers joined

