# Patient Check In Conversation Guide for Travel Reimbursement MVP Remote Usability Test - Prototype-Tasks for A & B, Starting with Prototype B

## Intro - 5 Minutes

I have started recording. Once again, are you comfortable if I record this session today? Yes sir.

## Warm-Up Questions - 1 Minute

So, before we look at the website, let’s start with a few warm-up questions.

- What kind of device are you using for this session today? iPhone
- What brand or operating system is it? It is iPhone 13 Pro. The largest one. 
- Have you been to a VA health care facility for a medical appointment for yourself in the last 12 months? Yes sir. 
- Have you ever used your mobile device to check in for a medical appointment? Yes
- Have you ever filed or received payment for a travel reimbursement claim for a VA medical appointment? Yes sir. 

## Prototype-Tasks for A & B, Starting with Prototype B - 30 Minutes

*The participant should be on the page “Are all of the following true?” page.*

Now, on this page, as you’re reviewing, I would like you to talk aloud as much as possible so that you share what you’re thinking and what, if anything, you’re unsure about before advancing to the next page. Please start reviewing, but remember, don’t advance to the next page.

- (Reading page) I assume that’s my home address. Okay that makes sense. 

How would you rate the difficulty of understanding the question you’re being asked on a scale from 1 to 5, where 1 is easy and 5 is difficult? I would say easy, it is pretty clear cut. 

*The participant should be on the confirmation page.*

Again, on this page, as you’re reviewing, I would like you to talk aloud as much as possible so that you share what you’re thinking and what, if anything, you’re unsure about before. Please start reviewing.

- (reading page) okay. 

This is the last page of the check in experience. Could you tell me if this is what you expected to see? Uh I don’t know why it meant your checked in and reviewing the travel claim. Normally I do I do the travel claim after but I didn’t have other expectations other than that. That’s the process I do on access VA that’s how it is done in my experience. 

Is there anything unclear to you? No

What would you like to change or add? No not that I can think of

How would you rate how well this page met your expectations based on how you responded to the questions on the previous pages on a scale of 1 to 5, where 1 is does not meet your expectations and 5 is does meet your expectation? I think it would be 5. 

And how would you rate the difficulty of understanding the information on this page on a scale of 1 to 5, where 1 is easy and 5 is difficult? I would say it’s a 1, easy to understand. 

### Post-Task Questions

- Now, in thinking about all the pages you reviewed for checking in to an appointment, could you tell me if this is what you expected to see? No I mean I would have thought it was harder knowing the VA.
- Was there anything unclear to you? No sir.
- Would you order anything differently? No the flow seemed to be good. 
- What would you like to change or add? Uh maybe I don’t know if I am ahead of it but reviewing the travel  claim, typically it shows the amount they plan to reimburse. For me I use communicate care and the amounts are different depending on locations. So maybe trying to add the proposed amount. 
- Community care check in not available: ahh makes sense. 
- If you went to a va facility using this, do you expect the va or community care amount: that would be nice to have a difference between the two. 
- What are your thoughts on checking in for an appointment and filing for travel reimbursement at the same time? I think its amazing because theres nothing close to it as far as I know right now. 
- Do you recall when review of your travel reimbursement claim takes place? Um I just recall it says we’re reviewing it; it was at the final page. I don’t remember anything else besides the we will send an update on the travel reimbursement. 
- Would knowing that VA checks your eligibility for travel reimbursement after you complete checking in deter you (or stop you) from filing for travel reimbursement in the future? Why or why not? No sir. 

### Tasks for Alternative Path

*The participant should be on the confirmation page.*

Now, again, on this page, as you’re reviewing, I would like you to talk aloud as much as possible so that you share what you’re thinking and what, if anything, you’re unsure about before. Please start reviewing.

So, again, this is the last page of the check in experience. Could you tell me if this is what you expected to see as a result of changing your answer to "no" to filing a travel reimbursement claim? Yes this makes sense. 

Is there anything unclear to you? Uh no sir. 

What would you like to change or add? No not that I can think of. If the hyperlink works on how to file online that’s what I would look for to process the travel claim. 

If you were in a waiting room waiting to be called back, would you start the process: I would try to do it now. 

And how would you rate the difficulty of understanding the information on the page on a scale of 1 to 5, where 1 is easy and 5 is difficult? Very easy, 1.

### Switch to Prototype A

*The participant should be on the “Filing for travel reimbursement?” page.*

Now, on this page, as you’re reviewing, I would like you to talk aloud as much as possible so that you share what you’re thinking and what, if anything, you’re unsure about before advancing to the next page. Please start reviewing, but remember, don’t advance to the next page.

How would you rate the difficulty of understanding the question you’re being asked on a scale from 1 to 5, where 1 is easy and 5 is difficult? Its very easy, 1. 

Now, please tap “yes” to advance.

Again, on this page, as you’re reviewing, I would like you to talk aloud as much as possible so that you share what you’re thinking and what, if anything, you’re unsure about before advancing to the next page. Please begin reviewing.

- (reading page) Okay. 

How would you rate the difficulty of understanding the question you’re being asked on a scale from 1 to 5, where 1 is easy and 5 is difficult? Easy. I don’t know if I mentioned this on file receipts I have never had to file a hotel expense. I have only ever done mileage personally so I wouldn’t be familiar with other expenses other than travel. I guess there may be cases where you stay at a hotel the night before. Other than that it seems clear to me. 1, it is easy. 

### Post-Task Questions

- Did you think this prototype was any easier or more difficult to complete compared to the first prototype? Why or why not? Um I know it includes another step but just knowing that some of my veterans friends would think this one is easier because theres a blurb at the front to file for travel increase of travel and check in. I guess that could lead to it being easier from an expectation standpoint. 
- Do you prefer one prototype over the other? Why or why not? Yeah I would actually because its not grey and then getting to the other page. I would like the second on as well. 
- What differences, if any, did you notice in this prototype compared to the first one?  Not that I can recall. I knew the additional toggle but everything flowed the same. 
- And, in this prototype compared to the first one, what are your thoughts on checking in for an appointment and filing for travel reimbursement at the same time?  I like this one as well. That extra toggle made this one a little bit better. 

## Closing - 2 Minutes

Great. Well, that is all the questions I have for you today. Is there anything else that we haven’t talked about that you’d like to share with me? No, I mean the sooner you can implement this and take away access VA. I am not sure they can make it harder than that site so. 

*Allow observers to leave.*

- Would you say that you were mostly nervous or mostly comfortable with having observers in this session? I was comfortable, it didn’t bother me. 
- Sometimes we have the additional observers already in the session when you join, instead of how we did it today. When I asked you for consent before the observers joined this session, did you appreciate that or did you feel that was mostly unnecessary? I appreciated it, it validated what I already agreed to. 
- Thinking about the brief introductions with the observers, did that make you feel at ease with them listening in or did it feel more awkward? I don’t have a preference. It was fine I didn’t have an issue with it. 
