# Patient Check In Conversation Guide for Travel Reimbursement MVP Remote Usability Test - Prototype-Tasks for B & C, Starting with Prototype B

I have started recording. Once again, are you comfortable if I record this session today? Yes

## Warm-Up Questions - 1 Minute

So, before we look at the website, let’s start with a few warm-up questions.

- What kind of device are you using for this session today? iPhone
- what brand or operating system is it? 8+
- Have you been to a VA health care facility for a medical appointment for yourself in the last 12 months? Yes
- Have you ever used your mobile device to check in for a medical appointment? No I have not they don’t have it up and running. They used to have kiosks but since covid they just have the regular desk for check in. 
- Have you ever filed or received payment for a travel reimbursement claim for a VA medical appointment? Yes I have. 

## Prototype-Tasks for B & C, Starting with Prototype B - 30 Minutes

*The participant should be on the page “Are all of the following true?” page.*

Now, on this page, as you’re reviewing, I would like you to talk aloud as much as possible so that you share what you’re thinking and what, if anything, you’re unsure about before advancing to the next page. Please start reviewing, but remember, don’t advance to the next page.

- So the first one if you took Marta the first part would be no. What if I had a neighbor take me would that still be my own vehicle. Me personally, I take my own vehicle but I know people that have others drive them. Okay, I would say yes on this one. 

How would you rate the difficulty of understanding the question you’re being asked on a scale from 1 to 5, where 1 is easy and 5 is difficult? It was easy to understand without the exception of the rules of someone else driving you. 

In a real life situation, how much time do you think you would need to be able to answer this question on a scale of 1 to 5, where 1 is longer and 5 is quicker: 5

*The participant should be on the confirmation page.*

Again, on this page, as you’re reviewing, I would like you to talk aloud as much as possible so that you share what you’re thinking and what, if anything, you’re unsure about before. Please start reviewing.

- (reading page) It looks like from here it’s a travel claim for one appointment and I can go to another appointment. 

This is the last page of the check in experience. Could you tell me if this is what you expected to see? Um yes that’s great because it has the time and location of the appointments and I like that it tells you they will come get you and an added bonus of travel updates. I haven’t been able to submit travel online so I need to do paper and I just have to guess it was approved. 

Is there anything unclear to you? No not at all

What would you like to change or add? A  note that if it’s been more than 15 minutes to see someone at the desk

How would you rate how well this page met your expectations based on how you responded to the questions on the previous pages on a scale of 1 to 5, where 1 is does not meet your expectations and 5 is does meet your expectation? 5

And how would you rate the difficulty of understanding the information on this page on a scale of 1 to 5, where 1 is easy and 5 is difficult? 1

### Post-Task Questions

- Now, in thinking about all the pages you reviewed for checking in to an appointment, could you tell me if this is what you expected to see? I think it is better than waiting on people behind the desk and relaying on them and I have seen people come in for more than one appointment
- Was there anything unclear to you? No 
- What would you like to change or add? Nope. 

### Tasks for Alternative Path

*The participant should be on the confirmation page.*

Now, again, on this page, as you’re reviewing, I would like you to talk aloud as much as possible so that you share what you’re thinking and what, if anything, you’re unsure about before. Please start reviewing.

- cant file the travel claim and it’s a different color with an ! and to get the paper form because I can’t do it online so I like that. 

So, again, this is the last page of the check in experience. Could you tell me if this is what you expected to see as a result of changing your answer to "no" to filing a travel reimbursement claim? Yes because I like that it’s a different color. It draws my eyes to it and it tells me theres an issue. It stops you right there. 

Is there anything unclear to you? No nothing. 

What would you like to change or add? Um no I think it is clear enough as it is. Even if you click how to file online it should take you to another page because it is underlined. 

Might not try online: I would try again to see if it is working. It says if I use safari I might have issues. I cant see it as well on my phone so when using my computer I am using safari so I am just waiting for it to be fixed. 

How would you rate how well this page met your expectations based on how you responded to the questions on the previous pages on a scale of 1 to 5, where 1 is does not meet your expectations and 5 is does meet your expectation?  5. 

And how would you rate the difficulty of understanding the information on the page on a scale of 1 to 5, where 1 is easy and 5 is difficult? 1 

You might want to add the 15 minute thing on this page to. 

### Switch to Prototype C

*The participant should be on the “Is this statement true for you?” page.*

Now, we’ve made some changes here compared to the first prototype. So, as you’re reviewing, I would like you to talk aloud as much as possible so that you share what you’re thinking and what, if anything, you’re unsure about before advancing to the next page. Please start reviewing, but remember, don’t advance to the next page yet.

- this seems more concise with only 1 question to answer which would make it better for older veterans. (reading page) I like that. 

How would you rate the difficulty of understanding the question you’re being asked on a scale from 1 to 5, where 1 is easy and 5 is difficult? 1. 

In a real life situation, how much time do you think you would need to be able to answer this question on a scale of 1 to 5, where 1 is longer and 5 is quicker: even quicker than the other one. A 5. For older veterans this would be much better. 

Now, please tap “yes” to advance.

- Simple and straightforward I like that

How would you rate the difficulty of understanding the question you’re being asked on a scale from 1 to 5, where 1 is easy and 5 is difficult? 1. 

In a real life situation, how much time do you think you would need to be able to answer this question on a scale of 1 to 5, where 1 is longer and 5 is quicker: 5, very short amount of time.  

Now, please tap “yes” to advance.

- Typically the answer is no because theres no parking or anything. 

How would you rate the difficulty of understanding the question you’re being asked on a scale from 1 to 5, where 1 is easy and 5 is difficult? Easy 1. 

In a real life situation, how much time do you think you would need to be able to answer this question on a scale of 1 to 5, where 1 is longer and 5 is quicker: obviously a short amount of time because I went and answered it. 

The check in is for 1pm, what if I wanted to check in to the other ones. The middle one I checked in for. Oh now I see it I didn’t scroll down far enough. 

### Post-Task Questions

- Did you think this prototype was any easier or more difficult to complete compared to the first prototype? Why or why not? It was much more concise I like this one and I think older veterans would be able to navigate this one easier. 
- Do you prefer one prototype over the other? Why or why not? this one. 
- What differences, if any, did you notice in this prototype compared to the first one? This one was shorter and much easier to fill out. it seemed like it is  tailored to those that travel in their own vehicles and I like the check in party and if you have more than one appointment in a day than I like it. you can check in to all of them and see all of them. At the desk it is one at a time whereas online you can see it on a list. 

## Closing - 2 Minutes

Great. Well, that is all the questions I have for you today. Is there anything else that we haven’t talked about that you’d like to share with me? no other than getting safari fixed. I am looking forward to when you have one long. 

*Allow observers to leave*

- Would you say that you were mostly nervous or mostly comfortable with having observers in this session? I am comfortable because as a teacher we have observers and in the military we learn with others. Being asked is good, if an observer just pops in that would be uncomfortable but being asked is nice. 
- Thinking about the brief introductions with the observers, did that make you feel at ease with them listening in or did it feel more awkward? My more comfortable. Seeing a face makes it easier. A blind observer is good and when you see their face and they are friendly that makes it easier. 
