# Patient Check In Conversation Guide for Travel Reimbursement MVP Remote Usability Test - Prototype-Tasks for A & B, Starting with Prototype A

## Intro - 5 Minutes

I have started recording. Once again, are you comfortable if I record this session today? Yes

## Warm-Up Questions - 1 Minute

So, before we look at the website, let’s start with a few warm-up questions.

- What kind of device are you using for this session today: An iPhone 13
- Have you been to a VA health care facility for a medical appointment for yourself in the last 12 months? Yes
- Have you ever used your mobile device to check in for a medical appointment? Yes
- Have you ever filed or received payment for a travel reimbursement claim for a VA medical appointment? Yes

## Prototype-Tasks for A & B, Starting with Prototype A - 30 Minutes

*The participant should be on the page “Filing for travel reimbursement?” page.*

Now, on this page, as you’re reviewing, I would like you to talk aloud as much as possible so that you share what you’re thinking and what, if anything, you’re unsure about before advancing to the next page. Please start reviewing, but remember, don’t advance to the next page.

- it says they may be able to submit it for review, how do I know if they will or wont. Yes I want to file but why am I doing this process if they can’t file the claim today. What’s the criteria for them not to be able to do that. 

How would you rate the difficulty of understanding the question you’re being asked on a scale from 1 to 5, where 1 is easy and 5 is difficult? 3. 

Now, please tap “yes” to advance.

Again, on this page, as you’re reviewing, I would like you to talk aloud as much as possible so that you share what you’re thinking and what, if anything, you’re unsure about before advancing to the next page. Please begin reviewing.

- it is a bit redundant. If all are true than if all statements are true select yes. just put if all three are true please select yes. Other than that it’s fine. 

How would you rate the difficulty of understanding the question you’re being asked on a scale from 1 to 5, where 1 is easy and 5 is difficult? A 2 outside of the redundancy 

*The participant should be on the confirmation page.*

Again, on this page, as you’re reviewing, I would like you to talk aloud as much as possible so that you share what you’re thinking and what, if anything, you’re unsure about before. Please start reviewing.

- This is the check in and travel process. I don’t think it was clear at the beginning of the process that you were doing them both at the same time. 

This is the last page of the check in experience. Could you tell me if this is what you expected to see?  So again previously it said they may be able to submit the travel claim. It says reviewing, how do I know. You’ll send me an update but where to. 

What would you like to change or add? No. 

How would you rate how well this page met your expectations based on how you responded to the questions on the previous pages on a scale of 1 to 5, where 1 is does not meet your expectations and 5 is does meet your expectation?  1

And how would you rate the difficulty of understanding the information on this page on a scale of 1 to 5, where 1 is easy and 5 is difficult? 5 because which process are we doing right now. 

### Post-Task Questions

- Now, in thinking about all the pages you reviewed for checking in to an appointment, could you tell me if this is what you expected to see? More infomration about the steps and what happens after the review process. it is not providing real information. 
- Would you order anything differently? I wouldn’t order it I would just communicate it differently like checked in and travel claim, you need to let us know that we are doing both. Than travel claim and travel reimbursement isnt consistent across the pages. 
- What are your thoughts on checking in for an appointment and filing for travel reimbursement at the same time? We went through 4-5 different screens, if I were at a medical center doing this it would be daunting when I can just go check in. If it were fewer steps and clearly communicating the process it would be better. Maybe an older veteran would need a larger screen or comprehensive ability it wouldn’t be an easy process and would not use it. 
- Would knowing that VA checks your eligibility for travel reimbursement after you complete checking in deter you (or stop you) from filing for travel reimbursement in the future? Why or why not?  Yes. 

### Tasks for Alternative Path

*The participant should be on the confirmation page.*

Now, again, on this page, as you’re reviewing, I would like you to talk aloud as much as possible so that you share what you’re thinking and what, if anything, you’re unsure about before. Please start reviewing.

- Before I got here. So am I asking someone or clicking there to learn how to file online. 

So, again, this is the last page of the check in experience. Could you tell me if this is what you expected to see as a result of changing your answer to "no" to filing a travel reimbursement claim? Nope. 

Is there anything unclear to you? Only thing unclear is am I asking the staff for a paper copy or asking them how to file online. Everything directs back to asking a staff member for help. So if I am asking them for help than I don’t need this app because I have to talk to them anyways. 

How would you rate how well this page met your expectations based on how you responded to the questions on the previous pages on a scale of 1 to 5, where 1 is does not meet your expectations and 5 is does meet your expectation?  4. 

And how would you rate the difficulty of understanding the information on the page on a scale of 1 to 5, where 1 is easy and 5 is difficult? 3. 

### Switch to Prototype B

Great. Now, one more time, let’s tap “Continue” on this authentication page and answer “yes” to the next three questions, which will place you on the page leading with the question, “Are all of the following true?” Please go there now.

- The redundancy is there and we may be able to submit the claim for review. Again ask a staff member if you need help. For me I need to know if they are able to submit it for review and it looks like I am only filing for a claim right now. Maybe I will be able to file it or maybe I won’t, I don’t know. I don’t know the process and I would just go ask a staff member. 

How would you rate the difficulty of understanding the question you’re being asked on a scale from 1 to 5, where 1 is easy and 5 is difficult? About a 3. 

### Post-Task Questions

- Did you think this prototype was any easier or more difficult to complete compared to the first prototype? Why or why not? I think it was about the same. 
- Do you prefer one prototype over the other? Why or why not? I didn’t prefer one or the other, it’s the same. 
- What differences, if any, did you notice in this prototype compared to the first one? No
- And, in this prototype compared to the first one, what are your thoughts on checking in for an appointment and filing for travel reimbursement at the same time?  I think it would be great if it were clear that’s what was happening across the process. 

## Closing - 2 Minutes

Great. Well, that is all the questions I have for you today. Is there anything else that we haven’t talked about that you’d like to share with me? Nope that was all. I appreciate the effort and time you are giving to us for this process. 

*Allow observers to leave.*

- Would you say that you were mostly nervous or mostly comfortable with having observers in this session? Mostly comfortable. 
- Sometimes we have the additional observers already in the session when you join, instead of how we did it today. When I asked you for consent before the observers joined this session, did you appreciate that or did you feel that was mostly unnecessary? unnecessary  because I gave consent when I signed up for today
- Thinking about the brief introductions with the observers, did that make you feel at ease with them listening in or did it feel more awkward? It was a bit awkward because it wasn’t a real introduction. 

Great. Well, thank you for your feedback and thank you again so much for joining us today.

Have a great rest of your day.
