# Patient Check In Conversation Guide for Travel Reimbursement MVP Remote Usability Test - Prototype-Tasks for A & B, Starting with Prototype B

## Intro - 5 Minutes

I have started recording. Once again, are you comfortable if I record this session today? Yes

## Warm-Up Questions - 1 Minute

So, before we look at the website, let’s start with a few warm-up questions.

- What kind of device are you using for this session today? I am on my laptop. 
- And what brand or operating system is it? PC
- Have you been to a VA health care facility for a medical appointment for yourself in the last 12 months? Unfortunately yes. 
- Have you ever used your mobile device to check in for a medical appointment? No
- Have you ever filed or received payment for a travel reimbursement claim for a VA medical appointment? Yes

## Prototype-Tasks for A & B, Starting with Prototype B - 30 Minutes

Now, on this page, as you’re reviewing, I would like you to talk aloud as much as possible so that you share what you’re thinking and what, if anything, you’re unsure about before advancing to the next page. Please start reviewing, but remember, don’t advance to the next page.

- So my question is that not every veteran is eligible for reimbursement. Is there a distinction for that. I am eligible and I file claims but not everyone is eligible for it. 

Seeing this is surprising, expect something else: Yeah I mean if it’s a statement if you are eligible for travel reimbursement and then clicking yes than coming here. 

How would you rate the difficulty of understanding the question you’re being asked on a scale from 1 to 5, where 1 is easy and 5 is difficult? 1 it is very easy to understand. 

*The participant should be on the confirmation page.*

Again, on this page, as you’re reviewing, I would like you to talk aloud as much as possible so that you share what you’re thinking and what, if anything, you’re unsure about before. Please start reviewing.

-I mean it is pretty basic and has all of the infomraiton in there. 

This is the last page of the check in experience. Could you tell me if this is what you expected to see? I mean I don’t think it needs to be very long if you are checking in and need to click a few options. One concern I have is that I go to the phoenix va and their Wi-Fi isnt good so I cant get on my phone when there. I am sure there are other locations with the same issue and some without issues. Where the va is located it is in an older area and very congested and is very difficult to get on Wi-Fi there. 

Is there anything unclear to you? No. 

How would you rate how well this page met your expectations based on how you responded to the questions on the previous pages on a scale of 1 to 5, where 1 is does not meet your expectations and 5 is does meet your expectation? 5

And how would you rate the difficulty of understanding the information on this page on a scale of 1 to 5, where 1 is easy and 5 is difficult? 1 it is easy to understand. 

### Post-Task Questions

- Now, in thinking about all the pages you reviewed for checking in to an appointment, could you tell me if this is what you expected to see? No but it is streamlining everything. Only thing that is a bit different, I typically use the kiosk and it asks the covid screening questions so I would expect if that were something that was still required that it would be on here as well. 
- Would you order anything differently? No
- What are your thoughts on checking in for an appointment and filing for travel reimbursement at the same time? It is convenient and saves a lot of time as far as how it is processed. I like it, I like the fact that appointments are links and you click a button or two than you are done. 
- Do you recall when review of your travel reimbursement claim takes place? No
- Would knowing that VA checks your eligibility for travel reimbursement after you complete checking in deter you (or stop you) from filing for travel reimbursement in the future? No because I know I am authorized for it. 

### Tasks for Alternative Path

So, again, this is the last page of the check in experience. Could you tell me if this is what you expected to see as a result of changing your answer to "no" to filing a travel reimbursement claim?  Um I would say yes. 

Is there anything unclear to you? I am just thinking about the age of some of the veterans. They are uncomfortable using technology and still use paper. I know the VA in Phoenix does not accept paper forms at all. I have talked to serval older veterans and they aren’t happy with it because they don’t have a computer or don’t know how to use it and must wait for their child or grandchild to help them. I may be mistaken maybe they have a caregiver that handles this type of thing for them. I don’t know, when you ask me this I am not technology efficient either but I can follow the prompts and figure it out. I think of the older veterans that aren’t comfortable with technology. How to file online when you go on the website you have the search for it, it is not easy. I have had to do it and it was frustrating. There was so much information and I understand they want it standard with the same look and font. It took me awhile to figure it out. 

How would you rate how well this page met your expectations based on how you responded to the questions on the previous pages on a scale of 1 to 5, where 1 is does not meet your expectations and 5 is does meet your expectation? I would say 5, it is pretty clear. 

And how would you rate the difficulty of understanding the information on the page on a scale of 1 to 5, where 1 is easy and 5 is difficult? 1 it is easy to understand. 

### Switch to Prototype A

*The participant should be on the “Filing for travel reimbursement?” page.*

Now, on this page, as you’re reviewing, I would like you to talk aloud as much as possible so that you share what you’re thinking and what, if anything, you’re unsure about before advancing to the next page. Please start reviewing, but remember, don’t advance to the next page.

- okay. 

How would you rate the difficulty of understanding the question you’re being asked on a scale from 1 to 5, where 1 is easy and 5 is difficult? 1, it is easy for me to understand. 

Now, please tap “yes” to advance.

Again, on this page, as you’re reviewing, I would like you to talk aloud as much as possible so that you share what you’re thinking and what, if anything, you’re unsure about before advancing to the next page. Please begin reviewing.

- Okay. 

How would you rate the difficulty of understanding the question you’re being asked on a scale from 1 to 5, where 1 is easy and 5 is difficult?

### Post-Task Questions

- Did you think this prototype was any easier or more difficult to complete compared to the first prototype? Why or why not? Um I think it has more infomration especially on the previous screen about filing a claim. 
- Do you prefer one prototype over the other? Why or why not? I would say this one. 
- What differences, if any, did you notice in this prototype compared to the first one? Um is there a way for me to go back. I was just thinking on this one I thought I saw something different. There was just something different about the second one. Even if you put something like unsure if you are eligible for travel reimbursement click here. I have been reading a lot of articles about fraudulent  claims. Some of the older generation don’t intentionally do it but if there was something that says if you are unsure click here and then have it explain who can get travel reimbursement. Yes this is the part. I don’t know if you want to put it up here I think maybe underneath to say if you are unsure if you are authorized for travel reimbursement click here than have a short explanation. 
- And, in this prototype compared to the first one, what are your thoughts on checking in for an appointment and filing for travel reimbursement at the same time?   I think it is fantastic. 

## Closing - 2 Minutes

Great. Well, that is all the questions I have for you today. Is there anything else that we haven’t talked about that you’d like to share with me? I don’t believe so. 

*Allow observers to leave.*

- Would you say that you were mostly nervous or mostly comfortable with having observers in this session? Comfortable 
- Sometimes we have the additional observers already in the session when you join, instead of how we did it today. When I asked you for consent before the observers joined this session, did you appreciate that or did you feel that was mostly unnecessary? I appreciated it but for me I have done these before so I anticipate having others in the session. 
- Thinking about the brief introductions with the observers, did that make you feel at ease with them listening in or did it feel more awkward? It was perfectly fine. 
