# Patient Check In Conversation Guide for Travel Reimbursement MVP Remote Usability Test - Prototype-Tasks for B & C, Starting with Prototype B

I have started recording. Once again, are you comfortable if I record this session today? Yes
Warm-Up Questions - 1 Minute
So, before we look at the website, let’s start with a few warm-up questions.
•	What kind of device are you using for this session today? iPhone 13 Pro Max
•	Have you been to a VA health care facility for a medical appointment for yourself in the last 12 months? I have
•	Have you ever used your mobile device to check in for a medical appointment? No I can’t say I have
•	Have you ever filed or received payment for a travel reimbursement claim for a VA medical appointment? Yes. A while ago. 
Prototype-Tasks for B & C, Starting with Prototype B - 30 Minutes
The participant should be on the page “Are all of the following true?” page.
Now, on this page, as you’re reviewing, I would like you to talk aloud as much as possible so that you share what you’re thinking and what, if anything, you’re unsure about before advancing to the next page. Please start reviewing, but remember, don’t advance to the next page.
- (reading page) All three statements seem to be clear and in bold type indicates that all three statements need to be true if I were to click yes. This should be pretty clear as to if I need to click yes or no. 
How would you rate the difficulty of understanding the question you’re being asked on a scale from 1 to 5, where 1 is easy and 5 is difficult? It seems to be quiet clear and easy to understand. 
In a real life situation, how much time do you think you would need to be able to answer this question on a scale of 1 to 5, where 1 is longer and 5 is quicker: 4. 
Now, please tap “yes” to advance.
On this page, read the information and tap “check in now” for either appointment to advance once you’ve reviewed.
The participant should be on the confirmation page.
Again, on this page, as you’re reviewing, I would like you to talk aloud as much as possible so that you share what you’re thinking and what, if anything, you’re unsure about before. Please start reviewing
- Um appointment infomraiton is in its own section with time and clinic name and a few highlighted boxes with directions. Seems to be clear and the option for a hyperlink if they are at the wrong appointment or chosen the wrong one to go bac k to the previous page. It’s  pretty clear on this page. 
This is the last page of the check in experience. Could you tell me if this is what you expected to see? yeah I believe so. Other than the clinic name and time, that’s all the information I would really need when comparing this to when I check in at the desk for the clinic. It seems to be equivalent infomraiton either on the phone or done with a grumpy admin. 
Is there anything unclear to you? Nope, nothing unclear. 
What would you like to change or add? Um, I don’t think so to be honest with you I am not familiar with travel reimbursement I just kind of found it to be a headache to stop at the office and I live 16 miles away. Maybe this is automating the travel claim process but I cant think of any further infomration. Thinking about maybe the second highlight point if you all would feel like another sentence wouldn’t need to be needed to say it is replacing the need to stop at the travel office. that’s all that crosses my mind. 
How would you rate how well this page met your expectations based on how you responded to the questions on the previous pages on a scale of 1 to 5, where 1 is does not meet your expectations and 5 is does meet your expectation? 5
And how would you rate the difficulty of understanding the information on this page on a scale of 1 to 5, where 1 is easy and 5 is difficult?  I would say it’s a 1. 
Post-Task Questions
•	Now, in thinking about all the pages you reviewed for checking in to an appointment, could you tell me if this is what you expected to see? Pretty much yeah in conjunction with eh previous pages to confirm addresses and emergency contact, next of kin. It seems to be all of the information I am asked for when I go to the appointment. 
•	Was there anything unclear to you?
•	What would you like to change or add? Nothing comes to mind other than what I mention about the second bullet point. Nothing else makes me think of anything. 
Tasks for Alternative Path
The participant should be on the confirmation page.
Now, again, on this page, as you’re reviewing, I would like you to talk aloud as much as possible so that you share what you’re thinking and what, if anything, you’re unsure about before. Please start reviewing.
- it seems like the fact that I said no to previous infomraiton being correct it triggered notification in the second box for a paper link or to file online using the hyperlink so I can click on that for instructions or deal with a staff member.
So, again, this is the last page of the check in experience. Could you tell me if this is what you expected to see as a result of changing your answer to "no" to filing a travel reimbursement claim? Yes
Is there anything unclear to you? No
What would you like to change or add? No
How would you rate how well this page met your expectations based on how you responded to the questions on the previous pages on a scale of 1 to 5, where 1 is does not meet your expectations and 5 is does meet your expectation? 5 
And how would you rate the difficulty of understanding the information on the page on a scale of 1 to 5, where 1 is easy and 5 is difficult? I would call this a 1
Switch to Prototype C
The participant should be on the “Is this statement true for you?” page.
Now, we’ve made some changes here compared to the first prototype. So, as you’re reviewing, I would like you to talk aloud as much as possible so that you share what you’re thinking and what, if anything, you’re unsure about before advancing to the next page. Please start reviewing, but remember, don’t advance to the next page yet.
- okay bold letters asking me a question (reading page). It is clear for me what the question is and then the highlighted box which says (Reading page) then the yes or no boxes. 
How would you rate the difficulty of understanding the question you’re being asked on a scale from 1 to 5, where 1 is easy and 5 is difficult? It’s a 1
In a real life situation, how much time do you think you would need to be able to answer this question on a scale of 1 to 5, where 1 is longer and 5 is quicker: 5
Now, please tap “yes” to advance.
Same thing here, please start reviewing, but remember, don’t advance to the next page yet.
- again bold letters used for the question, that’s my home address for this exercise. Than a highlighted box for travel. Clear page, clear questions, clear direction. 
How would you rate the difficulty of understanding the question you’re being asked on a scale from 1 to 5, where 1 is easy and 5 is difficult? I would say a 1
In a real life situation, how much time do you think you would need to be able to answer this question on a scale of 1 to 5, where 1 is longer and 5 is quicker: 5
Now, please tap “yes” to advance.
- its bold, gives an example of hotel. (reading page) everything here is clear. 
How would you rate the difficulty of understanding the question you’re being asked on a scale from 1 to 5, where 1 is easy and 5 is difficult? 1. 
In a real life situation, how much time do you think you would need to be able to answer this question on a scale of 1 to 5, where 1 is longer and 5 is quicker: 5. 
Now, please tap “no” to advance.
On this page, go ahead and tap “check in now” for either appointment to advance.
Great. You’ve reached the last page again.
Post-Task Questions
•	Do you prefer one prototype over the other? Why or why not? no preference 
•	What differences, if any, did you notice in this prototype compared to the first one? I don’t think I did notice, was I supposed to. I don’t think I did no. I don’t think I noticed anything. It doesn’t change my preference; I can see an older veteran suing technology to check in being easier to understand when its broken down. For me if that was the prototype released it wouldn’t bother me to answer them separately. 
Closing - 2 Minutes
Great. Well, that is all the questions I have for you today. Is there anything else that we haven’t talked about that you’d like to share with me? Are you looking to launch this in a va app or needing to use a browser on the phone to check in. 
Allow observers to leave: No observers joined

