# Patient Check In Conversation Guide for Travel Reimbursement MVP Remote Usability Test - Prototype-Tasks for B & C, Starting with Prototype C

I have started recording. Once again, are you comfortable if I record this session today? Yes

## Warm-Up Questions - 1 Minute

So, before we look at the website, let’s start with a few warm-up questions.

- What kind of device are you using for this session today? iPhone
- What brand or operating system is it? It’s a XR
- Have you been to a VA health care facility for a medical appointment for yourself in the last 12 months? Yes
- Have you ever used your mobile device to check in for a medical appointment? Yes
- Have you ever filed or received payment for a travel reimbursement claim for a VA medical appointment? I have filed, yes. 

## Prototype-Tasks for B & C, Starting with Prototype C - 30 Minutes

*The participant should be on the page “Is this statement true for you?” page.*

Now, on this page, as you’re reviewing, I would like you to talk aloud as much as possible so that you share what you’re thinking and what, if anything, you’re unsure about before advancing to the next page. Please start reviewing, but remember, don’t advance to the next page.

- Alright, everything looks good and is understandable. 

How would you rate the difficulty of understanding the question you’re being asked on a scale from 1 to 5, where 1 is easy and 5 is difficult? I would say a 1 but this could eb a problem with older veterans because someone else might bring them. For me where I am able to drive myself I could see some of the fellow veteran that wouldn’t understand this because maybe their friend or daughter brought them. They could misread this so maybe it should say my own vehicle or read somehow that someone else brought them in a vehicle. That’s the only thing I would say looking at it from their perspective. 

In a real life situation, how much time do you think you would need to be able to answer this question on a scale of 1 to 5, where 1 is longer and 5 is quicker: 5, shorter amount of time. 

Now, please tap “yes” to advance.

Same thing here, please start reviewing, but remember, don’t advance to the next page yet.

How would you rate the difficulty of understanding the question you’re being asked on a scale from 1 to 5, where 1 is easy and 5 is difficult? 1. 

In a real life situation, how much time do you think you would need to be able to answer this question on a scale of 1 to 5, where 1 is longer and 5 is quicker: um 5. The only time it would take me longer would be fi it were no and I needed to change the address. 

Now, please tap “yes” to advance.

How would you rate the difficulty of understanding the question you’re being asked on a scale from 1 to 5, where 1 is easy and 5 is difficult? 1. 

In a real life situation, how much time do you think you would need to be able to answer this question on a scale of 1 to 5, where 1 is longer and 5 is quicker: 5

*The participant should be on the confirmation page.*

Again, on this page, as you’re reviewing, I would like you to talk aloud as much as possible so that you share what you’re thinking and what, if anything, you’re unsure about before. Please start reviewing.

- Okay so my question is where are they sending the update for my travel reimbursement, to my email or text message. That’s my question about the statement. It is clear to understand but I wouldn’t know where it is going. 

This is the last page of the check in experience. Could you tell me if this is what you expected to see? No I think that’s it. 

Is there anything unclear to you? The unclear part is where they will be sending the update. A lot of time we file travel through appear but never get feedback on accepting or denial. I have sent in multiple travel but never received it. it would be nice if it said we will send an update to the email on file so I know where to look for it. 

How would you rate how well this page met your expectations based on how you responded to the questions on the previous pages on a scale of 1 to 5, where 1 is does not meet your expectations and 5 is does meet your expectation?  5

How would you rate the difficulty of understanding the information on this page on a scale of 1 to 5, where 1 is easy and 5 is difficult? 1

### Post-Task Questions

- Now, in thinking about all the pages you reviewed for checking in to an appointment, could you tell me if this is what you expected to see? it would be nice to see this, yes.
- Was there anything unclear to you? Um no I think everything was really clear. 

### Tasks for Alternative Path

*The participant should be on the confirmation page.*

Now, again, on this page, as you’re reviewing, I would like you to talk aloud as much as possible so that you share what you’re thinking and what, if anything, you’re unsure about before. Please start reviewing.

- okay. 	

So, again, this is the last page of the check in experience. Could you tell me if this is what you expected to see as a result of changing your answer to "no" to filing a travel reimbursement claim? Um yes. 

Is there anything unclear to you? No. 

How would you rate how well this page met your expectations based on how you responded to the questions on the previous pages on a scale of 1 to 5, where 1 is does not meet your expectations and 5 is does meet your expectation? 5. 

How would you rate the difficulty of understanding the information on the page on a scale of 1 to 5, where 1 is easy and 5 is difficult? 1

### Switch to Prototype B

*The participant should be on the “Are all of the following true?” page.*

Now, we’ve made some changes here compared to the first prototype. So, as you’re reviewing, I would like you to talk aloud as much as possible so that you share what you’re thinking and what, if anything, you’re unsure about before advancing to the next page. Please start reviewing, but remember, don’t advance to the next page yet.

- okay

How would you rate the difficulty of understanding the question you’re being asked on a scale from 1 to 5, where 1 is easy and 5 is difficult? 1

In a real life situation, how much time do you think you would need to be able to answer this question on a scale of 1 to 5, where 1 is longer and 5 is quicker: 5. 

### Post-Task Questions

- Did you think this prototype was any easier or more difficult to complete compared to the first prototype? Why or why not? No I don’t think it’s more difficult, I think it is equal. The first went through it individually which some people like in case they need to change something. The second was when its compacted. I guess when you say no you can than go back in and change the infomraiton. 
- Does that meet your expectations: no because what if it is just my address. In the first one if I say no I could correct it at that time but this one does not allow me to correct it. say I moved further out I would only be getting paid by the original I would need to do a paper form to update it. How can I update it or when do I update it. 
- Do you prefer one prototype over the other? Why or why not? me personally I prefer the first one just in case because I have moved form one state to another. VA to GA and trying to change it took forever because it was by paper. If this was available I could have went in to change the information so I would use option number 1. 
- What differences, if any, did you notice in this prototype compared to the first one? No that was the only difference between the two. 

## Closing - 2 Minutes

Great. Well, that is all the questions I have for you today. Is there anything else that we haven’t talked about that you’d like to share with me? the only thing I could say would eb the requirements. In VA the closest VA was an hour away whereas in GA I live about 30 minutes away so I am not sure what the actual requirements are for travel reimbursement. Do you have to live outside of the 30 miles radius of the va. I think there could be a little infomraiton I so you can see if you would qualify for the reimbursement. If you go trough this expecting it and then you don’t qualify you would ask why but theres no answer. 

*Allow observers to leave: No observers joined*
