# Patient Check In Conversation Guide for Travel Reimbursement MVP Remote Usability Test - Prototype-Tasks for A & B, Starting with Prototype A

## Intro - 5 Minutes

I have started recording. Once again, are you comfortable if I record this session today? Yes sir. 

## Warm-Up Questions - 1 Minute

- What kind of device are you using for this session today? A mac book pro. I would rather stay on my computer but I do have an iPhone. 
- Have you been to a VA health care facility for a medical appointment for yourself in the last 12 months? Yes
- Have you ever used your mobile device to check in for a medical appointment? Um Well kind of they send you messages to confirm the appointment so I do it that way. 
- Have you ever filed or received payment for a travel reimbursement claim for a VA medical appointment? I have not. 

## Prototype-Tasks for A & B, Starting with Prototype A - 30 Minutes

*The participant should be on the page “Filing for travel reimbursement?” page.*

Now, on this page, as you’re reviewing, I would like you to talk aloud as much as possible so that you share what you’re thinking and what, if anything, you’re unsure about before advancing to the next page. Please start reviewing, but remember, don’t advance to the next page.

- Okay. 

How would you rate the difficulty of understanding the question you’re being asked on a scale from 1 to 5, where 1 is easy and 5 is difficult? I think it is pretty easy, I would say a 1 for someone like be but the older generation may be looking at a 3 or 4 due to the technology requirement. 

Why for the older generation: Because they are not used to dealing with computers as a general rule they don’t have experience with it. they didn’t grow up with the tech there is now, until you get used to it I won’t say its hard to navigate but it will take time. One thing I do know about the generation beyond me they actually read whereas my generation just says yeah yeah okay. 

Now, please tap “yes” to advance.

Again, on this page, as you’re reviewing, I would like you to talk aloud as much as possible so that you share what you’re thinking and what, if anything, you’re unsure about before advancing to the next page. Please begin reviewing.

- Okay

How would you rate the difficulty of understanding the question you’re being asked on a scale from 1 to 5, where 1 is easy and 5 is difficult? It’s a 1. 

Now, please tap “yes” to advance.

*The participant should be on the confirmation page.*

Again, on this page, as you’re reviewing, I would like you to talk aloud as much as possible so that you share what you’re thinking and what, if anything, you’re unsure about before. Please start reviewing.

- okay. 

This is the last page of the check in experience. Could you tell me if this is what you expected to see? Um as far as getting into the waiting room makes sense but adding the travel reimbursement I don’t know why that would be part of the check in. 

Is there anything unclear to you? Nothing is unclear but you might want to make the go to another appointment a bit bigger. Old eyes. 

What would you like to change or add? Um one thing that could be added, there are signs that if you are waiting longer than 15 minutes go to the front counter to inform someone. 

How would you rate how well this page met your expectations based on how you responded to the questions on the previous pages on a scale of 1 to 5, where 1 is does not meet your expectations and 5 is does meet your expectation? Um I think it is a 4 or 5. It is easy to navigate and I read everything so I don’t think there would be many issues there. 

And how would you rate the difficulty of understanding the information on this page on a scale of 1 to 5, where 1 is easy and 5 is difficult? About a 1. 

### Post-Task Questions

- Now, in thinking about all the pages you reviewed for checking in to an appointment, could you tell me if this is what you expected to see? Um, I would say I am surprised how streamline it looks with the va websites. It reminds me a lot of my HealtheVet because it is easy to navigate and understand. 
- Was there anything unclear to you?  No sir. 
- Would you order anything differently? 
- What would you like to change or add? Um, I would say no because the only thing you would add was for the nurse or the doctor like any other conditions but that’s when you see the doctor. 
- What are your thoughts on checking in for an appointment and filing for travel reimbursement at the same time? Um I like the check in process, I would like a separate screen for travel. I am not sure what the rules are for travel so that’s why I am not sure it should be with the check in process. 
- Do you recall when review of your travel reimbursement claim takes place? Oh I just looked at the form when there. I think on the form it says it can take 14 business days for review. I don’t remember seeing it in the prototype and its been a week or so since I looked at the form so I probably did a memory dump on that infomraiton. 
- Would knowing that VA checks your eligibility for travel reimbursement after you complete checking in deter you (or stop you) from filing for travel reimbursement in the future? Why or why not? Oh no. So the only thing is that the va isnt good with being fourth coming with infomraiton, you have to ask they don’t volunteer infomraiton. This would streamline requesting travel on an app on the phone or being able to do it on your laptop. If you aren’t eligible I think there needs to be a return that says you are not eligible for travel at this time. 

### Tasks for Alternative Path

*The participant should be on the confirmation page.*

Now, again, on this page, as you’re reviewing, I would like you to talk aloud as much as possible so that you share what you’re thinking and what, if anything, you’re unsure about before. Please start reviewing.

- Okay. 

So, again, this is the last page of the check in experience. Could you tell me if this is what you expected to see as a result of changing your answer to "no" to filing a travel reimbursement claim? So it gives you a second chance to ask for reimbursement. I didn’t expect to see it but if you are the type that is like let me see or let me fill it out and ask the staff member for one. 

Is there anything unclear to you? No sir. 

What would you like to change or add? Again I would add the if you have not been seen in 15 minutes see someone at the counter. 

How would you rate how well this page met your expectations based on how you responded to the questions on the previous pages on a scale of 1 to 5, where 1 is does not meet your expectations and 5 is does meet your expectation? I would say 5. 

And how would you rate the difficulty of understanding the information on the page on a scale of 1 to 5, where 1 is easy and 5 is difficult? It’s a 1. 

### Switch to Prototype B

*The participant should be on the “Are all of the following true?” page.*

Now, we’ve made some changes here compared to the first prototype. So, as you’re reviewing, I would like you to talk aloud as much as possible so that you share what you’re thinking and what, if anything, you’re unsure about before advancing to the next page. Please start reviewing, but remember, don’t advance to the next page yet.

- Oh you added and to it. okay. 

How would you rate the difficulty of understanding the question you’re being asked on a scale from 1 to 5, where 1 is easy and 5 is difficult? Um I would put it as a 2 or 3 because when you put the word and. You have to qualify for both in opposed to one or the other. Don’t have receipts to file can be confusing. 

Now, please tap “yes” to advance.

On this page, go ahead and tap “check in now” for either appointment to advance.

Great. You’ve reached the last page again.

### Post-Task Questions

- Did you think this prototype was any easier or more difficult to complete compared to the first prototype? Why or why not? It wasn’t any more difficult but when you start adding certain words, for people to understand that they must meet all of the criteria to get this can be confusing. 
- Do you prefer one prototype over the other? Why or why not? the first one. 
- What differences, if any, did you notice in this prototype compared to the first one? They were both setup the same but the wording as different. if you do government speak, some like it but I hate it. I like the common language saying you must qualify for all of this and if you don’t you don’t need to file for travel. 
- And, in this prototype compared to the first one, what are your thoughts on checking in for an appointment and filing for travel reimbursement at the same time?  I still think it should be separate but that’s just me. 

## Closing - 2 Minutes

Great. Well, that is all the questions I have for you today. Is there anything else that we haven’t talked about that you’d like to share with me? No, I think that’s good. 

*Allow observers to leave: No observers joined.*
