Patient Check In Conversation Guide for Travel Reimbursement MVP Remote Usability Test - Prototype-Tasks for A & B, Starting with Prototype B
Intro - 5 Minutes
I have started recording. Once again, are you comfortable if I record this session today? Yes I am. 
Warm-Up Questions - 1 Minute
•	What kind of device are you using for this session today? I am on an iPhone like it asked me to be. 
•	what brand or operating system is it? I believe it’s a 10. 
•	Have you been to a VA health care facility for a medical appointment for yourself in the last 12 months? Yesterday, yes. 
•	Have you ever used your mobile device to check in for a medical appointment? No I haven’t. 
•	Have you ever filed or received payment for a travel reimbursement claim for a VA medical appointment? Uh yes once. 
Prototype-Tasks for A & B, Starting with Prototype B - 30 Minutes
The participant should be on the page “Are all of the following true?” page.
Now, on this page, as you’re reviewing, I would like you to talk aloud as much as possible so that you share what you’re thinking and what, if anything, you’re unsure about before advancing to the next page. Please start reviewing, but remember, don’t advance to the next page.
- (reading page) One question on that, we are in new York so some people have to take the toll road. How would we submit the receipt for the tolls. They went through electronic tolls and wed need to pull the bill which wouldn’t be for the next month. I don’t worry about it but I know that’s a question that would come about. So you have some information I am a DAV officer and work with veterans writing the claims and have been doing it for 13 years and the for the most part was in the VA clinic so I am familiar with a lot of the infomraiton. 
How would you rate the difficulty of understanding the question you’re being asked on a scale from 1 to 5, where 1 is easy and 5 is difficult? It is a 1, it is a hell of a lot better than what comes up on the kiosk. It is simple and that’s what the va doesn’t understand. Simple is easy. 
Now, please tap “yes” to advance.
The participant should be on the confirmation page.
Again, on this page, as you’re reviewing, I would like you to talk aloud as much as possible so that you share what you’re thinking and what, if anything, you’re unsure about before. Please start reviewing.
- I assume I know where the clinic is and its team 7. It would be a 1 as far as it is well put together. 
This is the last page of the check in experience. Could you tell me if this is what you expected to see? Yes
Is there anything unclear to you? No
What would you like to change or add? No, not on this page but on the pervious page with appointments listed. Here for a long time we are split into two different buildings about 3 miles apart, what they use to do if it were a morning appointment and afternoon appointment we weren’t able to check in until an hour before. Is it built into this system as well, will it assume I made it to the other appointments. Or if I click the morning appointment will it prevent me from checking in for my afternoon. Is the thing there preventing me from logging into all of my appointments.
How would you rate how well this page met your expectations based on how you responded to the questions on the previous pages on a scale of 1 to 5, where 1 is does not meet your expectations and 5 is does meet your expectation? A 5 because it is not cluttered and it is easy to understand. 
And how would you rate the difficulty of understanding the information on this page on a scale of 1 to 5, where 1 is easy and 5 is difficult? It’s a 1. 
Post-Task Questions
•	Now, in thinking about all the pages you reviewed for checking in to an appointment, could you tell me if this is what you expected to see? Yes.
•	Was there anything unclear to you? No. It is very clean and well put together. 
•	Would you order anything differently?  No. 
•	What would you like to change or add? 
•	What are your thoughts on checking in for an appointment and filing for travel reimbursement at the same time? Uh that’s an excellent concept because right now we cant do it without click a lot of buttons but to have it do it when checking in on the page it is very simple and that’s good. 
•	Do you recall when review of your travel reimbursement claim takes place? Uh, not when but it did state that it would check and then here it says that it’ll send an update so it tells me that you are checking it and the questions prior was telling me that you are checking it. 
•	Would knowing that VA checks your eligibility for travel reimbursement after you complete checking in deter you (or stop you) from filing for travel reimbursement in the future? No, the only reason someone would stop doing it this way was because they are trying to scam the system. 
Tasks for Alternative Path
The participant should be on the confirmation page.	
Now, again, on this page, as you’re reviewing, I would like you to talk aloud as much as possible so that you share what you’re thinking and what, if anything, you’re unsure about before. Please start reviewing.
- one question, I noticed it says work phone not available. If I had one could I update it. Okay. Again it is very simple and clear. I can tell you are not VA employees not writing this, it is very well done. 
So, again, this is the last page of the check in experience. Could you tell me if this is what you expected to see as a result of changing your answer to "no" to filing a travel reimbursement claim?  It is exactly what I should be seeing and the infomraiton on how to file online is good as well. I am 71 and self-taught on social media but a lot of us just have a phone that we can work partially so that’s a good way to explain how to do it online. 
What would you like to change or add? No it is very clear and simple
How would you rate how well this page met your expectations based on how you responded to the questions on the previous pages on a scale of 1 to 5, where 1 is does not meet your expectations and 5 is does meet your expectation? Definitely a 5. 
And how would you rate the difficulty of understanding the information on the page on a scale of 1 to 5, where 1 is easy and 5 is difficult? 1. 
Switch to Prototype A
The participant should be on the “Filing for travel reimbursement?” page.
Now, on this page, as you’re reviewing, I would like you to talk aloud as much as possible so that you share what you’re thinking and what, if anything, you’re unsure about before advancing to the next page. Please start reviewing, but remember, don’t advance to the next page.
- (reading page) This is more confusing than the last one. Saying we may be able to submit the claim, file for travel reimbursement would be yes or no,. it is confusing in a way that I don’t know if I qualify for travel or not. we have a lot of vets out there that are qualified but don’t know that they are. With the other one we did if I am qualified the app tells me and then tells me to file for it. if I am not qualified will it still come up. Is it set up to know if a veteran is authorized travel or not. 
How would you rate the difficulty of understanding the question you’re being asked on a scale from 1 to 5, where 1 is easy and 5 is difficult? It would throw it into the 3-4 range because in the infomraiton part is slightly confusing as well.
Now, please tap “yes” to advance.
Again, on this page, as you’re reviewing, I would like you to talk aloud as much as possible so that you share what you’re thinking and what, if anything, you’re unsure about before advancing to the next page. Please begin reviewing.
- (reading page) This page is clear and understandable. 
How would you rate the difficulty of understanding the question you’re being asked on a scale from 1 to 5, where 1 is easy and 5 is difficult? 1
Now, please tap “yes” to advance.
Post-Task Questions
•	Did you think this prototype was any easier or more difficult to complete compared to the first prototype? Why or why not? it is a little more confusing. The first one was the best one. 
•	Do you prefer one prototype over the other? It would be the first one, yes. 
•	And, in this prototype compared to the first one, what are your thoughts on checking in for an appointment and filing for travel reimbursement at the same time? Uh, its good its simpler than the kiosk system now. With the first one I think it is easy to understand for veterans.
Closing - 2 Minutes
Great. Well, that is all the questions I have for you today. Is there anything else that we haven’t talked about that you’d like to share with me? Uh, not really. One comment if I remember right on the first example I checked in for the appointment than answered for travel correct. Okay that’s what makes it better. The previous page was confusing and made it more difficult to understand. By coming directly to this page it was a lot better. 
Allow observers to leave.
•	Would you say that you were mostly nervous or mostly comfortable with having observers in this session? I am comfortable with it because it is a learning process and I understand that. I am comfortable with people hearing what I am saying. 
•	Sometimes we have the additional observers already in the session when you join, instead of how we did it today. When I asked you for consent before the observers joined this session, did you appreciate that or did you feel that was mostly unnecessary? For me it was unnecessary but for the general and someone that hasn’t been around the va as long as I have they would appreciate it. 
•	Thinking about the brief introductions with the observers, did that make you feel at ease with them listening in or did it feel more awkward? At ease because its nice to know whose listening. I have never met a stranger anyways but again for the general veteran it would be appreciated 

