# Patient Check In Conversation Guide for Travel Reimbursement MVP Remote Usability Test - Prototype-Tasks for B & C, Starting with Prototype B

I have started recording. Once again, are you comfortable if I record this session today? Yes

## Warm-Up Questions - 1 Minute

- What kind of device are you using for this session today? iPhone 13
- Have you been to a VA health care facility for a medical appointment for yourself in the last 12 months? Yes
- Have you ever used your mobile device to check in for a medical appointment? No
- Have you ever filed or received payment for a travel reimbursement claim for a VA medical appointment? Yes

## Prototype-Tasks for B & C, Starting with Prototype B - 30 Minutes

*The participant should be on the page “Are all of the following true?” page.*

Now, on this page, as you’re reviewing, I would like you to talk aloud as much as possible so that you share what you’re thinking and what, if anything, you’re unsure about before advancing to the next page. Please start reviewing, but remember, don’t advance to the next page.

- Okay, that’s different. 

How would you rate the difficulty of understanding the question you’re being asked on a scale from 1 to 5, where 1 is easy and 5 is difficult? 1, to me it is self-explanatory, is all the following true. It is allowing us to file the claim at the same time. 

In a real life situation, how much time do you think you would need to be able to answer this question on a scale of 1 to 5, where 1 is longer and 5 is quicker: shorter amount of time. 

*The participant should be on the confirmation page.*

Again, on this page, as you’re reviewing, I would like you to talk aloud as much as possible so that you share what you’re thinking and what, if anything, you’re unsure about before. Please start reviewing.

- Okay

This is the last page of the check in experience. Could you tell me if this is what you expected to see? as far as being checked in yes. Let me ask you this, after the appointment is there anything to do or is this all of the infomration upfront. 

Is there anything unclear to you? No it tells us the time, location, checked in , and reviewing the claim. 

What would you like to change or add?  Hmm. I am just reviewing it again. My only question is on the travel reimbursement, shouldn’t it say once processed. 

How would you rate how well this page met your expectations based on how you responded to the questions on the previous pages on a scale of 1 to 5, where 1 is does not meet your expectations and 5 is does meet your expectation? I would give it a 4. 

And how would you rate the difficulty of understanding the information on this page on a scale of 1 to 5, where 1 is easy and 5 is difficult? It is pretty easy, like I said the one thing I would add because someone may expect infomration right away to say once processed because it can take months. 

### Post-Task Questions

- Now, in thinking about all the pages you reviewed for checking in to an appointment, could you tell me if this is what you expected to see? Yeah 
- What would you like to change or add? Not that I can remember. 

### Tasks for Alternative Path

*The participant should be on the confirmation page.*

Now, again, on this page, as you’re reviewing, I would like you to talk aloud as much as possible so that you share what you’re thinking and what, if anything, you’re unsure about before. Please start reviewing.

So, again, this is the last page of the check in experience. Could you tell me if this is what you expected to see as a result of changing your answer to "no" to filing a travel reimbursement claim? It tells you want to do; it is self-explanatory. 

Is there anything unclear to you? no

What would you like to change or add?  No

How would you rate how well this page met your expectations based on how you responded to the questions on the previous pages on a scale of 1 to 5, where 1 is does not meet your expectations and 5 is does meet your expectation? Based on what you said let me think about this. I think part of the question though was on travel and on the other page. They could have went from a different location and still been reimbursed that they choose to reimburse. 

And how would you rate the difficulty of understanding the information on the page on a scale of 1 to 5, where 1 is easy and 5 is difficult? It is easy to understand but how it was setup is a bit confusing. 

### Switch to Prototype C

*The participant should be on the “Is this statement true for you?” page.*

Now, we’ve made some changes here compared to the first prototype. So, as you’re reviewing, I would like you to talk aloud as much as possible so that you share what you’re thinking and what, if anything, you’re unsure about before advancing to the next page. Please start reviewing, but remember, don’t advance to the next page yet.

- Okay. 

How would you rate the difficulty of understanding the question you’re being asked on a scale from 1 to 5, where 1 is easy and 5 is difficult? 1 it is easy. 

In a real life situation, how much time do you think you would need to be able to answer this question on a scale of 1 to 5, where 1 is longer and 5 is quicker: 5. 

Now, please tap “yes” to advance.

How would you rate the difficulty of understanding the question you’re being asked on a scale from 1 to 5, where 1 is easy and 5 is difficult? Easy, either you know your address or you don’t. 

In a real life situation, how much time do you think you would need to be able to answer this question on a scale of 1 to 5, where 1 is longer and 5 is quicker: Short

Now, please tap “yes” to advance.

How would you rate the difficulty of understanding the question you’re being asked on a scale from 1 to 5, where 1 is easy and 5 is difficult? Easy. 

In a real life situation, how much time do you think you would need to be able to answer this question on a scale of 1 to 5, where 1 is longer and 5 is quicker: Not very 

Now, please tap “no” to advance.

### Post-Task Questions

- Did you think this prototype was any easier or more difficult to complete compared to the first prototype? Why or why not? it is a little bit easier. Uh the flow made it easier. 
- Do you prefer one prototype over the other? Why or why not? Probably 2. 
- What differences, if any, did you notice in this prototype compared to the first one? The wording issues. 

## Closing - 2 Minutes

Great. Well, that is all the questions I have for you today. Is there anything else that we haven’t talked about that you’d like to share with me? No. 

*Allow observers to leave.*

- Would you say that you were mostly nervous or mostly comfortable with having observers in this session? It didn’t bother me one way or the other. 
- Sometimes we have the additional observers already in the session when you join, instead of how we did it today. When I asked you for consent before the observers joined this session, did you appreciate that or did you feel that was mostly unnecessary? Uh to me it wouldn’t have mattered to me one way or the other. 
- Thinking about the brief introductions with the observers, did that make you feel at ease with them listening in or did it feel more awkward? Probably more awkward like why are they here. 
