# Patient Check In Conversation Guide for Travel Reimbursement MVP Remote Usability Test - Prototype-Tasks for B & C, Starting with Prototype C

I have started recording. Once again, are you comfortable if I record this session today? Yes

## Warm-Up Questions - 1 Minute

- What kind of device are you using for this session today? iPhone
- What brand or operating system is it? they said x but I think that’s a ten right
- Have you been to a VA health care facility for a medical appointment for yourself in the last 12 months? I go almost every week; I am professional weekly patient. 
- Have you ever used your mobile device to check in for a medical appointment? I don’t think we are allowed to do that yet; we have to do that on the kiosk. 
- Have you ever filed or received payment for a travel reimbursement claim for a VA medical appointment? Every single one 

## Prototype-Tasks for B & C, Starting with Prototype C - 30 Minutes

*The participant should be on the page “Is this statement true for you?” page.*

Now, on this page, as you’re reviewing, I would like you to talk aloud as much as possible so that you share what you’re thinking and what, if anything, you’re unsure about before advancing to the next page. Please start reviewing, but remember, don’t advance to the next page.

- Alright (reading page). In an urban area where I live you tend to use public mass transit.  You don’t want to drive where I am its like driving in DC during lunch. It should say used my own vehicle or took an appropriate transportation that required a fee. Normally they have accessory ride which is where you pay the public transportation rate but pick you up from your house. That is very misleading depending on where you live. 

How would you rate the difficulty of understanding the question you’re being asked on a scale from 1 to 5, where 1 is easy and 5 is difficult? Very easy to understand but it should say if you have any questions to talk to the transportation coordinator. They might have a better way to key it in. 

In a real life situation, how much time do you think you would need to be able to answer this question on a scale of 1 to 5, where 1 is longer and 5 is quicker: Um, shorter amount of time if it’s a one click. 

Now, please tap “yes” to advance.

Same thing here, please start reviewing, but remember, don’t advance to the next page yet.

- Alright. Finished  

How would you rate the difficulty of understanding the question you’re being asked on a scale from 1 to 5, where 1 is easy and 5 is difficult? Um very easy to understand. It is your home address. 

In a real life situation, how much time do you think you would need to be able to answer this question on a scale of 1 to 5, where 1 is longer and 5 is quicker: 5. 

Now, please tap “yes” to advance.

- other expenses such as hotel, maybe you should put meal expenses as well. I know people that travel from Philadelphia to New York City for an appointment and it’s a 2 hour ride there and I think they cover their meals. 

How would you rate the difficulty of understanding the question you’re being asked on a scale from 1 to 5, where 1 is easy and 5 is difficult?  1 its easy to understand 

In a real life situation, how much time do you think you would need to be able to answer this question on a scale of 1 to 5, where 1 is longer and 5 is quicker: 5

*The participant should be on the confirmation page.*

Again, on this page, as you’re reviewing, I would like you to talk aloud as much as possible so that you share what you’re thinking and what, if anything, you’re unsure about before. Please start reviewing.

-(reading page) I guess NP means nurse practitioner.  

This is the last page of the check in experience. Could you tell me if this is what you expected to see? Yeah. 

Is there anything unclear to you? No but maybe you should have your name somewhere. Maybe after appointment you have their name or last four. Something to identify it. I know it’s a secure website but I had issues on a commercial sites when redirected to a similar site. Make sure theres an identification factor like the name and is this you. I have seen it on other sites that you are redirected. I catch it but others don’t. 

What would you like to change or add? No it looks good. 

How would you rate how well this page met your expectations based on how you responded to the questions on the previous pages on a scale of 1 to 5, where 1 is does not meet your expectations and 5 is does meet your expectation? 5

How would you rate the difficulty of understanding the information on this page on a scale of 1 to 5, where 1 is easy and 5 is difficult? 1. 

### Post-Task Questions

- Now, in thinking about all the pages you reviewed for checking in to an appointment, could you tell me if this is what you expected to see? Yeah its similar to the kiosk. 
- Was there anything unclear to you? No.
- What would you like to change or add? No. 

### Tasks for Alternative Path

*The participant should be on the confirmation page.*

Now, again, on this page, as you’re reviewing, I would like you to talk aloud as much as possible so that you share what you’re thinking and what, if anything, you’re unsure about before. Please start reviewing.

- Will you be able to edit it here like you can on the kiosk. You can update the contact infomration. I know on the kiosk you can do all of that. I have seen a lot of people that take care service, taxi, uber. It depends on their disability. It is pretty geriatric, collecting SS and are up there. Most of them cant drive you have the inability to drive believe or not. you have to address the demographics; you aren’t dealing with younger people. Most veterans are severally fragile. I am fragile but I don’t look like it, my appearance is deceiving. You cant see the veterans disability on most of them.

So, again, this is the last page of the check in experience. Could you tell me if this is what you expected to see as a result of changing your answer to "no" to filing a travel reimbursement claim? It is saying they cant file the travel claim. At the VA you go to the travel claim rep and manually do a form there with them when the kiosks don’t work that’s what I do or when the system is down. It doesn’t work like and ATM machine. 

Is there anything unclear to you? No its clear. It tells you that you’re checked and to see a rep to follow up. If you don’t tell them what to do they just wont do it. I would but most they wouldn’t do it especially when in their 70’s. they are more child like. If you don’t tell them what to do they wont do it.  

Warning to ask a staff member clear: hopefully its enough, you are dealing with elderly people, their cognitive functions aren’t the same and most of them aren’t tech savvy or use a smartphone. They use a flip phone with no bells or whistles on it. Most of them don’t know how to use zoom. 

How would you rate how well this page met your expectations based on how you responded to the questions on the previous pages on a scale of 1 to 5, where 1 is does not meet your expectations and 5 is does meet your expectation? Yeah you’re checked in and need to follow up for travel. It’s clear. 

How would you rate the difficulty of understanding the information on the page on a scale of 1 to 5, where 1 is easy and 5 is difficult? 1, it’s easy to understand.

### Switch to Prototype B

*The participant should be on the “Are all of the following true?” page.*

Now, we’ve made some changes here compared to the first prototype. So, as you’re reviewing, I would like you to talk aloud as much as possible so that you share what you’re thinking and what, if anything, you’re unsure about before advancing to the next page. Please start reviewing, but remember, don’t advance to the next page yet.

How would you rate the difficulty of understanding the question you’re being asked on a scale from 1 to 5, where 1 is easy and 5 is difficult? 1 it’s easy to understand. 

In a real life situation, how much time do you think you would need to be able to answer this question on a scale of 1 to 5, where 1 is longer and 5 is quicker: 5. 

### Post-Task Questions

- Did you think this prototype was any easier or more difficult to complete compared to the first prototype? This is easy. It is the same to me, its not easier or harder. It is just more detailed than the first one. 
- Do you prefer one prototype over the other? I prefer the second one, its more informative. It tells you exactly what to do for the travel claim. Its more detailed and less being intuitive. 
- What differences, if any, did you notice in this prototype compared to the first one? Its more detailed and tells you the process that you did, traveled form home,  used your vehicle, and did not file any receipts. 

## Closing - 2 Minutes

Great. Well, that is all the questions I have for you today. Is there anything else that we haven’t talked about that you’d like to share with me? No I like it. 

*Allow observers to leave.*

- Would you say that you were mostly nervous or mostly comfortable with having observers in this session? I am not nervous; I am used to zoom calls. 
- Sometimes we have the additional observers already in the session when you join, instead of how we did it today. When I asked you for consent before the observers joined this session, did you appreciate that or did you feel that was mostly unnecessary? It depends on the generational manners, older people this it is needed but I kind of expect being under surveillance. It’s a generational thing believe it or not. 
- Thinking about the brief introductions with the observers, did that make you feel at ease with them listening in or did it feel more awkward? At ease for me and better for others to know people aren’t ease dropping. They aren’t used to group text or zoom. I am 59 I can go either way. I can survive without my phone. I know a younger person that freaked out and I had to drive them home to get it. The older generation need to be taught how to use the tech by an outreach program. when I bought my first phone I had to be taught as well. I didn’t need the games I needed to know how to use the phone. The games are important but if I am going to do that I might as well do it at home on the Xbox. Other than that I think this is very helpful. The va is getting the tech up to date and I am just waiting for the barcode scan for airlines for check ins. 
