# Patient Check In Conversation Guide for Travel Reimbursement MVP Remote Usability Test - Prototype-Tasks for A & B, Starting with Prototype A

## Intro - 5 Minutes

I have started recording. Once again, are you comfortable if I record this session today? Yes

## Warm-Up Questions - 1 Minute

- What kind of device are you using for this session today? iPhone
- What brand or operating system is it? it’s 13 I believe
- Have you been to a VA health care facility for a medical appointment for yourself in the last 12 months? Yes
- Have you ever used your mobile device to check in for a medical appointment? No
- Have you ever filed or received payment for a travel reimbursement claim for a VA medical appointment? Yes I have. 

## Prototype-Tasks for A & B, Starting with Prototype A - 30 Minutes

*The participant should be on the page “Filing for travel reimbursement?” page.*

Now, on this page, as you’re reviewing, I would like you to talk aloud as much as possible so that you share what you’re thinking and what, if anything, you’re unsure about before advancing to the next page. Please start reviewing, but remember, don’t advance to the next page.

How would you rate the difficulty of understanding the question you’re being asked on a scale from 1 to 5, where 1 is easy and 5 is difficult? 4, well it says they may be able. I don’t like the doubt of it may work or may not work. (Reading page) yeah I like the way it says you can ask for a paper form; I can do it but I think the older people may have a hard time doing it, that’s why I say 4. 

Now, please tap “yes” to advance.

Again, on this page, as you’re reviewing, I would like you to talk aloud as much as possible so that you share what you’re thinking and what, if anything, you’re unsure about before advancing to the next page. Please begin reviewing.

How would you rate the difficulty of understanding the question you’re being asked on a scale from 1 to 5, where 1 is easy and 5 is difficult? I would say a 3. The third one is ambiguous, don’t have to file receipts for other expenses.

Now, please tap “yes” to advance.

On this page, read the information and tap “check in now” for either appointment to advance once you’ve reviewed.

*The participant should be on the confirmation page.*

Again, on this page, as you’re reviewing, I would like you to talk aloud as much as possible so that you share what you’re thinking and what, if anything, you’re unsure about before. Please start reviewing.

This is the last page of the check in experience. Could you tell me if this is what you expected to see? Um, yeah just the second statement scares me a little. We will send you an update about travel reimbursement. I don’t understand what you are saying. Are we saying we put in the travel when we checked in initially. 

Need to be made clear or worded differently: yes

Is there anything unclear to you? Everything else looks good

What would you like to change or add? I am coming in to check in and this is what I get. Other than the second one that’s fine. 

How would you rate how well this page met your expectations based on how you responded to the questions on the previous pages on a scale of 1 to 5, where 1 is does not meet your expectations and 5 is does meet your expectation? 3 again. 

And how would you rate the difficulty of understanding the information on this page on a scale of 1 to 5, where 1 is easy and 5 is difficult? I would say with the second statement a 4. 

### Post-Task Questions

- Now, in thinking about all the pages you reviewed for checking in to an appointment, could you tell me if this is what you expected to see? Yes
- Was there anything unclear to you? No not really. I don’t know if we are talking about travel here or when we will talk about that. Well my general comment the system they had was system with an id card and you checked in and everything was in. it was easy instead of going to the website. If this is like the original on than I really like that idea. 
- Would you order anything differently? No I don’t think so, they seem fine. 
- What would you like to change or add? 
- What are your thoughts on checking in for an appointment and filing for travel reimbursement at the same time? I would feel like this is better if I just click a few buttons and its submitted.  I like that idea a lot. When I leave the office if everything is submitted I like it. I like the idea of getting it all done right there. 
- Do you recall when review of your travel reimbursement claim takes place? From what I read here no I didn’t see anything that tells me when they will review it. 
- Would knowing that VA checks your eligibility for travel reimbursement after you complete checking in deter you (or stop you) from filing for travel reimbursement in the future? Well I would say once you do file this way, if they give you an answer instantly that would be good but I don’t know how the process would work if they rejected it. 

### Tasks for Alternative Path

*The participant should be on the confirmation page.*

Now, again, on this page, as you’re reviewing, I would like you to talk aloud as much as possible so that you share what you’re thinking and what, if anything, you’re unsure about before. Please start reviewing.

So, again, this is the last page of the check in experience. Could you tell me if this is what you expected to see as a result of changing your answer to "no" to filing a travel reimbursement claim? I would say no, why would they even ask you. If you say no than that’s the end of it, I don’t know why you would want to go further. 

Is there anything unclear to you? No it doesn’t seem unclear just the second statement is unnecessary 

How would you rate how well this page met your expectations based on how you responded to the questions on the previous pages on a scale of 1 to 5, where 1 is does not meet your expectations and 5 is does meet your expectation? I would say 1 because the second statement doesn’t need to be there. 

### Switch to Prototype B

*The participant should be on the “Are all of the following true?” page.*

Now, we’ve made some changes here compared to the first prototype. So, as you’re reviewing, I would like you to talk aloud as much as possible so that you share what you’re thinking and what, if anything, you’re unsure about before advancing to the next page. Please start reviewing, but remember, don’t advance to the next page yet.

How would you rate the difficulty of understanding the question you’re being asked on a scale from 1 to 5, where 1 is easy and 5 is difficult? I would say 3, I am not sure what the 3rd statement is getting at. 

### Post-Task Questions

- Did you think this prototype was any easier or more difficult to complete compared to the first prototype? I would say this one is more difficult. 
- Do you prefer one prototype over the other? Um, well the other one says if you stay in a hotel would be harder so that one is simpler for me. 
- What differences, if any, did you notice in this prototype compared to the first one? The second statement on this one and the other was a lot different. if you tart talking about the expenses it is harder instead of just the mileage.
- And, in this prototype compared to the first one, what are your thoughts on checking in for an appointment and filing for travel reimbursement at the same time? I like that idea; it is simple and great because once I leave the office it is all done. 

## Closing - 2 Minutes

Great. Well, that is all the questions I have for you today. Is there anything else that we haven’t talked about that you’d like to share with me? nope that sounds great. 

*Allow observers to leave.: no observers joined*
