# Patient Check In Conversation Guide for Travel Reimbursement MVP Remote Usability Test - Prototype-Tasks for A & B, Starting with Prototype B

I have started recording. Once again, are you comfortable if I record this session today? Yes I am comfortable 

## Warm-Up Questions - 1 Minute

- What kind of device are you using for this session today? My iPhone 
- Have you been to a VA health care facility for a medical appointment for yourself in the last 12 months? yes
- Have you ever used your mobile device to check in for a medical appointment? Yes
- Have you ever filed or received payment for a travel reimbursement claim for a VA medical appointment? Yes

## Prototype-Tasks for A & B, Starting with Prototype B - 30 Minutes

*The participant should be on the page “Are all of the following true?” page.*

Now, on this page, as you’re reviewing, I would like you to talk aloud as much as possible so that you share what you’re thinking and what, if anything, you’re unsure about before advancing to the next page. Please start reviewing, but remember, don’t advance to the next page.

How would you rate the difficulty of understanding the question you’re being asked on a scale from 1 to 5, where 1 is easy and 5 is difficult? 1. 

Now, please tap “yes” to advance.

On this page, read the information and tap “check in now” for either appointment to advance once you’ve reviewed.

*The participant should be on the confirmation page.*

Again, on this page, as you’re reviewing, I would like you to talk aloud as much as possible so that you share what you’re thinking and what, if anything, you’re unsure about before. Please start reviewing.

This is the last page of the check in experience. Could you tell me if this is what you expected to see? Yes

Is there anything unclear to you? No

What would you like to change or add? No

How would you rate how well this page met your expectations based on how you responded to the questions on the previous pages on a scale of 1 to 5, where 1 is does not meet your expectations and 5 is does meet your expectation? 5

And how would you rate the difficulty of understanding the information on this page on a scale of 1 to 5, where 1 is easy and 5 is difficult? 1

### Post-Task Questions

- Now, in thinking about all the pages you reviewed for checking in to an appointment, could you tell me if this is what you expected to see? Yes
- Was there anything unclear to you? No
- Would you order anything differently? No
- What would you like to change or add? 
- What are your thoughts on checking in for an appointment and filing for travel reimbursement at the same time? I like this. It is quicker and easier. 
- Do you recall when review of your travel reimbursement claim takes place? I think I saw it on the screen I was seeing said that it is in review or denied or paid. 
- Expect the VA reviews it right now or later: Uh I would expect them to review it right now. 
- Would knowing that VA checks your eligibility for travel reimbursement after you complete checking in deter you (or stop you) from filing for travel reimbursement in the future? No

### Tasks for Alternative Path

*The participant should be on the confirmation page.*

Now, again, on this page, as you’re reviewing, I would like you to talk aloud as much as possible so that you share what you’re thinking and what, if anything, you’re unsure about before. Please start reviewing.

So, again, this is the last page of the check in experience. Could you tell me if this is what you expected to see as a result of changing your answer to "no" to filing a travel reimbursement claim? No

Is there anything unclear to you? Nope.

What would you like to change or add? Nope

How would you rate how well this page met your expectations based on how you responded to the questions on the previous pages on a scale of 1 to 5, where 1 is does not meet your expectations and 5 is does meet your expectation? 5

And how would you rate the difficulty of understanding the information on the page on a scale of 1 to 5, where 1 is easy and 5 is difficult? 1

### Switch to Prototype A

*The participant should be on the “Filing for travel reimbursement?” page.*

Now, on this page, as you’re reviewing, I would like you to talk aloud as much as possible so that you share what you’re thinking and what, if anything, you’re unsure about before advancing to the next page. Please start reviewing, but remember, don’t advance to the next page.

How would you rate the difficulty of understanding the question you’re being asked on a scale from 1 to 5, where 1 is easy and 5 is difficult? 1

Now, please tap “yes” to advance.

Again, on this page, as you’re reviewing, I would like you to talk aloud as much as possible so that you share what you’re thinking and what, if anything, you’re unsure about before advancing to the next page. Please begin reviewing.

How would you rate the difficulty of understanding the question you’re being asked on a scale from 1 to 5, where 1 is easy and 5 is difficult?  1

### Post-Task Questions

- Did you think this prototype was any easier or more difficult to complete compared to the first prototype? Yes. Aren’t they the same. 
- Do you prefer one prototype over the other? Um, I prefer this one. I still prefer the second one. 
- What differences, if any, did you notice in this prototype compared to the first one? Um, I guess the other one seems like they would come and get me and I don’t recall it saying that it will send an update on my travel reimbursement. 
- And, in this prototype compared to the first one, what are your thoughts on checking in for an appointment and filing for travel reimbursement at the same time?  I like it. 

## Closing - 2 Minutes

Great. Well, that is all the questions I have for you today. Is there anything else that we haven’t talked about that you’d like to share with me? Nope

*Allow observers to leave. No observers joined*
