# Patient Check In Conversation Guide for Travel Reimbursement MVP Remote Usability Test - Prototype-Tasks for B & C, Starting with Prototype C

I have started recording. Once again, are you comfortable if I record this session today?

## Warm-Up Questions - 1 Minute

- What kind of device are you using for this session today? I was on my laptop and now on my iPhone. 
- What brand or operating system is it? 13.
- Have you been to a VA health care facility for a medical appointment for yourself in the last 12 months? Yes
- Have you ever used your mobile device to check in for a medical appointment? Once
- Have you ever filed or received payment for a travel reimbursement claim for a VA medical appointment? Yes

## Prototype-Tasks for B & C, Starting with Prototype C - 30 Minutes

*The participant should be on the page “Is this statement true for you?” page.*

Now, on this page, as you’re reviewing, I would like you to talk aloud as much as possible so that you share what you’re thinking and what, if anything, you’re unsure about before advancing to the next page. Please start reviewing, but remember, don’t advance to the next page.

- Everything is self-explanatory here. 

How would you rate the difficulty of understanding the question you’re being asked on a scale from 1 to 5, where 1 is easy and 5 is difficult?  Um I would say a 2 just because I needed to stop and really read the question. 

In a real life situation, how much time do you think you would need to be able to answer this question on a scale of 1 to 5, where 1 is longer and 5 is quicker: 1. 

Now, please tap “yes” to advance.

Same thing here, please start reviewing, but remember, don’t advance to the next page yet.

How would you rate the difficulty of understanding the question you’re being asked on a scale from 1 to 5, where 1 is easy and 5 is difficult? 1

In a real life situation, how much time do you think you would need to be able to answer this question on a scale of 1 to 5, where 1 is longer and 5 is quicker: 5

Now, please tap “yes” to advance.

How would you rate the difficulty of understanding the question you’re being asked on a scale from 1 to 5, where 1 is easy and 5 is difficult? Um I would say probably a 1 just because it is an opposite. If no we may be able to submit your travel. That’s what threw me off because the pervious two were yes. 

In a real life situation, how much time do you think you would need to be able to answer this question on a scale of 1 to 5, where 1 is longer and 5 is quicker: 5

Now, please tap “no” to advance.

On this page, read through the information and tap “check in now” for either appointment to advance once you’ve reviewed.

*The participant should be on the confirmation page.*

Again, on this page, as you’re reviewing, I would like you to talk aloud as much as possible so that you share what you’re thinking and what, if anything, you’re unsure about before. Please start reviewing.

This is the last page of the check in experience. Could you tell me if this is what you expected to see? Um honestly I wasn’t sure what I was going to see so there were no expectations. 

Is there anything unclear to you? Not unclear, no. 

What would you like to change or add? I would change the we’ll send you an updated about travel, I would move it to the provider screen as a popup that says we will send you an update on your travel reimbursement and then we would be here on the new screen. 

How would you rate how well this page met your expectations based on how you responded to the questions on the previous pages on a scale of 1 to 5, where 1 is does not meet your expectations and 5 is does meet your expectation? I would probably say a 3. 

How would you rate the difficulty of understanding the information on this page on a scale of 1 to 5, where 1 is easy and 5 is difficult? 2. 

### Post-Task Questions

- Now, in thinking about all the pages you reviewed for checking in to an appointment, could you tell me if this is what you expected to see? Um yeah this is what I would expect to see. 
- Was there anything unclear to you? No nothing was unclear, just a little confusing maybe, slightly confusing. Just with the travel reimbursement where the information is. 
- What would you like to change or add? I would make it as bold as you are checked in and we are reviewing your travel claim. 

### Tasks for Alternative Path

*The participant should be on the confirmation page.*

Now, again, on this page, as you’re reviewing, I would like you to talk aloud as much as possible so that you share what you’re thinking and what, if anything, you’re unsure about before. Please start reviewing.

Is the talk to veteran crisis line now just a dead end. 

So, again, this is the last page of the check in experience. Could you tell me if this is what you expected to see as a result of changing your answer to "no" to filing a travel reimbursement claim? Um, sort of. They are trying to streamline travel I would expect a link to upload receipts. I think the information needs to be separated or bolded a little bit for paper travel forms because the infomration after checking in. a lot of women veterans get nervous when they go to the va, its such a horrible place to go, if I were in a rush I wouldn’t do this. I would say they’ll come get me is more infomration and I would forget to get the travel form. 

Expect a link to open the app, what if you were to click on how to file online: instructions maybe 

Is there anything unclear to you?

What would you like to change or add? Again it would be when you answered all of the questions, the final results, they’ll come get you than how to file online. Finished that set of questions then when it’s just travel infomration there should be a link. 

How would you rate how well this page met your expectations based on how you responded to the questions on the previous pages on a scale of 1 to 5, where 1 is does not meet your expectations and 5 is does meet your expectation? A 3 for this one. 
how would you rate the difficulty of understanding the information on the page on a scale of 1 to 5, where 1 is easy and 5 is difficult? 2

### Switch to Prototype B

*The participant should be on the “Are all of the following true?” page.*

Now, we’ve made some changes here compared to the first prototype. So, as you’re reviewing, I would like you to talk aloud as much as possible so that you share what you’re thinking and what, if anything, you’re unsure about before advancing to the next page. Please start reviewing, but remember, don’t advance to the next page yet.

How would you rate the difficulty of understanding the question you’re being asked on a scale from 1 to 5, where 1 is easy and 5 is difficult? 1

In a real life situation, how much time do you think you would need to be able to answer this question on a scale of 1 to 5, where 1 is longer and 5 is quicker: 5, everything is streamline on one screen and I like the word and in bold. It is easier for me to process. 

Feeling about the travel update: the same as before. 

### Post-Task Questions

- Did you think this prototype was any easier or more difficult to complete compared to the first prototype? This one was a lot easier. I didn’t have to use my brain to go back and fourth. All of travel was on one page and the information as laid out nicely 
- Do you prefer one prototype over the other? This one. 
- What differences, if any, did you notice in this prototype compared to the first one? The way topics are grouped and there are less buttons to push than the other one. For me when checking in someone is talking with you. Having to use multiple questions I get distracted and with this it is 123 and then I have an answer. 

## Closing - 2 Minutes

Great. Well, that is all the questions I have for you today. Is there anything else that we haven’t talked about that you’d like to share with me? my only issue is connectivity and I am not sure this is the right place for it. I will get kicked off when doing travel. This is when I am at home, they just now got Wi-Fi in the last two month and if they don’t have it then I wouldn’t be able to use this. Sometimes I will click the button to submit and it won’t work then I need to re-enter in the infomraiton and then to find out the claim was submitted 5 times. I never have appointments in my travel app, I have to screen shot to show I attended. I like that it is simple and I can do it when checking in and I wont forget. I still have claimed from two weeks ago I still need to submit and I know I have to have a solid 20 minutes to do it. The final insult form the va is the way they treat us. 

*Allow observers to leave.*

- Would you say that you were mostly nervous or mostly comfortable with having observers in this session? I was comfortable
- Sometimes we have the additional observers already in the session when you join, instead of how we did it today. When I asked you for consent before the observers joined this session, did you   that or did you feel that was mostly unnecessary? I appreciate it, if I joined after mark was in it and no one said it. it would have destroyed my trust. My responses wouldn’t have changed but it shows how the va treats people so it is extending to this but that wasn’t the case. 
- Thinking about the brief introductions with the observers, did that make you feel at ease with them listening in or did it feel more awkward? There was no change, it did not effect my feelings. 
