**Caregiver Usability Study Notes**

P1, Dec. 16, 2020, 12;00 PM EST

**Intro - 5 minutes**

**Moderator:** Thanks for joining us today! My name is Jonathan and I also have some colleagues on the line observing and taking notes. Today we're going to talk about federal benefits that are provided to family members or caregivers of Veterans.

**Veteran:** ok

Before we start, a few things I want to mention:

-   This entire session should take about 30 minutes. I want to be sure not to keep you much longer, so I may occasionally prompt you with the next question or topic.
-   In this session, we want to hear your honest opinions. We are not testing your ability. We just want to improve these tools to better meet Veteran's needs. I will not be offended by any opinions you express, and I welcome your feedback.
-   We will not be applying for any VA benefits today. Again, this is to get feedback and improve the tools.
-   Please talk aloud as you're looking through things. For example say "now I'd click on this.. what's this?" this helps me understand what's going through your head while using the tool.
-   To protect your privacy, we are not going to use your real name or Social Security Number today. Feel free to make-up a name, birthday, SSN...I can aways provide that information if you want
-   If for any reason and at any time you want to stop the session, please let me know.
-   Are you comfortable if I record my screen and audio as we talk today? We use the recordings to confirm that we have captured your opinions accurately. The recordings are destroyed after we complete analysis, and none of your comments will be attributed to you directly.

**Veteran:** Yeah, alright.

-   If yes:
-   Once I start recording, I am going to confirm that you are ok with me recording this session once more.

**Veteran:** Alright.

**Start recording to the Cloud**

-   I have started recording. I'd like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record my screen and the audio as we talk today?"

**Veteran:** Yes

**Warm-up Questions - 5 minutes**

**Moderator:** Can you tell me a little about yourself?

**Veteran:** I'm currently a veteran, as you know, I don't know if you do know. I served two tours in Iraq, possibly three, one in Germany. I was an employee of the VA until 2017. Then I was an employee of DOD, Department of Defense. I'm currently receiving benefits from the VA for a certain amount of things, disabilities from the tours of duty. I currently get my primary service at the [redacted] VA, which is pretty good. You know, I go and still get my care there. 

My wife, she takes care of some things I can't do when I had surgery for my disabilities. I tried to get her listed as a caregiver on my behalf but that was kinda difficult. So I don't know the status of what was going on with that because she has been taking care of me while I couldn't be taken care of for certain things. So, um, she do take care of me on some other disabilities I have, like keeping up with some of the things I can't remember or do, she does step into that place. So, yeah, I do struggle, and I struggle off and on, so I'm still living though, but it's alright. And that's it.

**Moderator:** Got it, and when you say you tried to get her listed as a caregiver and that was difficult, can you tell me a little bit more about that?

**Veteran:** She said, we sent in some paperwork for the caregiver program, because it was when I had surgery for one of the disabilties at the VA. I'm getting disability for it. I'm getting a percentage for that disability. We sent in a form, and it came back saying that, they gave us the run-around because there were some things I was unable to do like put clothes on, she helped me with, bathe me. It was some particular things that she had to do for me and I was unable to do that. You know what I mean? I couldn't do a lot of personal things. And my wife stepped in and was my caregiver on that note. So I tried to get into that program, she the spouse, she's eligible, I'm a veteran. Why can't she, you know flow into that program? But then we was getting letters saying she was unable, it was some kind of stipulation.

**Moderator:** Got it, so there was some reason that they gave you why she wasn't going to receive it, got it. 

**Veteran:** She can tell you more about it, what did they tell you about being a caregiver for me? What did they tell you? Didn't you get a letter? What was the reason why? Because I'm in the program and they wanna evaluate why you wasn't a primary caregiver, and I had surgery, and I'm a veteran.

**Caregiver:** No, I don't get benefits for that.

**Veteran:** Why, that's what I'm asking.

**Caregiver:** You work.

**Veteran:** Because I work, that's why.

**Caregiver:** Yeah.

**Veteran:** She said because I work. [laughs] Because my income is high.

**Moderator:** Got it. 

**Veteran:** She don't qualify for it.

**Caregiver:** If he was at 100% and not working, I could get benefits. I'm just a caregiver on paper because of the PTSD and stuff like that, and you know, your medical issues but I don't get money to take care of you.

**Moderator:** Got it. Thank you. Do you remember when you submitted this application? I'm not sure how long ago this was but was it a paper application that you submitted?

**Veteran:** Yes.

**Moderator:** Got it, and do you have any other people who you consider caregivers for you? 

**Veteran:** No 

**Moderator:** Just your wife and do you currently live with your wife?

**Veteran:** I guess my daughter and my sons when they're around and I can't do something they'll assist in getting whatever or something like that.

**Moderator:** Got it, got it and that totally makes sense. And do you currently live with your wife?

**Veteran:** Yes

**Moderator:** But your sons, they don't live with you? 

**Veteran:** Off and on, they're older, they come and go, they're like 25.

**Moderator:** Absolutely, thank you so much for sharing all that. What I'm going to do is send you a link to the caregiver benefits page through the chat here. Do you see that link?

**Veteran:** Yeah, I see it. 

**Moderator:** I'm going to ask that you click on that and share your screen. 

**Veteran:** Ok, here it is, you want me to share my screen. 

**Moderator:** Yep, ok great, in the chat, can you click on that VA.gov link that I sent? Because I can see your screen. So try to scroll down a little bit

**Veteran:** It won't open now, I clicked on it earlier, it did open up somewhere in there.

**Moderator:** Do you see the Gotomeeting tab, click on that.

**Veteran:** There's a dropdown on it.

**Moderator:** What does the dropdown say?

**Veteran:** The dropdown says edit name, preference, support, check audio statistics, about Gotomeeting.

**Moderator:** Let me go ahead and show you. Are you seeing my screen?

**Veteran:** I see your screen, it's like mountains. 

**Moderator:** Give me one second here. Do you see yourself?

**Veteran:** I see myself.

**Moderator:** At the top of the screen do you see a chat? 

**Veteran:** I see it.

**Moderator:** Can you click on that on your browser?

**Veteran:** I see it on your side, but not mine, it won't let me click on it, you just highlighted it, yeah.

**Moderator:** I'm going to highlight it and sent it again. When you click on it, what happens? 

**Veteran:** I clicked on it and nothing happens.

**Moderator:** Can you copy and paste it and put it in your browser?

**Veteran:** Ok, now you want me to put it in my browser?

**Moderator:** Yeah you can just open a new tab. Ok I'm going to go ahead and make you the presenter again. Ok, now Ken, you just muted yourself. Let me see if I can unmute you, great I can unmute you .

**First Task: [Applying for benefits] - 15 minutes**

**Moderator:** I know we talked a little about your situation, let's say, given the information you just gave me, you want to apply, reapply for benefit for you, for your caregiver through this program. Starting here on this page, can you walk me through how you would do this?

**Veteran:** K, matter of fact, we didn't even use this page. Wow, I didn't use this page.

**Moderator:** So can you just tell me what you're looking at and what you're thinking, reading

**Veteran:** We didn't use this page but it would be helpful. If we could have, would we have a better chance of receiving it.

**Moderator:** And why do you say that? It is a relatively new page. But why do you say you'd have a better chance of receiving it?

**Veteran:** Because what I see with everything here, she would be eligible. Because everything applies. Because I'm a veteran. "Eligibility requirements for the family caregiver." She's a spouse and "someone who lives full time with the veteran and willing to do so if designated as a family caregiver." Yes. Eligibility for the veteran, 2001 or higher, yeah, I have a 70% disability rating. Um, yeah. I've been discharged. I don't have a medical discharge but I have a honorable discharge and "6 months of continuous, in-person personal care services. She's done this.

**Moderator:** Great.Like I said before we're just going to test this tool, and so we won't be applying for the program and determining eligibility. But let's just say you did want to apply, can you walk me through how you would do that?

**Veteran:** How we did it?

**Moderator:** How you would do it with this form. 

**Veteran:** Oh how I would do it here, looks like I can apply online, it says you can apply right here online, "apply for caregiver assistance". And fill out the necessary information, or I could do it by mail and download the form here and mail it in. To the "program for comprehensive assistance for family caregivers." To Atlanta, Georgia. That's how I would do it from here.

**Moderator:** Ok, and you can go ahead and show me, would you click on that download, I'm sorry, would you click on and apply with a paper form? 

**Veteran:** Click on the Download VA?

**Moderator:** No, no, no, you just show me what you would do. 

**Veteran:** I would first try here, I'd go to caregiver assistance [clicks on green "Apply for caregiver assistance" button]. I'd download it here and I'd try to apply through here first. And start an application. [clicks on blue "Start your application" button] Click on the start application, fill out my name, social security number, my date of birth.

**Moderator:** And, again, this can just be mock data. 

**Veteran:** Why? I'm trying to get her to help me out and she's helping me out a lot.

**Moderator:** Right, and like I said before, we're not going to actually apply for benefits today we're just trying to improve this tool for veteran like you.

**Veteran:** Ok, do you think later on I can apply to it when you're finished bettering the tools?

**Moderator:** I can't really speak to that, I just work on the website, I can't determine eligibility or speak to that.

**Veteran:** I know you can't determine eligibility, I'm just saying should we apply, or wait for the tool gets better, you know, updated.

**Moderator:** Sure, can you tell me a little bit about what you're thinking when you're going through this form? 

**Veteran:** I'm thinking, wow, maybe it will work this time.

**Moderator:** What makes you think that? Or say that?

**Veteran:** Because of what I read, the information I received, I just seen that she's eligible. So I guess maybe she can get it this time.

**Moderator:** Can I stop you on this page before you hit continue? It seemed like, if you scroll up, it asks for when you last received medical treatment you seemed to have no problem with it.

**Veteran:** It is still the [redacted] VA. Oh, the name of it, [redacted] doesn't have a name for it, it's just the [redacted] facility. It's not like [redacted] got the Michael Crezenzo, or something like that, it doesn't have a name.

**Moderator:** Ok, you can go ahead and proceed with the form. 

**Veteran:** "Would you like to add a primary caregiver?" My primary caregiver is, that would be my doctor, right?

**Moderator:** What do you think? 

**Veteran:** Dr. [redacted], I guess, yeah that's what I think, Dr. [redacted]. That's his last name, don't know his first name, I don't know his social security, don't know his birth date. He's a male. My primary caregiver. Primary family caregiver, hold up, primary family caregiver. Will it have to be a doctor on the outside of the VA or a doctor on the inside within the VA services?

**Moderator:** Can you tell me a little bit more about why you think it's a doctor's information that you're providing here?

**Veteran:** Because it's a caregiver, that's a doctor. Oh, hold up, that's my wife! Caregiver. Primary family caregiver, yeah [laughs] Ok, thanks, Jonathan.

**Moderator:** No, I was more curious, all that information is really helpful. When you originally read it, you did want to provide your doctor's information

**Veteran:** Exactly.

**Moderator:** That was because of the caregiver...

**Veteran:** Yeah. I got it now, I picked up on it. She's the caregiver.

**Moderator:** Right, but just so I have a better idea, when you saw that page, you saw the term caregiver and you thought that would be a doctor, somebody providing medical care?

**Veteran:** Yes. I guess maybe it needs the wording in it, you know? But I had yo read it again, "primary family caregiver", she is the family... my wife does all the family caregiver work in the house. Everybody in the family here. 

My wife is the primary caregiver she is the family caregiver. She does all the paperwork, all the caregiver stuff. For my daughter she does her doctor visits. She does stuff for my sons, she does doctor stuff as well. She's the family caregiver. I would take it like that. 

[clicks to page 'step 2 of 4']

Now the street address, it would be the same as mine.

[participant enters his wife's information]

[clicks to "Health care coverage"]

[clicks to page 'step 3 of 4', Secondary family caregiver application information]

[clicks continue to 'step 4 of 4', Review application]

**Moderator:** I'm going to just stop you here, actually tell me what you're thinking when you're looking at this page. 

**Veteran:** I'm thinking that was pretty easy, that was pretty self explanatory. This is pretty helpful to the veterans who want to put their spouse on as their caregiver. Even the older veterans, you know, need help with, um, a lot of things in their personal life. Being a veteran because I've experienced that. When I go to meetings and I talk to a lot of older veterans, in my PTSD meetings, some veterans forget, their wife helped them remember. Some veterans can't do a lot of things because they need they spouse to help them. That's the caregiver work. 

This application is really self explanatory to them, it's so easy, and I love it.

**Post-Task Interview - 5 minutes**

**Moderator:** When you look at this page that we're on right now and let's just say you submitted the application successfully. Were you able to accomplish what you set out to? 

**Veteran:** No, I didn't, no.

**Moderator:** Ok. Because I will see the reason why, the previous denial. They said I worked. It doesn't say this on this application, "does the veteran work?" "What does he need help in?" It doesn't indicate that. It just indicates my eligibility, right? That makes me excited. Then it don't say coming down the line, "Do the veteran work? What does he need help with?" Because now when I submit this, I might get another denial letter, that may upset me. It may make me feel depressed. Ok, I have a wife and spouse, that's my caregiver, but we can't get no benefits from it because I work. And because I work that don't mean I don't need a caregiver. You know? 

**Moderator:** Right. I hear what you're saying. In terms of the form, was there anything that, I know you said you loved the experience, was there anything that particularly worked well? That you thought worked well with the form?

**Veteran:** What would work well with it, if you have a good connection with the internet. Yeah, if you have a good connection and it works and it flows right through. Yeah, it's gonna work. 

**Moderator:** Was there anything that didn't work well, anything that you found confusing? 

**Veteran:** Probably the meeting part and connecting with the share screen. But if it works well, you don't need nobody to share it with to help you through it. You can just go follow along, cuz like I said, it's self explainatory. 

**Moderator:** Do you have any questions for me about this form that we worked through today?

**Veteran:** Yes, but you could answer it, because like I said, the question is, I filled it out but how will the people examining the application, what are they gonna look at? You know, are they gonna look at just the application? Are they gonna look at, oh, does he really need caregiver work? You know, does he really need the caregiver. Yes, I've been married for some time, I need a caregiver. If she was sick, I'd be her caregiver

**Thank-You and Closing**

**Moderator:** Well we really appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us today. Your feedback is so helpful to us as we continue to improve our products and services for Veterans and service members.

Great, well thank you so much again, and enjoy the rest of your day!

**Veteran:** Ok, can I wait until after this to apply again on my own or should I wait to...

**Moderator:** This is just a, you can go find information on VA.gov about the caregiver benefits and then you can decide what's best for you. 

**Veteran:** Alright. 

**Moderator:** Alright, thank you. 

**Veteran:** Thank you.
