## Intro - 5 minutes

**Moderator:** Thanks for joining us today! My name is Jonathan and I also have some colleagues on the line observing and taking notes. Today we're going to talk about federal benefits that are provided to family members or caregivers of Veterans.


Before we start, a few things I want to mention::

- This entire session should take about 30 minutes. I want to be sure not to keep you much longer, so I may occasionally prompt you with the next question or topic.
- In this session, we want to hear your honest opinions. We are not testing your ability. We just want to improve these tools to better meet Veteran's needs. I will not be offended by any opinions you express, and I welcome your feedback.
- We will not be applying for any VA benefits today. Again, this is to get feedback and improve the tools.
- Please talk aloud as you're looking through things. For example say "now I'd click on this.. what's this?" this helps me understand what's going through your head while using the tool.
- To protect your privacy, we are not going to use your real name or Social Security Number today. Feel free to make-up a name, birthday, SSN...I can aways provide that information if you want
- If for any reason and at any time you want to stop the session, please let me know.
- Are you comfortable if I record my screen and audio as we talk today? We use the recordings to confirm that we have captured your opinions accurately. The recordings are destroyed after we complete analysis, and none of your comments will be attributed to you directly.
- If yes: 
- Once I start recording, I am going to confirm that you are ok with me recording this session once more.

**Start recording to the Cloud**

- I have started recording. I'd like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record my screen and the audio as we talk today?"

**Particpant:**

## Warm-up Questions - 5 minutes

**Moderator:** Moderator: Can you tell me a little about yourself? (Are you a Veteran with a caregiver? Caregiver with a Veteran?)

P: Wife or army Veteran, medically retired in 2010. line in NY. parents to 4 children 15, 9, 6, 3 I am his FT caregiver… we have a very busy life. 


**For Caregivers:**

- Tell me a bit about the relationship you have with the Veteran? 

P: wife

- Are they a family member or friend? 
- Do you live with the Veteran? 

P: Live with husband

- Do you receive any benefits from the VA? 
     - If yes, what sort of benefits? 
     
 P: I get my caregiver stipend. We get tricare because medically retired
 

- Does the Veteran  have more than one caregiver? 

P: No
     - If yes, can you tell me a bit about that relationship? 
     -  Are they a family member or friend? 
     -  Do they live with the Veteran? 
     
**Particpant:**

## First Task: [Applying for benefits] - 15 minutes

**Moderator:** Sharing screen

Someone else taking on caregiver 

Moderator: Ok, given the information above, imagine that you’re applying for benefits for you (or your caregivers) through the Program of Comprehensive Assistance for Family Caregivers. Starting here (start on the content page), walk me through how you would do this.

M: Can you show me how you would accomplish this, making them part of the program?
Participant: on this page? [scrolls thru] How would I?  Do I apply for the caregiver assistance, like for someone else? Like that green tab? [reads text under “How many caregivers can the eligible Veteran appoint?”]
Under how do I apply to the program, I don’t know if I would click the same thing cuz that looks like to me like that would be for a single person. No, I guess that’s what you'd click though. Cuz it says each time you want to add a new family caregiver you will need to submit a new application…

M: Got it. you can go ahead and show me how youd add the additional caregiver

P [clicks green button] I clicked on the application part of it. [scrolls down page] [sees Download link] you probably have to download the form.

M:Can you tell me a little more about that? What would you expect to happen if you clicked on download the form.

P: What I normally do when I do stuff like this is I download the form. I  print them. I don’t know if there's ever a way to do it on the computer but I never do that i always download, print and upload it into eBenefits. 

M: Got it. If there was a way, do you see any other way

P: you could call? Yeah it says you could call the natl support line or caregiver coordinator

M do you remember when you filled it our was it the paper form

P: I’ve been on for 12 years (laughs)

M: has her scroll to the bottom. I’m going to prompt you. Do you see the blue button that says start your application?

P: clicks

M:  tell me what your thinking. If you want to add someone to the program what would you do

P: I would put all of Matt's information. 

M: You can put john smith and make up his social

P: This doesn’t save anywhere does it?

M: Nope you can make up information. Just has to be 9 digits 

M: Tell me what you’d be entering

P: Veterans street address...Ok, so, recent medical care so I would put Buffalo VA, um, hospital, no clinic, I’m sorry. [reads under her breadth the “VA health care services” ] So now it’s asking where we would go. VA Medical Center Buffalo. OK and so it says would you like to add a primary caregiver. So wouldn't I still be the primary caregiver?

M: what do you think

P: I feel like I would still be the primary. I think the other would be a back up not the primary so I don’t know what I would put there

M: where would you go get more information

P: expands “what’s a primary family caregiver”...reads “is the main caregiver”, so no.

So, I do not want to add a primary. I would still say no. Clicks no radio button. [Now sees secondary caregiver option] Alright secondary caregiver… would you like to.. So Yes. so make up this stuff too? So now I would just  be filling in the secondary caregivers address and their phone number. Ok, the relationship. it could be sister and then so I’m at the point where it says I could add up to 2 secondary caregivers.. So no.

M: Can you tell me a little bit about what you’re thinking about the secondary caregiver

P: I wouldn’t add the first one. [laughs] I feel like that would be too many. I don’t know/ I wouldn't even want one after me. I know how to take care of him. No one else does But that’s just our situation. Sometimes family dynamics are different like another parent lives in the house as well; we just don’t have that type of dynamic. 

M: show me what you would do on this screen to submit the application
OK just enter (Enter Veteran’s full name)… [checks the box] and then…[fills in her name] ok so then submit?

M: [stops her]. Let’s just pause. I want to ask you about adding a secondary primary caregiver. You don’t have to navigate.. When you clicked on that little dropdown menu, Can you tell me a little more about what you were thinking when you were on that screen

P: Well at first it confused me, I wasn’t sure if it was asking for a secondary caregiver or however they stated it, I was confused by the question, but then once I went on it was very clear and once I said No it was very clear. 

M: Is there anything that would make that more clear?

P: would you like to add a primary and would you like to add a secondary right on one screen. 

M: Go ahead and submit.

P: This is all made up right this doesn’t… 

M: right we’re not submitting anything

[submits]

Gets error…

P we didn’t receive your application... something went wrong. So I don't know. [scrolls up and down many times. tries again] no it's not giving me a submit button… it looks like its giving me the option to put in the Veteran’s name, again but then there’s nothing to submit it… there’s just a button that says go back to VA.gov.  

M: Got it. Then with that what would you do to find a resolution?

P: I would just call the help desk.


  
## Post-Task Interview - 5 minutes

M: We can just stop there.

M: Were you able to accomplish what you set out to do today? Let's say submission was successful. 

P: Yes, then if it went through, then yes. 

M: What did you think of the overall experience in completing this form?

P: It was very self explanatory except those two things should have been on the same page, primary and/or secondary. 

M: Why do you think

P: Because  I feel like a lot of people could be confused by that. I mean one dropdown box asking for both things on the same page it would not be confusing cuz its right in front of your face.  And I mean caregivers are stressed as it is if we got to think too much about stuff. I’m sorry, It’s a little. It needs to be more in your face what they’re asking.

M: Do you remember if you filled out this form? If so, how did you do it? Together with the caregiver/veteran?

M: What worked well?

P: Was to the point quick, not too many questions asked. After that part. Nothing wrong with it, it was smooth sailing.

M: Would you fill it out on your own?

P: Yes
 
M: Any questions for me?

Participant: no


## Thank-You and Closing 

Well we really appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us today. Your feedback is so helpful to us as we continue to improve our products and services for Veterans and service members.

Great, well thank you so much again, and enjoy the rest of your day!

