
Caregiver Usability Study Notes
=============================================

Participant#, Date, Time 

## Intro - 5 minutes

**Moderator:** Thanks for joining us today! My name is Jonathan and I also have some colleagues on the line observing and taking notes. Today we're going to talk about federal benefits that are provided to family members or caregivers of Veterans.


Before we start, a few things I want to mention::

- This entire session should take about 30 minutes. I want to be sure not to keep you much longer, so I may occasionally prompt you with the next question or topic.
- In this session, we want to hear your honest opinions. We are not testing your ability. We just want to improve these tools to better meet Veteran's needs. I will not be offended by any opinions you express, and I welcome your feedback.
- We will not be applying for any VA benefits today. Again, this is to get feedback and improve the tools.
- Please talk aloud as you're looking through things. For example say "now I'd click on this.. what's this?" this helps me understand what's going through your head while using the tool.
- To protect your privacy, we are not going to use your real name or Social Security Number today. Feel free to make-up a name, birthday, SSN...I can aways provide that information if you want
- If for any reason and at any time you want to stop the session, please let me know.
- Are you comfortable if I record my screen and audio as we talk today? We use the recordings to confirm that we have captured your opinions accurately. The recordings are destroyed after we complete analysis, and none of your comments will be attributed to you directly.
- If yes: 
- Once I start recording, I am going to confirm that you are ok with me recording this session once more.

**Start recording to the Cloud**

- I have started recording. I'd like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record my screen and the audio as we talk today?"

**Particpant:**

## Warm-up Questions - 5 minutes

**Moderator:** Can you tell me a little about yourself? (Are you a Veteran with a caregiver? Caregiver with a Veteran?) 

P: I am the wife of a disabled Veteran.. What else do you want to know I have 2 kids, I...you know...


**For Caregivers:**

- Tell me a bit about the relationship you have with the Veteran? 

P: wife

- Are they a family member or friend? 
- Do you live with the Veteran?

P: Yes, I’m looking at him

- Do you receive any benefits from the VA? 
     - If yes, what sort of benefits? 
P: No. Not me personally.. My husband does. I’ve never. Other than marrying him that's the extent of the military duty [laughs].

[is sharing] needs to copy and paste the link to get it to work

**Particpant:**

## First Task: [Applying for benefits] - 15 minutes

**Moderator:** Ok, given the information above, imagine that you’re applying for benefits for you (or your caregivers) through the Program of Comprehensive Assistance for Family Caregivers. Starting here (start on the content page), walk me through how you would do this.

**Particpant:**
Well I would scroll down and look to see where I can apply… is there an apply button there? There we are.  How do I apply.. There’s the little green box “Apply for caregiver assistance” do you want me to click on that? Here we go. Let’s hope it works. There we are. Then I’d scroll down. And it says start your application. I may or may not read these steps just because you know depends on how much time I’ve got and if I care to read them. I’m just scrolling. Click on the blue box “start your application” and I’d fill it out. As you see it's going to auto populate on me. 

M: makes up info. I know we’re making it up but what info?

P: Oh, sure. It would be the Veteran’s first name for my husband's first name, last name… you can make it up

M: on social just enter 99 not in order. Needs one more digit

P: Got it ok. That works. I put in my husband's birthday and gender and quick check [scrolls up and down] everything works. Nothing is red. And I would hit the blue continue button and then his address. And city of where I use to live and pretend zip code, that works, and phone number. OK.  The you would put an alternate number if you had one which I can skip. And an email address.

M: And the email address, I know you’re just making that up but can you tell me about that.

P: for the primary I’d put my husband's cell phone number and then alternate we have a house number. And for the Veterans, I’d put in my husband's email, I hope this isn't real, re enter it as a verification, hit the blue continue button. 

P:Name of medical facility? I don’t know, can I make one up? If I came I would put in the real one. It would either be the clinic closest to our house or Chantilly hospital down in Tampa. I just didn't know the name of the one up by us. I just know where it is. 

M: Got it, so if that was the situation, what would you enter?

P: I’d probably put it... on Little road so I’d put the VA outpatient clinic on Little road. I’m sure they could figure that out, [types in “VA Outpatient Clinic New Port Richey”] I’m pretty sure that might be what it's called . If it's a hospital or a clinic and it's a clinic. And I scroll down. I have to select state. And then it might come up [Uner “VA medical center”] I pick the medical center and the hospital closest to us in the dropdown box and I know the one he's gone to in the past. I’d click the blue button. Would you like to add? Yes,… Primary caregiver? Yes, I do.  And now iI have to do my information {sighs, “OK”}
Then I put my name and then I have to put in my social security number… then I have to enter my birthday, fabulous and then put in my male or female and hit continue and then my current street address and then the city I live in … does it matter? I put in my address and then my phone number and normally that would be my cell phone and then an alternate phone number for me and my email address or if I was doing this for somebody else, whoever the primary caregiver would be .. And my relationship to the Veteran.

M:And you mentioned that you were filling it out for somebody else, can you tell me a little bit more about what you meant by that?

P: Um, let’s say, well I’ll put it this way, my mom was going to be a caregiver for my dad but my mom is not really good on the computer so if I were helping somebody because either A, they don’t have the internet, because there are people who don’t have it. Surprising enough. Or if it was somebody who couldn’t do this, because technology, its not going to work. You know. If this is for a relative or a friend who says hey help me out. I will hit continue. Now, Health coverage..,Let's say no and see what happens.

M: And..

P: That's actually true. I’m wondering if it would take you to a page where you don’t have to fill out your healthcare info or if you don’t have healthcare, contact these people. If I said yes I would make me fill out insurance. Ok. [reads] Would you like to add a  secondary caretaker… would you like me to. 

M: Tell me what you are thinking about

P: When i see that I think that there would be another person another adult able to do this and maybe an older person and maybe an adult child or wife or parent of a Veteran could also be a caregiver . In our case it's me. So no. Then you would review the application. You would click the little plus sign, make sure you didn’t make a mistake. Let's just take a quick look. I could click the blue button if I needed to edit. Click the blue check box. Enter Veterans full name [does it] and I click yes, and everything is correct, and hit the blue submit application. Read the little statement although most people don't. Then I type in my name and check the box that everything is correct.
[before submitting]

M: Let’s stop there. Lets say you clicked it and were able to submit


  
## Post-Task Interview - 5 minutes

**Moderator:** Great. A few last questions:

M: Were you able to accomplish what you set out to do today?

P: yes, I assumed I was successful. I think it's easy and straightforward to do. I assume you’d get a confirmation page that you’d submitted and you’re good. And you know further information that someone will contact you in X number of time. 

M: What did you think of the overall experience in completing this form?
 
P: I think it's very easy straightforward and not difficult at all. Nothing that would throw me for a loop. I noticed in some of them you could click  “why do you need my social” and it would answer any of your questions. You could call someone. Very straightforward even for someone who had limited experience with this sort of thing, an older person. Very easy to do. No different than filling out a paper form. 
 
M: Do you remember if you filled out this form? If so, how did you do it? Together with the caregiver/veteran?

M: If you were filling out for bennies/ Would you fill it out on your own

P: Yes

M: Anything could be easier? 

P: No not for me. I not only fill out but also create forms like this.I could see maybe for an older person that's not as familiar might get a little confused but not about the form being complicated but about the process. 

M: Anything could be easier? 

P: No I think this form is great you guys did a great job. 

[submits]

M: I’m going to have you submit. 

P: Something went wrong and I can’t submit the form online. OK. So take a look. It wants me to review the application to make sure I did everything correctly and print it. Download it. Print it. Sign it. OK. What to do if I need help. Click to download my application. It doesn’t look… what is this, another statement. Ok, if in fact this was it I would in fact, I would download, print it, sign it, and mail it to these people in Atlanta, Georgia.

M: you were scrolling through anything you expected to see?

P:  Just to see If I missed anything important or of its just general stuff. And now wondering if I have to fill that out? That’s weird. Would I have to fill that out? That’s kinda weird that it's even there. Yeah, I would think just download the application and mailing it back. Only issue is if someone doesn't have a printer. There should be a way for someone to… not everyone has a printer. You know?

M: Any other questions?

P: No not really other than this weirdness with this statement of truth. Kind of strange being down there. And again someone may not have access to a printer. They won’t be able to download, print and sign. But they could potentially send the PDF to somebody. Maybe email a completed PDF over. Other than that everything else is good.


**Particpant:**

## Thank-You and Closing 

Well we really appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us today. Your feedback is so helpful to us as we continue to improve our products and services for Veterans and service members.

Great, well thank you so much again, and enjoy the rest of your day!

