Caregiver Usability Study Notes
=============================================

Participant #12, Date: 12/18/20, Time: 12pm EST

## Intro - 5 minutes

**Moderator:** Thanks for joining us today! My name is Jonathan and I also have some colleagues on the line observing and taking notes. Today we're going to talk about federal benefits that are provided to family members or caregivers of Veterans.

**Participant:** I’m very familiar with the form. I’ve filled it out for myself and others several times. 

Before we start, a few things I want to mention::

- This entire session should take about 30 minutes. I want to be sure not to keep you much longer, so I may occasionally prompt you with the next question or topic.
- In this session, we want to hear your honest opinions. We are not testing your ability. We just want to improve these tools to better meet Veteran's needs. I will not be offended by any opinions you express, and I welcome your feedback.
- We will not be applying for any VA benefits today. Again, this is to get feedback and improve the tools.
- Please talk aloud as you're looking through things. For example, say "now I'd click on this.. what's this?" This helps me understand what's going through your head while using the tool.
- To protect your privacy, we are not going to use your real name or Social Security Number today. Feel free to make-up a name, birthday, SSN...I can always provide that information if you want
- If for any reason and at any time you want to stop the session, please let me know.
- Are you comfortable if I record my screen and audio as we talk today? We use the recordings to confirm that we have captured your opinions accurately. The recordings are destroyed after we complete analysis, and none of your comments will be attributed to you directly.
- If yes: 
- Once I start recording, I am going to confirm that you are ok with me recording this session once more.

**Participant:** No problem

**Start recording to the Cloud**

- I have started recording. I'd like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record my screen and the audio as we talk today?"

**Participant:** Yes Sir

## Warm-up Questions - 5 minutes

**Participant:** I am the daughter of 2 WWII veterans. My dad is 97. He was in General Patton’s army. He is 100% total and permanent, bronze star and purple heart. We are in the southern part of the country. I’m a full time caregiver and he is a level 2 veteran. 

**Moderator:** Are you caregiving for another veteran?

**Participant:** I’m also a caregiver for my mom, she is a veteran, she was in the Navy my dad was in the Army. 

**Moderator:** Are you currently living with the veterans?

**Participant:** Yes, 24/7.

**Moderator:** Are you receiving benefits from the VA?

**Participant:** I was approved on the 12th of November, got a Notification on November 13th. Got my stipend check on December 4th.

**Moderator:** Was this for the caregiver program?

**Participant:** Yes 

**Moderator:** Is that to be a caregiver for both of your parents?

.**Participant:** No, my mother died in 2007. From my understanding if you care for 2 veterans you get 2 stipends but I’m not sure though. 

**Moderator:** I’m not sure either. Thank you for providing that information. Do you have anyone else that provides care to the veteran?

**Participant:**  24/7 me only. No one else is skilled enough. HHA who come in are not skilled enough. I have 2 master degrees and they aren’t skilled enough. 

**Moderator:** When you applied for the program did you apply online or the paper form?

**Participant:** I did it 3 ways. I did it online with the old form in January 2020. I did online on my phone October 1st because the date was wrong and I didn’t want to loose the backpay. I did the paper and the form online which wasn’t available until October 1st. I’ve helped numerous caregiver’s fill out the form. The form on the phone is a challenge. I can tell you what happened. On the iphone, to put the date in is a challenge. Took me 40 minutes to do it on my phone in the parking lot.

**Moderator:** Thank you for sharing that, that’s extremely helpful. 

**Participant:** When you get the receipt that you are now eligible, I don’t know how to screenshot on an iphone. There was no way to email the confirmation. For the seniors, I’m not a senior but some of the caregiver’s are, they don’t know how to do screenshots on their phones. On the confirmation screen, you need to have an email field to send the confirmation to that would be fantastic.

## First Task: [Applying for benefits] - 15 minutes

**Moderator:** I’m going to go ahead and ask you to share your screen. I’m going to make you the presenter. I know you’ve been through this form before and you’ve applied for benefits. Lets just say that someone else has also taken on some responsibilities for your father. Can you show me how you would accomplish this?

**Participant:** I am well familiar with this. It says apply online. I would use the booklet that the VA has on their website and I would read that. Then I would click apply online. I would direct the caregiver to this and make sure they’ve read everything. All of this information would be shared with the person that is applying. Are you willing to live with the veteran? All the criteria is there and spelled out. 

**Moderator:** If you landed on this page and wanted to add someone what would you do?

**Participant:** I would click on the green button, “apply for caregiver assistance” 

**Moderator:** Then I would click on the blue button, “start your application”

**Participant:** I would enter in all this information

**Moderator:** Whose information would you enter here?

**Participant:** My dad’s, the veterans information. Simple simple simple. John Smith, whatever.

**Moderator:** Make up an address for me

**Participant:** 101 Military Road West Palm Beach, FL 10000

**Moderator:** If you were entering this phone number, would it be your phone number?

**Participant:** Yes, it would be my phone number and email. Since the veteran doesn’t use his email it would be the same for the both of us. Click blue “continue button.” (Now on step 1 of 4, veteran information page)

**Moderator:** When you were talking about the scrolling state field, it was difficult on mobile?

**Participant:** You had to click on it, it was hard. Was this the screen that you were having the issue? On desktop it is easy on mobile it was hard. I’ve filled out this form probably 20 times. Click blue “continue button.”

**Moderator:** When you were clicking on yes to add a primary caregiver can you tell me why you clicked yes?

**Participant:** Oh, since I’m a primary caregiver, I’m the first one in line to take care of the veteran. Ok last name, social security number, keep going, whatever. There are alot of issues with names, especially hispanic names, this form was getting confused what names to put in. I was helping someone yesterday and they had a long middle name, and it had a maximum amount of characters for the middle name. 

**Moderator:** That makes sense, can you tell me where to go from here?

**Participant:** When I was helping someone out yesterday, she put her name in different in 2 different spots. That’s why it took 40 minutes on the phone. Click on “next.” For address it should say same as above, why do we have to put in all this extra information? If it is redundant, why can’t we just say same as veteran and all this information populate? This is too hard for caregivers, they are not tech savvy.

**Moderator:** I understand your suggestion to have it auto fill in. 

**Participant:** Auto populate. Right. You have to keep entering everything a million times. For the date of birth you have to make sure everything is the same. There is no way to copy and paste here. It’s alot of work. Keep going, keep going. It would be child or daughter or whatever. The dropdowns are a challenge on a mobile device. And there’s no way on mobile device to save this document and send it to yourself once you complete this. When you are done there should be an option to save, print or email it to yourself. Because here you can print it out. You should have the save to your email or print. Yes, continue.

**Participant:** For adding a second caregiver, yes because you want me to do it that way. Yes, would you like to add a second family caregiver. Yes. My sister should probably be sitting next to me but since I know all her information by heart I could do it. 

**Moderator:** I know I gave you a scenario to add a second caregiver and you would click yes here and you talked about all your sister’s information. Can you tell me about what you would do?

**Participant:** We are only 4 digits apart on social security numbers. Everything is done with her consent of course. My sister lives in Las Vegas. So we fill that out. After we finish we have to electronically sign. And date it. And form populates that it’s been approved and submitted. This whole form should be emailed to us. 

**Moderator:** The whole form should be emailed, filled out?

**Participant:** We need a copy for our records. The form is so fast, it’s there in 2 hours sometimes, in Atlanta. I would be nice if there was a confirmation number that was randomly generated after it’s been recieved. Some sort of coding. I hope I’m not being too detailed for you. 

**Moderator:** No, this is all great information. With this screen here. When you filled out the secondary caregiver information. Can you tell me what you are thinking when you would get to this question?

**Participant:** Do I have someone or do I want someone? I would have to get permission. It should have told me to get consent, there are no instructions. 

**Moderator:** I know you’ve seen this before. Does this look familiar?

**Participant:** I love this form, it is so easy but it’s really hard on a cell phone. It would be also nice to have links to resources, the 10 page booklet explaining the entire process. I’m not sure if you are familiar with the booklet? If you have any questions refer to this. There should be a link.

**Moderator:** You find that booklet helpful when completing this form?

**Participant:** It would help to cut down on VA customer phone calls. Caregivers don’t know acronyms when they are completing this. You need a go to simple book that was published by the VA. For further information, you click on this booklet. That would be amazing. 

## Post-Task Interview - 5 minutes

**Moderator:** I know you’ve been through this form before. But do you think you were you able to accomplish what you set out to do today?

**Participant:** Yes, absolutely. This is not hard. The woman I was helping yesterday it took 40 minutes. Her’s was tiny on a phone screen. This is simple for me. With someone with 2 master’s degrees this was not hard.

**Moderator:** Was there anything else other than the mobile experience that were blockers? 

**Participant:** It’s hard to find the link to apply for this online. Alot of times people will just call the VA national caregivers phone line and they will walk you through it. I don’t know how you can make this link easier, and most caregivers don’t have printers, on a phone, I don’t have a printer. I also gave a booklet with all the links… are you familiar with the 10 page booklet? If you go on the caregiver website it has the whole program spelled out. I gave it to the VA library to help people out fill out the application. This would help the caregivers that are not tech-savvy fill the out the form online. It’s a new book on the caregiver website.

## Thank-You and Closing 

**Moderator:** That’s great information and super helpful. Do you have any last questions for me?

**Participant:** This for me was simple but for others I’ve seen people struggle. Even yesterday when I sat in the hot Florida sun sitting in the hot sun doing this. It would be easier if the librarians at the VA could do this? Or if someone else could get a secure link to fill this out on behalf of someone else. 

**Moderator:** We really appreciate the time to share your thoughts and your feedback was super helpful to improve these products.

**Participant:** Thanks, and I hope to see some of my suggestions implemented. 
  

