Caregiver Usability Study Notes
=============================================

Participant #13, Date: 12/18/20, Time: 12:30pm EST

## Intro - 5 minutes

**Moderator:** Thanks for joining us today! My name is Jonathan and I also have some colleagues on the line observing and taking notes. Today we're going to talk about federal benefits that are provided to family members or caregivers of Veterans.

**Participant:** Ok

Before we start, a few things I want to mention::

- This entire session should take about 30 minutes. I want to be sure not to keep you much longer, so I may occasionally prompt you with the next question or topic.
- In this session, we want to hear your honest opinions. We are not testing your ability. We just want to improve these tools to better meet Veteran's needs. I will not be offended by any opinions you express, and I welcome your feedback.
- We will not be applying for any VA benefits today. Again, this is to get feedback and improve the tools.
- Please talk aloud as you're looking through things. For example, say "now I'd click on this.. what's this?" This helps me understand what's going through your head while using the tool.
- To protect your privacy, we are not going to use your real name or Social Security Number today. Feel free to make-up a name, birthday, SSN...I can always provide that information if you want
- If for any reason and at any time you want to stop the session, please let me know.
- Are you comfortable if I record my screen and audio as we talk today? We use the recordings to confirm that we have captured your opinions accurately. The recordings are destroyed after we complete analysis, and none of your comments will be attributed to you directly.
- If yes: 
- Once I start recording, I am going to confirm that you are ok with me recording this session once more.

**Participant:** Of course, no problem.

**Start recording to the Cloud**

- I have started recording. I'd like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record my screen and the audio as we talk today?"

**Participant:** Yes.

## Warm-up Questions - 5 minutes

**Moderator:** Can you tell me a little bit about yourself?

**Participant:**  I’m a caregiver for a post 9/11 veteran who was medically retired from the Marine Core in 2011. I work in a nonprofit supporting veterans, families and caregivers. I have a 12 year son and I just completed my master’s degree from Colorado Technical University.

**Moderator:** Great. Are you receiving any benefits from the VA?

**Participant:** Currently, no.

**Moderator:** So your veteran is your husband, and you are currently living with the veteran?

**Participant:** Yes. 

**Moderator:** Is there anyone else that provides caregiver duties to your husband?

**Participant:** Besides me? Not really. My 12 year old son does light caregiving here and there. He helps with medication reminders and he is also very good at making sure his dad has eaten at regular intervals. So it’s kind of a family effort, just me and my son. 

**Moderator:** Thanks for sharing that information. I’m going to ask you to share your screen. So you’ll be the presenter. 

**Participant:** Ok

## First Task: [Applying for benefits] - 15 minutes

**Moderator:** Given the information that you provided before, and you decided you wanted to apply for caregiver benefits through this program, can you walk me through how you would do this?

**Participant:** Ok so I’m on the Program of Comphrehensive Assistance page. I would make sure that I read through all of this. If you take time to read this versus just scrolling down to click on the apply button. I like right here “am I eligible section,” this is very helpful. I would make sure I met all the eligibility requirements. This is good that this is in bold that the veteran needs to at a disability rating of 70 or higher. The one thing that is unclear to me is these dates. My husband served after 9/11. But then on or before 1975, but what about the caregivers in between 1975-2001? I don’t understand why they aren’t included here. The veteran must have been discharged or have been medically discharged and need care for 6 months. I would definitely make sure I read all of this. I like that it’s in blue. Ok, so that might have some information about those dates because I had some questions there. Personal care services, again, I would make sure I know what those were. Ok, so how many caregivers can the veteran appoint? So there can be a primary caregiver and a secondary caregiver. A secondary is a backup person when needed. For me, that’s a challenge for me because I could have his mom but geographically we aren’t connected but could serve as that as needed. 

**Moderator:** If you had questions about your situation with the mom being apparent from you all, where would you go for more information on that?

**Participant:** I would probably google that, or search on the VA website. It would be helpful if primary and secondary caregivers were underlined and links so I could click on that. There should be more information on what counts as a primary and secondary caregiver that would be very helpful. Primary caregivers can get training, mental health counseling, travel and financial assistance. See how this link says “learn more about Champs VA?” That is very helpful for people that need medical assistance. 

**Participant:** At least 30 days of respite care for the veteran. Some people don’t know what respite care is, so maybe that could be highlighted and linked to respite care and services for veterans. Especially for caregivers, respite is vitally important. There is some stigma, misunderstanding and guilt involved with that. That should be built into the regular application that respite care is needed that would go a long way. 

**Participant:** Ok, so how do we apply? In the past I probably would have scrolled through the whole thing and wouldn’t read anything. Oh, here is the button and just go. I think it’s wise that this green button is on the bottom. There should be a confirmation the user clicks on to make sure you have read and seen the eligibility requirements. You don’t want people to waste their time applying for something that they aren’t eligible for. 

**Participant:** Ok, so you can also apply by mail. Does it need to be mailed by certified mail? Would you get a receipt? Or you can drop it off in person. This is helpful because if you are new, you don’t know if you should have a caregiver support coordinator or that most VA centers have one so this directory is great. Love the caregiver hotline. Ok, so here it says what if the veteran doesn’t meet the criteria? Again, I think I would put something here that says “keep scrolling if you don’t meet this criteria to learn more.” These are other programs and services that can be very helpful to someone even if they aren’t eligible for the comprehensive program.

**Participant:** (looking at the “what if the veteran isn’t enrolled in the VA health care yet? Section of this page). Oh, this is good if the veteran isn’t enrolled yet. Because it often times I will say that it is a family member or a caregiver that reaches out on behalf of the veteran especially if they need care or if there is a caregiver need - aging, a cognitive issue. So often times it is the caregiver or the family member that would reach out for this, so this is awesome.

**Moderator:** When you say reach out would this be in your role through the non-profit?

**Participant:** No, this is just me as a caregiver.

**Moderator:** Just out of curiosity, have you applied for the program before?

**Participant:** I was in the program many years ago. We removed ourselves because our situation has changed. We are fully eligible for the program of Comprehensive Assistance being our veteran meets all of the eligibility requirements. I stay connected through the general program because that meets my needs better right now. 

**Moderator:** Ok, can you show me how you would apply for the program?

**Participant:** I would definitely go for the online option. I’m excited that this is available and I have not seen this yet so I’m excited to see what it looks like. (Clicks on green apply for caregiver assistance button)

**Participant:** So what I would do is move the prepare text above the start your application button. You want to make sure that people have read through this before they apply. Or make them scroll through this and read this so they are prepared and ready. Oh good, it says it will take you 15 minutes. I do like having the button at the bottom but the top button I would move down to the bottom. There is nothing more frustrating than getting started and finding out you need something off DET14 or from the DOD and I have to stop and go get it. It’s good to know that I have to get all of these materials in advance. 

**Participant:** So I would click on start my application. My veteran’s name is Bob. Veteran’s social security number. Veteran’s date of birth. 

**Moderator:** Is this all information that you would know?

**Participant:** Yes. Being a military wife, I know his information better than I know my own. (Looking at Veteran’s sex) Only having 2 options here as male and female as things progress I would have an “other” radio button here. There are more than those 2 genders and having an “other” or all the other ways that could go... that would be nice to have. (clicks blue continue button)

**Participant:** (Looking at the need help? section) This is also helpful. If you don’t have all these things you can call here. The tool and here’s the stuff for forms and hearing loss. Veterans street address, state, telephone number. Ok so here, for telephone number, sometimes the veteran doesn’t have a telephone number. It could be better to put my own phone number in here. If the VA is going to call this number, my husband doesn’t have the cognitive ability to take that call. If they ask him if it’s ok to talk to me sometimes that works. Sometimes he doesn’t answer his phone. Having the veteran or caregiver phone number is helpful. I don’t know if they are tracking it that way.

**Moderator:** If you were filling out the form whose number would you put there?

**Participant:** Mine. People don’t have home phones necessarily anymore. If we had a home phone I would put that in there. I would list my phone number first and the veteran’s phone second so they would have all of that. When the VA calls, they would be calling someone that would most likely answer and help with the care. If they did need to speak directly with my husband, I can also facilitate that much easier then them reaching out to him directly.

**Participant:** Anytime I need to enter in my email address twice I’m worried I’m setting up an account for something. I don’t know if that is what is happening here. Do I need to create a password? Why are you re-entering the email address? Maybe it’s just to verify that they have typed it in correctly. If it’s because I’m setting up an account that would be helpful to know. 

**Moderator:** Can you tell me about what you’re thinking here?

**Participant:** So recent medical care. I’m going to put in a VA medical center even though he is getting community care. Because I know the VA would look at the records and could easily access those. Say he goes to regular physical therapy and I just put that in, I don’t know if they would be able to access that in regards to veterans benefits. I would always put in the VA medical center because that is what they are asking for anyway. Ok so here it asks for the VA medical center. So then I would go, oh no, actually we went to John’s PT so then they would know that he regularly goes to physical therapy.

**Participant:** Would you like to add a primary caregiver? Yes. And so here it says what’s a primary caregiver. This (accordion with information that expands out) that tells the user what a family caregiver is, this is really helpful. And a secondary. So that’s a little confusing that it’s talking about a primary caregiver here and a secondary. There’s no button explaining what a secondary caregiver is. It should say something about what the eligibility is for a secondary caregiver. Can it be a family member from another state that flys in sometimes? Can it be another veteran that comes over to help out? It would be helpful to know what the eligibility is and what counts as a secondary family caregiver. Maybe because it’s the VA. I don’t know if they are checking to see if they can be the veteran. This is great but maybe it could be their battle buddy. So I would have another category for vetera here.

**Participant:**  (on step 2 of 4) Ok, so I would enter in my name. So then my social security. Again, I think some people get nervous about this. Why are you collecting the social security number, how are you going to use this. I have not seen anything yet about the safety and security of this website. In other applications, especially when you are asking for people’s social, I know veterans, caregivers, and families will be hesitant. I would have a note about the security precautions and what the site does to protect people’s identity. 

**Participant:**  Again, the sex have an “other” option. 

**Participant:**  Ok, the address. One question I would wonder. Difference between the primary and secondary caregiver. Do I have to live with the veteran? Should this be the veterans address?

**Moderator:**  Just so I’m clear, would you have questions if these fields need to match?

**Participant:**  Yes. Does the primary caregiver need to live at the same address as the veteran? And are they verifying that, and does that have anything to do with eligibility? All those questions would come up naturally for me. We’ve already collected the veterans information and now they are collecting mine. I would just have questions about that. 

**Moderator:** You mentioned the secondary caregiver. Can you tell me more about what you were thinking?

**Participant:** It says primary family caregiver here. If there was a secondary caregiver, is it assumed that caregiver also lives with the veteran? Where would their address go? Do they have to live with the veteran? Those types of things. 

**Participant:** I would put in my own cell phone number. I would also put the veterans phone number in here as an alternative just in case. My email address. Again it’s asking for my email twice. Why?

**Participant:** Relationship and what if you didn’t identify as any of these? Other? Relative? Could be another veteran that helps out. 

**Participant:** Does the primary caregiver have healthcare coverage? Yes, I do I have TriCare. So I would read through all of that. Ok, here it has what the secondary caregiver is. Do we have a secondary caregiver. I’m just going to say yes.

**Moderator:** When you clicked the accordion for more information for secondary caregiver was that helpful?

**Participant:** No. I think most people when they are thinking about the secondary caregiver, it’s another family member but I don’t know if that can be someone that comes in very rarely. Maybe I would want someone in there as a secondary caregiver so they can get some training and education and understand a little bit more about what I’m going through as the primary caregiver. Or maybe it would be presented as a way to encourage people to get more benefits from the VA and more involved in the care. So here, for me I would not be able to continue. Because I’m not going to call my mother in law and ask her for her social security number to put her in here. I would just scratch it from here because I can’t explain this to her and she probably wouldn't want to give me her social security number to do this anyway. This would involve a larger family conversation, I would have to bring my husband in. We would probably have to have a call about what this was. Again, I’m not even sure she would be interested in doing it. But it might help me identify someone that would be. Maybe my own mom? I know she would step up and help. We would have to make sure that the veteran, my husband was aware of all of this. I know he is fine with me, but adding a secondary might change the family dynamic.

**Moderator:** So this would be a blocker for you (adding a secondary caregiver). Can you tell me more about what you would do?

**Participant:** It says all of these form fields are required for secondary caregiver. Can I continue or can I go back? Is there a back button? Ok so here, I can go back and change my mind and say no, I don’t want to add a secondary caregiver. 

**Moderator:** Would you still submit the application or would you come back another time to submit it?


**Participant:** I would probably still apply but this would also trigger conversations with my veteran about that secondary caregiver, who it potentially could be. But I would also wonder can I come back and add a secondary caregiver another time? It should say if you don’t want to add a secondary caregiver now, you can add one in the future and these are the steps.

**Participant:** Oh so the veteran needs to sign the statement of truth. I would hope everyone that is filling out this form that their veteran is aware of it. It’s a very amazing program and it’s very helpful but I would think it’s often the family member or caregiver that is doing this. All along, I thought this was my application that I’m filling out, not the veterans. Getting to the end and asking for the veterans statement of truth might be a bit of a hang up. I mean you can just type it and say yeah, but maybe this should be the caregivers statement of truth. I might actually want to see the privacy policy, I don’t know if it’s setup. So this would have some information about why you are collecting a social security number and email multiple times. 

**Moderator:** Go ahead and complete the form. 

**Participant:** Ok, what if I did something like “Becky jones for bob jones” in the signature line. I’m not trying to take anything away from him by just signing the veteran’s name. I might just type his name. Ok here there’s a much longer statement of truth. Ok so here it says that you have to be a family member but before in the dropdown could be a friend or a neighbor. Again, you have to live with the veteran but that wasn’t said before. If you have to live with the veteran and that wasn’t said before. If that is a requirement that should be in the eligibility. They come to their house everyday but here it says if you don’t live with them you could move in with them. 

**Participant:** Ok I agree to perform these duties. Ok, maybe this would be underlined with what those personal care services are that were on the first page in case there is something that they aren’t comfortable with doing. I understand that the veteran can request my discharge anytime. So this is the new federal regulation that came out. It would be great if this was linked and it would take you to it. This is weird that it says the Secretary of Veteran’s Affairs or the designee. Are all caregivers given the designation. It would be helpful if this linked to the federal regulations. The veteran or the VA can revoke you or discharge you. Ok. No employment. Privacy policy here, is this a different privacy policy as the one before? I would enter in my name. I would enter in my name. I certify this information is true. OK. 

**Participant:** For testing purposes I entered in fake information. (looking at the text above the submit application button). When you are dealing with very serious applications, they are linked to benefits people want to make sure they have read and know it all. Saving the steps of people copying and googling this. Then I would hit go “Submit application.” 

**Moderator:** I want you to scroll up to the veterans statement of truth. When you were talking about signing documents for my healthy vet. Are you a representative of the veteran? Do you have legal representation? 

**Participant:** Like power of attorney? Yes. I just like to be transparent about who is communicating. And I want to leave the door open if that can ever be achieved. I don’t want it to be that oh, she does everything for him. I’m always documenting when it is me doing something on his behalf. Can I put in here “POA”? This isn’t always recognized by the VA especially if it’s medical versus financial. It would literally be me typing for him. If it wouldn’t let me have this sort of disclaimer here. 

## Post-Task Interview - 5 minutes

**Moderator:** We are running over time and we’ve talked through alot today. Say you’ve submitted this application. Do you think you were you able to accomplish what you set out to do today?

**Participant:** Will it go through? Having issues with the signature line. This is important for me as well, will it email me a receipt or show a success confirmation?

**Moderator** Say you did receive this error message. 

**Participant:** Wait. You won’t be able to resubmit the form online. So only option is to mail this in? Download and print a hard copy. I will say I don’t ever mail stuff to the VA. I have never had a very good experience mailing stuff to the VA. It always gets lost and doesn’t get to the right person. Maybe I can download it and redo it again and give it to my caregiver coordinator? I would download the completed application. I would call the local VA and ask them where I can physically drop it off and give it to someone and get stamp that it was received. 

**Moderator** Minus this error message that this didn’t go through. Let’s say it did successfully go through. 

**Participant:** This form is very concise. I don’t remember if there was a specific section that you would tell the user why social security number was being collected and why. Manage expectations and why are collecting that. There is a little bit a of an issue with the veterans statement of truth and the caregivers. I hope people are having those conversations. Often people are just going to be typing that. Obviously the veteran is going to know about that since this triggers other things that the veteran is going to know about. I don’t know how important that is. This is the Veterans Administration, not the caregivers administration so you want to make sure they are included. What if this is the veteran filling this out? Maybe they are filling it out together. 

## Thank-You and Closing 

**Moderator** This was super helpful. Do you have any last questions for me?

**Participant:** Thank you so much, and letting me see how this works. There was no ability to apply online years ago and that’s very important in this day and age. 

**Moderator** I really appreciate your feedback to improve products and services for veterans and service members.

