**Caregiver Usability Study Notes**

P2, Dec. 16, 2020, 12:30 PM EST

**Intro - 5 minutes**

**Moderator:** Thanks for joining us today! My name is Jonathan and I also have some colleagues on the line observing and taking notes. Today we're going to talk about federal benefits that are provided to family members or caregivers of Veterans.

V: ok

Before we start, a few things I want to mention::

-   This entire session should take about 30 minutes. I want to be sure not to keep you much longer, so I may occasionally prompt you with the next question or topic.
-   In this session, we want to hear your honest opinions. We are not testing your ability. We just want to improve these tools to better meet Veteran's needs. I will not be offended by any opinions you express, and I welcome your feedback.
-   We will not be applying for any VA benefits today. Again, this is to get feedback and improve the tools.
-   Please talk aloud as you're looking through things. For example say "now I'd click on this.. what's this?" this helps me understand what's going through your head while using the tool.
-   To protect your privacy, we are not going to use your real name or Social Security Number today. Feel free to make-up a name, birthday, SSN...I can aways provide that information if you want
-   OK
-   If for any reason and at any time you want to stop the session, please let me know.
-   ok
-   Are you comfortable if I record my screen and audio as we talk today? 
-   yes
-   We use the recordings to confirm that we have captured your opinions accurately. The recordings are destroyed after we complete analysis, and none of your comments will be attributed to you directly.
-   ok
-   If yes:
-   Once I start recording, I am going to confirm that you are ok with me recording this session once more.

**Start recording to the Cloud**

-   I have started recording. I'd like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record my screen and the audio as we talk today?"

**Caregiver**: Yes.

**Warm-up Questions - 5 minutes**

**Moderator:** Can you tell me a little about yourself? (Are you a Veteran with a caregiver? Caregiver with a Veteran?)

**Caregiver:** Yes, I'm 42, I have 2 children by birth, I have 5 total living with us. So we have 5 children here, my husband and I, so we have a full house. He did 21 years in the Army, he just retired a year ago. And we are just settled down into a house in [redacted]. 

**Moderator:** Ok, great. So I know you said your husband is a new veteran and you also told me that you currently live with your husband. Are you receiving any benefits from the VA?

**Caregiver:** I am. This is my second month of being a paid caregiver for him but I've been his caregiver for the past 5 years.

**Moderator:** Got it, and does your husband, I know you're a caregiver, does he have anymore caregivers, people that act as his caregiver? 

**Caregiver:** No, he does not. I'm his full-time caregiver here at home. He's PTSD, TBI, combat, in combat related. 

**Moderator:** Thank you so much for sharing that information. So what I'm going to do it chat you a link and ask you to share your screen with us. Let go ahead and put this in the chat. Do you see the chat with the VA.gov link? 

**Caregiver:** Yes

**Moderator:** Ok, great. I'm also going to make you the presenter. 

**Caregiver:** K, did I do everything ok?

**Moderator:** Like I said, this is not about your ability. So I'm not seeing your screen. 

**Caregiver:** Let's see, I just click on that link?

**Moderator:** Go ahead and click on that link and it might open up in another tab. 

**Caregiver:** Let me see. Jeez, I've got windows opened here, I'm sorry.

**Moderator:** No worries at all, we'll get this sorted out. 

**Caregiver:** I feel like I can't find you now

**Moderator:** It probably opened up a new window or something like that.

**Caregiver:** I've to go to live but it's like it's asking me if I want to start a free trial. I don't see your face anymore. 

**Moderator:** Is there another tab that's opened next to that one, by any chance? Another Gotomeeting? 

**Caregiver:** Yeah, I've got Gotomeeting, Gotomeeting, and then join the meeting. 

**Moderator:** So if you click on the Gotomeeting, the other tab, what are you looking at there? 

**Caregiver:** It's a blue screen that says, "have a great meeting, try again or reinstall app." I'm so sorry.

**Moderator:** No, no, not at all, let me go ahead and share my screen with you and see if you can see what I'm seeing. So just give me one second here. Do you see a screen with your face and my face.

**Caregiver:** I do not. Trying to see where I have everything opened. 

**Moderator:** Do you see the VA.gov website?

**Caregiver:** I see you now. 

**Moderator:** Great, in the upper right corner, do you see where I'm hovering over chat?

**Caregiver:** Yes.

**Moderator:** Are you able to click on this? 

**Caregiver:** Yes.

**Moderator:** When you click on that, what happens?

**Caregiver:** It just kinda put a bigger screen and me in a smaller screen with you. 

**Moderator:** This website here, staging.va.gov, does that open up anywhere?

**Caregiver:** Let me try to click it and see. Clicking it but it's not... 

**Moderator:** Can you copy, highlight that, just copy and paste that and put it in another tab?

**Caregiver:** Sure.

**Moderator:** Let me know if that opens up for you. I'm going to go ahead and make you a presenter again. And we're going to see if we can.. So you should be the presenter again, so see if you can share your screen. 

**Caregiver:** It's asking me to do something in security to go forward so I'm trying to do that. Ok. Alright so now staging.va.gov, I can see that but not you if that's ok. 

**Moderator:** Let me see here, so you can see va.gov...

**Caregiver:** Yes, the blue header and the Covid...

**Moderator:** That's great, I cannot see it still, let me try just one more time here. And is there something you see about presenter. 

**Caregiver:** Yes, it says Gotomeeting needs to use accessibility features. It says, "not now", or "open system preference", when I click "open system preference"...

**Moderator:** If you just click "not now", what happens?

**Caregiver:** When I did it earlier, that's when it went away and I couldn't find the login for you. 

**Moderator:** Got it, and when you click system preference?

**Caregiver:** It pulled up a box but nothing was highlight-able so it was like I couldn't do anything to give you access. I'm on a Mac Pro. 

**Moderator:** Ok, let me just try one more time here. Are you seeing my screen? 

**Caregiver:** Yes

**Moderator:** Did you see a box that looked like this, by any chance? 

**Caregiver:** No, it didn't pull up, it didn't have any of that stuff in it. 

**Moderator:** Was it something like this, by any chance? Or was it just the security warning? 

**Caregiver:** It was just a security box and it had accessibility written on the side with other sub items related to the computer.

**Moderator:** Got it, yeah, I'm not sure exactly, it sounds like it is a security setting. I'm going to stop sharing here for a second. Try one more time, otherwise I'll just bring up the form and we'll just kinda walk through it. 

**Caregiver:** It says general FileVault firewall and privacy and it's got location settings, contacts, calendar, camera, microphone, speech recognition.

**Moderator:** Right, so it sounds like your security, and are those selected?

**Caregiver:** They're not. Only thing highlighted is privacy, so trying to think if I allow camera, maybe? So I clicked camera and Zoom and Gotomeeting came up so clicked that and if I try to select something else it takes off the camera setting, so should I try it?

**Moderator:** Sure, sure. 

**Caregiver:** And I click Gotomeeting so it has access but it doesn't look like there is anything that allows me to confirm that change, if that makes sense. So I highlight the camera and it pulls up Gotomeeting and Zoom and those are both selected.

**Moderator:** I'm not 100% sure what's going on, but for times sake, I can go ahead and share my screen and you can kind of direct me and we can go through the form together. If that works for you?

**Caregiver:** That's fine.

**Moderator:** Ok, great. Give me one second while I set this up. Can you see the VA website? 

**Caregiver:**  Yes.

**Moderator:** Ok, sorry about all that.

**Caregiver:**  I'm sorry.

**Moderator:** No, it's not your fault at all.

**First Task: [Applying for benefits] - 15 minutes**

**Moderator:** Does this screen look familiar to you at all?

**Caregiver:** Yes.

**Moderator:** So I'm just going to scroll around on it and you can tell me which way to go. So which way is it familiar, if you don't mind me asking? 

**Caregiver:** I had just recently applied to the caregiver program, so for the past year I had been looking into doing it. Heard there was a lot of changes coming up so I kinda waited and then I applied and got approved in the past 2 month. So I've been going back and forth to this site for training and for just overall, the application and so forth. Gathering information, so that's all. 

**Moderator:** Got it. And when you submitted your application, did you submit it through the online form or through the paper form?

**Caregiver:** I did. I filled it out, I printed it off from online, I filled it out and called the local VA, she gave me an address to mail it to in another state. I did that and then she called me back.

**Moderator:** Got it, so let's say that you were coming to this page again and you wanted to apply for benefits or submit this again? Can you go ahead and walk me through how would you do that?

**Caregiver:** Yeah, I would just read where it says, "Are you eligible for caregiver" and I would make sure I qualified under those first little headers. And then I would look for a link to click on to move forward. 

**Moderator:** Ok

**Caregiver:** So I would go to "Apply for caregiver assistance", the green bar, and click and apply. 

[next page]

And I remember specifically when I got to this part, I stopped, I went to some of my Facebook groups. They're caregivers. And asked them how long the application process takes. Then after I got the answer, I started the application and realized it kinda tells you that as you go. That it's a very short, little process as far as applying 

**Moderator:** That totally makes sense. I heard you say, when you started the application, it told you how long it was gonna take. Can you tell me more about that? Where you found that information?

**Caregiver:** Yeah, right when I got to "start your application", it made me second guess, ok do I have time right now to do this? Am I in the right frame of mind? So I start scrolling down, trying to see about how long it would take. And I'm not seeing it just yet, but did see it takes like 15 minutes. I'm looking now. Yeah, right there, "15 minute for the application." So when I noticed that, I was like, "ok, great", and I went back up and applied. 

**Moderator:** Ok, so you can just walk me through what you would do next. 

**Caregiver:** I would click the "Start your application"... Then I went over and just started putting information in. 

**Moderator:** Ok, and I'll just use, um, information here. Do you remember any of this information? You having...? What you were thinking about when filling this out?

**Caregiver:** I cannot believe this is this easy, it just seems like I'm missing something. This was so easy to do. Why did I wait a year to do this? I could've done this a year ago and been a, you know, potential paid caregiver a year ago. And that was my thought. It was the most streamlined, easiest process that I've been through with him. So I was really impressed. 

**Moderator:** And when you filled this out were you... did you fill it out on your own?

**Caregiver:** I did, I filled it out on my own.

**Moderator:** Got it. Well I'll just fill out this information here. 

[page 'step 1 of 4']

If you could just walk me through this page, that would be great. 

**Caregiver:** So recent medical care, he goes to the VA for all his appointments. So I was just able to list the VA. And put all their information in, it was very easy, this is stuff I have on hand. Him and I had already talked about me applying, I just went through and listed all the information. I had already researched the support coordinator from previously going with him to the VA. They told me the name of her, and she called and introduced herself. So I already had her information, but it made it easier for me. 

**Moderator:** What would you put in for these field? 

**Caregiver:** The [redacted] VA. 

**Moderator:** What about..?

**Caregiver:** It's a hospital, yes.

**Moderator:** If you could just help direct me through the rest of the the page, that'd be great. 

**Caregiver:** Then I would scroll down and put the on there, the state and medical center that he goes to. I would put the information for our state. 

**Moderator:** So that's just [redacted]? 

And what about for the medical center?

**Caregiver:** I would just put [redacted] VA and hit continue. 

[page 2 of 4]

And then I am the only caregiver so I'm the primary caregiver, there would be no others so. So I would just put, "would you like to add a primary caregiver?," that would just be myself. So I would put "yes", and then continue. 

[next page]

Then I would put my information.

[redacted]

**Moderator:** And for the rest if you could just walk me through this.

**Caregiver:** I would put my social security number in and then my birthday, [redacted], and put that I'm female, and then continue after female.

[next page]

Here I would put our address in [redacted]. Fill all of that out. Then put my phone number and then list his phone number as the alternative because we're always together. 

**Moderator:** Can you tell me a little about that? Listing the veteran's number as your alternative? 

**Caregiver:** So I would list his number as the alternative because I manage his phone. And manage his calls, because his doctors and stuff will call that line. And so it's just something, it's like having two phones, with him having some independence on his own, of having his own phone. I always use his phone number as an alternative in case something happened to mine or I'm on the other line. Then we would still get the message or the call. It would come through. 

**Moderator:** Got it. 

**Caregiver:** And then I put my email address in there. And then I would select I'm his spouse and continue.

[next page]

And on healthcare coverage, I do have healthcare coverage, I would select "yes" and continue.  

[next page, 'step 3 of 4']

No secondary caregiver, I did research that, so before I started the application. My mom did live with us and she was a big help to him but she's no longer with us but I did understand fully what that means based upon the information I got off the VA site. Hit continue.

**Moderator:** And when you research this secondary caregiver, you mentioned the VA site, do you remember specifically where you were getting information?

**Caregiver:** Yeah, I just started typing in "caregiver" on the search bar on the website and it would pull up different things. And after reading about primary caregiver, it started bringing up information on secondary. So I went in and just read all of the notes that popped up on the search bar until I was comfortable with understanding what qualifies as secondary caregiver. So that's what helped me make that decision. 

[page 4 of 4]

**Moderator:** Got it, so if you could just walk me through what you would do on this page. 

**Caregiver:** Yeah so for this, I just went to my husband, showed him this, told him I was going to print it and explained it to him. And, of course, he asked me what all questions they asked me and what I answered. I was able to show him the application, all the questions. I printed it and he signed it and we sent it off.

**Moderator:** Got it, so when you said, so you called your husband over, he was asking some information. What did you print off exactly?

**Caregiver:** After I did the application, I printed off the paperwork, like, at the end, I forget what it was, it wasn't a lot of pages, just a few. I held onto that until I got a phone call just so I could remind him that we had done this and what stage we were at. 

**Post-Task Interview - 5 minutes**

**Moderator:** Makes sense. So I know it was a little tricky because I was in control of the form. But were you able to accomplish what you set out to do today?

**Caregiver:** Yes, absolutely.

**Moderator:** Can you just tell me, I know you mentioned it while we were going through it, just about your overall experience completing this form?

**Caregiver:** This form was by far one of the simplest, it was just simplistic, and I wasn't expecting that. In fact, it took me a year to apply because I had heard nightmare stories about caregivers and the VA and the system and it was changing and don't. Just wait to apply. And so, after going in the VA and seeing a lot of the chaos and things that happen, that I experienced in person. I was extremely impressed with how easy this was and I was disappointed in myself that I didn't do it sooner, because I was accepted. And now I am a paid caregiver. And I just say, wow, I've been doing this for so long. And a year ago I was going to apply I just got spooked, I guess. And so, it was just great, it was a wonderful thing and my experience so far has been very positive with getting information, training, all that.

**Moderator:** Got it, and do you have anymore questions for me on the form?

**Caregiver:** I do not. 

**Thank-You and Closing**

Well we really appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us today. Your feedback is so helpful to us as we continue to improve our products and services for Veterans and service members.

Great, well thank you so much again, and enjoy the rest of your day!
