Caregiver Usability Study Notes
=============================================

Participant #3, Date: 12/16/20, Time: 2pm EST

## Intro - 5 minutes

**Moderator:** Thanks for joining us today! My name is Jonathan and I also have some colleagues on the line observing and taking notes. Today we're going to talk about federal benefits that are provided to family members or caregivers of Veterans.

**Participant:**  Ok. 

Before we start, a few things I want to mention::

- This entire session should take about 30 minutes. I want to be sure not to keep you much longer, so I may occasionally prompt you with the next question or topic.
- In this session, we want to hear your honest opinions. We are not testing your ability. We just want to improve these tools to better meet Veteran's needs. I will not be offended by any opinions you express, and I welcome your feedback.
- We will not be applying for any VA benefits today. Again, this is to get feedback and improve the tools.
- Please talk aloud as you're looking through things. For example, say "now I'd click on this.. what's this?" this helps me understand what's going through your head while using the tool.
- To protect your privacy, we are not going to use your real name or Social Security Number today. Feel free to make-up a name, birthday, SSN...I can always provide that information if you want
- If for any reason and at any time you want to stop the session, please let me know.
- Are you comfortable if I record my screen and audio as we talk today? We use the recordings to confirm that we have captured your opinions accurately. The recordings are destroyed after we complete analysis, and none of your comments will be attributed to you directly.
- If yes: 
- Once I start recording, I am going to confirm that you are ok with me recording this session once more.

**Participant:** Yeah, that’s fine

**Start recording to the Cloud**

- I have started recording. I'd like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record my screen and the audio as we talk today?"

**Participant:** Yes

## Warm-up Questions - 5 minutes

**Moderator:** Can you tell me a little about yourself? (Are you a Veteran with a caregiver? Caregiver with a Veteran?) 

**Participant:** I’ve been a caregiver for my husband, compensated by the VA since 2015. I’m a full time college student right now. I’m trying to find a job that I can work remotely so I can work from home because he does better when I’m at home. We have 2 kids, our son is 22 and our daughter is a senior in high school, she is 18. He (husband) was retired medically in 2013 after 17 years of active duty. I’m a book worm and I love chickens. I live on a farm. 


**Moderator:** Great, thank you for sharing all of that. Are you currently living with your husband right now?

**Participant:** Yes

**Moderator:** Great. I know you receive benefits through the VA for caretaking. Do you receive any other benefits?

**Participant:** He was just made 100% in the summertime. So I do receive chapter 37 benefits as well now.

**Moderator:** Got it. Does he have any other caregivers?

**Participant:** No.

**Moderator:** Great, thank you for sharing that information, that’s very helpful. What I’m going to do is send you a link to the VA.gov website and I’m going to ask you to share your screen. 

## First Task: [Applying for benefits] - 15 minutes

**Moderator:** You said you’ve been a paid caretaker for your husband since 2015. When you applied, do you remember how you submitted your application?

**Participant:** Mine was on paper

**Moderator:** Got it

**Moderator:** Given all the information that you gave me, just imagine that your coming to this screen and you decide that you want to apply for caregiver benefits or go through this form one more time. Can you walk me through how you would do this?

**Participant:** Ok. I’m just kinda scrolling down and looking at the different things I can read about. If I don’t know anything about it I’m going to go down here where it says “apply for caregiver assistance.” So I should go ahead and click on that? 

**Moderator:** Yeah, so you mentioned that if you don’t know anything about the program you would go down and click on that “apply for caregiver assistance?” Did I hear that correct?

**Participant:** I mean, I would say that I would have some knowledge of it if I’m on here, that there is a program out there. Me personally, I would get as much research done as I could before I actually applied. I would probably start at the top and work my way down to see if I’m even eligible before I click on the next thing just to make sure. 

**Moderator:** Got it. Can you show me how you would go through and apply for the program? That would be great. 

**Participant:** Ok. (Clicks on green “apply for caregiver assistance” button) So I would have to start my application. I’m just kinda reading through here what it says, the different steps here for it. 

**Moderator:** What are you thinking when you’re reading those bullet points there?

**Participant:** I think they are very informative. I don’t think I had this in 2015. This is very good. If I don’t know much about the program I could look at this right here and see ok, this is everything I need to do. Make sure I know his social. If I had any questions there is a number here, there’s a link here. That’s a good thing there. Very informative. Yeah, this is really good. Oh… it even tells me that this is supposed to take 15 minutes! Good. 

**Moderator:** Can you walk me through the process?

**Participant:** Ok. (Clicks on blue start my application button, filling out form). I’m going to fill in my husbands name. His social security. (Types in random social security number and date of birth) This is pretty simple so far. (Types in address fields and phone number) 

**Moderator:** And again, if you could just think out loud that would be really helpful.

**Participant:** Oh, ok. (Types in name of medical facility) For the medical facility, we drive over 2 hours to indianapolis. (Selects hospital from hospital or clinic dropdown, selects state) Indiana is where he receives his care from. (Selects Richard Roudebush Administration Medical Center from VA medical center from dropdown, clicks on blue continue button) 

Participant is on the Step 2 of 4: Primary Family Caregiver applicant information page. 

**Participant:** I’ll just say no to the “What is a Primary Family Caregiver?” question to save time. (Clicks blue continue button)

**Moderator:** Can you tell me more about why you selected no? I’m sorry to interrupt. 

**Participant:** It’s just a time thing, since we only have 30 minutes or whatever. Do you want me to go back and do that?

**Moderator:** So you wanted to save time. Can you tell me a little bit more about what you were thinking when it asked “would you like to add a primary caregiver?”

**Participant:** I would have done it but because I’m on a time limit with you guys I don’t want to waste time typing it in. I can put it in if you want me to. 

**Moderator:** What would you expect to happen if you selected yes to the “would you like to add a primary caregiver?”

**Participant:** Here, I can do it. (selects yes radio button)

**Moderator:** Just out of curiosity

**Participant:** I would put in the doctor’s information it asks for. Wait a minute here. Oh I thought it asked for a doctor! 

**Moderator:** Can you tell me a bit more about that?

**Participant:** I misread it. I thought it said primary care doctor or physician. But I just blew through it. So it’s asking for me then. Alright, so I’m just putting in my information. My birthday. I’m a female (clicks blue continue button) (types in address) The form is really easy to use. My relationship I’m going to select spouse. Does the primary family caregiver applicant have health care coverage such as medical, medicare… Yes I do I have TrackCare. (clicks blue continue button) 

**Participant:** Would you like to add second caregiver? No, I honestly wish I had someone else’s name to put in there.

**Moderator:** Just a quick question about the second family caregiver. Can you tell me what you were thinking when you came to that page?

**Participant:** I was thinking that I wish I had someone else’s name to put in there. To have a second caregiver, it’s a really good thing to have because it is a hard thing to take on yourself. Dealing with family and everything is really hard on one person. I hope that the people that apply do have someone who can help them out. 

**Moderator:** Ok great. If you could tell me about what you would do on this page, then?

**Participant:** Ok. Veterans statement of truth. I’m a family member of the veteran. I read it and accept it. I have to put my veteran’s name in here and certify that everything is correct. I’m just reading all these things here to certify that I’m being truthful about everything. I like that there is not too much information here to read. That’s a good thing. I will certify it again and submit. 

## Post-Task Interview - 5 minutes

**Moderator:** Ok. I’m going to stop here for a minute. I know we triggered this error and I want to talk about this in a minute. Lets just say that we had a successful submission. Can you tell me about your overall experience in completing the form.

**Participant:**  It was very easy to do and it was an easy system to walkthrough. Things were simple and it clearly stated what you have to do. This isn’t information overload, there’s just the right amount of information. If I wanted to find out more about stuff I could be clicking on the different links and tabs and stuff that would take me more in depth. I like that it’s just the basics.

**Moderator:** Were you able to accomplish goals that you set out to do today?

**Participant:** Yes.

**Moderator:** And that was to apply with just a primary family caregiver?

**Participant:** Yes.

**Moderator:** Would you just fill out this form by yourself?

**Participant:** Yes. If I didn’t have some of the information I would ask my husband being the vet. I’m a pretty seasoned vet’s wife so I probably know more stuff than he knows about himself.

**Moderator:** Got it. Is there anything else that you found confusing within the form? 

**Participant:** No. I think it was very self explanatory. Very basic and low key. Which is a good thing, because if you are trying to be a caregiver, you don’t have alot of extra time to spend going through pages of stuff trying to figure it out. This was basic and to the point. This was a really good form.

**Moderator:** This was a couple minutes ago now, but if you could think back to the primary caregiver page, you originally skipped this thinking that it was your doctor’s information.

**Participant:** I thought this said primary care physician. 

**Moderator:** Got it. So you skipped that part to save time. What did you expect to see on that screen? I know that’s kinda a tough question. Once you hit continue, do you know what you would have expected next?

**Participant:** No. I didn’t know.
**Moderator:** Say you filled out the form and you entered the information and you clicked submit and you came to an error screen like what we are looking at now. Can you tell me what you are seeing here?

**Participant:** Well, it says I can’t submit the form online then I have to download, print and mail the form in. 

**Moderator:** Can you tell me more about that, and actually show me what you would do?

**Participant:** I would download my form here, then upload it. Then I would probably have to save it and print it just in case I needed. Sometimes things get lost in the mail. I would print it and send it to this address here. I, personally, would do certified mail to make sure they received it. So they would have to sign for it. That’s what I actually did when I did my hardcopy of my application. I used certified mail just for the papertrail. 

**Moderator:** Absolutely, that makes sense. Let’s jump back to the primary caregiver page. The question on that page was would you like to add a primary caregiver and you thought it was primary physician. When reading that question, is there something that can be done to this that would make it easier for you?

**Participant:** No, I honestly think I was just rushing through it. I assumed primary care was physician. I don’t think of myself as a primary caregiver, I’m just the caregiver. We don’t have a secondary so I don’t think of being the primary. I think it’s probably good, I just rushed through it. 

**Moderator:** Great, thank you for sharing. Do you have any questions for me today?

**Participant:** I think the error page, there should be an option to re-submit it online. You should be able to review your errors without having to worry about downloading something. If you are the caregiver, you really don’t have any extra time to worry about downloading something and trying to print it. Sometimes you don’t have a printer at home or you’re out of ink. Those are some of the things I would think about. This would annoy the crap out of me if this happened to me. It honestly would. 

**Moderator:** Yeah. Totally makes sense. You walked me through how you would print it if you were able to. But, I hear you say that the preferred action would be to go back and refill the form out to see if you missed something?

**Participant:** Right, and I didn’t see anything on that paper form that I missed anything? Does it highlight in red or tell me something is wrong? I don’t see anything on here that says I forgot to fill something out or that I forgot a phone number. Ok, I just finished filling everything out online, where did I miss up at? If I can’t tell where I messed up at that would drive me crazy. Everything with the VA takes forever. I don’t want to submit this form and it be lacking something when I didn’t even realize it was lacking something. 

**Moderator:** So if there were any errors you would look at that paper form. Is there anywhere else you might go to correct that information you just filled out?

**Participant:** The only thing I’m seeing here on this error page is a link for “Download your completed application/PDF” so I don’t know if there is somewhere else I can go back and review it? 

**Moderator:** No, that’s great. Awesome. I know that this was an annoying error message that was triggered. Can you tell me any other opinions you have about what went well and what didn’t before I let you go today?

**Participant:** Really good form like I said, very easy. My only concern is this error page right here for “We didn’t receive your application.” Something went wrong when I tried to submit the application and you won’t be able to submit it online. I don’t know if that was something on the system or if it was my internet, do you know what I mean? This just bothers me though. The form needs to point out if you’re missing something specific on it. Overall I think this form is really easy to fill out, very self explanatory and very easy which is what I think it needs to be.

## Thank-You and Closing 

**Moderator:** Great, we really appreciate the time talking with us today. Your feedback is super helpful to improve our products and services for veterans. Thank and have a good rest of your day.

**Participant:** Thank you. 
