Caregiver Usability Study Notes
=============================================

P4#, December 17, 2020, 10:00 AM ET 

## Intro - 5 minutes

**Moderator:** Thanks for joining us today! My name is Jonathan and I also have some colleagues on the line observing and taking notes. Today we're going to talk about federal benefits that are provided to family members or caregivers of Veterans.


Before we start, a few things I want to mention::

- This entire session should take about 30 minutes. I want to be sure not to keep you much longer, so I may occasionally prompt you with the next question or topic.
- In this session, we want to hear your honest opinions. We are not testing your ability. We just want to improve these tools to better meet Veteran's needs. I will not be offended by any opinions you express, and I welcome your feedback.
- We will not be applying for any VA benefits today. Again, this is to get feedback and improve the tools.
- Please talk aloud as you're looking through things. For example say "now I'd click on this.. what's this?" this helps me understand what's going through your head while using the tool.
- To protect your privacy, we are not going to use your real name or Social Security Number today. Feel free to make-up a name, birthday, SSN...I can aways provide that information if you want
- If for any reason and at any time you want to stop the session, please let me know.
- Are you comfortable if I record my screen and audio as we talk today? We use the recordings to confirm that we have captured your opinions accurately. The recordings are destroyed after we complete analysis, and none of your comments will be attributed to you directly.

**Particpant:** Yeah

- If yes: 
- Once I start recording, I am going to confirm that you are ok with me recording this session once more.

**Start recording to the Cloud**

- I have started recording. I'd like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record my screen and the audio as we talk today?"

**Particpant:** Okay, yeah

## Warm-up Questions - 5 minutes

**Moderator:** Can you tell me a little about yourself? (Are you a Veteran with a caregiver? Caregiver with a Veteran?) 

**Participant** What about myself?

**Moderator** Are you a veteran or caregiver?
     
**Particpant:** I'm a veteran, caregiver, and a student. He's my husband He has TBI and PTSD. He's actually home today with very bad migraines.

**Moderator** Do you live full time with veteran?
yeah

**Particpant:**  I've been taking the veteran to the hospitals for the last few years

**Moderator**  I know you're the caregiver for the veteran, does the veteran have any other caregivers for him?

**Particpant:** My daughter lives in a house close to us. If i needed help I could call her and she'd be right here 

DO

## First Task: [Applying for benefits] - 15 minutes

**Moderator:** Ok, given the information above, imagine that you’re applying for benefits for you (or your caregivers) through the Program of Comprehensive Assistance for Family Caregivers. Starting here (start on the content page), walk me through how you would do this.

**Particpant:** I'd figure out what the page was first. I'd read through the page and see what they actually had to offer. See if we're eligible for 

**Moderator:**  Where'd you go get information about that?

**Particpant:**  I'd go to google or the regular va website. I used a lot in my school so I'm pretty familiar with it. I'm also in a caregivers group in las vegas so I can ask questions to them because a lot of them have been certified as caregivers.

**Moderator:**  Let's say they gave you a link to this page and you decided to apply for benefits, can you show me how you'd do that?

**Particpant:** I would actually have to read through all of it to find a link. That would be the link I was looking for, "How do I apply for this program" and it says "Apply for caregiver assistnace" I'd have to read the whole thing just to get down to there to apply for it

**Moderator:** That makes sense...so you could go ahead and show me how you would apply

**Particpant:** Okay...I gotta click on the link and see where it takes me. Sorry my computer is really slow. THat's what happens when you're in the last class of my masters degree. I would make sure to have all the infomration I needed for the program on my computer.

**Moderator** How would you know you have all the information?

**Particpant:** I have a file folder with all the medical stuff that he needs. 

**Moderator** How would you make sure you have all the information you needed to apply for this program?

**Particpant:** I would have to know all I needed...I have no idea what this form is for. I have no idea what 10-10CG is 
If I don't have it, I'd call someone in my support group, what info do I need to apply for this?
I'd probably not contact someone I do not know. Probably as a last resort

**Moderator** What would you expect to click on the link? 

**Particpant:** The VA form? I would expect to know what they need on that form 

**Moderator** Let's just say that you're on this page and you can go ahead and click around and scroll around 

**Particpant:**  I wanna see what this form is *clicks link to paper form* Oh...information for the program it says. Ok I had no idea what this was.

**Moderator**  Now...tell me what's you're thinking when you see this

**Particpant:** Probably be something I want to fill out. I would not apply for assistance right now because he can take care of himself. Except when he gets *PHI* he's in bed all day. Usually I'm not having to do his daily stuff so that's why I think I'm not eligible for this program. I take care of his meds and appts. Something like this happens, he just can't go

**Moderator**  Go ahead and navigate back to the caregiver tab on top of the screen. Do you see any other ways to move forward with the application process?


**Particpant:** I could get ahold of the caregiver support coordinator in *location*. We live in *PII* but everything in *location*


**Moderator** Could you just scroll down to bottom of the page?

**Particpant:** Is that what you were talking about?

**Moderator** You can go ahead and continue app by clicking start application

**Particpant:** Ok

**Moderator** If you can go talk me through 

**Particpant:** I would put his stuff in *fills out veteran info*

**Moderator** Again if you can think out loud that'd be helpful

**Particpant:** Mainly asking info that I use all the time on him. 

**Moderator** Tell me more about that info that you use all the time

**Particpant:** His SSN, our address, anytime I call they want last name, they can't pronounce it so we gotta spell it. The last 4 of his social if not whole social 

*fills out contact info*

**Particpant:** This is just normal info used on a daily basis. I don't know Tennessee zip codes...His phone number is my phone number so...

**Moderator** Can you tell me a little bit more about that

**Particpant:** His phone number is one off of my phone number so it's easy for me to remember. I can put his number down, but I hope there's somewhere where I can put my number. He doesn't know most of his stuff

**Moderator** Can you tell me a little bit more about that

**Particpant:** He gets confused very easily, so he gets his doctos confused and he gets his information confused 
I have a list of medications they have him on right now

*gets to recent medical care*

**Particpant:** He goes to different facilities every week. Do they want the hospital or where he goes and gets his care from?

**Moderator** What would you fill out here?

**Particpant:** I would probably put the hospital that's the last place he talked to and that was right before this. I would say...I'd guess the last place he went. Yesterday he went to 2 different clinics.

**Moderator** You'd just out of 2 different clinics...tell me why you put this VA? because that was last person he talked to?

**Particpant:**  That was the last doctor he talked to before tbis session. He tried to get to neurology. He needs a referral which is very furstrating because it'll take 6 months so I'll prob go outside VA for it

**Moderator** What are you doing for?

**Particpant:**  Trying to figure out what clinics he goes to...oh it says medical center so that would be *location* 
*gets to caregiver* I don't think I qualify as a primary caregiver because he can do most of this stuff on his own. 

**Moderator** If you wanted to know info qualified

**Particpant:**  I'd go to VA hospital and talk to someone there. I don't know who would it be, but I can probably get information from my group to do that 

**Moderator** When you read, would you like to add a primary family caregiver, do you have understanding of what it's tasking there

**Particpant:** I think it's asking do you want to add another person to add information? Like add my daughter. Put my daughter on all this stuff because sometimes she takes him to appointments and therapies.

**Moderator** If you wanted to, with that in mind, hypothetically so me what you'd select. 

**Particpant:** Okay...I'd select click all the little things in my things here

**Moderator** When you were entering the names above, whose name are you entering there

**Particpant:** my daughter's

**Moderator** Can you tell me more about why you think this a section to enter your daughter's info

**Particpant:**  because my daughter actually cares for both of us. When I have med appts, she takes him to it. When he has med appts, she takes him to it. Just cause you know...

*Gets to secondary family caregiver* I might click on these (add info component) to find out if I'm the first or the second
I noticed in the last page, what is a family caregiver. so I might be filling this out completely wrong

**Moderator** What do you think would happen if you did click on those 

**Particpant:**  It would just tell me who is a caregiver

**Moderator** After looking at this info, can you tell me more

**Particpant:**  it just shows both me and her would be ok on it 

**Moderator** After reading that, go ahead and...whose info would you fill out here

**Particpant:**  I'd put Jennifer's info here and mine in the other one. Does that make sense?


  
## Post-Task Interview - 5 minutes

**Moderator:** What did you think of the overall experience in completing this form?

**Particpant:**  I would have to sit and read it as I would read it, otherwise I'd be confused if I just did. The one before this should be primary caregiver instead of this. Something like primary caregiver? Idk what it said. I'd go back and find out 
It does say primary, I should have clicked the link and figure out what it was. 

**Moderator:**  Any questions for me?

**Particpant:** No. I can't think of anything but I might go back and look at this and see what it is.

## Thank-You and Closing 

Well we really appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us today. Your feedback is so helpful to us as we continue to improve our products and services for Veterans and service members.

Great, well thank you so much again, and enjoy the rest of your day!
