Caregiver Usability Study Notes
=============================================

Participant# 5, December 17th, 2020, 10:30 AM EST 

## Intro - 5 minutes

**Moderator:** Thanks for joining us today! My name is Jonathan and I also have some colleagues on the line observing and taking notes. Today we're going to talk about federal benefits that are provided to family members or caregivers of Veterans.


Before we start, a few things I want to mention::

- This entire session should take about 30 minutes. I want to be sure not to keep you much longer, so I may occasionally prompt you with the next question or topic.
- In this session, we want to hear your honest opinions. We are not testing your ability. We just want to improve these tools to better meet Veteran's needs. I will not be offended by any opinions you express, and I welcome your feedback.
- We will not be applying for any VA benefits today. Again, this is to get feedback and improve the tools.
- Please talk aloud as you're looking through things. For example say "now I'd click on this.. what's this?" this helps me understand what's going through your head while using the tool.
- To protect your privacy, we are not going to use your real name or Social Security Number today. Feel free to make-up a name, birthday, SSN...I can aways provide that information if you want
- If for any reason and at any time you want to stop the session, please let me know.
- Are you comfortable if I record my screen and audio as we talk today? We use the recordings to confirm that we have captured your opinions accurately. The recordings are destroyed after we complete analysis, and none of your comments will be attributed to you directly.
- If yes: 
- Once I start recording, I am going to confirm that you are ok with me recording this session once more.

**Start recording to the Cloud**

- I have started recording. I'd like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record my screen and the audio as we talk today?"

**Particpant:**
This isn’t my first rodeo, I’m used to all that! 

## Warm-up Questions - 5 minutes

**Moderator:** Can you tell me a little about yourself? (Are you a Veteran with a caregiver? Caregiver with a Veteran?) 
Uhm, military or? 

M: Sure

I’m a former marine. I was wounded twice in Vietnam. I am 100% disabled. The recent disability increase I got was due to a loss of hearing, damage to my eye, and the last part was PTSD. I’ve recently had an operation on my back about a month ago due to what we believe might have been a result of the blast that I received. I received my college degree after my service in the Marine Corps. I’ve been a service officer when I worked in the state department. I went back to Vietnam during that time. I’m currently retired from the state department 

M: Do you receive benefits from VA?

Yup, I’m 100% disabled. 

M: Do you have someone that acts as a caregiver for you?

My wife acts as my caregiver as I recover from surgery. 

M: Does your wife receive any benefits from VA?

Only with me as a dependent. She doesn’t receive caregiver benefits. 

M: Okay, got it!

**For Veterans:**

- Tell me a bit about the relationship you have with your caregiver? 


- Are they a family member or friend? 

- Do they live with you?

    - If no, how often do they come over to check in on you?

- Does your caregiver receive any benefits from the VA? 

    - If yes, what sort of benefits?     

- Do you have more than one caregivers? 

    - If yes, what tell me a bit about that relationship? 

    -  Are they a family member or friend?

    -  Do they live with you? 


**For Caregivers:**

- Tell me a bit about the relationship you have with the Veteran? 

- Are they a family member or friend? 

- Do you live with the Veteran? 

     - If no, how often do you check in on the Veteran?

- Do you receive any benefits from the VA? 

     - If yes, what sort of benefits? 

- Does the Veteran  have more than one caregiver? 

     - If yes, can you tell me a bit about that relationship? 

     -  Are they a family member or friend? 

     -  Do they live with the Veteran? 

     
**Particpant:**

## First Task: [Applying for benefits] - 15 minutes

**Moderator:** Ok, given the information above, imagine that you’re applying for benefits for you (or your caregivers) through the Program of Comprehensive Assistance for Family Caregivers. Starting here (start on the content page), walk me through how you would do this.

**Particpant:**
Okay well I read the first part of it which is what the program is. Then I’d move down to the next level. 

M: Would you have an idea of what the program is?

Well, yeah I think it’s for seriously injured Veterans or recovering Veterans from some type of operation and there’s no one in their family to help them, the VA would provide a Caregiver. I think you’d have to be eligible for it based on your financial situation as well as your physical vocation and your ability to have a Caregiver in your family. 

M: Go ahead and direct me and I’ll navigate the page. 

I’d like to go to “eligibility requirements for the family caregiver”. You can’t make it any larger can you?

M: *Moderator zooms in*

Thank you so much! I’m old. *Reading the eligibility requirements* You can go ahead and move it up now *continues reading* I am surprised to see that! I didn’t know it was available in that situation. I guess that makes me eligible in some ways I guess - I’m not sure. Health and well-being… every day personal needs… bathing… okay. 

M: Let’s just say you read all this and decided to apply. Can you tell me where to go? 

Well I’m sitting on my computer so I assume the form would be available through the VA website. Which is MyHealtheVet. And then I would search the VA website until I found the address I was looking for to get to this page. After reading that I would go ahead and fill out the information. Probably because I have the disability, I’d have to provide a lot of information. 

M: It’s difficult cuz I’m controlling, but can you tell me where to go to start that application. 

MyHealtheVet 

M: Okay, let’s say it took you to this page. Can you show me how you’d do that from this screen?

It says, “eligibility requirements”, it doesn’t tell you where to go. It says how many caregivers can the Veteran appoint… again I probably would scan that because I wouldn’t expect to ask for more than one. Education and training… that’s interesting. I don’t know if… I suspect this is for caregiving education and training… I suspect that’s either a VA program or an off-site program. It would be good to know what type of training it was. The training would be a questionable issue in my mind as to what type of training, how long, do I have to wait until they finish training. Then it says monthly stipend, doesn’t say how much. Doesn’t make sense why it doesn’t unless it’s based on several different things. I’m assuming CHAMPVA is the website I’d go to in order to answer the questions I just asked.  It says at least 30 days of respite care for the Veteran - that doesn’t really make sense to me. Does that mean the Caregiver could receive a stipend? 

Now we’re on how I apply for this program. You should also add in there somewhere to let people know, because some Veterans will find something all over the internet even if it’s just down there below. You can apply online right now - you might even want to put that up closer to the beginning. The Veteran doesn’t really need to read all that. The application alone is gonna weed out people who don’t qualify when they answer certain questions they can’t answer because they’re not receiving that kind of care. You got the 10-10 and that’s a PDF form. A lot of Veterans don’t have PDF capability cuz it requires having a website to fill in a PDF form. You guys use that docusign that all the banks use. 

M: If you decided you wanted to apply, where would you click?

Where would I what?

M: How would you proceed to the application?

Like it says there,  download it. I can’t do that so I can’t tell you where it’s gonna download to. Again,  I find PDF forms very difficult to complete because you end up trying to write in a much more descriptive concern that you have because you start going into the next line or it shifts the margins. I don’t like PDFS. 

M: I totally here what you’re saying about PDF. If you didn’t want to apply with PDF, is there anywhere else you’d click to apply?

Well it’s a form. I can possibly print it out. I find forms very difficult. The people who create the forms are somewhat handicapped by not knowing how much people are gonna write in the forms. A lot of times when I put my last name in the form it’s too long.

M: Okay! We’re gonna go through the form online. How do you think we would do that?

Okay, it says I can click on “Apply for caregiver assistance” 

M: *clicks on it* 

How to start my application…. prepare.. blah blah blah… so I’m gonna download that form. 

M: So you would download the form here?

Yeah, I’ll probably have to refer back to this website while I complete the form. *Reading the content* So in order to get a confirmation screen you have to submit it online! 

M: Mmmhmm. How do you think you’d do that?

Well, I mean I have a PDF writer. It’ll be in my PDF writer. That PDF writer is very complicated. You can do it, but you have to get used to the nuances in there. I would fill it out on a PDF writer which brings a new problem of submitting it online unless I can pull it into this website. So I have to fill it out with a PDF writer and bring it back into this website. That would be hard to do. That would require you to know everyone’s address in order to do that. 

Okay again you can download… Go up just a bit. Towards the top of the form. Now it says download VA form such-and-such. 

M: Is there anywhere you see where you could not use the pdf to apply to the program?

This doesn’t make sense. It’s telling me… this doesn’t make a whole lot of sense for me. 

M: For time’s sake I’m gonna move us to the next screen. *Clicks ‘start this application’ button* Let’s say you got to this page. What are you seeing and thinking?

I could never get my Social Security number in that little box! Well, it obviously wants to know who you are. It’s asking for the Veteran - not the Caregiver. That’s a good thing because some people would be quizzical about that. It’s a little bit confusing. 

M: Can you tell me why it’s a little bit confusing? 

Somewhere you’re gonna have to put your Caregiver’s name in here. Some people just aren’t capable of separating things as much as other people are. You have to assume that everyone including yourself is stupid. How many people will be able to prepare this thing? I think that redundancy is important. Normally your Social Security number - you’re only required to give the last four. The real question I would add is why it’s required to see why.

M: *Moderator selects ‘Why is this required?’
 So now it’s confusing. You need it, but w e don’t need it. I think that would make me say, “Okay well if you don’t need it then I’m not giving it to you”

M: So if you came to the Social Security number here, what would you do? 

I’d probably not give it to them. Everything I have is encrypted because I’ve been compromised too many time.

M: You wouldn’t provide it. Let’s continue on then! 

Okay my date of birth I’d provide. Doesn’t bother me. My sex is self-explanatory. Idk if VA has a thing where they put all these different genders now. 

M: I apologize for interrupting, but if we’re on this screen and you want to continue - can you tell me where you’d go next?

I’d hit continue. 

M: So can you see that?

*Laughs* Well it tells me I don’t need to provide a Social Security number but now I’m required to. Okay so I’ll enter my Social Security number. 

M: *Proceeds to next screen*

Okay this is all self-explanatory… city… phone number… The Veteran should be able to tell if that’s a cell phone number or landline. Alternate telephone number again if it’s a cell phone number. Again, “Need help” is a good idea. I’m not trying to run down any of my Veteran associates, but I do know a lot of people who apply for benefits immediately start calling and asking questions rather than reading the form. A lot of Veterans can read but they can’t comprehend what they read. I’m a victim of that sometimes too. I think when you’re trying to write a Veterans form it has to be elementary. Some of them, I mean back in my day they didn’t graduate high school and went into the military. I had to write letters in Vietnam and a first sergeant who couldn’t write “the”. He was a great guy, but he did need help with grammar. It’s embarrassing when you have to do that. I don’t mind reading a document that’s more self-explanatory than it needs to be. 

M: How would you proceed?

Continue

M: If you could tell me a little bit about what you’re thinking. 

The name of the medical facility - what is medical treatment? Is that the doctor I went to or is that the VA hospital I went to. Is that a hospital or a clinic? I’m not sure if it’s VA or any place. 

M: What would you enter there?

I’d probably because… I wouldn’t want them to go to my doctor and ask questions - I would enter my VA hospital unless I got my operation at a different hospital. If I got my surgery at a VA hospital then I’d choose that. VA facility. 

M: What about as we proceed down the page?

Plans to receive… I’d enter my state and my medical care. 

M: *Continues* 
Would you like to add a primary caregiver? Okay, so they’re asking if you want to make one of your family a caregiver… or are they? I’d hit ‘yes’

M: I’ll go ahead and select yes. Can you tell me more about what you’re thinking as you read this?

Well, a family caregiver is someone who’s in your family. A caregiver not in your family would be a contractor or something. 

M: If you wanted to get more information, where would you go? 

Well, you’d have to go back to the VA website to see how they define a family caregiver. 

M: What would you expect after i hit the ‘continue button’?

I would expect to add the Caregiver (I think?) 

M: Okay, I’m gonna enter some information here 

It would be helpful to define what a family caregiver to make it easier 

M: Whose information would you put here?

The person who’s gonna give me care. 

M: Tell me what you’re thinking

In this case it would be my wife’s address 

M: Let’s say you entered your wife’s information here

It’s interesting that they don’t make this require information. A lot of people would do it without thinking about it. But what’s the point in adding the caregiver’s address if it’s not required? 

M: I’m gonna go ahead and continue

I guess if they get a disease from you, but I don’t know why you’d need to provide their healthcare insurance 

M: In your situation, would you know if the primary caregiver was covered?

Well, for my immediate family I would know they had health insurance. We share that information anyway. 

M: *Question about secondary Caregiver*

If I can’t walk, my wife can’t help me up. So I’d have to have somebody else with her even if it was a part-time caregiver. Could also be if the primary gets sick. 

M: Where would you go to find more information? 

Well, ‘What’s a secondary family caregiver’ there. 

M: This link here?

Yup! 
M: *Moderator clicks* *Proceeds to next page*

Okay so I assume you type your name out and check to certify. I thought you’d have to sign those things 

M: Can you say that again?

Nowadays you can sign to your name without providing a signature. I guess computers can’t take that information. 

M: Great!  I’m gonna stop us here before we submit the form and stop sharing my screen. 

## Post-Task Interview - 5 minutes

**Moderator:** Great. A few last questions:

- Were you able to accomplish what you set out to do today? 

- What did you think of the overall experience in completing this form?

Uhm, for me it wouldn’t have taken that long if I was doing it on the computer. If I was doing it by hand it would take a little longer because I don’t write well. It wasn’t that difficult. I mean, I could probably consider it to be one of the easier forms I’ve filled out. But I’m just one of many. The other thing is too, if you’re a Veteran and you are in some way debilitated, who fills out the form for you? If you’re unable to get to your computer and your can’t sit up and write. I have a friend who has a brain injury and very sadly he had brain tumors and passed away, but if he had to fill out that form he wouldn’t have been able to. I could fill it out, send it in and not even be that guy and get the money. I think it would be easy to counterfeit. 

M: If you were filling out this form, would you fill it out on your own?

I’d fill out as much as I could by myself. 

M: Let’s say we submitted this form successfully, would you say you accomplished what you set out to do today?

I’m not a big fan of applying for things through the government. The government, I am a retiree from the government so I know it’s impossible to cover everything. 

- Do you remember if you filled out this form? If so, how did you do it? Together with the caregiver/veteran?

- What worked well?

- Any questions for me?


**Particpant:**

## Thank-You and Closing 

Well we really appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us today. Your feedback is so helpful to us as we continue to improve our products and services for Veterans and service members.

Great, well thank you so much again, and enjoy the rest of your day!
