Caregiver Usability Study Notes
=============================================

Participant #6, 12/17/2020, 1200 ET 

## Intro - 5 minutes

**Moderator:** Thanks for joining us today! My name is Jonathan and I also have some colleagues on the line observing and taking notes. Today we're going to talk about federal benefits that are provided to family members or caregivers of Veterans.


Before we start, a few things I want to mention::

- This entire session should take about 30 minutes. I want to be sure not to keep you much longer, so I may occasionally prompt you with the next question or topic.
- In this session, we want to hear your honest opinions. We are not testing your ability. We just want to improve these tools to better meet Veteran's needs. I will not be offended by any opinions you express, and I welcome your feedback.
- We will not be applying for any VA benefits today. Again, this is to get feedback and improve the tools.
- Please talk aloud as you're looking through things. For example say "now I'd click on this.. what's this?" this helps me understand what's going through your head while using the tool.
- To protect your privacy, we are not going to use your real name or Social Security Number today. Feel free to make-up a name, birthday, SSN...I can aways provide that information if you want
- If for any reason and at any time you want to stop the session, please let me know.
- Are you comfortable if I record my screen and audio as we talk today? We use the recordings to confirm that we have captured your opinions accurately. The recordings are destroyed after we complete analysis, and none of your comments will be attributed to you directly.
- If yes: 
- Once I start recording, I am going to confirm that you are ok with me recording this session once more.

**Start recording to the Cloud**

- I have started recording. I'd like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record my screen and the audio as we talk today?"

**Particpant:**

## Warm-up Questions - 5 minutes

**Moderator:** Can you tell me a little about yourself? (Are you a Veteran with a caregiver? Caregiver with a Veteran?) 

Um. Let's see. I'm 58 yrs old, I've been a caregiver for my husband since 2007. And we've been married 42 years, going on 43. I've been a military wife since I was 16 and he was 18, we have 4 children, and grandchildren. Our oldest granddaughter is in ths navy. Even with all the nightmares that papa's gone through, she still wanted to go to the navy. 

- Are you currently living with your usbnand?

Yes


**For Veterans:**

- Tell me a bit about the relationship you have with your caregiver? 
- Are they a family member or friend? 
- Do they live with you?

Yes, 
    - If no, how often do they come over to check in on you?
- Does your caregiver receive any benefits from the VA? 
    - If yes, what sort of benefits?  
    For caregiver, no. Through my Husband yes. 
- Do you have more than one caregivers? 
No, just myself. Our daughters help - but no it's just us. 
    - If yes, what tell me a bit about that relationship? 
    -  Are they a family member or friend?
    -  Do they live with you? 


**For Caregivers:**

- Tell me a bit about the relationship you have with the Veteran? 
- Are they a family member or friend? 
- Do you live with the Veteran? 
     - If no, how often do you check in on the Veteran?
- Do you receive any benefits from the VA? 
     - If yes, what sort of benefits? 
- Does the Veteran  have more than one caregiver? 
     - If yes, can you tell me a bit about that relationship? 
     -  Are they a family member or friend? 
     -  Do they live with the Veteran? 
     
**Particpant:**

## First Task: [Applying for benefits] - 15 minutes

**Moderator:** Ok, given the information above, imagine that you’re applying for benefits for you (or your caregivers) through the Program of Comprehensive Assistance for Family Caregivers. Starting here (start on the content page), walk me through how you would do this.

I would start by reading everything... I'd scroll down and just read everything.

- Is there anything in this that makes it so you know you're eligible?

Yeah, I'm his spouse, my husband is post 9-11. Except the VA doesn't recognize that, so it doesn't really matter that I"m reading. 

What is that?

I know that I qualify for all of that, my huband is 100% disabled, he's permanently ill. He has invisible wounds of war, so I know we're eligible, but the VA doesn't care about that. I would just keep reading to the bottom... I would apply for caregiver assistance. Yes.  And then I would continue reading and then I would start the application, about what I would do now.  I would select start your application. Actually I would download the file.  I wouldn't bother calling anyways, they don't help with any questions anyway. They only asnswer the basic questions, I would figure it out myself. It's self explanatory - I know the person that I'm calling... I konw this sounds negative... I've been through the rollercoaster... and they kick you off thinking your spouse is healed.  They kick you off whenever they want to. They'll send these letters out that say 'Oh the veteran has healed, they don't need a caregiver any more.'

*technical issues*

This is not user friendly, you should bre able to click in a docusign and sign and then it's gone. 

- Do you see anywhere else if you didn't go through docusign?

I'd go down to apply, and if I'd have to take it in person then I would...it says it would take about 15 minutes. Most people don't want to read everything and they'll just hit start your application.  

- But just to be clear, you would click on this download link?

Yeah, I would... I just want to make sure I"m doing it right.

- Okay, for our purposes, we'll go ahead and click on start application.

As crazy as it sounds, I'm a male and I'm a female - we need to start adding *other*... (filling out application with dummy info) It should have auto-fill. Some of the Veterans will be sitting there typing and it's not user friendly. So when they hit autofill it's easier for a lot of people. Autofill can check everything, your email address, everything. Then continue.

- So if I filled in a lot of the information here... Could you speak outloud?

Medical facility... you know of course it's a hospital and clinic. 

- So for this wht would you select?

It's both... it's a hospital and a clinic...

- If you had to select one which one would you select?

Probably hospital... VA medical center AGAIN, we've already answered that. 

- Why do you say that?

Because it's a medical facility... it's the same question just kind of turned around. Those are the little things that frustrate the veteran on using things on the computer. It's redundant. And then... would you like to add a primary family caregiver? What's a primary family caregiver? I don't think you need that question. Everyone knows what that is. It should be 'Would you like to add a primary caregiver'? There's a lot of homeless veterans who don't have anyone, and a lot of people who don't have family.  Especially PTSD veterans... the family doesn't want to deal with them... so friends would have to help them.  I wouldn't even have that question there, I'd have it in parentheses just put it down there. 

- What would you put there?

I would just say yes... So of course the first name/last name/social/birthdate...like I say autofill would be good here to. Then hit continue. 

- What is the family caregivers relationship to the veteran?

I would again take off 'family'... I would remove it all together. Does the primary caregiver applicant have healthcare coverage? To a certain extent, that should be provided. OR this caregiver... it's their job at this point. That's what it's for... it's a job. They depend on the $3500 a month to offset their own costs. And can't afford to get healthcare insurance. So it should absolutely be available for them.


*Wraps up early due to technical issues*


**Particpant:**

  
## Post-Task Interview - 5 minutes

**Moderator:** Great. A few last questions:

- Were you able to accomplish what you set out to do today? 
- What did you think of the overall experience in completing this form?
- Do you remember if you filled out this form? If so, how did you do it? Together with the caregiver/veteran?
- What worked well?
- Any questions for me?

**Particpant:**

## Thank-You and Closing 

Well we really appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us today. Your feedback is so helpful to us as we continue to improve our products and services for Veterans and service members.

Great, well thank you so much again, and enjoy the rest of your day!

