Caregiver Usability Study Notes
=============================================

Participant 7, 12/17/2020, 12:30 ET

## Intro - 5 minutes

**Moderator:** Thanks for joining us today! My name is Jonathan and I also have some colleagues on the line observing and taking notes. Today we're going to talk about federal benefits that are provided to family members or caregivers of Veterans.


Before we start, a few things I want to mention::

- This entire session should take about 30 minutes. I want to be sure not to keep you much longer, so I may occasionally prompt you with the next question or topic.
- In this session, we want to hear your honest opinions. We are not testing your ability. We just want to improve these tools to better meet Veteran's needs. I will not be offended by any opinions you express, and I welcome your feedback.
- We will not be applying for any VA benefits today. Again, this is to get feedback and improve the tools.
- Please talk aloud as you're looking through things. For example say "now I'd click on this.. what's this?" this helps me understand what's going through your head while using the tool.
- To protect your privacy, we are not going to use your real name or Social Security Number today. Feel free to make-up a name, birthday, SSN...I can aways provide that information if you want
- If for any reason and at any time you want to stop the session, please let me know.
- Are you comfortable if I record my screen and audio as we talk today? We use the recordings to confirm that we have captured your opinions accurately. The recordings are destroyed after we complete analysis, and none of your comments will be attributed to you directly.
- If yes: 
- Once I start recording, I am going to confirm that you are ok with me recording this session once more.

**Start recording to the Cloud**

- I have started recording. I'd like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record my screen and the audio as we talk today?"

**Particpant:**

## Warm-up Questions - 5 minutes

**Moderator:** Can you tell me a little about yourself? (Are you a Veteran with a caregiver? Caregiver with a Veteran?) 

I am currently the caregiver to my disabled husband, we have 3 disabled children as well.

**For Veterans:**

- Tell me a bit about the relationship you have with your caregiver? 
- Are they a family member or friend? 
- Do they live with you?
Yes. 
    - If no, how often do they come over to check in on you?
- Does your caregiver receive any benefits from the VA?
For being his caregiver? No. 
    - If yes, what sort of benefits?     
- Do you have more than one caregivers? 
No.
    - If yes, what tell me a bit about that relationship? 
    -  Are they a family member or friend?
    -  Do they live with you? 


**For Caregivers:**

- Tell me a bit about the relationship you have with the Veteran? 
- Are they a family member or friend? 
- Do you live with the Veteran? 
     - If no, how often do you check in on the Veteran?
- Do you receive any benefits from the VA? 
     - If yes, what sort of benefits? 
- Does the Veteran  have more than one caregiver? 
     - If yes, can you tell me a bit about that relationship? 
     -  Are they a family member or friend? 
     -  Do they live with the Veteran? 
     
**Particpant:**

## First Task: [Applying for benefits] - 15 minutes

**Moderator:** Ok, given the information above, imagine that you’re applying for benefits for you (or your caregivers) through the Program of Comprehensive Assistance for Family Caregivers. Starting here (start on the content page), walk me through how you would do this.

**Particpant:**
Sure. Um. Let's see. I think it's uhhhh learn more about this change and how it may effect you. Well, it looks like the only thing that I can click on. Nothing else looks clickable, unless I go up to where i was before where it says family member benefits.

*user was unable tos croll, now she can scroll*

I'd read that first to see if the program is somehting I would be eligible for... and I live with my veteran so i'd be going down there... the requirements for the veteran... my husband has 100% disability. HOnor after september 11 2001, he was in basic training during the time of 9/11. He was discharged with a medical discharge. I guess I'm not sure what the 6 months of continuous caregiver services... it doesn't talk about ADLs... so I don't know if we qualify based on that part. I'd go to the next section, but i'd like some clarification. I'd question if we were eligible based on these things.

- And if you wanted to get more information on if you were eligible, where would you go?

It doesn't have a link that says that per say... and I wouldn't apply if I didn't have enough information, which I don't think I do. 

- Let's say that you had decided to submit an application, what would you do?

It gives you a coupld options, i doubt that in person is really happening right now.  I've talked to the person in the program... but I would probably go ahead and contact that person... I'd try to get more information and apply with her. And if I couldn't do that then I would hit the button and apply online.

- Go ahead and hit the button.

Alright. Okay, we're at the start of the application... What VA center... his phon enumber... SS and that kind of thing. I'd keep my phone handy just in case I need help. A lot of VA forms get confusing about what I'm supposed to write. Then I would go ahead and just start applying. Can I hit that? Yeah. Then... do you want me to just make something up? Okay. I'm entering the veterans information... (entering made up information) It just autofilled in the lines... It does say veterans primary phone number... at this point I would wonder if it would be my phone number since I do everything. I would most likely provide my phone number... it's really silly for them to be calling him because he wouldn't know what to do.  Again, I would use my email instaed of the veteran's email.. he never checks his. And then... I guess Iw oul djust type in Davenport clinic... that's where he gets most of his care right now. This is the one in our city... (filling out information) hit continue. What's a primary family caregiver? Um. This is a little confusing... would you liket to add a primary caregiver? Required?? If it's required then I'd just hit yes.

Can yout ell me a little more?

Well if I'm applying for it, I"m not sure why they would ask... I've already answered and read about that in the beginning. I probably wouldn't know why I'm being asked that. It doesn't seem useful. It seems odd to put there. I would hope I know already if I'm applying to be one.  

- You mentioned that you read this question in the beginning... can you tell me a little more about that?

That's why I'm filling out the application... it seems strange that it's asking. If I'm applying to be a family caregiver and the only answers are yes/no... to me why did they ask that before because they were asking what IS one, to get to the point of applying to be one. It doesn't make sense.  So I'll just keep going. 

- And you're just entereing your information here?

I have them in my head, so I don't want to use the real one. My husband is really paranoid about that. Hit continue. I just hit autofill and then just check it to make sure it hasn't done anything different. I'd list my phone number again. Email address, I'd list mine... I"m his spouse, so I'd hit continue. Health care coverage is the next section.. Yes we have medicare in my state.

I'd like to ask you about the secondary caregiver in a minute.  You'd perhaps add it later? Is that correct?

Yes, I would add it later. I don't know who that person would be because I'm kind of it. He doesn't require that much help, so I wouldn't need a secondary person right now.
  
## Post-Task Interview - 5 minutes

**Moderator:** Great. A few last questions:

- Were you able to accomplish what you set out to do today? 
- What did you think of the overall experience in completing this form?
- Do you remember if you filled out this form? If so, how did you do it? Together with the caregiver/veteran?
- What worked well?
- Any questions for me?

**Particpant:**

## Thank-You and Closing 

Well we really appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us today. Your feedback is so helpful to us as we continue to improve our products and services for Veterans and service members.

Great, well thank you so much again, and enjoy the rest of your day!

