Caregiver Usability Study Notes
=============================================

Participant #8, Date: 12/17/20, Time: 2pm EST

## Intro - 5 minutes

**Moderator:** Thanks for joining us today! My name is Jonathan and I also have some colleagues on the line observing and taking notes. Today we're going to talk about federal benefits that are provided to family members or caregivers of Veterans.

**Participant:**  Ok. 

Before we start, a few things I want to mention::

- This entire session should take about 30 minutes. I want to be sure not to keep you much longer, so I may occasionally prompt you with the next question or topic.
- In this session, we want to hear your honest opinions. We are not testing your ability. We just want to improve these tools to better meet Veteran's needs. I will not be offended by any opinions you express, and I welcome your feedback.
- We will not be applying for any VA benefits today. Again, this is to get feedback and improve the tools.
- Please talk aloud as you're looking through things. For example, say "now I'd click on this.. what's this?" This helps me understand what's going through your head while using the tool.
- To protect your privacy, we are not going to use your real name or Social Security Number today. Feel free to make-up a name, birthday, SSN...I can always provide that information if you want
- If for any reason and at any time you want to stop the session, please let me know.
- Are you comfortable if I record my screen and audio as we talk today? We use the recordings to confirm that we have captured your opinions accurately. The recordings are destroyed after we complete analysis, and none of your comments will be attributed to you directly.
- If yes: 
- Once I start recording, I am going to confirm that you are ok with me recording this session once more.

**Participant:** Ok, that’s fine. I turned my camera off.

**Start recording to the Cloud**

- I have started recording. I'd like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record my screen and the audio as we talk today?"

**Participant:** Yes.

## Warm-up Questions - 5 minutes

**Moderator:** Can you tell me a little bit about yourself?

**Participant:**  Sure, as far as a caregiver pertains you mean?

**Moderator:** Sure, yeah.


**Participant:** I’m currently a caregiver to a post 9/11 veteran. Who is combat veteran and was injured. He came home in 2008 and so I’ve been serving as a full time caregiver for him since then. 

**Moderator:** Do you currently live with the veteran?

**Participant:** I do. It’s my husband so I do live with him. We have children in the home. I do work from home as well.

**Moderator:** Do you receive any benefits from the VA?

**Participant:** Myself personally or my husband?

**Moderator:** Personally

**Participant:** Yes. I do receive a caregiver stipend. It’s been a mess but I do receive that. And I guess they do have supportive services if you can get to them but I haven’t really been able to access that. 

**Moderator:** And your husband is receiving benefits through the VA as well?

**Participant:** Yes, he is 100%. He does get compensated for that. 

**Moderator:** Does your husband have more than one caregiver? Or anyone else providing care to him?

**Participant:** Not a paid caregiver but our children, our older children act as secondary caregivers. So that I can work and they kind of keep an eye on things and help where I need them to. 

**Moderator:** You said they were older children. Do they live in the house with you?

**Participant:** They do, yes.

**Moderator:** Are they officially enrolled in the caregiver program with the VA?

**Participant:** No, not at all.

**Moderator:** Great, thank you for that information. What I’m going to do is ask you to share your screen and I’m going to chat a link for you to go to the VA.gov website. Let me go ahead and make you the presenter. 

## First Task: [Applying for benefits] - 15 minutes

**Moderator:** Ok great. Given the information that you provided to me. Imagine you are coming to this page (the program of comprehensive assistance for family caregivers page) and you are going to fill out the application for benefits. Starting here, can you walk me through how you would do this?

**Participant:**  I would start reading to make sure I’m in the right place. I would probably open this (Learn more about this change and how it would affect you link) to see what is going on. If I was looking at this to see if I’m eligible. Whether it would be under the first or the second date. 
I’m seeing that there are eligibility criteria listed. If you want to learn more information, I guess I would click on the link “caregiver support program website,” to check this out. I would probably ignore this link (MISSION Act Website) because it’s like 400 pages long. I would check my eligibility requirements to make sure. 

**Moderator:** Based off the eligibility requirements, are you able to determine if you are eligible to apply for the program?

**Participant:** Yes, because I’m the spouse, I live full time with the veteran. He’s 70% or higher. Caused or made worse by active duty service on or after this date or before this. I guess this a little bit confusing if I wasn’t a caregiver advocate. If I was just a typical caregiver looking at this, I would be a little bit confused. Must have been caused by I obviously understand that. Made worse by their active duty service wording is a little vague. There’s alot that can be read into that. By whose standard? I guess is what I would be thinking. 

Just as a new advocate I’m still learning the new rules. I know here where it says everyday needs since that’s been the new change, the new part of the language. Making sure it’s everyday needs. However, in this category I don’t know if that’s clear. I’m trying to pretend like I don’t know anything about the program. I can appoint up to 2 caregivers, got that. Ok awesome, sounds good.

**Moderator** If you could let me know what you’re thinking

**Participant:** Sorry, I’m trying not to be snarky. I guess where it says “eligible primary family caregivers may also may also receive a monthly stipend payment.” I’m wondering why it says may versus what if they are qualified or if they are eligible. I guess may for the chance that you have different healthcare. But the stipend and the 30 days of respite care. This technically, is probably is one of the biggest challenges as an advocate. When you asked me about the services I received, I’ve never been able to receive. Just a side note.

**Moderator** If you came to this page and you decided that you were going to fill out the form, can you show me how to do this?

**Participant:**  Sure. I would read all of this and know that I was eligible, I would click “Apply for caregiver assistance” green button.I did like that it was first before the other options and there was a button. 

**Moderator** Before the other options, being the PDF?

**Participant:**  Yes the in person or mail in. I liked the first option was online and that the button was clear and very noticeable. Before I click on the “start your application” button, I would briefly read this. Check, check, check. I would start. This is where I’m using fake information? 

**Moderator** Yeah, sure and also generally tell me what you are entering.

**Participant:**  (On Step 1 of 4: Veteran Information) Ok. First name. I’m not filling out anything that is not required because I’m usually rushed and stressed. 

**Moderator** Whose information are you entering here?

**Participant:** The veteran’s. I would fill in the veterans information, first name, last name, date of birth for the veteran. Social security number, date of birth for the veteran, his sex. (Clicks blue continue button) Current street address for the veteran, city, town. I would skip over all the fields that aren’t required, especially the email and phone number. I would put my phone number, not the veteran’s in the veteran’s primary telephone number field. Because it’s required I would be putting this in here but I would probably be putting in my own information. 

**Moderator** Is that just with the email fields?

**Participant:** With the emails, yes. With the phone number I would put my phone number because it’s a requirement. Just as a caregiver I do. I know that’s kind of cheating and they always ask for the veterans. Sometimes you don’t know, like if you’re very new to caregiving. You put the caregiver’s information in and they are trying to reach the veteran. Anyways, it happens alot when they try to reach out to the veteran and the veteran doesn’t know or remember the call came through to pass the information along and it gets lost. Being a little bit more experienced with my caregiving, I know just to put down my own information. Ok so recent
medical care, filling in the hospital information. Please select the center where he receives care. Shoot, I don’t remember what hospital. (clicks blue continue button)

**Participant:** Would you like to add a primary caregiver? What’s a primary caregiver? (Clicks on link accordion). Ok, it’s explaining what a primary caregiver is and I’m like yep, I’m a spouse so yes I do want to apply.

**Participant:** Ok

**Participant:** Ok so I’m going to go ahead and enter in first name and last name. If social security number isn’t required I’ll probably skip it for now. I generally only enter what is required. My sex is female. (clicks blue continue)

**Participant:**  Enter in current address, I hope it doesn’t bounce it back because I don’t remember what I put in from the other one.

**Moderator** For our purposes, it’s ok.

**Participant:**  Phone number. Ok so, I would be a little confused here because I haven’t entered my veterans email and it’s not requiring one here either. But I guess that makes sense if they don’t have an email that’s a good thing. I will go ahead and put my email.

**Moderator** Can you tell me more about why you would put that email there?

**Participant:** Usually I would skip it if it’s not required. But because I skipped it under veteran and I do utilize email. At this point I would be like ok, they aren’t requiring it but I’ll go ahead and list it at this point. Relationship, select spouse. (Clicks blue continue button)

**Participant:** Healthcare coverage, does the applicant have healthcare? Yes. Would you like to add a secondary family caregiver? Yes, I do want to look into this. (Clicks on “what’s a secondary family caregiver link accordion). Secondary caregiver primarily serves as a backup. I guess I would have more questions here about a secondary caregiver in real life. I guess I don’t understand this designation. I know for a backup but I don’t know if for example if I kick the bucket and my secondary acts as a backup are they already cleared and ready to go and they just fill in immediately? I don’t know much about that. (Clicks blue continue button)

**Moderator** Going back to the secondary caregiver. It provided some information for you. It sounded like you wanted more information and clarity. Where would you go to look for that information? 

**Participant:** I don’t know. I guess here? A secondary caregiver generally servers as a backup to the primary caregiver, maybe the language there. If it is in fact that the secondary caregiver is an automatic thing once you go through this process that there is a safety net and they take over. I would be more clear here. I wouldn’t use the word generally. Maybe if approved would be a backup primary family caregiver. I guess it needs to be more concise. 

**Participant:** Ok, so I see here, I can check to make sure I put it in right. Got that right. Ok. I always have typos so I would double check everything. I think maybe, if there is a requirement to review this or to prompt someone to review it. I know, because I’m used to computers and filling out forms online. But if I just came to the accordions I wouldn’t know that they open.

**Participant:** Now I’ve reviewed everything. (Looking at Veteran’s statement of truth). I usually don’t read this but I see it. I’m looking over everything to make sure I’m telling the truth. Ok. What was my name though, I have to look again. I agree to provide personal care services. Veterans may request my discharge. I know my position as a caregiver may be revoked by the secretary of veterans affairs. Participation does not create an employee relationship. What was my name though, I have to look again. 

## Post-Task Interview - 5 minutes

**Moderator** Before you click submit I’m going to stop you there for a minute and ask you about the overall experience completing this form. 

**Participant:** I thought it was very easy especially for caregivers from earlier eras. It’s a very easy navigaiton to figure things out. It’s very easy to understand I guess. 

**Moderator** If you were applying for this program, were you able to accomplish what you were able to do?

**Participant:** Yes. Just apply for the program. It looks very easy, I didn’t have to upload anything. It’s not too difficult if you aren’t computer savvy. 

**Moderator** Just out of curiosity, when you applied for this program originally you applied with a paper form. Did you fill this out by yourself?

**Participant:** I did. I didn’t have any help

**Moderator** If you were submitting this form online would you fill it out on your own?

**Participant:** Yes, I would fill it out and submit it online.

**Moderator** Was there anything that worked well? You already spoke to it a little bit. 

**Participant:** I don’t think so, I think it’s really well done other than some of the language. For the most part, someone that advocates for caregivers. Trying to be unbiased as possible. Really well done and easy to use and navigate. Especially someone that is brand new to this or a little bit older this is good.

**Moderator**  You mentioned some of the language but were there other pain points?

**Participant:** No, just the vague language under the “could receive” and “generally”, that part of the text. You know, going back. Can I go back? Some web forms it messes it up. Sorry, trying to look at something. Under the personal care I was trying to see if it explained the safety category what that means.

**Moderator** Oh, on the intro page when you were looking at eligibility?

**Participant:** I know what it is, but I didn’t really look at it through a different lense. 


## Thank-You and Closing 

**Moderator** That makes sense. All of this information is super helpful. Thank you so much again.

**Participant:** I have a question. My husband is setup to do a session with you right after this one. Have him join on the same. I did check off that he did have some cognitive issues. Thank you, I will get him setup. 

Thank you so much. 

