Caregiver Usability Study Notes
=============================================

Participant# 9, December 17th, 2020, 2:30 PM EST 

## Intro - 5 minutes

**Moderator:** Thanks for joining us today! My name is Jonathan and I also have some colleagues on the line observing and taking notes. Today we're going to talk about federal benefits that are provided to family members or caregivers of Veterans.


Before we start, a few things I want to mention::

- This entire session should take about 30 minutes. I want to be sure not to keep you much longer, so I may occasionally prompt you with the next question or topic.
- In this session, we want to hear your honest opinions. We are not testing your ability. We just want to improve these tools to better meet Veteran's needs. I will not be offended by any opinions you express, and I welcome your feedback.
- We will not be applying for any VA benefits today. Again, this is to get feedback and improve the tools.
- Please talk aloud as you're looking through things. For example say "now I'd click on this.. what's this?" this helps me understand what's going through your head while using the tool.
- To protect your privacy, we are not going to use your real name or Social Security Number today. Feel free to make-up a name, birthday, SSN...I can aways provide that information if you want
- If for any reason and at any time you want to stop the session, please let me know.
- Are you comfortable if I record my screen and audio as we talk today? We use the recordings to confirm that we have captured your opinions accurately. The recordings are destroyed after we complete analysis, and none of your comments will be attributed to you directly.
- If yes: 
- Once I start recording, I am going to confirm that you are ok with me recording this session once more.

**Start recording to the Cloud**

- I have started recording. I'd like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record my screen and the audio as we talk today?"

**Particpant:**
Yup!

## Warm-up Questions - 5 minutes

**Moderator:** Can you tell me a little about yourself? (Are you a Veteran with a caregiver? Caregiver with a Veteran?) 
My name is Max, I’m a stay at home dad. I take care of the kids while my wife works. 

M: Are you a Veteran?

Yes

**For Veterans:**

- Tell me a bit about the relationship you have with your caregiver? 
Uhm, well my wife is my caregiver. She pretty much manages my medication. She helps me in the shower. She drives for me. She does a lot! Jeez, I don’t know where to begin! 

M: Does your wife receive benefits?

Yes. I believe it’s called the Caregiver stipend. I’m not sure how much that is, though. 

- Are they a family member or friend? 

- Do they live with you?

    - If no, how often do they come over to check in on you?

- Does your caregiver receive any benefits from the VA? 

    - If yes, what sort of benefits?     

- Do you have more than one caregivers? 
Not really. No. 

    - If yes, what tell me a bit about that relationship? 

    -  Are they a family member or friend?

    -  Do they live with you? 


**For Caregivers:**

- Tell me a bit about the relationship you have with the Veteran? 

- Are they a family member or friend? 

- Do you live with the Veteran? 

     - If no, how often do you check in on the Veteran?

- Do you receive any benefits from the VA? 

     - If yes, what sort of benefits? 

- Does the Veteran  have more than one caregiver? 

     - If yes, can you tell me a bit about that relationship? 

     -  Are they a family member or friend? 

     -  Do they live with the Veteran? 

     
**Particpant:**

## First Task: [Applying for benefits] - 15 minutes

**Moderator:** Ok, given the information above, imagine that you’re applying for benefits for you (or your caregivers) through the Program of Comprehensive Assistance for Family Caregivers. Starting here (start on the content page), walk me through how you would do this.

**Particpant:**
*Participant scrolls down the page* 
Okay. 

*Veteran’s caregiver comes into the room to explain the task*
I’m gonna read it to make sure I’m eligible. Yes. 

M: Would you be able to determine if you were eligible?
Yes. I would be… let me see… yes, I would be eligible I believe. 

M: Can you show me how you’d apply to the program?

Uhm… I would go down here to where it says ‘How do I apply for this program’. And then I would click on ‘Apply for caregiver assistance’. Do I go ahead and do that?

M: Yup

*Participant proceeds into the form*
Okay…. I will read this. All of these steps… need to provide specific information… if I have questions… I believe I will have to fill out this ‘Download VA form 10-10CG PDF’ file. Should I do that?

M: What would you expect to happen?

I believe I would download this PDF file. 

M: If you wanted to not apply through a PDF. If you wanted to submit the application online, how would I do that?

I would have to call this number? ‘What if I have questions or need help filling out the form’?

M: You’d call for support filling it out. 

Yeah, or online ‘Caregiver Support Coordinator locator’

M: So you’d call those numbers to support you?

Yes.

M: For our purposes today, I’m gonna get you started in this application. Do you see any other way to continue besides that link? What if you scroll down to the bottom? 

Yes, ‘Start your application’? 

M: Okay. Can you tell me more about why you didn’t click on the ‘Start your application’ button at the top?

I wasn’t sure if you wanted me to! *laughs* 

M: You can click on it! Tell me what you’re seeing here. 

Alright, I’m seeing some boxes where I need to fill information. 

M: Can you tell me about the information you’d enter?

Obviously my first name, middle name is not required, last name is required. Social Security or tax identification number.. ‘Why is this required’… birth date… and Veteran’s sex. 

M: *Gives fake social* You can go ahead and enter a birth date in there. 

*Participant enters birth date* Click continue?

M: Is that what you’d do?

Yes

M: You can go ahead and do that.

Address… Address is required. 

M: Can you tell me about what you’d be entering here?

Phone number? Obviously I’d be entering my cell number. 

M: Got it. 

*Participant proceeds*
I’d probably enter the name of my medical facility *enters*
Was this a hospital or clinic… *selects*
*Fills out the rest of the page and continues*

Sure! (Relating to primary caregiver question*

M: Can you tell me why you said ‘sure’?

It asks, “Would you like to add the primary caregiver” and ‘What’s a primary family caregiver’. 
*Participant’s caregiver is talking but I can’t hear it*
Because I’d like to add my wife!  *Laughs*

M:  Seems like you read the question and were gonna select, ‘yes’ so you can do that

Okay! And…continue. And this is where I add the primary family caregiver. 

M: Whose information would you…

My wife’s - this is where I’d enter my wife’s [information]. *Enters his wife’s information and continues* 
Let’s see… is it in here… (searching for address to pre-fill) *Continuing to fill in address information* 

M: Again, Max, if you could tell me what you’re thinking!

Relationship is obviously gonna be my spouse. Continue..

M: Okay

Healthcare coverage… my wife does have tricare so I’m gonna hit ‘yes’ and hit continue. ‘Would you like to add a secondary caregiver?’ I’m gonna hit no cuz I don’t have one. Gonna hit continue. Says, “I certify that I’m the family member of… *reading out loud*. This is where… 

M: What would you do on this page?

Looks like this is where you electronically sign and certify that the information above is. correct. So I’d put my full name int he box and click [the checkbox]. And I’d have my wife do the same. And then submit the application. 

M: I noticed you scrolled down to the submit initially. 

Oh no no no I saw it! 

  
## Post-Task Interview - 5 minutes

**Moderator:** Great. A few last questions:

- Were you able to accomplish what you set out to do today? 

- What did you think of the overall experience in completing this form?

I thought it was pretty simple even for me, I mean! *laughs* I think it was.. what’s the word…

- Do you remember if you filled out this form? If so, how did you do it? Together with the caregiver/veteran?

M: Would you fill this out on your own?

Probably not because the information I have sometimes… what’s the word… I don’t have some of the information. I don’t remember some of the information. I need my wife to help me in those areas. I think if I had the information I’d be able to fill out the application on my own. 

M: But because sometimes you wouldn’t have that information you would not fill it out. Who would you fill it out with?

Oh, my wife! 

M: Was there anything particularly difficult?

No, not really! Like I said, my biggest challenge was the information putting into the boxes. Everything seemed pretty straightforward and pretty easy to navigate. 

- What worked well?

- Any questions for me?

Uhm, nope! 

**Particpant:**

## Thank-You and Closing 

Well we really appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us today. Your feedback is so helpful to us as we continue to improve our products and services for Veterans and service members.

Great, well thank you so much again, and enjoy the rest of your day!
