# Participant 1 #
Dec. 14, 2020 11 - Noon EST

Interviewer: Let’s get back to your appointment experience. You said that the protocol was different. How exactly was it different?

P1: The COVID testing. The mask and protocol and the escort. You wait online and they will call you for your appointment and make sure that you are not wandering around and the people who scheduled are the Veteran and the people that are going to be served. And to make sure that if you are the one being served, the collaboration with the ID and little stuff like that. 

Interviewer: Normally when you are coming in for an appointment is there a nurse that is asking you questions like “How are your feeling today?” How did that differ?

P1: That was the same. They would take your vitals and weight. That was the same.

Interviewer: Have you ever filled out a questionnaire at a VA appointment? A piece fo paper asking you a series of questions or has it always been the nurse?

P1: The questionnaire…It has always been the nurse. When I sit down, she has a ways done the questionnaires. It is probably kind of funny, but I’m probably one of the few VAs that goes onto the myHealthEVet and look at the questionnaires and see what they didn’t ask me about my medical care. They just go through it. Sometimes they ask me questions and sometimes they don’t. 

Interviewer: You have answer questions on myHealtheVet?

P1: I would look at my records and see my labs, test results and normally everything that is done during the day of the VA trip is there. They will ask you questions about suicide. You know the normal procedure. They didn’t ask, but they were filled like they were asked. You know and I looked into my records, because I want to know what’s in my record and things they missed like some of the testing requires me to do an MRI and if I don’t follow-up on that then it is maybe 6 months or year for my primary doctor to notice that. I would look at that and be like that is something that I would like to talk about. Those kind of things. Throughout the years, those things have been constant.

Interviewer: I’m going to send you in chat a link that you should be able to open up. 

P1: The only questionnaires that I do fill out by hand are the ones done in radiology or ultrasound. Those are the only ones that I fill out by hand. The others are just answering questions.

Interviewer: Great. Keep those questions in mind as we look through this prototype… Now I’ll have you click on the number 1. Then, I’m going to ask a bunch of questions. What are your impressions of this text message?

P1: Oh I enjoy it. I see it every time before my appointment to confirm.

Interviewer: Ok, so this is familiar to you.

P1: Yes. Every time that I have an appointment. I see this a week prior and a day prior.

Interviewer: What do you think about the N1 and Y1?

P1: It is ok with me. D1 is new. Normally I see N1 and Y1. I never noticed about the D1 for DETAILS. Yes1 and No1 that is it. The way I understand it is confirm and cancel. 

Interviewer: That makes sense to you and you never had a problem before. Why have you been sent these notifications?

P1: I believe that I submitted that I wanted to receive these messages and I did that. I’m not really sure. I’m pretty sure that they asked me if I wanted to receive a message incoming. Yes.

Interviewer: So you gave permission and that is when they started sending them to you. You mentioned that you get them approximately 7 days in advance. Is there any other time period that you receive these? 

P1: yes, 7 days and the day prior to the appointment and sometimes even on the same day.

Interviewer: Now in the middle of the text take a look at that type that says “To help us prepare for your appointment.” What do you think about that?

P1: Yeah. I like that. It gives you guidance to probably prepare for questions that we might not have available during an appointment, because sometimes when you go to the doctor they rush through it. That sounds like it could be a helpful tool.

Interviewer: Now I’m going to give you a scenario and I want you to complete the scenario. Please fill out the questionnaire that your provider has requested you complete. For this questionnaire, your name will be Hector Allen and you have an upcoming primary care appointment for your annual physical. Please narrate your thoughts as you complete the task.

P1: I click on the link and it tell me that I have to sign in.

Interviewer: What are your thoughts about signing in or what would you do now?

P1: Normally, I would sign in with myHealtheVet, because that is the one that I use. I like it, because it is verifying that it is me and that I’m inputting the information and not anybody else. 
Has no problem going through the prototype.
On the intro page…I like that it has the confidential information. On demographics page…I like that it has my information and I could do any update that I need to do to it. That is great. Sometimes that it has all my phone numbers. I enjoy that. 
On this visit page…I enjoy the question that says are there any other concerns or change in your life (for example: marriage and divorce).

Interviewer: Ok, why?

P1: Because for example in my personal case, I was struggling with my marriage and those are normally questions that are not asked at an appointment because you rush through it. Maybe the fear of not mentioning it. But sometimes when you have a questions like that, you sometimes are afraid to answer or mention it. I like that option is there. You could be like “I need help or I need therapy or anything like that,” which is good. Normally, I go in and I’m like I got diabetes or back pain, and they want to know about those conditions and they don’t want to know about any other problems or mental health problems. I enjoy that. I like where it asks if there are any other questions that I would like to ask my doctor if I want to. 

Interviewer: Is there any particular reason that you enjoy that one as well.

P1: Yeah. Because normally I would go to an appointment. For example when I was having sleep apnea. I went to the primary care doctor and was like I’m having trouble sleeping and my wife is telling me this and that, but he kind of ignored me, so when I went to an appointment, I took my wife with me to mention what was going on during my sleep. Then he listened and set me up with a sleep study. Normally those are the things that I would like to ask and for whatever reason, you are there and…maybe I would annotate the questions that I want, because sometimes when you go to the VA you feel rushed and you feel like you want to ask a question and they don’t listen to you. At least I have it on record that at least I asked those questions and the doctor didn’t answer it. 

Interviewer: So you are saying that it can help you prepare and not feel rushed and get the questions that you wanted to ask asked. Great. You made it to the end. You successfully complete the questionnaire. Now I’m going to take you back through the questionnaire and I’ll ask a bunch of questions.

On the introduction page…

You mentioned that the privacy was good, but what about the reason of the page? What are your impressions on the rest of the content. 

P1: The content is useful. It is clean and professional. I like the numbers there. The 911 and the crisis hot line. I think that could be upfront, because normally someone might not want to scroll down to get that information. Maybe having the number at the top of the page and something at the top would be beneficial. I might go through it quickly when scrolling down.

Interviewer: When reviewing this, when you think that your doctor would take a look at the questions or what you sent them?

P1: I don’t know. I think maybe. It would be depending upon their schedule, sometimes I email them and wait for a response. Sometimes I have to email them a couple times. Maybe when I’m there at the appointment they would probably look at it. 

Interviewer: Points them to sentence about when provider would review it with him.

P1: Right when you have an appointment. That’s normally what I would believe. They would open my record and discuss it during the appointment. 

Interviewer: Is there any other information that you believe should jeavailable on this page?

P1: Maybe because of the language barrier. It is something that. An option for Spanish. Anything else…maybe have that option available. I live in Puerto Rico, so maybe have that available, but anything else? I think the translation could help. 

Interviewer: That makes sense.

P1: That is it. At the beginning when verify phone numbers and address that was nice. Being able to translate it to Spanish would be my only suggestion.

On the this visit page…
Interviewer: What if you decide that you want to take some more time to think about questions for you provider? How could you save what you already entered, then come back and finish the form?

P1: I don’t see any option to save it. Normally I would make a screenshot, but I don’t see any option to come back and continue later. That would probably be a good option.

Interviewer: If you screenshot it, then what would you do? It sounds like…you would just log out? 

P1: I would probably just log out and screenshot it. Then delete the app for a minute. I would probably click on the link again in the text message and start all over. 

Interviewer: Take a look at the link under the buttons “Back” and “Continue.”

P1: Where is says “Finish this questionnaire later.”

Interviewer: What are your thoughts on that? What do you think it does?

P1: Save the questionnaire or your last answer. I feel that it could be bold or highlighted. When I glance it is visible, but I would bold it. I didn’t notice it quickly until you mentioned it.

On confirmation page…
Interviewer: what are your impressions of the information that we show here?

P1: I like the confirmation and that the information was sent. I love the option that I can view and print the questions, so that will help me follow-up with my appointment. It is pretty good to have that. 

Interviewer: Can you talk a little bit more about when and why you would view ad print this?

P1: I would do that specially when I look at when I have a lab test and there are a lot of questions. Normally when you go to an appointment, they look at the basics and your sugar levels are high or your cholesterol is high and you don’t know about it until you look. I would want to print questions, so I can follow-up about that. It would hold accountable my doctor. To show that hey I requested therapy or I also made documentation and we haven’t review it. Can we review this? Maybe I’d get better treatment and not be so fearful if I already printed out. I would be like I have these questions, can we go through them. I would be more prepared than just writing it on a piece of paper last minute and not even go through it. I like it- being able to print it.

Interviewer: It would help you guide when you are actually in the appointment. That makes sense. Which of the buttons on the page would you most likely be interested in viewing next?

P1: I would click on the appointment details. Just to make sure that I don’t make the mistake that I think that I have to go to hospital or something and it was a phone call that I was supposed to be expecting. 

Interviewer: Remember when we talked about saving your in-progress questionnaire answers. Pretend that you are returning to the form the next day after saving your current work and you lost the notification (email or text), where on va.gov would you look first to find this questionnaire?

P1: I believe that there would be a dashboard that lists my questionnaires as well as the section to view my appointments. 

Interviewer: Now, you found the main health questionnaires section on va.gov...(ask while displaying the marketing/Drupal page) What are your impressions of this page?

P1: I enjoy it, because the option to complete the questionnaire is there. It is telling why it is a great tool. Maybe it is a questionnaire and you are like how is this survey, so it tells me that it is regarding my appointment and it is going to let me talk about my sleep and I’m able to print that. It is guiding me through knowing that this is something that I could use as a Veteran, so it is big and it is green and it sticks out. I enjoy knowing how this will benefit me as a Veteran.

Interviewer: How valuable do you think the information on this page is to you?

P1: I think that it is going to be a great tool for me to continue to use with my appointments. And to be able to do something that through the years has been kind of difficult to do and change my line of communication with my primary care doctor. 

Interviewer: Is there any other information that you would include on this page=?

P1: No. I find it great. 

Interviewer: Have the participant click to the Questionnaire list (To do tab) What are your impressions of this page? What is the main purpose of this page?

P1: I’m feeling that it is telling me to use this to help me be more prepared for my upcoming appointment, which it is going to tell me what day and time and with who (the primary care and the cardiology). It helps me answer the questions. It is guiding me to be able to complete them. At the same time, you know when my upcoming appointment is and the details.

Interviewer: What do you think is the difference between those two cards on the screen?

P1: To do would be for me to complete the questionnaires and I’d be happy to do so and once I fill them out, then I’d be able to print them out. 

Interviewer: Look at the two buttons and let me know what the difference is. Why are they different?

P1: One is I asked questions and one is because I haven’t started that one.

Interviewer: What are your thoughts about the information provided?

P1: The name of the doctor that I’ll be seeing. That is always an issue knowing who the cardiology will be.

Interviewer: Your primary care provider just sent you a pre-visit questionnaire. Before you fill it out, you want to review your responses to your last primary care questionnaire. Find your last questionnaire and review your responses. Please narrate your thoughts as you complete the task.

P1: Successfully finds the PDF.

Interviewer: What are your impressions of this PDF?

P1: It isn’t so saturated with information.

Interviewer: You mentioned before when you finished the questionnaire, you saw value in printing it and taking it to your doctor’s appointment. When or what value would you get from being able to access ones that your previously completed?

P1: Oh definitely I find that useful. Having access to your personal record is good and being able to keep track of it on having it on file. I definitely for personal medical record, I appreciate this compared to a note book. Having the ability to go back to it, I find useful.

Interviewer: On the Questionnaire list (completed tab)…Can you tell me what you think the difference is between the cards shown on the screen?

P1: The primary I can view and print, because I submitted it. The cardiology says that I didn’t submit it, but I’d have to go back to the To Do list to complete. The last one don’t give me any options, because I didn’t submit it. It keeps me accountable to complete the questionnaires. That is I do it then I will have them available. 

Interviewer: What is the value of showing all the different types?

P1: Just keeping track of your health. We go to so many appointment that sometimes we don’t remember which one we did and which appointment. I definitely enjoy that. Sometimes we have so many tests and appointments that we don’t know who was who. So having those questionnaires and the days to keep us more focused and to follow-up. I enjoy that. 

Interviewer: Even showing the ones that you didn’t submit would be valuable? 

P1: yes. 

Interviewer: If clarification is needed, ask about their interest in seeing appointments that were canceled, but where you started to answer questions.

P1: yes, I would like to see those as well, because sometimes they will cancel and we have this and I could prove that I canceled instead of a no show that would be better for the Veteran that they submitted the proper mechanism to cancel the appointment. For example, I get a text and I cancel the appointment, but when I went to the hospital they go we didn’t listen to those text, because people can mark those as whatever that they cancel, so they are still waiting for the appointment to get here and we mark no show. So it would help to have evidence that we canceled and did our part.

Interviewer: If applicable, what about if we displayed "You can access your in-progress answers for the next X days?”

P1: Yeah. Definitely, you don’t want to keep that forever, but having a timeframe that you could see that available. Maybe have a link to the blue button or the appointment could go away at that time. You have the option on the va page. Maybe having it available for maybe four months or six months would be a good option. Look we have to get you to the tool and know that we might have to be more educated to complete the portion. We would know that it isn’t a permanent record, but it is there for us to complete questionnaires and help to guide an appointment. It would help hold us accountable, which I think is a good idea. 

Interviewer: Is this location where you would expect to come back to and see this list of completed questionnaires?

P1: Here would be good. 

Interviewer: Is there any other information that we should include on this page?- Would you want to see questionnaire responses over time?

P1: It could be good option, but this is good.

Interviewer: What if the questionnaire resulted in a score? Would you be interested in seeing your score over time?

P1: No. 
