# Participant 11
December 18, 2020 Noon - 1 pm EST

## Warm-up Questions - 3 minutes
Think about your last primary care provider visit at the VA. 	
- Did your appointment experience differ at all from past experiences due to COVID? If so, how?	
  - My last visit was before COVID.
- What was the experience prior to the appointment like? For example, did you have to fill out any forms before the appointment? Did the nurse ask you a lot of questions?
  - I filled out some forms in the waiting room. It asked for the symptoms that day, there was another for depression, and a third for weight loss. The nurse did not go over that with me more. 
  
## Questionnaire Scenarios - 30 minutes

### Scenario 1 - 15 minutes
Don’t click on anything yet. Just read the notification. 
- What are your impressions of this notification? If not mentioned, what do you think about entering Y1 and N1?
  - This looks like it'll take me to the same kind of questionnaire I usually have to filll out. When I first read through it, I did not notice the date. It would be good if that were more noticable - highlighted yellow. 
- Why do you believe that you would have been sent this notification?
  - I must have an upcoming appointment to go to the doctor. This is so that we can log things digitally instead of a paper form.
- How many days in advance of your appointment would you want to receive this notification?
  - I guess 3 days would be convienient, but I could understand if it is just the day before or day of. If I could do it on my phone then I could definitly do it the day of. I would prefer a text if that were the case.
- Would you be interested in receiving this notification multiple times? 
  - Yes, that would be fine. 
- What are the actions that you could take immediately based upon the (email or text) that you just received?
  - Unless I was really busy at the moment, I would just go ahead and do the questionnaire. 
  
Now, please fill out the questionnaire that your provider has requested you complete. For this questionnaire, your name will be Hector Allen and you have an upcoming primary care appointment for your annual physical. Please narrate your thoughts as you complete the task.
- I expect to have to sign in to get to the page. I usually use my DS logon. *success* This all makes sense, it's very clear. 

Next, we are going to go back to the beginning of the questionnaire, so I can ask a few questions about each page.

On the Introduction page, take some time now to review this page.
- What are your impressions of this page?
  - This seems like a disclosure statement about what I'm about to do and how it is used. I would want my doctor to look over my responses before the appointment. I would like to hear back within 3 days from submitting this - I think that's reasonable. *shown the statement that the provider will go over the responses during appointment* that makes sense. I just read over that the first time I looked at the page. That should be another highlighted bit of information. 
- What are your thoughts about the information provided?
  - I wouldn't necessarily say that I find this information valuable, but it makes sense to have this notice here. 
- Is there any other information we should include here?
  
On the This Visit page...
- What if you decide that you want to take some more time to think about questions for you provider? How could you save what you already entered, then come back and finish the form?
  - I noticed "finish this questionnaire later" earlier. I'm used to seeing that type of option on pages, but it is a little small on here. 
  
On the confirmation page, 
- What are your impressions of this page?
  - This looks good to me. 
- Which of the buttons on the page would you most likely be interested in viewing next? 
  - I would definitely utilize both of them. Especially the "appointment details" button just to review my appointment and going over what I need. 
- When (if at all) would you view and print questions? When (if at all) would you print this PDF?
  - I can't think of a situation in which I would use the view and print option. Unless I had a concern with the doctor addressing one of my concerns I wouldn’t need this - which is not an issue I've had with the VA.
  
Remember when we talked about saving your in-progress questionnaire answers. Pretend that you are returning to the form the next day after saving your current work and you lost the notification (email or text), where on va.gov would you look first to find this questionnaire? (Pick one.)
- I would use the search.
- I would navigate to a list of my appointments and expect a questionnaire link to appear in the details of my appointment.
- I would log in and expect to see a link on my dashboard to the questionnaires that I need to complete.
- I would use the main menu on va.gov to navigate to a health questionnaire section. _(If the participant selects this, make them pick their second option.)_
  - #3. I would log-in and expect it to be an action item, such as a badge.
  
### Scenario 2 - 15 minutes
Now, you found the main health questionnaires section on va.gov...(ask while displaying the marketing/Drupal page)
- What are your impressions of this page?
  - It looks good - it is what I would expect to see. I don't think I would try to find this through VA.gov. It would be easier to just follow the link from an email. 
- What are your thoughts about the information provided?
  - The piece about my information being protected is good to have/know.
- How valuable is the information on this page to you?
- Is there any other information that we should include on this page?
  - No, I don't think so.
  
Have the participant click to the Questionnaire list (To do tab)
- What are your impressions of this page?
  - It makes sense. It has the questionnaires that I haven't completed yet and a tab for the ones that I have - completed. 
- Can you tell me what you think the difference is between the cards shown on the screen? Ask about button wording if the difference isn't clear. 
  - The two cards are the two different questionnaires. I can tell that by the title but also the dates are different. "continue questions" sounds a little funny. I prefer "continue to questions" or just "answer questions." I don't know what the difference is. *explained the difference* Oh that makes sense. Maybe using the word "resume" could be better. I read "continue" as 'proceed to start', not 'return to finish.'
- What are your thoughts about the information provided?
  - It looks good. It may be good to have it all in bold font. I glanced over the appointment details section because the information above caught my eye more. I understand that the due date is more relevant for this case, but I read it as the due date was the appointment date. 
- How valuable is the information on this page to you?
- Is there any other information that we should include on this page?
  
Your primary care provider just sent you a pre-visit questionnaire. Before you fill it out, you want to review your responses to your last primary care questionnaire. Find your last questionnaire and review your responses. Please narrate your thoughts as you complete the task.
- *success* 

Click on the “View and print questions” button, what are your impressions of this PDF?
- When (if at all) would you view this PDF? When (if at all) would you print this PDF?
  - I can't think of any scenario where I would go back in and look at this. Unless I had to get some paperwork together - maybe for a claim.
- Would you want any additional information added to this PDF?
  - This all looks fine. It's got a snapshot of the appointment. 
  
_Have the participant go back to the Questionnaire list (completed tab)_
- What are your impressions of this page?
- Can you tell me what you think the difference is between the cards shown on the screen?
  - I see that one shows that it has been submitted.
- What are your thoughts about the information provided?
  - This is what I would expect to see. 
- How valuable is the information on this page to you?
- Is this location where you would expect to come back to and see this list of completed questionnaires?
- Is there any other information that we should include on this page?- Would you want to see questionnaire responses over time?
- Would you like to see your responses on questionnaires for appointments that were rescheduled or canceled? 
  - If I started a questionnaire for an apponitment that got rescheduled, I might want to go back and look at my responses depending on what I put in there. My logic says that if the appointment is canceled then I don't need the questionnaire. I would feel more comfortable having access to it, but I don't think I will actually have a need for it. 
- What if the questionnaire resulted in a score? Would you be interested in seeing your score over time?
  - If my questionnaire resulted in a score it would be nice to see it over time. 
