# Participant 13
December 18, 2020 2 - 3 pm EST

## Warm-up Questions - 3 minutes
Think about your last primary care provider visit at the VA. 	
- Did your appointment experience differ at all from past experiences due to COVID? If so, how?	
  - My last visit was pre-COVID. It was face-to-face. I did also have a virtual appointment about 2 months ago. 
- What was the experience prior to the appointment like? For example, did you have to fill out any forms before the appointment? Did the nurse ask you a lot of questions?
  - I did not fill out any forms in the waiting room, but I did have a nurse ask me some questions beforehand. For the virtual appointment, they called me the day-of for those questions. 
  
## Questionnaire Scenarios - 30 minutes

### Scenario 1 - 15 minutes
Don’t click on anything yet. Just read the notification. 
- What are your impressions of this notification? If not mentioned, what do you think about entering Y1 and N1?
  - It would be good to include the time of the appointment. I would say this should be sent a week in advance. 
- Why do you believe that you would have been sent this notification?
- How many days in advance of your appointment would you want to receive this notification?
  - 7 days, 3 days, and 1 day before the appointment.
- Would you be interested in receiving this notification multiple times? 
- What are the actions that you could take immediately based upon the (email or text) that you just received?
  
Now, please fill out the questionnaire that your provider has requested you complete. For this questionnaire, your name will be Hector Allen and you have an upcoming primary care appointment for your annual physical. Please narrate your thoughts as you complete the task.
- *success* This is pretty straightforwad and easy.

Next, we are going to go back to the beginning of the questionnaire, so I can ask a few questions about each page.

On the Introduction page, take some time now to review this page.
- What are your impressions of this page?
  - The font is all over the place. I can see 5 different fonts on this one page. It doesn't look professional and it makes it a little harder for the user. On the note at the bottom, it may be good to just have an option to autofill details, because the wording of the note is a little hard to understand…especially if someone isn't computer savvy. I wouldn't expect the doctor to look at this until the day of the appointment or during the appointment. 
- What are your thoughts about the information provided?
  - I like that it tells you it'll be added to my health record. I also like to know that it is encrypted. 
- Is there any other information we should include here?
  
On the This Visit page...
- What if you decide that you want to take some more time to think about questions for you provider? How could you save what you already entered, then come back and finish the form?
  - You could add some suggestions at the end of the first question as little reminders/nudges. The second question is good to ask. It would also be good to ask if they've been to the hospital since the last appointment. It's also good to have the questions option. For ordering questions...everything is important. It could be good to order them by level of concern. It would be good to see what the doctor thinks about ordering the questions. 
  
On the confirmation page, 
- What are your impressions of this page?
  - Looks good.
- Which of the buttons on the page would you most likely be interested in viewing next? 
  - I would use both of these.
- When (if at all) would you view and print questions? When (if at all) would you print this PDF?
  - I would print out my questionnaire when I'm finished to bring it with me to the appointment. 
  
Remember when we talked about saving your in-progress questionnaire answers. Pretend that you are returning to the form the next day after saving your current work and you lost the notification (email or text), where on va.gov would you look first to find this questionnaire? (Pick one.)
- I would use the search.
- I would navigate to a list of my appointments and expect a questionnaire link to appear in the details of my appointment.
- I would log in and expect to see a link on my dashboard to the questionnaires that I need to complete.
- I would use the main menu on va.gov to navigate to a health questionnaire section. _(If the participant selects this, make them pick their second option.)_
  - #3. I would want to see a badge on the homepage. 
  
### Scenario 2 - 15 minutes
Now, you found the main health questionnaires section on va.gov...(ask while displaying the marketing/Drupal page)
- What are your impressions of this page?
  - This is cool, it's like one-stop shopping. On the left, it has everything - I like it that way more than everything being at the top with dropdowns. Is this something that a veteran would get an email about a couple days in advance? Nobody is going to remember to come on this page and fill it out. It would be nice to get a reminder 3 days in advance. 
- What are your thoughts about the information provided?
  - Under, "what if I have more questions" having the phone number is nice but then you'll get patched through to the over-worked nurse. It would be nice if there were a personalized set of instructions depending on the users conditions or case.   "buisness with the VA" is broad and unclear. *at very bottom of page* 
- How valuable is the information on this page to you?
- Is there any other information that we should include on this page?
  - I'm curious as to why I have to create an account…oh I see, you can log in with DS log in or create one of the others.  It would also be good to include a link to Fisher House. 
  
Have the participant click to the Questionnaire list (To do tab)
- What are your impressions of this page?
  - Having to sign in to get to the questionnaire makes sense for privacy. What if someone had 6 different doctors that they saw…would there be 6 different cards? *realized that they were by appointment, not for different doctors*
- Can you tell me what you think the difference is between the cards shown on the screen? Ask about button wording if the difference isn't clear. 
  - The dates are different. The "continue questions" and "answer questions" distinction is confusing. I would think that I need to "answer questions" because "continue" makes it sound like I'm going back.
- What are your thoughts about the information provided?
- How valuable is the information on this page to you?
- Is there any other information that we should include on this page?
  - It would be good to include the building and room number. Especially if you're going to a big VA hospital
  
Your primary care provider just sent you a pre-visit questionnaire. Before you fill it out, you want to review your responses to your last primary care questionnaire. Find your last questionnaire and review your responses. Please narrate your thoughts as you complete the task.
- *took a couple of moments to find "completed"…originally thought it would appear with medical history.* 

Click on the “View and print questions” button, what are your impressions of this PDF?
- When (if at all) would you view this PDF? When (if at all) would you print this PDF?
  - The very last question should ask "do you have questionS" instead of being singular - question.   I would want to view this pdf. Sometimes a doctor is supposed to put in a referral, but doesn't. Having this will give you written confirmation. And sometimes you just forget what you talked to the doctor about, so being able to do this would help them go back and go over their talking points. I would even suggest people print their current questionnaires and bring them to the appointment. 
- Would you want any additional information added to this PDF?
  
_Have the participant go back to the Questionnaire list (completed tab)_
- What are your impressions of this page?
- Can you tell me what you think the difference is between the cards shown on the screen?
  - The bottom one does not have a date and does not have an option to "view and print." I wouldn't want to see unsubmitted questionnaires. I wouldn't want to see questionnaires that I started but didn't submitt. I only want to see the ones that I did submitt.
- What are your thoughts about the information provided?
- How valuable is the information on this page to you?
- Is this location where you would expect to come back to and see this list of completed questionnaires?
  - No, I would expect it to be on MyHealthyVet.
- Is there any other information that we should include on this page?- Would you want to see questionnaire responses over time?
  - You could change, "view and print questions" to "view and print questionnaire."
- Would you like to see your responses on questionnaires for appointments that were rescheduled or canceled? 
- What if the questionnaire resulted in a score? Would you be interested in seeing your score over time?
  - I would not want to see a score over time if the questionnaires resulted in one. 
  
Other: It would be good to add a question that asks, "are you safe at home?" It could be a discrete way to get help. Especially with COVID being considered.      It would be good to group them by specialty - all "Primary Care" together. 
