# Participant 2
Dec. 14, 2020 11 - Noon EST

## Warm-up Questions - 3 minutes
Think about your last primary care provider visit at the VA. 	
- Did your appointment experience differ at all from past experiences due to COVID? If so, how?	
    - Yes. There were more restrictions and screening, but overall it was about the same.
- What was the experience prior to the appointment like? For example, did you have to fill out any forms before the appointment? Did the nurse ask you a lot of questions?
  - Yes, the nurse had a lot of questions.

## Questionnaire Scenarios - 30 minutes

### Scenario 1 - 15 minutes
Don’t click on anything yet. Just read the notification. 
- What are your impressions of this notification? If not mentioned, what do you think about entering Y1 and N1?
  - Didn't notice the link to the questionnaire and has to have it pointed out. That's the same notifcation that I usually get. I'm used to seeing those. The Y1, N1, and D1 make sense to me, they are pretty self explanitory. Maybe veterans with sight issues would be better off giving a phone call instead of a text. I like the text option. 
- Why do you believe that you would have been sent this notification?
  - If I remember corretly it's a 3 day notice. 3 days seems like the right amount of time.  
- How many days in advance of your appointment would you want to receive this notification?
- Would you be interested in receiving this notification multiple times? 
- What are the actions that you could take immediately based upon the (email or text) that you just received?
  - I would press Y1 or make any adjustments/cancel. I don't know if I would click on the link to the questionnaire - I usually get to appointments a few minutes early to take care of any forms or questionnaires. 

Now, please fill out the questionnaire that your provider has requested you complete. For this questionnaire, your name will be Hector Allen and you have an upcoming primary care appointment for your annual physical. Please narrate your thoughts as you complete the task.
- First I need to sign in, this looks just like the usual sign-in process - I don't have any issues with that. I would then click "answer questions." *no issues going through questions* I think the question that asks about, "other concerns or changes in your life that could affect you" is good to include. Not many doctors ask that and it could be helpful info. I also like the option to ask other questions, that's always a good option to have too. Having this questionire on VA.gov will be good beacuse it's grouped in with everything else. 

Next, we are going to go back to the beginning of the questionnaire, so I can ask a few questions about each page.

On the Introduction page, take some time now to review this page.
- What are your impressions of this page?
    - I like that at the very top it says my answers will be kept in my medical records, that's helpful. My only concern is about how secure my information actually is.
- What are your thoughts about the information provided?
- Is there any other information we should include here?
	
On the This Visit page...
- What if you decide that you want to take some more time to think about questions for you provider? How could you save what you already entered, then come back and finish the form?
  - The questions being ordered by importance does not seem necessary. If I have 3 questions it may be hard to determine which is most important - I need an answer to all 3. If I had a lot of questions I can see a doctor not being able to get to everything.  I see the option at the bottom for saving and continuing the questionaire later. I think that's a good option esspecially for people who get irritated or confused. It would also give someone the option to mule over other things to include/questions to ask. Is there a time limit for how long I can save it before circling back? 24 hours would be good, esspecially if there were a reminder message that gets sent as the time limit approaches. wanted a reminder sent to him if he had saved and forgotten to come back to the saved in progress questionnaire.

On the confirmation page, 
- What are your impressions of this page?
  - This page looks good. It looks like a standard VA page. 
- Which of the buttons on the page would you most likely be interested in viewing next? 
	- I would click, "go to your appointment details" first and then I would go to, "go to your health questionnaires."
- When (if at all) would you view and print questions? When (if at all) would you print this PDF?
  - I would use the view and print button a couple days before my appointment begins. Would the print option be for filling out the forms? I would just rather do it online. A lot of veterans have so much paperwork already that we don't want anymore. 

Remember when we talked about saving your in-progress questionnaire answers. Pretend that you are returning to the form the next day after saving your current work and you lost the notification (email or text), where on va.gov would you look first to find this questionnaire? (Pick one.)
- I would use the search.
- I would navigate to a list of my appointments and expect a questionnaire link to appear in the details of my appointment: Yes, option 2. I would expect it to be under appointment details.
- I would log in and expect to see a link on my dashboard to the questionnaires that I need to complete.
- I would use the main menu on va.gov to navigate to a health questionnaire section. _(If the participant selects this, make them pick their second option.)_

### Scenario 2 - 15 minutes
Now, you found the main health questionnaires section on va.gov...(ask while displaying the marketing/Drupal page)
- What are your impressions of this page?
  - The sign-in option would take us to the questionaire right? I think it's good that you also include a phone number that I can call. I also like the option to find your primary care provider's contact number.
- What are your thoughts about the information provided?
- How valuable is the information on this page to you?
  - Yes
- Is there any other information that we should include on this page?

Have the participant click to the Questionnaire list (To do tab)
- What are your impressions of this page?
  - I notice the "to do" and "completed" tabs for the questionnaires. I like that those are seperated and that you can look at what was completed in the past.
- Can you tell me what you think the difference is between the cards shown on the screen? Ask about button wording if the difference isn't clear. 
  - The difference is that one is for pirmary care and the other is cardiology. The primary care card has the option to coninue questions but the cardiology one says to answer the questions. We already started the first one, but we haven't opened the other one yet. Is the due date for when the questionnaire should be completed? That makes sense to do it that way - it would help both you and the doctor. I would probably fill it out the day before by midnight.
- What are your thoughts about the information provided?
- How valuable is the information on this page to you?
- Is there any other information that we should include on this page?

Your primary care provider just sent you a pre-visit questionnaire. Before you fill it out, you want to review your responses to your last primary care questionnaire. Find your last questionnaire and review your responses. Please narrate your thoughts as you complete the task.
- You would need to click on, "completed." This looks like what I figured it would - it has all of the past questionnaires. 

Click on the “View and print questions” button, what are your impressions of this PDF?
- When (if at all) would you view this PDF? When (if at all) would you print this PDF?
  - I would check this before or after my appointment, depending on what I'm looking for. at first didnt see value in PDF with button but when shown the details of the printout he thought it was exteremly valuable so he could find out if the provider addressed his concerns after the appt.
- Would you want any additional information added to this PDF?

_Have the participant go back to the Questionnaire list (completed tab)_
- What are your impressions of this page?
  - I like that is shows whether you've completed the questionnaire and tells you some of the appointment details. understood the due date as it was a day before the appt. date
- Can you tell me what you think the difference is between the cards shown on the screen?
  - If I had mulitple questionnaires for primary care, would it be all under one or seperated by date or type? I would separate it by specialty - such as, neurology, gastroanterologist etc… 
- What are your thoughts about the information provided?
- How valuable is the information on this page to you?
- Is this location where you would expect to come back to and see this list of completed questionnaires?
  - This is where I'd prefer it be. 
- Is there any other information that we should include on this page?- Would you want to see questionnaire responses over time?
  - Wants filters/sort for date and speciality. It would be good to see my responses over time because I can see how my condition gets better or worse.
- Would you like to see your responses on questionnaires for appointments that were rescheduled or canceled? 
  - If I reschedule an appointment, it would be good if the new appointment kept the answers. If it were canceled, it would be good to have a copy. 
- What if the questionnaire resulted in a score? Would you be interested in seeing your score over time?
