# Participant 3
December 15, 2020 3 - 4 pm EST

## Warm-up Questions - 3 minutes
Think about your last primary care provider visit at the VA. 	
- Did your appointment experience differ at all from past experiences due to COVID? If so, how?	
  - I did it online so it was a major difference from that standpoint. Overall, there musn't much of a differnece because I talked to my doctor as if he was in the room. He just couldn't physically check anything out, but my appointment wasn't for that anyway. - What was the experience prior to the appointment like? For example, did you have to fill out any forms before the appointment? Did the nurse ask you a lot of questions?
- What was the experience prior to the appointment like? For example, did you have to fill out any forms before the appointment? Did the nurse ask you a lot of questions?
  - I believe I went straight to the doctor when I started my appointment . It's been 6 months I don't remember too well. 
  
## Questionnaire Scenarios - 30 minutes

### Scenario 1 - 15 minutes
Don’t click on anything yet. Just read the notification. 
- What are your impressions of this notification? If not mentioned, what do you think about entering Y1 and N1?
  - It seems pretty straightforward. I assume I just click on this link to tell them about what's going on and what I need. 
- Why do you believe that you would have been sent this notification?
  - It was sent for me to go through and complete what's in the link. I'd give them the details that they need and answer pre-appointment questions.
- How many days in advance of your appointment would you want to receive this notification?
  - 7 days would be nice. But I guess 1 day in advance would also be fine.
- Would you be interested in receiving this notification multiple times? 
  - No I wouldn't need to get it twice. 
- What are the actions that you could take immediately based upon the (email or text) that you just received?

Now, please fill out the questionnaire that your provider has requested you complete. For this questionnaire, your name will be Hector Allen and you have an upcoming primary care appointment for your annual physical. Please narrate your thoughts as you complete the task.
  - This look similare to what I'm used to for signing in to get my prescriptions filled, which is mostly what I sign in for. *once logged in* I would click "answer questions." *continued through form with no issues -success* 
  
Next, we are going to go back to the beginning of the questionnaire, so I can ask a few questions about each page.

On the Introduction page, take some time now to review this page.
- What are your impressions of this page?
  - The beginning seems the most important. It tells me about what happens after I answer the questions - I guess that's important. The section about protecting my information is something that I see so many times that it isn't even information for me now. 
- What are your thoughts about the information provided?
- Is there any other information we should include here?
  - The only other thing I would want to know is which doctor I'm visiting, but that's a hard thing to track and keep up with.
	
On the This Visit page...
- What if you decide that you want to take some more time to think about questions for you provider? How could you save what you already entered, then come back and finish the form?
  - The first questions makes sense, it's exactly what we'll be talking about in the appointment so it's a typical question to ask. The second question is good. It'll at least help keep the doctor up to date or refreshed. I like that the third question is included. It's one of those things that's good to get done ahead of time. I think the part about putting your most important question first is good. It makes sense to me. I would put something like head pain first. *asked  how they would save their responses and finish them another time* I would click this here that says, "finish this questionaire later." It isn't all that noticable, but putting it all over the page isn't necessary. 
  
On the confirmation page, 
- What are your impressions of this page?
  - It would be good to also say who the doctor is. It's good that it gives you the VA medical center and date but I'd like it to also say the doctor or provide who's going to be receiving this.
- Which of the buttons on the page would you most likely be interested in viewing next? 
- When (if at all) would you view and print questions? When (if at all) would you print this PDF?
  - I probably would, but that's my personality. It would be nice to see what it turns out like vs. how I entered it. I could also catch a mistake. I would probably bring it with me to the VA Center. I typically bring things with me so this could be my reminder of the things I want to look at/talk about. 
  
Remember when we talked about saving your in-progress questionnaire answers. Pretend that you are returning to the form the next day after saving your current work and you lost the notification (email or text), where on va.gov would you look first to find this questionnaire? (Pick one.)
- I would use the search.
- I would navigate to a list of my appointments and expect a questionnaire link to appear in the details of my appointment.
- I would log in and expect to see a link on my dashboard to the questionnaires that I need to complete.
- I would use the main menu on va.gov to navigate to a health questionnaire section. _(If the participant selects this, make them pick their second option.)_
  - #3 the notification on my dashboard would probably be where I look. A lot of my friends would search, but then you have to know what it's called. The main menu would be my second option. 
  
### Scenario 2 - 15 minutes
Now, you found the main health questionnaires section on va.gov...(ask while displaying the marketing/Drupal page)
- What are your impressions of this page?
  - I like the "complete health care questionnaires" in bold and black on the right side - that really stood out to me to show I was I the right spot. 
- What are your thoughts about the information provided?
  - I like all of this information. I think this would answer all of the question I could think of. 
- How valuable is the information on this page to you?
- Is there any other information that we should include on this page?

Have the participant click to the Questionnaire list (To do tab)
- What are your impressions of this page?
  - It's easy to find -it looks straightforward. 
- Can you tell me what you think the difference is between the cards shown on the screen? Ask about button wording if the difference isn't clear. 
  - *understood that they were two different questionnaires, but did not understand why the cardiologist card was there at first* The cardiologist one says continue questions instead of saying to start them so I guess that one is in progress.
- What are your thoughts about the information provided?
  - The time and date are exactly what I would want to know. Having it due the day before the appointment makes sense, it could even be up to a week.
- How valuable is the information on this page to you?
- Is there any other information that we should include on this page?
  - It would be good to include the appointment time by the date.

Your primary care provider just sent you a pre-visit questionnaire. Before you fill it out, you want to review your responses to your last primary care questionnaire. Find your last questionnaire and review your responses. Please narrate your thoughts as you complete the task.
- *success* I like this because it gives the opportunity to look over it. I probably would go back and look at questionnaires from past visits because I may go 6 months between visits. For me it would be useful. 
- *easily found*

Click on the “View and print questions” button, what are your impressions of this PDF?
- When (if at all) would you view this PDF? When (if at all) would you print this PDF?
- Would you want any additional information added to this PDF?

_Have the participant go back to the Questionnaire list (completed tab)_
- What are your impressions of this page?
  - So this tells me about the last visit? This has everything I'd need to know. 
- Can you tell me what you think the difference is between the cards shown on the screen?
  - The first one lets me know about the questionnaire I took. The second one is a cardiology one and the last one is telling me I need to submit it. Since this one was not submitted, but since it is from January of 2020, I would not worry about it at this point. If I rescheduled an appointment I assume they would just keep the questionnaire and indicate that is is rescheduled.
- What are your thoughts about the information provided?
- How valuable is the information on this page to you?
- Is this location where you would expect to come back to and see this list of completed questionnaires?
- Is there any other information that we should include on this page?- Would you want to see questionnaire responses over time?
  - It would be nice to see responses over time - that would be neat. It would be good to see how it's progressed. It isn't necessary but I would like to see it. 
- Would you like to see your responses on questionnaires for appointments that were rescheduled or canceled? 
- What if the questionnaire resulted in a score? Would you be interested in seeing your score over time?
  -  I guess I would like to see that. I don't know what the score would mean but it'd be interesting.
