# Participant 4
December 16, 2020 2 - 3 pm EST

## Warm-up Questions - 3 minutes
Think about your last primary care provider visit at the VA. 	
- Did your appointment experience differ at all from past experiences due to COVID? If so, how?	
  - *in-person post-COVID visit* Other than the mask it was similar.
- What was the experience prior to the appointment like? For example, did you have to fill out any forms before the appointment? Did the nurse ask you a lot of questions?
  - For this appointment, the nurse called me the day before and asked me a bunch of questions. 

## Questionnaire Scenarios - 30 minutes

### Scenario 1 - 15 minutes
Don’t click on anything yet. Just read the notification. 
- What are your impressions of this notification? If not mentioned, what do you think about entering Y1 and N1?
  - I have not seen one of these notifications before. I usually just get emails. The Y1 and N1 seem like a fine system. I wouldn't ever want to enter anything other than Y1 or N1.
- Why do you believe that you would have been sent this notification?
  - Because I have an appointment coming up with the VA
- How many days in advance of your appointment would you want to receive this notification?
  - 2 or 3 days for either a text or email. 
- Would you be interested in receiving this notification multiple times? 
  - Yes. 3 days in advance and the day before
- What are the actions that you could take immediately based upon the (email or text) that you just received?
  - I would reply and then do the questionnaire

Now, please fill out the questionnaire that your provider has requested you complete. For this questionnaire, your name will be Hector Allen and you have an upcoming primary care appointment for your annual physical. Please narrate your thoughts as you complete the task.
  - It would be good if there was a link or way to update your personal information on the page where it is listed so that we can do it from right here if something needs to be updated. *continued through questionnaire with no isses - success*  

Next, we are going to go back to the beginning of the questionnaire, so I can ask a few questions about each page.

On the Introduction page, take some time now to review this page.
- What are your impressions of this page?
  - It tells me how the questionnaire will be used and how far in advance it should be completed. It may be nice if there were an option to not receive this introduction page every time - an option to acknolwedge that you understand the info.  I assume we would fill this questionnaire out right before the appointment.
- What are your thoughts about the information provided?
- Is there any other information we should include here?
  - Not that I can think of.
  
On the This Visit page...
- What if you decide that you want to take some more time to think about questions for you provider? How could you save what you already entered, then come back and finish the form?
  - These types of questions are good to have to get them done beforehand. If I wanted to save my answers and come back I would just click the option that says it'll save my answers - it was easy to find. 
  
On the confirmation page, 
- What are your impressions of this page?
  - It's nice that it gives contact information for questions. It would be good to copy the appointment info/details on this page so you can review it again. 
- Which of the buttons on the page would you most likely be interested in viewing next? 
  - I would use the "appointment details" button. But, I would rather have all of that information combined on this page to have it in one spot.
- When (if at all) would you view and print questions? When (if at all) would you print this PDF?
  - I don't think I would print it.
  
Remember when we talked about saving your in-progress questionnaire answers. Pretend that you are returning to the form the next day after saving your current work and you lost the notification (email or text), where on va.gov would you look first to find this questionnaire? (Pick one.)
- I would use the search.
- I would navigate to a list of my appointments and expect a questionnaire link to appear in the details of my appointment.
- I would log in and expect to see a link on my dashboard to the questionnaires that I need to complete.
- I would use the main menu on va.gov to navigate to a health questionnaire section. _(If the participant selects this, make them pick their second option.)_
  - I would do #3 - the dashboard. 
  
### Scenario 2 - 15 minutes
Now, you found the main health questionnaires section on va.gov...(ask while displaying the marketing/Drupal page)
- What are your impressions of this page?
- What are your thoughts about the information provided?
- How valuable is the information on this page to you?
  - This information is valuable. 
- Is there any other information that we should include on this page?

Have the participant click to the Questionnaire list (To do tab)
- What are your impressions of this page?
  - It looks like these are my appointments with questionnaires and they want me to fill it out ahead of time. 
- Can you tell me what you think the difference is between the cards shown on the screen? Ask about button wording if the difference isn't clear. 
  - The two cards are different appointments. The second is for specialty care beyond primary care.
- What are your thoughts about the information provided?
- How valuable is the information on this page to you?
- Is there any other information that we should include on this page?
  - I don't think so - you already have the location of the appointment, which is nice.
  
Your primary care provider just sent you a pre-visit questionnaire. Before you fill it out, you want to review your responses to your last primary care questionnaire. Find your last questionnaire and review your responses. Please narrate your thoughts as you complete the task.
- I'll start by clicking on the primary care questionnaire…so continue questionnaire. Wait, I'll use the "completed" tab above. *success*
- It was easy. 

Click on the “View and print questions” button, what are your impressions of this PDF?
- When (if at all) would you view this PDF? When (if at all) would you print this PDF?
  - I think the pdf looks good, it has the information you'd need. I don't know if I would look at this pdf - maybe to check when I first started having an issue. But I don't think I'd use it. 
- Would you want any additional information added to this PDF?
  - It could be good to include a list of diagnoses or chronic issues. 

_Have the participant go back to the Questionnaire list (completed tab)_
- What are your impressions of this page?
- Can you tell me what you think the difference is between the cards shown on the screen?
  - The cards show if I've started, completed, or not submitted, a questionnaire. 
- What are your thoughts about the information provided?
- How valuable is the information on this page to you?
- Is this location where you would expect to come back to and see this list of completed questionnaires?
- Is there any other information that we should include on this page?- Would you want to see questionnaire responses over time?
- Would you like to see your responses on questionnaires for appointments that were rescheduled or canceled? 
  - If I started a questionnaire but did not finish it or had to reschedule, then I would want my answers to be saved for the next time I need them.
- What if the questionnaire resulted in a score? Would you be interested in seeing your score over time?
  -  If it gave me a score, I would want to see them over time, but the score itself at any given time is not important. 
