# Participant 5
December 16, 2020 3 - 4 pm EST

## Warm-up Questions - 3 minutes
Think about your last primary care provider visit at the VA. 	
- Did your appointment experience differ at all from past experiences due to COVID? If so, how?	
  - *CAREGIVER* We've done both in-person and virtual visits. The last time we visited, he (veteran) went in for a CT with radiology. There were actually 2 appointments, the first didn't go as well, but the second did. The first time we went, they were unprepared - he needed assistance and they did not have the proper staff. We were scheduled on an odd hour over the weekend. The second visit, during the week, went much better. They had everybody they needed.
- What was the experience prior to the appointment like? For example, did you have to fill out any forms before the appointment? Did the nurse ask you a lot of questions?
  - We did not have to fill out any questionnaires beforehand. The nurse did ask him a series of questions before his CT.
  
## Questionnaire Scenarios - 30 minutes

### Scenario 1 - 15 minutes
Don’t click on anything yet. Just read the notification. 
- What are your impressions of this notification? If not mentioned, what do you think about entering Y1 and N1?
  - I like it. If this were sent to me via MyHealthyVet. This would work for me.
- Why do you believe that you would have been sent this notification?
- How many days in advance of your appointment would you want to receive this notification?
  - At least 10 days.
- Would you be interested in receiving this notification multiple times? 
  - Yes, in case I forget. The second should be sent a week before if I haven't responded.
- What are the actions that you could take immediately based upon the (email or text) that you just received?
  - I'd click the link and complete it.

Now, please fill out the questionnaire that your provider has requested you complete. For this questionnaire, your name will be Hector Allen and you have an upcoming primary care appointment for your annual physical. Please narrate your thoughts as you complete the task.
- *success* This looks good to me. I like the 2nd and 3rd options for updates and adding questions. 

Next, we are going to go back to the beginning of the questionnaire, so I can ask a few questions about each page.

On the Introduction page, take some time now to review this page.
- What are your impressions of this page?
  - This page looks good. I like the part about them saying they're going to protect my information. The "what happens after you submit questionnaire" is probably the most important to me. That lets me know that I won't have to go back through what I filled out because they will have seen this. The three questions look good, I think they are important. I would definently fill this out beforehand. 
- What are your thoughts about the information provided?
- Is there any other information we should include here?
  
On the This Visit page...
- What if you decide that you want to take some more time to think about questions for you provider? How could you save what you already entered, then come back and finish the form?
  -When I go to answer a questionnaire like this I'm already prepared so I would already have what I need ready. I probably wouldn't save them and come back. If I needed to save this I would call the office and talk to someone. *shown "finish questionnaire later" * That's a good option to have because life is crazy and you never know when you'll need to stop and come back later. 
  
On the confirmation page, 
- What are your impressions of this page?
  - It looks good to me. It shows that it's been submitted so if anything came up I'd just call.
- Which of the buttons on the page would you most likely be interested in viewing next? 
  - If I had to choose between the two would use "go to your health questionnaires" more. I would probably already have my appointment details.
- When (if at all) would you view and print questions? When (if at all) would you print this PDF?
  - I would probably print this and bring it with me to the appointment. I usually have questions either written down or in my phone. 
  
Remember when we talked about saving your in-progress questionnaire answers. Pretend that you are returning to the form the next day after saving your current work and you lost the notification (email or text), where on va.gov would you look first to find this questionnaire? (Pick one.)
- I would use the search.
- I would navigate to a list of my appointments and expect a questionnaire link to appear in the details of my appointment.
- I would log in and expect to see a link on my dashboard to the questionnaires that I need to complete.
- I would use the main menu on va.gov to navigate to a health questionnaire section. _(If the participant selects this, make them pick their second option.)_
  - #2 - in the appointment list
  
### Scenario 2 - 15 minutes
Now, you found the main health questionnaires section on va.gov...(ask while displaying the marketing/Drupal page)
- What are your impressions of this page?
  - My impressions of this page are good so far. It looks similar to pages I go to all the time. I have all of the log-ins so we can do everything on here. I'm a big advocate for doing things online like this so I like it so far. I scrolled through and read what was on the page and looked over the options on the side bar. It looks familiar and friendly - I could use it. I like that it has you sign in - I'm familiar with the process and it's good to verify that it's me logging in.
- What are your thoughts about the information provided?
- How valuable is the information on this page to you?
- Is there any other information that we should include on this page?
  - No there's a lot on here. It looks like everything on here is something I could use now or in the future. 

Have the participant click to the Questionnaire list (To do tab)
- What are your impressions of this page?
  - The "to do" list looks good. 
- Can you tell me what you think the difference is between the cards shown on the screen? Ask about button wording if the difference isn't clear. 
  - It looks like these are appointments that I have coming up. I just need to answer the question they each have. One is for primary care and the other is cardiology. The "answer questions" makes sense, I click there to go and answer the questions. The "continue questions" is a little confusing to me. It seems like I should do the first one and then go to this one with it saying "answer question." *told about distinction* okay, that works for me. 
- What are your thoughts about the information provided?
- How valuable is the information on this page to you?
  - It's very valuable. It reminds you that you have appointments coming and that you need to answer questions beforehand. 
- Is there any other information that we should include on this page?
  - It would be good to give me descriptive directions. Especially floor or room numbers.
  
Your primary care provider just sent you a pre-visit questionnaire. Before you fill it out, you want to review your responses to your last primary care questionnaire. Find your last questionnaire and review your responses. Please narrate your thoughts as you complete the task.
- I could just click on "completed" and see my past responses. This is helpful because I could go back to one and see how I answered previously before doing my next one. I would especially do it if it's with the same doctor or for a condition that I've had in the past.
- *easy*

Click on the “View and print questions” button, what are your impressions of this PDF?
- When (if at all) would you view this PDF? When (if at all) would you print this PDF?
  - I think it's pretty thorough. It has all of the information I'd need on here and it'd help me review. 
- Would you want any additional information added to this PDF?

_Have the participant go back to the Questionnaire list (completed tab)_
- What are your impressions of this page?
- Can you tell me what you think the difference is between the cards shown on the screen?
  - I'd say the first one is completed, the second has not been submitted, and the third is not completed and there isn't a tab to clik on for it. The first is done, the other two are not. If there's no way for me to submit the questionnaire because it has passed, then there is no use for me to see the card. 
- What are your thoughts about the information provided?
- How valuable is the information on this page to you?
- Is this location where you would expect to come back to and see this list of completed questionnaires?
  - I think this should be on MyHealthyVet. That's my go-to and it's where most things are done.
- Is there any other information that we should include on this page?- Would you want to see questionnaire responses over time?
- Would you like to see your responses on questionnaires for appointments that were rescheduled or canceled? 
  - If I started answering questions for an apppointment that got canceled or rescheduled then I wont need to see my responses - I have no use for them.
- What if the questionnaire resulted in a score? Would you be interested in seeing your score over time?
  - I wouldn't want to see them in one view over time. I'd want to be able to view them individually. If there were a score from my appointment I would not want to see my score over time.
  
  Other: I like what I see here, so I hope this is something that's coming soon. It'll definitly help me and save some time. 
