# Participant 6
December 17, 2020 9 - 10 am EST

## Warm-up Questions - 3 minutes
Think about your last primary care provider visit at the VA. 	
- Did your appointment experience differ at all from past experiences due to COVID? If so, how?	
  - My last visit was pre-COVID.
- What was the experience prior to the appointment like? For example, did you have to fill out any forms before the appointment? Did the nurse ask you a lot of questions?
  - I had to fill out a little bit of paperwork, not much. I did that in the waiting room. They asked me some standard demographic questions. When I went with the nurse, they asked me a couple more questions - some of which were just verification questions.  

## Questionnaire Scenarios - 30 minutes

### Scenario 1 - 15 minutes
Don’t click on anything yet. Just read the notification. 
- What are your impressions of this notification? If not mentioned, what do you think about entering Y1 and N1?
  - It seems to give me enough detail to complete the questionnaire and if I had questions they give me contact information to reach out. 
- Why do you believe that you would have been sent this notification?
- How many days in advance of your appointment would you want to receive this notification?
  - If it were only a one time thing - a day or two before the appointment.
- Would you be interested in receiving this notification multiple times? 
  - Once would be good if you're the type of person who stays on top of what they need to do - but that's not everybody. It would be good to get one email a week before and then another a day or two beforehand. In this digital world now, I would prefer a text actually. 
- What are the actions that you could take immediately based upon the (email or text) that you just received?
  - I would go ahead and do the questionnaire. 
  
Now, please fill out the questionnaire that your provider has requested you complete. For this questionnaire, your name will be Hector Allen and you have an upcoming primary care appointment for your annual physical. Please narrate your thoughts as you complete the task.
- Being taken to a sign-in page is good as a safegaurd. *success*

Next, we are going to go back to the beginning of the questionnaire, so I can ask a few questions about each page.

On the Introduction page, take some time now to review this page.
- What are your impressions of this page?
  - I see a page like this often with the VA.   When I submit this questionnaire I would expect to hear back within a week from the doctor - depending on workload. *directed to info about reviewing before appointment* That's great, if they can read over my responses and be ready to discuss during the appointment. In my experience, the doctors aren't always able to be as prepared as they'd like to - not limited to the VA. 
- What are your thoughts about the information provided?
  - The instructions are helpful.
- Is there any other information we should include here?
  - It would be good to inlcude the day that this questionnaire needs to be submitted by. I should have 24-48 hours, or maybe 48-72 hours, to complete it. If that's the case then you would need to send the notification early in the process to give people time - esspecially the procrastinators. 
  
On the This Visit page...
- What if you decide that you want to take some more time to think about questions for you provider? How could you save what you already entered, then come back and finish the form?
  - The first question is to give the doctor a better idea of what's going on. I would probably add more information than just "back pain" to give more detail. I'd probably tell him how it happened too. The second question may get a range of responses because some people are not as willing to go into personal details of their life. A new baby would get shared, but a cancer diagnosis may not. I think these questions are beneficial. You willl probably get a lot of feedback on the first and third questions, but maybe not on the second. I've seen other questionnaires that have a save and continue feature - that's really good to have. I do not see anything on this questionnaire that can do that. *directed to "finish this questionnaire later"* I think some poepe could over look that, like me, but it is good to have. It also comes down to how long the questionnaire is. Some people may not care about saving for shorter questionnaires. 
  
On the confirmation page, 
- What are your impressions of this page?
  - My only concern would be if my responses are sent to only the primary care providers or if just anyone at the VA can access my responses. I would definitly want to know that. If it went in my medical records, that would be fine. It would be good for going to other doctors within the VA. 
- Which of the buttons on the page would you most likely be interested in viewing next? 
  - I would probably use the button that takes me to the other questionnaires. 
- When (if at all) would you view and print questions? When (if at all) would you print this PDF?
  - I'd like to print it out and take it with me to the appointment. It would be good to be able to go back and see what I said. 
  
Remember when we talked about saving your in-progress questionnaire answers. Pretend that you are returning to the form the next day after saving your current work and you lost the notification (email or text), where on va.gov would you look first to find this questionnaire? (Pick one.)
- I would use the search.
- I would navigate to a list of my appointments and expect a questionnaire link to appear in the details of my appointment.
- I would log in and expect to see a link on my dashboard to the questionnaires that I need to complete.
- I would use the main menu on va.gov to navigate to a health questionnaire section. _(If the participant selects this, make them pick their second option.)_
  - #2 - I would go to the appointment section.
  
### Scenario 2 - 15 minutes
Now, you found the main health questionnaires section on va.gov...(ask while displaying the marketing/Drupal page)
- What are your impressions of this page?
  - After reading through this it looks like all of the information is sufficient without being overwhelming. The tabs to the left are helpful. 
- What are your thoughts about the information provided?
  - I like all of the information that is here. It is very helpful - especially for new users.
- How valuable is the information on this page to you?
- Is there any other information that we should include on this page?
  - I can't pinpoint anything that should be added. 
  
Have the participant click to the Questionnaire list (To do tab)
- What are your impressions of this page?
  - It looks good. It highlights the questionnaires that I need to take.
- Can you tell me what you think the difference is between the cards shown on the screen? Ask about button wording if the difference isn't clear. 
  - The biggest difference I notice are the dates. One will probably be more general (primary care) and the other will be more specific (cardiology). The difference between continue questionnaire and answer questionnaire may be unclear to some people. I think the "answer questionnaire" is for the first part (primary care). Once I finish that one I would go to "continue questionnaire." They seem to be part of the same questionnaire, but different parts/specificness/dates. 
- What are your thoughts about the information provided?
  - I think it is laid out well. 
- How valuable is the information on this page to you?
- Is there any other information that we should include on this page?
  
Your primary care provider just sent you a pre-visit questionnaire. Before you fill it out, you want to review your responses to your last primary care questionnaire. Find your last questionnaire and review your responses. Please narrate your thoughts as you complete the task.
- *clicked "completed" tab* I see that I had a primary care questionnaire that was submitted. The bottom two don't look like they have been finished, so I'll open the first one. *success*
- This was easy for me. You just toggle to the completed questionnaire and then click the one you want. In this case, it was the only completed one. 

Click on the “View and print questions” button, what are your impressions of this PDF?
- When (if at all) would you view this PDF? When (if at all) would you print this PDF?
  - The average person is not going to come back here and look at this pdf. I would use it to check my medical history and previous care. I had a situation where I went to another provider after visiting the VA. I hear very different opinions from the two doctors - so using this pdf as a reference could help compare the difference.
- Would you want any additional information added to this PDF?
  - It has a lot of the info I'd need. It could be useful for caregivers to be added to this pdf. Caregiver's health tends to deminish as they are caring for someone else. Sometimes they just need a break, but they don't always know WHEN they need a break. 

_Have the participant go back to the Questionnaire list (completed tab)_
- What are your impressions of this page?
- Can you tell me what you think the difference is between the cards shown on the screen?
  - The first one tells me that I submitted a questionnaire and it gives me the details. If I clicked on it I assume it would give me my responses. The second one looks like I have started it, but not finished. The third card shows an appointment from the past that I never submitted a questionnaire for. I like that it still shows the 3rd card to know that I had an appointment, but just didn't complete the questionnaire. It could be good to reference. 
- What are your thoughts about the information provided?
- How valuable is the information on this page to you?
- Is this location where you would expect to come back to and see this list of completed questionnaires?
- Is there any other information that we should include on this page?- Would you want to see questionnaire responses over time?
- Would you like to see your responses on questionnaires for appointments that were rescheduled or canceled? 
  - If I had started a questionnaire for an appointment that was canceled it would be good to see my responses so that I can reference and follow up later. It is 50/50 though because it won't always be useful. If the VA was only able to hold the information for a certain amount of time then it would be good to offer a pdf so that I can download it before they take it down. 
- What if the questionnaire resulted in a score? Would you be interested in seeing your score over time?
  - I like the layout you have now, I would not want to see all of them in one view. 
  
Other: If they resulted in a score (such as mental health), I would want to see them over time. 
