# Participant 7
December 17, 2020 10 - 11 am EST

## Warm-up Questions - 3 minutes
Think about your last primary care provider visit at the VA. 	
- Did your appointment experience differ at all from past experiences due to COVID? If so, how?	
  - My last visit was post COVID - March. (virtual)
- What was the experience prior to the appointment like? For example, did you have to fill out any forms before the appointment? Did the nurse ask you a lot of questions?
  - Pre-COVID, the nurse would ask some questions and take my vitals. Post-COVID, they did not take my vitals, but they still asked me some questions. The nurse called me immidiatly before I talked to the doctor. Post COVID, they call you before the appointment and ask some questions. 
  
## Questionnaire Scenarios - 30 minutes

### Scenario 1 - 15 minutes
Don’t click on anything yet. Just read the notification. 
- What are your impressions of this notification? If not mentioned, what do you think about entering Y1 and N1?
  - I'm used to getting notifications like this - it's a fine system. 
- Why do you believe that you would have been sent this notification?
- How many days in advance of your appointment would you want to receive this notification?
  - 3-4 days. Right now, I get them 2 days in advance. 
- Would you be interested in receiving this notification multiple times? 
  - I would be interested in that, it would be helpful. I think 3 days in advance and then the day before will be good. 
- What are the actions that you could take immediately based upon the (email or text) that you just received?
  - I would click the link to take the questionnaire. 
  
Now, please fill out the questionnaire that your provider has requested you complete. For this questionnaire, your name will be Hector Allen and you have an upcoming primary care appointment for your annual physical. Please narrate your thoughts as you complete the task.
- I would click on "to do." From there I would go down to the Primary Care section and click "answer questions." So this is something that is done by a 3rd party? It says, "we'll send to your provider." That makes it sound like it isn't already the VA that is asking these questions. I like the note that says to add your most important question first. The demographic information isn't necessary to include but it is good to have because you won't be rushed while looking it over online. That will give you the chance to do what you need. *success*

Next, we are going to go back to the beginning of the questionnaire, so I can ask a few questions about each page.

On the Introduction page, take some time now to review this page.
- What are your impressions of this page?
  - My first impresssion was that it was coming from an outside source. Now that I think of it, I had to sign into MyHealthyVet which means it couldn't be 3rd party. The doctor would probably review my responses the morning of the appointment. The second text box that asks about life updates allows you the chance to explore care options -try something you didn't know may help. All three of the boxes cover different aspects to help you get across what you need to - they'll be very helpful. 
- What are your thoughts about the information provided?
- Is there any other information we should include here?
  
On the This Visit page...
- What if you decide that you want to take some more time to think about questions for you provider? How could you save what you already entered, then come back and finish the form?
  
On the confirmation page, 
- What are your impressions of this page?
  - It looks good. 
- Which of the buttons on the page would you most likely be interested in viewing next? 
  - If I click on the button to go to my questionnaires, can I edit my responses? I think it may be good to be able to do that, but it may result in too many forms being sent to the doctors. I would use the questionnaire button to print my responses and bring them with me to the appointment. 
- When (if at all) would you view and print questions? When (if at all) would you print this PDF?
  
Remember when we talked about saving your in-progress questionnaire answers. Pretend that you are returning to the form the next day after saving your current work and you lost the notification (email or text), where on va.gov would you look first to find this questionnaire? (Pick one.)
- I would use the search.
- I would navigate to a list of my appointments and expect a questionnaire link to appear in the details of my appointment.
- I would log in and expect to see a link on my dashboard to the questionnaires that I need to complete.
- I would use the main menu on va.gov to navigate to a health questionnaire section. _(If the participant selects this, make them pick their second option.)_
  - It would be best if it were on the appointment page. It could just distinguish if it is complete or due. 
  
### Scenario 2 - 15 minutes
Now, you found the main health questionnaires section on va.gov...(ask while displaying the marketing/Drupal page)
- What are your impressions of this page?
  - There's a lot of good information. It has contact information, which is good.
- What are your thoughts about the information provided?
- How valuable is the information on this page to you?
  - When you are looking for this information, it will be very valuable. 
- Is there any other information that we should include on this page?
  - I can't think of anything that I'd want to add - not before seeing the questionnaire. 
  
Have the participant click to the Questionnaire list (To do tab)
- What are your impressions of this page?
  - Signing in to complete the questionnaire is important. It protects everyones information and keeps it secure. I like this page. It’s good that it has a number you can call for questions. It's nice that it has separate questionnaires for each appointment rather than one that you keep doing for every appointment. One says, "continue questions" and the other says, "answer questions." The word, "continue" makes me think that the questionnaire has already been started, but not finished. 
- Can you tell me what you think the difference is between the cards shown on the screen? Ask about button wording if the difference isn't clear. 
- What are your thoughts about the information provided?
- How valuable is the information on this page to you?
- Is there any other information that we should include on this page?
  - It may be good to also include the doctor's name. 
  
Your primary care provider just sent you a pre-visit questionnaire. Before you fill it out, you want to review your responses to your last primary care questionnaire. Find your last questionnaire and review your responses. Please narrate your thoughts as you complete the task.
- *success - took maybe 4-5 seconds start to end*
- It was very easy. 

Click on the “View and print questions” button, what are your impressions of this PDF?
- When (if at all) would you view this PDF? When (if at all) would you print this PDF?
  - I would print this to make sure I cover everything that I put on there. 
- Would you want any additional information added to this PDF?
  - The only thing I don't see is what we decided to do. Adding in the treatment and next steps would be helpful. I would still use the pdf if it didn't have that, but it would be more helpful if it did. 
  
_Have the participant go back to the Questionnaire list (completed tab)_
- What are your impressions of this page?
- Can you tell me what you think the difference is between the cards shown on the screen?
  - One of them hasn't been submitted - the primary care at the bottom. *did not notice that the date is in the past* It would be good to keep the card in there, even though I never did the questionnaire. I would want to go back and reference it, or figure out why I never submitted the questionnaire. 
- What are your thoughts about the information provided?
- How valuable is the information on this page to you?
- Is this location where you would expect to come back to and see this list of completed questionnaires?
- Is there any other information that we should include on this page?- Would you want to see questionnaire responses over time?
- Would you like to see your responses on questionnaires for appointments that were rescheduled or canceled? 
  - If an appointment was canceled I would still want to see my responses on the questionnaire to refernce what my issue was. If you could only hold my responses for a limited time, I would want to know so that I can get my records pulled before they are removed. But the time limit on holding my information is not an issue with me. 
- What if the questionnaire resulted in a score? Would you be interested in seeing your score over time?
  - It would be easier to look at all of my questionnaire responses in one view. If the questionnaire resulted in a score then I'm not sure if I'd want to see that over time. I've never be given a score. I would like to know the definition of the score - what it means to me. I would want to see that to track progress.
