# Participant 8
December 17, 2020 3 - 4 pm EST

## Warm-up Questions - 3 minutes
Think about your last primary care provider visit at the VA. 	
- Did your appointment experience differ at all from past experiences due to COVID? If so, how?	
- What was the experience prior to the appointment like? For example, did you have to fill out any forms before the appointment? Did the nurse ask you a lot of questions?
  - I've had to fill out forms when I check in. Then they collect themback when I finish checking-in. I've also had a nurse ask me questions before I saw the doctor. 
  
## Questionnaire Scenarios - 30 minutes

### Scenario 1 - 15 minutes
Don’t click on anything yet. Just read the notification. 
- What are your impressions of this notification? If not mentioned, what do you think about entering Y1 and N1?
  - I would probably delete this, I don't think I would even read this whole email. This looks like a survey email. If the title were changed to something else it may compel people to go through it. "Dr. [X] has requested that you complete this questionnaire." I go to the doctor a lot and I get a lot of survey emails that look like this. 
- Why do you believe that you would have been sent this notification?
- How many days in advance of your appointment would you want to receive this notification?
  - If the doctor wants my responses the day before my appointment then I would say give me a week to fill it out. 
- Would you be interested in receiving this notification multiple times? 
  - Yes, sending a second email 24-48 hours before the appointment may be helpful if I havn't completed it - just as a reminder. 
- What are the actions that you could take immediately based upon the (email or text) that you just received?
  
Now, please fill out the questionnaire that your provider has requested you complete. For this questionnaire, your name will be Hector Allen and you have an upcoming primary care appointment for your annual physical. Please narrate your thoughts as you complete the task.
- I would click "answer questions."

Next, we are going to go back to the beginning of the questionnaire, so I can ask a few questions about each page.

On the Introduction page, take some time now to review this page.
- What are your impressions of this page?
  -  I would like to click on a link or hover over something that can tell me what data is considered sensitive and how it is protected ("how will the VA protect your data). It would be good to have a link that can take you back to edit your personal information if it has changed. It would also be good to include the location/building and parking info for the visit. It would be good to include the hours here too. 
- What are your thoughts about the information provided?
- Is there any other information we should include here?
  
On the This Visit page...
- What if you decide that you want to take some more time to think about questions for you provider? How could you save what you already entered, then come back and finish the form?
  
On the confirmation page, 
- What are your impressions of this page?
  - I like the idea of being able to explain my situation while outside of the doctors office. People will be more comfortable and can probably give more/better information. The second question that asks for other concerns or changes is critical to have. These are the questions that should be asked because they can affect your care. The third question is good to have, but it could be good to include another section that asks for any other comments. I like ordering the questions by importance. 
- Which of the buttons on the page would you most likely be interested in viewing next? 
- When (if at all) would you view and print questions? When (if at all) would you print this PDF?
  
Remember when we talked about saving your in-progress questionnaire answers. Pretend that you are returning to the form the next day after saving your current work and you lost the notification (email or text), where on va.gov would you look first to find this questionnaire? (Pick one.)
- I would use the search.
- I would navigate to a list of my appointments and expect a questionnaire link to appear in the details of my appointment.
- I would log in and expect to see a link on my dashboard to the questionnaires that I need to complete.
- I would use the main menu on va.gov to navigate to a health questionnaire section. _(If the participant selects this, make them pick their second option.)_
  
### Scenario 2 - 15 minutes
Now, you found the main health questionnaires section on va.gov...(ask while displaying the marketing/Drupal page)
- What are your impressions of this page?
  - It looks fine. It looks well organized. If I could click through this and have it take me where I need to go then this would be valuable. Having to sign in makes me more comfortable.
- What are your thoughts about the information provided?
- How valuable is the information on this page to you?
- Is there any other information that we should include on this page?
  - Under "you must have one of these free accounts" it would be good to have some descriptions of what the options are. I do not know what ID.me is - if I do, I would need a refresher. Just something that I can hover over to tell me what they are.   It would be nice to be able to see my glasses prescription and order new ones from this page - I see they have an option for hearing aid batteries. 
  
Have the participant click to the Questionnaire list (To do tab)
- What are your impressions of this page?
  - It seems like I would fill out these questionnaires before the appointment. If I went in to my appointment and had to complete this questionnaire again, I would never come back and use this tool again. It would just add another step. 
- Can you tell me what you think the difference is between the cards shown on the screen? Ask about button wording if the difference isn't clear. 
  - One of these is for pirmary care and the other is cardiology. "Continue questions" sounds like you've already answered some questions but they still need you to answer some more. 
- What are your thoughts about the information provided?
- How valuable is the information on this page to you?
- Is there any other information that we should include on this page?
  - The "due date" seems a little fuzzy to me. Is that the appointment time or is that some time before the appointment when this is supposed to be done. I would like to know exactly when this needs to be done.   It would be good to include the hours of operation of the center. Some people have riding accomodations to make and that would help their planning. 
  
Your primary care provider just sent you a pre-visit questionnaire. Before you fill it out, you want to review your responses to your last primary care questionnaire. Find your last questionnaire and review your responses. Please narrate your thoughts as you complete the task.
- I would click, "completed" and then, "view and print questionnaires." *success* The, "view or print" button may make people nervous for those who can't print. It may help to separate the print option and only include it after they view it. In the top right there is a partial web link. I would not include a partial link - either the whole thing or nothing.  

Click on the “View and print questions” button, what are your impressions of this PDF?
- When (if at all) would you view this PDF? When (if at all) would you print this PDF?
  - I would try it the first time I had the option to. If it didn't work well or wasn't necessary then I would never do it again. It would have to cut down on my time at the doctors office. I probably wouldn't go back to see this unless I had some compelling reason to do so. 
- Would you want any additional information added to this PDF?
  
_Have the participant go back to the Questionnaire list (completed tab)_
- What are your impressions of this page?
- Can you tell me what you think the difference is between the cards shown on the screen?
- What are your thoughts about the information provided?
- How valuable is the information on this page to you?
- Is this location where you would expect to come back to and see this list of completed questionnaires?
- Is there any other information that we should include on this page?- Would you want to see questionnaire responses over time?
- Would you like to see your responses on questionnaires for appointments that were rescheduled or canceled? 
  - I would not want to see my responses to a questionnaire for an appointment that was rescheduled. It would be good if my responses transferred over to my reschedule, but other than that I wouldn’t need it.
- What if the questionnaire resulted in a score? Would you be interested in seeing your score over time?
  - I would not want to see all of them in one view, but it could be helpful to sort them so that I can go back and look at all that are related to a certain condition. If the questionnaire resulted in a score, I would want to see that over time. It would have to be a very simple graph that the average person could understand. It would also be cool if you could track a change in score as they are using various medications - to see how the medication is impacting the condition. 
  
  Other: This can be valuable. It's just like any tool, you can't use a hammer to wash the dishes but you can put a nail the wall. 
