# August 30, 2023: Housing assistance and home loans business line review
*Ask VA Integration Team*

## Agenda

- Introductions
- Review AVA form fields
- Review category and topic names

## Attendees

- Our team: Becky, Tyler, Ruchi
- Housing team: Laura Rodrigue
- VBA: Breon Johnson
- CRM team: Shelby, Chris, Jaime

## Key takeaways

- There was concern over changing the category name to `Housing Assistance`.
> "Tt sounds like a housing grant program where you have funds to provide the Veteran."

> "[The public] knows what Home Loan Guaranty sounds like."

- Adding "Home loan" for `Certificate of Eligibility (COE)` helps differentiated this topic from the Education COE.
> "We also have COE for education benefits."

- Laura expressed interest in updating `Help to avoid foreclosure` to include partial claims.
> "Another topic that's a big item with them now is partial claims. I'll ask the loan officer if they'd like to get this added."

- `Native American Direct Loan (NADL)` might not be selected as often, or at all.
> "I don't think we get any questions in the NADL question. I'll discuss this with the manager."

- `Specially Adapted Housing grant` also applies to Special Home Adaptation grants.

- We updated `Homes for sale by VA` after Laura explained what this topic is for.
> "The VA-covered properties are homes that have been foreclosed and are for sale. It's for people interested in buying these properties."

- `Title and tax issues` is missing some context that might make it confusing for submitters.
> "This is more for people who bought homes under these programs, but they have issues with title and taxes."

## Actions

- [ ] Laura to follow up with internal stakeholders on proposed names
- [ ] Ruchi to send follow-up email with proposed names and questions on form fields 

## References

- [Category, topic and subtopic proposed names spreadsheet](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1AlUqvwn49ah2gHniTwx3x0afOPliKgURo575e73OH40/edit#gid=1192783561) we reviewed in Google Sheets.
- [Form fields review (with business lines)](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1GIsq9Y6Ap9mBUL49j1Ad7tm1N_nfD0Yoxw9ThtexCMU/edit#gid=329502423) we reviewed in Google Sheets.
- [Complete meeting notes](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1y5nzZ1pDojdTjKEXu3d0eM_jxj72WrSRxaEsZOoiqkA/edit) in Google Docs.
