# August 29, 2023: Health Care business line review
*Ask VA Integration Team*

## Agenda

- Introductions
- Review AVA form fields
- Review category and topic names

## Attendees

- Our team: Becky, Chante, Tyler, Ruchi, Thomas
- Health care team:
  - VHA-PATSR (Medical Centers): Ron Hamner
  - VHA-ECM (Enrollment Case Management): Annie Rice, John L Tice, Morgan Fouliard
  - VHA-Audiology: Joshua Paulsen
- CRM team: Shelby, Maria, Jaime
- Not present:
  - VHA-ECM (Enrollment Case Management): April Mims, Lenn Jeffries
  - VHA-HAC (Health Administration Center): Michael Bingham
  - VHA-NRS, HROO (National Recruitment Services, Healthcare Retention and Recruitment Office): Orlando Austin 
  - VHA-Women Veterans Health Care: Benjamin Davis, Nicole Deleon
  - VHA-RCS (Readjustment Counseling Service): Todd Brunson, Gary Jarrell, Kristin Brown
  - VHA- Prosthetics: Mauree Collins, Trevor Brown
  
## Key takeaways

- `Tell us the reason you're contacting us?`: Teams present on the call generally don't use this.
> "I haven't noticed it before."

- `How should we get in touch with you?`: Most teams follow up via email. The medical centers are required to call regardless of the answer to this question though. No one contacts submitters US mail.
> "Everyone gets a phone call [from medical centers] unless there's a behavioral flag that there cannot be contact."

- `Veteran's Gender`: Most people had no comment about whether they use this field to answer an inquiry. Audiology said they don't use it.

- Military service fields: Most people said they could look up other fields for the most part, as long as they have specific fields.
> "If we have name, DOB, SSN, then we can find everything we need if it's in their record."
> 
> "Sometimes we might reach out to the eligibility department for the start or end date. Or we might follow up. It isn't completely necessary."

- We skipped some topics because the team wasn't present.
- Most topic changes were approved, and any updates were added to the spreadsheet.
- The ECM team noted that "Health care" needs to be included in the eligibility topic. It currently has "Health care" in the topic, and they still get inquiries on non-health care eligibility questions.
> "We need to keep this consistent because older Veterans for example might get confused by the end of the form."

## Actions

- [ ] Ruchi to follow up with HAC, NRS, Women Veterans Health Care, RCS and Prosthetics to get their feedback.

## References

- [Category, topic and subtopic proposed names spreadsheet](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1AlUqvwn49ah2gHniTwx3x0afOPliKgURo575e73OH40/edit#gid=1192783561) we reviewed in Google Sheets.
- [Form fields review (with business lines)](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1GIsq9Y6Ap9mBUL49j1Ad7tm1N_nfD0Yoxw9ThtexCMU/edit#gid=329502423) we reviewed in Google Sheets.
- [Complete meeting notes](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1y5nzZ1pDojdTjKEXu3d0eM_jxj72WrSRxaEsZOoiqkA/edit) in Google Docs.
