# Learn more - P2 

Monday November 18, 2019 4:00pm ET

**Moderator:**  Thanks for joining us today! My name is Emily and I have a colleague on the line observing and taking notes. Today we're going to talk about the current “learn more” experience. Sometimes when filling out a form online, websites need to show ppl extra information while people are filling out a form. We are going to go over a couple of different ways we learn more
This entire session should take about 1 hour. I want to be sure not to keep you much longer, so I may occasionally prompt you with the next question or topic.

**Participant:** Okay 

**Moderator:**  In this session, we want to hear your honest opinions. We are not testing your ability. We just want to improve these tools to better meet Veteran's needs. I will not be offended by any opinions you express, and I welcome your feedback.

**Participant:** Okay 

**Moderator:**  Also, any opinions and personal information that you share today will not be tied to your Veteran record. We want to design the VA.gov experience for you and everything that you share today will help us to do that.
If for any reason and at any time you want to stop the session, please let me know. You will not be penalized in any way if we need to stop.
Are you comfortable if I record your screen and audio as we talk today? We use the recordings to confirm that we have captured your opinions accurately.

**Participant:** Yes, that’s fine 

**Moderator:** Once I start recording, I’ll confirm on the recording and I’ll start in a couple of minutes. Actually I’ll start that now. Can you confirm you are comfortable with us recording screen and audio today?

**Participant:** Yes

**Moderator:** Cool!



## Checklist
**Moderator:** Are you using a computer or mobile phone during our session today?

**Participant:** Computer

**Moderator:**  Mac or Windows?

**Participant:** It’s windows

**Moderator:** What browser are you using?

**Participant:** Google chrome

**Moderator:**  Are you using a screen reader today?

**Participant:** Not usually but I increase the magnifier sometimes

**Moderator:**  Definitely use a magnifier like you usually would. 

**Participant:** Okay

## Share your screen

**Moderator:** I am going to send you a link, there’s a little chat window, I’m going to send you a link to click on with that chat window.I just sent it, the chat button is at the bottom of the window and flashing orange

**Participant:** I got it

**Moderator:**  Before we get started, I'd like you to share your screen with me. In Zoom, can you select the Share button? Alright I see it. Cool.


## Warm Up Questions - 5-10 minutes
**Moderator:**  Before we start walking through this screen. We have a couple of questions to ask so I can learn a little more about you. Can you tell me a little bit about yourself? 

**Participant:** Okay, I was in the navy joined 1985 got out of 1989. I live in Florida, was originally in Alabama, stationed in Charleston,sc. For fun anything comes up, we have festivals and try to participate as much as we can

**Moderator:** Has it gotten cold in Florida?

**Participant:** It was cold a little while ago, but now it’s about in the 60s

**Moderator:** Do you have to keep your water dripping so your water won’t freeze? I’m based in cleveland, we had snow last week, but it all melted. Florida sounds nice. 

Have you ever used VA services online? Like Va.gov, ebenefits, My HealtheVet?

**Participant:** I have

**Moderator:** Can you tell me about your experience?

**Participant:** I did have a VA claim for compensation, my daughter had DSE benefits because her father passed away, I use for VA medication and appointments I use these services

**Moderator:** Do u use va.gov? 

**Participant:** I do use My HealtheVet and occasionally va.gov and I have used benefits. So I have used all 3

**Moderator:** Today, we are going to be asking for your feedback about how to get more information about a question or topic when filling out a form online. Has there ever been a time when you needed some extra details about a question on an online form?

**Participant:** Yeah a lot of times when I have a question and I don't have an answer I google it.

**Moderator:** So your first step is a search engine like google?

**Participant:** yeah

  

## First Task: Test the modal pattern in staging - 10 minutes [only need to test 1 modal]
 
**Moderator:**  We have a form here for our GI Bill comparison tool. Have you used or seen it before?

**Participant:** No 

**Moderator:**  The purpose of this tool is to help Veterans compare costs at colleges and universities they are interested in, so they can estimate how to use their GI Bill benefits.
ok
 First, without making any selections, scan the page and describe what it’s asking you to do.

**Participant:** Um the question as far as what’s your military status? It says veteran
Which GI bill benefits do you u want to us, says learn more on that, now it says post 911 GI bill, cumulative post 9/11 bill says 36+ months, type of institution, how do you want to take classes, enter a city school or employer name. Those are the questions I see

 **Moderator:** If you fill out these form questions, let’s say you needed more information about one of the questions if you needed it? 

**Participant:** Probably click learn more 

**Moderator:** What do you expect to happen by doing that?

**Participant:** A detailed info on what it is what the requirements are. 
	
**Moderator:** Go ahead and select it.
	
**Participant:**  Modal pops up *reads modal out loud*

**Moderator:** Is this what you expected to find?

**Participant:** Um, yeah, I think so because it does kind of give a brief subscription, then it does have a link for detailed information so I think it’d probably be beneficial 

**Moderator:** Show me how you would use this information to fill out the question on the form.

**Participant:** I would probably go ahead and see the next page to find a little bit more about it. So the button says GI bill benefits. I think that's what I would do first and then go ahead and select whatever I felt I would need to use 

**Moderator:** You feel like you would gather enough information what you would want to use?

**Participant:**  I think so, I have a little bit of experience because my daughter did receive dependent education assistance so I’m familiar 
  *Closes modal*

**Moderator:** You can make any selection here 
	
**Participant:**  * Makes selection on form* (dependents education assistance)

**Moderator:** Next question is how do you want to take classes, what would you expect to happen if you wanted to learn more?

**Participant:** I don’t know it seems pretty self explanatory for me, I’ve taken online and in-person classes so I kinda know what to expect from that.

**Moderator:** Alright that makes sense. How well were you able to remember what it said in the pop up when you made the selection on the form page?

**Participant:** Um well I just briefly looked at it, so I don’t remember looking at it, but I’d probably go back and read again. If I have several places to look at, I’ll take notes myself.

**Moderator:** Where do you take notes?

**Participant:** Pen and paper


## Second Task: Test the accordion pattern in Codepen - 10 minutes

**Moderator:**  What we’re going to look at next is a prototype of two other ways to get more information while filling out an online form. 


### Learn more pattern in the question:
**Moderator:**   First, without making any selections, scan first question on the page and describe what it’s asking you to do. Before clicking anything, describe how you would go about getting more information about this question if you needed it? 

**Participant:** Well there's a link that says learn more so that’s what I would click on
       	
**Moderator:**  What do you expect to happen by doing that?

**Participant:** I would expect it to explain what’s required online or in person. I would expect to give more details for those topics

**Moderator:**  Go ahead and click on learn more 

**Participant:** *Clicks, accordion opens, and reads learn more out loud*

**Moderator:** How does that information impact what you would choose on that question?

**Participant:** I would probably didn’t want to affect that, I’d pick in-person only so that it wouldn’t impact the housing allowance payment 

**Moderator:** Is this what you expected to find?

**Participant:** Um, well not really, I wouldn't expect it to say your payment would be affected
By clicking on it, I learned there was more behind what I thought it would be 

**Moderator:** Why do you think this content is hidden behind this ‘Learn more’ link? 

**Participant:** Maybe they prefer people do something online, so they wouldn’t have to pay as much

**Moderator:** That makes sense. Ok cool let’s move on to the 2nd question
      
### Learn more pattern in an option for the answer:

**Moderator:** Next, I’m going to ask you to scan the 2nd question and without making any selections, describe how you would go about getting more information about one of the options to answer -- “private training like coding bootcamps”, if you needed it? 

**Participant:** I think I would do the same thing and learn more link but also there’s a learn more link with private training like coding bootcamps so I’ll probably click that one to learn more about what it is 

**Moderator:**  What do you expect to happen by doing that?

**Participant:** I would expect it to give me greater detail on what these items are

**Moderator:** Go ahead and select it.

**Participant:** *reads learn more*

**Moderator:** Does this impact how you would make that selection?

**Participant:** No, I’d probably want to learn more about different programs for different benefits 
Would probably have to google private training 

**Moderator:** Do you think going to google would be the next step to going about private training and bootcamps?

**Participant:** Yea that or go to va.gov to go search for something like that 

**Moderator:** Would you skip over this learn more link?

**Participant:** No I’d still click on it 

**Moderator:** Well go ahead and click on this one

**Participant:** *reads learn more in answer*

**Moderator:** How would that impact your selection?

**Participant:** That would give me more of an idea, but still not enough I would need more information than just that 

**Moderator:** How well were you able to remember what it said when the additional information appeared?

**Participant:** Just reading it one time, I wouldn’t remember it very well, but I'll probably go back and reread it 

**Moderator:** Why do you think this content is hidden behind this ‘Learn more’ link? 

**Participant:** That I don’t know, Maybe because people already have an idea of what they want to do. That’s the only thing I can think of. People could be more educated than I am on coding bootcamps. I don’t think it would be that big of a deal to them 
 
### Learn more pattern in a tooltip:

**Moderator:** Next, I’m going to ask you to scroll a little farther down the page until you get to a label that says “Tooltip 1” Please read the question underneath and without making any selections, describe what it’s asking. 

**Participant:** I would think that they would want to know the approximate date I want to start training.

**Moderator:** What do you expect to happen by clicking Learn More here

**Participant:** I would expect to learn more about the topic

**Moderator:** Go ahead and interact with it.

**Participant:** When I click on that, it doesn't do anything. I hover over it

**Moderator:** Did you expect it to happen? 

**Participant:** No, I expect to click on it, it’s only a hover 

**Moderator:** Why do you think this information is hidden?

**Participant:** I don’t know maybe it’s self explanatory I guess. Yeah that makes sense that’s totally valid.
 
**Moderator:** Next is tooltip 2, what would you expect to happen with this one?

**Participant:** I think it would have expected anticipated time I end my training   

**Moderator:** Go ahead and select it.

**Participant:**  I know to hover over the tooltip	
*Tooltip appears*

This one i clicked on, the pop up showed. Whereas the one just above, I got to hover over it. 

**Moderator:** Is that more of what you expected to happen on the second one?

**Participant:** Yes

**Moderator:** Why do you think that’s the first one should of done?

**Participant:** A lot of people may not know to hover over it, sometimes it may not know. Clicking on it may not pop back up, I think to me, whoever did the program, so...you know. My husband wouldn’t know you could just hover it 

**Moderator:** That’s exactly why we have these different options. How well were you able to remember what it said when the additional information appeared?

**Participant:** I definitely could remember that

**Moderator:** Why do you think it’s easier to remember?

**Participant:** Self explanatory to me, asks why I’m anticipating starting date and why my anticipated  end date	

**Moderator:** Okay that wraps up the items we wanted to get your feedback on today. Do you have any questions or additional thoughts about the things we evaluated?

**Participant:** No, you guys are actually working on a page/topic. That’s cool. 

**Moderator:** We are exploring pop-up, accordion, a tooltip, we’re trying to figure out what's the best way to show information?

**Participant:** The first question here (referring to the accordion pattern), I’m reading through again how do you want to take classes? To me you might want an additional link to explain what that means. 

**Moderator:** Maybe we can have a more informative link, vs saying learn more? It might be important to see housing allowance could be impacted learn more

**Participant:** You could say something like that. I wouldn’t have thought twice about online or in person but with that info we could think more about it. Providing a link out could be good too.
 
## Thank-You - 5 minutes

**Moderator:** Well we really appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us today. Your feedback is so helpful to us as we continue to work on the site and make sure it really works for Veterans.

As a thank you for your participation, we'd like to offer you a $50 thank-you gift. Perigean mail that gift to you

Great, well thank you so much again, and enjoy the rest of your day!
