# P5 - Learn more

Wednesday, November 20, 4:00 pm ET


## Intro - 5 minutes

**Moderator:** Thanks for joining us today! My name is Emily and I will be running our feedback today.  also have a colleague on the line observing and taking notes. Today we're going to talk about the current “learn more” experience. Sometimes when filling out the form online, people need to get a little more information on filling out the form and we’re thinking of the most effective way to display that to them. We have a couple different ways to get your feedback on. 

Before we start, a few things I want to mention:

This entire session should take about 1 hour. I want to be sure not to keep you much longer, so I may occasionally prompt you with the next question or topic.

In this session, we want to hear your honest opinions. We are not testing your ability. We just want to improve these tools to better meet Veteran's needs. I will not be offended by any opinions you express, and I welcome your feedback.

If for any reason and at any time you want to stop the session, please let me know. You will not be penalized in any way if we need to stop.

**Participant:** Sounds good

**Moderator:** Are you comfortable if I record your screen and audio as we talk today? We use the recordings to confirm that we have captured your opinions accurately.

**Participant:** Yes, I'm having a problem with JAWs (screenreader) today and it keeps telling me that you’re talking and I'm talking

*start recording*

**Moderator:** Confirm now that we’re recording, if you're okay with me recording

**Participant:** Yes I'm okay with you recording

## Checklist
**Moderator:** Are you using a computer or mobile phone during our session today?

**Participant:** Dell windows 7.

**Moderator:** What browser are you using today?

**Participant:** Typically not google chrome, but usually AVG. recommended by blind research center

**Moderator:** You mentioned using JAWS, as a screenreader how many years have been using that?

**Participant:** About 10. Right now I'm doing a trial for 2020, because I've been using the same one for 3 years

**Moderator:** Verbosity?

**Participant:** 70s? Haven’t changed it for years


## Share your screen

**Moderator:** Now, please click the first link we sent you in the checklist labeled “GI Bill comparison tool”. 

**Participant:** Im not seeing actual links 

**Moderator:** I can try sending via zoom

**Participant:** There it is links to be tested

**Moderator:** Before we get started, I'd like you to share your screen with me. In Zoom, can you select the Share button?

**Participant:** *shares screen* Is that working?

**Moderator:** Yes, it’s working 


## Warm Up Questions - 5-10 minutes
**Moderator:** Can you tell me a little bit about yourself? Like about service experience, where you live, your work?

**Participant:** Don’t currently work. I was in the navy, and i’m currently down in Texas. 

**Moderator:** Have you ever used VA services online?

**Participant:** Yes, mostly through my phone, somewhat through the computer but it’s a little more cumbersome sometimes

**Moderator:** Is it better navigating on the phone?

**Participant:** Less options on the phone, less graphics…I don’t know

**Moderator:** What do you do on your phone?

**Participant:** Mostly secure messaging to my care team

**Moderator:** Through my Myhealthevet? What is that experience like?

**Participant:** I would prefer to be a little more straightforward but it’s not horrible

**Moderator:** That’s totally fair. Today, we are going to be asking for your feedback about how to get more information about a question or topic when filling out a form online. Has there ever been a time when you needed some extra details about a question on an online form?

**Participant:** Yeah, I'll just call in if I have a problem on the online form and I ask, but usually it’s a labeling thing or it’s not labeled. Graphics don’t work. Theres ADA line you can email and they do corrections on government websites. Usually the person can look up their screen as well and we can figure out what I'm missing

  

## First Task: Test the modal pattern in staging - 10 minutes [only need to test 1 modal]
**Moderator:** We have a form here for our GI Bill comparison tool. This tool is to help Veterans compare costs at colleges and universities they are interested in, so they can estimate how to use their GI Bill benefits.
 First, without making any selections, scan the page and describe what it’s asking you to do.

**Participant:** *screenreader scans through page*
Looks like I'm at the end of that. Looks like it’s giving me new options for the new GI bill vs the old GI bill. I did use this without a screenreader to engage with blind vets using enlarging software previously. There’s a lot of left pair and right pair, a lot of stuff that’s great visually. Honestly my screenreader is reading a lot of punctuation. I can decrease it but i somewhat like punctuation. I don’t know, sound informational if I type in a bunch of stuff

**Moderator:** Scan page to getting more information about one of the questions if you needed it? 

**Participant:** I’m going to go through links, that’s my feedback. I guess I would go download data and then I would back up to find the forms and see I was on the wrong link, let’s see..oops not what I wanna do. 

I can’t remember what the form was that I wanted. Then I’d scroll through here. Rolls over learn more…*screenreader reads*
I think most of GI bill is almost done

That’s how I would personally navigate, how familiar they are with the screen originally. Some of my friends won’t read the website and just fill out the form

**Moderator:** Okay, on a couple of these form fields, like the ask what GI bill benefits do you want to use, it may be labeled as a button and not a link so that’s why it didn’t show up in the list of links to show up? 

**Participant:** Could be invisible to a screen reader that can’t find a button. I like the links because I know where I'm gonna go next to hit submit. Most people would start headings or the form

**Moderator:**  Sure and that is great. Would you mind navigating to one of those learn more buttons and describing what you’re expectation might be what would happen if you interacted with it?

**Participant:** I would tab between my options, clicks learn more *disappears*

**Moderator:** Tell me more about what happened just then

**Participant:** When I tried to switch up the other button, I struggled. Could be because of my keys are up. Once you’re in the selection, you should not be able to switch between. You should use arrow keys to navigate each time without a separate keystroke. I should be able to just hit shift A and aid moved down for my buttons. Um, so that’s a little irritating

**Moderator:** It’s not behaving the way you expect to?

**Participant:** Again this is a newer version for me? So no it’s not behaving not exactly it should expect. When I expect to shift A, that it puts me between 2 radio buttons

**Moderator:** How would you go about going to the previous question?

**Participant:** You’re talking just go back to… *goes to front of the form*

**Moderator:** What steps would you take to resolve that issue

**Participant:** Start from the top and tab through. Typically easiest to find out where you be and start over. If you glitch on something, it gets frustrating so I’d just up top

I would just go down through then doing that the arrows work just fine. Now this one it isn’t. The second box with the buttons (in person and online) is not using the arrow key but the one above did. 

**Moderator:** Okay, so there was a link in the question learn more on how we calculate housing assistance based on where you take classes. Could you navigate to that button and see what takes next?
That button where it says learn more on how we calculate housing assistance, if you could click on that button?

**Participant:** Button or link?

**Moderator:** Maybe it’s a link? 

**Participant:** You said it was housing?

*everything closed*

That one. So that’s a link. It’s a link that doesn’t talk…No it’s not. I’m expecting to be talking right now, my computer is having issues but that’s the issue with these softwares

**Moderator:** From your perspective, what happened to that link? 

**Participant:** My experience that either there’s a glitch with the link, or that software, or my computer froze. I would back out and try again. If I had my other software on here

**Moderator:** Do you mind trying back out and try again route

**Participant:** This desktop is killing me. 

**Moderator:** Maybe chrome crashed?

**Participant:** Ugh

**Moderator:** Maybe JAWS crashed?

**Participant:** Maybe because i can’t hear anything either 

*computer crashed*
