# P7 - Additional Info / Tooltip / Modal Usability study

## Intro - 5 minutes

Thanks for joining us today! My name is Crystabel and I also have some colleagues on the line observing and taking notes. Today we're going to talk about the current “learn more” experience. There’s an existing way we show website users how to learn more about a specific question and we’re testing what’s the most effective for someone to learn more if they’re confused about a question. 

Before we start, a few things I want to mention:

- **Moderator:** This entire session should take about 1 hour. I want to be sure not to keep you much longer, so I may occasionally prompt you with the next question or topic.

- **Moderator:** In this session, we want to hear your honest opinions. We are not testing your ability. We just want to improve these tools to better meet Veteran's needs. I will not be offended by any opinions you express, and I welcome your feedback. Also, any opinions and personal information that you share today will not be tied to your Veteran record. We want to design the VA.gov experience for you and everything that you share today will help us to do that.
- **Moderator:** If for any reason and at any time you want to stop the session, please let me know.** You will not be penalized in any way if we need to stop.
- **Moderator:** Are you comfortable if I record your screen and audio as we talk today?** We use the recordings to confirm that we have captured your opinions accurately.
  -**Veteran:** Yes, sure.
  
*Starts recording*

## Checklist
- **Moderator:** Are you using a computer or mobile phone during our session today? 
  - Using both. Using phone for just audio.
- **Moderator:** What browser are you using today?
  - Using Google chrome.
- **Moderator:** Are you using a screenreader today?
  - Today, no.
- **Moderator:** Do you usually use one? 
  - Yes. 
- **Moderator:** If you're more comfortable using a screenreader, please feel free.
- **Moderator:** What screen reader are you using today?
  - I use it just to read all the commands and text on the screen.
- **Moderator:** For how many years have you used this screenreader?
  - I haven't been using it consistently - maybe a year or two.
- **Moderator:** Do you regularly use your screenreader to navigate the internet?
  - Not always, no. Usually if it's an article or anything long, I do.
- **Moderator:** Are you using a screen magnifier today?
    - Yes.
- **Moderator:** Do you know your screen reader's verbosity setting? High, medium, low? 
   - I don't.

## Share your screen

- **Moderator:** Okay. I'd like you to open a new browser window or tab.
- **Moderator:** I will send over a link I'd like you to navigate to. Do you see the link I just sent? Do you mind opening that on your computer?
    - Sure.
- **Moderator:** Have you used Zoom before?
    - I'm not sure, I may have used it in previous studies.
- **Moderator:** Totally okay, if you could press the share button, I'd like you to share your screen with me. 
- **Moderator:** Great, I see it perfectly.

*Start recording.*

## Warm Up Questions - 5-10 minutes

**Moderator:** Can you tell me a little bit about yourself? (If stuck, prompt to ask about service experience, where they live, their work)

**Veteran:** I'm a recent Veteran, got out in 2011 from the Army reserves. I was the supply specialist. I reside in NYC and work as a freelance artist.

**Moderator:** What kind of art do you do?

**Veteran:** Abstract.

**Moderator:** What is your favorite medium?

**Veteran:** Acrylic.

**Moderator:**  Have you ever used VA services online? (Va.gov, ebenefits, My HealtheVet, Tricare?)

**Veteran:** Yes.

**Moderator:**  Can you tell me a little about your experience?

**Veteran:** I've mainly used Vets.gov for checking my claims status and checking like test results from any of my VA visits and also billing.

**Moderator:** Today, we are going to be asking for your feedback about how to get more information about a question or topic when filling out a form online. Has there ever been a time when you needed some extra details about a question on an online form?

**Veteran:** Uh.. yes, I think there has been.

**Moderator:** Yes I'm sure there are a lot of forms to fill out.
  

## First Task: Test the modal pattern in staging - 10 minutes [only need to test 1 modal]
* First, please click the link for task 1 (https://staging.va.gov/gi-bill-comparison-tool/).
   * We have a form here for our GI Bill comparison tool. 
* The purpose of this tool is to help Veterans compare costs at colleges and universities they are interested in, so they can estimate how to use their GI Bill benefits.
     * First, without making any selections, scan the page and describe what it’s asking you to do.
         - Sure. It looks like its' asking you to input your military status, what type of GI benefit you want to use, and also your cumulative time in service. Then asking what type of classes or institutions you're interested in.
       * Before clicking anything, describe how would you go about getting more information about one of the questions if you needed it? 
        - Um... I would take a screenshot and go over to contact us and the ask a question link (scrolling to footer)
      Does that bring up a chat or similar to that?
        - Yes.
      If you were to try and figure it out without asking anyone,d o you think you'd be able to clicka nywhere on the screen?
      - Yes.
      Where exactly?
      - The learn more.
      You can go ahead and select one.
      [Clicks learn more, modal pops up]
      [Clicks the link in the pop up]
* Is this what you expected to find?
  Yes.
* Could you go back to the previous page? [with the modal]
* Show me how you would use this information to fill out the question on the form.
  - Sure. [Navigates back to form and makes selection]

* How well were you able to remember what it said in the pop up when you made the selection on the form page?
  - Not that much, to be honest.
  - I briefly scanned it.

* Why do you think those “learn more” links are there?
* Why do you think this content is hidden behind this ‘Learn more’ link? 
  - Um... Maybe so that you don't have to open an additional window or tab to get the information.
  
* Okay let's scroll down a bit... Would you click on that learn more on the last question?
[Clicks]
* Could you read this and select the answer that relates most to you?
[Reads, selects]
* How do you feel about that additional information?
	* How did it affect your understanding of the question?
  - Yeah, it gave a little more details in terms of what is available depending on if you take online or in-person only.

## Second Task: Test the accordion pattern in Codepen - 10 minutes
* Back in the email that Shannon sent, please click on the second link: https://codepen.io/tpierce_402/full/PoYVKKa
  * What we’re going to look at next is a prototype of two other ways to get more information while filling out an online form. 
  * For sighted users: This page doesn’t look like the rest of VA.gov yet, and we are trying things out just to make sure they work correctly. We ask that you put any biases about the visuals away and pay close attention to the way the learn more button behaves. 

### Learn more pattern in the question:
  * First, without making any selections, scan first question on the page and describe what it’s asking you to do.
  - Sure. [Clicks learn more] It looks like it's asking how do you want to take all your classes.
  * Did you click that learn more link to learn more about the question?
  - Yes.
  * The way that the Learn More interacted, is that what you expected to happen by doing that?
  - Yeah.
* Show me how you would use this information to fill out the question on the form.
- I would read through it and make the selection based on how I'm planning on taking the courses.

* How well were you able to remember what it said when the additional information appeared?
- Pretty well because it seems to remain on the screen unless you cover it.
* How do you compare this to the learn more than the previous pop up?
- I like this one better?
* Why?
- Because I can reference back to it without having to open another tab or going back to it separately.
* How do you feel about that additional information?
	* How did it affect your understanding of the question?
* Why do you think this content is hidden behind this ‘Learn more’ link? 

      
### Learn more pattern in an option for the answer:
Next, I’m going to ask you to scan the 2nd question and without making any selections, describe what it’s asking.
- It looks like it's asking what type of school you are interested in in terms of levels - private training, under grad or graduate.

* Before clicking anything, describe how would you go about getting more information about one of the options to answer -- “private training like coding bootcamps”, if you needed it? 
- Hit the little black arrow where it says "learn more"
* Why?
	* What do you expect to happen by doing that?

       * If they mentioned one of the Learn More links:
      	 * Go ahead and select it.
      * If no mention of “Learn more” link: Is there anywhere on this page you would go to get more information about one of the questions?
[If a more direct prompt needed: What do you think would happen if you clicked the Learn more links?]
 * Go ahead and select it.
	* Accordion opens
* Is this what you expected to find?
- Yes.
* Show me how you would use this information to fill out the question on the form.
- I would just kind of highlight and look over what private training and bootcamps mean and then making the selection based on if that is something I would want to engage in. [Highlights some of the text]
	
* Why do you think this content is hidden behind this ‘Learn more’ link? 
- Maybe to save space and not confuse with the other learn more that's on the top.
 
### Learn more pattern in a tooltip:
Next, I’m going to ask you to scroll a little farther down the page until you get to a label that says “Javascript tooltip.” Please read the question underneath and without making any selections, describe what it’s asking. 

- It's asking you to enter a date when you plan to start school.
* You've already hovered over the learn more selection here, did you learn that you could get more info from the previous ones?
- Yes.
* Before clicking anything, describe how would you go about getting more information about this question, if you needed it? 
* Why?
	* What do you expect to happen by doing that?
       * If they mentioned one of the Learn More links:
      	 * Go ahead and select it.
      * If no mention of “Learn more” link: Is there anywhere on this page you would go to get more information about one of the questions?
[If a more direct prompt needed: What do you think would happen if you clicked the Learn more links?]
 * Go ahead and select it.
	* Tooltip appears
* Is this what you expected to find?
- I wasn't sure - I thought maybe it might open into a separate box of it's own that I would maybe have to go back and hit the back button, but I wasn't sure.
* Show me how you would use this information to fill out the question on the form.
	* Reads content in tooltip
	* Types selection into form
* How well were you able to remember what it said when the additional information appeared?
- Pretty well because it stayed in place and didn't block any other selections.
* How do you feel about that additional information?
	* How did it affect your understanding of the question?
	* How did it affect the answer you typed?
	
* Why do you think this content is hidden behind this ‘Learn more’ link? 
  - Like I said before - to save space, or make it so that you're able to stay on the same page but get additional information.
  
* Compared to the first two ways - the pop up and the accordion, and this way of learning more, which way did you find most effective in your opinion?

Yes, the one that has the little black arrow underneath it where it appears below it.

* Why is that?

Because the information stays put and I would be able to compare it with some other information on the page.

* Okay that wraps up the items we wanted to get your feedback on today. Do you have any questions or additional thoughts about the things we evaluated?

No.

## Thank-You - 5 minutes

Well we really appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us today. Your feedback is so helpful to us as we continue to work on the site and make sure it really works for Veterans.

As a thank you for your participation, we'd like to offer you a $50 thank-you gift. Perigean mail that gift to you.

[If no] Ok, we'll follow up with an email after this session to get the right email from you in writing.

Thanks! Lastly, would you like to share this feedback opportunity with other Veterans or Veteran groups you're a part of? If so, I can send you an email with a little blurb so you can easily connect folks to our team.

- I did have a question for you. I noticed you have a QR code if you want participants to share with other Veterans. I have a blog to write for other Veterans and I want to post a writeup of this and share the QR code so that other Veterans can participate.

We will double check and get back to you.

Great, well thank you so much again, and enjoy the rest of your day!
