DHP Veteran CGM Discovery Research Findings
===========================================

Digital Health Platform

Date: 03/03/2022

Todd Stanich, todd.stanich@thoughtworks.com

Research Goals
--------------

-   Understand how Veterans use continuous glucose monitors.

-   Understand if and how Veterans share their CGM data with their care team. 

-   Understand how comfortable Veterans are sharing continuous glucose monitor data and for what purposes.

Methodology
-----------

Remote moderated interviews

Participants
------------

Six Veterans

-   Two female

-   Four male

-   Four CGM users (Dexcom and Abbott)

-   Two finger stick glucose meter users

Hypotheses and Conclusions
--------------------------

### Veterans are already sharing their CGM data with clinicians through the device manufacturer's cloud services. 

Mostly true - Some participants use the device manufacturer's cloud services to share data. Others used non-cloud methods to share data such as bringing their device to their clinician's office. All participants used some channel provided by the manufacturer to share their blood glucose data.

### Veterans are willing to share their CGM data with VA for their own care. 

True - All participants were willing to share their blood glucose data with VA for their own care.

### Veterans expect improved care in return for sharing their data.

Mostly true - Participants expected their care teams to be better informed about their situation by sharing data directly with VA. In addition, they mentioned the convenience of having less steps to share their data with their care teams. 

Summary
-------

Participants reported a positive experience using CGMs. All participants were willing to share their data with VA for their own care and for research purposes. In contrast to activity tracker data, data generated by CGMs is consistently being shared with care teams through channels provided by the device manufacturers. Additional health data such as insulin pump data, food logs, blood pressure, and activity data is often collected alongside CGM data, but not always shared. If it is shared with care teams, it is through a separate channel than CGM data. Participants without a CGM expressed a strong interest in having access to one.

Key themes highlighted below:

1.  All participants were willing to have their blood glucose readings automatically sent to VA. Participants expected it would be more convenient and improve their care by keeping their doctor informed.

2.  Participants consistently shared their blood glucose data with care teams. Methods of sharing vary following existing channels provided by device manufacturers.

3.  Some participants collect other data alongside their blood glucose.

4.  Participants with CGMs feel empowered by the increased amount of data and feedback they receive from those devices compared to finger stick blood glucose meters. 

5.  Participants with traditional finger stick blood glucose meters expressed a desire for CGMs because of the convenience and improved data to make decisions.

Key Findings
------------

### All participants were willing to have their blood glucose readings automatically sent to VA. Participants expected it would be more convenient and improve their care by keeping their doctor informed.

Participants had little hesitation sharing their blood glucose readings on an automatic and ongoing basis with VA. Their expectation was for increased convenience and improved information for their care team to understand their situation. All participants were also willing to have their data used anonymously for research purposes by VA. Participants did not want their data used to deny services or replace their regular appointments. 

>"I wouldn't have a problem with it [sharing data with VA]. In the past I had to print out reports. That would make it one step easier"

>"It would help them [care team] be more in touch with what's going on with my blood sugars. It would allow them to review it ahead of time and be ready to talk about it. Not as much time spent trying to access the information during my appointment"

>"I wouldn't have a problem with it. It would make it easier for me"

>"Before I had a CGM, I had to go in person to download my data."

>"I'm expecting them to integrate the CGM data into their overall plan for treatment. My pharmacist reviews my entire medicine regime to make sure there aren't any interactions. I get steroid treatments and when that happens, I have to pay extra attention since that can drive my blood sugar up. My CGM helps monitor that." 

### Participants consistently shared their blood glucose data with care teams. Methods of sharing vary following existing channels provided by device manufacturers.

All participants were sharing the blood glucose data regularly with their care teams. The methods of sharing varied, but were consistent with channels made available from the device manufacturers such as using the cloud sharing capabilities or physically bringing their devices to their providers to download the data. 

>"I give them a sharing code, or they can give me one in reverse to view my data in the provider portal"

>"I would prefer [my glucose readings] be automatically shared with VA."

>"I download reports from Libreview and share the reports with my provider."

### Some participants collect other data alongside their blood glucose.

Some participants record additional health data such as food logs, blood pressure, insulin pump, CPAP, and activity data. Data from these additional sources are sometimes shared with their care teams. When the data is shared, each device or app follows a different process to share with their provider. 

>"I have Tandem insulin pump data, carbohydrate intake using an app I like [carb manager], heart rate [Samsung watch]"

>"I have a CPAP that also shares data automatically"

>"I have a Samsung watch, but I don't share that data with anyone. No one has ever asked, but I would be ok sharing it."

### Participants with CGMs feel empowered by the increased amount of data and feedback they receive from those devices compared to finger stick blood glucose meters. 

Participants with CGMs spoke very positively about their experience with the devices. Use of CGMs was considered more convenient than finger stick blood glucose meters and provided participants with more data to empower them. The increased information allowed participants to better identify the impact of certain foods or activities on their blood glucose levels.

>"I absolutely love it [Dexcom G6], it gives me so much more information than finger sticks did. I can pinpoint certain foods or combinations of foods that spike my blood sugar."

>"It has been mostly favorable using it [freestyle libre]. I've been having issues overnight and it is much more convenient than waking up during the night to take blood glucose readings."

### Participants with traditional finger stick blood glucose meters expressed a desire for CGMs because of the convenience and improved data to make decisions. 

Participants without a CGM spoke very passionately about their desire to have a CGM. Citing convenience and improved access to data, participants felt if they had a CGM, they would have the information to make better decisions and improve management of their diabetes. 

>"I asked my coach about [a CGM]. He explained the rationale for that device and I'm not sticking myself enough etc. It would make a 200% difference in managing my diabetes. It would help me make intelligent decisions. I'm almost considering going out and buying it myself outside of the VA. It is what I need."

>"You get busy and you forget to take readings. Not having to remember it multiple times per day would be much more convenient."

Recommendations
---------------

### Consider pilot use cases beyond sharing and displaying CGM data to care teams.

In contrast to our Fitbit research, sharing CGM data is not a significant pain point for Veterans. Veterans are already using channels provided by CGM manufacturers to share data with their care teams. **How might we add value to CGM data beyond what the device manufacturers are providing?**

### Consider how other PGD collected by Veterans could enrich CGM data and generate insights 

Several participants collected and/or shared additional health data beyond CGMs. This data was generally shared through different channels and not necessarily shared or viewed together with CGM data. **How might viewing multiple sources of PGD together generate meaningful insights to improve Veteran care?**

### Consider how CGM data could increase access to CGMs for those who are not eligible for the device.

While a small sample size, our participants without a CGM expressed a strong desire to have access to a CGM. Several of the participants with a CGM did not receive it through the VA. **How might CGM data help advocate for increased access to these devices for Veterans?**
