# 5 Things Veteran Facing Tools Designers & Researchers Wish You Knew About User Research
*(A summary of a June 2018 Vets.gov designers retro)*

1. **The earlier, the better:** Armed with information about your users from the very start, you can make better product decisions, and arrive at a better solution faster. Conversely, if we do NOT do the research upfront, we will pay for it later, and ultimately make things worse for Veterans as a result. The design thinking process starts with empathy building for a reason! 
  - *What you as (Leadership, Team Lead, Product Manager, Engineer, Content Strategist, QA Analyst, etc.) should do to make this possible*: If you're starting a new thing, allow time for discovery research. Even if the solution seems pretty obvious, there's still a lot that we can learn that will help us make smarter product decisions that will save time and money later. 

2. **Research is not a launch blocker.** Research timelines vary. Research can be done in a day sometimes, or sometimes it takes more than a week. This shouldn't be seen as a blocker, or in opposition to launching features!
  - *What you as (Leadership, Team Lead, Product Manager, Engineer, Content Strategist, QA Analyst, etc.) should do to make this possible*: Work with your designer, UX lead, research lead, etc. to set timelines for sprints and PIs. Designers can advise on an appropriate methodology that will both work for the product and for your timeline. Again, get involved. Take notes during a session. Be helpful. 
  
 3. **Usability testing isn't the only way to get insights.** There are a lot of user research methods. Sometimes, the thing you're testing isn't whether a user can navigate your product. Sometimes, you need to hear a user's story to understand their painpoints and to identify opportunities for intervention. Sometimes, you need to test content comprehension or organization. Usability testing may not tell you what you need to learn. Let what you need to learn guide how you test. 
   - *What you as (Leadership, Team Lead, Product Manager, Engineer, Content Strategist, QA Analyst, etc.) should do to make this possible*: Your team's designer decides what kind of research needs to happen. Work with your designer, the UX Lead, and/or the Research Lead to make sure that the method selected will give you the answers you need to proceed. Make sure that you're supporting that research by helping to ensure that the thing that needs to be tested (e.g. staging site, etc.) is ready to go. 
   
4. **Research is not a one-and-done thing.** Research early and often. There are lots of opportunities along a product lifecycle to conduct research that will be meaningful and will move the product forward toward something that is useful. Carve out opportunities for research throughout the process. 
   - *What you as (Leadership, Team Lead, Product Manager, Engineer, Content Strategist, QA Analyst, etc.) should do to make this possible*: Shift your mindset. Research is not a thing on a checklist that needs to be done, for the sake of doing it, or JUST because that's the way we do things. It should be a meaningful part of your agile product development process. Allow time for iteration. It's okay to build something and scrap it. Get your product in front of users as often as you can. Test a few small product decisions at a time and keep on building!
   
5. **Research isn't just a means to validate product and design assumptions.** Research helps us ensure that we understand the user and their needs and goals. It helps us build products that are useful to the user and advance their goals. Findings should be informative and meaningful, not just validating.
   - *What you as (Leadership, Team Lead, Product Manager, Engineer, Content Strategist, QA Analyst, etc.) should do to make this possible*: Remind yourself every day who you are trying to help: Veterans, Servicemembers, and their families and caregivers. Carve time out in the process to learn about your users. While we know a lot about them, we don't know everything, and there's always space to learn more. 
