# Sprint Zero to Hero

Starts 5 min after the hour

The Sprint 0 meeting is a time to do the following:



* Team members present work to define future initiatives
* Review product briefs that we can pull from in a future quarter
* Allow time with POs to ask questions or seek feedback on Sprint 0s in progress

[View Sprint 0 template](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/blob/master/products/va-mobile-app/features/sprint-0/product-brief-template.md)


## Future Sprint 0s (not yet ready)
* Sprint 0 - discovery research: what benefits am I eligible for? - (Liz)
* App store review strategy (Matt)
* Program level analytics - (Greta)
* App store marketing strategy 
* 10-10EZR 
* Cerner Impacts
* Web and App UI differences
* List filtering and sorting
* Onboarding
* [Revamp Letters](https://app.zenhub.com/workspaces/va-mobile-product-view-610035bc5395bb000e62e529/issues/gh/department-of-veterans-affairs/va-mobile-app/4076)
* VHIC
    * Has edipi on it
    * Has photo
    * H623A - eligibility letter for getting on base, doesn’t have a photo so we should look at this for VHIC/VIC
* [External Links - Minimize and Refine](https://app.zenhub.com/workspaces/va-mobile-product-view-610035bc5395bb000e62e529/issues/gh/department-of-veterans-affairs/va-mobile-app/4077)
* Personalized Notifications
    * Showing changes of statuses, etc.
* [Getting Out/Transitioning User State](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1ECCgJNJ1edh8wjJ-sD9y2G86ds_Vd6i_a1bYlRJKLoA/edit) (Holly)
* [App health/confidence dashboard using detox automation artifacts](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/blob/master/products/va-mobile-app/features/app-health-confidence-dashboard/Sprint0.md) (Tom)

## Ready to Present

* [After visit summary for appointments](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/blob/master/products/va-mobile-app/features/appointments/Project%20-%20After%20Visit%20Summary/Sprint0.md) (TBD)
* [Screenshot Restriction](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/blob/master/products/va-mobile-app/features/Screenshot%20Restriction/Sprint%200.md) (Adam)
    * prevent users from taking screenshots of sensitive info (personal info, banking info, health data)
    * what are industry standards?
    * where would we want to implement it in our app
    * alternatives to screenshots - Print, generate PDF
    * can it be turned off in OS settings?


| Immediate Action | Next Quarter Bucket | Icebox |
| ----------- | ----------- | ----------- |
| Spike of QA Analytics<br> |  [Sprint 0: Reddit Scraper - Jason C & Liz](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/blob/master/products/va-mobile-app/features/reddit-scraper/sprint-0.md) <br><br> [Demo Mode Access](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/blob/master/products/va-mobile-app/features/Demo%20Mode%20Access/demoModeAccess.md) <br><br> [QA for analytics](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/blob/master/products/va-mobile-app/features/QA%20for%20analytics/Sprint%200%3A%20QA%20for%20analytics.md) <br><br> [OS version support updates](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/blob/master/products/va-mobile-app/features/Version_Support/Version_Support.md) (Therese) | [Sprint 0: Content management system (CMS)](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/blob/master/products/va-mobile-app/features/CMS/CMS%20sprint%200.md) (Misty)<br><br> [Sprint 0: Pre-Needs Burial Claim - Adam](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/blob/master/products/va-mobile-app/features/PreNeed%20Burial%20Claim/PreNeedBurialClaim.md) |




## Working session notes

## 12/14/23
* [In-app review updates](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/blob/master/products/va-mobile-app/features/In-App%20Review%20Updates/InAppReviewUpdates.md) (Therese)
   * POs would like this to be considered for Q1 2024
   * Project expected to be part of the Global teams initiatives for consideration\
   * Epic created [7169](https://app.zenhub.com/workspaces/va-mobile-60f1a34998bc75000f2a489f/issues/gh/department-of-veterans-affairs/va-mobile-app/7169)
* Had a quick discussion on Screenshot Prevention
   * POs asked when we talk about this to have another topic to discuss ask it will likely not take the whole time based on our initial discussions
* Mentioned to POs that the Sprint 0 meeting / process likely to change with the new team structure
* When discussing After Visit Summary, Rachel would like a heads up as she plans to invite others to attend 

## 11/30/23
* [OS version support updates](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/blob/master/products/va-mobile-app/features/Version_Support/Version_Support.md) (Therese)
   * turns out we do have officially supported OS versions, but they haven't been updated since launch
      * We do NOT have an experience in the app to block or warn users
   * we should take into account OS version usage and any other tech considerations when deciding which versions to support
   * We should reassess supported versions on a reegular cadence
   * We could use waygates/availability framework to enforce this
   * May need to handle access to medical records separately from supported OS versions since medical records need to be accessible longer. 

## 11/2/23
* [QA for analytics](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/blob/master/products/va-mobile-app/features/QA%20for%20analytics/Sprint%200%3A%20QA%20for%20analytics.md)  (Greta/Therese)

## 10/19/23
* [Demo Mode Access](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/blob/master/products/va-mobile-app/features/Demo%20Mode%20Access/demoModeAccess.md) (Kelly)
    * Recording:https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/assets/50680147/c5a65b75-68ae-4cec-b24a-fffcd0e0a8ba



## 10/5/23
* [Sprint 0: Reddit Scraper - Jason C & Liz](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/blob/master/products/va-mobile-app/features/reddit-scraper/sprint-0.md)

## 9/26/23
* [Sprint 0: Push Notification Strategy - Ameet](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/blob/master/products/va-mobile-app/features/Push%20Notifications/Push%20Notification%20Strategy%20-%20Sprint%200.md)

## 9/13/23
* [Sprint 0: Pre-Needs Burial Claim - Adam](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/blob/master/products/va-mobile-app/features/PreNeed%20Burial%20Claim/PreNeedBurialClaim.md)
  * Not for Q4, but keep on the list

## 8/31/23
* Identity Team coming to talk about Terms of Use
  * Intiative Goal: To have on TOU that Veterans agree to that would give access to everything
  * Target production rollout early October
  * Mobile shouldn't have any work, it will be part of the sign in experience
    * If user accepts they can continue to servicing on the app/web
    * If user declines they will be logged out and messaging displayed what next
    * User does have the opportunity to accept TOU if they previously declined 
* Call outs & Action Items 
   - Review content on the page that is displayed when user does not accept TOU.  Ensuring there is clarity for the Veteran that not having access to va.gov also means not having access to the app
   - Is there a need to delete authentication and when does it become enforceable.  May want to consider doing staggered deletion objects
   - Share w/identity team any links we show on mobile today regarding TOU (i.e. what info do we show in privacy policy).
   - Will this work for people who are still on version of the app that use IAM
     - How many people are still on IAM? 

* Question to Rachel/Ryan
  *   Would we want to give users the ability to link out and review TOUs at a later time? 

## 8/17/23
* [Sprint 0: Backend Status Visualization Tool - Andrew](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/blob/master/products/va-mobile-app/features/BE-status-visualization/BE-status-visualization-sprint-0.md)


## 8/3/23

* [Sprint 0: Content management system (CMS)](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/blob/master/products/va-mobile-app/features/CMS/CMS%20sprint%200.md) (Misty)
* [Sprint 0: Tracking referring URLs](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/blob/master/products/va-mobile-app/features/Track%20referring%20URLs/Sprint%200%20Track%20referring%20URLs.md) (Greta)

## 7/20/23

* [Sprint 0: Error Documentation - Misty](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/blob/master/products/va-mobile-app/features/Error%20Documentation/Error%20documentation%20sprint%200.md)
  * This could help solve other issues like Call Center troubleshooting and data analytics clarification
  * Error messages are definitely Veteran-facing, so work to make them better is impactful to Veterans
  * the impact of this work is hard to measure, but it is valuable


  
## 7/6/23

* [Sprint 0: User Endpoint Enhancement - Jayson](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/blob/master/products/va-mobile-app/features/user-endpoint-enhancement/UEE-Sprint-0.md)
  * This was identified as being related to the Profile Fail Error Handling which was prioritized for Q3.


## 6/22/23

* Q3 Planning discussions
  * Rachel & Ryan encouraging us to provide suggestions and reccommendations when discussing potential solutions, etc.
  * Deep Linking experiment with process
    * Rachel & Ryan could be more involved up front to help to set the direction
    * Would like to try building things sooner in the process
    * Desired Outcome: POs to know if their involvement earlier will help to break problems into smaller chunks, and speed up the process - getting to production faster
    * Discussed trade-offs of this approach
      * works well with smaller, focused teams - QA capacity concerns in Q3
      * long-term roadmap could be less stable
      * Agreement on shipping in smaller chunks


## 6/7/23

* [Sprint 0: Submit Feedback](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/blob/master/products/va-mobile-app/features/Submit%20Feedback/submitFeedback.md) (Tim R)
* In-app Perigean recruiting (Jen E)
*  This was approved by the VA POs to proceed with 


## 5/10/23

* [Sprint 0: Defining active user base and log-in problems](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/blob/master/products/va-mobile-app/features/Defining%20active%20user%20base%20&%20log-in%20problems/Sprint%200:%20Defining%20active%20user%20base%20&%20log-in%20problems.md) (Greta)
* Omni-channel Hand-off (Rachel)
  * 5/24 we want to meet with Andrea Schnieder and her team to talk about technical discovery (potentially 2-4pm ET, hopefully changing to less)
  * Rachel to find out if we will use this meeting or Andrea will schedule something else

## 4/26/23

* Matt to run through updates to the Q2 plan
  * Health team is still focusing on Secure Messaging, then will move to Check-in
    * There will be some discovery before SM, but wil not pull anyone off other work for Check-in yet
    * The Check-in work has been streatched out to take less capacity all at once
    * Will change the scope of the Profile Fail error feature to account for capacity if needed
  * Veteran Status Card
    * Ryan will take the lead in Q2 but no capacity is expected from the team for this in Q2
* [Sprint 0: Display Zoom on Android](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/blob/master/products/va-mobile-app/features/Display%20Zoom%20on%20Android/displayZoomOnAndroid.md)


## 4/12/23



* Q2 Amazon Box discussion
    * In a perfect world, what would someone gift wrap and give us for making it easier to launch a new feature?


## 3/29/23



* Revisit PACT Act conclusions
* Q2 draft project list sync


## 3/15/23



*  (Jon / Tim)


## 3/8/23



* Canceling 3/22 Sprint 0 session for an Rx Internal Retro
    * canceled
* Should we move Sprint 0 meetings to be bi-weekly?
    * Maybe, let’s confirm with Chris
* [PACT Act](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1ILkHApCHM2ZiEV-SqZhXw36TPNRYdpTMRNpcLkqrAXk/edit#) (Kelly)
* [Improving Profile/Contact Information - Reducing Barriers to Participation](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1D3TkbTQ3sOpMrnERB2zGPT--islOW5qEw-sK0iHK1Rc/edit)  


## 3/1/23



*  (Jen, Jessica & Tim) 


## 2/22/23



* The best way to coordinate what the mobile app team is doing and what the rest of VA is doing - Ryan
* Kristen
    * New role in OCTO
        * Others in equivalent roles
            * Coulton Bunney UX for other Health areas
            * Ryan - more broad UX
            * Patrick Bateman, Steven Barrs, Kay Lawyer. Mark Dewey
    * How best to coordinate
        * UX Teams - Cross Team Sync - may need to move this as there is a recurring OCTO meeting 
        * VA Monthly Meeting
        * Product - nothing recurring eternally right now
            * Should set something up for Product
            * We do join the MHV on VA.gov weekly Standup
            * Team of Teams
            * Could invite Kristen to Jen/Ryan sync 
            * Sprint 0 meeting is for upcoming features and can cover external stakeholders to work with
* We are starting to build out a dependency map for our team to help us understand who to reach out to when working a feature.


## 2/15/23



* [Profile fail error handling](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1PhQSuW_cwyVbf-LVO7syg8q7EazKtcOhR-LHXnWkZ4Y/edit?pli=1#) 
    * 2 potential workstreams
        * Improve the copy relevance 
        * BE improve stability of profile endpoint
            * Break out pieces of the requests to ask again if one request fails
            * Calling v1 endpoint first but if it fails the whole experience fails
            * Breaking these out also makes it easier to have more relevant error messaging 
* Cancel for next week?
    * Keep it going next week


## 2/7/23



* [Custom Tabs Login Update for Android Platform](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1bi0vDgkd3W0PW9nse5unmb_GOe4xVFuqPhJS_T8OOH0/edit#heading=h.91nw9c7vgyg2) (Patrick) - first 30 min
    * Happens when someone has tied their Google account to their ID.me account and tries to log in with it
        * Get Error 403 unsupported useragent
    * Small-ish effort for Eng, more unknowns for QA
        * As long as we get to the Google login screen we have made it past the useragent error
    * Patrick has a branch already with code


## 1/31/23



* [Travel Reimbursement ](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1FdtOymbhhn-6RlzlNY5L0pTXYhnslaUpuvzg-yOjmT8/edit#heading=h.4fywujtdheh8) (Adam)
* [VIC](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Rg8dUiw7MtGlpnS5ZwdJUgmBF8Moi2JFC-aEaH-NvrQ/edit#heading=h.91nw9c7vgyg2) (Kelly)

Actions



1. Reach out to Mark Duey and Check-in Modernization team about Travel Pay


## 1/24/23



* Review: [app headings sprint 0](https://docs.google.com/document/d/13WJRXn1obwUgBMQ5yWdn_EUPX8mQ4tr1E44MgaNvuko/edit?usp=sharing) (Therese)
* Sprint 0 next steps
    * Decision tree of when something should be a sprint 0 or go to the meeting or when the team should just work it and keep progressing this to next steps
        * Covering the sprint 0 in the meeting helps with prioritization
    * Guidance for team on sprint 0s
* Reviewed Digital Decision Letters
* Perigean note in Slack
    * [Participant recruiting sprint 0](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Ykx0CmDNF1kMEjPeKRokiy0bRG81iquR5QGy5hMGGGk/edit)
    * Identifying Mobile users
    * In-app recruiting as a future feature
    * Perigean said the initial screener questionnaire is created by VA so they do not update them.  The questions go through a heavy approval process so are not simple to update.
        * Asking for mobile app users in the screener may not help as answering yes may not mean they use our app


## 1/17/23



* [Digital Decision Letters](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1BL2BCxwR5_Blmow-P-zY7GySG-Z0H3ChjMMArFuDhwM/edit#) (Kelly)
* Adding sprint 0 topics to the roadmap (Matt)
    * Should we forecast when sprint o projects could eventually ship?
    * Maybe we should only forecast some of these
* Making sure that this session is not a blocker teams carrying out Sprint 0s (Matt)
    * Using the sessions to talk through tougher topics
    * Teams could pursue sprint 0s without having to wait for sprint 0 sessions
    * What gate review do we need if any to move to step 1?
        * Can we continuously groom our backlog to decide what to do with completed sprint 0s?
        * [T shirt sizing](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1ChudZAq3UPD4GoowUP0AXWfiogyDWQbanc_1F5MJL3A/edit#gid=0)
        * Continuously ranking sprint 0s and projects to use for quarterly pl
    * Make sure to set limits on how much work goes into sprint o
        * Really step 1 as well


## 1/10/23



* [Offline access & connectivity issues](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1j7UW1pc3gwNzsyUI7PDr_4bHxwSo17rFMBJkjUNYy9M/edit)  
* [Digital Decision Letters](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1BL2BCxwR5_Blmow-P-zY7GySG-Z0H3ChjMMArFuDhwM/edit#) (Kelly - save for last)
* Rx stakeholder call prep (Meko)
    * Stakeholders
        * Theresa
        * Eric
        * Maureen
        * MHV technical
            * Sirisha
            * Bill Sackawitz
            * Raquel
            * Greg Kirk


## 1/3/23 - Canceled 
