# Learning center template requirements

This is WIP and may evolve based on user research and technical findings. [Visual examples - Mural WIP](https://app.mural.co/t/departmentofveteransaffairs9999/m/departmentofveteransaffairs9999/1588167553516/2773c854e8ff3a725a5e3ee03272b78e8519f78b)


## Content fields on all learning center pages

- **Required: Breadcrumb** –  pulled from H1, cannot manually customize
- **Required: Search bar** - learning center search or  VA.gov (If user selects VA.gov search, user is taken to the normal site search results where results from all of VA.gov are pulled.)
- **Required: H1** – new H1 limit for LC pages – 70 max characters including spaces, rigid in AX
- **Required: Intro text** – rich text formattable wysiwig – 1,000 characters max including spaces. _Note: The intro text field is basically the answer text for the single QA template._
- **Optional: Alert component:** reusable/not reusable
- **Required: CTA buttons** – at least 1 required; up to 2; must restrict button text length to 40 characters to prevent wrapping button labels on mobile
- **Optional: On this page TOC links** – When enabled in the CMS by author, at least 2 H2 sections are required; TOC link text generated by the H2 text; FE logic.
- **Optional: H2 section header** - H2s (and other headings) should be hard limited to 70 characters max including spaces
- [**Required: Body - content type template**](#specific-lc-content-template-types) (See section for specific article type specs: FAQ single, FAQs multiple, Checklist, Step-by-step, About, Image/Video, etc.)
- **Optional: Repeat same CTA button(s)** – Example: User can omit repeat if page is short as in a single FAQ page 
- **Required: [Frontend content tags](#frontend-content-tags)** See also [Learning center categories](#learning-center-categories)** 
- **Required: User rating section** - "How do you rate your experience on this page?" (Formerly "Was this page helpful") Backend functionality is TBD Analytics team - GA or Medallia integration.
- **Required: [Related information](#related-information-section)** - freeform list of links and text
- **Required: [VA benefits section](#va-benefits-section)** 
- **Required: [Need more help?](#need-more-help-section)** - This section includes contact info based pre-set list of options
- **Back to top links:**  Per accessibility feedback, we will create Back to top feature at the FE that's based on page height. 

__Not visible fields:__

- **Required: Meta title** - `H1 | Veterans Affairs` format; no character limit, ~no initial caps~. The 70-character-max H1 should automatically be used to generate the meta title. Note: Can we add initial capping logic va the FE template? 
- **[Content type labels:](#content-type-labels)** - Note: Content type label will be used only on search results, and not on the articles themselves.
- ~**~Required~ TBD: [Administration taxonomy](#administration-taxonomy)** We may need administration info for AX governance - tbd. We are not using administration info for any component logic.



## Content type labels
The content type (or template) label will be used only on __listings for search results__ pages;  __all-articles-in-X__ landing pages; and __articles-tagged-y__ landing pages. They are not used on the articles themselves. Rationale: We tested with them showing in the listings and users found them useful on results/landing pages. We did not include them in the article pages and no one missed them or was confused without them. 

__Labels:__
- Question and answer
- Multiple FAQs
- Step-by-step
- About
- Checklist
- Images
- Videos



## Purpose of tags in the learning center

Tags are not meant to be a substitute search in the learning center, but a way of filtering the ocean into a lake. Content relevance based on keyword-driven search will be the primary way users can quickly find content in the learning center. 

For MVP, we will implement tag filtering by one tag at a time (not combinations of tags or layered search+tag). Future iterations: add other tag labels, based on user data such as what terms users search for most frequently inside the learning center, how users refine search, as well as patterns of common article topics during tier 2 content migrations.


## Frontend content tags

Content tags will be created in the future be based on user search queries, call center data, as well as patterns of frequent article topics during tier 2 content migrations. We may also deprecate content tags if users don't use them over time. 

- FE content tags can be a mix of audience and content topic or themes. 
- At least 1 tag (audience label) is required. This will drive the 'articles by audience' landing pages in the LC. 
- A maximum of 4 FE content tags allowed.
- Content tags are separate and different from LC categories, which are very high level organizing buckets. 

EXAMPLE:
An article called "Can I get a service dog through VA?" 
- this article might live in the primary LC category called Disability. 
- the article itself might be tagged with "service dogs" and "all Veterans." 
- if the user clicks on "service dogs" tag, they would go to a landing page with all/any articles tagged with that content theme, not just disability articles about service dogs -- i.e., health care category article about service dogs, a service dog article for fiduciaries, etc. 


### 1.0 FE tags

- All Veterans
- Sign in
- Claims and appeals status
- Payments and debt


### Audience labels for FE tags

Authors can select 1 beneficiary **or** 1 non-beneficiary audience. 

**Beneficiaries ("you're a Veteran or receive VA benefits"):** 

- All Veterans (1.0 beta launch)
- ~Veterans age 65+ with complex care needs~ <--Based on card sort results, we will not go out with this audience tag in 1.0 or 1.1
- Former prisoners of war
- Gulf War Veterans
- Incarcerated Veterans
- Korean War Veterans
- LGBTQ Veterans
- Minority Veterans
- Native American Veterans
- Vietnam War Veterans
- Women Veterans
- World War II Veterans
- Family members and caregivers
- Service members


**Non-beneficiaries ("you work with Veterans or with VA"):** 

- Schools, administrators, and other education professionals
- Career counselors and other employment specialists
- Fiduciaries
- Funeral directors and cemeteries
- Lenders, appraisers, and other real estate professionals
- Veteran service organizations and accredited representatives



## Learning center categories
These were formerly called "BE/backend tags." For clarity - to not conflate them with FE content tags - we will refer to these as "learning center categories." 

__Learning center categories are:__

1. Burials and memorials
2. Careers and employment
3. Decision reviews and appeals 
4. Disability
5. Education and training
6. Health care
7. Housing assistance and home loans
8. Life insurance
9. Pension
10. Records
11. VA account and profile  (MVP 1.0)
12. Other topics and questions (MVP 1.0)

__CMS driven logic:__
- There must be 1 primary LC category selected. (IF we display the category in the breadcrumb or url, the primary category will be used there.)
- Optional: Author can select 6 additional 'other' categories. These 'other' categories will be used to cross-link the article from those other category landing pages.

EXAMPLE: 
- The 'How to change your address online' article would live officially under the VA account/profile LC category (primary BE tag). 
- But we can select additional 'other' categories such as Disability, Health care, Education, and Records, so that the 'How to change your address online' article would be listed on the'view all articles in X' landing page for all of those categories. 
- In the FE UX, the article would just show VA account/profile as the category in the breadcrumb. 

~## Frontend vs backend tags~

__~Frontend (FE) tags - these are the labels that will appear on the article itself~__

- ~These can be a mix of audience and LC homepage 'browse by topic' category tags.~

- ~For MVP, we will allow a maximum of 4 FE tags. (This # seems high but an article can potentially use up 3 with just All Veterans, Family members, and Service members - this will be rare.)~ 

__~Backend (BE) tags - these are used in the CMS AX and do not display as FE tag labels~__

 - ~These can be a mix of audience and LC homepage 'browse by topic' categories.~ 
 
 - ~There must be 1 benefit topic or audience tag that is the "primary" BE tag.  Total BE tags will be limited to a max of 7 for mvp.~
 
 - ~The primary BE tag determines the official 'home' where the article belongs to.~ 
 
 - ~Additional 'not primary' BE tags can selected for an article. The additional BE tags will drive other "View all articles about X" landing pages; or which 'articles by X audience' landing pages) that article link can appear as well. I.e., an article can appear under multiple 'view all' lists.~
 
 > - ~Example: The 'How to change your address online' article would live officially under the VA account/profile LC category (primary BE tag). But based on additional BE tags, the article link could show up in the article groupings for the Disability, Health care, Education, and Records 'view all' list of articles. In the FE, the article could show just the VA account/profile tag if no other FE tags were selected.~
 
 

## ~FE tags~
~We are flattening topic and audience tags in the FE. Up to 4 FE tags can be displayed. The 4 can be a mix of topic and audience. Only 1 audience tag allowed.~ 

~The FE tags do not need to match the BE categories. ~By default, the "primary" BE tag should be one of the 4 FE tags~ -- ~this gives the author the ability to select 3 more as FE tags.~





## Administration taxonomy

~We are separating Administration info from tags. Benefit hub taxonomy and Administration info will be used in the CMS to inform certain components like the [Need more help? section](#need-more-help-section), but not to create the FE tag experience.~ 

We may ~also~ use Administration for user access/governance, which is still TBD. We are not using Administration data to inform any of the component logic.


__Administrations:__

- Veterans Benefits Administration

- Veterans Health Administration

- National Cemetery Administration

- Veterans Affairs


## Specific LC content template types

None of these page templates allow featured content (div.feature) components. 

1. Question and answer

2. Multiple FAQs

3. About

   - Table-based content like rates, contact info, and other multi-dimensional lists. This content type isn't a standalone template, but uses the About template. For the purposes of LC, we will need to improve the existing table component and de-bug for mobile.

4. Step-by-step - modified 'subway map'

5. Media (image/video) – new 
- Images
- Videos

6. Checklist - new

   



### Question and answer

This template is for 1 question and answer. 

Specs- not including the basic requirements on all LC pages:

- This template is simply the H1 (in the form of a question) + the wysiwig intro rich text field (as the answer).

- Alert (can be enabled below intro text; only 1 max allowed on this template)

- Q/A should be trackable in the reusable, COPE FAQs space

- The question and answer text are created in the COPE FAQs library. But the author creates the single Q/A page template by pulling/referencing the question data in the FAQs library (like reusable alerts).

- No images, videos, tables, subway maps, number callouts, etc.



See FAQs COPE ticket: https://app.zenhub.com/workspaces/vft-59c95ae5fda7577a9b3184f8/issues/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/6708  


### Multiple FAQs

This template is for multiple question-and-answers. 

Specs- not including the basic requirements on all LC pages:

- Optional: Section headers (H2s, ~H3s, etc.~)
- Wysiwyg answer block 
- Alert (can be enabled below intro text; and on body content)
- ~React widget~  Updated 9/15 CMS call.
- The question and answer texts are created in the COPE FAQs library. But the author creates the multiple FAQs page here from the template, like pulling in reusable alerts but q/a's from the FAQs library.
- No images, videos, tables, subway maps, number callouts, etc.


See FAQs COPE ticket: https://app.zenhub.com/workspaces/vft-59c95ae5fda7577a9b3184f8/issues/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/6708


### About 

This template is for text-rich, encyclopedia-like information (e.g., a text only Wikipedia entry). This template can also be used for multidimensional tabular content. 

Specs - not including the basic requirements on all LC pages:

- Wysiwig 
- React enabled - below BODY wysiwig (not the intro wysiwig): Updated 9/15 cms call. 
- Optional: Section headers (H2s, H3s, etc.)
- Accordion group (not as Q/As)
- Additional information
- Alert (can be enabled below intro text or within body content; not stackable)
- Table
- No images, videos, subway maps, number callouts, etc.




### Step-by-step

This template modifies the existing 'subway map' component to allow screenshots with each step.

Specs - not including the basic requirements on all LC pages:

- Everything that current subway maps allow, plus screenshots 
- Optional: Section headers (H2s, H3s, etc.) - But the first section header after intro must be an H2 (don't allow H1 to jump to H3, etc.)
- Alert (can be enabled below intro text, and within steps) - this is in addition to the alert that can be enabled as part of the 'shell' below intro block.
- Can include multiple 'subway maps' with section headers. 
- No videos, no tables, no callouts, etc.
- No REACT - Updated 9/15 cms call. 




### Media (image/video) 

This template is for visually-rich information such as images or videos.


**A.** Video template specs - not including the basic requirements on all LC pages:

- There's no customizable text on this page except the intro text and section headers. 
- Optional: Section headers (H2s, H3s, etc.) But the first section header after intro must be an H2 (don't allow H1 to jump to H3, etc.)
- Video title, description, video length, date/time publication stamp should all get pulled from the YouTube source. 
- Max up to 5 videos.
- FE progressive enhancement display/loading for low-bandwidth and mobile users. 
- Video time (duration) and published date info should get pulled into search results listing. If there are multiple videos on the page, the search results should pull in the video time+published info of just the first video on the page.



**B.** Image template specs - not including the basic requirements on all LC pages:

- Optional: Section headers (H2s, H3s, etc.) But the first section header after intro must be an H2 (don't allow H1 to jump to H3, etc.)
- Image file (min requirements/size limit - use same as those in VAMC and Outreach products)
- Image ~filename~ title field - 70 characters max including spaces
- Image description field - short optional description, max 300 characters incl spaces
- Show up to 10 images per page; standard pagination if multiple pages; max up to [TBD] images.
- Current wireframe shows an image search by file/image name. For MVP, we will not include this feature. 



### Checklist

This template is for list content that Veterans (or non-beneficiaries) can use to prepare to do something for VA. For example: a checklist of all the types of information, documents, records that you need to complete a disability claim online, and any  paper forms that are needed outside of the online application. 

Specs - not including the basic requirements on all LC pages:

- Optional: Section headers (H2s, H3s, etc.) But the first section header after intro must be an H2 (don't allow H1 to jump to H3, etc.)
- Alert (can be enabled below intro text or within body content; not stackable)
- Section text blurb - plain text, max 300 characters including spaces  <-- added 8/31
- Checkbox text field, max 300 characters including spaces
- See [ticket #13497](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/issues/13497#issuecomment-694432095) for FE user experience requirements: user needs to be able to actual check/select the checkboxes online, as well as print the page with checkboxes rendered properly as checkboxes (checked or unchecked as the user has made them). 


## VA benefits section 

This section is a variation of the CMS 'related info' component with more rigid AX. 

__AX/FE rules:__
- Up to 3 benefit hub links allowed, and at least 1 required.
- Default hub link in the CMS will be health care. 
- Author can change the default link. 
- Only selectable links in this section are the benefit hubs. 
- Selection will display the standard hub name and teaser text from the benefit hub landing page cms AX. 


__Current benefit hubs are:__

1. Burials and memorials
2. Careers and employment
3. Decision reviews and appeals 
4. Disability
5. Education and training
6. Health care
7. Housing assistance and home loans
8. Life insurance
9. Pension
10. Records
11. Service member benefits
12. Family member benefits

## Related information section

This is where authors can link to related information inside/outside the learning center.

__AX/FE rules:__
- Author can add up to 5 links here. 
- Links can point to related learning center article nodes, benefit pages, legacy VA pages, or external pages.
- If the author links to a LC article, they should be able to pull in the article node and title link and NOT have to include summary/teaser text. 



## Need more help? section

__This section includes the approved contact us phone numbers and email. It will also be where we link to the chatbot and to the IRIS replacement web email form (TBD work in progress with another team).__

- Default contact us values will be the generic VA Help Desk VA311 phone #. 
- Authors can change the default by selecting one of the contact us set of info for a benefit hub. This will pull in info from the selected benefit hub's "Ask Questions" right rail component. 
- Content authors can add one more custom contact info number or email - just one.


