### February 19, 2021

- **Asynchronous Collaboration Cycle Kickoff will replace the Project Kickoff meeting.** Instead of having a Project Kickoff meeting, we’ll ask VFS teams to review the guidance in [Getting Started with the Collaboration Cycle](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/blob/master/platform/working-with-vsp/vsp-collaboration-cycle/collab-cycle-get-started.md). This guidance will walk VFS teams through a list of questions to determine what level of support, which practice areas, and which touchpoints are needed for their work. If a team doesn’t know the answer to a question, then it’s too early for them to engage with the Collaboration Cycle. Once teams begin building or iterating on their product, they should submit a [Collaboration Cycle Kickoff](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/issues/new?assignees=andreahewitt-odd%2C+shiragoodman&labels=vsp-product-support%2C+collaboration-cycle%2C+collab-cycle-review&template=collab-cycle-kickoff.md&title=Collaboration+Cycle+Kickoff+%5BTeam+Name%2C+Feature+Name%5D) ticket. This is an asynchronous step and should happen later than a Project Kickoff did.  
- **Usability Testing Prep is now the Midpoint Review.** This touchpoint hasn’t always aligned with usability testing, so we’re renaming it to better suit VFS needs.
- **Weekly Collaboration Cycle office hours.** Starting on Wednesday, February 24, we’ll begin hosting weekly Collaboration Cycle office hours from 11:30-12:00 ET. Meeting Zoom information is listed in the [VSP Collaboration Meetings Calendar](https://calendar.google.com/calendar/u/0/embed?src=adhocteam.us_4dn3o77gcm5e3vbiedlha96tc0@group.calendar.google.com&ctz=America/New_York). 
- **More asynchronous reviews.** VFS teams will now have the option to make Design Intent and Midpoint Review touchpoints asynchronous.
- **Github organization improvements.** We’ve updated the [Collaboration Cycle README](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/tree/master/platform/working-with-vsp/vsp-collaboration-cycle) so guidance is more findable and intuitive.
- **Issue template updates.** We’ve updated the Collaboration Cycle issue templates to reflect artifact requirements and who’s responsible for which tasks. Major changes can be seen with the Privacy & Security Review and the new Collaboration Cycle Kickoff.
- **Requirements for Full Accessibility and 508 Office Audit.** VFS teams will be required to fix all accessibility defects found at Staging Review before they can request a [Full Accessibility and 508 Office Audit](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/blob/master/platform/working-with-vsp/vsp-collaboration-cycle/touchpoint-accessibility-audit.md).
- **Updated communication protocols.** VFS teams should no longer reach out to VSP Collaboration Cycle team members directly for support. This means VFS teams should not assign VSP Collaboration Cycle team members to their Github tickets. See the Contact us section in the [VSP Collaboration Cycle README](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/blob/master/platform/working-with-vsp/vsp-collaboration-cycle/README.md) for how to request support from the Collaboration Cycle.
