# August 29, 2023: Survivor benefits business line review
*Ask VA Integration Team*

## Agenda

- Introductions
- Review AVA form fields
- Review category and topic names

## Attendees

- Our team: Tyler, Becky, Ruchi, Chante
- Survivor benefits team: Victor Breon Johnson
- NCA team: Jennifer Kelly
- CRM team: Jaime, Shelby, Chris, Wayne, Maria
- Not present: Jennifer Reaser-Feuer, Angelita Taylor

## Key takeaways

- The responses to `Tell us the reason you’re contacting us` aren't being used much by agents:
> "I don't think it's useful. We rarely receive compliments... Town hall is different. When we were having the town hall on a regular basis, we did see that. But in general this field doesn't really serve a big purpose. I haven't even looked at the data to see how often this is being used."
- Both Breon and Jennifer said they will use whichever contact method is preferred by the Veteran. Both business lines have the ability to send US mail, too.
- `Gender` is not necessary:
> "Not necessarily. We don't need to have gender. Pronouns met this purpose, now we don't have to assume based on gender."
- We looked at each `military service information` field. The most important seem to be `name` `branch of service` `DOB` `benefits claim number` and `SSN`. SSN is required. If they have more information, they can probably do more.
> "Enhanced protocol we need service dates, and for those in the Phillippines we need EDIPI. We use VBMS for the enhanced lookup."
>
> "I've always been confused about the service number, it only applies to a specific group of Veterans. We're not using that as an identifier."
- We proposed the category name is updated to  `Family member benefits` but learned that this isn't comprehensive enough:
> "Senior leadership would be opposed to family member benefits, because you used to have to be a linear descendent and now they're letting approved representatives do it. `Survivor benefits` captures more."
- We asked whether the topic `Aid and Attendance benefits` should include `Housebound benefits?` and Breon said yes.
- We suggested updating `Guardianship or Custodianship Issues` to `Fiduciary issues` but learned that these are different things. It's unclear if this topic would even be for fiduciaries.
- They pointed out overlap between `Issues/Questions about Benefits received` and `Direct Deposit or Payment related inquiry`. This might be something for Breon to follow up on.

## Actions

- [ ] Check whether `Issues/Questions about Benefits received` and `Direct Deposit or Payment related inquiry` are routed to the same place.

## References

- [Category, topic and subtopic proposed names spreadsheet](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1AlUqvwn49ah2gHniTwx3x0afOPliKgURo575e73OH40/edit#gid=1192783561) we reviewed in Google Sheets.
- [Form fields review (with business lines)](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1GIsq9Y6Ap9mBUL49j1Ad7tm1N_nfD0Yoxw9ThtexCMU/edit#gid=329502423) we reviewed in Google Sheets.
- [Complete meeting notes](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1y5nzZ1pDojdTjKEXu3d0eM_jxj72WrSRxaEsZOoiqkA/edit) in Google Docs.
