# Weekly AMA with Josh Q

## Do Not Forget

- Team didn't do much digging into the entire process and how it works as a system. Just looked at the 526. 

- The team that looked into disability compensation last year focused on the 526 and not all of the associated forms. The understanding is that Unicorns would address all of the forms.

- Today, an applicant applying through eBenefits has a slightly longer application process than an applicant applying by paper.

- There is an assumption that we can only impact the form or application itself, and not the entire process.

## 526EZ Overview

- Disability Compensation: highest sought and highest paid benefit at the VA

- Disability compensation is a monetary benefit paid to Veterans who are determined by VA to be disabled by an injury or illness that was incurred or aggravated during active military service. These disabilities are considered to be service connected.

- Depending on your disabiity rating, you can get:
   - Free treatment at medical center
   - 30% higher: 10% gov job benefit
   - Can get housing discounts

- When people talk about "the backlog," most of the time talking about disability compensation process. 
   - How you apply for it. 
   - What the outcome of the benefit.
   - How long do they have to wait?

- Is is the biggest form ebenefits has. 

- Why not done last year?
   - Big push to get things done for Veterans Day so it wouldn’t have been finished in that amount of time.
   - Probably could of started earlier but there was some waffling. 
   - Focused on claim status instead. Pension, disability and all use claim status. 

- What did happen last year?
   - Josh talking with Suzanne and Mel. 
   - Focused on 526. 
   - Not a full sprint. 
   - No business owner convos. 

- Any surprises?
   - mostly asking him questions. Decided MVP would be a lot smaller. Originally just do 526. Seems now, we’d do all the forms. 

- Now that scope includes all of the forms there probably will be some additional work to include.

- Contracts uploaded include scope of work for building 526

- What should we keep in mind? 
   - __"A lot of things they would of wanted to do and didn’t explore."__
   - Ask Josh about this later.

- Goals for this project?
   - Online claims always want to shorten amount of time it takes to 
      - Develop
      - Rate
      - Send Outcome

- AVG: 123 to 126 days to process a claim

- eBenefits: higher wait than online. Why?
   - Way they handle workload is 
      - Sorted by type
      - Sorted by date

## Ideas

- Baselining around data. 

- Create a process map
   - Claim as paper
   - Claim as benefits

- Why not look beyond application? 
   - Most of the bottlenecks are beyond the application. So, time for paper and ebenefits is the same. Team didn't do much digging into the entire process and how it works as a system. 

