# **Notes, Veteran Onboarding**

# **P#9, 08/08/24, 1:00 p.m. EST**

Notetaker: Raquel

Summer 2024

### **Warm-up Questions (Optional) - 5 minutes**

Moderator: Before we look at the website, let’s start with a few warm-up questions so that we can get to know you.

1. What branch of the military did you serve in?

**Notes: Army**

1. How long did you serve?

**Notes: 21 years**

1. When did you separate or retire or are you in the process of separation?

**Notes: Retired in 1999**

1. Have you already created an account on VA.gov?

**Notes: Yes**  
a. Have you used Login.gov or ID.me or another system like DS Logon to verify your identity?

**Notes: ID.me he used it on other government agencies**

1. If you can recall, what were your first impressions interacting with VA.gov?

**Notes:**

- **Doing ID me was an eye opener**
- **It’s easy to find home loan information**
- **Health benefits easy to get to and navigate**
- **Found it easier to use VA.gov then getting assistance from DAV (disabled american v)**
- **He created an account when he refiled and had some changes to his health**

### **Section 1 \[Additional Background\] - 10 minutes**

Moderator: Now I'm going to ask a few more questions specifically about your transition out of the military.

1. Can you tell me a little more about your **separation or retirement process**?
    1. Were you introduced to VA and any benefits during your separation process?
    2. \[If Yes\] Where did you learn about VA?
    3. What types of benefits did you learn about?

**Notes:**

- **Physical introduction to VA**
- **Got award letter in the mail 3 months after that with benefits**
- **Only about half stuff was online when he separated**
- **It was easier to get information when it transitioned to online**
- **He gets info about some benefits in the mail and then went online**

1. During your transition process or post-separation, when did you first **interact with VA**?
2. Can you tell me more about your interaction? (Was it digital, in-person, over the phone)?
3. \[If interaction was delayed or if they have not yet reached out\] Can you tell me more about why you waited/are waiting to reach out to VA?
4. \[If account creation was delayed\] Can you tell me more about why you waited/are waiting to create an account and login to VA.gov?

**Notes:**

- **Got mail which directed him to website**

1. \[If they have an account on VA.gov\] When you first created an account, did you have a **specific goal** in mind?
    1. \[If Yes\] What was it?
    2. \[If No\] If you remember, can you share more about your recollections from exploring the site and if anything stood out to you?

**Notes:**

- **He was looking for something that health care would offer for tinnitus**
- **He had done other things like homeloan before creating an account**

1. What, if anything, could have improved the transition process for you?

**Notes:**

- **Central place to get answers to you question or at least see what is available**
- **You would have to go by word of mouth or make a phone call**
- **Would have liked consolidated information**

### **Section 2: \[My VA: LOA1 Message\] - 10 minutes**

#### **Review**

Moderator: Now I’d like you to take a moment to review this page. It is a prototype, so in case something doesn’t work like it might on a real site, just go ahead and share with us how you think it should work.

Please take as long as you’d like to read and explore. If you’re comfortable, I’d love to hear you “think out loud” as you go and share any thoughts. Remember, there are no wrong answers and I will not be offended by anything you share.

Questions:

1. Does this page look familiar to you? \[If Yes\] How often have you used or visited this page?
2. What, if anything, about this page stands out to you?
3. What were you hoping to find here?
4. Is the information provided what you expected to see here? Why or why not?
5. What do you imagine this page is used for?
6. Is there anything here you don’t see that you would find valuable?

**Notes:**

- **He would browse the top**
- **He doesn’t think he is there for the first part**
- **Maybe he should verify**
- **Maybe he would look into Health care**
- **Would go back and click getting started with VA**
- **“Guess I want to do with ID me”**
- **Would do the Health care**
- **Would look at education**
- **Tries to go there twice a month**
- **The welcome box and the Verify me looks familiar to him**
- **The headers stand out to him the most**
- **His first login he was trying to file a healthcare claim**
- **Imagines that the page is a portal for benefits with the VA**
- **He goes to the VA to see what is new. He might want an update on the new stuff**
- **VA.gov gives more context around if you qualify**

#### **Task**

Moderator: Now that you’ve taken a look at the page, what would you do from here?

_If the participant would like to verify, tell them to go ahead and do so and encourage them to continue through the simulated "verification" screens, then move on to Section 3 questions. If the participant clicks on the other links, ask them “Where would you expect that link to go?”_

### **Section 3: \[LOA3 Task List\] - 10 minutes**

#### **Review**

_If the user did not attempt to verify:  
_Moderator: Now we’re going to pretend that you’ve gone through the identity verification process that was called out by the green box. Go ahead and click on the “Verify your identity” link.

_Encourage participant to continue through the simulated "verification" screens_

_If the participant has already ‘verified’ as part of the previous section, move on to probing questions._

Questions:

1. What, if anything, about this page stands out to you now?
2. Is there anything different that you notice about this page?
3. Do you have any thoughts on the content and instructions on this page?
4. Is there anything here you don’t see that you would find valuable?

**Notes:**

- **Get started stood out to him**
- **Review notification settings stood out**
- **The get started checklist stood out to him**
- **The things in the get started list are not things that he had thought about**
- **He likes the Headers**
- **From here he would “start at the top”**
- **Would first go to make sure his profile is good**
- **Then he would go back and find a VA location**
- **He would probably click on “My Profile”**

#### **Task**

Moderator: Now that you’ve taken a look at the page, what would you do from here?

_If the participant would like to add their contact info, tell them to go ahead and do so, then move on to Section 4. If the participant clicks on a different link on My VA or the second task ask them, “Where would you expect that link to go?”_

### **Section 4: \[**[**Profile Completion**](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/blob/master/products/identity-personalization/profile/profile-completion/discovery-research/conversation-guide.md)**\] - 15-20 minutes**

#### **Review - Entry Point**

_If the participant has not yet moved to add their contact info, prompt them to click the “Add your contact information link” in the task list.  
_Moderator: Now imagine this was your profile on the website, what would you do from here?

- _If participant says they’d click on the first task, tell them to go ahead_
- _If the participant says they’d click on the “Go to my Profile” link, tell them to go ahead_
- _If participant says anything else, ask why they would be interested in clicking on that thing, and then guide them to click on the alert_

#### **Task - Evaluate steps 0-2 \[Add contact info page, add email, add phone\] of the Profile Completion Flow**

#### **Note: Entry Point could be from Task List or from Profile Page**

Moderator: Go ahead and take a look at this page, and tell me what you make of it. Don’t click on anything yet, but I’m curious to know what you’d do from here.

_Depending on whether they entered via the “Profile” link or the task prompt, they might end up on Profile with the alert or the Add your Contact Information “pre-flow” page with instructions._

Questions for Profile page with Alert

1. Does this page look familiar to you? \[if Yes\] How often have you used or visited this page?
2. What, if anything about this page, stands out to you?
3. Based on what you see on this page, what might you do next and why?

_After the participant has time to review the page and the alert, prompt them to click on the “Add your contact information” link. If they express a desire to click on other Profile components, ask them why and what they would expect to happen._

**Notes if PROFILE LINK was clicked:**

- This page does look familiar
- He has done notifications
- It stands out that he needs to add his contact information
- He would go to the contact information card and click Manage contact information
- He read the We need your contact information at the top and then saw the contact information box because the header there was larger in size

Questions for Add your Contact Information Page

1. Based on what you see and read here, are you required to provide this information?
2. What would you expect to happen if you clicked on “remind me later”?
3. When should “later” be?
4. How would you expect to be reminded?

**Notes if CONTACT INFO TASK LINK was clicked:**

Moderator: Thanks for that. Now you can click on things as you normally would, and please remember to think out loud as much as possible so I can understand how this works for you.

_If needed, instruct participant to click on the “Add your contact information” action link_

_  
When participant is on step one - email address and step two - mobile phone:_ Moderator: Since this is a prototype, these fields won't actually allow information to be entered. You can just click on the field to populate text before moving on.

_Allow participant to go through the flow. As needed, ask:_

1. Is the information here required?
2. What would happen if you decided to continue without providing the information?
3. Do you know how much information you will need to enter or how many screens you’ll need to review for this task? (Trying to evaluate if they notice and understand Step X of X heading)

Things to note

- Does the participant believe the information is required to move to the next step?
- What did the participant expect from “remind me later”?
- Was anything unclear or confusing?

**NOTES:**

- **He doesn’t think you are required to add information**
- **It would be hard to remind me if you don’t have contact information**
- **Would expect a flag at top of page when he logs back in**
- **Would think later is in like 72 hours**
- **He would click add your contact information**
- **He doesn’t think the email address is required**
- **If he continued without providing information he would expect something saying if you want to be updated on progress you should enter an email address**
- **Would expect to be told what is in it for him**
- **He sees that there are 3 steps**

#### **Task - Evaluate dismissing workflow and remind me later**

_Pause participant on step 3 - mailing address_

Moderator: I’m going to pause you here for just a moment to ask a few questions.

Questions:

1. If you changed your mind and wanted to get out of this workflow, would the email and phone number be saved to your profile?
2. On this step, what do you expect will happen if you choose “remind me later” instead of finishing?
3. If you wanted to return to a previous screen to change information that you’ve already entered, what would you do?

Things to note

- What did the participant expect from “remind me later”?
- Did they understand or expect that any information previously entered would be saved to their profile if they exited?

**NOTES:**

- **He would expect the steps 1 and 2 would be saved**
- **He would expect if he exited then he would have to enter all the information again when he came back**

Final confirmation page

Moderator: Take a moment to review this page and the information provided.

Questions:

1. After reviewing the information here, how do you expect VA to reach you with updates?
2. Where would you go from here?
3. If next time you log in, you wanted to review or edit the information you just entered, what would you do?
4. If you wanted to return to the My VA page, where you first saw the task list, what would you do?

Things to note:

- Is the participant curious about notification settings as it relates to what they just entered?
- Do they believe they will be prompted to go through the flow again?

**NOTES:**

- He would expect the VA to use the information he provided to contact him
- He would go back to MyVA after completing the flow
- To review or edit information he would click the link Review contact information in your profile (not clear on if he would navigate there if he wasn't’ on this page

My VA Home page

Moderator: Now we’re back to where we started.

Questions:

1. Take a look at this page again. Do you notice anything different about it, now that you have added your contact information?
2. Is there anything else you would do on this page?
3. Once you have completed the second task listed here, what do you expect would happen to the task list?

Things to note:

- Does the participant notice the status has changed?
- Are they interested in completing the second task?
- Do they expect the list to vanish once all tasks are done or re-populate with new tasks?

**NOTES:**

- He thinks he would review notification settings after completing the “add your contact information
- He might expect to see the items disappear after he has completed the steps

### **Post-Task Interview - 5 minutes**

Moderator: Thank you so much for the feedback so far! We're getting close to the end so I have just a few more questions for you about the overall experience today.

Questions:

1. If you had a magic wand and could fix anything about the overall process for new Veterans setting up their account with VA.gov, what would you do?
2. If you could wave your magic wand and change anything specifically about our process today, what would you do?
3. Is there anything we didn’t cover today that you’d like to share with me?
4. Any questions for me about what we covered today?

**NOTES:**

- **He feels like everything is there**
- **He would like a little encouragement that people can do it and it will work**
- **He did get reassurance from a real person**
- **His friend was surprised when he actually got a home loan**
- **He does like to review the contact information to make sure he spelled everything correctly**

### **Thank-You and Closing - 2 minutes**

Moderator: We really appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us today. Your feedback is so helpful to us as we continue to work on the site and make sure it really works for Veterans.  
Lastly, Perigean will be sending you a thank you note with a little blurb that you can pass along to other Veterans you may know to provide them the chance to participate in future research studies.

Thank you so much again, and enjoy the rest of your day!

### **Emergency Exit**

\[In the rare case of an emergency during a session, be prepared with an [emergency exit strategy](https://depo-platform-documentation.scrollhelp.site/research-design/Research-Safety-and-Emergency-Exit-Strategies.2143649793.html#ResearchSafetyandEmergencyExitStrategies-Sampleexitstrategies). Plan to include here at least one option, so its easy to find during a session. Take some time to practice so it feels more comfortable.\]

Debrief:

- Maybe was saying he would go to the header to find the location
- “Why is it important to enter the information” this was a strong request
- Indicating the things that are tied to the contact information would be helpful maybe what wouldn’t happen if they didn’t
- Was interesting that he went to the existing contact info tile
- He seemed to ignore the alerts
- He looked at the headers and didn’t read context
- If resources are really important we might want those to be added to MyVA permanently and not have them temporarily exist on welcome page
