# **Notes, Veteran Onboarding**

# **P#11, 09/08/24, 12:00 noon EST**

Notetaker: Raquel

Summer 2024

***


### **Warm-up Questions (Optional) - 5 minutes**

Moderator: Before we look at the website, let’s start with a few warm-up questions so that we can get to know you.

1. What branch of the military did you serve in?

**Notes: Army**

2. How long did you serve?

**Notes: 14 years**

3. When did you separate or retire or are you in the process of separation?

**Notes: In process Expect to separate in Nov**

4. Have you already created an account on VA.gov?

**Notes: Yes**\
a. Have you used Login.gov or ID.me or another system like DS Logon to verify your identity?

**Notes: Has done all 3 Login.gov ID.me and DS logon**

5. If you can recall, what were your first impressions interacting with VA.gov?

**Notes:**

- **A teacher went through and helped them go through the process**

- **Wish he would have known this stuff before he was getting out**

- **Especially to know where locations were**

***


### **Section 1 \[Additional Background] - 10 minutes**

Moderator: Now I'm going to ask a few more questions specifically about your transition out of the military.

1. Can you tell me a little more about your **separation or retirement process**?

   1. Were you introduced to VA and any benefits during your separation process?

   2. \[If Yes] Where did you learn about VA?

   3. What types of benefits did you learn about?

**Notes:** 

- **He took a mandatory class called VA benefits and service**

- **His TAP counselor signed them up**

- **Learned about where he can get info about schools**

- **Financial assistance for schools**

- **FInancial assistance for state**

- **Certain veteran groups in your area**

1. During your transition process or post-separation, when did you first **interact with VA**?

   1. Can you tell me more about your interaction? (Was it digital, in-person, over the phone)?

   2. \[If interaction was delayed or if they have not yet reached out] Can you tell me more about why you waited/are waiting to reach out to VA?

   3. \[If account creation was delayed] Can you tell me more about why you waited/are waiting to create an account and login to VA.gov?

**Notes:**

- **Recently in class**

- **Prompted to create in class**

2. \[If they have an account on VA.gov] When you first created an account, did you have a **specific goal** in mind?

   1. \[If Yes] What was it?

   2. \[If No] If you remember, can you share more about your recollections from exploring the site and if anything stood out to you?

**Notes:** 

- **He wanted to make sure he could login correctly because he was told it would be difficult when they didn’t have CAC card**

- **Then switched to ID.me**

- **Was just going through the motion when first going through the site**

- **He was looking for benefits in Nevada (location near him)**

3. What, if anything, could have improved the transition process for you?

**Notes:**

- **Service members start with TAP they are told take (x) number of classes**

- **Make certain classes mandatory around specific classes (check recording for specific class names)**

***


### **Section 2: \[My VA: LOA1 Message] - 10 minutes**

#### **Review**

Moderator: Now I’d like you to take a moment to review this page. It is a prototype, so in case something doesn’t work like it might on a real site, just go ahead and share with us how you think it should work.

Please take as long as you’d like to read and explore. If you’re comfortable, I’d love to hear you “think out loud” as you go and share any thoughts. Remember, there are no wrong answers and I will not be offended by anything you share.

Questions:

1. Does this page look familiar to you? \[If Yes] How often have you used or visited this page?

2. What, if anything, about this page stands out to you?

3. What were you hoping to find here?

4. Is the information provided what you expected to see here? Why or why not?

5. What do you imagine this page is used for?

6. Is there anything here you don’t see that you would find valuable?

**Notes:**

- **Tried to click on VA BEnefits and Health Care**

- **That is the first thing they went into in class**

- **This page looks familiar**

- **He has used it once a week since class in April**

- **My VA and go to profile stands out to him**

- **He would want to make sure his information is correct in profile**

- **This page is for checking the status of their conversations**

- **He would like to see something that would help with veterans for hire hiring information** 

- **He would first find a VA location to see the closest one to his zip code**

- **Seemed to be a little unsure where he needed to verify after he was told to verify he had to be told it was in the green box and to click the green button**

-


#### **Task**

Moderator: Now that you’ve taken a look at the page, what would you do from here?

_If the participant would like to verify, tell them to go ahead and do so and encourage them to continue through the simulated "verification" screens, then move on to Section 3 questions. If the participant clicks on the other links, ask them “Where would you expect that link to go?”_

***


### **Section 3: \[LOA3 Task List] - 10 minutes**

#### **Review**

_If the user did not attempt to verify:_Moderator: Now we’re going to pretend that you’ve gone through the identity verification process that was called out by the green box. Go ahead and click on the “Verify your identity” link.

_Encourage participant to continue through the simulated "verification" screens_

_If the participant has already ‘verified’ as part of the previous section, move on to probing questions._

Questions:

1. What, if anything, about this page stands out to you now?

2. Is there anything different that you notice about this page?

3. Do you have any thoughts on the content and instructions on this page?

4. Is there anything here you don’t see that you would find valuable?

**Notes:**

- **He would go to his profile**


#### **Task**

Moderator: Now that you’ve taken a look at the page, what would you do from here?

_If the participant would like to add their contact info, tell them to go ahead and do so, then move on to Section 4. If the participant clicks on a different link on My VA or the second task ask them, “Where would you expect that link to go?”_

***


### **Section 4: \[**[**Profile Completion**](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/blob/master/products/identity-personalization/profile/profile-completion/discovery-research/conversation-guide.md)**] - 15-20 minutes**

#### **Review - Entry Point**

_If the participant has not yet moved to add their contact info, prompt them to click the “Add your contact information link” in the task list._Moderator: Now imagine this was your profile on the website, what would you do from here?

- _If participant says they’d click on the first task, tell them to go ahead_

- _If the participant says they’d click on the “Go to my Profile” link, tell them to go ahead_

- _If participant says anything else, ask why they would be interested in clicking on that thing, and then guide them to click on the alert_


#### **Task - Evaluate steps 0-2 \[Add contact info page, add email, add phone] of the Profile Completion Flow**

#### **Note: Entry Point could be from Task List or from Profile Page**

Moderator: Go ahead and take a look at this page, and tell me what you make of it. Don’t click on anything yet, but I’m curious to know what you’d do from here.

**Notes:**

_Depending on whether they entered via the “Profile” link or the task prompt, they might end up on Profile with the alert or the Add your Contact Information “pre-flow” page with instructions._

Questions for Profile page with Alert

1. Does this page look familiar to you? \[if Yes] How often have you used or visited this page?

2. What, if anything about this page, stands out to you?

3. Based on what you see on this page, what might you do next and why?

_After the participant has time to review the page and the alert, prompt them to click on the “Add your contact information” link. If they express a desire to click on other Profile components, ask them why and what they would expect to happen._

**Notes if PROFILE LINK was clicked:**

- **He went here in the beginning to make sure his information was correct**

- **They did this when he was in class**

- **He would make sure personal and contact information was correct**

- **He would prioritize contact information he didn’t talk about the alert but clicked the link to update contact information in the alert**

Questions for Add your Contact Information Page

1. Based on what you see and read here, are you required to provide this information?

2. What would you expect to happen if you clicked on “remind me later”?

3. When should “later” be?

4. How would you expect to be reminded?

**Notes if CONTACT INFO TASK LINK was clicked:**

Moderator: Thanks for that. Now you can click on things as you normally would, and please remember to think out loud as much as possible so I can understand how this works for you.

_If needed, instruct participant to click on the “Add your contact information” action link_

_When participant is on step one - email address and step two - mobile phone:_ Moderator: Since this is a prototype, these fields won't actually allow information to be entered. You can just click on the field to populate text before moving on.

_Allow participant to go through the flow. As needed, ask:_

1. Is the information here required?

2. What would happen if you decided to continue without providing the information?

3. Do you know how much information you will need to enter or how many screens you’ll need to review for this task? (Trying to evaluate if they notice and understand Step X of X heading)

Things to note

- Does the participant believe the information is required to move to the next step?

- What did the participant expect from “remind me later”?

- Was anything unclear or confusing?

**NOTES:**

- **He believes it is required and that it is pretty standard to request that**

- **He would expect that he would get a red message alerting him that it needs to be done**

- **He would expect to be remind the next day**

- **He would expect to be reminded by text**

- **Many people don’t go on the computer often so they would need a text to get the reminder**

- **He believes the information is required**

- **If he clicked continue without providing information then the VA wouldn’t be able to contact him if he needed to**

- **He saw that there were three steps to the flow**


#### **Task - Evaluate dismissing workflow and remind me later**

_Pause participant on step 3 - mailing address_

Moderator: I’m going to pause you here for just a moment to ask a few questions.

Questions:

1. If you changed your mind and wanted to get out of this workflow, would the email and phone number be saved to your profile?

2. On this step, what do you expect will happen if you choose “remind me later” instead of finishing?

3. If you wanted to return to a previous screen to change information that you’ve already entered, what would you do?

Things to note

- What did the participant expect from “remind me later”?

- Did they understand or expect that any information previously entered would be saved to their profile if they exited?

**NOTES:**

- **He would not expect his information to be saved because he is not on the final step yet**

- **If he clicked remind me later he would expect step one and two would be saved but not step three**

- **He would go back and change the contact information if he wanted to update it**

-

Final confirmation page

Moderator: Take a moment to review this page and the information provided. 

Questions:

1. After reviewing the information here, how do you expect VA to reach you with updates?

2. Where would you go from here?

3. If next time you log in, you wanted to review or edit the information you just entered, what would you do?

4. If you wanted to return to the My VA page, where you first saw the task list, what would you do?

Things to note:

- Is the participant curious about notification settings as it relates to what they just entered?

- Do they believe they will be prompted to go through the flow again?

**NOTES:**

- He would think all my stuff is in there now I can work on veteran readiness employment or benefits or other VA stuff

- He would review his contact information to make sure he had done it correctly

- He would edit information by going to profile and then click contact info and go through that process again

- He navigated easily to the VA home page

My VA Home page

Moderator: Now we’re back to where we started.

Questions:

1. Take a look at this page again. Do you notice anything different about it, now that you have added your contact information?

2. Is there anything else you would do on this page?

3. Once you have completed the second task listed here, what do you expect would happen to the task list?

Things to note:

- Does the participant notice the status has changed?

- Are they interested in completing the second task?

- Do they expect the list to vanish once all tasks are done or re-populate with new tasks?

**NOTES:**

- He noticed the Completed tag

- He didn’t remember seeing the not started notifications task before

- He would continue to review notification settings after completing profile

- He would expect all the tasks show the completed tags when he completed them

***


### **Post-Task Interview - 5 minutes**

Moderator: Thank you so much for the feedback so far! We're getting close to the end so I have just a few more questions for you about the overall experience today.

Questions:

1. If you had a magic wand and could fix anything about the overall process for new Veterans setting up their account with VA.gov, what would you do?

2. If you could wave your magic wand and change anything specifically about our process today, what would you do?

3. Is there anything we didn’t cover today that you’d like to share with me?

4. Any questions for me about what we covered today?

**NOTES:**

- **He would make it mandatory to go through the class before they re-enlist**

- **Make TAP mandatory because a lot of people don’t know the VA is here and they have some insecurity and fear around going back into the real world**

- **He looked up VA benefits to help determine where he wanted to live**

- **If this was available earlier in career they would be able to determine where they want to go to school.**

- **He does really like the add your contact info and review notifications**

- **He likes the list of items completed/not started**

- **He is used to task lists “it is the way our minds work”**

- **He would make sure in the class everyone was in the class and completing all the tasks they need to before they head out.**

- **It would be good to go through the steps for all the sections on My VA**

***


### **Thank-You and Closing - 2 minutes**

Moderator: We really appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us today. Your feedback is so helpful to us as we continue to work on the site and make sure it really works for Veterans.\
Lastly, Perigean will be sending you a thank you note with a little blurb that you can pass along to other Veterans you may know to provide them the chance to participate in future research studies.

Thank you so much again, and enjoy the rest of your day!

***


### **Emergency Exit**

\[In the rare case of an emergency during a session, be prepared with an [emergency exit strategy](https://depo-platform-documentation.scrollhelp.site/research-design/Research-Safety-and-Emergency-Exit-Strategies.2143649793.html#ResearchSafetyandEmergencyExitStrategies-Sampleexitstrategies). Plan to include here at least one option, so its easy to find during a session. Take some time to practice so it feels more comfortable.]
