# Notes, Veteran Onboarding

## P#2, 05/08/24, 1:00 p.m. EST

## Notetaker: Raquel   
Summer 2024   

--- 

### **Warm-up Questions (Optional) - 5 minutes**

Moderator: Before we look at the website, let’s start with a few warm-up questions so that we can get to know you.1) What branch of the military did you serve in?   
**Notes: Army**   
2) How long did you serve?   
**Notes: Almost 8 years**   
3) When did you separate or retire or are you in the process of separation?   
**Notes: Separated in 1988**   
4) Have you already created an account on VA.gov?   
**Notes:** **Uhh I have It has been a long time**
a. Have you used Login.gov or ID.me or another system like DS Logon to verify your identity?   
**Notes:** - **Not sure what he logged on with, he might have another one. He was confused with which he should use**   
**Has used ID.me most recently with the driver's license**   
5. If you can recall, what were your first impressions interacting with VA.gov?   
**Notes:** * **He felt like getting anything would take a couple searches*****

--- 

### **Section 1 \[Additional Background] - 10 minutes**

Moderator: Now I'm going to ask a few more questions specifically about your transition out of the military.1) Can you tell me a little more about your separation or retirement process?\
   a. Were you introduced to VA and any benefits during your separation process?\
   b. \[If Yes] Where did you learn about VA?\
   c. What types of benefits did you learn about?   
   
**Notes:**- **Didn’t really learn about the VA until his 40s or 50s**
* **His benefits as he believe were nil**
* **He knew about the home loan and some tuition assistance**
* **His feeling was all he got was a pat on the back**
* **He explored if he was missing some benefits what can he do what can he get**

2. During your transition process or post-separation, when did you first interact with VA?\
   a. Can you tell me more about your interaction? (Was it digital, in-person, over the phone)?\
   b. \[If interaction was delayed or if they have not yet reached out] Can you tell me more about why you waited/are waiting to reach out to VA?\
   c. \[If account creation was delayed] Can you tell me more about why you waited/are waiting to create an account and login to VA.gov?

**Notes:** - **He felt like using the home loan assistance was difficult today and didn’t use it to purchase his current home**
* **He has looked at things for health care benefits and the Jacksonville health system is “for crap”**
* **He would just go with other options for health care when he is living in Florida**
* **If he was living in California he might use health care benefits**

3. \[If they have an account on VA.gov] When you first created an account, did you have a specific goal in mind?\
   a. \[If Yes] What was it?\
   b. \[If No] If you remember, can you share more about your recollections from exploring the site and if anything stood out to you?**Notes:**4. What, if anything, could have improved the transition process for you?
   
   **Notes:*** **He doesn’t think the VA could help him in Florida if he lived in Cali maybe**
* **He is not logging in to VA.gov**
* **He looks at other military benefits like rate reductions on outdoor licenses fishing etc**
* **He gets lots of discounts**

---

### **Section 2: \[My VA: LOA1 Message] - 10 minutes**

#### **Review**

Moderator: Now I’d like you to take a moment to review this page. It is a prototype, so in case something doesn’t work like it might on a real site, just go ahead and share with us how you think it should work. Please take as long as you’d like to read and explore. If you’re comfortable, I’d love to hear you “think out loud” as you go and share any thoughts. Remember, there are no wrong answers and I will not be offended by anything you share.Questions:1) Does this page look familiar to you? \[If Yes] How often have you used or visited this page?

2) What, if anything, about this page stands out to you?

3) What were you hoping to find here?

4) Is the information provided what you expected to see here? Why or why not?

5) What do you imagine this page is used for?

6) Is there anything here you don’t see that you would find valuable?   

**Notes:** **Top Nav stood out first what we are about why we care**   
* **“No idea what MyVA is is that Profile”**
* **No idea what MyHealtheVet is**
* **I don’t know if the welcome to my VA shows everytime “Probably does it’s a government site”**
* **I don’t know why you have to verify your account you already logged in**
* **It tried to run you though a set of filter pages that just get you deeper into the site instead of putting the information right on there, Here are all the things the VA can help you with** 
* **Doesn’t want to click on links**
* **“I'm trying to figure out what the VA will do for me”**
* **I don’t want to see the links**
* **I have no idea what people come here to do**
* **Would like to see what he is already doing would go to my VA didn’t realize he was currently on my VA**
* **Let’s talk a little more about health care benefits do I go the VA track? Yes or no?**
* **Would like the answers sooner in the process**
* **Do I have a benefit that I don’t know about**

#### **Task**

Moderator: Now that you’ve taken a look at the page, what would you do from here?_If the participant would like to verify, tell them to go ahead and do so and encourage them to continue through the simulated "verification" screens, then move on to Section 3 questions. If the participant clicks on the other links, ask them “Where would you expect that link to go?”_***   

---

### **Section 3: \[LOA3 Task List] - 10 minutes**

#### **Review**

_If the user did not attempt to verify:_Moderator: Now we’re going to pretend that you’ve gone through the identity verification process that was called out by the green box. Go ahead and click on the “Verify your identity” link._Encourage participant to continue through the simulated "verification" screens__If the participant has already ‘verified’ as part of the previous section, move on to probing questions._Questions:1) What, if anything, about this page stands out to you now?

2) Is there anything different that you notice about this page?

3) Do you have any thoughts on the content and instructions on this page?

4) Is there anything here you don’t see that you would find valuable?

**Notes:**- **“It starts with create a profile”*** **Maybe say let’s get a profile on the initial landing page prompt them what they need to do so they can be “helped more”**
* **It knows that you haven’t started**
* **Tell them the benefit of setting up the profile “Do this so we can help you better” give the roadmap and tell benefit**

#### **Task**

Moderator: Now that you’ve taken a look at the page, what would you do from here?_If the participant would like to add their contact info, tell them to go ahead and do so, then move on to Section 4. If the participant clicks on a different link on My VA or the second task ask them, “Where would you expect that link to go?”_***   

---

### **Section 4: \[**[**Profile Completion**](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/blob/master/products/identity-personalization/profile/profile-completion/discovery-research/conversation-guide.md)**] - 15-20 minutes**

#### **Review - Entry Point**

 _If the participant has not yet moved to add their contact info, prompt them to click the “Add your contact information link” in the task list._Moderator: Now imagine this was your profile on the website, what would you do from here?* _If participant says they’d click on the first task, tell them to go ahead_

* _If the participant says they’d click on the “Go to my Profile” link, tell them to go ahead_

* _If participant says anything else, ask why they would be interested in clicking on that thing, and then guide them to click on the alert_

#### **Task - Evaluate steps 0-2 \[Add contact info page, add email, add phone] of the Profile Completion Flow**
Note: Entry Point could be from Task List or from Profile Page

Moderator: Go ahead and take a look at this page, and tell me what you make of it. Don’t click on anything yet, but I’m curious to know what you’d do from here.   

**Notes:** **He sees he is not required to add the info** 
* **Went through the email and phone really quickly**
* **He doesn’t think that any information would be saved to profile**
* **Not sure if any info would be saved if he clicks exit and remind later**
* **Not sure if anything would ever get saved**
* **Would think that the next time he showed up he would have**
* **Not sure why mailing address is needed**
* **He does not trust what the government is doing with a lot of his information mailing address not sure**
* **He wants more information about why we need the information**
* **Does not like having to click deeper and deeper in especially when it is related to why the information is important**

_Depending on whether they entered via the “Profile” link or the task prompt, they might end up on Profile with the alert or the Add your Contact Information “pre-flow” page with instructions._Questions for Profile page with Alert1) Does this page look familiar to you? \[if Yes] How often have you used or visited this page?

2) What, if anything about this page, stands out to you?

3) Based on what you see on this page, what might you do next and why?_After the participant has time to review the page and the alert, prompt them to click on the “Add your contact information” link. If they express a desire to click on other Profile components, ask them why and what they would expect to happen._**Notes if PROFILE LINK was clicked:**Questions for Add your Contact Information Page1) Based on what you see and read here, are you required to provide this information?

2) What would you expect to happen if you clicked on “remind me later”?

3) When should “later” be?

4) How would you expect to be reminded?**Notes if CONTACT INFO TASK LINK was clicked:**Moderator: Thanks for that. Now you can click on things as you normally would, and please remember to think out loud as much as possible so I can understand how this works for you._If needed, instruct participant to click on the “Add your contact information” action link__When participant is on step one - email address and step two - mobile phone:_ Moderator: Since this is a prototype, these fields won't actually allow information to be entered. You can just click on the field to populate text before moving on._Allow participant to go through the flow. As needed, ask:_1) Is the information here required?

2) What would happen if you decided to continue without providing the information?

3) Do you know how much information you will need to enter or how many screens you’ll need to review for this task? (Trying to evaluate if they notice and understand Step X of X heading)Things to note* Does the participant believe the information is required to move to the next step?

* What did the participant expect from “remind me later”?

* Was anything unclear or confusing?

**NOTES:**

#### **Task - Evaluate dismissing workflow and remind me later**

_Pause participant on step 3 - mailing address_ Moderator: I’m going to pause you here for just a moment to ask a few questions.Questions:1) If you changed your mind and wanted to get out of this workflow, would the email and phone number be saved to your profile?

2) On this step, what do you expect will happen if you choose “remind me later” instead of finishing?

3) If you wanted to return to a previous screen to change information that you’ve already entered, what would you do?Things to note* What did the participant expect from “remind me later”?

* Did they understand or expect that any information previously entered would be saved to their profile if they exited?**NOTES:**Final confirmation pageModerator: Take a moment to review this page and the information provided. Questions:1) After reviewing the information here, how do you expect VA to reach you with updates?

2) Where would you go from here?

3) If next time you log in, you wanted to review or edit the information you just entered, what would you do?

4) If you wanted to return to the My VA page, where you first saw the task list, what would you do?Things to note:* Is the participant curious about notification settings as it relates to what they just entered?

* Do they believe they will be prompted to go through the flow again?

**NOTES:** **He wouldn’t want to see why they need information at the end**
* **He want to go right to the VA profile page when he is done**
* **If new he thinks you would want a welcome email with benefits and a list of “here is what you can qualify for now**
* **And info about you have an opportunity to use VA healthcare**
* **WOuld like more proactive things to explore or he can use**

_Once participant has reviewed the page, prompt them to return to My VA by clicking the link._Moderator: Now we’re back to where we started.Questions:1) Take a look at this page again. Do you notice anything different about it, now that you have added your contact information?

2) Is there anything else you would do on this page?

3) Once you have completed the second task listed here, what do you expect would happen to the task list?
Things to note:* Does the participant notice the status has changed?

* Are they interested in completing the second task?

* Do they expect the list to vanish once all tasks are done or re-populate with new tasks?

**NOTES:** **He would go to My Profile or MyVAHe noticed the completed**
* **Wants to be prompted to the next task and not go back to the home page every time**
* **Doesn’t want to confirmation page and then navigate back**
* **He feels at this point he should have benefits he should be able to explore “Here are the things you might want to explore or do”**
* **“I don’t know what I don’t know”**
* **He really wants to see them on the page**
* **You got discharged with a disability**
* **I don’t know if I do something in the VA system - do I have to file a claim? Where is my VA loan benefits ?This page leads me to believe this is all I can do on VA.gov he knows it is not***

---

### **Post-Task Interview - 5 minutes**

Moderator: Thank you so much for the feedback so far! We're getting close to the end so I have just a few more questions for you about the overall experience today.Questions:1) If you had a magic wand and could fix anything about the overall process for new Veterans setting up their account with VA.gov, what would you do?

2) If you could wave your magic wand and change anything specifically about our process today, what would you do?

3) Is there anything we didn’t cover today that you’d like to share with me?

4) Any questions for me about what we covered today?

**NOTES:** **Onboarding should be part of the discharge process**
* **He had to go to some sort of services and got sent all over the place**
* **There should be a streamlined process for getting discharged**
* **Thank you for your service let’s make sure you know about your benefits**
* **If you have a disability these are the things set up for you**
* **These are the things the government has given you to take part in**
* **Everything you can access is word of mouth**
* **There should be an outgoing of services “educate services” - Don’t dump me on a landing page that doesn’t “Help me know and help me understand why”***

---

### **Thank-You and Closing - 2 minutes**

Moderator: We really appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us today. Your feedback is so helpful to us as we continue to work on the site and make sure it really works for Veterans.\
Lastly, Perigean will be sending you a thank you note with a little blurb that you can pass along to other Veterans you may know to provide them the chance to participate in future research studies.Thank you so much again, and enjoy the rest of your day!***

### **Emergency Exit**

\[In the rare case of an emergency during a session, be prepared with an [emergency exit strategy](https://depo-platform-documentation.scrollhelp.site/research-design/Research-Safety-and-Emergency-Exit-Strategies.2143649793.html#ResearchSafetyandEmergencyExitStrategies-Sampleexitstrategies). Plan to include here at least one option, so its easy to find during a session. Take some time to practice so it feels more comfortable.]
