# Notes, Veteran Onboarding

## P#3, 06/08/24, 11:00 a.m. EST

### Notetaker: Raquel

Summer 2024

---

### Warm-up Questions (Optional) - 5 minutes

Moderator: Before we look at the website, let’s start with a few warm-up questions so that we can get to know you.   
1) What branch of the military did you serve in?   
* **Notes: Marine Corps**   
2) How long did you serve?   
* **Notes: 9 years active 4 years reserve**   
3) When did you separate or retire or are you in the process of separation?   
* **Notes: Separated active 2018 in the reserve until today**   
4) Have you already created an account on VA.gov?   
* **Notes: Have account**    
a. Have you used Login.gov or ID.me or another system like DS Logon to verify your identity?   
* **Notes: Thinks it was ID.me**   
5) If you can recall, what were your first impressions interacting with VA.gov?
* **Notes: it was overwhelming. Was trying to check eligibility certification for the GI bill for the university wanted education benefits.**   
* **It was confusing. Was able to get the information he needed but not pleasant**

---

### Section 1 [Additional Background] - 10 minutes

Moderator: Now I'm going to ask a few more questions specifically about your transition out of the military.   
1) Can you tell me a little more about your separation or retirement process?   
a. Were you introduced to VA and any benefits during your separation process?   
b. [If Yes] Where did you learn about VA?   
c. What types of benefits did you learn about?   
* **Notes: He did a week long course when first separating**
* **People associated with benefits would talk to him about it**
* **When transitioning out of reserves there was nothing**
2) During your transition process or post-separation, when did you first interact with VA?     
a. Can you tell me more about your interaction? (Was it digital, in-person, over the phone)?  
b. [If interaction was delayed or if they have not yet reached out] Can you tell me more about why you waited/are waiting to reach out to VA?  
c. [If account creation was delayed] Can you tell me more about why you waited/are waiting to create an account and login to VA.gov?    
* **Notes: Learned aout the GI bill if they were Montgomery or post 9/11**
* **Skimmed over home loans and general outreach**
* **In person class they came to installation**
* **Created an account a month or two after the classes**
* **He didn’t pay too much attention to class**
* **He knew he needed information about the GI bill but listed to the school more than the classes**

3)[If they have an account on VA.gov] When you first created an account, did you have a specific goal in mind?   
a. If Yes] What was it?   
b. [If No] If you remember, can you share more about your recollections from exploring the site and if anything stood out to you?   
* **Notes: He was really focusing on the GI bill when he was getting out**   
4) What, if anything, could have improved the transition process for you?   
* **Notes: He wasn’t sure where to go when he got in**   
* **He did look at an article that told him where to go**   
* **If the accounts would have been made in the transition course that would have been helpful**   
* **He knows they got a lot of fliers and handouts it was just a lot of information to get in one week**   
* **“It was just too much”**   

--- 

### Section 2: My VA: LOA1 Message] - 10 minutes

#### Review
Moderator: Now I’d like you to take a moment to review this page.   
It is a prototype, so in case something doesn’t work like it might on a real site, just go ahead and share with us how you think it should work. Please take as long as you’d like to read and explore. If you’re comfortable, I’d love to hear you “think out loud” as you go and share any thoughts. Remember, there are no wrong answers and I will not be offended by anything you share.   

Questions:   
1) Does this page look familiar to you?   
[If Yes] How often have you used or visited this page?   
2) What, if anything, about this page stands out to you?   
3) What were you hoping to find here?   
4) Is the information provided what you expected to see here? Why or why not?   
5) What do you imagine this page is used for?   
6) Is there anything here you don’t see that you would find valuable?
* **Notes: “Reminiscent of what is already out there”**
* **“It feels like a page I have already been to”**
* **“I feel like I need to go back and verify again”**
* **In the last 6 months hasn’t used it, did use it like once a month ago**
* **This page feels like a portal for other application he would go to**
* **I would like to see tiles instead of little sections - It would be easier to take in information**
* **Would expect to see this introductory material for the main parts of VA**
* **He imagines this is the first login page for information on his benefits or applying for benefits**
* **He would go to “apply for VA healthcare” he would like another page with the process of how to apply for healthcare with another link to the form page. He would realistically expect that it would give a little information and then many more separate links to click on** 

#### Task
Moderator: Now that you’ve taken a look at the page, what would you do from here?   
_If the participant would like to verify, tell them to go ahead and do so and encourage them to continue through the simulated "verification" screens, then move on to Section 3 questions. If the participant clicks on the other links, ask them “Where would you expect that link to go?”_  

---

### Section 3: [LOA3 Task List] - 10 minutes   

#### Review

_If the user did not attempt to verify:_ Moderator: Now we’re going to pretend that you’ve gone through the identity verification process that was called out by the green box. Go ahead and click on the “Verify your identity” link.   
_Encourage participant to continue through the simulated "verification" screens. If the participant has already ‘verified’ as part of the previous section, move on to probing questions._      

Questions:   
1) What, if anything, about this page stands out to you now?     
2) Is there anything different that you notice about this page?   
3) Do you have any thoughts on the content and instructions on this page?   
4) Is there anything here you don’t see that you would find valuable?
* **Notes:** **The get started stands out and the ability to add more information**
* **The instructions feel basic**
* **He is not sure if he needs to take the actions or if the site just wants more information (not sure if required or not)**
* **He would go to notifications first he doesn’t like notifications so he would not want an overload of that information, he would want to turn some of them off**

#### Task
Moderator: Now that you’ve taken a look at the page, what would you do from here?
_If the participant would like to add their contact info, tell them to go ahead and do so, then move on to Section 4._
_If the participant clicks on a different link on My VA or the second task ask them, “Where would you expect that link to go?”_   

---

### Section 4: [Profile Completion](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/blob/master/products/identity-personalization/profile/profile-completion/discovery-research/conversation-guide.md)] - 15-20 minutes

#### Review - Entry Point
_If the participant has not yet moved to add their contact info, prompt them to click the “Add your contact information link” in the task list._
Moderator: Now imagine this was your profile on the website, what would you do from here?   
_If participant says they’d click on the first task, tell them to go ahead_
_If the participant says they’d click on the “Go to my Profile” link, tell them to go ahead_
_If participant says anything else, ask why they would be interested in clicking on that thing, and then guide them to click on the alert_

#### Task - Evaluate steps 0-2 [Add contact info page, add email, add phone] of the Profile Completion Flow
_Note: Entry Point could be from Task List or from Profile Page_   
Moderator: Go ahead and take a look at this page, and tell me what you make of it. Don’t click on anything yet, but I’m curious to know what you’d do from here.
* **Notes:** **He likes the basic overview of what he is missing**
* **He tried to click the drop down - expected it to bring more options**
* **He doesn’t think he is required to add more info**
* **If he clicks remind me later and go back he would expect to take to my info page and then next time he logs in he expects a little pop up reminding him to complete**
* **Quickly went through the phone number and email. Didn’t think the info was required but responded hesitantly**
* **Expected the info to save if he did enter info**
* **Seemed a little not confident about the number of steps**
* **He guessed the email and phone would be saved to his profile**
* **Might not assume it saved prior information but would take him back to the “my info page”**
* **f he wanted to fix info he would click the back button**
* **He would have liked to have seen the information on the Your contact information page before entering info would want to add info more**
* **He would expect to be reached out by VA from email**
* **He would expect to go back to myVA after this experience**
* **Was able to navigate back easily clicked the link at the bottom of the page**

_Depending on whether they entered via the “Profile” link or the task prompt, they might end up on Profile with the alert or the Add your Contact Information “pre-flow” page with instructions._

Questions for Profile page with Alert   
1) Does this page look familiar to you? [if Yes] How often have you used or visited this page?   
2) What, if anything about this page, stands out to you?   
3) Based on what you see on this page, what might you do next and why?   
_After the participant has time to review the page and the alert, prompt them to click on the “Add your contact information” link. If they express a desire to click on other Profile components, ask them why and what they would expect to happen._


Questions for Add your Contact Information Page   
1) Based on what you see and read here, are you required to provide this information?   
2) What would you expect to happen if you clicked on “remind me later”?   
3) When should “later” be?  
4) How would you expect to be reminded?  
 
Moderator: Thanks for that. Now you can click on things as you normally would, and please remember to think out loud as much as possible so I can understand how this works for you.   
_If needed, instruct participant to click on the “Add your contact information” action link._   
_When participant is on step one - email address and step two - mobile phone:_   
Moderator: Since this is a prototype, these fields won't actually allow information to be entered. You can just click on the field to populate text before moving on.   
_Allow participant to go through the flow. As needed, ask:_   
1) Is the information here required?   
2) What would happen if you decided to continue without providing the information?   
3) Do you know how much information you will need to enter or how many screens you’ll need to review for this task? (Trying to evaluate if they notice and understand Step X of X heading)   

Things to note:
* Does the participant believe the information is required to move to the next step?   
* What did the participant expect from “remind me later”?  
* Was anything unclear or confusing?   

#### Task - Evaluate dismissing workflow and remind me later
_Pause participant on step 3 - mailing address_    
Moderator: I’m going to pause you here for just a moment to ask a few questions.     
Questions:   
1) If you changed your mind and wanted to get out of this workflow, would the email and phone number be saved to your profile?   
2) On this step, what do you expect will happen if you choose “remind me later” instead of finishing?
3) If you wanted to return to a previous screen to change information that you’ve already entered, what would you do?

Things to note: 
* What did the participant expect from “remind me later”?
* Did they understand or expect that any information previously entered would be saved to their profile if they exited?

Final confirmation page   
Moderator: Take a moment to review this page and the information provided.
Questions:
1) After reviewing the information here, how do you expect VA to reach you with updates?
2) Where would you go from here?
3) If next time you log in, you wanted to review or edit the information you just entered, what would you do?
4) If you wanted to return to the My VA page, where you first saw the task list, what would you do?   

Things to note:    
* Is the participant curious about notification settings as it relates to what they just entered?
* Do they believe they will be prompted to go through the flow again?   

* **NOTES:** **Noticed the completed**
* **WOuld go to review notifications right after completing the first step**
* **Would expect the task list to stay and both would show completed**
* **Or maybe both would be gone**

_Once participant has reviewed the page, prompt them to return to My VA by clicking the link._
Moderator: Now we’re back to where we started.   
Questions:
1) Take a look at this page again. Do you notice anything different about it, now that you have added your contact information?
2) Is there anything else you would do on this page?
3) Once you have completed the second task listed here, what do you expect would happen to the task list?

Things to note: 
* Does the participant notice the status has changed?
* Are they interested in completing the second task?
* Do they expect the list to vanish once all tasks are done or re-populate with new tasks?

### Post-Task Interview - 5 minutes
Moderator: Thank you so much for the feedback so far! We're getting close to the end so I have just a few more questions for you about the overall experience today.
Questions:
1) If you had a magic wand and could fix anything about the overall process for new Veterans setting up their account with VA.gov, what would you do?
2) If you could wave your magic wand and change anything specifically about our process today, what would you do?
3) Is there anything we didn’t cover today that you’d like to share with me?
4) Any questions for me about what we covered today?   
* **NOTES:** **The initial login process from what he remembers was very difficult. He would like that to change**
* **He would move the setting up the contact information be the next step and not allow people to wander around**
* **Would like to show what the contact information was used for right up front**
* **He wants context about WHY information is needed.**
* **He likes tiles instead of the long list, it feels more app like or mobile device like**

### Thank-You and Closing - 2 minutes
Moderator: We really appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us today. Your feedback is so helpful to us as we continue to work on the site and make sure it really works for Veterans.
Lastly, Perigean will be sending you a thank you note with a little blurb that you can pass along to other Veterans you may know to provide them the chance to participate in future research studies.Thank you so much again, and enjoy the rest of your day!\*\*\*

---

### Emergency Exit

[In the rare case of an emergency during a session, be prepared with an \[emergency exit strategy]\(https\://depo-platform-documentation.scrollhelp.site/research-design/Research-Safety-and-Emergency-Exit-Strategies.2143649793.html#ResearchSafetyandEmergencyExitStrategies-Sampleexitstrategies). Plan to include here at least one option, so its easy to find during a session. Take some time to practice so it feels more comfortable.]

