# **Notes, Veteran Onboarding**


## **P#4, 06/08/24, 1:00 p.m. EST**

Notetaker: Raquel

Summer 2024

---

### **Warm-up Questions (Optional) - 5 minutes**

Moderator: Before we look at the website, let’s start with a few warm-up questions so that we can get to know you.

1. What branch of the military did you serve in?

   * **Notes: US Navy**

2. How long did you serve?

   * **Notes: 3 years**

3. When did you separate or retire or are you in the process of separation?

   * **Notes: 2001**

4. Have you already created an account on VA.gov?

    ***Notes Have not**
a. Have you used Login.gov or ID.me or another system like DS Logon to verify your identity?

   * **Notes: Has done some searches to get a feel for the account but has never signed in**

5. If you can recall, what were your first impressions interacting with VA.gov?

* **Notes: The UI right now seems like a mobile version on a website**   
* **Feels like he would like more information**   
* **WOuld like more info about where to know where to go**   
* **Locations in area about 50 percent of page is blank real estate**   
* **Is there more information that would help me learn more about the location**   
* **He would like reviews with health care etc**
* **Has not dug deep because he doesn’t hear a lot of great stories**   
* **He has not leaned on the VA because he is in health care and uses that**   


---

### **Section 1 [Additional Background] - 10 minutes**

Moderator: Now I'm going to ask a few more questions specifically about your transition out of the military.

1. Can you tell me a little more about your separation or retirement process?   
a. Were you introduced to VA and any benefits during your separation process?   
b. [If Yes] Where did you learn about VA?   
c. What types of benefits did you learn about?
 
*	**Notes: His review felt rushed and “check boxy”**   
*	**He didn’t feel like he was comprehending the information he was getting**   
*	**There were a lot of terms thrown out that he really didn’t understand**   
*	**Needed more plain language**   

During your transition process or post-separation, when did you first interact with VA?   
a. Can you tell me more about your interaction? (Was it digital, in-person, over the phone)?   
b. [If interaction was delayed or if they have not yet reached out] Can you tell me more about why you waited/are waiting to reach out to VA?   
c. [If account creation was delayed] Can you tell me more about why you waited/are waiting to create an account and login to VA.gov?   
* **Notes:**   
* **He learned about VA during the checkbox process**   
* **The healthcare piece was covered and it stuck out**   
* **GI bill was covered**   
* **VA loans was quickly covered**   
* **He has used a VA loan two times and it was a good experience both times**   
* **He has not created an account because he has a lack of knowledge**   
* **He has learned how to navigate without it**   
* **He used the VA loan because it was an easy process with his real estate agent**   
* **VA healthcare doesn’t give reviews about**   
* **He feels more comfortable with more info, doesn’t feel like VA healthcare gives more info**   
* **He doesn’t know what benefits are available outside of the GA bill, VA loans, and healthcare**   
* **He hadn’t gone to VA.gove in 5-6ish years**   
* **Now he thinks the info is a little more concise**   
* **The map function is a lot better than 5-6 years ago**   
* **The service functionality is a lot better**   
* **It is not as busy or complicated**   
* **Things seem more organized**   
* **Have not used ID.me etc**   

2. [If they have an account on VA.gov] When you first created an account, did you have a specific goal** in mind?  
a. [If Yes] What was it?   
b. [If No] If you remember, can you share more about your recollections from exploring the site and if anything stood out to you?   
3. What, if anything, could have improved the transition process for you?   
* **Notes:**   
* **He hears the most about healthcare**   
* **There is a ton to build on and improve**   
* **Terms need to be there claims, denials, etc**   
* **Difficult to navigate who can you talk to if you don’t understand something? How can you learn what was done to you or for you?**   
* **He would have liked to have a personnel representative to help give info about what information means**   
* **Would have loved an advocate to translate what was going on and to give resources and an advocate in your area**   

---

### **Section 2: [My VA: LOA1 Message] - 10 minutes

##### **Review**

Moderator: Now I’d like you to take a moment to review this page. It is a prototype, so in case something doesn’t work like it might on a real site, just go ahead and share with us how you think it should work.

Please take as long as you’d like to read and explore. If you’re comfortable, I’d love to hear you “think out loud” as you go and share any thoughts. Remember, there are no wrong answers and I will not be offended by anything you share.

Questions:   
1. Does this page look familiar to you? [If Yes] How often have you used or visited this page?   
2. What, if anything, about this page stands out to you?   
3. What were you hoping to find here?   
4. Is the information provided what you expected to see here? Why or why not?   
5. What do you imagine this page is used for?   
6. Is there anything here you don’t see that you would find valuable?   
**Notes:**   
* **Skimmed the information**   
* **“After I log in I have to verify my identity again?”**
* **He is confused about why he has to “verify his identity again” feels that already happened when he logged in**    
* **Feels like the page is a little “bare bones”**   
* **He assumed that through the creation of an account that his identity would be verified through that process**    
* **He expects the welcome and expects the identity part is already done**    
* **He would like a “get to know you” form questionnaire**    
* **This is a knowledge base with information**    
* **Would like help if the page would HELP him decide what he really needs (who he should talk to, what he wants)**    
* **He would like something created for him that is more tailored to him**   
* **He doesn’t want to be responsible for figuring out how the website works**   
* **He gets impatient when he has to find vs when his is assisted and doesn’t know what is possible**    
* **What is the page used for? He doesn’t know what the purpose of the ID.me account is.**    
* **A welcome page is just an introduction if it doesn’t have a questionnaire**    
* **The whole page feels off to him**   
* **How does he feel welcome if he is still not through the door**   
* **If he doesn't have time he will stop -he has walked through one door and there is another door he would stop now**   
* **Are the resources so general that making a login doesn’t really make a difference**   
* **What is the real value of creating a login before verifying identity**   
* **Not sure where the value is**   
* **Outline what the value of creating a login and profile are**    
* **“If I don’t know the value it will offer and the amount of time it will take” he will just continue without it**   


##### **Task**

Moderator: Now that you’ve taken a look at the page, what would you do from here?

_If the participant would like to verify, tell them to go ahead and do so and encourage them to continue through the simulated "verification" screens, then move on to Section 3 questions. If the participant clicks on the other links, ask them “Where would you expect that link to go?”_


---


### **Section 3: [LOA3 Task List] - 10 minutes**


##### **Review**

_If the user did not attempt to verify:_
_Moderator: Now we’re going to pretend that you’ve gone through the identity verification process that was called out by the green box. Go ahead and click on the “Verify your identity” link.

_Encourage participant to continue through the simulated "verification" screens_

_If the participant has already ‘verified’ as part of the previous section, move on to probing questions._

Questions:

1. What, if anything, about this page stands out to you now?
2. Is there anything different that you notice about this page?
3. Do you have any thoughts on the content and instructions on this page?
4. Is there anything here you don’t see that you would find valuable?

**Notes:**   
* **Still confused with get started box**    
* **In the login the email and phone number were added**    
* **Notification settings is fair normally in the background likes the idea of the notifications upfront**    
* **I don’t know if it is getting started might be more like “finishing your profile”**    
* **“How many times am I getting started?” Is login getting started is verify my identity getting started?**    
* **It feels like i am hitting break gas break gas**    
* **I am still not seeing the value of now step three in the process**    
* **Doesn’t see a purpose of the third step could have been combined with previous**    
* **Would like to see particular info about him**   
* **Address phone number point of contact would expect that to be stored in MyVA**   
* **Would think the information would come from the verification process**   
* **Verification should be verifying against something**   
* **When he gave phone number and area code we should be able to determine the state he is in at least he would expect fields to be pre populated**   
* **He doesn’t know what ID.me is he doesn’t know if it can pull info from somewhere else**   
* **He would expect ID.me to ask for my social as part of the Identification process**   
* **Expects to ask if he is a veteran, spouse, etc when verifying**   


##### **Task**

Moderator: Now that you’ve taken a look at the page, what would you do from here?

_If the participant would like to add their contact info, tell them to go ahead and do so, then move on to Section 4. If the participant clicks on a different link on My VA or the second task ask them, “Where would you expect that link to go?”_


---


### **Section 4: [[Profile Completion](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/blob/master/products/identity-personalization/profile/profile-completion/discovery-research/conversation-guide.md)] - 15-20 minutes**


##### **Review - Entry Point**

_If the participant has not yet moved to add their contact info, prompt them to click the “Add your contact information link” in the task list._
_Moderator: Now imagine this was your profile on the website, what would you do from here?
* _If participant says they’d click on the first task, tell them to go ahead_
* _If the participant says they’d click on the “Go to my Profile” link, tell them to go ahead_
* _If participant says anything else, ask why they would be interested in clicking on that thing, and then guide them to click on the alert_

##### **Task - Evaluate steps 0-2 [Add contact info page, add email, add phone] of the Profile Completion Flow**    
_Note: Entry Point could be from Task List or from Profile Page_

Moderator: Go ahead and take a look at this page, and tell me what you make of it. Don’t click on anything yet, but I’m curious to know what you’d do from here.

_Depending on whether they entered via the “Profile” link or the task prompt, they might end up on Profile with the alert or the Add your Contact Information “pre-flow” page with instructions._

Questions for Profile page with Alert

1. Does this page look familiar to you? [if Yes] How often have you used or visited this page?
2. What, if anything about this page, stands out to you?
3. Based on what you see on this page, what might you do next and why?

_After the participant has time to review the page and the alert, prompt them to click on the “Add your contact information” link. If they express a desire to click on other Profile components, ask them why and what they would expect to happen._

Questions for Add your Contact Information Page

1. Based on what you see and read here, are you required to provide this information?
2. What would you expect to happen if you clicked on “remind me later”?
3. When should “later” be?
4. How would you expect to be reminded?

**Notes if CONTACT INFO TASK LINK was clicked:**   
* **He just set up the account and he is already missing information**    
* **How could he be missing something when he just started it**   
* **The wording seems negative why not make this a positive experience**    
* **Why not share what he is getting by completing this task**    
* **Wording like this magnifies the feeling of you need to do this for us or you will feel bad**    
* **Remind me later and go back will take to previous screen later doesn’t evoke anything, it might as well say forget me now or come back if you remember or care**    
* **He already put in his phone number so why is it saying it is missing**    
* **Email was part of login so why is it missing?**    
* **From his understanding he has already completed two of the three**    
* **Confused why is this asking me I already entered my email**    
* **Might want it to say verify and be already populated or not exist and only verify what is truly missing which in this case is home address**    
* **He feels like there are WAY to many clicks for what is being asked**    
* **Why does he need to click continue multiple times when my computer can auto fill and I can look at it and review it and be done**    
* **He feels like there were 8 screens from the beginning**    
* **He would not expect previous information to be saved he would expect the whole form to be blank unless he completed it**   
* **He would expect the info to co away if he clicked remind me later**   
* **He would click there to be an edit profile under the name if he wanted to edit it**   

Moderator: Thanks for that. Now you can click on things as you normally would, and please remember to think out loud as much as possible so I can understand how this works for you.

_If needed, instruct participant to click on the “Add your contact information” action link_

_When participant is on step one - email address and step two - mobile phone:_ Moderator: Since this is a prototype, these fields won't actually allow information to be entered. You can just click on the field to populate text before moving on.

_Allow participant to go through the flow. As needed, ask:_

1. Is the information here required?
2. What would happen if you decided to continue without providing the information?
3. Do you know how much information you will need to enter or how many screens you’ll need to review for this task? (Trying to evaluate if they notice and understand Step X of X heading)

Things to note   
* Does the participant believe the information is required to move to the next step?
* What did the participant expect from “remind me later”?
* Was anything unclear or confusing?

##### **Task - Evaluate dismissing workflow and remind me later**

_Pause participant on step 3 - mailing address_

Moderator: I’m going to pause you here for just a moment to ask a few questions.

Questions:

1. If you changed your mind and wanted to get out of this workflow, would the email and phone number be saved to your profile?
2. On this step, what do you expect will happen if you choose “remind me later” instead of finishing?
3. If you wanted to return to a previous screen to change information that you’ve already entered, what would you do?

Things to note
* What did the participant expect from “remind me later”?
* Did they understand or expect that any information previously entered would be saved to their profile if they exited?

**Final confirmation page**
Moderator: Take a moment to review this page and the information provided. 

Questions:

1. After reviewing the information here, how do you expect VA to reach you with updates?
2. Where would you go from here?
3. If next time you log in, you wanted to review or edit the information you just entered, what would you do?
4. If you wanted to return to the My VA page, where you first saw the task list, what would you do?

Things to note:
* Is the participant curious about notification settings as it relates to what they just entered?
* Do they believe they will be prompted to go through the flow again?

* **NOTES:**
* **He really likes the conciseness of the confirmation page**   
* **He really likes the bullets**    
* **He likes using words without jargon**   
* **He expects the VA to reach him he thinks the notification settings would be the place he would set where he would be reached**   
* **He does not seem sure about what would happen before he goes nad sets up notifications**   
* **WOuld like the bullet points to be hyperlinked to topics**   
* **Gratifying moment would be now that he completed this process he can now do more things and have links to them**   
* **To update profile info he would go to the top right where his name was**   
* **WOuld navigate back to the home page by clicking the VA logo**   

**My VA Home page**
Moderator: Now we’re back to where we started.

Questions:

1. Take a look at this page again. Do you notice anything different about it, now that you have added your contact information?
2. Is there anything else you would do on this page?
3. Once you have completed the second task listed here, what do you expect would happen to the task list?

Things to note:
* Does the participant notice the status has changed?
* Are they interested in completing the second task?
* Do they expect the list to vanish once all tasks are done or re-populate with new tasks?

* **NOTES:**
* **He noticed the complete tag**    
* **He would go through the review notification settings if he was following procedure**    
* **After completing the notification he would expect**   
* **He prefers the summary more than the list of claims and appeals and health care etc**   
* **He doesn’t know what the value of the page is when the list is done**   
* **He would l ike a start and more context around teach “bucket”**   


---


### **Post-Task Interview - 5 minutes**

Moderator: Thank you so much for the feedback so far! We're getting close to the end so I have just a few more questions for you about the overall experience today.

Questions:

1. If you had a magic wand and could fix anything about the overall process for new Veterans setting up their account with VA.gov, what would you do?
2. If you could wave your magic wand and change anything specifically about our process today, what would you do?
3. Is there anything we didn’t cover today that you’d like to share with me?
4. Any questions for me about what we covered today?

* **NOTES:**
* **He would give people the option for an advocate**   
* **If he did not want to do this on his own make that really clear that it is available to him**   
* **Would like someone to really explain context and options**   
* **Overall he would like to condense the profile completion process**   
* **Present self help and connect with a resource in one place**   

---

### **Thank-You and Closing - 2 minutes**

Moderator: We really appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us today. Your feedback is so helpful to us as we continue to work on the site and make sure it really works for Veterans.
Lastly, Perigean will be sending you a thank you note with a little blurb that you can pass along to other Veterans you may know to provide them the chance to participate in future research studies.

Thank you so much again, and enjoy the rest of your day!

---


### **Emergency Exit**

[In the rare case of an emergency during a session, be prepared with an [emergency exit strategy](https://depo-platform-documentation.scrollhelp.site/research-design/Research-Safety-and-Emergency-Exit-Strategies.2143649793.html#ResearchSafetyandEmergencyExitStrategies-Sampleexitstrategies). Plan to include here at least one option, so its easy to find during a session. Take some time to practice so it feels more comfortable.]
