# **Notes, Veteran Onboarding**


## **P#6, 07/08/24, 11:00 a.m. EST**

Notetaker: Raquel

Summer 2024


---


### **Warm-up Questions (Optional) - 5 minutes**

Moderator: Before we look at the website, let’s start with a few warm-up questions so that we can get to know you.


1. What branch of the military did you serve in?

    **Notes: Army**

2. How long did you serve?

    **Notes: 13.5 years**

3. When did you separate or retire or are you in the process of separation?

    **Notes: August 2020**

4. Have you already created an account on VA.gov?

    **Notes:** Have account uses frequently \
a. Have you used Login.gov or ID.me or another system like DS Logon to verify your identity?


    **Notes: Usually us ds login and us ID.me more than anything**

5. If you can recall, what were your first impressions interacting with VA.gov?

	**Notes: Overall it was fine, don’t remember much it was during his out process and was on a lot of government websites at the same time it all blends**


---


### **Section 1 [Additional Background] - 10 minutes**

Moderator: Now I'm going to ask a few more questions specifically about your transition out of the military.

1. Can you tell me a little more about your separation or retirement process? \
a. Were you introduced to VA and any benefits during your separation process? \
b. [If Yes] Where did you learn about VA? \
c. What types of benefits did you learn about?

**Notes:**

* **He worked with the VA when he was enlisted processing paperwork**

* **GI Bill benefits stood out to him**

* **He is currently using education benefits**

* **Disability stood out to him**

During your transition process or post-separation, when did you first interact with VA? \
a. Can you tell me more about your interaction? (Was it digital, in-person, over the phone)? \
b. [If interaction was delayed or if they have not yet reached out] Can you tell me more about why you waited/are waiting to reach out to VA? \
c. [If account creation was delayed] Can you tell me more about why you waited/are waiting to create an account and login to VA.gov?

**Notes:**

* **He helped with the VA scanning documents**

* **Most interactions have been online**

* **Some interactions when seen in person**

* **He created his account while he was still active duty because he knew it was beneficial**



2. [If they have an account on VA.gov] When you first created an account, did you have a specific goal in mind?   
  a. [If Yes] What was it?
  b. [If No] If you remember, can you share more about your recollections from exploring the site and if anything stood out to you?

**Notes:**

* **Main focus was disability he was told to prep that because of delay and back up**

* **Next was education**

3. What, if anything, could have improved the transition process for you?

**Notes:**

* **Because of his job position he had a rougher transition**

* **The position he had he needed a replacement to fill it so it was a little more involved**


---


### **Section 2: [My VA: LOA1 Message] - 10 minutes**


#### **Review**

Moderator: Now I’d like you to take a moment to review this page. It is a prototype, so in case something doesn’t work like it might on a real site, just go ahead and share with us how you think it should work.

Please take as long as you’d like to read and explore. If you’re comfortable, I’d love to hear you “think out loud” as you go and share any thoughts. Remember, there are no wrong answers and I will not be offended by anything you share.

Questions:

1. Does this page look familiar to you? [If Yes] How often have you used or visited this page?
2. What, if anything, about this page stands out to you?
3. What were you hoping to find here?
4. Is the information provided what you expected to see here? Why or why not?
5. What do you imagine this page is used for?
6. Is there anything here you don’t see that you would find valuable?

**Notes:**

* **Looks like the VA site as it stands now**

* **He can’t really tell a difference**

* **This page looks similar to his page but doesn’t have his claims**

* **He visits my VA a couple times a month**

* **He has a claim that has been going a month**

* **He looks at payment history for payments to schools**

* **Has to verify school everytime a month**

* **Likes the big blocks that stand out more because it stands out more**

* **He is used to using now, it was confusing at first**

* **There is a lot of down time things are down for maintenance**

* **The page is what he would expect because it is what he is used to**

* **He wishes there were more quicklinks on the page**

* **Would like the status of his claim**

* **Would like to know if he is getting payments**

* **He wants to make sure the benefits were disbursed correctly**

* **He would look for a drop down on this page to tell him what he needs to do next**

* **He was thinking about his current experience and didn’t click verify**

* **Was prompted by moderator**


#### **Task**

Moderator: Now that you’ve taken a look at the page, what would you do from here?

_If the participant would like to verify, tell them to go ahead and do so and encourage them to continue through the simulated "verification" screens, then move on to Section 3 questions. If the participant clicks on the other links, ask them “Where would you expect that link to go?”_


---


### **Section 3: [LOA3 Task List] - 10 minutes**

#### **Review**

_If the user did not attempt to verify:_
_Moderator: Now we’re going to pretend that you’ve gone through the identity verification process that was called out by the green box. Go ahead and click on the “Verify your identity” link.

_Encourage participant to continue through the simulated "verification" screens_

_If the participant has already ‘verified’ as part of the previous section, move on to probing questions._

Questions:

1. What, if anything, about this page stands out to you now?
2. Is there anything different that you notice about this page?
3. Do you have any thoughts on the content and instructions on this page?
4. Is there anything here you don’t see that you would find valuable?

**Notes:**

* **Looks like last page without the boxes**

* **He talked about how this page is about “Finishing off your profile”**

* **He would Add contact information and review notifications**

#### **Task**

Moderator: Now that you’ve taken a look at the page, what would you do from here?

_If the participant would like to add their contact info, tell them to go ahead and do so, then move on to Section 4. If the participant clicks on a different link on My VA or the second task ask them, “Where would you expect that link to go?”_


---


### **Section 4: [[Profile Completion](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/blob/master/products/identity-personalization/profile/profile-completion/discovery-research/conversation-guide.md)] - 15-20 minutes**

#### **Review - Entry Point**

_If the participant has not yet moved to add their contact info, prompt them to click the “Add your contact information link” in the task list._
_Moderator: Now imagine this was your profile on the website, what would you do from here?

* _If participant says they’d click on the first task, tell them to go ahead_
* _If the participant says they’d click on the “Go to my Profile” link, tell them to go ahead_
* _If participant says anything else, ask why they would be interested in clicking on that thing, and then guide them to click on the alert_


#### **Task - Evaluate steps 0-2 [Add contact info page, add email, add phone] of the Profile Completion Flow**


_Note: Entry Point could be from Task List or from Profile Page_

Moderator: Go ahead and take a look at this page, and tell me what you make of it. Don’t click on anything yet, but I’m curious to know what you’d do from here.

_Depending on whether they entered via the “Profile” link or the task prompt, they might end up on Profile with the alert or the Add your Contact Information “pre-flow” page with instructions._

Questions for Profile page with Alert

1. Does this page look familiar to you? [if Yes] How often have you used or visited this page?
2. What, if anything about this page, stands out to you?
3. Based on what you see on this page, what might you do next and why?

_After the participant has time to review the page and the alert, prompt them to click on the “Add your contact information” link. If they express a desire to click on other Profile components, ask them why and what they would expect to happen._

**Notes if PROFILE LINK was clicked:**
N/A

Questions for Add your Contact Information Page

1. Based on what you see and read here, are you required to provide this information?
2. What would you expect to happen if you clicked on “remind me later”?
3. When should “later” be?
4. How would you expect to be reminded?

**Notes if CONTACT INFO TASK LINK was clicked:**
* **He initially clicked past the add contact info page really quick**

* **He didn’t think that the information was required**

* **It doesn’t specify in the statement**

* **He would expect that there would be a popup or the alert and links on the page**

* **Wouldn’t send because they are asking for your contact info**

* **Would think maybe there would be something that changes colors when you log back in**

Moderator: Thanks for that. Now you can click on things as you normally would, and please remember to think out loud as much as possible so I can understand how this works for you.

_If needed, instruct participant to click on the “Add your contact information” action link_

_When participant is on step one - email address and step two - mobile phone:_ Moderator: Since this is a prototype, these fields won't actually allow information to be entered. You can just click on the field to populate text before moving on.

_Allow participant to go through the flow. As needed, ask:_


1. Is the information here required?
2. What would happen if you decided to continue without providing the information?
3. Do you know how much information you will need to enter or how many screens you’ll need to review for this task? (Trying to evaluate if they notice and understand Step X of X heading)

Things to note

* Does the participant believe the information is required to move to the next step?
* What did the participant expect from “remind me later”?
* Was anything unclear or confusing?

**NOTES:**

* **It seems like it is required at some point**

* **He expects that you will be blocked at some point**

* **He sees the number of steps at the top of the page**

* **He doesn’t think the email and phone would be saved before clicking “save and finish”**

* **In most cases he would go to profile and update his contact details**


#### **Task - Evaluate dismissing workflow and remind me later**

_Pause participant on step 3 - mailing address_

Moderator: I’m going to pause you here for just a moment to ask a few questions.

Questions:

1. If you changed your mind and wanted to get out of this workflow, would the email and phone number be saved to your profile?
2. On this step, what do you expect will happen if you choose “remind me later” instead of finishing?
3. If you wanted to return to a previous screen to change information that you’ve already entered, what would you do?

Things to note

* What did the participant expect from “remind me later”?
* Did they understand or expect that any information previously entered would be saved to their profile if they exited?

**Final confirmation page**

Moderator: Take a moment to review this page and the information provided. 

Questions:

1. After reviewing the information here, how do you expect VA to reach you with updates?
2. Where would you go from here?
3. If next time you log in, you wanted to review or edit the information you just entered, what would you do?
4. If you wanted to return to the My VA page, where you first saw the task list, what would you do?

Things to note:

* Is the participant curious about notification settings as it relates to what they just entered?
* Do they believe they will be prompted to go through the flow again?

**NOTES:**

* **Understands that he will be reached out to with the following information**   
* **This communicates how the VA will provide a helpful experience**   
* **He assumes the VA would reach out via email**   
* **It doesn’t explicitly say it**   
* **Maybe it would give you an option to choose (not sure where)**
* **He doesn’t expect this screen when he logged in so would expect to go to my profile**

**My VA Home page**

Moderator: Now we’re back to where we started.

Questions:

1. Take a look at this page again. Do you notice anything different about it, now that you have added your contact information?
2. Is there anything else you would do on this page?
3. Once you have completed the second task listed here, what do you expect would happen to the task list?

Things to note:

* Does the participant notice the status has changed?
* Are they interested in completing the second task?
* Do they expect the list to vanish once all tasks are done or re-populate with new tasks?

**NOTES:**

* **He notices the complete tag**
* **He would go to the review notifications settings**
* **He would expect the task list to disappear after he completes the tasks**


---

### **Post-Task Interview - 5 minutes**

Moderator: Thank you so much for the feedback so far! We're getting close to the end so I have just a few more questions for you about the overall experience today.

Questions:

1. If you had a magic wand and could fix anything about the overall process for new Veterans setting up their account with VA.gov, what would you do?
2. If you could wave your magic wand and change anything specifically about our process today, what would you do?
3. Is there anything we didn’t cover today that you’d like to share with me?
4. Any questions for me about what we covered today?

**NOTES:**

* **He thinks the VA website is pretty good**
* **Problems with downtime**
* **Confusing initially because it is a new website**
* **Most of the time you do have to call a real human to get what you need**
* **The website does cover the vast amount of things**
* **He might make the check box stand out a little more**
* **It currently looks like everything else on the page**


---


### **Thank-You and Closing - 2 minutes**

Moderator: We really appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us today. Your feedback is so helpful to us as we continue to work on the site and make sure it really works for Veterans. \
Lastly, Perigean will be sending you a thank you note with a little blurb that you can pass along to other Veterans you may know to provide them the chance to participate in future research studies.

Thank you so much again, and enjoy the rest of your day!


---


### **Emergency Exit**

[In the rare case of an emergency during a session, be prepared with an [emergency exit strategy](https://depo-platform-documentation.scrollhelp.site/research-design/Research-Safety-and-Emergency-Exit-Strategies.2143649793.html#ResearchSafetyandEmergencyExitStrategies-Sampleexitstrategies). Plan to include here at least one option, so its easy to find during a session. Take some time to practice so it feels more comfortable.]
