# **Notes, Veteran Onboarding**

# **P#7, 07/08/24, 1:00 p.m. EST**

Notetaker: Raquel

Summer 2024

### **Warm-up Questions (Optional) - 5 minutes**

Moderator: Before we look at the website, let’s start with a few warm-up questions so that we can get to know you.

1. What branch of the military did you serve in?

     **Notes: Army**

1. How long did you serve?

     **Notes: 5.5 years**

1. When did you separate or retire or are you in the process of separation?

   **Notes: 1980**

1. Have you already created an account on VA.gov?

     **Notes:** Yes  
a. Have you used Login.gov or ID.me or another system like DS Logon to verify your identity?

     **Notes: Not sure**

1. If you can recall, what were your first impressions interacting with VA.gov?

     **Notes: It was very confusing and she couldn’t get anywhere. She would give up if her phone or computer didn’t do everything for her**

     **There is too much too choose from.**

     **Information overload**

### **Section 1 \[Additional Background\] - 10 minutes**

Moderator: Now I'm going to ask a few more questions specifically about your transition out of the military.

1. Can you tell me a little more about your **separation or retirement process**?  
    a. Were you introduced to VA and any benefits during your separation process?  
    b. \[If Yes\] Where did you learn about VA?  
    c. What types of benefits did you learn about?

**Notes:**

- **Stationed in Italy**

- **Husband had terminal illness**

- **It wasn’t a normal separation process**

- **She didn’t get benefits initially**
- **She found things out after her daughter got in the military**
- **She was left out in the cold about her benefits**
- **It was very difficult for her to find out her information**
- **The benefits she knew about were from her husband**
- **Introduced to the VA benefits through her daughter who was in the military**
- **She left the country because she felt like she didn’t matter to her country**
- **Found out what she was entitled to health care visits at the VA hospital in 2010 when she was having some episodes and her daughter prompted her to go**
- **After that she had help to find her benefits**

During your transition process or post-separation, when did you first **interact with VA**?  
a. Can you tell me more about your interaction? (Was it digital, in-person, over the phone)?  
b. \[If interaction was delayed or if they have not yet reached out\] Can you tell me more about why you waited/are waiting to reach out to VA?  
c. \[If account creation was delayed\] Can you tell me more about why you waited/are waiting to create an account and login to VA.gov?

**Notes:**

- **Are their other health care benefits you were interested in?**

- **She found out she could get disability**

- **GEtting the paper forms was difficult they got lost**

- **She knew that she could get a VA home loan and she used that**

- **She knew that she could get her education totally paid for**

- **She didn’t know about the hospital benefits**

- **She gets information in her email about benefits**

- **Groups that are not associated with the military seem to be reaching out to her about benefits**

- **She didn’t know that she could use military flights**

1. \[If they have an account on VA.gov\] When you first created an account, did you have a **specific goal** in mind?  
    a. \[If Yes\] What was it?  
    b. \[If No\] If you remember, can you share more about your recollections from exploring the site and if anything stood out to you?

**Notes:**

1. What, if anything, could have improved the transition process for you?

**Notes:**

     **She would have liked pamphlets and stuff**

     **She would have liked books with details about what is offered**

### **Section 2: \[My VA: LOA1 Message\] - 10 minutes**

#### **Review**

Moderator: Now I’d like you to take a moment to review this page. It is a prototype, so in case something doesn’t work like it might on a real site, just go ahead and share with us how you think it should work.

Please take as long as you’d like to read and explore. If you’re comfortable, I’d love to hear you “think out loud” as you go and share any thoughts. Remember, there are no wrong answers and I will not be offended by anything you share.

Questions:

1. Does this page look familiar to you? \[If Yes\] How often have you used or visited this page?
2. What, if anything, about this page stands out to you?
3. What were you hoping to find here?
4. Is the information provided what you expected to see here? Why or why not?
5. What do you imagine this page is used for?
6. Is there anything here you don’t see that you would find valuable?

**Notes:**

- **She has done claims and appeals**
- **She doesn’t know what benefit application drafts is**
- **The one she has looks a little different than what she has**
- **Everything seems to be in one place which is great**
- **She likes to be able to click on what she needs to do**
- **She wants to know what her benefits, under that are all the benefits like health care Education and training, etc**
- **All she knew was that she would get help with schooling and help with housing**
- **“What you are looking for is benefits”**
- **“What the heck is claims and appeals”**
- **When she put her claims in she saw this but it didn’t look like this**
- **She is not sure how to get to this page**
- **She feels like people do not even know to VA.gov**
- **She feels like this page is good but it might not answer question and give you the run around**
- **The first thing she wants to know is what her benefits are and what she is entitled to**
- **When you find out about your benefits you think “I guess they do care about me”**
- **User did not say they would verify their identity**

#### **Task**

Moderator: Now that you’ve taken a look at the page, what would you do from here?

_If the participant would like to verify, tell them to go ahead and do so and encourage them to continue through the simulated "verification" screens, then move on to Section 3 questions. If the participant clicks on the other links, ask them “Where would you expect that link to go?”_

### **Section 3: \[LOA3 Task List\] - 10 minutes**

#### **Review**

_If the user did not attempt to verify:  
_Moderator: Now we’re going to pretend that you’ve gone through the identity verification process that was called out by the green box. Go ahead and click on the “Verify your identity” link.

_Encourage participant to continue through the simulated "verification" screens_

_If the participant has already ‘verified’ as part of the previous section, move on to probing questions._

Questions:

1. What, if anything, about this page stands out to you now?
2. Is there anything different that you notice about this page?
3. Do you have any thoughts on the content and instructions on this page?
4. Is there anything here you don’t see that you would find valuable?

**Notes:**

- **She went through a sign in process about a week ago**
- **She likes this page better because it starts “naming off things”**
- **She likes that it is starting to direct you to places**
- **Did not feel that the initial welcoming page was directing you somewhere**
- **“There are no instructions I would have to click on things in order to find out”**
- **Benefits should be something that should be there at the beginning**
- **I just want to see your benefits and then claims below that (health care, education, tax breaks)**
- **The benefits are the most important thing**
- **She would go under the benefits again and start looking for benefits**
- **Participant did not click “add contact info” needed to be guided**

#### **Task**

Moderator: Now that you’ve taken a look at the page, what would you do from here?

_If the participant would like to add their contact info, tell them to go ahead and do so, then move on to Section 4. If the participant clicks on a different link on My VA or the second task ask them, “Where would you expect that link to go?”_

### **Section 4: \[**[**Profile Completion**](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/blob/master/products/identity-personalization/profile/profile-completion/discovery-research/conversation-guide.md)**\] - 15-20 minutes**

#### **Review - Entry Point**

_If the participant has not yet moved to add their contact info, prompt them to click the “Add your contact information link” in the task list.  
_Moderator: Now imagine this was your profile on the website, what would you do from here?

- _If participant says they’d click on the first task, tell them to go ahead_
- _If the participant says they’d click on the “Go to my Profile” link, tell them to go ahead_
- _If participant says anything else, ask why they would be interested in clicking on that thing, and then guide them to click on the alert_

#### **Task - Evaluate steps 0-2 \[Add contact info page, add email, add phone\] of the Profile Completion Flow**

#### **Note: Entry Point could be from Task List or from Profile Page**

Moderator: Go ahead and take a look at this page, and tell me what you make of it. Don’t click on anything yet, but I’m curious to know what you’d do from here.

**Notes:**

_Depending on whether they entered via the “Profile” link or the task prompt, they might end up on Profile with the alert or the Add your Contact Information “pre-flow” page with instructions._

Questions for Profile page with Alert

1. Does this page look familiar to you? \[if Yes\] How often have you used or visited this page?
2. What, if anything about this page, stands out to you?
3. Based on what you see on this page, what might you do next and why?

_After the participant has time to review the page and the alert, prompt them to click on the “Add your contact information” link. If they express a desire to click on other Profile components, ask them why and what they would expect to happen._

**Notes if PROFILE LINK was clicked:**

Questions for Add your Contact Information Page

1. Based on what you see and read here, are you required to provide this information?
2. What would you expect to happen if you clicked on “remind me later”?
3. When should “later” be?
4. How would you expect to be reminded?

**Notes if CONTACT INFO TASK LINK was clicked:**

- Information about where you live and your phone number are on a card that the VA gives you
- As a veteran you need a card and that has information
- She was not clear about how the info on the website was different that other info the government has about her
- If she didn’t fill out anything she doesn’t see how she can be reminded later
- If we do not have information about her how can we remind her
- She has no idea what “later” means
- She would give her information and would not need to worry about being reminded
- She needs to know things so she would give her information
- Reminding later seems strange
- If she didn’t click continue nothing would happen, you would be stuck on the page
- She doesn’t think the information would be saved if she didn’t click save and finish
- To get to previous step she would click the back button
- She expects the VA to reach her with the information she provided
- She would want the VA’s phone number in her phone if she does not know who she is then she would not answer
- She would like to tell them how to contact her
- She would review profile and then go back to “MyVA”
- In the future she would come back to this page and click the go to profile button

Moderator: Thanks for that. Now you can click on things as you normally would, and please remember to think out loud as much as possible so I can understand how this works for you.

_If needed, instruct participant to click on the “Add your contact information” action link_

_  
When participant is on step one - email address and step two - mobile phone:_ Moderator: Since this is a prototype, these fields won't actually allow information to be entered. You can just click on the field to populate text before moving on.

_Allow participant to go through the flow. As needed, ask:_

1. Is the information here required?
2. What would happen if you decided to continue without providing the information?
3. Do you know how much information you will need to enter or how many screens you’ll need to review for this task? (Trying to evaluate if they notice and understand Step X of X heading)

Things to note

- Does the participant believe the information is required to move to the next step?
- What did the participant expect from “remind me later”?
- Was anything unclear or confusing?

**NOTES:**

#### **Task - Evaluate dismissing workflow and remind me later**

_Pause participant on step 3 - mailing address_

Moderator: I’m going to pause you here for just a moment to ask a few questions.

Questions:

1. If you changed your mind and wanted to get out of this workflow, would the email and phone number be saved to your profile?
2. On this step, what do you expect will happen if you choose “remind me later” instead of finishing?
3. If you wanted to return to a previous screen to change information that you’ve already entered, what would you do?

Things to note

- What did the participant expect from “remind me later”?
- Did they understand or expect that any information previously entered would be saved to their profile if they exited?

**NOTES:**

Final confirmation page

Moderator: Take a moment to review this page and the information provided.

Questions:

1. After reviewing the information here, how do you expect VA to reach you with updates?
2. Where would you go from here?
3. If next time you log in, you wanted to review or edit the information you just entered, what would you do?
4. If you wanted to return to the My VA page, where you first saw the task list, what would you do?

Things to note:

- Is the participant curious about notification settings as it relates to what they just entered?
- Do they believe they will be prompted to go through the flow again?

**NOTES:**

- She would review her notification settings to let them know how she wants to be contacted
- She would then go through her benefits to see what was there
- She would expect the task list to just stay there “because what else is it supposed to do”

My VA Home page

Moderator: Now we’re back to where we started.

Questions:

1. Take a look at this page again. Do you notice anything different about it, now that you have added your contact information?
2. Is there anything else you would do on this page?
3. Once you have completed the second task listed here, what do you expect would happen to the task list?

Things to note:

- Does the participant notice the status has changed?
- Are they interested in completing the second task?
- Do they expect the list to vanish once all tasks are done or re-populate with new tasks?

**NOTES:**

### **Post-Task Interview - 5 minutes**

Moderator: Thank you so much for the feedback so far! We're getting close to the end so I have just a few more questions for you about the overall experience today.

Questions:

1. If you had a magic wand and could fix anything about the overall process for new Veterans setting up their account with VA.gov, what would you do?
2. If you could wave your magic wand and change anything specifically about our process today, what would you do?
3. Is there anything we didn’t cover today that you’d like to share with me?
4. Any questions for me about what we covered today?

**NOTES:**

**Before they got out to go through the process while they are in service and then give booklets**

**She would like to have more information there and available before you get out**

### **Thank-You and Closing - 2 minutes**

Moderator: We really appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us today. Your feedback is so helpful to us as we continue to work on the site and make sure it really works for Veterans.  
Lastly, Perigean will be sending you a thank you note with a little blurb that you can pass along to other Veterans you may know to provide them the chance to participate in future research studies.

Thank you so much again, and enjoy the rest of your day!

### **Emergency Exit**

\[In the rare case of an emergency during a session, be prepared with an [emergency exit strategy](https://depo-platform-documentation.scrollhelp.site/research-design/Research-Safety-and-Emergency-Exit-Strategies.2143649793.html#ResearchSafetyandEmergencyExitStrategies-Sampleexitstrategies). Plan to include here at least one option, so its easy to find during a session. Take some time to practice so it feels more comfortable.\]

Final thoughts:

- Benefits most important
- Thinks it would be beneficial to have VA.gov pushed to them
- Wants more control over how she is notified
- How many veterans do we think could be benefiting but are not
