# **Notes, Veteran Onboarding**

# **P#8, 07/08/24, 3:00 p.m. EST**

Notetaker: Raquel

Summer 2024

### **Warm-up Questions (Optional) - 5 minutes**

Moderator: Before we look at the website, let’s start with a few warm-up questions so that we can get to know you.

1. What branch of the military did you serve in?
    1. **Notes: US Army national Guard**
2. How long did you serve?
    1. **Notes: 6 years**
3. When did you separate or retire or are you in the process of separation?
    1. **Notes: Oct 2020**
4. Have you already created an account on VA.gov?
    1. **Notes: Yes**
5. Have you used Login.gov or ID.me or another system like DS Logon to verify your identity?
    1. **Notes: Login.gov he believes**
6. If you can recall, what were your first impressions interacting with VA.gov?
    1. **Notes: Thought it was pretty simple**
    2. **Included education benefits and health benefits that was what he was looking for**
    3. **That is what he dedicated time to**

### **Section 1 \[Additional Background\] - 10 minutes**

Moderator: Now I'm going to ask a few more questions specifically about your transition out of the military.

1. Can you tell me a little more about your **separation or retirement process**?  
    a. Were you introduced to VA and any benefits during your separation process?  
    b. \[If Yes\] Where did you learn about VA?  
    c. What types of benefits did you learn about?

**Notes:**

- **He lead the charge to get access to benefits**
- **Separation was quick and easy process**
- **Was given records**
- **Took it on himself to understand what was available to him**
- **He wasn’t looking for anything in particular education in particular**
- **Looked into again when he moved in the last 6 months**
- **He found offices and groups to help him with education and health benefits**
- **VA.gov helped him get to the right people to answer the right questions**
- **Showed him the most local offices in his zip code**
- **Helped him find in state reps**
- **There was probably leadership that told him to go to VA.gov**
- **People who were honorably discharged there is help**
- **Help navigating the website was something that he did on his own**

1. During your transition process or post-separation, when did you first **interact with VA**?
    1. Can you tell me more about your interaction? (Was it digital, in-person, over the phone)?
    2. \[If interaction was delayed or if they have not yet reached out\] Can you tell me more about why you waited/are waiting to reach out to VA?
    3. \[If account creation was delayed\] Can you tell me more about why you waited/are waiting to create an account and login to VA.gov?

**Notes:**

- **He called after finding reps on website**
- **He didn’t have conversations**
- **He was 22 or 23 when honorably discharged he didn’t look into benefits much**
- **Recently he was informed about what benefits are really available to him**
- **His benefits should have been used when he was in the national guard he didn’t know that he would have used them then if he had known**

1. \[If they have an account on VA.gov\] When you first created an account, did you have a **specific goal** in mind?
    1. \[If Yes\] What was it?
    2. \[If No\] If you remember, can you share more about your recollections from exploring the site and if anything stood out to you?

**Notes:**

- **He believes he always have his account set up**
- **He had to reset his password because it had been a few years since he had logged in**
- **He created an account to have it**
- **He was going to try to get his veterans ID never really got around to it**
- **He wanted to find a local office when creating an account**
- **He wanted to find out about health care**

1. What, if anything, could have improved the transition process for you?

**Notes:**

- **He would have liked if he had been more proactive**
- **He wishes he would have asked the right questions**
- **He needed to know the right question to ask to get the assistance he needed**

### **Section 2: \[My VA: LOA1 Message\] - 10 minutes**

#### **Review**

Moderator: Now I’d like you to take a moment to review this page. It is a prototype, so in case something doesn’t work like it might on a real site, just go ahead and share with us how you think it should work.

Please take as long as you’d like to read and explore. If you’re comfortable, I’d love to hear you “think out loud” as you go and share any thoughts. Remember, there are no wrong answers and I will not be offended by anything you share.

Questions:

1. Does this page look familiar to you? \[If Yes\] How often have you used or visited this page?
2. What, if anything, about this page stands out to you?
3. What were you hoping to find here?
4. Is the information provided what you expected to see here? Why or why not?
5. What do you imagine this page is used for?
6. Is there anything here you don’t see that you would find valuable?

**Notes:**

- **Clicked verify your identity right away**
- **He felt like the page looked familiar**
- **He had talked to reps and they had told him that you could go online and file claims**
- **He loves that it is simple and straightforward**
- **It gets into what veterans are first told to start with**
- **It gets into the two major components healthcare and education**
- **He likes having the ability to file a claim right away**
- **This is what he expected to see because he wanted to see education benefits and health benefits**
- **He thinks My HealtheVet would take him to health care benefits**
- **He was trying to see what it would let him click on he looked for the little hand**
- **He wanted to click on education and training first if it would have been available to click on**
- **Maybe also “Learn more about getting started with VA” aso one of the first things to click on**

#### **Task**

Moderator: Now that you’ve taken a look at the page, what would you do from here?

_If the participant would like to verify, tell them to go ahead and do so and encourage them to continue through the simulated "verification" screens, then move on to Section 3 questions. If the participant clicks on the other links, ask them “Where would you expect that link to go?”_

### **Section 3: \[LOA3 Task List\] - 10 minutes**

#### **Review**

_If the user did not attempt to verify:  
_Moderator: Now we’re going to pretend that you’ve gone through the identity verification process that was called out by the green box. Go ahead and click on the “Verify your identity” link.

_Encourage participant to continue through the simulated "verification" screens_

_If the participant has already ‘verified’ as part of the previous section, move on to probing questions._

Questions:

1. What, if anything, about this page stands out to you now?
2. Is there anything different that you notice about this page?
3. Do you have any thoughts on the content and instructions on this page?
4. Is there anything here you don’t see that you would find valuable?

**Notes:**

- **He would think to give (and update) the most up to date contact information**
- **Thinks the contact information would apply to all of his data as the souce of truth.**
- **When he went to an office they would use this new contact information**
- **His first instinct would be to update the information and then go through his benefits**
- **Doesn’t feel like anything is missing**

#### **Task**

Moderator: Now that you’ve taken a look at the page, what would you do from here?

_If the participant would like to add their contact info, tell them to go ahead and do so, then move on to Section 4. If the participant clicks on a different link on My VA or the second task ask them, “Where would you expect that link to go?”_

### **Section 4: \[**[**Profile Completion**](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/blob/master/products/identity-personalization/profile/profile-completion/discovery-research/conversation-guide.md)**\] - 15-20 minutes**

#### **Review - Entry Point**

_If the participant has not yet moved to add their contact info, prompt them to click the “Add your contact information link” in the task list.  
_Moderator: Now imagine this was your profile on the website, what would you do from here?

- _If participant says they’d click on the first task, tell them to go ahead_
- _If the participant says they’d click on the “Go to my Profile” link, tell them to go ahead_
- _If participant says anything else, ask why they would be interested in clicking on that thing, and then guide them to click on the alert_

#### **Task - Evaluate steps 0-2 \[Add contact info page, add email, add phone\] of the Profile Completion Flow**

#### **Note: Entry Point could be from Task List or from Profile Page**

Moderator: Go ahead and take a look at this page, and tell me what you make of it. Don’t click on anything yet, but I’m curious to know what you’d do from here.

**Notes:**

_Depending on whether they entered via the “Profile” link or the task prompt, they might end up on Profile with the alert or the Add your Contact Information “pre-flow” page with instructions._

Questions for Profile page with Alert

1. Does this page look familiar to you? \[if Yes\] How often have you used or visited this page?
2. What, if anything about this page, stands out to you?
3. Based on what you see on this page, what might you do next and why?

_After the participant has time to review the page and the alert, prompt them to click on the “Add your contact information” link. If they express a desire to click on other Profile components, ask them why and what they would expect to happen._

**Notes if PROFILE LINK was clicked:**

Questions for Add your Contact Information Page

1. Based on what you see and read here, are you required to provide this information?
2. What would you expect to happen if you clicked on “remind me later”?
3. When should “later” be?
4. How would you expect to be reminded?

**Notes if CONTACT INFO TASK LINK was clicked:**

- He wants to say he is required but maybe not
- He would think that people need to mail paperwork to you so the contact info is needed to be able to help you
- He thinks it should be required even if it is not legally required

Moderator: Thanks for that. Now you can click on things as you normally would, and please remember to think out loud as much as possible so I can understand how this works for you.

_If needed, instruct participant to click on the “Add your contact information” action link_

_  
When participant is on step one - email address and step two - mobile phone:_ Moderator: Since this is a prototype, these fields won't actually allow information to be entered. You can just click on the field to populate text before moving on.

_Allow participant to go through the flow. As needed, ask:_

1. Is the information here required?
2. What would happen if you decided to continue without providing the information?
3. Do you know how much information you will need to enter or how many screens you’ll need to review for this task? (Trying to evaluate if they notice and understand Step X of X heading)

Things to note

- Does the participant believe the information is required to move to the next step?
- What did the participant expect from “remind me later”?
- Was anything unclear or confusing?

**NOTES:**

#### **Task - Evaluate dismissing workflow and remind me later**

_Pause participant on step 3 - mailing address_

Moderator: I’m going to pause you here for just a moment to ask a few questions.

Questions:

1. If you changed your mind and wanted to get out of this workflow, would the email and phone number be saved to your profile?
2. On this step, what do you expect will happen if you choose “remind me later” instead of finishing?
3. If you wanted to return to a previous screen to change information that you’ve already entered, what would you do?

Things to note

- What did the participant expect from “remind me later”?
- Did they understand or expect that any information previously entered would be saved to their profile if they exited?

**NOTES:**

**Having an email associated with your ID would allow them to remind you**

**Later would be within 48 hours**

**He would expect to be reminded by email or by phone call or voice mail**

**Text would work as well**

**He believes information to enter phone number is required**

**He believes there would be an error message that pops up red if he doesn’t enter the information**

**He wouldn’t be able to get to the next screen if it isn’t input**

**He would expect three pages to complete the task**

- **He would maybe not expect the information to be saved to his profile if he did not click “save and finish”**
- **It might be annoying to re add the info if you got logged out but it wouldn't be bad**
- **Might expect the information to be saved if you click exit and remind later. Not confident in that though**
- **Would click on “My Profile” if he needed to edit any of his information**
- **Might call if the My Profile didn’t work**

Final confirmation page

Moderator: Take a moment to review this page and the information provided.

Questions:

1. After reviewing the information here, how do you expect VA to reach you with updates?
2. Where would you go from here?
3. If next time you log in, you wanted to review or edit the information you just entered, what would you do?
4. If you wanted to return to the My VA page, where you first saw the task list, what would you do?

Things to note:

- Is the participant curious about notification settings as it relates to what they just entered?
- Do they believe they will be prompted to go through the flow again?

**NOTES:**

- He thinks this page tells why it is important to have your information updated
- This page shows how you will receive help and guidance to the next phase of civilian life
- This page is the important one of this study because it shows why the contact information is important
- He expects a way to tell the VA how he wants to be contacted
- He knows what he regularly checks
- Spam gets really bad and people don’t pick up the phone if they don’t know the phone number
- He would probably just go back to MyVA
- He would go to his profile if he would want to edit it
- If he was on the page and wanted to review the information then he would click the button to review the information on the page

My VA Home page

Moderator: Now we’re back to where we started.

Questions:

1. Take a look at this page again. Do you notice anything different about it, now that you have added your contact information?
2. Is there anything else you would do on this page?
3. Once you have completed the second task listed here, what do you expect would happen to the task list?

Things to note:

- Does the participant notice the status has changed?
- Are they interested in completing the second task?
- Do they expect the list to vanish once all tasks are done or re-populate with new tasks?

**NOTES:**

- He noticed the task list showed not started
- He would think that the notifications box would disappear after he completed them

### **Post-Task Interview - 5 minutes**

Moderator: Thank you so much for the feedback so far! We're getting close to the end so I have just a few more questions for you about the overall experience today.

Questions:

1. If you had a magic wand and could fix anything about the overall process for new Veterans setting up their account with VA.gov, what would you do?
2. If you could wave your magic wand and change anything specifically about our process today, what would you do?
3. Is there anything we didn’t cover today that you’d like to share with me?
4. Any questions for me about what we covered today?

**NOTES:**

- **Put review notification setting with the review contact info**
- **He would say preferred contact method and put it under one tab not a separate action**
- **He doesn’t think there should be too many changes**
- **“Updating your contact information is how you get your help”**

### **Thank-You and Closing - 2 minutes**

Moderator: We really appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us today. Your feedback is so helpful to us as we continue to work on the site and make sure it really works for Veterans.  
Lastly, Perigean will be sending you a thank you note with a little blurb that you can pass along to other Veterans you may know to provide them the chance to participate in future research studies.

Thank you so much again, and enjoy the rest of your day!

### **Emergency Exit**

\[In the rare case of an emergency during a session, be prepared with an [emergency exit strategy](https://depo-platform-documentation.scrollhelp.site/research-design/Research-Safety-and-Emergency-Exit-Strategies.2143649793.html#ResearchSafetyandEmergencyExitStrategies-Sampleexitstrategies). Plan to include here at least one option, so its easy to find during a session. Take some time to practice so it feels more comfortable.\]

Debrief notes:

- Give me the reason why up front
- Let me tell you how I want to be contacted right away
- Did not seem to really care about the Welcome message he maybe would have clicked the learn more
- He had the assumption that his profile information would become everything would go to offices and everywhere
- We might want to add clarity on what the information would be used for
- Might want to have a confirmation of what information they entered
- Would be good to talk to profile team about talking about notification settings
- Would be good to add emergency contact at some point
