# Contact Service Representative Interview: Curt
May 11, 2020<br>
**Rebecca Walsh & Riley Orr**

**Can you tell me about your role?**<br>
We receive calls from veterans and dependents setting up payment plans. Well, I think you understand most of it. Primarily it’s through phone contacts. We receive calls. There is some callbacks in some cases. We’re doing various other things correcting refunds because we can refund money. We do refunds, we assist them in the waiver process. Primarily it’s getting calls from the veterans and working them through the issue trying to find the best solution for them. We don’t necessarily see the debt letters, we see dates when they’re issued. Can determine where they’re at in the collection cycle based on the dates. We react to the timing of the letters being sent. 

**You mentioned, this is the first time I’m hearing of the refunds. Can you tell me a little bit about that?**<br>
So, what often happens when a debt is created is the letters go out and either veterans don’t see the letters, go to old addresses, so the the cycle of collections starts and often the cycle might collect a whole benefit check and there’s a process where they can request refunds to get set up on payment plans. We actually work with them after the fact to set up refunds and a payment plan. We see this more in the education world, but also on the compensation side because they change addresses and don’t update them so especially on the education side veterans get debt after the term because they’ve moved. That’s a big issue. We work with them to try to correct things in the system. 

**Division?**<br>
Veteran Experience. Phone unit
Veteran experience is phones. Veteran Care Division is the correspondence. They receive the requests, so they’re not necessarily dealing with veterans on the phone. They deal with paperwork sent in.

**How many veterans do you assist a day?**<br>
On a normal day when I’m just doing calls, it can be 30-50. 

**That’s the exact number given earlier.**<br>
It really depends. There’s real busy times and at times the type of calls take longer. On average it’s 30-50 range. 

**You handle the education, compensation, loan guarantee. Are there others?**<br>
Comp and pension, education, loan guarantee… in education there’s multiple types. That pretty much covers it. There’s some medical ones that are one-off that we rarely see. There’s a few smaller categories. I almost never see them. We have some burial debts coming through comp and pen side also. Trying to think what else… I mean primarily the way to picture it is: comp and pension side and education side. Within either of those two, there’s a variety of different type debts. The home loan ones show up in the compensation side. 

**Would it be a tall ask to get details of the different types under education and comp + pension?**<br>
The ones on the top of my head: general pension, overpayment of pension, overpayment of compensation, burial debts (compensation), rehab debts (compensation), old education - participant cut out (compensation). Those are the compensation and pension. On the education side: post-9/11 GI bill, Chapter 35 dependent education, Chapter 30 Montgomery Bill, Chapter 1606 and 1607 education debt, an older Chapter 30-something debt. 

**For all these variations of education, they all get the same types of letters?**<br>
Yes, they’re all kind of the same letter. For all of them, it’s the same letter with the terminology changed if it’s compensation or pension. 

**So, out of these different types of calls, would you be able to give a general percentage to how many you deal with?**<br> 
It’s probably close to that (50/50). There are months where you get more education or more comp + pension. It seems about half and half is my feel of it. 

**Can you give a loose transcript of what a call might look like?**<br>
They call into us and we introduce ourselves and then we have to verify identity. We ask them to verify 4 pieces of criteria: name, social security/file number (generally those are the same. For most people file number is social security number), address, dob, and a phone number in case we get disconnected, some of the phone representatives also ask them to verify branch of service. So we verify their identity. If we can’t, it is possible the person who has the debt has filled in a third party authorization form to give someone else authorization to speak on their behalf. We would have to find that to authorize. We also have the ability to take payments from someone that doesn’t verify identity but they can make payment on the account - we ask them to verify the amount on the account. After we verify identity we ask how we can assist them and they explain the situation while we look at the files, and then we assist them either to explain why the debt was created - we can go look at the letters sent out by the organization that made the debt to explain why it was created - we can assist them with what’s happened in the collection process, set up payment plans, refund and payment plan, especially with COVID now we’re doing a lot more in that area. We can also assist them in the waiver process. In general, we try to solve whatever problem they’re calling about related to that debt. If we don’t have a debt we try to find out who they’re trying to contact if they’re in the wrong location. 

**Can I ask what systems you’re looking in to find info about the debts?**<br>
Initially I pull up CAROLS. I also pull up for every account Share which is more comp and pension, VBM which is more for education. If I need to pull more information I look at VAS (compensation), VBMS (notification letters especially on comp + pen side), LTS (bulk of post-9/11 education debt).

**Can you tell me what you get from each of these systems?**<br>
CAROLS is where we have the debt. We verify information from that system. It’s possible that we don’t have all the information such as DOB. May have to look into Share to get that… or a phone number might come from Share or one of the education systems. Primarily the information we’re verifying is already in CAROLS. If the address we have is not correct, if they can verify any of those addresses then we get it updated to the correct address across the system. The address in CAROLS may not match their current address, so when we do the verification they may have already contacted the benefits office and may have the updated address there so we will update our system to match. They don’t update automatically. Primarily CAROLS, but we rely on the others to get the information verified and updated correctly.

**Verifying their identity?**<br>
Right. We’re verifying DOB which we may not have correctly so we’ll go to a different system. Address, sometimes none of our addresses and as long as they can verify an old address we will update it. Phone we will verify phone number and ask where they’re calling from. And if we’re not confident that we’ve not verified everything then we will ask for branch of service which we get from Share. 

**The systems that you’re doing all that in..**<br>
Share, CAROLS, and VBM. 

**What is BAS?**<br>
BAS is another comp and pension that we use to verify information once to know about payments and money getting applied. 

**What do you mean by money being applied?**<br>
Often when they call often what’s happened is money from their benefits is getting applied to their debt. So they may have money that got applied automatically from benefits, education, or compensation towards the debt and we may need to research to see what kind of money it is. Retroactive money where they’re getting an award from a prior month of dependents or service rating increased, we need to determine where the money’s coming from already that’s being applied to a debt to determine what to do going forward. 

**So, VBMS and LTS?**<br>
LTS is the Chapter 33 system and Chapter 33 is the post-9/11 GI bill. The bulk of our education debts are Chapter 33. 90%. LTS is a system that has the record of certifications they’re receiving from the school. School sends in certifications that are processed to issue benefits to veteran or dependent. LTS has a record of all that information. So, we often have to refer to that system to look at those letters. Refer to that system to verify entitlement they have remaining. We determine if we can do refunds, partial refunds applied in order to set up correct payment plan… so that’s LTS. All the details explaining how they’re certified, housing money, tuition money, all details are in there. 

**Are those letters that you can see in LTS the original letters sent out from the education regional office or Debt Management?**<br>
These are the original letters from the education RO who creates the debt. 
VBMS is kind of similar in a little way on the compensation + pension side in that we go out there to find the letters the regional office creates for compensation + pension. We go there to get that type of information. That’s also where the Debt Management Center letters end up. I don’t know if they’re all there, but initial ones go there. We also look at other information in there. There’s a lot of information related to waiver decisions… information about org changes such as benefit changes because of changes in dependents… it’s a good reference for information but mostly the location to go for original letters. 

**Do you find that it’s common for a veteran to have multiple types of debt?**<br>
Yeah, right. Very often, a veteran will have both a compensation and an education debt. 

**Procedural difference?**<br>
No, you just handle it all in the call. We handle all the debts kind of in the same fashion. We determine if payment plans are required, benefits they have, setting up different payment plans based on different benefits they’re receiving, there’s a variety of payment plans depending on if we’re subbing it up over the phone or if they sent in a form. Procedurally we handle them all the same, but depending on the type of debts there’s different options to do different things. An example: if they’re only receiving education benefits for education debts then we will only set up payment plans for those and base it on remaining entitlement they have for the benefit. You have a limit on the months that the payment plan can be spread over based on entitlement. A lot of the other education debts are spread over the term that they’re currently in. Now, for the Chapter 33 debts, we can also.. well for all education debts, we can set up payment plans out of their disability benefits. And then we’re not limited to t he amount of entitlement, it can be spread further based o nit they send a financial status report. In that case, we’re subbing out payments from disability benefits towards their education debts and they can be set up for periods of 12 months without paperwork or greater than 12 months with paperwork. Comp and Pension cannot use education benefits. I don’t want to get too deep in all the payment plan options. There are a lot of different options. 

**Very personal**<br>
Right, every situation is unique and we deal with each one. 

**We’ve glanced over each of the different debt letter types - what are the problems you see with education?**<br>
Debt letters get created because, generally, a student (veteran or dependent) using the benefit is certified through schools to use that benefit. When they get certified, the school sends information about the classes they can take and the education office calculates benefit money based on that. If nothing changes, there would be no debt. Student would complete classes. In the imperfect world, something has gone wrong. The school sent in something incorrectly or the student is making a change after they got certified. They sign up for 12 credits of classes and 1 week in they drop a class and have 9 credits; the school needs to send in that change to be processed and determine they’ve been overpaid. the letter goes out to the student to the address that the education office has on file informing them that there was a change to their certification and they’ve been overpaid X amount of money for books, housing, and tuition. They get the letter, or don’t, and the debt gets sent over to our office and we send a letter out approximately a month later informing them of the debt and asking them to contact us to set up a payment plan. There can be a myriad of reasons going back years for these debts. We start the collection process with the address on record where the debt was created. We attempt to correct addresses when mail is returned but it’s a long process. 

**In your day to day when you’re getting calls about these education debts, what sort of confusion or questions do you see from veterans?**<br>
Well, I mean there’s honestly just a myriad of things. Some examples: not aware of the debt, may not have received notification letters, often they don’t agree with the debt, they don’t understand how the debt got created, the school has sent something in incorrectly, they agree with the debt and all their benefit got applied to the debt so we need to go over options moving forward, they might disagree so we have to explain that process, they may have mitigating circumstances to request waiver. It’s just virtually anything you could think of. Issues with entitlement, issues where someone has taken away their entitlement or lost the entitlement. You see people like children with huge debt created because their sponsor did not complete the requirements. You have people that just don’t understand why a debt is created. They don’t understand the whole benefit process and how that works. Even when changes are made, they have to pay back the tuition but they have to get the money from the school but they have difficulty getting money back from the school. It’s virtually any scenario you can think of. 

**Have you noticed any interest in seeing these letters online?**<br>
Certainly they want to be able to have better access to these letters. Us mailing out these letters, especially in education with students moving around a lot, seems like an ancient way of doing it when students do so much online. They should either receive them online or they all have email addresses where they get notifications about their benefits. They needs to be more of an attempt to get these notification letters out rather than mailing to some address on file. Often they aren’t even aware of that address. 

**Same set of questions compensation and pension**<br>
There are a myriad of reasons for compensation and pension. Basic things: Any time you have a dependent change. If you’re not reporting that dependent change to the benefits office, let’s say you get divorced, if they don’t get notified of that… it’s calculated on a rating you have and any dependents you have.. so if you get extra money for a spouse you no longer have then they continue to make that payment until they’re aware. That can happen for many months of years. They retroactively remove the dependent. Similar thing with other dependents like children. Typically, children come off the reward automatically. If that doesn’t happen timely it creates debts. Every 10 years the benefits office sends out letters verifying dependents. These debts can be created going back 10 years. There can be debts for.. they might be issued a retro payment for some reason and ask for a refund. So, they may have gotten issued money incorrectly so then they’re asked to pay that back. There can be debts created for people doing active duty and drill. Units have to report active duty and drill time, VA does not allow being paid benefits at the same time so they calculate overpayment which causes a debt. There could be changes to the rating where they get a rating reduced retroactively resulting in a debt. On the pension side, pensions are income-based so if you’re getting a pension and you sign up for social security and don’t inform the VA then they find out you’re getting social security then you’re not getting overpaid. It’s a wide variety of things. 

**For these comp and pension debt letters, we’ve gone over the various reasons… what problems do you see arise.. what are people concerned about?**<br>
Well, often they’ll say they informed the VA of that change a while ago and because it takes months to process changes they’ve been getting a debt when they think they’ve been informing the VA the whole time. Sometimes they don’t agree with the debt, sometimes the number of days reported for drilling or active duty isn’t correct. Sometimes they’re no longer getting the benefit. If a veteran gets incarcerated, their pay is reduced to 10% so if they don’t hear about it for months they will owe back everything except the 10% rate. If you pass away on the 29th of the month, you don’t get the money for that whole month. So we deal with that whole process when dependents have passed away. There’s many different things. Burial benefits have to be paid back if they’ve never sent in the paperwork for the burial. 

**Do you get common complaints about the letters themselves?**<br>
In general, I don’t think any veterans think any of the letters are clear. I don’t think they read any of it. It’s hard to gauge. Generally, I mean, we get calls after the debts are created. In the very first letter they got from the benefits office it tells you what to do with the debt. 99% have probably never read through the letter or understand what to do when they disagree until the money starts coming out of their benefit or they get the letter from us. Letters are not clear or not read. Hard to tell. But they’re probably definitely both of those. 

**Can you tell me about loan guarantee? Any problems?**<br>
So, I don’t even know if I’ve seen the letters that go out on those. We deal with calls about the loan guarantee debts and it’s a pretty complicated area. First of all, certain ones come. There’s a lot of confusion in who they should be calling. I have a process of identifying whether we have it or can research it. A lot of times they have to call the home loan office. We can either see them in CAROLS or we can’t. If we can see it, we’ve already started the process of collecting on the home loan debt. There are older ones we don’t even see and they might be calling cuz they never received the certificate of eligibility so we have to research that. We work with them on payment plans and guide them through the interest portion. 

**If we’re looking to provide veterans a way to access these letters online, what information do you think is important for veterans to know about their debt?**<br>
Well, I mean, our letters do not provide any information about why the debt was created. When we receive a debt, we simply send a general letter that they have an education debt of this amount. I believe it’s hard for the person receiving it to match them up with the letters receiving from the benefits office. The letter there does not mention the amount of the debt. Our letter comes out relatively quick after that one so it seems obvious that they’re tied together but that’s not often the case. There’s an effort to combine that type of information somehow. It seems like the letter needs to be more clear about why the debt was created and at what time. 

**Any other information for us to know?**<br>
Not specific, I would say it would be helpful right away if the letters could be online other than waiting for the letter to show up. That would be a huge benefit. 
