# Design Weekly Sync Agenda
## 2024-01-29
Attendees: TBD

- UX Grooming: can we review the UX work spreadsheet and clean it up? It's a bit messy with some icebox work, completed work, etc.

## 2024-01-22
Attendees: Angela, Hieu, Jessica, Katelyn, (Heather and Kristen for second half)

- Mini UX Refinement Session
- Opened UX Work Spreadsheet and reviewed items
- Also reviewed Figma spreadsheet with assignments by page

- When Kristen joined - pivoted to talking about Toxic Exposure questions
- She will be helping to connect our team with the 526 team
- Reviewed current status of the draft and flow of questions
- Outstanding SME questions, esp around short form
- Wondering how/when to end question flow - if answer yes to one, skip the remaining. Depends on how ES is going to be built, a yes/no boolean value or the details of each individual question?


## 2024-01-16
Attendees: Angela, Hieu, Jessica, Katelyn, Heather, and Kristen.

- Toxic Exposure
    - We already have the Mural and a PACT Act wizard (check eligible then apply for 10-10).
    - Kristen mentioned that the OCTO team had some recent related research with Nina synthesizing this week and Kristen will do a first path.
    - Step 1 is to gather all the information.
    - There are talks of adding this information to the 526. If that is the case, how can that information be captured so the Veteran does not have to fill out the same information in the 10-10. Is there another backend system that connects this information? Is the Enrollment System ready for this information?
    - "If the answer is YES for X, does it mean they don't have to answer the following question?" Map the workflow after the initial discovery step.
    - The veteran wants to be asked the questions again when the definition of Toxic exposure changes.
- OCTO Presentation
    - Print PDF to Kristen.
    - Re-word the text for HEC focused on wanting to stay true to the paperform.
    - Note that it is a new FORM, step 1 is MVP, with the following steps including Notification workflow.
- Registration-only Update
    - Jessica started a rough script, Angela will read it.


## 2024-01-08
Attendees: Angela, Hieu, Jessica, Katelyn, And Heather

- Error Matrix - The team decide that Github would only hold the link while the Mural would have the Source of Truth.

- Team discussed the use of the UX ticket spreadsheet has a place to organize and plan the tickets.

- EZR MVP UAT presentation for HEC
    - Angela presented the current slide deck.
    - Team discuss the possible Next Steps to present: EZR V2 including short-form (Recommendation 1), the Review/Sub-task flow (Recommendation 3), and the Post-MVP usability research (recommendation 2). Angela will talk to Alex in regards to the overall priorities, including NoK/EC. And we should include that all of these features will be incrementally released. 

- Team discuss the possibility of presenting the Registration Only work to the OCTO. There were two schools of thought; present sooner to show the struggle with a reluctant stakeholder or present later in hopes of capturing some progress through workshops. 

## 2023-12-18
Attendees: Angela, Hieu, Jessica, Katelyn, And Kristen

- Figma: The team notes that Multiple Component Card is not yet a Figma Component

- EZR MVP Veteran Testing: Heather is looking for Veterans to test the end-to-end form. We would be looking for lower Priority Group (Veterans that would be required to provide financial information).

- Registration: 
  - Team discussion potential next steps as we like the hub approach the VES team represented, it aligns with the Veterans’ mental model. 
  - The difficult part is how to tell that story to the HEC stakeholders. 
  - Katelyn notes the HEC likes to have visuals to share, perhaps we can create a Journey Map in PDF for them.
  - Jessica notes the importance of including the HEC folks in some of the process (Veteran’s journey map, study quotes).

- Updated Dependent Flow
  - Only updating copy in at the Education Expense if the user adds more than a zero in gross annual income.
  - Flow has to be simplified, no longer a technical burden.

- After the EZR MVP launch
  - Kristen brought up Facilities API. The drop-down is dated and does not connect with current data. Jessica notes that CareGiver’s facility has similar functionality we can utilize.


## 2023-12-11
Attendees: Angela, Hieu, Jessica, Katelyn, Kristen, and Alex

- EZR research - Katelyn to reach out to design Platform peeps to get the team on the schedule for end of January to present at the Monday VA design/research/content sync, Hieu to start work on a combo presentation deck (will need to open a ticket for this)
  
- EZR research - Alex, we want to present to HEC at some point in January too; future parking lot planning item to chat more

- Dependents verbiage/flow - the flow updates we are in agreement; will work with Aliyah this week to get the reported income content draft created. Noting here to tackle later - in the future see if the income questions on the form can be simplified down to what really impacts health care benefits.

- SIP - more looking into the other teams and what version they have; working on getting CodePen templates setup for testing

- Registration - Need to schedule a research readout for this week first, then a workshop session either next week or after the new year/Holidays. Workshop session  registration next steps and mapping.

- Kristen's comment:
    - Recommendation: does not have to be limited to the product/team, think of it as a holistic service.
    - For Registration, what would be the ideal workflow for the Veterans?


## 2023-12-04
Attendees: Angela, Hieu, Jessica, Katelyn, Kristen, and Alex


- EZR research - Katelyn to reach out to design Platform peeps to get the team on the schedule for end of January to present at the Monday VA design/research/content sync, Hieu to start work on a combo presentation deck (will need to open a ticket for this)

- EZR research - Alex, we want to present to HEC at some point in January too; future parking lot planning item to chat more

- Dependents verbiage/flow - the flow updates we are in agreement; will work with Aliyah this week to get the reported income content draft created. Noting here to tackle later - in the future see if the income questions on the form can be simplified down to what really impacts health care benefits.

- SIP - more looking into the other teams and what version they have; working on getting CodePen templates setup for testing

- Registration - Need to schedule a research readout for this week first, then a workshop session either next week or after the new year/Holidays. Workshop session - registration next steps and mapping


---


## 2023-12-04
Attendees: Angela, Hieu, Jessica, Katelyn, Kristen, and Alex

EZ/R issues discussed
- Research Synthesis
    - Findings were not launch blocking
    - Every participant had minor hiccups and things they would like to clarify but it is not consistent location where that occurs. 
- Status, PendingMT is Post MVP
    - Content has looked at the info.
    - For MVP, we will skip the financial information if they already done the Means Test.
- Education Expenses question verbiage
    - Team found that education expense verbiage is awkward.
    - Jessica notes that it is more about dependent age vs dependent income. Currently, the conditional is based on the depedent's age when it should be around the dependent's income.
    - The main question: how is this information impacting the veteran health care?
- EC/NOK
    - There is a max/min number of EC and NoK within the Enrollment System?
    - Alex notes that we're should start with only one EC/NoK
    - Question for dev: does it wipe the data of the previous one when you ending a new one?
- Save-in-progress
    - Update for Kristen; the team wants to appoarch this problem and solve it correctly the first time.
    - Note for Frontend stating that feature flag does not work here since the team does not have access to the the form data functions. We should consider CodePin.
    - Angela to clarify the feature flag with Matt Long.
    - Kristen ask if this can be tested with other feature of the EZR? The team notes that is the intention.
- EZ Intro Page
    - Flagged by platform because it has subway stepping component. There is a recommendation to go towards the current, shorter introduction page standard.
    - Current Alert is flagged because it is not in current form library. But this alert pushes the user to sign in to get current status.
    - Kristen: Did the 526 dropped the Alert from the top? Conceptually, the layout is the same the 10-10 team. Jessica will look into that.

Registration issues discussed
- Registration Tree Test
    - 35 test completed
    - Team starting to synthesis the study.
    - Not much succecss with where we hypothesize.
    - The testers wants an apointment schedule as part of the process.
    - VS is excited with the disability section.


## 2023-11-27
Attendees: Angela, Jessica, Hieu, Katelyn, Kristen, and Alex

EZR issues discussed
- Save-in-Progress
    - The main consideration is a visual alert, similar experimental design of the Platform System team.
    - Option 1: alert message within the multiple-response component card.
    - Option 2: alert above the card, with the name listed.
    - Kristen inquired if the component had been tested with the alert. Angela later confirmed that it had not been tested.
    - Team needs to discuss with Dev if it is possible to bring the user to the incompleted page.
    - The team has not discussed or mocked what this would look like on the Review Page.
- Mean Test Status, Alert (Pending vs Enrolled)
    - For the MVP, the team is thinking of several slim alerts. (Enrolled, Pending, and already filled out before the household financial section).
    - MVP consideration: Should we consider blocking access to EZR if they already have a Mean Test for the current year? Kristen notes that the main reason for EZR is to capture the Mean Test and we currently have Enrolled terminality, this will require a Content update.
    - Discuss if the "mean test" is something the Veteran would understand. Kristen notes that the VA is looking to deprecate that term.
    - Questions the team needs answering: what is the number of Veterans on the Pending List? Does enrollment change from Enrolled to Pending on Jan 1st?
- The team notes that the MVP bugs are on the Dev's hand
- Research Synthesis can be discussed on Tuesday since SIP and Mean Test alert is a priority.


## 2023-11-20
Attendees: Angela, Jessica, Hieu, Katelyn, Kristen, Heather and Alex

EZR issues discussed
- A need for an alert on the EZR intro page when a Veteran has a status of PendingMT or Pending other, we talked about if this could be in phase 2 and MVP would only be for those who are already fully enrolled.
- Thought of after the call… should the pendingMT alert on the EZ include a link to the EZR once it goes live?
- Will work on a draft, but has other implications and talking about v2. We won’t be able to get early content review until next week. 

Hieu - UX issues found during Friday’s research UAT session
- Review page when you try and edit Medicare Part A yes/no question and click Update Page run into an error - ticket #70261
    - Kristen notes that it is a Form Library issue, Review Page is heavily controlled by them.
- Save in progress link button resets yes/no on the Mailing Address page - ticket #70258

Insurance page 
- Agreed with the arrangement of moving additional info component into main content as short term solution
- Discussed pattern implications of current and future state with use cases including when prefilled and if that information would still be valuable

EZ Intro page topics
- Reviewed drafts. 
- Follow up with forms / design system team on if the heading “What to know… “ is locked in or if we could adjust that.
- Changed numbered headlines from stepper into h2s utilizing the newer page template
- Also follow up to see if other teams have template or if there are/will be form templates for intro pages when an authenticated user has interacted with a form previously and/or was approved/denied

Design will schedule a follow up meeting tomorrow on the save in progress pattern issue

## 2023-11-13

Attendees: Angela, Jessica, Hieu, Katelyn

- Team discussed the minor changes in the conversation guide of the EZR MVP UAT: added instruction to sign in to a backup account, moved the "beta version" blurb closer to the scenario, and added a blurb at the Review section.
- Coordination with Sara Sterkenburg on MHV team to update the link on the MHV Landing Page: we have looped her in a while back but will waiting for an exact launch date before pinging her team to the link.
- Jessica noted that most SHOULD feedback items on the STAGING REVIEW comment have been picked up or it is a Form's Library limitation/constraint.

## 2023-11-06

Attendees: Angela, Jessica, Hieu, Katelyn, Kristen, Alex, Heather, Emily

- Team discussed the submission dependent error (applies to all Mutilple Response components and how to approach it.
- Short-term approach for the Contradictory alerts and contents:
    - Staging is using the v1 Stepper Component that contains the “We’ll save your application on every change. Your application ID number is ####.” message.” This is part of the forms library, it cannot be changed.
    - The Sketch mockup uses v3, which does have the message. Once the form library is updated, dev can update the Stepper to v3.
    - The solution: remove the “Finish this application later” function for the Multiple Response section and add a warning stating they must complete the required field in this section.

- We discussed how discovery works needs to be done on the multiple components.
    - Why doesn’t pre-fill work on this component? 
    - If “query’ requires each page to have a unique URL, can we have multiple URLs? How does this work with multiple dependents? 
    - How are other teams approaching this? Tabs you can edit? Task-list, sub-task? 
- Can we incorporate a generative study? 
    - UAT, upcoming Nov 13-22: leave as is.
    - Usability Study in the middle of January: maybe
- We discuss how this work also revolves around EZR V2, Review & Confirm flow. And it would be good to jump-start it.

## 2023-10-30

Attendees: Jessica, Hieu, Katelyn, Kristen, Alex, Heather, Emily


- EZR MVP Research
    - Went over conversation guide:
    - How should the participant get to the static page? The team thinks it is a better scenario to have the Veteran update their Insurance.
    - UX should ask the developer for update, and staging links since we want to submit research ASAP.

- Midpoint Review
    - UX should have Assistive Tech user for Usability Research (in December)
    - A MUST-change (launch blocking) for the Review Page, wording on the Agreement. Team must confirm with HEC SME.
    - Design MUST: Reviewers wants the Additional Info to be shorter, more in line with the Guidelines. While lengthy, the content in the household is needed. The team feels the need to push back.

- Registration Tree-Test:
    - Waiting for HEC to respond.
    - Mural Presentation, we had (2) questions that needed answer.

- Team wants to hold Registration since EZR takes priority.


## 2023-10-23

Attendees: Jessica, Hieu, Kristen, Alex


- Went over registration presentation deck
- Talked about reframing the deck outline to be focused on the scenarios and remove the other slides
- Use examples and Sketch wireframes within the scenario examples instead of at the end of the presentation
- Talked about cohorts for registration tree test; focusing on most being unenrolled but a cohort or two of enrolled with disability ratings. 



## 2023-10-16

Attendees: Jessica, Katelyn, Hieu, Kristen


- Talked about EZ intro page for those who are already enrolled and the adjustments needed once the EZR goes live
  - Next steps: 
  - Consider changes to the content around updates to benefits, the two headline sections could be combined
  - Look at both primary and secondary action links in the design system
  - Consider the only call to action on the page to be the "update benefit" button.

- Talked about the Registration updates late last week and how to re-approach the problem
  - Next steps:
  - Working sessions for research questions and research goals
  - Once those are refined; begin thinking through research methods/logistics

## 2023-10-11

Attendees: Jessica, Katelyn, Hieu, Kristen


- Reviewed Registration Flow Exploration and Matrix comparrison work and discussed the pros/cons/differences between each of these
- Also talked about variations of the flows and what would make sense MVP term and ideal state, what mvp could build up/set the foundation for the ideal state
- Decided on a flow variation where on the intro page there is a Veteran and non-Veteran split/ action links, followed by a prioritization wizard.
  - Followed by a prioritization wizard
  - Consider the short-form as part of the MVP
- The business logic (unauthenticated) flow is the backup.
- Next steps to create wireflow of mvp direction and share back with team


## 2023-10-02

Attendees: DK, Katelyn, Jessica, Kristen

- EZR - insurance section to match ez regarding headlines (h3-ish). We won't introduce new field set legends for mvp.
- EZR Research Planning - started talking about research goals and who to recruit. Looking towards 2 cohorts with different disability ratings, those over 50% and those under 10%. Talked about starting the convo guide at VA.gov and not on the form intro page so we can learn more about the wayfinding side of it and if there is confusion between the static and intro pages
- Registration Research Synthesis - went over Mural board and first draft of key findings; going to add in more details and examples around some of the findings like the learning curve, burden of proof and the benefits overlap from the Veteran's perspective. More chats to come on recommendations and next steps


## 2023-09-18

Attendees: DK, Katelyn, Jessica, Hieu

Mostly a working session on EZR screens.

## 2023-09-11

Attendees: DK, Katelyn, Jessica, Hieu

Mostly a working session on EZR screens.

## 2023-09-05

Mostly a working session on EZR screens.

## 2023-08-28

Attendees: DK, Katelyn, Jessica, Hieu, Kristen

A few quick notes from the session, which was mostly about the EZR work:

- Decision: Show statuses on first page and every section.
- Need to check with engineers about save data to PDF form.
- In aggreenent to ditch the stepper if possible.
- [Post MVP Mural](https://app.mural.co/t/departmentofveteransaffairs9999/m/departmentofveteransaffairs9999/1693945362104/f2d83704cf9de28206d5cb28e1b188a3f87b96e9?sender=ubf5503bf47b6eb1e92730053) to track future enhancements.

## 2023-08-21

Attendees: DK, Katelyn, Hieu, Kristen, Alex

A few quick notes from the session, which was mostly about the EZR work:

- We probably don't need the stepper on the form intro page. Check with Matt L. on nixing it.
- Work on next appointment language could be helpful. Check with that team.
- Check on application vs. form language with content.
- What happens when people with account go into form, but aren't enrolled and can't apply? We need an alert for this.
- Need a ticket for error messages. Look at the EZ for inspiration here.

## 2023-08-14

Attendees: DK, Katelyn, Hieu, Kristen, Emily, Alex

**EZR form wireframe**: Hieu

- Jessica's feedback in Sketch all straight forward and had no main questions or challenges.
- DK's feedback around one thing per page: Can we still combine fields that can't be changed? DK: Yes, it was a concern and possible feedback that Collab Cycle folks might have. But it can still be explored.
- Kristen to review the wireframes this week.

**Research synthesis**: Katelyn

- Katelyn to carve out slides/sections she wants to work on in HEC deck and Mural.
- Katelyn to make a working session for today to team can collaborate on synthesis more.

## 2023-08-07

Attendees:

**Research sync on current research + synthesis**: All

- Research is showing Profile would be the best location for EZR info. We'll need to have the conversation with PRA folks. Alex to set up a meeting with them, Kristen and Patrick when Patrick is back from vacation.
- One middle ground might be to link to a separate EZR form from the Profile, if we have to walk in both worlds of a separate form and putting it in a location where Veterans want it. Still working both angles: Profile and separate form flow.
- Designers will meet to walk through submitting for Household study.

**EZR wireframe**: Hieu

- Showed spreadsheet with field comparison. Will work on wireframe of separate form flow next.
- Look at Pre-checkin for confirm flow.
- Could be a technical limitation because of Check-in confirm flow not being in forms library. Chat with engineers about the possibilities there.

## 2023-08-01

Attendees:  DK, Jessica, Katelyn, Hieu, Kristen, Heather, Alex, Fletcher

**Research organization and planning**

Prototype study: Could tackle the PRA stuff if it's strongly Profile direction. If not, back to the drawing board.
Mobile app is looking into Priority Groups. Touch base with them on research.

- Add in video check at end.
- Priority Group: Didn't know. Could we relate to disbility rating.
- Disability rating and financial ratings: How to this interplay? How is it used by other benefits? Maybe check out financial hardship form.
- Deadline remains the same for EZR whether it's a form or in Profile.

**Registration only study feedback** 

- Leave the priority group questions in this research.
- Good idea to show print version of the current state form.
- Ask about changes to ideal state after seeing the print form or an example.
- Cohort 1: Does warmup question make sense for folks who didn't enroll? Maybe it's around care? Delete for question, but keep second one.
- Third topic, first question: Break this question up some.
- Cohort 2: Warmup, maybe follow up on what kind of activities they do.
- First topic: Maybe too many questions for 10 minutes?

**Household study**

- Overlap. Will we need to get the prototype ready?
- Go lighter on Household section.
- Focus on one thing vs. all three studies.

## 2023-07-24

Attendees:  DK, Jessica, Katelyn, Kristen, Heather

**Research organization and planning**

We talked through logistics for our upcoming studies. The goal is to have a primary lead for each research activity and a backup. Two people would take each study.

- Katelyn to lead synthesis on FD
- Hieu to lead prototype next steps
- Hieu/DK to take planning on prototype research
- Jessica/DK on Household study
- Registration-only: Jessica/Katelyn to take lead
- Katelyn in Hawaii for Labor Day
- Sign up for mod. sessions.

[Full planning available in the research planning Mural](https://app.mural.co/t/departmentofveteransaffairs9999/m/departmentofveteransaffairs9999/1686254946051/07405f6e988a0541dc0983cc5e286ba6fe612cf8?wid=189-1652380184686).



**Registration-only stuff**

- Same disclosure depending on registration-only flow? Not different for paper form. Still have to agree.
- Still some questions around the priority of the flows.
- Kristen/Patrick: Where should it be in the C&P process?
- This is early work so more coming.

**Memorable date component**

- Version 3 has month picker by name vs. date number. Maybe easier cognitively. Hasn't been tested by Veterans.
- How many date fields on EZ? Three/four or more. CG is a better testing ground.
- Maybe tradeoffs for each one would be better to see it all.
- Katelyn to make a list of tradeoffs for each path and share.

## 2023-07-17

Attendees:  DK, Jessica, Hieu, Katelyn, Kristen

**EZR Research**

- Jessica with where we're at in getting research scheduled.

Action items:

- Send note to Robyn for research heads up. Waiting for AE feedback.

**HEC presentation for EZR work**

- DK to run through rough slides/presentation.

Action items:

- Add questions to slide deck.
- Ask about process in design

**Date Input vs. Memorable Date**

- Katelyn to review desk research on these components and lead discussion with designers about direction

Action items:

- Ask about forms design system and memorable date component
- Ask about launch date for component in design system
- Look into accessibility research

## 2023-07-10

Attendees: DK, Jessica, Hieu, Alex

**EZR related wireframes and meeting prep (Hieu)**

- We mostly talked through a strategy of how to pitch the EZR-related work in the Profile area of VA.gov.

**EZR related research (Jessica)**

- This mostly feels like it's in good shape after Jessica talked through it. No major feedback or changes.

## 2023-06-26

Attendees: DK, Jessica, Hieu, Katelyn, Kristen

**EZR discovery ticket (Hieu)**

- [Discovery for Veteran Information Editing](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/issues/58542): This ticket feels too big since scope changed. Let's take that back to Heather and Alex and see what we can do with it.
- We still need to do some sythesis on the Pittsburgh and Martinsburg research calls.

**Priority Group/Financial Info research (Jessica)**

Some big takeaways from this discussion:

- Let's do some more desk research to see what other teams have insight that can help with our current research efforts. Jessica has [notes in her Mural board](https://app.mural.co/invitation/mural/departmentofveteransaffairs9999/1687381992402?sender=u773b824999f25f58b8e77486&key=2694912f-19c7-4254-8e86-ce74e6a4bdf0).

- Things to consider for Priority Group: unclear on what type of information can be shared with the Veterans. What is the tradeoff to showing that information? Should we be showing the overview definitions or the individualized PG?

## 2023-06-19

Attendees: DK, Jessica, Hieu, Katelyn, Kristen

**Progress bar/stepper (Hieu)**

Questions:

- What does our research say about the bar/stepper? Is it needed?
- Does this component still solve a problem Veteran has?
- What's the opportunity to interact with it? Maybe it becomes navigation in the future?

**CG business feedback (Katelyn)**

- Talked through a few potential copy changes. Katelyn to share those with content folks ahead of time off.

**Pittsburgh research call review (all)**

- Follow up on benefits packet to see the content.
- Cover roles in future call. Follow up on past call.
- Watch magic wand scenios for thoughts on tension between HEC center and employees at centers.

**Action items**

- Hieu to connect with forms design team and explore different options.

## 2023-06-12

Attendees: DK, Jessica, Hieu, Katelyn, Kristen, Alex

**VA 1010EZ Staff Research Questions**

We brainstormed questions for interviewing staff, done in these two Mural boards:

- [EZR discovery](https://app.mural.co/t/departmentofveteransaffairs9999/m/departmentofveteransaffairs9999/1684943221068/4b11f2d1902d05f12f53468263a561c2d5a460a9?wid=0-1684949791097)
- [EZ Registration-only path discovery](https://app.mural.co/t/departmentofveteransaffairs9999/m/departmentofveteransaffairs9999/1684348883203/49fc4ff1bf31f3cabe200663708c1002645b447f?wid=0-1686000958778)

## 2023-06-05

Attendees: DK, Jessica, Hieu, Katelyn, Kristen

**Registration-only (Jessica)**

- Jessica has a board with questions to answer via research.
- We talked through early reseach questions and what we're still missing as far as questions.

**EZR (Hieu)**

- Hieu walked us through the EZR Mural board and process flows he's created.
- We decided he's in a good place until we dig up more information through the scheduled meetings Alex is working on.

## 2023-05-29

- No meeting (holiday)

## 2023-05-22

Attendees: DK, Jessica, Hieu, Katelyn, Kristen

**Introduction**

Kristen McConnell introduced herself as part of OCTO, works with Patrick Bateman, and will be in all of the syncs. She is part of the health team, the design and research lead, and the appointment lead. She wants to encourage the team to think very broadly, beyond the scope of one project.

**Registration only path**
- Jessica showed off her early discovery efforts on the registration only path. It's early still and there are a lot of unanswered questions.
- Kristen: Think broadly with this research. Maybe onsite research? What setups in E&E offices would you need? We can provide a list of requirements for the sites.
- Kristen: Do we need triggers on other pages? What are the access points and should they be more strategic?


**Designer skills**

We came up with this rough list during the meeting:

Visual design
Interaction design
Discovery work
Research
  - Planning
  - Analyzing
  - Running it
Content
  - Plain language
  - Microcopy
  - UX writing
Design system
IA
Systems-level thinking
Journey mapping/Flows/Service design
Accessibility
  - Design reviews
  - Audits
QA work
Stakeholder management
Storytelling
Presentations
Running meetings
Workshops
Internal advocacy

### Action items

- DK: Create a skills spreadsheet, starting with what we've brainstormed here.

---

## 2023-05-15

Attendees: DK, Jessica, Hieu


**Headline and Radio label design discovery**
- Hieu walked through two examples for both radio buttons and h3s on the 1010EZ.
- Broadly, the group felt like the explorations would improve things for Veterans, but only incrementally. It avoids the real challenge, making the questions h1 elements and deemphasizing the progress bar.


**Misc Item (Tabled items; if time chat about next meeting)**
- Any onboarding related questions?
- Designer interests and experiences list
- Content process ideas
- Source of truth - what lives where - Sketch, Mural, Github

### Action items

- Hieu to update ticket and recommend we work on the bigger problem instead: h1 and progress bar.
- The team should think through how it can contribute to that work broadly.

--- 

## 2023-05-08

Attendees: DK, Jessica, Katelyn, Hieu, Matt K.

**Katelyn showing designs for an improved primary/secondary caregiver clarification experience.**

- Experimented with different versions of a table, featuring primary/secondary caregiver differences. Great for scanning. Could be a challenge on mobile. Check color contrast and design system contraints/experiemental patterns for table visual treatments. 
- Started with DK's copy, and it feels like a lot of copy no matter how you arrange it or what components you use.
- Introduction page updates so it uses design system intro patter/progress component
- Additional info component feels like a crutch here. Also, modals won't work well either. Maybe this is a good reason to explore altering the flow?

### Action items

- Katelyn to do some work on a next round of designs and bring it to our next meeting.
