**Notetaker**: Samara

## Notes
9.4.18 — 12:00 PM

### Find VA Benefits Page

**Why were you taken to Find VA Benefits after you signed in?**

This is.. to me, this appears to be a list of all the potential services on the website. This pops them up so you can find them quickly.

**Does this make sense to you?**

Yes, it makes perfect sense. It's beneficial to tell me what the services are instead of having me click around trying to find something.

**What is the purpose of this page?**

I think it is intended to identify areas in which you are intending to obtain additional information on by listing a list of broad categories.

**What do directions mean?"**

Of the 10 items there, these are the 10 items that the veterans are most interested in. You put a check mark in the box (muttering about scrolling) and then click Save Preferences. My assumption is whatever I put a checkmark in will pop up with more information about it.

**What might you see on the next page?**

So let's say I picked Healthcare. On the next page, I would anticipate finding more information directly or links to more information, like healthcare options. If I were to apply for additional disability compensation, it would give me information on different types of illnesses and injuries covered. For appeals, if I have a decision, can I appeal it? It would provide me with links on how to do that and what I need to build my case.

**How would you select benefits?**

I would put a checkmark in the white box in each area I was interested in.

(Was able to correctly select all items)

**Do the options feel relevant to you currently?**

Sure. All veterans are going to be interested in healthcare and how to find the most comprehensive, least expensive options that are available to them so they can have a choice and make a decision about what coverage they need. And how to get it — I antiicipate it's going to take me to a section that's going to help me to obtain healthcare coverage. Same with diability,it's gonna have benefits realted to injuries and illnesses I have. If I have a hearing condition, it may provide hearing aids or physical therapy. For education and training, how to use my GI bill benefits, how to use them myself or transfer them to family members or be compensated for training I've taken.

**Do they feel relevant to past circumstances?**

Yeah, definitely. For most veterans, what is written there are the big 10. Right off the bat, I can't think of one that might be missing.

**Is there anything missing?**

No. If I passed, my wife would easily be able to find what she needs.

**What happens when you click Save Preferences?**

The next screen will take me to those three broad categories, whether it is tabbed out or listed in a page metaphor with relevant information to that category underneat it.

**What would happen if you clicked cancel?**

That's a good question. It would either clear all the choices, or take me back to the page that referred to this page, so the login screen. It would take me back to the main homepage. Either the main homepage or the login page for Vets.gov

**How could this page be improved?**

The colors don't really stand out. I'm not really a "gray" person. I would say you may want to go with a different color that helps them stand out a little. There is also nothing that highlights them (participant is referencing hover effects).

**What works well?**

Having everything grouped the way it is works well. "I want to find the following" and utilizing that kind of wording. Now When you say select one or more of the types of benefits below, that tells me what my action has to be. The only thing it doesn't say is to put a check in the box, but for most people on the internet that's pretty self explanatory.

### Dashboard

**Take a look at this first section and tell me is this what you expected to see after you clicked Save Preferences??**

Actually yes, that kind of a ... the way ou have it broken down works perfectly. I'm actually quite familiar with the plus and minus. The three categories are there with information on how to apply to them. I do... I think that page works well. The only criticism I have, if any, is the use of gray.

**Healthcare is open, and everything else is closed. Why? Would you prefer a different presentation?**

I think it's fine the way it is. I honestly expected to see healthcare first because that was first in the list and then the other two because that was how they were presented. I click on the plus or minus to open or close a section. So yeah, that is exactly how I would have expected it.

(*Why is the top block open?*) Because that was the first one I chose. I don't see anything wrong with having that be the first one open in the list.

**Would healthcare content be helpful or unhelpful in guiding you to apply?**

I think it is helpful. It's gonna help me determine if I'm eligible, it's gonna tellme what services are available and what's covered, and how to apply. I think that's fine.

(*anything missing?*) It tells me if Im eligible, how to apply, and what services are covered, but I don't see anything here about options. You could either have basic healthcare, cadillac plan. I'm a federal employee now, so during the open season, I get a list of all the healthcare options available. But I don't know what are options are available to me besides applying online. That link itself may take me to a page itself that outlines other options, but that's not clear.

(*do you want to see VA coverage compared to other types of coverage?*) Yes, and what are the limits of the coverage. So the VA coverage, is it one size fits all, or are there different levels of VA coverage?

**How would you open disability compensation?**

I would click the minus and then click on the plus. Click the plus to open the next section.

**Would disability content be helpful or unhelpful in guiding you to apply?**

To me, I want to see if I am eligible for compensation. Maybe the injury that I perceive that I have as being service connected may or may not be. The different types of claims, that's important to know the  types of claims I can make. Whether I want to work with a trained professional, whether it's one of the VA organization... now woking with a trained professional, does that tell me if it's a VA professional or trained professional... maybe I would get that if I clicked the link. How to file a claim is the next one, ok. That top part hits the big ones.

File a claim on eBenefit... that would go to the point if I am doing an online claim, then I would have to assume that clicking on that link would bring me to a page that is more of a checklist or upload documents or supporting information.

The bottom half if I am looking for VR&E for a potential sevice connected disability or... no, I think that's fine. Pretty clear.

(*anything missing?*) Um, I think of... a link...there's when you're talking about the different claim type, you may want to have some sort of information that talks about how compensation is calculated because VA math is not the same math they teach in school. I am not sure if you are fmailiar with it, but if you have 4 10% disability ratings, you don't have a 40% rating. 10 + 10 could equal 12, 12 +10 is 16, and 16 + 10 could be 22, which means you have a 22% rating. On the current eBenefits page, there is a link to that, so you may want to include that because it has important information on how they calculate those ratings. 

**Would education content be helpful or unhelpful in guiding you to apply?**

Nope, that's perfect. That's hitting the big categories.

(*anything missing?*) So I guess my assumption is that I am looking at this as the initiation of utlizing training, as ipposed to I am already utilizing training and there is a link to the benefits I have been awarded and the status of the benefits. Does that make sense? it would tell me how much I have used, how much might still be remaining. When I used mine,that was one of the hardest things to keep track of because there was no one place to do it, so you always had to call someone because it was not online so I had to call someone to look me up.

**How would you remove education and training from your homepage?**

So... I would probably have to go back to the page where I selected the benefits I was interested in and unselect the box for education and training. I don't see a link for that now, maybe it's on the page and I just can't see it, but sometimes websites will have where the link expands, you might have something that says delete or remove.

(*if you had to find the link on this page, where do you think you would find it?*) Probably under that "search for benefits" page. Um... again, I don't necessarily see the whole page in this window so I am scrolling. Oh, so there's a link. Under the top where it says "Find VA benefits" there is a link to "Change benefits you're interested in," so my assumption is if you click that it would take me back to the previous page where i selected the three benefits I was interested in and unselect one of them.

(participant continues with this flow and removes education and training from his homepage)

**How would add education and training back in?**

I'd repeate that process. I'd go back up to the link, click on that, and it would take me back a page.

Now, at this point, going back to the previous page and forward again... if you just had a pulldown where you could select which ones you wanted or didn't want anymore, that might be quicker.

**In real life, what might prompt you to add benefits to the Find VA Benefits tool?**

A change in life events, ya know maybe that now I need to seek healthcare. Maybe I retired from my second job or lost health insurance, or maybe I want to pursue education, or maybe things were about to expire and I wanted to see what was left.

**In real life, what might prompt you to remove benefits to the Find VA Benefits tool?**

I got the information I was interested in. If it was healthcare, maybe I already applied or it and don't need it on my homepage anymore, or if I was ineligible. Or if I had used my education benefits.

**Do you think a block would change or stay the same after you clicked Apply?**

I would hope that it would change, kind of in the same way that USAJOBS changes, when you hit apply, it says "in process." Where it says "Apply for healthcare," maybe it changes to something that says "in process" or "started" or something that tells me... maybe I got pulled away and come back a couple days later and think "where am I?" Something that clues you into that.

**How could this page be improved?**

Again, I would look to a judicious use of some color. Black and white pages tend to be visually off-putting, so if the healthcare benefit streamer could be changed to light blue... the text looks fine, but maybe a graphic or two? Otherwise it looks like I am reading a book.

**What works well?**

I think it's clean and to the point, and I think that is what most people are looking for. I don't think you are looking at more than one or two clicks to get you where you want to, and three clicks is the magic number so if I can get to what I am looking for... I've selected my benefits, I see what I'm looking for... I am there in three clicks.

### Follow up questions

**Helpful or unhelpful overall**

Honestly, I think it could be extremely helpful. The current eBenefits site can be overly complex and a bit of a nightmare in terms of too much information. Sometimes I click around for 20, 30, or 40 minutes looking for what I am looking for and doing online searches doesn't seem to help, so I'm not sure if the site is organized or indexed cleanly. What you presented today is a lot cleaner.

**Would this have been helpful in the past?**

I think it would have been very helpful compared to the process that I went through.

**How can we help people learn about benefits?**

I would use more common language and less legalese. I think this direction that this page is going is beneficial. I don't want to say it's overly simplistic. It's just simpler to use than the current site. It's smaller text, it's menu driven on the left side. It's hard to find what you are looking for.

**How can we assist with the application process?**

I would try to find a way to encourage people to use the third party professional. You cna get professional assistance that is free. Try to find a way to emphasize the user of the service organizations whether you use the more common ones or less common ones, but there are 3,4,5 avenues to getting professional assistance. Doign that initial disability application can be worse than doing your taxes.

**Would you recommend this tool?**

I would definitely recommend it. Yeah, and i would try to get those VA organizations that provide assistance to sponsor this.

__________________

**Notetaker**: Julia E

## Notes
9.4.18 — 12:00 PM

### Warm-up Questions

- 21 years of active duty
- Retired Sept 1, 2001
- Helicopter pilot and then IT side of the house
- 30% disability rating; being reviewed
- Have an appeal that has been pending for the past 18 months.
- Does not have a vets.gov account
- Currently a federal employee

### First Task: Find VA Benefits Page.

- List of potential servicea available on the website, makes sense
- Beneficial to what the services are and lets me know. Better to pop up instead of trying to find it.
- Page seems intended to obtain additional information based on broad categories
- These are the broad categories that Veterans would apply for. 
- Click on the check boxes and select "save preferences"
- Next page will show more information about those benefits.
- Would anticipate finding information directly or links to get more information
- If I were to apply for addtnl or information about and application submission processes
- Next page should also show appeals process and the additional information I will need to build my case.
- Would select benefits I am interested in by selecting white check boxes.
- Information on this page supplies what I currently need.
- Want to know what is available and least expensive, and how to get it.
- Would anticipate this page will guide me on how to obtain things like health care coverage.
- For most Veterans, these are the big ten. Health, taking care of me and how to bury me.
- My wife would be able to easily find what she needed.
- Click save preferences = the next screen would take me to those three broad categories with information relevant to the categories underneath it.
- Click cancel = it would clear all the choices or take me back to the main homepage.
- Improvements = The colors don't stand out.I would tell you that the backgrounds colors in the choices of the categories should have a different background color. No hover state/change color. Something so you know what box you are on. Should also say something about "check these boxes".
- Worked well = having everything grouped the way it is works very well. 

### Second Task: Dashboard

- This is what I expect to see after clicking "save preferences". 
- My three categories are there with info, links + how to apply
- This page works very well.
- Criticism: Use of gray in the banner.
- Expected to see Health care first b/c of how it was presented in the previous page.
- I understand to click the plus/minus to view the information.
- Top block is open b/c it's the first one I picked.
- I don't see anything wrong with opening the first one in the list.
- Health care content block: helpful information. Tells me what I can apply for and how to apply. I don't see anything here about options for health care. For example, the basic healthcare cadillac plan. What are my health care choices? Compared to open enrollment for Federal employees (e.g. here are the health care coverage options). Different levels of VA coverage.
- I would click on the minus and then click on the plus to view information.
- Disability content = the top part hits all the big questions. Content is clear.
- Would be good to have an explanation on how disability is calculated.
- "VA math is not the math you learn in school."
- eBenefits has important information about how they come up with those ratings. Would be good to put in here too.
- Would have to go back to the original page and un-select that box to remove one of these preferences from this page.
- Would not want these on my homepage b/c I used a benefit or I was no longer eligible.
- Would add something to the homepage b/c of a change of a life event; pursue education.
- Click apply health care = would send me to another page that would take me to the health care application process. Showing me VA facility closest to me.
- Once I submitted an application for health care, I would expect the information on my homepage to change.
- I would look to a judicious use of some color. B&W pages tend to be visually off putting. Maybe a graphic or two. Otherwise, it looks like I am reading a book.
- The page is clean. 3 clicks or less is what I am looking for.
- This page will be really helpful. The current eBenefits site is overwhelming. Too much info. Can spend 20-30 minutes trying to find what I am looking for.
- I would use more common language and less "legalize". The direction this page is going to better. Simpler than the current site.
- Try to find a way to encourage people to use a third party professional to assist them (free). Use the VSOs. There are 5 different ways to get some professional assistance to filling out these applications.
- Would def recommend this site.
- Try to get the VA orgs that provide assistance to sponsor this page.

### Third Task: Wrap-up questions

- I would use more common language and less "legalize". The direction this page is going to better. Simpler than the current site.
- Try to find a way to encourage people to use a third party professional to assist them (free). Use the VSOs. There are 5 different ways to get some professional assistance to filling out these applications.
- Would def recommend this site.
- Try to get the VA orgs that provide assistance to sponsor this page.
