**Notetaker**: Katelyn C

## Notes
9.4.18 — 4:00 PM

### Tell me about yourself
- I am a marine
- I served for 8 years and 8 months
- I was medically retired on September 1st of 2015
- I served in Afghanistan twice and I went on my first deployment with it’s called the Marine expeditionary unit
- I was in the infantry. I think that’s it

### Have you used Vets.gov? Do you have a Vets.gov account?
Yes, I’ve used Vets.gov. Yes, I have an account.
For some reason, [when I try to sign in] it’s taking me back to the verify ID and now I have no access to it. And I tried going through the ID process through the phone to verify information, I took a picture of my ID, I took a picture of my passport. No matter what I do, I can’t verify my identity. I’m a younger veteran, imagine an older veteran that’s not so computer savvy. They’re gonna get stuck. That’s a problem there.

I used vets.gov about 3 times a week. When I first enrolled in school, I was checking to see how my status was for GI Bill.
I also used it for my prescriptions.

## First Task: Find VA Benefits Page.
### Take your time to look through this page, and then tell me — what do you think the purpose of this page is?
I want to say this section might be resources for the VA. On the upper right hand, it talks about the crisis line. It will also tell me where there’s possible VAs around my area. It also probably has something to do with the Vets Center as well.

### What do you think will happen when you click "Select benefits you'd like to learn about"?
Oh I see it. It’s blue. Uh…I’m not sure. I don’t have a comment there. Well I guess from the title itself, I guess it would give me a list of benefits I could click on to get information from what I’m looking for specifically.
It would probably give me information about the GI Bill and what I’m entitled to.
[Participant clicks the link]
Ah. Well this looks like uh…kinda like uh…pre-dash. Well, it says save preferences…if I click on here…is it a multiple click thing? Is it one click and I have to go back?
[Samara says she's more interested in how participant thinks it will work]
Ok, I would like for it to work to save my preferences so when I log back in, it will have whatever I was interested in previously on my homepage

### If you were to select these benefits, would see
Um…probably links to how I can get more information about it

### What do you think we mean by “help you get started”?
Well guiding you through the process of pretty much what I selected. Like a prompt screen to where I can type in my information and it will take me through the process of applying.

### Do the options listed here cover circumstances that feel relevant to you personally?
Yes. Well, the main things I would be interested in would be the careers, education. These are the things that I’m interested in right now in the time of my life that I’m at. This is pretty self explanatory and very related to what I’m looking for.

### Are these options relevant to you in the past?
Yes. When I first trying to find my first home, I guess I see here the housing assistance…it says “find build buy.” It (housing assistance) would’ve been very beneficial to me. If I had known it was on the website like this, I would’ve clicked it to find out more. .This is pretty much all I would be interested in at the moment

### What do you think would happen if you click save preferences?
It would probably take me to a page that would only talk about these three things I’ve clicked here.

### What do you think will happen if you click Cancel?
It would clear everything out. It would probably take me to a new page. To the page where it discusses health care...
[Samara clarifies the question]
No, if I clicked cancel, it would clear out the boxes and leave me on this page.

### How can this page be improved?
It would be nice if there was more information. You know when a bubble would come out with information?
[Samara asks "what kind of information?"]
Like what exactly, what kind of healthcare. Like what kind of coverage, like basic coverage. Cause like the education and training, what if I want more information about the GI Bill? It would be nice to know before I click on it. Like just basic information. I think that would be more preferred.

### What about this page worked well?
This is really easy to click on.
Is the lag (on the screen) because I am controlling yours?
[Samara answers "yes"] 
Okay. It’s just really accessible.

## Second Task: Dashboard
### Take a look at the Find VA Benefits section. Is this what you expected to see after clicking Save Preferences?
Yes. I like that these hyperlinks that I can click to see if I’m even eligible for health care, and what kind. Yeah, these are kind of basic, the information I would like to know. I really like that. (referring to the accordions on this page) I believe if I click the negative button, it will close it and I will be able to click on something else and expand it.

### Is this content helpful or unhelpful in guiding you on how to apply? Why or why not?
Yes I believe it would be helpful because if I click on the first one it would tell me what guidelines I would need to get benefits .

### Is there anything you would expect that isn’t here?
No this is pretty self explanatory the way it is.

### Do you think content would be helpful or unhelpful in guiding you to apply for disability?
Yes, this would be very helpful because it states I can find out how to apply. So who, what, where, when, and why is pretty much explained here which is good. I like that.

### How would you open the Disability Compensation content? How would you close it?
This is pretty self-explanatory. It would work like the housing did as well.

### Is this content helpful or unhelpful in guiding you on how to apply? Why or why not?
Yes, I think that it is very helpful and just like the previous two boxes it also tells me how I can found out if I am eligible. I also like the compare schools and tuition costs. You can only find out so much online but this thing has it all right here and hopefully I click on it and it tells me what’s what.

### How would you remove Education and Training from the homepage?
Well I would click and go back. No, I would probably click this little icon on the right and just unlike it and save the preferences again.

### How would you change the benefits you’re interested in?
Oh, I didn’t see that. I think it would do the same thing I just explained.

### How would you remove it?
I would click on it and I would click save. I would go back in, click on it again and save.

### In real life, what might cause you to add or remove a block from the Find VA Benefits section of your homepage?
Probably if I have gotten what I needed and no longer need the services, I would take it off and either add something or just leave it off. For instance, maybe the education I would be on a break, I probably wouldn’t want to hear about education. Or perhaps I may have graduated already. Or I just don’t need it anymore, I would probably take it off.
Maybe something else has come up that I need easy access to. And I would just change the benefits that I added.

### Now let's assume you clicked "Apply?" What do you think would happen next?
Well I would like for it to stay so that I could track it without keep adding the benefits back.

### Do you think this block on the homepage would change or stay the same after you started an application?
I think it would change from apply to check state.

### How can this page be improved?
I think this is self-explanatory and easy to navigate.

### What worked well?
How everything’s compact, and the sub links to it. I like the overall accessibility to it.

## Wrap Up Questions
### Do you think this is a helpful or unhelpful approach to help people get started learning about or applying for VA benefits? Why?
Yes. I’m a firm believer that if it can be done online, then there's no reason to do it in person. Going to the VA in person is difficult because you know the lines, the wait. I just think online is easier.

### Do you think this tool would have been helpful or not to you in the past when you were trying to learn about and apply for benefits?
Yes, this tool would have been very useful. Even when I was going through the retirement process, I had a case manager. But for those veterans that don’t have a case manager, especially when you are applying for health care benefits, you know that’s an anxious time. I think if that healthcare section turned into a status bar, I think that would alleviate the stress for the veteran themselves so they could check status without calling and bothering someone.

### In what ways can we better surface benefits so they are easier for veterans and service members to find and understand? This could be on this website or offline.
I believe it would be better if when we go to schedule appointments that if they told us then and there at the reception desk that this exists. I think the word of mouth from the actual representative would be nice. If you tell somebody that you can do the same thing minus the wait online, they obviously would want to check it out. It’s very time consuming to apply for benefits. Filling out paperwork, waiting for snail mail takes time - online would make the process easier.

### In what ways can we better help people through the application process? This could be on this website or offline.
Probably have like a video or a tutorial on how to get the benefit itself would be really helpful for the veterans, especially the ones that just don’t get stuff like this on the page. You can take people through the step-by-step process.
You know, in the upper right corner “click here to know how to apply” - something like that would be really beneficial.

### Would you recommend or not recommend the experience we just looked at to a fellow veteran to help them apply for or explore a benefit they are interested in?
Yes I would definitely recommend it cause like I said, going through the benefits process is a very stressful time. You know, without having to speak to someone I can go through the process without having to wait, be put on hold, then be told that person is not there and they’re the only one who can tell me anything. 

### Any last questions for me? 
No, I just hope that this was helpful.
