**Notetaker**: Emily W

## Notes
9.5.18 — 8:00 AM

## Warm-up Questions (2 minutes)

### Before we start, can you tell me a little bit about yourself? 

I served in 93-99, medically retired in 99. Went into the VA for medical beginning in 2000. I did the papework because I was being med-boarded (?). As far as other benefits I've used are the home loans and then using the medical system.

### Do you have a Vets.gov account? If so, about how often do you use the website?

Yes, I've used vets.gov before and I have an account. 

### How often do you log in?

Maybe once a month I'm on there. If I need to re-order prescriptions I go on there, or when I filed for the increase of my disability rating, I monitored the progress of the paperwork through there.

## First Task: Find VA Benefits Page.

#### Ok, we're going to sign into Vets.gov today in this prototype. Click sign in for me.

Please don't make me sign in because I'll have to go find my login and password and I don't recall any of that.

#### You are in luck because oday, we're going to sign in through MyHealtheVet, so you can go ahead and click that for me. Since this is a prototype and not your actual account, we've put in a mock email address here, and you'll see mock data in the prototype that is different from the data in your real account. 

#### Now you are on your homepage. I'd like to draw your attention to the Find VA Benefits section at the top of this page:

#### What do you think this section might do?

"Find VA Benefits?" What I would assume it would do is... Most likely just be a page with a brief description of what the benefit is and most likely a link to additional information.

#### What do you think will happen when you click "Select benefits you'd like to learn about"?

Uh... Not sure. By selecting benefits I'm not sure if it would give you the list of what's out there of what's available... that's what I would assume. All available benefits, not just the ones I have taken advantage of. A list of which ones are available and links to additional information about them.

#### If you were to see this in real life, under what circumstances would you be interested in clicking "Select benefits you'd like to learn about" and using the Find VA Benefits tool?

If I was looking for something I wasn't aware of, if I wanted to take advantage of other benefits that are out there for me. I've only been on there to track claims and refill prescriptions, I would assume I would be finding things that I was unaware of.

#### OK, you can click "Select benefits you'd like to learn about" now.

### Find VA Benefits Questions

#### First, take a look at this page and tell me what the purpose of this page is.

Can you scroll down on it or is that everything? [Scrolls]

I would assume what you're doing is selecting benefits you want more information on. It gives broad categories of what's out there. If I selected that, you'd get a breakdown on Education and a breakdown on Training. I scroll down and click save preferences, its going to remember that on my account. It will populate that back to your home screen or give you links to the additional information.

#### The directions say "Tell us which benefits you're interested in, so we can help you apply. Select one or more of the types of benefits below, and we'll help you get started." What do you think this means? How do you think we'll help you "get started"?

That I don't know... How you'll help me get started. Does it... Me thinking if I selected Disability Compensation, to help me get started, it might tell me what I need to do, provide the form... What information I need to provide, what medical records or previous claims I might need to include in that. Careers and Employment... I don't know if it would just give me a link to something else, or job-seeking tips and tricks. I'm not sure how it would help me get started, I should say.

#### How would you select benefits you're interested in?

I'm supposing that I'm selecting items I want to learn more about... None of those are links, and it doesn't say it's going to take me anywhere to get more info so I'm assuming its going to populate on my home screen and give me a descriptor or a link on my home page that will link back to each individual one. This is like a menu of what's available and once I save, the benefits will be listed on my home page and I'll be able to go into each one there.

#### OK, please also select disability and then education and training.
  
[Selects and clicks Save preferences]
  
#### I'd like you to take a scan through the options on this page. Do you feel like the options we've listed here cover circumstances that feel personally relevant to you currently? 
  
Um... Most of them, some are not relevant to me personally. I already have a job and career, don't need additional education and training. I already have a Masters. I don't have any appeals, but it might be relevant later. I have disability compensation and health care. Housing assistance I don't need at this time... Family and Caregiver and Pensions would be the ones I'm most interested in personally. For most Vets that covers the majority of things they would be interested in. For me personally I don't think so.
  
#### Do they cover circumstances that have been personally relevant/important to you in the past?
  
Yes, yes. Not all of them but the majority, yes. When I first got out, yes.

#### Is there anything that is important to you that you'd expect to see here but don't?
  
[Pauses] Um... No. The only thing that... I know it's the VA and a government agency, but I don't know if they would have links to Service Organizations like DAV, American Legion. I konw those are separate organizations, most Vets want to know what the organizations are that are available especially when you are doing your appeals or initial claim. It is something that interests Veterans.

#### Without clicking anything, what do you think will happen when you click Save Preferences?

I saw what happened already but kinda what I said before - that it would save my preferences to my home page.

Save preferences is a little different than get started. I don't know if it will take me to the home page, maybe it will populate... I assume it's going to include those preferences on my home page or landing page when I log in. Having it say that doesn't match up with "We'll help you get started." Get started makes it sound like it is going ot help me begin the process. 

#### Without clicking anything, what do you think will happen if you click Cancel?

I think it would just go back to the home page and you would go back to where you are after you log in and put in your password before we clicked Find VA Benefits.

#### How can this page be improved?

I like it because it is very straightforward, you don't have to drill down and through lots of links and sublinks. It's straightforward with the brief descriptor, I don't think you need a help or anther tool function. Just leave it as it is for me.

#### What about this page worked well?

Um... the layout I thnk is good, nothing distracting it. Like I said there are brief descriptors, it's straightforward. Not a lot of language or sets of links, just here are the options that are available to me.

#### OK, now please click Save Preferences.

[Clicks Save Preferences button]

## Second Task: Dashboard (~8 minutes) 

#### Take a look at the Find VA Benefits section. Is this what you expected to see after clicking Save Preferences?

[Scrolls through, clicks to open blocks]
  
Yeah it looks like everything I would expect to see on there. The brief links to additional information.
  
#### You can see that we've opened the top block — Healthcare — but Disability Compensation and Education and Training were originally closed. Why do you think that is? Would you prefer to see a different presentation — like all blocks open or closed — when you come to your homepage?  

Me personally, I like to see them all open. Just because I like to be able to go in and look immediately without clicking and being rerouted back. I like seeing them open when I initially land there. That's just my personal preference.

#### Take a look at the Healthcare block. Is this content helpful or unhelpful in guiding you on how to apply? Why or why not?

The only thing I think is missing under the heading from the descriptor is... Oh maybe its there, maybe I read it too fast. Well I think it's um... Just because of my experience, I think the... It's a little misleading, saying "...and appoinments with specialists." I've received regular checkups through my specialist. I go to a GI doctor which is the reason of my disability. It's not really a specialist appointment, that's who I have regular checkups and care with is my specialist. It's a little misleading to say that it's something additional. I don't go to my PCP for regular checkups, I haven't seen them in 2 years for regular care. It's easier for me to go to a local physician, but I do have regular appointments with a specialist. It's not just appointments, it's regular checkups and regular care for... Regular care provided by a specialist.

#### Is there anything else that is missing that should be there to help you apply?

I don't know where it would be listed, but... [Reads links] If there is a link about what you need. You don't want to start the process and find out you need a whole bunch of other paperwork. I don't know if that's there or if you... um... if there is... Again, I went right into the system so I don't know. But if you are beginning the process. Seeing if you are eligible, but how do you know which hospital or care facility you are going ot go to? Maybe that's contained in those links. How do you make an appointment to begin the process? I know how to apply online but there is nothing there that implies that I'm going to talk to a healthcare provider or schedule an appointment with someone who does the initial analysis or screen for whatever your claims are. It doesn't tell me the closest facility. I know I can do it on Google to find the nearest VA hospital but it would be good to tell me that here maybe.

#### How would you open the Disability Compensation content? Is this content helpful or unhelpful in guiding you on how to apply? Why or why not?

No, that one is... I like. I didn't have any questions. I like the phrasing and it seems like the sublinks would answer all of your questions. If you are eligible, the claim types, how to file, working with a professional. I like all of that. 

#### Anything missing?

Not for this one, no.

#### Now please open Education and Training for me. Is this content helpful or unhelpful in guiding you on how to apply? Why or why not?

No I like that group. I like the "Find out what to expect after you apply." That might be good under the Compensation one as well, that same information. Maybe it is contained within those sublinks. I also like the "Compare schools, costs and benefits offered" I don't know how you do that the way schools raise their tuitions but I like that link. I like that there are different Veteran benefits because I did not pay into the Post 9/11 bill. Those are good categories to have too. The Voc Rehab is interesting too, that's good to have as well.

#### How would you remove Education and Training from the homepage?

Well I don't think you can remove it fully but just clicking on the minus sign would roll it back up, or it should.

#### So you can remove it entirely, kf you had to guess how would you do it?

I would assume you would have to go back to preferences to unselect it. But I don't know... [Scrolls up] Oh there, Change benefits youre interested in.

[Clicks]

I would say "Unselect it" and save preferences again.

[Clicks the checkbox, clicks the Save prefs button]

#### How would you add Education and Training back to your homepage?

Same thing, cilck on "Change benefits youre interested in."

#### In real life, what might cause you to add a block from the Find VA Benefits section of your homepage?

Um... I might have a discussion with another Veteran that tells me about a benefit they are receiving. Maybe a family member like my father-in-law who was a Vietnam Veteran, he tells me about benefits that he gets through the VA. Or if there is a change to the disability raiting like there are some that are only avaliable for people with a certain percentage or more.

#### What might cause you to remove a block from the Find VA Benefits section of your homepage?

Again just not interested at this time. Looking at... burials, you might want information on that as you advance in years or if you are diagnosed with something, you might want to go back and change it and get additional information on it. But if you are reading about it and know you aren't eligible, you might not want it popping up every time so you could remove it.

#### Now let's assume you clicked "Apply?" What do you think would happen next? Do you think this block on the homepage would change or stay the same after you started an application?

It would be nice if it changed to reference that stuff. I don't know how personalized it is by each individual within the VA system, but it would be nice if you have started a process that the link changed to "See status" or "Get update" or "Check progress on your claim" or something like that.

#### How can this page be improved?

Um... give me one second. I like it, you try and make too many changes and you run the risk of having too much information overload. I like it, it's simple, I like how you can add benefits or change them, change your preferences. [Scrolls] I don't know how the connect with us really works... I dont think there is online assistance, I don't think that's within the VA's budget to provide online assistance. I think the descriptors are good, I like the layout and links. I wouldn't make any changes to it.

#### Anything you wnt to add to how it work well?

No I don't think it needs to be changed. As I scroll more, I see other links that are useful [reads global navigation links], I think that's all good.

## Third Task: Wrap-up questions (~8 minutes)

#### Now I want to ask you some questions about the overall experience we just went through today. Do you think this is a helpful or unhelpful approach to help people get started learning about or applying for VA benefits? Why?

I think it's helpful, yes. I think it would make a great class to teach at military bases for people that are leaving. As they are processing out, whether they are injured in a hospital, having an online tutorial as you are applying to benefits. A simple walkthrough about how to add preferences is good. I think tjhat's the best way to reach new Veterans. Even someone who is doing it online, it might be nice to have a short tutorial where there not clicking on anything but you are showing them how to add benefits.

#### Do you think this tool would have been helpful or not to you in the past when you were trying to learn about and apply for benefits?

It wouldn't have been helpful just because of the era when I got out. Web pages were very clumsy and we had dial-up internet. It was much easier to go in person to a service organization to find out what the benefits are. It's nice now, the layout and tool for current times and current technology. I would've liked to have something like this when I got out because I had to go in person, or call, or find out via word of mouth, or request the big book that the VA mails to people. So I definitely think this is helpful. But it wouldn't have been helpful when I got out, out of realism because the technology wasn't there. 

#### In what ways can we better surface benefits so they are easier for veterans and service members to find and understand? This could be on this website or offline.

Um... I think for Veterans, you've got ot take a double-edged approach. Looking at the generational gap's comfort with technology and computers for Vets. I know there are lots of older Vets who don't like using computers. My father who is a Korean War Vet doesn't like using computers. Having sutff through mail or service providers, or VA service officers who have information. And also where the populations of Veterans are. There are lots of Veteranss who live in places that don't have lots of technology or fast internet or resources so it's nice to have stuff that's avialable for people who like to hold papers in their hands. We say "dead trees": some people like to see things in dead tree rather than online.

#### In what ways can we better help people through the application process? This could be on this website or offline.

I liked it online, under the GI Bill, "What to expect next after you apply." I think that's the biggest question Veterans have once you submit an application. I think the appeals process is fairly well-documented. If I go and apply for travel benefits and get denied, I know what to do. "How long is it going to take before I hear something?" is something people ask. What are the next steps in the process, anticipated time, how do I check status... If status is denied, the VA is very good at giving information about how to appeal that ruling. I think just "in-the-process" information is beneficial.

#### Would you recommend or not recommend the experience we just looked at to a fellow veteran to help them apply for or explore a benefit they are interested in?

Yes, I would. Veterans that I run into are younger guys who recently exited active duty service. I would definitely recommend that to them as a genearational comfort with technology. I would recommend that they use this web portal for this information.

#### [Wrap up]
