**Notetaker**: Emily W.

## Notes
9.5.18 — 4:00 PM

## Warm-up Questions (2 minutes)

### Before we start, can you tell me a little bit about yourself? (If stuck, prompt to ask about service experience, where they live, their work).

I am service connected, 90%. And... I don't know much else to tell. 

### Do you have a Vets.gov account? If so, about how often do you use the website?

Have I used what? Oh, yes I've gone to it but haven't used it a lot.

### Do you have an account?

I think I do, yes.

[Screensharing setup]

## First Task: Find VA Benefits Page.

### Ok, we're going to sign into Vets.gov today in this prototype. Click sign in for me.

[Clicks sign in]

### Today, we're going to sign in through MyHealtheVet, so you can go ahead and click that for me. Since this is a prototype and not your actual account, we've put in a mock email address here, and you'll see mock data in the prototype that is different from the data in your real account. OK, you can continue signing in.

### Now you are on your homepage. I'd like to draw your attention to the Find VA Benefits section at the top of this page:

### What do you think this section might do?

Um... Oh, okay. What do I think it may do? To probably explain to me what benefits are available or may be available to me. 

### What do you think will happen when you click "Select benefits now"?

I would think a page would open up with a page with benefits that are available to me and select one and get more information about it or sign up for it.


### If you were to see this in real life, under what circumstances would you be interested in clicking "Select benefits you'd like to learn about" and using the Find VA Benefits tool?

Just that if I was in need or looking for say school or whatever and looking for more information, that would be a time I would go there and try to see what I need to do or how to go about getting those benefits.

### OK, you can click "Select benefits you'd like to learn about" now. First, take a look at this page and tell me what you see here.

### Take your time to look through this page, and then tell me — what do you think the purpose of this page is?

Uh okay, I would think it's the information on whichever benefit it is and possibly apply for it.

### The directions say "Tell us which benefits you're interested in, so we can help you apply. Select one or more of the types of benefits below, and we'll help you get started." What do you think this means? How do you think we'll help you "get started"?

Um... It means, pick the benefit I'm interested in seeking, and check it, and from there I'm guessing it would take me to some online form starting to apply for it. Maybe some online form or... some way of applying for it through the website.

### Select healthcare, disability, and then education and training.

[Clicks the checkboxes]

### I'd like you to take a scan through the options on this page. Do you feel like the options we've listed here cover circumstances that feel personally relevant to you currently?

Yes, it does. I think so. 

### Why is that? Tell me more.

Pretty much everything I've had to deal with the VA is on this page. I've been interested in health care, disability and education, and all that is here. 

### Do these cover circumstances that have been personally relevant/important to you in the past?

Yes. Like I just said, the things I do at the VA now are the health care, well I wouldn't have to get coverage, I already got it now but at one point I did. Same thing with disability, go on the website and get the benefit. Same with education, didn't pan out yet. 

### Is there anything that is important to you that you'd expect to see here but don't?

No ma'am, nothing I can think of.

### Without clicking anything, what do you think will happen when you click Save Preferences?

Uh... Not sure, I would expect instead of save preferences maybe "Continue" or "Next". Save Preferences kind of throws me off, not sure what to expect. 

### If you had to guess, what would you say?

Maybe go to a secondary page that discusses those options that I've checked or selected.

### Without clicking anything, what do you think will happen if you click Cancel?

Probably just deselect what I have selected and maybe return to the previous page or the home page.

### How can this page be improved?

I can't think of anything to improve it.

### What about this page worked well?

What's the word I'm looking for... It's not to jumbled up, it's simple and to the point. It gives you the option to check whatever you need and continue on. Not throwing too much at you at one time.

### OK, now please click Save Preferences.

### Alright, now we are on your homepage. Take a look at the Find VA Benefits section. Is this what you expected to see after clicking Save Preferences?

Okay. [Pauses, scrolls]

Well I selected 3 different items, so uh... it's talking about health care, I was expecting to see something on disability and education as well. 

### Did you scroll?

I did and I didn't see... It seemed that it was talking about account stuff. I briefly scrolled... [Scrolls more]

Oh there's benefits okay I see now. Oh! Okay I see it now, the box underneath. I looked right past that.

### Is this what you expected to see?

I really didn't have much expectations, so.

### Do you feel like what you see now makes sense to you as a next step?

Seems to make sense.

### You can see that we've opened the top block — Healthcare — but Disability Compensation and Education and Training are closed right now. Why do you think that is? Would you prefer to see a different presentation — like all blocks open or closed — when you come to your homepage?  

I think this is fine, but I did scroll right past it. So I think maybe if it was highlighted a little more somehow. But you know. So I scrolled past it and didn't even notice it. I do like that it has one section open at a time which.. you know. You only worry about one thing at a time. When you're ready to go into disability you can expand it or whatever.

### Take a look at the Healthcare block. Is this content helpful or unhelpful in guiding you on how to apply? Why or why not?

Okay. Yeah I think it would be hugely beneficial.

### Why?

It answers the most basic questions - to see if you're eligible, then I'm assuming that's a tutorial on how to apply. And it also shows you what kind of services are offered, and then there's a big green apply button so you can apply right here on this site, this same page.

### Anything you'd expect to see but you aren't seeing?

No ma'am.

### Now let's open the Disability block. Is this content helpful or unhelpful in guiding you on how to apply? Why or why not?

Okay. [Pauses, reads.] Yeah it seems to have everything covered, everything I can think of right now. As far as the links... You're able to file right here on the website.

### Anything you'd expect to see but you aren't seeing?

No ma'am.

### Now please open Education and Training for me. Is this content helpful or unhelpful in guiding you on how to apply? Why or why not?

It looks like it would be helpful.

### Anything you'd expect to see but you aren't seeing?

No ma'am.

### How would you remove Education and Training from the homepage?

I would think to hit the back button and deselect it.

### If you had to find a link on this page to get you to that other page, how would you do that?

I would click back. Oh I see now, "Change benefits you're interested in."

### Give that a try.

Want me to deselect it?

### Yes.

And save again?

### Yes.

### How would you add Education and Training back to your homepage?

Same way, go back to "Change benefits you're interested in."

### In real life, what might cause you to add a block from the Find VA Benefits section of your homepage?

As you're scrolling along, you tihnk of something else you may want to apply for and get information on. I think it was Disability, it mentioned something about vocational... Anyway it's not clicking but earlier it seemed to be something about Vocational Rehab if you're service-connected. After reading that, I'd want to go back and see if there is any way I could get more information on that.

### In real life, what might cause you to remove a block from the Find VA Benefits section of your homepage?

Information I'm not interested in. Soethign I'm no longer interested in, just kind of in the way if you will.

### Now let's assume you clicked "Apply?" What do you think would happen next? Do you think this block on the homepage would change or stay the same after you started an application?

Change... to maybe something like, "Continue" - if you are like, not completed if you haven't completed the application. Something like "Continue" or "Complete the application" or if it is completed, maybe it might be available.

### How can this page be improved?

I can't think of any way, I'm sorry. Well I think one thing that could be improved would be box that the health care benefits are in could be a little brighter or something. Because when it was not expanded, I breezed right passed it and didn't even notice it at first.

### What about this page worked well?

It looks good and it looks kind of simple, easy to read. It's laid out pretty well. 

## Third Task: Wrap-up questions (~8 minutes)

### Now I want to ask you some questions about the overall experience we just went through today. Do you think this is a helpful or unhelpful approach to help people get started learning about or applying for VA benefits? Why?

As far as helping people... I think it's kind of neutral. 

### Why?

I just think most people prefer to go get some sort of help from someone. At least in my experience, most people go through like the BAV (?) or something to get help, and don't spend a lot of time on the webpage.

### Do you think this tool would have been helpful or not to you in the past when you were trying to learn about and apply for benefits?

I think it would've been very helpful for me. It is just the way I prefer to do things via a computer, versus going and sitting down at someone's desk and getting help.

### You mentioned it's a neutral experience... Tell me more about that.

I think that's what it boils down to, I think some people just feel more comfortable getting help from someone who they deem very knowledgeable or an expert.

### In what ways can we better surface benefits so they are easier for veterans and service members to find and understand? This could be on this website or offline.

Nothing I can think of.

### In what ways can we better help people through the application process? This could be on this website or offline.

I can't think of any way to improve it, just taking people step-by-step through the process.

### Would you recommend or not recommend the experience we just looked at to a fellow veteran to help them apply for or explore a benefit they are interested in?

I would recommend it. I think it's simpler to just try and do it this way. Through the website, and I think it just simplifies the whole process.

### Wrap up
