# VSA - Facility Locator: KPI Setting (as of December 6, 2019)

## Product Line
- Unauthenticated Experience

## North Star: (WIP)
- Veterans have the information they need to be prepared to visit a VA facility.
  - *How will we know if the Veteran is prepared? It may depend on the type of facility.*
  - *For urgent care, success is defined as the Veteran downloading the benefit eligibility PDF.*
  - *For other facility types, we will look for an average 4 star rating or above.*
 
## Product
- Facility Locator 

## High Level Objective
- Provide a single, consolidated place across VA.gov where Veterans and beneficiaries can easily find and understand high-level information about facilities offering priority VA benefits and services. 

## KPIs and OKRs

### Objective 1: Improve Veteran search experience (as of December 6, 2019)

**KPI 1** Number of known (legacy) usability and accessibility defects

**Key Results**
- 100% of [known (legacy) usability and accessibility defects](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/blob/master/products/facilities/facility-locator/product/kpi.md#legacy-known-issues-referenced-in-objective-1) are resolved by April 1, 2020.

**KPI 2** Time to return search results

**Key Results**
- Search performance will be measurable by facility type and “category of care” by April 1, 2020. 
  - Future: Decreasing the time for delivering search results to <2-3s. 

**KPI 3** Rate of VHA search refinements

**Key Results**
- The rate of search refinements for VA Health will be 2% or lower by July 1, 2020.  

**KPI 4** User satisfaction ratings

**Key Results**
- A baseline rate for 5 star user satisfaction will be established by April 1, 2020. 

### Objective 2: Reform Community Care implementation (as of December 6, 2019)

**KPI 1** Rate of Community Care search refinements

**Key Results**
- The rate of search refinements for Community Care will be at parity with VA facility searches by July 1, 2020. 

**KPI 2** All urgent care searches will be performed using the modernized Facility Locator by February 2, 2020. 

**Key Results**
- Removal of TriWest locator link
- A baseline for the percentage of users searching for urgent care who view the benefit page (link provided by OCC) will be established by March 15, 2020.
  - Future: increase % with future UX iterations 

### Objective 3: Improve data quality (as of December 6, 2019)

**KPI** Complete and accurate data 

**Key Results**
- The number of missing expected data elements will decrease by 50% by July 1, 2020.

## "Assumed" Pain Points
- Finding a facility (with Facility Locator or outside of Facility Locator) is frustrating for Veterans. The process is lengthy and not always successful.
- Searching for a facility often requires use of more than one Facility Locator, resulting in inconsistent presentation of information and confusing navigation. 
- Search results can be incomplete and/or incorrect with high latency/timeouts
- Information presented can be easily misunderstood or incomplete, may not represent what is actually offered

## Hypotheses
- By reducing the bottleneck at the API gateway (Kong) and implementing other performance improvements, we expect search performance to be on par with private sector industry standards to deliver a best in class experience and been seen as a trusted, reliable source. 
- By incorporating Urgent care information into the Facility Locator, we expect Veterans to find, understand and utilize information for these services more quickly. 
- By implementing Health Services taxonomy, we expect Veterans to be able to search and identify the VAMC that provides the services they seek.  
- By conducting research, we can test our assumptions about user pain points.

### Legacy [Known Issues](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/issues/4027) referenced in Objective 1: 
- ["Invalid date" Time Display on Facility Locator Hours](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/issues/4000)
- [Small change to display of hours](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/issues/3541)
- [Facility locator fires multiple searches per user action](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/issues/3206)
- [Facility Locator breaks on resize](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/issues/1693)
- [Facility Locator - linked map pin goes to page without main content](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/issues/2792)
- [Search for dropdown text is read aloud each time a letter is entered into Search city... input](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/issues/529)
- [The map is announcing a lot of extra data on focus and each droplet needs a usable name](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/issues/515) 
- [Facility locator is not announcing the current page when there are more than one page of results](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/issues/713)
- [ Add Time Zones to Facility Hours](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/issues/3530)
- [Search results discrepancy between map and list](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/issues/2701)
- ["Please call" text change (grammar) on Facility Locator Detail page](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/issues/3907) 
