
### Session 1
May 30, 2018
1:00pm ET
Test name: HCA submission failure flow

Vets.gov home page - mobile

Q: We are going to look at these screens today. You may recognize this home page. We are going to pretend you’re applying to healthcare on vets.gov. You can navigate to the healthcare application however you’d like. You can scroll down, you have an application already started, and we want to continue it.

(Clicks main blue button)
(Clicks continue)
(Clicks privacy policy confirmation)
(Clicks submit and scrolls)
(Confirmation screen appears)

Q: Take a look at this page. We’ve update the copy here, tell me what you see and what you think we’re trying to communicate.

(Scrolls up and down)

How long it’s going to take them to process the application and expectations about when I’m going to hear back.

Q: If something went wrong, how would you expect to find out?

Based on current interactions with the VA, I think I’ll get an email telling me that some current records are missing and that I’ll get notified that I’ll need to follow up somehow. Because that’s how every interaction goes with the VA

Q: In that case, what would you do next?
I would probably leave the website and anticipate that I would have the confirmation number emailed to me so I could follow up later, and I don’t think I would need to do anything now.

Q: Look at the first paragraph. Did you notice that it said you were going to get an email?

Yes but I assumed since it says my claim has been submitted that it went through. I don’t understand why it wouldn’t have gone through because it says its been submitted.

Q: What do you think it’s communicating?

That there’s an additional step, and if there’s a problem with it then I’ll get an email.

Q: Why do you think it might not go through?

I have no idea

Q: Take a guess.

Um I would assume that they would have to validate some form on the back end not in real time, pulling information from the VA record before it is officially submitted. From a Vet perspective, I submit claims on e-benefits and vets.gov - my interaction to submit the claim is done. It doesn’t say to me that it’s in progress or it may not go through. On e-benefits - it says pending if its pending. It says completed if it’s complete. If it’s pending it’s sometimes because the back-end systems don’t work

Q: Is there anything we could do to make it more clear?

(Highlights the “Your claim has been submitted” line and “We usually process” line)

The step that it’s in is in some sort of application receiving phase, not submitted yet. Your application has been sent to the VA and we’ll notify you if it can be completed as is. We’ll notify you if we need more information to be submitted. This is key from interactions with ebenefits and other VA sites, which are fresh in my mind.

Q: We are going to imagine that it’s been a few days and you’ve gotten an email from the VA, take a look and tell me what it’s trying to communicate.

(Clicks through to email from VA)

It’s trying to tell me something went wrong with the system and I have to start my application over.

Q: Does this email match your expectation of what you would get if something were to fail or go wrong on VA side?

No.

So I get the automated and help line part. “We didn’t receive you application” — that’s not true, I submitted and you got it and I got a confirmation page and confirmation number. You definitely got it. [It should say something like] There was a problem with your application and you need to address that. Looks to me like there was no data saved and you need to start the entire application over.

This would be infuriating if I got this email, I would be really upset.

I don’t know if there is an option, but if I were to get this email my first reaction would be “Why didn’t I have an option to save or print my application so I don’t lose it?” Or print everything I have filled out. Why do I have to start over? Maybe there are those options in there, but I didn’t log in and save or know that.

Q: What if you had been logged in?

I would be really upset if I had been logged in. This is a total failure. I did the work, I submitted the application and you obviously received it and now it’s gone. I don’t know if we have PII problems but you have my email address. Can’t you at least send me my answers or the completed form so that when I go to fill it out again it would be easier? If I were a different Vet than myself, most people I work with aren’t as computer savvy as I am, and i could fill it out again really quickly. But I would think, the web way doesn’t work, I just want to print it and take it to my nearest medical center. 

If it were to say, “We’re really sorry this wasn’t able to be completed online, you can print it and take it to this address,” that would be really satisfying to me.

How do I know it’s not going to fail again? Why is the system designed in such a way that you a have all my information and application and you obviously did receive it? Can I mail it in instead?

Q: So in terms of how you could change this to make it better: Print, get access to your data again and have a meaningful next step.

I think the automated email part is important to the follow up. I would be really deliberate with this [phone] number. I would think, the internet doesn’t work now. I need another option - the confirmation code isn’t in here, the next logical step isn’t going to be filling it out again, it would be calling this number but i don’t have a code to reference.

Q: Any other thoughts on this email or process?

This is a really hairy problem.
