### Session 3

May 31, 2018

1:00pm ET

Test name: HCA submission failure flow (?)

Q: I’m going to send you a link and pass presenter roles to you, here’s the prototype.

(Sends link)

Q: This is the vets.gov homepage. I’m sure you’ve seen this before. Today we’re going to pretend you’re applying for healthcare on vets.gov. So navigate to the healthcare application however you see fit.

Okay. So I want to apply for health care This option looks attractive so I’ll click on that.

(Clicks “Apply for health care” button)

Q: You already have an application started so you want to go ahead and continue working on that.

Ok so we have the in progress notice that tells me where I’m at, so I’m just going to click on Continue the application and not even read this stuff down here.

(Scrolls quickly to the bottom of the page, then back up to the call to action)

Q: Ok so today we’re going to imagine you’ve already filled out the application, and pretend that you’re at the final step before you submit it.

Okay.

Q: So feel free to review information or you can just submit when you’re ready.

Okay so I’m not looking for anything in particular, these are helpful. 

(Clicks open the first review block)

Okay cool.

(Scrolls down to bottom of “Veteran Information” review block) 

Going to check that out because I know that can seriously delay things with these, so I’d look that over one more time, and check all that. I like that it tells me where I’m at in the process. Step 6 of 6 is good. 

(Clicks privacy policy checkbox) 

This is good that it tells me that it’s saved so in case anything goes wrong, I don’t lose anything, that’s nice. So I would just submit.

(Clicks submit)

Q: Take a look over this page and tell me what it’s trying to communicate.

Okay so it’s telling me, acknowledging that I submitted the claim, I’m assuming they have received it then... And I like that it is telling me a time so there’s an expectation set there. It’s giving me a next step to look out for so I can look out for that email. So yeah this just looks like a confirmation page with some follow up details. Its not just a one and done, fire and forget, that’s a military term... I don’t know what the equivalent is. So there’s something to do and I can follow up on it if I get lost or if it is taking longer than a week, I have this phone number. There are options which is good.

Q: What would you expect to happen next?

I would think i’m waiting, waiting for that email and if I don’t see that email within a week, I would check out the phone number and call that help desk since that’s the one that’s presented here. I could click on this 

(Clicks “find out what happens after you apply” link) 

Is that active or no?

Q: No, not in this prototype.

I would click on the find out what happens link. If I was grazing over this casually, I would think, okay I’m waiting for the email within one week, okay great that’s done. Without prompting, I don’t know if I would’ve clicked on that.

Q: What would you do next if anything?

I would either click on this link or probably bounce off the page. Maybe I’d go back to my account to see if anything has changed and see if there is an updated status.

Q: I’d like you to scroll down, and see the section of the email. Did you notice that it says we would email you if there were a problem with your application, did you notice that before I called it out?

Oh, no. So I misread that and assume I would get the email either way. The first time I read it casually, I read it as I would get that email no matter what, but now it looks like it says I’ll get it only if something goes wrong. “If your application doesn’t go through…”

Q: You are correct, you would get the email either way.

Ok so those are 2 separate emails that are possible.

Q: Yes. Did you notice that before I called it out?

No.

Q: What do you think that’s trying to communicate?

It looks like it’s a way to confirm some kind of trust with the, uh, application system and if there is a problem they will let you know there’s a problem. Sometimes you submit these things and you never hear back from anyone, so you don’t know if it was submitted at all. So this looks like a way to tie that together and close the loop on that information.

Q: Why do you think there might be a chance it wouldn’t go through?

I can think either a technical bug or malfunction with the site, I don’t know if it would take my application if I didn’t fill it out properly since we had that confirmation page. Depending on what kind of validation are on those fields, I don’t know if I submitted some bad information based on the input type...

Q: How does it make you feel that your application might not go through?

Uh I mean at this point, if I did everything right then it should be fine and wouldn’t apply to me. I would feel really bad if I did get that second email and think, “What? I did everything right.” And I would have to go back and troubleshoot that, and it would be frustrating and time consuming. If I found out that it didn’t go through I would probably feel bad about it.

Q: I want to ask about the first line, “Your claim has been submitted.” What does it mean to you?

“Claim has been submitted” means that I… Okay I noticed these words are different. Just because I have submitted it doesn’t mean it’s received or processed. Reading it has been submitted means that everything is good. Knowing what I know from government forms, doesn't mean just because you send an email... It doesn’t mean you can assume someone is receiving and doing anything with it. I think most people would think, “Okay, I’ve submitted, everything is good, and there’s not further action required.” This explanation tells me that there’s maybe more going on and maybe it doesn’t mean that I can kick back and take it easy. I still need to look out for something. What happens if I miss this email? There’s still a call to action or something.

Q: if you got this email that said your application didn’t go through, can you tell me some of your expectations about what would happen next from there?

I’d want that email to address where I’m at with the headpsace that I’m in. And say something like, “This is disappointing, but we can still work it out with these steps.” A clear explanation linked to a clear call to action and probably links in that email to take me exactly where I need to go, so I’m not fishing around for a page or form. So I’m not coming back to the page on my own. Something to guide me exactly where I need to be. It doesn’t have to be long. If there’s a problem the more concise that can be, the better.

Q: Ok. Does this page leave you with any questions from your perspective as a user?

(Scrolls, reads)

I am curious to see where this link would take me after you apply . If this isn’t what happens after I apply... I wonder why it’s separate. 

(Scrolls up to the first paragraph) 

Why is it different? I have an expectation of what would happen and the time frame, and so I’m wondering what else, and if this is more important or less important. I’m assuming it’s not critical since you could go through this without clicking on that link. I wonder what I would be missing out on there. I would wonder if there’s anything that would affect my application. Since you say to print the page for the records this confirmation number and date received, is there anywhere else you can access that. Can I find it in my account somewhere? If I don’t print it is that going to be a problem?

Q: I want to move on to one more thing. Scroll and click the white space below the need help area.

(Scrolls, clicks)

Q: Take a look through this email and tell me what it’s trying to communicate to you.

Okay so this is that second email. Okay so it’s saying something went wrong on the VA side. Oh bummer, we need to start over. Okay. Okay, alright, I’m reading this email as the application I submitted did not go through, nothing was saved, everything was lost and I need to start over from the beginning completely. 

Q: Does this match your expectations of what would happen if an application of yours failed to go through?

Yeah I guess if it was something on the VA side, a little more detail would be helpful there. I would like a link to know... I’ve already done this before so I would want to make it as easy as you can to start over. A link would be helpful, give me that link to go back to it so I could start from here, so there’s not chance of getting lost. (sighs) If I do this all again what’s to say that the application won’t go through again? Is there anything I should do differently to make sure that it would go through? Maybe saying common pitfalls or reasons they get held up? If there is a mistake, it says something went wrong on our end… If I do the same thing will I get the same result? Is there something that you’ve fixed? Is it better to wait? If you corrected a bug that might be helpful to know.

Q: In addition to the things you just mentioned, are there any other questions this email leaves you with?

(Scrolls)

I would be curious to see if I called this number to see if I would get the same level of detail or if they could give me more since this is my only real option here. I can only start over, can’t reply to the email, can’t click on anything - I might be more willing to call that number without links or more resources.

Q: How does it make you feel?

Frustrated, I’ve wasted my time, and also just kind of frustrated with like, going back to the idea that something went wrong on your end so what is going be so different now before going through all that work to re-submit everything? But I guess it’s appreciated and helpful that I do know there was a problem with it and I need to start over, and even though it’s not good news, it’s good that it’s direct and up front with it, so I guess I appreciate that. 

Q: What would you do next?

I would go back and start that application. I might call that number and see if I could get any other details and see if I could know why it didn’t go through.

Q: Are there any other ideas or thoughts you have, other ways you think this would be more helpful or useful?

Um… yeah the links thing would be helpful, maybe some... I’m thinking about uh... Without knowing the cause of it, I guess if it’s not my fault then I guess it’s not helpful to send a ton of resources out that would help or give assistance because if that’s not the problem… maybe that’s not the message. If it’s something on the VA side… maybe just a link back and if there’s any way to salvage any information, that would be helpful but not possible.. I think it’s good, direct and considerate and tells me what I need to do.

Q: One final question: You're a technical person, how do you think people who are not on our team and are less tech savvy, how do you think they would react to something like this? Are there things we should keep in mind? You being a vet and having more insight into this population.

We were looking at some stuff on the site for older folks, and vets from previous generations that are getting older with this kind of stuff and anytime we can make real easy calls to action and walk people through, like a list of 3 steps like even putting these sentences into bullets could help. If my eyesight was bad or a little more white space could be helpful. Otherwise it’s just an email pile of words coming at you all at once. 

The number too, I know we have different ideas about using that number, when to use and how useful it was to solve different types of issues. Is that actually something someone in the call center can help with? Will it make people more frustrated? If they call the call center and go through the work to make that phone call and don’t get any more information and get further help they could get more frustrated. Maybe if the call center has something additional we could put something on there otherwise maybe it doesn’t need to be there at all. I don’t think we have an FAQ about submitting these but maybe that would help. I think the length is right, I think it’s good... It’s not too much info it’s not confusing me, and it’s not unclear about what needs to happen next. If you go back to vets.gov and apply again, I don’t know I’m a veteran but I don’t use the site regularly so I don’t know what page I was supposed to be on, and what page to start the application process so anytime you can put people exactly where they need to be… There is a lot of negative at this point in the experience, maybe just letting them know we are here for them and we are sorry. We want to do everything we can to help you. Even though it didn’t go through the first time, we want to do everything we can to make it a success the next time. Sometimes the VA language, we were talking about making this sound like we are on the same team. Sometimes government forms and things make it seem like us vs. them or like a gotcha - “You didn’t fill out the form right, ha - HA!” This is a great opportunity to build some of that trust and confidence that we want more of and are doing across the site anyway, so.

Q: I don’t have other questions for you. Thank you so much for your your time.

Thanks for reaching out, let me know if I can help out in any way.


