### Session 2

May 31, 2018

11:00am ET

Test name: HCA submission failure flow (?)


Q: I’m going to ask you to share your screen so we can see ou interacting with it.

(Sends link)

Q: This is the vets.gov home page, I’m sure you’ve seen this before. Today we’re going to pretend you’re applying for healthcare on vets.gov. So navigate to the healthcare app however you see fit.

Ummm okay got it
(clicks link)

Q: Okay, so you have an application in progress, and we are going to continue that application.

(Clicks on “In progress” text)

Am I hitting the right spot?

Q: You are, I’m wondering what’s going on. You might want to refresh the page, sometimes Invision is weird.

(Clicks “In progress” text again, nothing happens)

Q: That’s strange.

(Refreshes screen, clicks “In progress” a few more times, scrolls up and down, )

Q: There we go.

Oh yeah I just backspaced, that apparently got me where I needed to go.

Q: If you want to scroll down the page you’ll see you have an application in progress, we are going to scroll down and continue this application.

Okay 
(Scrolls down, clicks continue button)

Q: Alright, in this case we’re not going to watch you fill out the application, we’re going to pretend you are at the final steps getting ready to submit. Click continue to submit unless you have any questions.

(Clicks continue, Review and Submit page loads)

Feel free to review anything, and then feel free to submit the application as well.

(Scrolling round, clicks privacy policy checkbox and clicks submit.)
(Apply for healthcare confirmation page loads)

Q: I want you take a quick look through this page and tell me what this page is trying to communicate.

Okay.

(Scrolls down)

Ok, if you... It’s been turned in, I should hear from someone within a week... I’ll get an email when you get my application. If I screwed up, you’ll let me know, if you need more you’ll let me know.

Q: What you expect to happen next?

That I’ll get an email saying you got my application.

Q: What would you do next?

I’d probably go to my email to see if you already sent a note saying, “Yep, we got it” or to make sure it’s not screwed up.

Q: I want you to scroll up just a little bit. I’d like to draw your attention to the second paragraph. 

Q: (reading) “We’ll send you an email when we successfully receive your application. If your application didn’t successfully go through, we’ll also send you an email letting you know.”

Q: Did you notice that part where it says if your application didn’t go through you would get an email, did you notice that before i mentioned it?

Yes, that’s why I said I would check my email to make sure everything went through okay, I was referring to that.

Q: What do you think this is trying to communicate?

I guess if i think about it hard, I would assume that if I got an email that everything is good, I mean an email saying everything is good, then everything is good. If I got an email saying it didn’t go through, I would know what was going on, but I would also wonder how you would know if it didn’t go through if it didn’t go through.

Q: How does that make you feel, the idea that something might not go through?

You know, I think I’ve used applications like this often enough that there’s sort of an expectation that sometimes it doesn’t work. That doesn’t bother me. I’d rather know.

Q: Ok, if your application didn’t go through and you got an email, what would you expect to happen next?

I’d expect instructions on what to do next in that email.

Q: Are there any questions you have about this page? And if so, how could we better answer those questions?

(Scrolls)

Uh, well i think everything is there. If i didn’t receive an email I would call this number and say do I need to resubmit. Except for I think I would probably want to know how long I should wait before wondering why I haven’t received an email. The difference between processing a claim and receiving an application... Do I check, and if it’s within an hour and I haven’t received an email do I call? Or within 24 hours?

Q: That makes sense. If you could just scroll down the page a little, and click the space below need help.

(Fast forward page loads)

Q: We are going to imagine it’s been a few days and you receive the following email. Click continue whenever you’re ready. 

(Clicks “Continue”)

Q: Now we are looking at the email I mentioned, take a quick look through it and tell me what this email is trying to communicate.

(Scrolls)

Ok, I submitted it, it didn’t go through because of something with the program, and I need to go back and do it again, submit again from the beginning. Yeah.

Q: Does this email match your expectations of what would’ve happened if an application didn’t go through? You already mentioned some sort of follow up on what to do and how to handle it, does this match what you were thinking in that moment?

Yeah, yeah I think so.

Q: What questions does this email leave you with, if any?

Um, I mean i think you’re generally going to wonder what went wrong or what the problem was but ultimately that’s not important, so.

Q: In terms of follow up directions…
Q: (reading) “Please go back to vets.gov and apply again. We’ll send you an email to let you know when we’ve successfully received your application.”
Q: Is that what you would’ve expected, or would you expect there to be other possibilities?

Well, depending on what went wrong, if I filled it out incorrectly and that’s why it didn’t go through then I would want those directions, but this says there was some problem with the VA end. I would probably go back through and fill it out exactly the same way as I did the first time because if that’s what I’m supposed to be doing, then great, that’s what I would do.

Q: How does this email make you feel?

Um probably irritated, but like I said, you have an expectation that things don’t go through sometimes. The “apologize for the inconvenience but you need to start over” line, even making that two sentences would be better - like, “We apologize for the inconvenience.” And then changing that second one to “You’ll need to start again” or something. Together it feels kind of funny to me, I’m not even sure why.

Q: What would you do next form here?

Um, I would go back and fill out the application again. 

Q: And I’m curious, given that we are talking to people internal to this team that has familiarity with the tools and are more tech savvy than the general population, I’m curious if you have any thoughts on if you think someone who is less tech savvy, how they would feel about an email like this. Do you think someone who is not on our team and not in our industry will be as understanding as you are, or have different questions? Or do you think the reaction might be different?

I think some veterans have faced enough difficulty already, that they would be irritated. If you are dealing with someone who has a head injury who struggled through the application the first time, then that could be really frustrating to know they have to do it again without knowing what went wrong. You don’t know what it is that they could’ve done or didn’t do that caused the problem. Feels like being in a vacuum I think.

Q: Is there any way we could make this flow or email feel more helpful or useful to veterans whose application didn’t go through?

I think that second line, that the application didn’t go through because of something that went wrong on our [VA] end. I understand that is says on our end, but something that is a little more explicit so the veteran doesn’t feel like they are going to go in and encounter the same problem.

Q: I got it, that makes sense. That’s all the questions I have, do you have any other questions for me?

No, it looks pretty simple really.


