# Jan 26, 2024 | 1010 PACT Act TERA changes
- Attendees: Heather Justice; Boskailo, Thani; Sanchez, Rosaura (Booz Allen Hamilton); Palmer, Kevin; Lihan; Frye, Ashuntus; Angela; Matt K, Chapley; Alex; Mitch; Josh D; Edwards, Shawn; Muthupalaniappan, Meena

### Intros
- Thani (VES) 
- Kevin - PM for PACT Act and VES Sustainability
- Shawn - PM for reqs VHA enrollment team
- Ashuntus - BA for VES/PACT Act team
- Rosaura (Rosie) - Program manager 
- Meena - head of dev for VES


### Notes
- HEC notified them a few days ago on TERA changes to implement in March (were aware of additional changes coming but not sure when)
     - Originally slated for the summer
- VES team discussed with Simone today
     - Today, ES only has a Yes/No indicator for TERA
     - Need to create additional fields
     - Anything in question fields B, C or E are checked and sent to ES, system will need to create a work item instead of auto-accepting
- Imagining delivery will be scheduled to after 3/22, further discussion needed
     - More work than originally thought
- 1010 team shared preliminary designs via email to this audience for reference

- Teams will continue to sync as we learn more, and ensure we are aligned in development and delivery

## Email from Thani to their leadership team regarding delivery date (sent right after our meeting with them)
>Good Morning/Afternoon,
>
>I wanted to reach out around one of the requirements for PACT Act 103. We had a change request in our backlog to ingest the data from the updated 1010EZ/EZR forms into VES when the new forms are published (specific to TERA updates) and va.gov is updated. This requirement was prioritized for a July Release. Wednesday this week, Member Services reached out and requested that this change request be added to our March release.
>
>This morning the VES dev team met with Member Services to discuss the changes being made to the online forms to get an initial analysis of the effort. In addition, we connected with Alex and Heather from the 1010 Teams at VA.GOV to understand their progress of these changes. After both discussions this morning it is been made clear that there is some significant work for the VES dev team to do and with about a month and a half notice of the requested date, it is unlikely we can meet this timeline.
>
>The VES Dev team will be doing a more in depth analysis, however wanted to share with you all this information so that you are aware. Please let me know if you have any questions. Thank you.
>
>Thani
