## Warm-up Questions - 5 minutes

Now, I’m going to ask you to think about your very last medical appointment that you actually went to the VA facility for.
- Can you describe checking in for that medical appointment?
  - Overall, how would you describe that experience? Was it a good or bad experience? Easy or hard?
    - What did you like about it?
    - What did you not like about it?
_It was at a VA hospital and first, tog et in the front door, you have to answer COVID questions. Then they ask what time your appointment is, but it’s been that way for a year now. Then I went to a station where my appointment was supposed to be and I checked in with them by providing my last name a last 4 of my SSN. That’s normally how I check in. A year or two ago they tried to get people to use a kiosk, which they don’t use now because of COVID. Sometimes they worked, and sometimes they didn’t. There would even be a line to use the kiosk sometimes. I’ve checked in on the kiosks, I just prefer not to. They seemed to work well once you figured it out, and if the kiosk is working to begin with. To me, it is easier to do it with a person than electronically. It is simple to just talk to a staff member – I like interfacing with human beings rather than plastic things._

- You checked in via [the method they mentioned in the previous question], but is that the method that you use most often?
  - Clarify options available only if necessary. This could be using the kiosk, talking directly with VA staff, using text messaging , or how your access virtual appointments.
- Have you ever had a check-in experience go wrong at the VA?
  - If so, can you share what happened?
_Not that I remember._


## Usability - 30 minutes
Alright, I want you to pretend that you have a VA medical appointment today. You have just arrived at the location of your appointment, and you see the following sign hanging on the wall.
Screenshare poster
Poster
Can you explain to me what we're looking at here?
Well this is typical for what they want you to do today. You just scan the code and it used information from your phone, I assume, to check you in. 
What are your thoughts about what the poster is asking you to do?
I’m getting pretty used to scanning codes like this.
Is there anything missing?
I might be a little cautious the first time I use it, as with everything else, but once I get used to it I would just walk up and scan this. 
Seeing this poster, what would you do next?
Let’s see…It says it needs to update your insurance information with a staff member – that’s fine. I think it is geared to eliminate the people-to-people contact. People have to be paid and they can only do so much in a minute whereas these systems can do much more and you only have to get it set up once.
Next, I’d scan the code and I’d assume that it would tell me something or tell me what to do. 
*Successfully checked in*
Things to watch for:
Were they able to successfully complete the task?
Were there any points of confusion?
Were there any comments about jumping from a text message to a website?
Did they expect to see any additional information on their contact info/insurance, appointment, or confirmation pages?
Now, I'm going to have you go back through check-in again. This time I'll ask you some questions at each point in the process.
Text Message
Would you make any changes to this text messaging portion of check-in?
No it seems simple enough once I understood what to do.
What do you think about starting in a text message, then finishing check-in on va.gov?
Not much, it is what it is. 
Contact/insurance
Is this what you were expecting?
Yes. If something had changed then I would click yes to update my address or something. I assume something would come up for me to change what I need to. *clicked “Yes”* It says to go check in with a staff member so I would just walk away from the machine and talk to a staff member.
Can you explain to me what we're looking at?
Is there anything missing?
Your appointment
Is this what you were expecting?
Yes
Can you explain to me what we're looking at?
Is there anything missing?
It gives you the date and time of your appointment *took a moment to differentiate whether the date/time was of when they checked in or if it was for the appointment*
Confirmation page
Is this what you were expecting?
Yes, it could get a lot more sophisticated – it could tell you if they’re running behind and by how much, but it doesn’t need all of that. Sometimes you can give too much information.
Is there anything missing?

What would you do next?
I would hopefully have an available seat and I would just wait for them to call me back.

I would do this wherever I need to be for the appointment.

Post-Task Interview - 5 minutes
Now that you've seen the whole experience, what are your impressions of the experience?
It seems good. Its relatively simple, sometimes these things can get overly complicated – but this doesn’t take more than 10-year-old to figure it out.
What wording would you want the initial poster and webpages to use?
let us know you're here
check-in
something else
I don't have a preference
“Check in” is basic English and it is used almost no matter where you go, especially if it is for an appointment. I don’t know of any other word(s) I would use. 
If you could change one thing about the experience, what would it be?
I’m trying to think of something…well nowadays you almost have to assume that everyone has a smart phone. And if you have a smart phone then they know where you are anyway because it uses your location. If that’s the case then ideally you wouldn’t even have to check in because they would know when you get within a certain range of the center, and they would check you in automatically or send you a message to check in. There should be confirmation that you are checked in if you are checked in. 

Kristen: Between checking in with a staff member, the kiosk, or this way, which would you do if all three were available?
I’m a people person, I’d check in at the window.
Do you have any other thoughts on what we talked about today?
The check in process is important.
