# P10

## Warm-up Questions - 5 minutes

Now, I’m going to ask you to think about your very last medical appointment that you actually went to the VA facility for.
- Can you describe checking in for that medical appointment?
  - Overall, how would you describe that experience? Was it a good or bad experience? Easy or hard?
    - What did you like about it?
    - What did you not like about it?

_I went for X-Rays. First I had to go through security – they had a line outside and there was somebody letting people in. When I got to the right area they gave me a paper and I just had to wait until they called me back. I don’t think it differed from other check-ins, except with the extra security around COVID. I liked how easy it was to check in and I didn’t have to wait long. The only issue was with finding a kiosk because many were down at the time – I don’t usually check in with a person, I use the kiosk. I have been having some issues with my CAC card, but haven’t gotten that fixed yet. I just use my SSN instead of the card._

- You checked in via [the method they mentioned in the previous question], but is that the method that you use most often?
  - Clarify options available only if necessary. This could be using the kiosk, talking directly with VA staff, using text messaging , or how your access virtual appointments.

_*Usually uses kiosk*_

- Have you ever had a check-in experience go wrong at the VA?
  - If so, can you share what happened?

_No_

## Usability - 30 minutes

Alright, I want you to pretend that you have a VA medical appointment today. You have just arrived at the location of your appointment and you see the following sign hanging on the wall.

Screenshare poster

**Poster**
- Can you explain to me what we're looking at here?

_It is saying that you can use your phone to check in. I can either text or use the QR code to check in._

- What are your thoughts about what the poster is asking you to do?

_That it is asking me to check in._

- Is there anything missing?

_Instructions on how to scan QR code._

- Seeing this poster, what would you do next?

_I would go to the camera and use the QR code. *Successfully checked in*_

Now, I'm going to have you go back through check-in again. This time I'll ask you some questions at each point in the process.

**Text Message**
- Would you make any changes to this text messaging portion of check-in?

_No_

- What do you think about starting in a text message, then finishing check-in on va.gov?

_I was expecting it to take me to the page directly instead of doing the text. It seems simple, though._

**Contact/insurance**
- Is this what you were expecting?
- Can you explain to me what we're looking at?

_Its asking if I need to update my information. It’ll more than likely ask you to go to a staff member to update anything before moving on to the rest._

- Is there anything missing?

_No – it seems fairly straightforward._

**Your appointment**
- Is this what you were expecting?
- Can you explain to me what we're looking at?
- Is there anything missing?

_No. It is good to know where you need to go._

_I would probably do this once I get into the main lobby. If I didn’t know where to go then I would check in earlier to figure out where I need to be – it should say where I should be._

**Confirmation page**
- Is this what you were expecting?
- Is there anything missing?

_Are they going to send you a text to let you know that they are ready for you or is somebody going to come out and call your name? Restaurants that have you check in from your phone tend to text you when they’re ready for you – I would prefer it that way. What if I want to sit around the corner because of COVID? Either way, it should tell me how they’ll call for me so that I know what to do._

- What would you do next?

_I would either ask a staff member where I should wait, or I would call the number. If they are going to text me or call for me, then it should say that._

## Post-Task Interview - 5 minutes
- Now that you've seen the whole experience, what are your impressions of the experience?

_It seems pretty simple. It is easier to use my phone to check in. The only issue I could see is with reception – sometimes I don’t get signal. This would be a good way for people to check in if the Wi-Fi is working well without everyone using the same kiosks._

- What wording would you want the initial poster and webpages to use?
  - let us know you're here
  - **CHECK IN**
  - something else
  - I don't have a preference

- If you could change one thing about the experience, what would it be?

_I usually enter my mileage for reimbursement when I check in on the kiosk – I’d like to be able to do that from here, otherwise I’d still have to go to the kiosk._
