# P11

## Warm-up Questions - 5 minutes

Now, I’m going to ask you to think about your very last medical appointment that you actually went to the VA facility for.
- Can you describe checking in for that medical appointment?
  - Overall, how would you describe that experience? Was it a good or bad experience? Easy or hard?
    - What did you like about it?
    - What did you not like about it?

_The last appointment that I went for was a dental appointment which is a separate building from the main hospital. They do not let you enter until they take your temperature, and they are supposed to ask you a bunch of questions, but this time those questions were never asked. They called in and let them know that I was there and then they let me in. It was normal, I went up to the front desk and told them who I was and why I was there. I always like to check in with central, they are very good at efficient – they do everything right. They give you clear directions and they let you know if the doctor is behind._

- You checked in via [the method they mentioned in the previous question], but is that the method that you use most often?
  - Clarify options available only if necessary. This could be using the kiosk, talking directly with VA staff, using text messaging , or how your access virtual appointments.

_*Usually talks to staff member to check in* When you go to the main buildings they prefer that you use the kiosks. 85% of the time I use a kiosk it tells me to go see a staff member and then they ask me all of the same questions. Even when the kiosks are working they are not proficient._
- Have you ever had a check-in experience go wrong at the VA?
  - If so, can you share what happened?

_Only in the bigger clinics where there are a lot more people checking in. If you get there 15 minutes early then you won’t be checked in by the start time of your appointment._

## Usability - 30 minutes

Alright, I want you to pretend that you have a VA medical appointment today. You have just arrived at the location of your appointment and you see the following sign hanging on the wall.

Screenshare poster

**Poster**
- Can you explain to me what we're looking at here?
- What are your thoughts about what the poster is asking you to do?

_I hate those scanner things, but I can text check in to that phone number. It is good that there are two different options – the younger people can scan those codes._
- Is there anything missing?

_No, but you may want to make the text at the very bottom bigger – or maybe just the first line so that people know they can’t do that with their phone._

- Seeing this poster, what would you do next?

Now, I'm going to have you go back through check-in again. This time I'll ask you some questions at each point in the process.

**Text Message**
- Would you make any changes to this text messaging portion of check-in?

_I thought it was fine._

- What do you think about starting in a text message, then finishing check-in on va.gov?

_No, the only thing is that when you go from one government site to another they sometimes don’t interface well._

**Contact/insurance**
- Is this what you were expecting?

_No, I was expecting to see that the check in was complete after I sent the text message. “You are checked in”_

- Can you explain to me what we're looking at?
- Is there anything missing?

_Not really. If you click “yes”, does it break it down into the sections of information you can edit, like your address? I would expect a box with check marks that I can use to indicate what has changed and what hadn’t. That would then take me to another screen where I can edit each of the things I checked. That would keep it simple. *Clicked “Yes”* Why use this if you have to check in with a staff member?_

**Your appointment**
- Is this what you were expecting?

_Yes_

- Can you explain to me what we're looking at?
- Is there anything missing?

_The clinic name could be bigger, I missed that the first time around. It would be good if that information were repeated. If it even gave the floor number that would be great too. *Or general directions*_

**Confirmation page**
- Is this what you were expecting?

_Yes_

- Is there anything missing?

_Instead of “Not sure where to wait?” why not just tell me where I’m supposed to be/wait. Once people go through this, they will lose the page with the appointment info._

- What would you do next?

_I would wait. I would wait in the main area for a message that lets me know they are ready for me._

_I would probably send the text as I was walking in the building. Otherwise, I may miss them or send the text too early._

## Post-Task Interview - 5 minutes
- Now that you've seen the whole experience, what are your impressions of the experience?

_I like it because I don’t like standing in line. If I could streamline it then that would be good. I would use it as long as it doesn’t tell me to go talk to a staff member. If it tells me that too often then I’ll just stop using it and skip straight to the staff member._

- What wording would you want the initial poster and webpages to use?
  - let us know you're here
  - **CHECK IN**
  - something else
  - I don't have a preference

- If you could change one thing about the experience, what would it be?

_I would make the text of the location of your appointment bigger._

- Do you have any other thoughts on what we talked about today?

_No, but people will need to know that they can only check in when they are actually at the VA and not while they are on their way. You can do that for a hotel, but the VA doesn’t work that way._

- Any questions for me?

_When are you implementing it? I’m excited._
