# P12

## Warm-up Questions - 5 minutes

Now, I’m going to ask you to think about your very last medical appointment that you actually went to the VA facility for.
- Can you describe checking in for that medical appointment?
  - Overall, how would you describe that experience? Was it a good or bad experience? Easy or hard?
    - What did you like about it?
    - What did you not like about it?

_I went to get my second COVID shot. They screened us before going in, then I just checked in, waited 10 minutes, got my shot, waited 15 minutes, and then left in less than an hour. I had another appointment where I checked in and then was seen in 5 minutes. I talked to a staff member because we weren’t able to use the kiosks yet._

_They asked me what my name and last four were. After that I sat down and waited until they came out and got me. It was pretty quick. It was good experience – both appointments. They were very respectful, and they showed you were to go next the entire way._

_The only problem I have is with the travel reimbursement. Sometimes I have to fill out a paper form for travel reimbursement because they have the kiosks closed off for COVID._

- You checked in via [the method they mentioned in the previous question], but is that the method that you use most often?
  - Clarify options available only if necessary. This could be using the kiosk, talking directly with VA staff, using text messaging , or how your access virtual appointments.

_I usually use a kiosk because I can verify my appointments and because I can enter my travel there too – that’s why I use the kiosk, its easy._

- Have you ever had a check-in experience go wrong at the VA?
  - If so, can you share what happened?

_Eye appointments tend to have long waits if they get backlogged, but that has gotten better with appointment times since COVID. There was one time when the wait was so long that I had to miss/reschedule other appointments that I had that day. Now I always schedule other appointments before eye appointments._

## Usability - 30 minutes
Alright, I want you to pretend that you have a VA medical appointment today. You have just arrived at the location of your appointment and you see the following sign hanging on the wall.

Screenshare poster

**Poster**
- Can you explain to me what we're looking at here?

_You can either text to check in or you can scan that code and that’ll check you in. If I need to update my insurance information I have to go to a staff member, as usually._

- What are your thoughts about what the poster is asking you to do?

_That’s fine. I can check in on my phone – I do a lot with it, it’d be fine._

- Is there anything missing?

_Is travel reimbursement connected to this, or would I have to go somewhere else to do that?_

- Seeing this poster, what would you do next?

_*Successfully checked in*_

Now, I'm going to have you go back through check-in again. This time I'll ask you some questions at each point in the process.

**Text Message**
- Would you make any changes to this text messaging portion of check-in?

_No I don’t think so._

_What do you think about starting in a text message, then finishing check-in on va.gov?

**Contact/insurance**
- Is this what you were expecting?

_Yes_

- Can you explain to me what we're looking at?
- Is there anything missing?

_I assume that if I clicked yes to update my information that I could do it here on my phone – that would be ideal._

**Your appointment**
- Is this what you were expecting?
- Can you explain to me what we're looking at?
- Is there anything missing?

_I don’t think so._

**Confirmation page**
- Is this what you were expecting?
- Is there anything missing?

_Sometimes you have to do some labs before your appointment – it should let you know if you have any or that you should do those first._

- What would you do next?

_I would take a seat and wait. I’d check in as I get to the area I need to be._

## Post-Task Interview - 5 minutes
- Now that you've seen the whole experience, what are your impressions of the experience?

_I like it. I worry about older people who are not tech savvy. Would there still be the option for them do check in other ways?_

- What wording would you want the initial poster and webpages to use?
  - **LET US KNOW YOU'RE HERE**
  - check-in
  - something else
  - I don't have a preference

_For using your phone to check in._

- If you could change one thing about the experience, what would it be?

_I would connect travel reimbursement and labs._

- Do you have any other thoughts on what we talked about today?
_It looks really nice. Not everyone has a smartphone, though. It would be nice if they educated people on how to do things like this instead of just having it there once you show up. It could just be a 15–20-minute training. I would like it if I could scan my CAC card with this._

- Any questions for me?
