# P14

## Warm-up Questions - 5 minutes
Now, I’m going to ask you to think about your very last medical appointment that you actually went to the VA facility for.
- Can you describe checking in for that medical appointment?
  - Overall, how would you describe that experience? Was it a good or bad experience? Easy or hard?
    - What did you like about it?
    - What did you not like about it?

_From start to finish – I go in through the front gate and show my ID. Then there’s a checkpoint where they take my temperature and ask me the COVID questions. Then I park and meet another person at the front area who confirms who I am and checks me in. Then there was a receptionist at women’s health who I checked in with. They asked me if I needed to update my information or next of kin at the reception desk. So there were multiple steps, but I fully checked in at the receptionist and front area._

_Pre-COVID, this process was much quicker, but now with the two additional checkpoints it takes a little longer – nothing that discourages me though. I think I was able to get in to see the doctor much quicker, I assume because they are scheduling less appointments since COVID. I don’t have any complaints pre or post COVID – there’s nothing that I dislike about the process (other than extra steps)_

- You checked in via [the method they mentioned in the previous question], but is that the method that you use most often?
  - Clarify options available only if necessary. This could be using the kiosk, talking directly with VA staff, using text messaging , or how your access virtual appointments.

_They used to have a kiosk that you could use but they are all closed for now. I usually used the kiosk. The kiosk was a little daunting, especially if there was a long line. You also use that kiosk to enter your travel reimbursement, so it gets backed up. Sometimes the kiosks just don’t work, and you have to check in with a staff member._

- Have you ever had a check-in experience go wrong at the VA?
  - If so, can you share what happened?

_Just with the kiosks not working sometimes. There was also one time where the internet went down, and they weren’t able to use their system – but that’s just technology._

## Usability - 30 minutes

Alright, I want you to pretend that you have a VA medical appointment today. You have just arrived at the location of your appointment and you see the following sign hanging on the wall.

Screenshare poster

**Poster**
- Can you explain to me what we're looking at here?

_You would need a smartphone in order to check in. I have recently gotten into these scan codes; I think they’re really neat. It’s a fast way of finding things – so that’s probably what I would do._

- What are your thoughts about what the poster is asking you to do?

_It is making it more convenient and checking in is now in my hands rather than having to rely on a staff member of the kiosk, unless like it says I have to update insurance info._

_I think it would be cool if this were on the inside of the appointment reminder cards that you can get in the mail from the VA – as opposed to finding the poster once I walk in. I could do it as I’m walking in._

- Is there anything missing?

_Are data rates applied? I have unlimited but some people don’t so texting could charge them._

- Seeing this poster, what would you do next?

_I would pull up my camera to use the scan code. It pulls up a text that already says check in and_

Now, I'm going to have you go back through check-in again. This time I'll ask you some questions at each point in the process.

**Text Message**

- Would you make any changes to this text messaging portion of check-in?

_Maybe more of an introduction. For example, my dentist uses this method to check in and he has a greeting. All it says it VA.gov which at least lets me know that it is the VA. It could also give check in instructions such as when to check in._

- What do you think about starting in a text message, then finishing check-in on va.gov?

_As someone who works with a lot of Veterans, I know a lot of people don’t know what to do with QR codes or just aren’t good with technology. Would there still be another option for those who aren’t tech savvy. Maybe the flier could say, “use your smartphone to scan this code.”_

**Contact/insurance**
- Is this what you were expecting?

_No, I was just expecting a reply. I wasn’t even expecting a link, just a reply._

- Can you explain to me what we're looking at?
- Is there anything missing?

_I think it is good – it may be a little frustrating for the person who is trying to skip the line to update their info, but that makes sense to do not do it right here._

**Your appointment**
- Is this what you were expecting?

_This is cool, it even gives you the clinic and the phone number in case you need help._

- Can you explain to me what we're looking at?
- Is there anything missing?

_I’m curious if the phone number listed here is the main VA number or if it is a person who specifically handles checking in with this app – I’m assuming that it is the main number. I would doubt that it is the number for the clinic itself because nobody answers those phones.  I would probably prefer the main hotline number for whoever is at the front desk answering the phone._

**Confirmation page**
- Is this what you were expecting?
- Is there anything missing?

_Is there a timeframe? When should I check in? How long do I wait before I talk to somebody? Those are the kinds of questions I would have. And, how will they let me know?_

- What would you do next?

_Do I stand in the lobby, or do I go up to my doctor’s office? I would probably go up to my doctor’s office and hope that there’s a seat available int eh limited seating._

_How would they let me know that they are ready for me? I would probably want a text because it would ding on my phone. If it directed me to the waiting room then I would need a notification because it would just the on the nurse or doctor to get me. Would this also then eliminate the check in  with the receptionist when I get to the office? I would still need to give them my name, so they know who I am._

_It would be cool to be able to just check in on my phone and wait for the nurse to come get me – I would want more of an explanation for what to do. Especially for a new Vet or for someone who is going to an unfamiliar area. I don’t know how detailed it can get for each appointment for directions – floor level, directions, etc. I get that level of detail on the cards that are mailed, and I’ve never had it be incorrect before._

## Post-Task Interview - 5 minutes
- Now that you've seen the whole experience, what are your impressions of the experience?

_I think it would be great – I would like it. There have been times when I’ve had to wait to do this so this would be easier – more streamlines. It would be cool if they incorporated the travel reimbursement._

- What wording would you want the initial poster and webpages to use?
  - **LET US KNOW YOU'RE HERE**
  - check-in
  - something else
  - I don't have a preference

_It depends, if I would still need to see the receptionist then I don’t know if this would be checking in – it seems more like letting them know I’m there. Even when I use the kiosks I’d still sometimes have to see the receptionists. Verifying my arrival. Confirming I’m here. If this were a one stop shop, then I would call it check in._

- If you could change one thing about the experience, what would it be?

_To be able to do this form the parking lot so that I could do this prior to entering the building. (Receiving the poster info in the mail with an appointment reminder)_

- Do you have any other thoughts on what we talked about today?

_I know that my VA can have awful internet connection so that could be an issue._

- Any questions for me?

_Would this be for all appointments at the VA? For example, could you do it for mental health appointments?_
