# P15

## Warm-up Questions - 5 minutes
Now, I’m going to ask you to think about your very last medical appointment that you actually went to the VA facility for.
- Can you describe checking in for that medical appointment?
  - Overall, how would you describe that experience? Was it a good or bad experience? Easy or hard?
    - What did you like about it?
    - What did you not like about it?

_It was yesterday. I walked in and sat down because the kiosks are not working now, probably because of COVID. Somebody called me back for my vitals and then they had me sit back outside where I was before the rest of the appointment. When I first walked into the VA they take my ID card and messaged the clinic to let them know that I was there. It was easy, but I’ve the process can be awkward. It was a quick process overall, and less contact – but I don’t like the check in process. I don’t know if they’re messaging the clinic beforehand or not, but I wish there were a sign they had that told you to reach out to a phone number when you’re ready. There is nothing that tells you what to do – my first time going there I did not know what to do, I just sat down. Even the people who are checking you in at the door could let you know that they told the clinic you are there._

- You checked in via [the method they mentioned in the previous question], but is that the method that you use most often?
  - Clarify options available only if necessary. This could be using the kiosk, talking directly with VA staff, using text messaging , or how your access virtual appointments.

_I usually use either a kiosk or I talk to somebody at the front desk._

- Have you ever had a check-in experience go wrong at the VA?
  - If so, can you share what happened?

_No_

## Usability - 30 minutes

Alright, I want you to pretend that you have a VA medical appointment today. You have just arrived at the location of your appointment and you see the following sign hanging on the wall.

Screenshare poster

**Poster**
- Can you explain to me what we're looking at here?

_It is a sign that tells me how to check in for my appointment. It has a code that I could use to check in from my phone._

- What are your thoughts about what the poster is asking you to do?

_For me it is fine, I understand it._

- Is there anything missing?

_I would include the clinic – like the name of the specialty clinic. It does not specify which clinic or doctors this is for, and it doesn’t tell you what to do if you don’t have a phone._

- Seeing this poster, what would you do next?

_I would bring up my camera and scan the code. It composed a message to that particular number, so I would just hit send. *Successfully checked in, no issues*_

Now, I'm going to have you go back through check-in again. This time I'll ask you some questions at each point in the process.

**Text Message**
- Would you make any changes to this text messaging portion of check-in?

_It would be nice to see my name. I would be okay with checking in this way, but it would be nice to see my name on the text so that I know the check in link is for me. I can see how there’s a potential risk for something to happen – this would give me a sense of security._

- What do you think about starting in a text message, then finishing check-in on va.gov?

_Simple_

**Contact/insurance**
- Is this what you were expecting?

_I was not expecting this. I was expecting to do straight to checking in for my appointment, not to update my insurance info. I could see how the VA may want to ask that, but updating “other information” doesn’t make sense to me. I don’t know what “other information” would be – I can’t think of anything off the top of my head. *Kristen: next of kin?* I could see next of kin. I assume that if I clicked yes it would take me to the page where I could edit this information directly. *Clicked yes, laughed* I would want to do this on my own if I clicked yes._

- Can you explain to me what we're looking at?
- Is there anything missing?

**Your appointment**
- Is this what you were expecting?

_Yes_

- Can you explain to me what we're looking at?
- Is there anything missing?

_No, I think this is good. It would be nice to see the name fo the clinic rather than green team or red team._

**Confirmation page**
- Is this what you were expecting?
_ Is there anything missing?

_No, I think it is self-explanatory._

- What would you do next?

_I would just wait. I assume that by this time I am seated so I would just wait to be called by a nurse. I would start this process at the actual clinic itself._

## Post-Task Interview - 5 minutes
- Now that you've seen the whole experience, what are your impressions of the experience?

_I actually like it. It would have been nice for my appointment yesterday instead of walking up to the clinic and just waiting. This process is simplified, and I really like it._

- What wording would you want the initial poster and webpages to use?
  - let us know you're here
  - check-in
  - something else
  - I don't have a preference

_Maybe, “thank you for confirming your appointment.” I’ve just heard “check in” for my appointment._

- If you could change one thing about the experience, what would it be?

_I would add the name of the clinic._

- Do you have any other thoughts on what we talked about today?

_I would want to know what to do if I don’t have my phone – there should be multiple options available._

- Any questions for me?

_I do not, I really like this process._
