# P2

## Warm-up Questions - 5 minutes
Now, I’m going to ask you to think about your very last medical appointment that you actually went to the VA facility for.
- Can you describe checking in for that medical appointment?
  - Overall, how would you describe that experience? Was it a good or bad experience? Easy or hard?
    - What did you like about it?
    - What did you not like about it?

_At the facility, since COVID, I just had to go up to the counter and show them my ID. I also had to get my temperature checked when I first go there and they confirmed the appointment that I was there for._

_It was pretty standard, normal, and easy. The only thing that would’ve made it annoying is if there were a lot for people in line that you had to wait for._

_They also had a kiosk that you can use, but they’ve had that closed since COVID. I would normally use the kiosk and just enter my CAC card. Its easy for me, but I can definitely see older Vets struggling to use it – I’ve even had to help a few._

- You checked in via [the method they mentioned in the previous question], but is that the method that you use most often?
  - Clarify options available only if necessary. This could be using the kiosk, talking directly with VA staff, using text messaging , or how your access virtual appointments.
- Have you ever had a check-in experience go wrong at the VA?
  - If so, can you share what happened?

_Yes, definitely, there have been times when I scheduled an appointment but when I got there, there was nothing on the books. One time they were able to squeeze us in, but another time they just sent me home and had me schedule another appointment._

## Usability - 30 minutes

Alright, I want you to pretend that you have a VA medical appointment today. You have just arrived at the location of your appointment and you see the following sign hanging on the wall.

Screenshare poster

**Poster**
- Can you explain to me what we're looking at here?

_It is telling you to use your phone to check in for the appointment. You can use the QR code, or you can text the phone number. It looks like it wants us to check-in virtually._

- What are your thoughts about what the poster is asking you to do?

_For me personally, that would be fine – I don’t care how I check-in as long as I am and I know that I am. QR codes are still a little weird to some people, but I would use it._

- Is there anything missing?

_No, as simple as possible is the way it should be – I think it is good._

- Seeing this poster, what would you do next?

_I would use my phone to scan the QR code, but I can’t do that now, so I’ll text the number. *started screensharing and sent text* Now it is sending me somewhere else, that’s annoying. *successful check-in*_

Now, I'm going to have you go back through check-in again. This time I'll ask you some questions at each point in the process.

**Text Message**
- Would you make any changes to this text messaging portion of check-in?

_I guess not, it is straight forward enough. The text should just check me in – it ended up being fine that it redirected me because it was just the one question, I thought it was going to be a whole form to fill out._

_It may be good to also provide the provider, date/time, and location of the appointment._

_The question asking if we’d like to update our information is normal, we get asked that every time we go to the VA._

_It would be nice if it could tell us what the wait time would be, but that would be above and beyond and isn’t necessary._

_I assume I would do this at the main lobby._

_I don’t know how you would confirm that the person signing in is actually the person for the appointment without having them sign-in to VA.gov – that’s a whole other thing to get done. Ideally, you could just scan your CAC card. You could do it by their phone number, but some issues could come up from that with changing numbers or for when people don’t have their phone on them._ 

- What do you think about starting in a text message, then finishing check-in on va.gov?

_”annoying” , but also see just above*_

**Contact/insurance**
- Is this what you were expecting?

_I would just go check in with a staff member. It is a little annoying that it tells me to go somewhere else – it should just say upfront that I’ll have to talk to a staff member to update my info. It should be highlighted (maybe on the poster) upfront._

- Can you explain to me what we're looking at?
- Is there anything missing?

**Your appointment**
- Is this what you were expecting?
- Can you explain to me what we're looking at?
- Is there anything missing?

**Confirmation page**
- Is this what you were expecting?
- Is there anything missing?
- What would you do next?

## Post-Task Interview - 5 minutes
- Now that you've seen the whole experience, what are your impressions of the experience?

_My concern would be for the Vets who are not technology friendly. Obviously, that is becoming less common, but it is still common now._

_I would probably still use the kiosk over this system. Checking-in on your phone predicates that you need internet connection and some doctors’ offices don’t have any signal at all, so you’ll just sit there and get annoyed. The kiosk also asks about travel reimbursement so I could just do that all-in-one spot rather than two._
