# P3

## Warm-up Questions - 5 minutes

Now, I’m going to ask you to think about your very last medical appointment that you actually went to the VA facility for.
- Can you describe checking in for that medical appointment?
  - Overall, how would you describe that experience? Was it a good or bad experience? Easy or hard?
    - What did you like about it?
    - What did you not like about it?

_It was very efficient. I checked in and notified my doctor that I was there and they came out to meet me promptly. I talked with somebody at the front desk to check-in – that’s usually how I check-in. Some places are more efficient than others when it comes to service. If the staff members are present and prompt then I like to check in that way for the personal touch. I have used a kiosk to check-in, but not text messaging – they disabled the kiosk since COVID. Sometimes I prefer the kiosk because it can be quicker. Though, sometimes the keypad can be hard to use._

- You checked in via [the method they mentioned in the previous question], but is that the method that you use most often?
  - Clarify options available only if necessary. This could be using the kiosk, talking directly with VA staff, using text messaging , or how your access virtual appointments.

_*Checking in with staff members at front desk*_

- Have you ever had a check-in experience go wrong at the VA?
  - If so, can you share what happened?

_No_

## Usability - 30 minutes
Alright, I want you to pretend that you have a VA medical appointment today. You have just arrived at the location of your appointment and you see the following sign hanging on the wall.

Screenshare poster

**Poster**
- Can you explain to me what we're looking at here?

_It has a bar code, and I guess I’d just use my phone to scan that and check-in._

- What are your thoughts about what the poster is asking you to do?

_It is asking me to use my phone to check-in. I would like to be able to do it that way._
- Is there anything missing?

_No, I think it is satisfactory. It is similar to the kiosk._

- Seeing this poster, what would you do next?

_I would scan the code and follow the directions._

_There is also a phone number you can call to check in. *tried calling instead of texting, then texted the number successfully*_

_Next, I would click the link that they just sent me *successfully checked in*_

Now, I'm going to have you go back through check-in again. This time I'll ask you some questions at each point in the process.

**Text Message**
- Would you make any changes to this text messaging portion of check-in?

_No, it was easy to follow._

- What do you think about starting in a text message, then finishing check-in on va.gov?

_I like the text option. It is the most efficient way to check in that I’ve seen so far. The only problem is going to be with reception or Wi-Fi connection inside the VA._

**Contact/insurance**
- Is this what you were expecting?

_In a way, because the poster mentioned updating your information – and it is similar to the kiosk._

- Can you explain to me what we're looking at?
- Is there anything missing?

_No, it is an easy page to follow._

**Your appointment**
- Is this what you were expecting?

_Yes, I expected this._

- Can you explain to me what we're looking at?
- Is there anything missing?

_Maybe it should say what type of appointment this is for. Once in a while my mind will go blank and I’ll forget what the appointment was for._

**Confirmation page**
- Is this what you were expecting?

_Yes_

- Is there anything missing?

_No, now its just best to wait until they call for me._
- What would you do next?

_Find a seat and wait for them to call for me._ 

_I would submit this in the lobby while I wait._

_I would not go talk to a staff member to update my information – it would be more efficient to do that online._

## Post-Task Interview - 5 minutes
- Now that you've seen the whole experience, what are your impressions of the experience?

_It is efficient. I like it a lot – better than checking in with the kiosk. The kiosk can be hard to use (the keys) and frustrating, the phone is much quicker/easier._
- What wording would you want the initial poster and webpages to use?
  - let us know you're here
  - check-in
  - something else
  - I don't have a preference

- If you could change one thing about the experience, what would it be?

_I would want to make this happen/take effect. (Being able to check in by phone)_

- Do you have any other thoughts on what we talked about today?

_Between the three options, I would still choose to check-in with a staff member for the human touch._

- Any questions for me?
