# P4

## Warm-up Questions - 5 minutes
Now, I’m going to ask you to think about your very last medical appointment that you actually went to the VA facility for.
- Can you describe checking in for that medical appointment?
  - Overall, how would you describe that experience? Was it a good or bad experience? Easy or hard?
    - What did you like about it?
    - What did you not like about it?

_We went up to the window and checked-in with a person at the front desk. Its an okay method, as long as the line isn’t long - we go to a smaller clinic so there’s not many people / long lines. There could be a line at the computer to check-in as well, I haven’t used it before,  but I’ve seen others – I always talk to a staff member._

- You checked in via [the method they mentioned in the previous question], but is that the method that you use most often?
  - Clarify options available only if necessary. This could be using the kiosk, talking directly with VA staff, using text messaging , or how your access virtual appointments.

_*Yes*_

- Have you ever had a check-in experience go wrong at the VA?
  - If so, can you share what happened?

_No_

## Usability - 30 minutes
Alright, I want you to pretend that you have a VA medical appointment today. You have just arrived at the location of your appointment and you see the following sign hanging on the wall.

Screenshare poster

**Poster**
- Can you explain to me what we're looking at here?

_We are looking at a code that you can scan with you phone which will ask you questions to verify that it is you checking in, then it’d check you in._

- What are your thoughts about what the poster is asking you to do?

_I don’t have any thoughts about it. It is simple, just check in for your appointment._

- Is there anything missing?

_It could get too busy to read and too much to take in if you add more._

- Seeing this poster, what would you do next?

_*texted “check in” to the phone number and checked-in successfully*_

Now, I'm going to have you go back through check-in again. This time I'll ask you some questions at each point in the process.

**Text Message**
- Would you make any changes to this text messaging portion of check-in?

_It is telling you what to do next the entire way - you should know what to do because it tells you. I don’t know how familiar other people are with links, though. Maybe the message should say to click the link._

- What do you think about starting in a text message, then finishing check-in on va.gov?

**Contact/insurance**
- Is this what you were expecting?

_I don’t know what I was expecting._

- Can you explain to me what we're looking at?

_To update information if you need to._

- Is there anything missing?

_It did not verify me any way. How do they know who I am? I don’t know the ideal way to verify – the person at the window usually asks for the last 4 of your social or for your ID._

_*Kristen: “We do it by phone number, what do you think about that?”* They don’t have my phone number._

**Your appointment**
- Is this what you were expecting?

_I didn’t have any expectations. It looks okay to me._

- Can you explain to me what we're looking at?
- Is there anything missing?

_Maybe you could include the name of the person you are scheduled with._

**Confirmation page**
- Is this what you were expecting?

_Yes, if it went through then you should get something that tells you you’re done._

- Is there anything missing?

_No, I think it is good enough._

- What would you do next?

_Sit down and wait. I guess I would do this wherever I could scan the code. I guess you could do it at home, how would they know where you are? It would be good if you’re running late to be able to check in before you get there so that you can keep your spot if you’re running behind._

## Post-Task Interview - 5 minutes
- Now that you've seen the whole experience, what are your impressions of the experience?

_There’s some convenience to it – you may not have to wait long if multiple posters are available._

- What wording would you want the initial poster and webpages to use?
  - let us know you're here
  - **CHECK IN**
  - something else
  - I don't have a preference

_Most people are accustomed to “check in” – it should be fine._

- If you could change one thing about the experience, what would it be?

_I would want to have some of the posters near the directories._

- Do you have any other thoughts on what we talked about today?

- *Kristen: If you had this option, would you use it or would you talk to a staff member?* I would still talk to the staff member.

_If I had an information sheet for how to get that number set up in my phone then I would use it._

- Any questions for me?
