# P6

## Warm-up Questions - 5 minutes
Now, I’m going to ask you to think about your very last medical appointment that you actually went to the VA facility for.
- Can you describe checking in for that medical appointment?
  - Overall, how would you describe that experience? Was it a good or bad experience? Easy or hard?
    - What did you like about it?
    - What did you not like about it?

_I went into the clinic in Stockbridge. They stopped me at the door and took my temperature and gave me a sheet of paper. They sent me back to my car and then called me when they were ready for me._

_I felt comfortable with it, because of what’s going on with COVID. I’d actually prefer doing it that way so that there aren’t a lot of people crammed in there. I could sit in my car and be relaxed while listening to my music._

_It was a bit surprising because it was as if they had armed guards to stop you from going in at the front door. There were three people you had to talk to before being checked in._

_Before COVID, you could use the kiosk and sit there until they call you back. I like the idea of checking myself in, but what I don’t like is that sometimes you can sit there for a while wasting time because it doesn’t always work – by the time you realize you’ve already wasted 20-30 minutes. When that happened, I did not go back to the kiosk – I checked in with the front desk. It was still okay because they were an hour behind, but if you’re late checking in then sometimes they do have to reschedule._

- You checked in via [the method they mentioned in the previous question], but is that the method that you use most often?
  - Clarify options available only if necessary. This could be using the kiosk, talking directly with VA staff, using text messaging , or how your access virtual appointments.
- Have you ever had a check-in experience go wrong at the VA?
  - If so, can you share what happened?

_I like the idea of checking myself in, but what I don’t like is that sometimes you can sit there for a while because it doesn’t always work – by the time you realize you’ve already wasted 20-30 minutes. When that happened, I did not go back to the kiosk – I checked in with the front desk._

## Usability - 30 minutes
Alright, I want you to pretend that you have a VA medical appointment today. You have just arrived at the location of your appointment and you see the following sign hanging on the wall.

Screenshare poster

**Poster**
- Can you explain to me what we're looking at here?

_You’re able to check in using the bar code. I like that – they’re starting to use that everywhere; I really like this. I would just scan it and keep it moving._
- What are your thoughts about what the poster is asking you to do?
- Is there anything missing?

_No, I guess it would depend on where this code/text takes me._

- Seeing this poster, what would you do next?

_I would just scan it and keep it moving. The only question I have at this point is how would they know who I am if they do not have my number in the system? It would just be sitting there because they wouldn’t know who to attribute it to – and it’s probably automated so there’s probably not somebody on the other end to reply and ask who you are._

_*Checked in successfully* It didn’t show my name anywhere, so I’d assume they have my phone number on file. I like that it uses the phone number to identify you, you use your phone number for everything anyway._

Now, I'm going to have you go back through check-in again. This time I'll ask you some questions at each point in the process.

**Text Message**

- Would you make any changes to this text messaging portion of check-in?

_Why would the link say, “go.usa.gov” instead of VA.gov. That throws me off because that’s what I’m expecting and USA.gov could be anything._

- What do you think about starting in a text message, then finishing check-in on va.gov?

_Its really not a lot of steps. Once you click the link it asks if you want to update your information. I guess if you say yes it takes you to a different page and if you say no then you’re done. It’s a few different pages but it is all part of one process._

**Contact/insurance**
- Is this what you were expecting?

_This would be the logical step – it would make more sense to change your info before you check in._
- Can you explain to me what we're looking at?
- Is there anything missing?

_No, not really._

**Your appointment**
- Is this what you were expecting?

_Yes, because it should show the appointment that I’m there for – which would be the next one of all possible appointments._

- Can you explain to me what we're looking at?
- Is there anything missing?

_I would prefer to see the doctor’s name. Especially in case it is with somebody who I don’t want._

**Confirmation page**
- Is this what you were expecting?

_Yes_

- Is there anything missing?

_It has everything that I would ask. I like that it has the “not sure where to wait?” section. I would expect to be doing this in the lobby unless they send me a text beforehand._

- What would you do next?

_I would click on, “Not sure where to wait?” It doesn’t do anything? Oh, it says I should call. So if I don’t know where to wait, I have to call a staff member. It just said the name of the clinic, so I should be able to click something that tells me the floor number and general directions._

_*clicked “yes” to update info* So you still have to talk to somebody? I would rather do it online – the question is asked in a way that makes me think I can do it on my own. It would be great to be able to do it online._

## Post-Task Interview - 5 minutes
- Now that you've seen the whole experience, what are your impressions of the experience?

_It is really good; I like the premise. Some of the questions are misleading, though – the updating info question and the where to go question. I would like to be able to do/have that online._

- Kristen: What do you think about having to log in to VA.gov to check in?

_I think that option should be available either way. It is more secure, because phone numbers can change._

- What wording would you want the initial poster and webpages to use?
  - **LET US KNOW YOU'RE HERE**
  - check-in
  - something else
  - I don't have a preference

_My next question would be, once I do the check in, what’s the next step? Do I go straight to my appointment or are there more questions from the VA. So “let us know you’re here” gives off the impression that it is just to let them know you are there, and not necessarily that you are ready for the appointment – because the VA usually has another step in between._

- If you could change one thing about the experience, what would it be?

_The only thing I would change is to add another level of security. I like checking in this way, but I’d like it to ask for the last 4 of a SSN or something. The way it is set up is good, just another verifier._

- Do you have any other thoughts on what we talked about today?

_I think this will be much smoother. I like it a lot. I like it better than the kiosk because that has issues sometimes – doing it this way would also eliminate the line. I like this because I can just do it and then I’m done._

- Kristen: What’s your preference?

_I would check in this way. I try to cut out as much interaction with people at the VA as much as possible. It always seems that the person I’m talking to doesn’t have the answers I need or that they aren’t the nicest people. It’s great for the millennials and myself, but some of the older Vets may have a harder time._
