# 686 Usability Research: P2 (Roger O)

### Warm up

- *Tell me a little about yourself*
  - 61, live in CT
  - Served in the Navy initially as a corpsman, became a flight nurse in the AF reserve at ~26-27 years of service
  - Started having issues years ago, went to Vet Center and been going there for 3+ years now
  - They got me hooked up into the VA system and I've started getting some disability, started at 30%, went to 50% for a while, recently got moved up to 90%
  - Took a lot of courses as a nurse in the reserve, combat nursing, burn course in San Antonio, TX
  - Been plugging along, I do these things from time to time if it'll help out other Vets
  - I didn't know a lot myself over the years, only through the VSOs and signing up for a lot of different things for the VA that I learned about different programs
  - There's a lot of Vets out there that don't know what's available to them
  - I'm 61, I've kinda had to learn about the web and computer. My girls were far more well-versed than I was when I went to nursing school
  - A lot of older Vets are usually not that savvy when it comes to computers and accessing things. A lot of them still have flip phones. Anything to make it easier for them to learn and understand and access benefits is a good thing.
- *Do you use online services now to access benefits?*
  - I have MHV premium, a Vets.gov sign in, and eBenefits sign in
  - Just got those within the last year
  - I had the healthy benefits for a long time, never really accessed it that much for anything. They have improved that site, you don't have to click to another place for messaging anymore. It seems more user-friendly, user-accessible since they're working on that
  - You can access any or all of the sites kinda right now is my understanding
  - I still have my access stuff for healthy benefits, Vets.gov, and ebenefits. I have all 3
- *Have your daughters or any other dependents ever used benefits through your VA record?*
  - Not my daughters per se, a lot of this stuff has just started in the last year and a half to two years
  - It was through the urging of my counselor at the Vet Center to apply for benefits
  - I was struggling, out of work a couple of times and lived at my house here for 26 years, almost lost that
  - Still walking a tight rope with that
  - I'm married, previously divorced
  - I have PTSD issues, that doesn't make life all that easy for others around me
- *What information do you currently have about any benefits that your dependents could use through your VA record?*
  - I have some books, haven't really looked at it
  - I'm taking things one day at a time
  - I'm in a couple groups, chaplains group, mens group
  - Heard the other guys talk, heard more about benefits once you hit that 100% threshold. You get insurance for the wife if you're married, different things. I've heard more about that, not much about those of us under that 100% threshold
  - I do get extra in my disability payment because I am married, that's about the only thing right there

### Intro page

- *What you should see now is a page on Vets.gov. Take a moment to look around this page and tell me what the purpose is*
  - It says add dependent to your VA benefits, I guess it's to establish benefits should you have any dependents
- *How would you go about finding out if you're eligible?*
  - I'd go through this stuff, I know there's some stuff with kids age 18-23, but my daughters are older and not eligible for that kinda stuff
  - When I first got my disability payments, all I did was call in to the 800 line and they helped me and my wife ove the phone, I didn't do it online
- *What was your experience with that?* 
  - It seemed pretty easy in that regard, they said I could do it online but they took care of it over the phone. Sometimes adding documentation online can be a little difficult because 
  - I'm not all that familiar with the who what where why's. I'd call my daughter to help me sometimes but she's off in her own place and married now so I don't have my in-house tutor, so to speak
- *How did you find the 800 number when you were ready to add your wife to your benefits?*
  - For some reason I can't remember, but I just seemed to remember the number for some reason and I just called it
- *Let's say you were going to add your wife to your VA benefits through the website. Taking a look through this page, do you feel like you have an understanding of what info you would need in order to do that?*
  - It says "prepare" here - your SSN, that I know. When I joined up that was the main number. Current and previous marriage details, you'd have to get all that prior marriage information
  - Details about Vet's unmarried children, name, SSN, DOB. Then there's at school between 18-23, you gotta get approval of school attendance
  - Apparently you can download that form, but that'd be an issue for me because I don't have a printer
  - Sometimes filling stuff out online and trying to hook it up with whatever you're doing, there seems to be a disconnect with that
- *If there were an alternate to download that form, how would you expect to fill it out?*
  - As part of the application process, just have the form attached right to it and fill it out and do the electronic signature that everyone seems to do right now and make it part of the whole application process
  - Don't make it separate, you'd have to fill it out, print it out, attach it. You'd probably lose some people with that
- *Has that happened before with you?*
  - Trying to get things attached yeah, not specifically with VA but with other things
- *Let's go ahead and start the process of filling out the application*
  - (Scrolling up and down, looking for where to start)
  - I guess I should hit this button here. When it always says "respondent burden 15 minutes", I usually add an hour to those things because things don't always work out so well for me
- *You mentioned you'd need to fill out some documents like previous marriage info, would you consider that part of that time you'd add?*
  - No, just usually for me you can count on doubling or tripling it. Sometimes I just don't understand things. Respondent burden if you're computer-savvy, yes, but if you're not then sometimes it can be a little bit more
  - I have an iphone, and I'd always had a flip phone. I like the iphone because it's on the KISS principle. For me that's good. I've seen the Android phones and they're not all that simple. The iphone does keep it very simple. If you don't know what's going on you can still use the phone and access things. The easier the better. 
  - Kids these days are so computer technical savvy, but I grew up in a time period where there were no computers
- *Let's go ahead and start the application*
  - Ok so I click that button I guess
  - Having worked in the ER for almost 20 years, when we go to discharge people we'd have to keep discharge instructions down to a 3rd grade reading level. If they can't read or understand their discharge instructions, you're not gonna get compliance. The simpler it is, you have people all over the place on the spectrum of things. I knew that from working as a nurse in the ER.

### Chapter 1

- *Before you fill out info, whose information is the form asking for?*
  - That'd be me - "your first name"
- *For the question "Relationship to the Veteran", why do you think someone would select other?*
  - Someone helping them fill it out? I don't know. A Vet rep or VSO, something like that. The other one is a spouse or surviving spouse if they're looking to get benefits under the Veteran, then the unmarried adult child

### Chapter 2

- *Whose information is it asking for?*
  - Veteran info, you'd put in your SSN
- *You mentioned you'd memorized your SSN?*
  - In the 70s your SSN was on everything, plastered all over creation so people figured out they could steal your identity
  - (SSN error) dashes allowed, oh it's telling me I didn't put dashes. Well hopefully that'll be ok now
- *What do you think went wrong since adding dashes didn't correct the error?*
  - It must be sensing in the system that that isn't a valid social security number

### Chapter 3

- *On this page, why do you think you're being asked this question?*
  - If you're adding dependents, what's your status, you know
- *What other information do you expect you'll be asked based on this?*
  - I guess you start adding them if you click "Married"
  - Ok so it's asking me my current marriage
- *If you were filling out this form with the intention to add your spouse to your benefits, how would you go about recalling date of marriage and city where you got married?*
  - I would say most guys should know that. Unless you're Raymond Barone. That's something you should know but if not you'll have to dig out your marriage certificate. But if not you'd go to the town hall or city hall where you got married?
- *What would you do about this form if you realized you needed to go gather info you didn't have on hand?*
  - It says at the bottom save and finish this application later
- *Is that something you'd try?*
  - Usually when I try to save something I can't find it later, that hasn't happened to me with the VA but in other areas.
  - It's kinda small down there number 1, number 2 if you've had prior bad experiences people may say hell with it, and just close it out
- *And then restart when they have the info?*
  - Or just forget about it.
  - I know it says at the beginning what you need, but talking to other Vets when they have to start providing more information than they thought they'll get frustrated and sometimes walk away
  - If it's not something that's gonna be easy and they can remember, they'll give up on it
  - Take the person with more than one marriage, ok? You may not remember your second, third, fourth, or fifth marriage information, so you'd have to get it
  - Why are they requesting all this prior marriage info?
  - I guess if there's kids and there's child support or alimony, that's the only thing I can think of
  - Disability payments aren't something that can be attached or acquired by other people or entities because it's a disability payment, so I don't know

### Chapter 4

- *Whose information is this page asking about?*
  - Current spouse
- *Do you have your current spouse's SSN memorized as well?*
  - No I have it written down in my wallet
  - What happens if she doesn't have a VA file number?
- *Do you think it's something you'd have to put here?*
  - We'll find out when I hit continue, won't we?
- *If you entered her SSN do you think that would be sufficient?*
  - Possibly. From years ago they used SSN, now they're changing things

### Chapter 5

- *Why are you being asked about unmarried children if you're only trying to add your spouse?*
  - They might be eligible for some benefits I guess based on their age and school status
  - I guess if you've got more than one child you hit that "add another child" and keep going until you've completed your scenario
- *Whose information are they asking about here?*
  - You see the child's name that was inputted above
- *For that "status of this child" question, do the categories make sense?*
  - Yes
  - Then you'd have to go to that form they talked about in the beginning and fill that out
  - "You can send this form later"
- *Would you go back to that form and send it later?*
  - I'd prefer not to, I'd prefer to get it out of the way right now. But you'd have to give it to the school don't you?
- *If there was a portion for the school to fill out, how do you imagine that'd work?*
  - You need a copy -- that's the problem, if you don't have a printer you're kind a out of luck
  - Maybe put something there "if you're unable to print, please check this box and we'll mail you a form"
  - Again a lot of older vets may not be computer savvy, have printers, what have you
  - Just have something on the side that says "click this button if you're unable to print, be advised we'll mail you a copy of the form that you can take to the school and complete it"
  - When I see things like this, for me it's kinda a bump in the road or somewhat of a road block
  - Granted I'm 61, I know Vets younger and older than myself, things like that they'd say "heck with it", close it and not come back

### Chapter 6 (Review)

- *Before submitting, what do you imagine you can do on this page?*
  - Now I know you can click on the little thing there (accordion) to edit and change things. You can review the information you put in there. That kinda helps you right there
  - Ok, let's go down and review it
  - Then there's a box about you go to jail and stuff like that, privacy policy that everybody has and I guess you have to check that box and then submit the application
- *Go ahead and submit*
  - (Error: some info is missing or not valid)
  - I guess I missed something
- *What do you imagine that you missed?*
  - I guess it was the form for school? No?
- *What would you do if you saw this? How would you verify that's the form that was missing?*
  - It doesn't say here, there's nothing to click on here that tells me what it is
  - I'd feel a little ticked off that I went through all this stuff and it's telling me I didn't do something 
  - It should say if it relates to the school form, the school form is missing. Please check this box to fill it out and return it
  - It should say what the issue is, otherwise I have no idea
  - It says save and finish later, but I don't know what to finish. It's frustrating
  - Maybe you know, but you're not telling me. This probably would be an application process killer right here, seeing this and saying heck with it and leaving
  - What is the reason then, was it the school form?
- *That was not the reason, it must have a been a field that you missed. How would you want to know which field you missed?*
  - It seems like I've answered all the questions in this quick review thing. Oh it didn't ask about the previous spouse. 
  - It asked how many times I'd been married before and I said 1. Is that what it's looking for, the previous marriage?
- *If that were the case, would you go back and try to add the information at this point?*
  - I'd probably walk away from it, because there were no questions anywhere asking about the first wife. It asked about the current wife, but didn't ask about the previous wife
  - There were no questions, every time I clicked continue it sent me through
  - If I hadn't filled it out, it would have kicked me out like with the SSN thing
  - The simpler it is, the better the response you're gonna get to it, espeically for people in their 40s and beyond
  -  I was in a clinic one day and this guy brought a neighbor in, telling me about his dad who's 96 and lives alone in FL and talking about all the issues he had. I asked if he'd apply for disability and he said no, he said he's just squeaking by on his own because he has limited financial resources. I said he should talk to a VSO and he could get money that's tax-free to help him live and survive. At 96 he wants to maintain his independence
  - I was telling him about the different things, he was appreciative of it. Go to one of them, VFW, American Legion, DAV. Have them talk to your dad and start filling out things. Because he didn't know, the family didn't know. There's a guy who definitely should be getting everything he's entitled to, he fought in WWII.
  - When I did the first one (session) we talked for an hour and a half because I brought up all kinds of different issues. If you focus on the KISS principle for everybody out there and keep it on a level. Like I said, all the ERs everything had to be on a third grade level. Sometimes younger people, sometimes older, sometimes parents who spoke another language. 
  - Anything and everything to help out there. I'm appreciative of what I've gotten. Is VA perfect? No. For a lot of things it's very good. For issues like PTSD, hearing. Men and women coming back with TBIs, multiple system injuries. The VA is very important for that.
  - I found something on the web last night, there's a group of over 400 plastic surgeons in the US who will help Veterans with plastic surgery to repair the injuries and scars they have for free. I saved that so when I come across somebody.
  - In my mens group a lot of guys don't know things, and I bring up things. Since I was a paramedic and nurse I have a lot more insights than most patients in the VA. I have knowledge and experience they don't have in terms of dealing with the system. I know of different avenues to do things.
  - I went out on Choice [program], had Choice appts last Aug and Sep. They finally paid my doctor. Some doctors have been going after the Vets. Even if you go out on Choice, VA couldn't get me an appt so sent me to an outside doc, it still took 60 days. It's tough. Those are kinks and bureaucracy that they need to deal with.

### Closing

- *Recruiting*
  - Guys in my mens groups, some are younger, some are older
  - Even though they're getting care from the VA, they're very leery of things like this
  - I've done some research things with the VA too to help out with trying to improve things for Vets
  - In the research studies they came into one of my groups and none of the guys are interested
