# Rules of Engagement (ROE) - P3 Notes

*UX Designer, VFS - Authenticated Experience*

Tuesday, Oct 29, 2019 at 1:00pm ET


## Intro - 

**Moderator:** Thanks for joining us today! My name is Naomi and I also have some colleagues on the line observing and taking notes. Today we're going to talk about the experience of the VFS team working with the VSP team and how we’re sharing knowledge there. 

Before we start, a few things I want to mention:

This entire session should take about 15 minutes. I want to be sure not to keep you much longer, so I may occasionally prompt you with the next question or topic.

In this session, we want to hear your honest opinions. We are not testing your ability. We just want to improve the process so we can all better meet Veteran's needs. I will not be offended by any opinions you express, and I welcome your feedback.

**VFS team member:** Great, okay. 

**Moderator:** If for any reason and at any time you want to stop the session, please let me know.

Are you comfortable if I record my screen and audio as we talk today?

 **VFS team member:**  No, please feel free to. Once I start recording, I am going to confirm that you are ok with me recording this session once more.

*Start recording.*

**Moderator:**  I have started recording. I'd like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record my screen the audio as we talk today?

 **VFS team member:** Absolutely

## Interview questions for VFS team members

**Moderator:** Today we’re going to talk about Rules of Engagement documents, specifically the usability and findability of documentation. How long have you worked on veteran-facing tools?

 **VFS team member:** Since August, early august. First or second week of august is when I started

**Moderator:** What is your practice area?

 **VFS team member:** I’m with the authenticated experience team, also personalization team, formerly known as the dragon. A user signs in what’s different than what they see. What’s different for a signed in user versus not logged in. Title is senior visual designer and researcher. I’m able to finagle some UI/UX work as well

**Moderator:** Have you heard of the term Rules of Engagement? What does it mean to you?

 **VFS team member:** Yes, I have heard it when it's applied to combat. So my dad is veteran and my brother, in that regard I’ve heard it. If you’re speaking of anywhere on these platforms, I haven't yet.

**Moderator:**  Have you heard of a document called Rules of Engagement? 

 **VFS team member:** Early on orientation was fast and furious. We were ramped on very quickly. I remember a lot of documentation i had to take care of. When I started orienting on design, I feel bad to say this, I don’t remember that was one of them. If there was…

**Moderator:** What would you expect from this type of document?

 **VFS team member:** It sounds sort of a process document or how the process might be, what you might have to consider the process on how to engage with a design project or other designers. Maybe the rules to set expectations in regard of what you might expect or what others expect from you. Probably one of those areas.

**Moderator:** Where did you go to find something like that?

 **VFS team member:** The only place is the design system or design library, or staging. Maybe somewhere on va.gov. Resources. I might just type in Rules of Engagement in the search. Maybe somewhere in those areas, I’d track it down.

**Moderator:** Have you used any sort of document on design? What are you working on now?

 **VFS team member:** Something just popped in my head about the last question. For this particular piece in the team, I’d probably scour github or our board zenhub. Jira like project, that’s how I’ve tracked design documentation like conversation guides or something like that. 

What I’ve been working on now, it’s been design research, setting up usability testing, along with creating design wireframes and layouts. I have an actual va.gov pattern library in my sketch file. I search for templates on github and or guides that I'll use as a resource to set up my own documents. It’s actually been pretty good. There’s a lot of good documentation and templates for any documents you want to create for yourself for your project.

**Moderator:** So when you went to github, how did you find guides and templates?

 **VFS team member:** I was pointed to them by the design team. I think on slack, my design lead Shawna is a very good resource. I think I might have had a quick chat with her, we do 1 on 1s to discuss design things. I have Samara who provided me nice hints, this, that, or the other. Did not derive it from documentation just living, breathing design team on slack. 

**Moderator:** So do you have those template guides you’ve been looking at

 **VFS team member:** They’re in github, I can download them at any point and access them easily

**Moderator:** If you had to go back to that, how would you find that again?

 **VFS team member:** For our team it’s a specific branch, drill down on vets.gov, drill down to our team folder, in that folder there’s all these activities for the team. We’ll find activities like usability testing and research and you’ll find documents associated with those processes

**Moderator:** In the authenticated teams folder? If you don’t mind after the call to send me a link to that folder. When you got those documents, talking to Shawna or Samara, when you got them was there anything kinda missing? Anything you wish was included?

 **VFS team member:** Nothing off the top of my head. I think you know creating a conversation guide, creating my first research documents, all I was focusing on was making sure I created mine like they had theirs, because I’m sure they created theirs for a specific reason. If there’s anything else my specific research may have needed because it might have been unique in a certain way or a template but for the most part it's pretty comprehensive. Good original planning and work, people doing these activities time and time again over the course of years. These templates have evolved really good now and really tight for what they address. I say no, everything was there and fairly nice. Copy the template and fill my own blanks with my content.

**Moderator:** You mentioned onboarding was fast and furious and you had actually work to get to. Once you went through onboarding and got to work, did you ever wish you remembered to find something?

**VFS team member:** Yeah so for me? One of the most important things was to quickly learn the design system. More importantly how the design system was used. By that I mean, hey I have a project and I have to show a warning message, how does VA show a warning message. Going through design system and staging site, but for me it was studying it and seeing how the design system elements transferred to a live environment. When I go to look at how the alert was done and I see it used a certain way. When I go to the file, there wasn’t a 1 on 1 match for. They left room for creativity, but the unfortunate part was the confusing part. As a new designer, trying to figure out what the relationship was of the design system and how it was being implemented was the really challenging part of figuring out how things go out. Now that’s a discussion over the past week everyone is trying to get their work and do it correctly. Everyone is hitting that roadblock, of how the design system is going and how to do their own work. We have that one in the big design meeting once a week and the small design meeting with Ad Hoc and GCIO.

Because there's onboarding for accessibility, zenhub, there wasn't an onboard for design. There was a little bit, but our team was providing me more onboarding. We’d pass on the knowledge to people coming on and those behind me. All these teams are separate as you know. A lot of things are consistent but there are things that are slightly different. The incoming team, looks at how their team, eBenefits team does it. I see other teams doing things differently, is that wrong? As a team, we figure out a better understanding. I understand more today than I did the first few weeks 

**Moderator:** Would you say the big design meeting, run by emily, was that helpful, or the small VSA wide meeting?

**VFS team member:** We have a larger one on the platform on mondays, and smaller tighter one on wednesdays. The one run by emily is helpful, people from different teams are on there, when someone asks a question a lot of answers from different perspectives answer. Which is nice as you’re trying to figure out design, you want to figure out the larger picture. Being on the authenticated experience team  what our team does, we touch a lot of the teams. When a user logs in their experience can differ slightly in each variant. To answer the question in the longest way possible, Emily’s meeting is helpful. As well as, Shawna’s personal guidance, esp she’s active on slack. Has been very helpful now that we got those down, we are getting into the weeds and now we're getting to dig deeper to see how we can improve and understand the design stuff at a more granular level.

**Moderator:** When Shawna was sending this information out what slack channel was that in, do you remember?

**VFS team member:** It was in the DSVS design channel and VSA design and we have GCIO and Ad Hoc we have one on one side since we meet together as a group so she posts on that as well. 

Now I have a better idea how to post things. When I have a larger audience, a wider view point of it. I’d post it on the DSVA design channel. This is a party where everyone’s at ask certain people with specialities. Something where I don't need a larger perspective, I’d post on DSVA design. The biggest difference between designers at Ad Hoc and GCIO we try to share perspective. When I go to DSVA, I get people who are really knowledge about that piece. Just to give them credit almost everyone on DSVA side, is very helpful in past presentations main slack channel. They’d reach out on the direct channel, do you understand that? Slack’s been awesome


**Moderator:**  Sounds great, sounds like you got answers to all your questions. We just want to understand where you went, how you went, what we can do to improve the process

Can you think of anything to improve?

**VFS team member:**  Still trying to figure out a few things. The design system is always revolving, we’re always finding new solutions in our design work, creating a new pieces, to add to the design system. It’s not a set of rules that you gotta memorize and have for the next 10 years. Maybe there’s something every few months to say this is what we’ve added to the design system. A lot of times that’s in slack or a meeting. Sometimes you can put something in slack, it can be bumped up from 40 replies. Sometimes it's all the time or overload I try to keep track how a person does things a certain way, maybe every quarter or month, there can be a quick meeting, these are the things added to the design system. This is the thing that designers are upcoming. I'm figuring out a place to put a message if we get undeliverable mail for a veteran. That verteran could be waiting on a pension check. In order to do that a lot of things need to happen if I was on another team, I’d want to know that.

Something’s that’s been researched, vetted, and added to the design system

Just a comprehensive listing of just so people can follow along, then I would know these new things have been added, I know in my mind that its been added to the design system, versus wasting time on figuring the method. Hey dude it’s already in the design system..great..soo..

**Moderator:**  Thank you for that and feel free to send me any of those docs I'd like to see them and understand how they live in github so that’ll be great. Thank you for your time Arthur

**VFS team member:** Thank you for your time
