# Rules of Engagement (ROE) - P4

*UX Designer, VFS - Authenticated Experience*

Tuesday October 29, 3:00pm ET

## Intro - 5 minutes

**Moderator:** Thanks for joining us today! My name is Naomi and I also have some colleagues on the line observing and taking notes. Today we're going to talk about the experience of the VFS team working with the VSP team.

Before we start, a few things I want to mention:

- **This entire session should take about 30 min.** I want to be sure not to keep you much longer, so I may occasionally prompt you with the next question or topic.

- **In this session, we want to hear your honest opinions.** We are not testing your ability. We just want to improve the process so we can all better meet Veteran's needs. I will not be offended by any opinions you express, and I welcome your feedback.

- **If for any reason and at any time you want to stop the session, please let me know.**

- Are you comfortable if I record my screen and audio as we talk today?

Yes absolutely.

**Moderator:** Once I start recording, I am going to confirm that you are ok with me recording this session once more.

*Start recording.*

- **I have started recording. I'd like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record my screen the audio as we talk today?"**

Yes.

## Interview questions for VFS team members

**Moderator:**  How long have you worked on veteran-facing tools?

I have been on this team for almost 2 years.

**Moderator:**  What is your practice area?

User experience - design and research.

**Moderator:**  Have you heard of the term Rules of Engagement? What does it mean to you?

No. _[Laughs]_

**Moderator:** What do you think that means to you?

In this context - I don't know. How to build on the platform... sort of, what are roles and processes, how does this team function. That would be my best guess.

**Moderator:**  Have you worked with this type of document before?

No, not really. I know we have some documentation on github that outlines how we work, and I know it's continuing to be created as part of the platform. I haven't really worked with documentation like that very much.

**Moderator:** Where do you go when you want to find general process and work norms?

Probably in... I forget what it is on Github. I forget what it is... in va.gov-team folder in... some sort of folder that kind of is distinguished from products and design stuff, then platform or whatever it's called to distinguish processes, how we work, how this team functions, that kind of stuff.
  
**Moderator:** Have you gone to this folder before for similar things?
  
I have used it before to find... information around how we conduct research to share that with folks even though I'm familiar with that protocol now, or to find a template that I know is in there. I think I was looking at it for something related to IA as well. I haven't needed it a ton. I have looked for a few things in there.
  
**Moderator:** Do you think there is documentation that exists today for the things you were describing for ROE for design and research?

I know there is research documentation for links to templates, that has been there for awhile. I'm not sure what's there for design, I havent' looked... I know we have a different design system website but that's all I'm aware of at the moment.

**Moderator:** At what points would you - say for research, go back and look for something related to research?

I've used it to find templates and used it to send to new folks joining the team. New people benefit from it the most, everyone everywhere does it a different way. That's mostly how we do it now, I kind of know how we do things. If there happens to be a question I have that I know I can find it there.

**Moderator:** How often do you get questions about that?

I have sent it to someone recently who is knew on the team, I odn't know if anhone has asked me about it or if I knew to send it to him.

**Moderator:** On your team, would it be your specific Authenticated Experience team?

It would be, but if I was talking to someone else on a different team on the contract I would send it to them too.

**Moderator:** Are they coming back to you with other questions?

I don't think so - I woul dhave to look at it again to see if there is anything missing.

**Moderator:** In general there hasn't been one thing people have asked you that you've thought we should add...

No.

**Moderator:** In general do you feel like the design system website has answered people's questions?

I don't know actually. I haven't used it a ton myself. I don't know.

**Moderator:** Is that because it doesnt have things relevant to what you're working on?

I haven't felt like I've needed it yet. I have used it a little bit but we have design system stuff in our Sketch files as well that gets updated frequently. So I have some of that there that gets updated and reference to see how big something is or small, some of that is also in those files.

**Moderator:** How do you know that it's been updated recently?

Sketch tells me.

**Moderator:** How often do you think it's been updated?

I don't know - I couldn't tell you. With some frequency - it has happened in the last month or last few weeks, maybe. I feel like I'm getting updates on that stuff with some regularity.

**Moderator:** In general was there anything our team could help you run the process more smoothly for you, with new people? Do you see any gaps with documentation?

There might be, but I'm not familiar enough with it. That is a really good questino for someone who is newer and might have a better memory about when they started, there was nothing written about xyz, I dont have a good sense of that. Someone who has started in the last few months probably would. I'm sure there are more things we can do to help people but I'm not sure what they are.

**Moderator:** In the future if there are things people are coming to you for that would make sense for us to help with and document, please feel free to reach out to me directly.

I will!

## Thank-You and Closing - X minutes

Well, we really appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us today. Your feedback is so helpful to us as we continue to work on the process and make sure that it works for the VFS team.

Great, well thank you so much again, and enjoy the rest of your day!            
