# Decision log

Date | Decision | Notes
---| --- | ----
1/2024 | Accrued beenfits will not be included in the URL for the Survivor compensation and accured benefits section, but will be in the H1 | Accrued benefits is not a type of compensation per se, but it is not needed for the overall URL, we will include it in the H1.  This provides flexibility to continue evaluating whether there is a better home for this content and keeps the URL for this section shorter. 
1/2024 | Life insurance content will remain in the Veteran hub | Related to decision regarding benefits that require the Veteran to apply, life insurance content and applications will remain in the Veteran hub.  Some content will be included in the family hub and links to full content will be provided.
1/2024 | Fiduciary content will not live in the family member hub | Content on this topic can be added to Resources and support for, further evaluation is needed to deteremine where, if anywhere, does it belong within the modernized benefits experience.  Fiduciary role is not limited to a family member. 
1/2024 | Benefits that require the Veteran to apply on behalf of the family member will remain in the Veteran benefit hub | Content could exist in both places (not necessarily as full pages), but the application will exist within the Veteran space only (i.e. FSGLI, accelerated ben) 
1/2024 | Applications/forms that are utilized by both Veterans and family members, will live in the Veteran hub | 
08/2023 | Family member benefits = Benefits where the family member is the beneficiary of the benefit, or receives the benefit | This will be used to determine what lives within the family hub. 
08/2023 | Scope for this initial effort will focus on the explore and apply content and forms of the family benefit experience, and resources and support pages. <br> We will not be moving pages and features related to managing or tracking your benefits into the family hub. | Manage tools serve both Veterans and family members and cannot be duplicated.  <br>Some manage tools are not clear on if or how well they support family members.  <br>The broader auth experience will work to better organize auth tools, while the benefit hub optimization goal is to focus on explore and apply content. 
