# VAHRC Representative Interview Conversation Guide
Session 1 | 02.25.2021

Key takeaways
-------

* About her:
  * Supervisory program analyst moving into a policy analyst position, responsible for veteran services at the Northeast Patient Accounting Center
  * Works primarily with first party accounts and adjustments
  * Works primarily in reactionary back office (90%), if she is hearing from a Veteran, it's through a referral from HRC or Facility Revenue, and they're in a bad situation. 
* First party adjustments
  * First avenue for payment is through third party payments to reduce the amount Veterans owe.
  * Audits are done to remove bills that are deemed service-connected, sometimes by nurses, which can take up to 30-60 days. 
  * Uncollectable, delinquent payments are referred to the DMC at 120 days delinquent (or 150 days from the statement date)
  * Debts age out beyond 180 days and become old
  * Bills less than $25 are deemed unworthy of collection action
* Veteran pain points
  * VA is very different from outside entities, so Veterans are confused when they get a copay bill after recieving their Explanation of Benefits from their insurance saying the bill was paid. This leads Veterans to being sent to the Treasury, since they don't think they owe money.
  * Veterans don't understand copay structures or what they're responsible for
  * Having expired Means tests and suddenly having copayments
  * Veterans have keyed in the wrong account numbers and misapply their payment to someone else's bill.
  * A Veteran's record does not really carry between facilities, leading them to sometimes pay the wrong facility.
* Resolutions
  * Waiver request and payment plans are equally popular options
  * Veterans can almost immediately be sent to TOP if their payments become delinquent and their payment plan revoked
  * Usually by the time write offs are requested, it's because it's been delinquent for awhile and their benefits are suddenly being garnished.
  * Only had one compromise last year vs. 300-500 requests per week for waivers and payment plans
  * Requests have increased 300-400% across the country since COVID started
  * Waiver and repayment plan requests need to be worked quickly to prevent referral to treasury and fees.
  * Veterans do not need to send in a 5655 for repayment plans
  * Repayment plans can be requested with 1100 or just over the phone or in writing
  * VA Form 21-4138 is for added context for why they're asking for a waiver or write off
- Flow Feedback:
  - Depending on what date the statements go out, a Veteran can wait more than 30 days to get a statement for services rendered
  - They always get 3 statements for each service, unless it is paid. A subsequent month’s balance will roll over to the next statement
  - We tell vets to pay because we can refund you if your insurance doesn’t come through because that’s a lot better than being sent to treasury
  - The fourth letter comes from DMC
- Form 1100:
  - VHA can't set up payroll deductions for non-VA employee Veterans
  - They advise Veterans resend the Form 1100 every 90 days, because it's only for past debts
  - Veterans who try to pay new bills may forget to pay directly on the specific K-number of their recent bill, which leads to some people unwittingly paying toward their payment plans




Transcript
-------

**What is your role?**

I'm a supervisory program analyst moving into policy analyst position. I'm responsible for veteran services at the northeast patient accounting center. We handle transactional actions in first party accounts. Copay adjustments, claims matching, deaths, bankruptcies, any adjustment that's happening in the first party account is handled by my department.

**Tell me more about the different services your department provides**

Veterans get copays if they're copay required, based on their priority groups. The first avenue is we claims match 3rd party payments to first party accounts that reduces the amount of money a veteran will owe. It's a direct financial relief for the veteran. If a veteran is deemed service connected, we do audits of the accounts and remove bills related to service connection. Some of these have to be reviewed by nurses, while others are in house. We also do account adjustments for Veterans for when there's a death, etc. If a veteran files for bankruptcy, we put a stay on their account. We handle account adjustments for when collection action hasn't been successful, we refer to treasury offset, cross servicing, DMC, to collect on outstanding debts. When we can't collect, we go in and decrease those accounts because they sit in our AMR and are aged out. They can be rather old, 6 years old. The other thing we do is when bills are deemed unworthy of collection action (like below $25). It's any kind of handling of account adjustments on first party payments. Sometimes we do match to third party bills. We increase, decrease, or reestablished bills.

**If the veteran is service connected, you'll adjust the account... how long does that take, start to finish?**

It's not always instantaneous. What we work of is what is in Vista. When we're notified by HEC that a veteran is service connected, we will go back and look at all of the bills that are involved in that service connection. It depends on the percentage of disability. If it's 50-100 service connected, we can wipe bills out for that time period. If it went back to 1990 and they're 50-100 service connected, the Veteran doesn't pay a copay at that point. We wipe out all of the debt.

**How long to get a nurse review?**

I'm not sure. Usually if it's an individual, it can be anywhere from 10-30 days for review. Right now, it's quick. Other cases it's 30-60 days.

**When collection isn't successful, you mentioned it would be sent to DMC or cross servicing... do you know at what point it converts from patient statement to DMC?**

When the bill becomes 120 days delinquent. A bill hits the statement, on day 31, it becomes delinquent. Prior to referring, DMC will evaluate the Veteran for service connection, if it is, then they will collect through VBA benefits.

**What experience do you feel will be valuable to us?**

I can tell you a lot of our veteran's pain points. I think what is so confusing - because the VA is so different from outside entities - we match third party payments and can eliminate your copay. What's hard for the Veteran is that we can only send 3 pieces of mail through the PRA. They think their insurance should pay their bills and then they get sent to treasury. It's not always clear to a veteran based on an EOB. It's the insurance piece is more confusing for a veteran. Those without insurance are less confused, they get a bill and pay it. Not understanding the copay structure and how it's connected to their Means test, they sometimes get caught up in our billing cycle. They don't know enough to navigate their way out.

**You mentioned they don't understand copay caveats, do veterans know which tier they're in?**

I think they understand which tier they're in. If they don't have insurance, they just come in and pay their bill. But for insurance, they don't understand the copay after getting an EOB from their insurance. If the Veteran saw a PCP in the public and their insurance pays, they won't have a copay. When you get into medicare age, medicare says there's no charge yet they have a copay responsibility. Understanding the verbiage of copay responsibility in VA terms means something different than out in the public. Older veterans don't know how to advocate for themselves.

**Do you work with Veterans directly?**

90% of my job and my staff is reactive on the back end. Working on becoming more proactive. If I'm hearing from a Veteran, then they're really up against the wall.

**How do they get in touch with you?**

We have the HRC that they call. That's usually the first call to tell them they have a problem. HRC has many ways to contact us, but it's mostly through the dynamics portal. A Veteran will dispute the debt, the HRC will send it over and reviewed. We decide if the bill should've occurred. We can force print a notification. Outside of that, they can go into a facility and see facility revenue to deal with that. We handle misapplied payments, they can key in their wrong account number and they pay the wrong person's bill - it happens. The other hard part is that Veterans can be seen at any facility, but their account number is related to their facility. They can pay the wrong facility and then get sent to treasury.

**So it's very separate?**

Yes. I can look at any facilities in my CPAC, but I won't see details from another CPAC.

**Do you have any knowledge about what type of assistance people request more often?**

Waiver request and payment plans are neck and neck. As long as the Veteran is in good standing or communicates with us, we will keep them on the payment plan. If they go delinquent, sometimes they'll be sent immediately to TOP. They provide documentation to us to make an evaluation on the waiver request. When bills hit after 180 days, write off are required. Normally, once we hit the write-off request, it's been delinquent for a while and they're getting garnished benefits. They can ask for a compromise - this last year, I had one. Right now, I get 300-500 requests a week for waivers, write offs, or repayment plans. Prior to COVID, we were looking at 100-200 requests a week, so it's 300-400% higher right now.

It's important to work the waiver and repayment plan as quickly as possible because in those two scenarios, we're trying to prevent a veteran from being sent to treasury. Because the debt is the age it is (180+), we don't suspend that. Collection action continues on older debts.

**Earlier you mentioned if someone's on a repayment plan and they stop submitting payments, they can be referred to treasury?**

We notify in writing that they need to make the payment up before the end of their next statement . When they've missed two payments, we notify them that they're no longer on a payment plan and remove the system protection, so it doesn't have that ability to be referred to treasury. We refer to treasury on Monday night.

You can always email me for followup questions.

---

**Task 1**

* If a bill comes onto the account, whatever the billing cycle is, they're not gonna get a bill until the next month. It's very fluid. If the bill came on the 15th of the month, but their statements come on the 20th, that bill would be that month's statement.
* We judge best by statement date in the system. There's a system that shows what days they print.
* They always get 3 statements for each service, unless it is paid. A subsequent month's balance will roll over to the next statement.
* Reasons that insurance may not pay:
  * Insurance could say that the medication is no longer needed.
  * If billing is delayed, they might not pay in 90 days.
* We tell vets to pay because we can refund you if your insurance doesn't come through because that's a lot better than being sent to treasury.
* Ask David Adcock for a calendar. There's a Vista patch that's adjusting and fixing that date.
* 31 day is the first day of delinquency, and referral is based on delinquency.
* There's a fourth letter that comes from VBA DMC, the letter says 'hey you have debt, this is who you owe it to, and you need to take action or we're gonna start collecting on it'
* An account can continue to get statements, it just won't have the detail that the first three had
* First statement - no interest of admin fees

Second statement - interest and admin charges, officially delinquent

* A bill has two lives, bill date and age and its delinquent life. The first 30 days is the honeymoon period, you have 30 days to pay it before we penalize you.
* It could be 45 days after service before they get a first statement, it depends on the print date.
* Bills don't go out on the first day. Statement dates are not the same as bill date.
* When you're looking at a bill / account in vista, it shows you the last time a statement was sent, but you can also go into the bill profile and see when the last time they got a bill. It tells you the statement date - letter 1 date, .., letter 4 would inform them that they're looking into advanced collection options (letter 4 from DMC)

**Why do they think a copay is incorrect?**

Because they think it's service connected or related to a special condition that qualifies (i.e. Camp Lejeune), there could be many reasons a veteran is receiving a charg.e they could've been asked to participate in a test procedure, but then they get billed. Sometimes it's just because they were not copay required before. P group 5 is required to take a means test, so they're required based on their income. Their means test expired so they have to dispute / redo their means test.

**Form 1100**

* David would like that form changed because of the second section. We **can't** set up a payroll deduction for them, unless they are a VA employee. In our department, we put an X through the section, we don't allow it. If the Veteran wants to pay through payroll deductions, they have to go to their payroll to request it, and then they might not stop it when they should. It becomes a vicious cycle --- a charge comes off of their pay, we refund, ad nauseam.
* The agreement to pay indebtedness is only for debts on the books now, no future. A Veteran could set up a repayment plan and be paying on it and not realize that they got new bills. They'll go in and pay, but their payment will go toward the oldest bill. If they don't pay the newest bills, they could be sent to treasury.
* What we tell people is that, every 90 days, you need to resend this again.
* It's hard to pay K-number = bill number K123456\. If they don't specify the K-number on the bill, they're probably not paying the right thing.
* They don't have to submit 5655 for repayment plan. A repayment plan can be asked for on the phone or written on a piece of paper. It doesn't have to be a form, the form just makes it tidy.

**Do you ever get 5655 for repayment plans?**

All the time, they'll send both. They'll ask for a waiver, but if they can't do it, they'll do a repayment plan.

* 5655 is not required for a repayment plan. If you look over on the FSR, if you blow that up, they'll write in their waiver, write-off, compromise. They can put waiver/writeoff. When they submit this, we'll look at all of the bills on the account at that time.

* If we find 5655 incomplete, we will send notification to the Veteran that it's incomplete and we need more information.

**What parts are incomplete?**

Sometimes they'll put that they're married but only put one income. They won't sign it. Our biggest one is that they have no money, but won't list their expenses. Or you'll get a request for a write off but won't supply bank information.

Statement of Case --- VA Form 21-4138\.  It's where the Veteran tells us why they're asking for a waiver or a write off. It's normally required.  During COVID, people are losing their jobs, so my MEANS test shows I have money, but I don't.

Attached to 5655\.
