VAHRC Representative Interview
-----

Daniel Conner | March 2,  2021

Key Takeaways
-----

* Role works to ensure all first-party bills are recorded and sent out to Veterans; assists VHA teams in CPACs to bill third-party bills to insurance companies
* Veteran's Service is another department (David works there) who assist Veterans with their first-party medical care questions, debt relief options, and payments
* There are 132 big medical centers grouped into 7 CPACs
  * Veterans may receive bills from different CPACs if they get medical care from hospitals in different regions (i.e. goes to a hospital in Pennsylvania and then moves south for the winter and receives care in Florida)
  * CPACs only have VISTA access to the medical centers in their region
  * HRC has VISTA access too all the medical centers in the nation
* Facility Revenues is also responsible for ensuring that third-party insurance claims are processed correctly so insurance companies pay them timely and don't deny the claim
* 'Special authority' - special types of healthcare problems that are generalized a specific group (ex. Agent Orange)
  * Doesn't need rating
  * Folks with 'special authority' do not have to pay a copay no matter the circumstances
* Frustrations with AccessVA:
  * Veterans misunderstand 'statements from the last 6 months' to mean they can see their last 6 statements
  * When Veterans were sent letters in November informing them of copay bills, they weren't be able to see the charges if the copay charge was older than 6 months - this caused a lot of stress
  * Thinks there needs to be a defined number of statements that can be viewed at a time instead of '6 months' - has been asked for 36 months worth of statements before
* Would like to see an online solution that allows Veterans to both see their copay bills and make payments online
  * If a Veteran wants to make a payment right now they would need their statement information and manually input the amount and account number
* There have been cases where Veterans have immediately called to pay their bill but they will still receive a copayment bill for the same amount depending on when it's processed and the bill is sent
* If a bill has been referred to DMC and the Veteran receives a subsequent bill, then the DMC charges will be rolled up together and displayed on that new copay bill


Interview Questions - 30 min
-----

**About their work/departments**

First, I'd like to ask you a little bit about your job and department.

* How would you describe your role?

Sure. I am the VHA Revenue Operations Facility Revenue Policy Analyst. Every VA hospital has someone called a Facility Revenue Manager and a team of technicians. They're responsible for ensuring all first-party, meaning Veteran responsibility co-payments, are correctly recorded and billed as well as assisting the VHA teams at the CPAC in billing other private insurances to cover cost of care for private insurance. One's first party, which we bill the Veteran. Third party is the insurance companies. VA is the one healthcare organization in the world that bills their own copay. Any payments received from insurance company penny for penny is applied towards a Veteran's copayment debt. That's called claims matching.

M: Are you over at a single facility?

Every facility has a distinct facility manager.  Every VA hospital. It's like an administrator at a large hospital. I define the policy and procedures for all those locations.

M: Sounds stressful!

It can be, yeah! My background before I can into Facility Revenue, there's a group within VHA with is Veteran's Services. David Adcock is the Veteran's Services policy analyst. Probably more direct for your group, but they deal with Veteran's related to their first-party medical care questions, debt relief, and payments. I used to work in that group with David. I helped design some of the debt relief systems.

M: How your role is different now compared to David's role?

David's group, the Veteran's already been billed for their copayment and they need help or relief or questions about paying it. My group is concerned with getting those first-party claims billed out as well as getting third-party insurance claims billed out for gaining revenue for the facility. On first-party customer service we're two sides of the same coin.

M: Your stuff comes first and then once it reaches the Veteran it's David's group?

Correct. 100% spot on.

* Tell me about your department and the services it provides.

Sure. The VA has 132 big medical centers. I think there's 140 medical entities for billing. We'll call it 130 to be even. Those 130 VA hospitals are divided into 7 regions. These regional centers are called CPACS. Basically these 7 regional entities are in charge of first-party copayment billing and third-party insurance billing and collections. Inside the CPAC you have facility revenue, veteran's services (david's group), CPAC billing (third party claims), OPAC group (bills out third party RX claims - so behind the counter at CVS billing insurance), Accounts management (third party followup),

M:  Does that happen within first 90 days before Veteran knows bout the bill?

Yes and then it continues after that

M: So if the Veteran ends up paying you want the insurance company to pay so you can refund the Veteran?

Right so the ideal path is the Veteran comes in and gets m medical care, the insurance company pays us and everything is honky dory. Happening in the first 90 days. In reality it happens differently. Insurance companies deny the claim or underpay the claim for whatever reason. All that happens in account management. They'll follow up to get more money.

M: You also deal with some third party?

Basically the facility revenues does scrubbing and make sure the elements are there. We want to make sure all the elements are there. We don't want the insurance companies to deny our claims because we didn't file the paperwork correctly. We make sure it has all the codes, provider names, etc. to make sure it gets processed correctly and paid accurately and on time.

M: And the Veteran isn't aware?

Most aren't. Some are really connected to their insurance companies and they'll know if the claim is submitted, but most of them aren't. Most of them want to know if their insurance company paid.

Insurance verification department (they call the company and verify the policy is good), revenue utilization department (team of nurses who review claims from medical necessity and special authority exemption, clinical determinations for medical claims)

M: I've heard 'special authority' a couple times

Before I define 'special authority', let me defined 'service connected'.

Person goes into the service, comes out, and has a service connected condition that's been reviewed by the VBA, and that disability or condition gets a rating percentage (service-connected). So I am rated at a 10% rated for a condition post-traumatic stress disorder. All of that is specific and individual to the Veteran. Then 'special authority' relates to special types of healthcare problems that are generalized into a certain group. depending on other conditions. The most common one is agent orange from Vietnam. If they served in a certain region at a certain time they're presumed for being exposed to Agent Orange. Then they're evaluated and put into that category. The one more common now is military sexual trauma (MST), more common for female Veterans. How all those work is if there's care or medication to treat one service-connected condition or a special authority care,  there's no charge no matter what. And we cannot bill insurance companies. So that's why we have a department to review those claims in case it wasn't marked that way.

There are times when they overlap. You can be Agent Orange special authority and service-connected for a heart disease related to that special authority. Special authority also doesn't need to be rated at a percentage.

M: Can you tell me about the systems you use?

In my role we use VISTA for billing of first and third party charges. I'll speak to first party. We bill out copayments to Veterans if they're copay required. Most first party copayment billing is automated. There's certain exceptions such as community care that need to be manually created. We also use a system from a company called 'Hear On Healthcare Solutions' and they have a workflow tool and basically it's a glorified work lift of items from a data pool in VISTA.

M: Is that pretty standard?

Yes. All the CPAC teams and departments use the workflow tool.

M: Is it pretty much the same work list for each Veteran?

They vary depending on the type of work being done. There's a community care lift, third party lift, all topical in nature depending on the action being performed. You'll have a topical lift for each VA hospitals. They're all split up by facility.

M: Do you think that could be of some use to what we're doing?

No. As a Veteran customer I would like an application on my phone,  iPad, or computer so I can see my balance of my copayments. It's like my credit card application. I'd like to be able to see it and pay my balance. The barrier is every VA hospital has their own VISTA billing system. They all say VA on the side of the building but each hospital is its own little kingdom. It's like 132 different credit card companies. They all say MasterCard but they're all different companies. There is no one interconnected big computer system of all the bills on the VHA copayment side. In order to make what I said happen, you would need to create an application that would tap in, in real time, to see their balance. The user would have to log in.

I know there's some initiatives to work on that stuff, but there's no way right now where a Veteran can look at their balance for any hospital nationwide.

M: Each facility has its own VISTA environment?

Yes

M: Do you think having this application online would impact how you work at all?

So, inside the VA we already have access to see all the stuff in the VISTA systems in which we have access. I have access to 20 hospitals worth of data. If I have a case I can help a Veteran with I can go under account and get that information. The HRC has access to all the systems individually. it doesn't really effect us, but it'll effect the Veteran because instead of having to call, if they're technology savvy they can go into their smartphone and get to their balance. Then in the future they could make a payment. Just seeing their balance is a huge leap!

M: You alluded to this that you occasionally get to help Veterans - how often?

Maybe 3-4 times a year. Or someone will ask me a general question and we'll review together. I had someone last week reach out to me from a different part oof the VA because the person had a revenue-related question and we had to dig up and research into various systems to find where the Veteran was located because t hat's another big barrier - if the Veteran has debt in more than one VA hospital then they get three different statements from three different hospitals with the balances. If they don't make a payment with the correct coupon, it may go to the wrong hospital. It also means that if they cross state lines it may be a different one of the 7 CPACs. If they're a snowbird in Florida but from Pennsylvania, that's two different CPACs. All the VA's aren't connected, it's. more like McDonalds. They all say McDonalds but they're all operated independently.

M: So does that happen often? Getting a bill from different place?

It depends on how mobile they are. The snowbirds example is an apt one. It works east to west as well. It's not uncommon to have balances at different VA's in different parts of the country. 

About the Veterans
-----

Next, I want to learn a little more about the Veterans themselves

* What kind of problems do you think Veterans are experiencing with their copayments today?

Let's talk pre-pandemic. As a Veteran customer, the first thing is,  one fo the problems today is there's noway to look in real time what their balance is. They need to call or receive their patient statement. You have to be inside the system to see it. It doesn't exist. Veterans know their balance from month-to-month on their statement. But if there was an electronic solution they could see it in real time. They have to use paper month-to-month statements or call someone. Second, they have no way to request a waiver for instance, or repayment plan on their account online. They have to call someone, write someone, or go to a hospital. There's no modern way to do any of those things. You have [Pay.gov](http://pay.gov/) but you need the statement account number to be able to pay it. Even if you have the statement, it's not intuitive how to pay it. You have to bring the amount to pay and account number to pay it. Then you won't get a receipt until you pay that amount. It's as bad as I'm making it out to be.

M: So functionally it sucks to not be billed for 15-25 days or whatever. Are you aware, if the Veteran was to call whomever and ask 3 days ago?

We can see it. A VISTA user - if the Veteran calls then the HRC agents can see that no problem.

M: Can the Veteran then pay that service or do they have to wait for their statement?

They can contact HRC, and HRC can accept a payment. When they call, HRC logs into [Pay.gov](http://pay.gov/) portal, takes the data they see on the screen, and enters it in for the Veteran.

M: So they're just paying the last statement?

In theory, they could pay their last statement or they could say, 'hey you owe $100' and the Veteran could pay that amount.

M: That feels weird, right?

Yeah. The HRC agents are fantastic. Christina Andrews can answer questions you may have about that.

M: If they were to call the HRC,  the HRC goes to [Pay.gov](http://pay.gov/) and makes a payment not yet made on a statement. Can that cause a problem not he backend?

Yeah, if the bill hasn't been released, it creates a credit unless manually changed to release the charges. If not, the Veteran could receive a bill on something already paid.

Veterans have not gotten a statement since last April. They get charges, but hadn't received a statement until January 2021\. We were trying not to stress Veterans out. Well, for the Veterans in that danger group it was okay. But some Veterans wanted to pay immediately. So they were hot about that and were calling in to make payments anyway. We're trying to do the right thing by not giving them any financial stressors, but the ones who wanted to pay were stressed. Then in January a lot of them got a huge bill so that was a financial stressor. So that whole thing has been a bad loop. Looks like they're gonna get rid of all those copayments from April - September - that's what's been proposed. Right now it's been a mess. In November we sent a letter that said, "hey this is your balance, this isn't a bill but in case you do this is your balance." they left off the statement account numbers off the letter. So there were 7-8,000 payments lost. The VISTA system is built on COBOL, one of the first programming languages. MUMPS now. It's built for small hospitals in the 70s, 80s, 90s, and now we're in 2020s. Everything's built on this archaic model. It's not a modern way to do things.

M: We've heard that people will get 3 statements that get very specific line items. After the third statement it starts rolling up and doesn't show specific charges?

That's not quite how it works. How it works is, let's start with a charge. Veteran goes to the hospital and is copay required. They have to pay a copayment. $15 primary care visit. Let's pretend they don't have health insurance. They're seen, it goes into the VISTA integrated billing system, that charge will pass to the accounts receivable system. Then it goes into the open status. Open status is a bill that hasn't been released. When the statement cycle is run on a certain day of the month, the patient is sent first statement. Also called 'letter 1'. Letter 1 is initial notice of indebtedness. In order for a bill to be referred for collection at either DMC or treasury system, it must have certain number of letter 1, 2, and 3 dates populated. An individual statement will only be generated 3 times. After that, that bill still appears under billing statement, but unless there's another copayment charge with letter 1, 2, and 3, that patient statement cycle won't run. If they stop getting copayments, they won't get a patient statement for any bill that's past its letter 3 date.

M:  After it's referred to DMC, it doesn't appear under the statement if they acquire another copay bill?

They'll have a balance that includes the debt referred to DMC plus any new charges

M: All those old charges are rolled up into a single figure, right?

Yes

M: They're no longer broken out into s specific charges?

Correct

M: Can you see those charges if you look back?

Yup. That's for DMC. Treasury has two systems: TOP referral system or cross-servicing program. Depending upon how old the debt is, if it's older than August 2015 it's referred to TOP and that works the same way as DMC. However, if it's newer than August 2015, it'll be referred to cross-servicing. Once that bill reaches delinquency and it's referred to cross-servicing,  it will not show up in the balance as long as it's referred to cross-servicing.

M: Will it reappear if treasury isn't able to collect on it?

If treasury isn't able to collect, they will return it at some point and it will reappear. if the Veteran passes away treasury will return it. If the charges are disputed at treasury then they will return it. If the balance falls lower than $25 it will be returned. If VA recalls it then it would reappear on their balance.

Flexible task 2: Current solution
-----

* Can you tell me more about the way Veterans can view their copay bills online today?

M: Have you seen this before?

I have seen the Veteran Patient Statement yes

M: This is available through Access VA?

I have seen that, yes. It only lists their last 6 months of statements. THere's a lot of confusion because when people read last 6 months they think it's last 6 statements. Not all the statements that appeared in the last 6 months of time.

M: Do you think people want more than 6 months?

I think people want to see back to 3 years. I've heard Veterans asking that and I've had to make that statement using Excel.

M: So you can't access previous systems?

Nope, we have to access it through Access VA. But Christina Andrews can't access it either. At some point there's a data storage limit, I get it. To hold 2.5 million Veterans' last 6 statements, that's like 14 million PDFs sitting somewhere in a file in the sky. That's not small. So if you could see the last 36 months of statements, you need a static number that makes sense for everyone. Last 6 months isn't good. Last 18 statements would work. Or last 12 statements. 12 statements could be 5 years or 1 year. The last 6 months isn't always helpful.

M: Yeah that could be nothing.

For a lot of Veterans it is nothing. Because of COVID they couldn't go in to see their past statements because it had been 8 months.

I've seen when they go to Washington and Baltimore, they're back and forth, and then Florida etc. If a statement goes out it'll show up. This isn't well known to Veterans, by the way.

M: Is there anything else you think this isn't fulfilling the Veteran need?

It's hard to find, not easy to see, doesn't work well with all the browsers. It doesn't play well with IE or Chrome on my phone. Last 6 months - they think it's last 6 statements. People understand a static number, but once a month I hear it would be nice to see last 6 statements. Beginning in September Veterans didn't have anything to see due to COVID. If they wanted to see their statement from march in November, they could see their Jan + Feb statements if it was last 6 statements.

Thank-You and Closing - 2 min
-----

That's all the questions I have for you!

* Do you have any questions for me?

David Adcock. I'd recommend Christina Andrews at the HRC. She can talk a lot about patient payments - she's part of the customer service group.

Great, well thank you so much again, and enjoy the rest of your day!
