VAHRC Representative Interview
-----

Brian Glynn | March 3, 2021

Key Takeaways
-----

* Role: North Central CPAC CFO
  * Works with third-party side billing and helping Veterans with their copayments
* Working on a side. project to revise the patient billing statements
  * Going to be receiving feedback from VSOs and Veterans
* HRC will send Veterans forms to fill out, but CPAC receives and processes those forms
* Believes Veterans misunderstand the copayment process; thinks the information could be more available
* Doesn't like VA Form 1100 because it doesn't capture the Veteran's financial situation like VA Form 5655 (Financial Status Report) does
  * "It's not good for the Veteran and it's not good for us because it doesn't give me enough information to know  whether or not the payment plan is good for them."
* Thinks it may not be possible to gather real-time data due to there being 150 different medical facilities
  * Will need to verify through technical discovery
* Debt passes through DMC before being sent to Treasury to see if the Veteran is service-connected and has benefits to offset
* Veterans are sent to Treasury more than he would like
  * Thinks being very clear and providing information that they will be sent to Treasury after 120 days may reduce the number of Veterans referred to Treasury

Transcript
-----

If you wouldn't mind introducing yourself and what your role is at the VA?

My name is Brian Glenn. I'm the North Central CPAC CFO. There are 7 across the nation. We're not only dealing with the third party side billing insurance, but we work with Veterans with their copayments. I want to be involved because throughout our normal processes we see the complaint  a lot of Veterans have with their billing statements and we help set them up with payment plans and compromises when applicable. We really do have a hand working with the Veteran one-on-one along with HRC. They also refer items to us - we do the research with our revenue utilization nurses to make sure that is correct. If it is, then we do a refund for anything they might have paid. Just as another note, I'm also working on a project to help revise the patient billing statements. We're working with the office of patient advocacy and the office of community care. Kinda got pulled in based on that project. I think it would benefit us as an organization and what we do on a day-to-day basis.

M: Patient statement improvements, it's nebulous to me at this point. Can you describe what the primary goal is for that project?

Have you seen the current statement?

M: Yes

Give me two seconds, I'll show you what I'm talking about. If you've seen the current statement and the back of the current statement, my analogy is... I don't read the back of my credit card statement. And I liken the back of the current statement to that. The idea was with the Veterans Experience Office in collaboration with the Office of Community Care is to make it more user friendly, easily understood, and so this is just a mockup right now (sharing screen). For the most part it's a much more friendly statement. We've been working with those folks on a monthly call basically to update this and get it ready for production. So, if you know what the current statement looks like this is very much improved. The thing we've been working on mostly to be honest is working with OGC to make sure we have the right verbiage and legal requirements. I think we're at the point where we're going to implement and then have Veterans Service Organizations and Veterans give us some feedback. Those are kind of our next steps right now. I have a meeting next week to get into the technical printing and requirements there. In essence this is the new statement we've been working on. Much more intuitive in my mind, user-friendly and more easily understood for the Veteran.

M: Is this a part of the initiative to combine statements and bills from VA or is this something happening sooner while that work happens?

Right now there's a hold on all patient statements. So we're waiting on some legislative action to see where we move forward. My goal is if we know we're not going to bill interest and admin fees until September of this year, my hope is that this is what's going to replace it when they do finally come out.

M: Are you the lead on this initiative?

I guess you could say that! Our project team is graduating this week so two of the members, one of the other CFOs that works with HRC is staying on so we will be continuing the effort but I'm probably one of the leads.

M: Can you tell me more about the services between HRC and CPAC?

So, we both kind of provide education to Veterans. A lot of times if it comes down to a Veteran saying they're having a hard time paying this, we're the ones doing that to get that done. HRC a lot of times fields calls but when it comes to the actual application of some of that stuff they send it to us. We make the contacts, make the adjustments, and send that stuff out.

M: So if I was a Veteran and I told the HRC that I won't be able to make payments on it, would they immediately send them off to you all or be able to trigger the form to be sent out?

They may send the form out directly but the return would be to us. They wouldn't be processing the actual request, it would be one of our 7 CPACs

* What would your involvement be in this product development process, ideally?

Uhm, I guess anywhere I can lend a hand I'm happy to. I truly believe that we need to take the statements digital. I know there's the capability through My HealtheVet but I want to see what we could do to push the boundaries a little more. I think a lot of Veterans are tech savvy enough to have an app on their phone. I think there's things we could do to make it better. Having options to click a link and go to [VA.gov](http://va.gov/) with their pertinent information would be good. Just having a link to [Pay.Gov](http://pay.gov/) is only part of it. Instead of fumbling around wondering where to go to to this, or how to submit a waiver, I don't know if it was Leah showing the process, it was very iterative and I thought it was very good. Do I really want to print that or send it to the right CPAC based on location? I think there's opportunities to make this a great product and think, "wow, the VA's really upped their game".

M: You mentioned they could check their statements in My HealtheVet?

I'm a Veteran, I'm over 60% service connected so I don't get statements. But there is a way you can go in and view them. I'll be honest I haven't seen that because I don't have access to it right now. I know that it comes through the CCPC that HRC uses. It basically gets uploaded from there

M: What's CCPC again?

It's a repository and an interface at the same time. I don't know the acronym off the top of my head

M: These statements in My HealtheVet, are you sure? Or is it AccessVA? We know about that one

I'm thinking it was My HealtheVet but unsure about AccessVA

M: You think there's parts that could be streamlined. Do you have specifics about where we should focus?

Once the statement's there, okay what do I do with it? Right now it's just view only. We need to have the options there for clicking the link to [Pay.Gov](http://pay.gov/). Being able to walk through the process of setting up a payment plan or submitting a waiver electronically. We see a lot of delay. The Veterans request something, half submit the form, and we're doing this back and forth through the mail. Ideally I want an email that would go out and say, "Hey, your statement is available on [VA.gov](http://va.gov/) - check it out here" and get away from the manual statements we send every month. Give people the opportunity to opt into paperless right now.

* What sort of experience or knowledge do you have that you feel will be valuable for us to draw from when designing for online VHA debt tools?
* What problems are you hoping to solve by bringing VHA debts to [VA.gov](http://va.gov/)? 

From our perspective, we get a lot of house inquiries regarding debt. By having that in one location with the right information there is going to limit those inquiries because it's not gonna be, "Well why am I getting billed for this?" because that information will be available for Veterans without having too contact us or patient advocates or their congressional leaders.

M: These inquiries are, "What the heck happened?" and they'e asking questions?

Everyone has the right to go to their Congressman but we have a turnaround time for those inquiries. We have to look into the acquisition or claim to make sure it's accurate, reach out to the Veteran at that time to help them understand it or provide additional resources and support. A lot of times we're sending a letter to that Congressional official to resolve a complaint.

M: Where do you think the gap is there?

There's a lot of misunderstanding, you know, "My recruiter said I was going to get free healthcare for my whole life". Claims not being processed timely so not billed timely. The first copayment doesn't go out for months or a year later so people wonder why they're getting billed for something that happened a year ago. Having that information up front will better help them understand the process.

* Do you think there are any other opportunities to improve the copay debt process for Veterans?
* What are some opportunities to improve workflows for folks on the VA side?

Yeah, so that's where I said the efficiencies, if I prepare a waiver on the debt landing page why cant I submit it to the appropriate CPAC? If all the information is there, we'll be able to handle it and turn it around quickly. We've got 7 CPACs, our CPAC handles \[midwest states\]. If you say you're going to Madison, that waiver request should route directly to us and be able to be worked within a day of receiving it. I think there's deficiencies there. Gotta print it, mail it, could be a couple days before we get it, but having that almost instant sent can benefit us in serving our Veterans and making sure they're getting their answers taken care of.

* How do you think bringing VHA debts to [VA.gov](http://va.gov/) will help you achieve your goals?
* Are there other initiatives that could potentially overlap or conflict with this work?

No, I don't think so. VBA has their information up there so it's a matter of VHA to get up there.

M: Do you think the VHA data will drastically differ from VBA?

I don't think drastically. It's different debt. They're dealing with benefit debt while we're dealing with medical debt.

* What are your biggest concerns about the project?

I can't think of anything off the top of my head. Getting the information accessible is the big step. I think Veterans having access to that information whether they're logging in through My HealtheVet or some other type of ID and making sure that type of information is secure would be my only concern.

M: I'm gonna share my screen real quick. So this is a screen cap during a demo. This is just through AccessVA. Have you seen this before?

Possibly, but it's not ringing any bells right now

M: I don't know a ton about this either, just that it's currently available and they can see the last 6 months of statements. Do you have any thoughts about this?

I think having the statement available is fine, but like I mention before - it's literally just a hard copy of that statement. I don't know that there's a lot of functionality other than being able to view it. Yeah it says 'click here for [pay.gov](http://pay.gov/)' but all it does it lead them to [pay.gov](http://pay.gov/) and they'll still have to put in their account information, name, and obviously pay information wouldn't be populated. There has to be a way for us to send that information over when they click that link.

M: And that would be specific to one statement? Can you pay one statement at a time?

No, if you had a statement that had prior charges on it, I'd say you'd want to pay the most recent statement. I think when we were looking to the right there, that's the Financial Status. Any time we do waiver, repayment plan, that's what we're using

M: A repayment plan?

Yeah. A lot of times if it's a payment plan, we're just sayin you have $300 bill but you can pay $25 a month so we set them up to pay it off. It's very common. A lot of times they'll ask for a waiver and if the data below says they've got residual income then that's what we base the waiver on. Let's say their debt is $100 and they have a monthly net income less expenses of $100 then we wouldn't waive it. We may set up a payment plan, but we wouldn't waive it.

M: We found this online and this seems like the VHA way of setting up payment plans (showing 1100)

It's kind of both. We'd accept this, but we'd still need the 5655 to see... I look at the role as kind of two fold. We want to make sure we're taking care of the Veteran but we also want to make sure the government is getting the best value for the situation. When we look at a waiver or repayment plan, it's dependent on their income.

They've talked about VA Form 1100, if you go by policy that may be the only required document but the problem is without seeing the 5655 we have a hard time saying we can accept that. I've actually turned down repayment plans when a person's net income is much larger than what they owe. Because it doesn't make sense to me. I know DMC does it a little differently by putting them on an automatic repayment plan, but for us it's subjective or a reasonableness test so to speak as we're approaching these.

M: Most copays are pretty reasonable for the most part?

Regular care if $15 copayment. If it's specialty care then it's a $50 copayment. In patient stays are more and certain things are a little more. Prescriptions vary by the drug tier, but they're typically anywhere from $5-11 now depending on the tier. There are some drugs that are $0 copays. But yeah so it all varies. It's not, I think the copay is not huge and something that folks don't always know is as I've said before is we do third party billing for insurance so if a person has Blue Cross Blue Shield for instance and we're able to collect at least the amount of the copay then we offset the copay by $15 from that insurance.

M: So this form was kind of a surprise to us. It's interesting because VBA doesn't have concept of this form - they have 5655\. Do you get feedback on this form?

I don't know that it requires the 1100\. It is a way for us to basically go through the agreement for them to pay back the debt. I'm gonna have to look in policy to see if that's actually required.

M: It feels aggressive to me

It is, I'm personally not a fan of this form just because it's basically saying, "This is what I agree to pay" and it's not necessarily good on either side of the equation. It's not good for the Veteran and it's not good for us because it doesn't give me enough information to know  whether or not the payment plan is good for them. The part b there where it says repayment will be through payroll deduction - barely anyone does it.

M: Yeah we learned yesterday that they have to set that up with their employer unless they work with VA. So sometimes they don't submit this but write on the FSR?

Right, or they send a letter saying, "Hey, I fell on hard times and I want to request a waiver" so then we provide the 5655\.

M: And it's okay to just send a document requesting a waiver?

Yes, as long as they send the supporting documents

M: What's the supporting document?

The 5655\.

M: Where are the debts kept with their statuses and where they are in the lifecycle of the debt?

The information would be kept in VISTA. The statement is a snapshot in time, but the live data would be in VISTA. And Cerner when they come online. They're supposed to go live with their first statement in April. But right now they don't have a first party side to their system.

M: So that would replace the triggers being set off in VISTA and sending a letter to the Veteran?

Right, so in essence it will mirror what VISTA is doing currently but when we go live in Columbus there would be two statements: one from the legacy system (VISTA) and one from Cerner.

M: The same statement?

Yup, the format would be the same.

M: What was the goal with Cerner?

So, VA is moving away from VISTA as a legacy system that has been in place since the early 70s and moving to an electronic health record system that - right now there's roughly 150 VA medical centers across the nation, there's 150 different VISTA systems across the nation. When we do the billing, those VISTA systems all feed down to Austin and they're scheduled so it's not one massive dump, but all that data is compiled through the main frame to create the statements. There's about 2 million statements sent out each month. So if we could make this electronic it would save headache and hassle.

M: We're going to assume we're pulling from VISTA, can you describe what that back system workflow is for how a debt moves through? We know of codes 'Letter 1, Letter 2, Letter 3'. Are there hold codes?

The only time we would hold a first party statement is if they have insurance. We'll hold it for 90 days. Once that 90 day hold is done, we sent that first letter. If they don't have insurance then it's sent out right away. If it's non service-connected it'll go right through but if it's service-connected it'll go through one of our nurses. If it happens to be mislabeled as service-connected we reroute it back to be billed out. Then it gets flowed down to AITC (Austin) and sent out to the printing folks.

M: What about fraud?

What type of fraud are you looking at? I don't know that there's a way to build and encounter without the doctor signing off the notes. Once the encounter happens and the doctor signs off, that generates the first step. I don't know where there'd be fraud in the system. I know you hear about fraud in outside providers as far as outside VA, healthcare providers fraudulently billing insurance provider. There has been some of that with the community care providers - there was a settlement recently over that. But it typically doesn't happen within the VA. There's different separation of duties as far as steps go. Someone who creates the bill can't receive the payment.

M: What about when a Veteran gets their first statement and it's too much, does the timer keep ticking?

Yes. If they send it in. Once we receive the 5655, we suspend the debt. Typically for a standard waiver we turn those around in 24 hours. It isn't a long hold time at all. So, there might be depending on the dollar threshold a couple steps to review. Besides from that, waivers are done pretty quick.

M: So the suspension, is that a code within VISTA you can see?

Yes

M: Are there a bunch?

Not a lot. We work in VISTA but also have a production center and that lets us know productivity-wise what folks have been working on and things of that nature. We have work lists in there.

M: I wanted to show you the reason why I'm asking. (shows UXPin prototype) We have a concept of a status - it could say on hold and we give a next step. We want to see how similar this is to VBA so we can inform the Veteran based on the status it's in. We'll probably be looking for a list of all the codes this debt can go into and then working with the group to write the next statuses

Are you working with real-time data?

M: Ideally we'd be working with real-time data. What do you think?

Right now we have 150 different systems you'd have to tie into. Once Cerner goes online it'll be easier because it's one system. Right now where you're getting the information from is the statement itself and the repository of statements. In a perfect world it would be real-time data. But I don't know that you'll have access to that right off the bat.

If there was a possibility to get real-time data i don't think there would be a huge weight for waiver or repayment plans. They get reviewed in 24 hours.

M: Do you ever have stuff sent to COWC?

Yeah, anything that has a principle balance over $1000 I don't have the authority to approve for a compromise.

M: That could take a minute, right?

Right, and during that time we do have it suspended. So that is a good point.

M: Do you think there are any particularly sticky parts of VA debt collection to focus on as we're designing?

We've kind of suspended the referral to treasury since April of last year, but I think that's probably a sticky part for us. Once we've referred that item to treasury then they can no longer work with us to pay the bill. They could have bills with Treasury and bills that are still with us. We're tied to what we can do once it's referred to treasury.

M: Pre-COVID, how many people were referred to treasury?

It happens more frequently than I like. Once they get their third statement and haven't made payments, after 120 days it gets referred.

M: DMC?

The DMC is in that. Let's say they got a pension or something from VA, it'll go to DMC to offset. But if they don't have any of that then it'll go to treasury for collection.

M: So it passes through DMC.

Yup

M: Do you think there's anything we can do better to prevent Veterans from going to treasury?

I think just being very clear - my analogy with the credit card statement is no one's reading the back of the statement. Once it's referred to treasury they're made aware that they have to pay the debt and then Veterans panic. I think the clear communication that if you're not paying your bill within 120 days it gets referred to treasury - we need to be clear about that fact. When things are under normal circumstance that's what happens. They don't know we'll offset their social security payment or tax return.

M: Is there anything else you want to know or priorities while we're designing?

I think the conversation today was really good and I'm excited to see this move forward and progress. I want to say there's a majority of Veterans out there that are tech-savvy enough to get this. I hear that we've got an older generation who don't get this but I've seen Veterans in their 60s and 70s who get the technology piece. Anything we can do to make it better for Veterans is ideal.

L: I just wanted to ask if you are the right person to have data around how much of the debt was written off pre-covid?

When you say written off, are you talking about waivers and things of that nature?

L: Both. I'm interested to see a number, amount, or both of things that are referred to treasury ultimately or enter one of the resolution paths. Ultimately what we want to do is not have any Veterans referred to treasury period but we want to move the needle by making this online.

Yeah I can make some inquiries and get the information from my specific CPAC but inquire with others to get collective data.

L: Ultimately for the Veterans referred to treasury, do you track how many could have got a waiver or compromise and they didn't because they never applied for one?

I mean, everyone is able to apply to them

L: But how many don't because of the form?

That would be very speculative. I'd have a hard time giving a number i'm comfortable with for that. Some folks don't care but others thinking it's too complex - it's too hard to measure that. Being speculative would be a challenge.
