# VAHRC Representative Interview Conversation Guide
Session 6 | 03.04.2021

Key takeaways
-------

* About her:
  * Contact management for Support Services at HRC, manages 20 on the Help Desk and First Party teams
* First Party team:
  - All about billing and payment problems like:
    - Being billed erroneously
    - Insurance not being billed
    - Not wanting to or being unable to pay
    - Not knowing how to pay
    - Missing bills or how to read bills
  - Had 868k calls in FY2020
  - Calls to pay a bill via pay.gov can take less than 5 minutes, other inquiries can take up to 12 if they need more research.
  - No IRIS or email
* Help desk team:
  - Answers calls and supports Veterans with technical issues like being unable to access systems.
  - Cannot answer billing questions
  - Had 310k calls in FY2020
  - Has IRIS and help cha 
  - 150 CRs
* HRC
  - VA sent out a letter informing Veterans of their balance late 2020 and they got a huge influx of calls about the “bills”
  - Normally, they’re very busy around tax season, and they’re super open instead.
  - The relationship between HRC and CPACs is positive; HRC refers healthcare-service problems to CPACs
  - HRC leads have great contacts with Treasury, Third Party insurers, and VA leaders
  - HRC never transfers Veterans, but HRC receives transfers
  - Sometimes HRC does callbacks to Veterans if there is additional research to be done
  - Sometimes HRC is able to bull back referrals from Treasury if there is good reason
  - All HRC call reps are trained in their respective department for 4 weeks in eligibility, first party, third party insurance billing, pharmacy issues, etc.
  - Training, SOP, business process, etc are located in CAMs
  - Many veterans may not have computers or internet due to age or financial situation
- Statements
  - Statements can be accessed through MyHealtheVet
  - There have been several Statement redesign attempts, the current one is trying to add more stuff to the back of the statement, but that will be too much for Veterans.
  - No big problems with the statements themselves
  - It will be great that the Veteran can't lose the statement
- Form 1100:
  - A promise to make a payment every month
- Form 5655:
  - Used for waivers and writeoffs, not repayment plans




Transcript
-------

How would you describe your role?

* I work in contact management support services, supporting two business lines. First party and help desk. I have a staff of 20 that serve as leads in both business lines. On top of my role as a supervisor, I do other projects for both business lines.

Can you tell me about what services those

* Support services - we lead support for both departments. We're a liaison for director's office. We support new projects and systems. We're the middle person for that. Any new documents. SOPs. We work with [pay.gov](http://pay.gov/), lockbox, DMC, cross-servicing... there are only 2 people in support services, not including leads.

What's the difference between help desk and

* HD is a business line that answers calls and support veterans calls have issues with different technical applications. First party is all about billing and making payments. HD has 130 contact reps. First party has 300-400 contact reps.

How many veterans are typically assisted for first party?

* First party - 868,0000 in FY2020
* HD - 310,000 calls in FY2020
* Recently with COVID, it's been a little bit different due to the fact that we haven't been billing, so calls have been down. COVID has been challenging for us, depending on what the CPACs and VA decides. Any move they make definitely puts an impact on our call center. Same thing for HD, if they roll out an initiative or app, it impacts us. They sent out letters at the end of last year notifying people of their bill, but it wasn't a bill, so we got a huge influx of calls because it wasn't

How does that compare to the usual amount of calls?

* The same or more, we'd be really slammed right now because of tax season. No calls in queue and 80 people in ready. People call about payment histories, wanting to pay off their bills, etc. We're beyond slow right now.

What are some reasons veterans typically call?

* For first party, it's all billing. Billed erroneously, their third party not billed. Some don't know how to pay or don't want to. Some call because we're the only one that they know. We transfer people occasionally. Sometimes questions about when to get the bill or how to read it. Sometimes it's about something that's going on like the vendor not sending the bill out on time. They call the VA/CPAC/Agent Cashier.

Tell me more about how the HRC interacts with the CPACs

* We send referrals if they identify and triage and see an issue with something being billed directly. We have templates, it's pretty cut and dry. If it ages 30 days, it gets back to us, we escalate it. They have a 4 day turnaround and leads track them. If they don't have a resolution, they ... the CPACs by that point will normally close the dynamic, request, or respond. They then send it to the supervisors and higher ups at the CPAC, saying that it's at 40 days or whatever. We have a really great relationship with the CPACs; we meet with the CPACs and management. We keep lines of communication open. If they see a trend, they'll come to us. We have relationships with third parties, treasury...

Do you transfer them?

We never transfer Veterans at any level. If anything gets transferred to us, they go directly to a contact rep. We'll call them and tell them the situation and help them that way.

If you do call out, do you call the Veteran back?

* It depends on if my lead is the one corresponding with the veteran and asks for assistance, we'll give them the information and they'll call the Veteran back.
* Sometimes I've had to take over a call, and if I'm already in communication with the veteran, then I would do it.

You mentioned if the Veteran is turned over to collection, then they'll let you know.

* It's case by case, they have to research it pretty well. Every story, veteran, situation is different. I have a seasoned staff (10+ years), so they know how it goes. If it was truly something that shouldn't go to collection, they'll triage it. We have access to the treasury system.
* We can reach out to PoC at cross servicing to pull back debts - if something gets lost in mail, or something shouldn't have ever gone to collection
* We can't offset if a person is service connected, so we have to have an internal process in case something is messed up.
* Christina is very... that's her skillset, she's the one who does it more than I do.

Do you only receive calls about copayments, or other reasons too?

* Sometimes they call about medical... you can get anything and everything. They could be calling about office of community care visits, complaining about their VA, they need resolution, etc. Copays are our main business line.

Are call center reps specialized?

* Every contact rep is trained exactly the same, only diff is contact reps vs lead.

What is the training?

* 4 week training, eligibility, first party training, third party insurance billing, pharmacy related inquiries, it's intense. They have 2-3 weeks OJT where they listen to live calls.

Is there documentation related to training?

* We have a CAMS system, which is a huge web based database. It's almost like the VA HRC's google. That's where business process, SOPs, etc, are. If someone calls about insurance payment, they go to the CAMS site and look up what they need to do.

Could we access that?

* Idk if you can have access to it unless you're in the VA system.

It seems to vary, but how long do calls tend to last.

* Depends ... um... if they're taking payments, [pay.gov](http://pay.gov/) payments take about... probably under 5 minutes.
* If they call the first party line, it could be anywhere from 5 to 12 minutes. Sometimes they need to do a lot of research.

How many calls about [pay.gov](http://pay.gov/) do you think you get?

* 300,000 last year. For making payments or assistance. They could also be asking questions.
* In the future, we'll record the calls and silence credit card information.

Do you have thoughts about why you're getting calls about making payments?

* Think about our demographic of veterans, we have a lot of older veterans. We also have a lot of older or low income veterans who do not have computers, phones, or internet.
* Some people just like to have that human connection. Some people hate that technology is taking over the world.

Are there other methods veterans reach out for help?

* First party does not have  IRIS or email
* HD has IRIS and help chat
  * MHV, ebenefits, mobile app
* Contact reps do not intertwine, trained totally differently. HD is assisting third party applications and websites when veterans can't log in.

Do some veterans call the help desk?

* If they do, they get transferred to first party business line. HD can't answer billing questions.

MHV starts displaying statements?

* Yeah. It's where veterans can go in and look at appointments or doctor's notes. Now they'll be able to look at their billing statement. However, we haven't been billing since last year.

Are you familiar with AccessVA?

* Yeah maybe it's AccessVA. There aren't any statements to view, because we don't have any

Do you have any thoughts about the statements themselves?

* I've been on two projects for statement redesign, and they're currently doing another one. The new one they're trying to do to add all of the stuff on the back of the statement... it's too much. Sometimes too much information is too much information, and we confuse them more than help. I've seen some redesigns with color, which costs money and some veterans don't like all of that - they're colorblind or can't see it. They want the fonts all big, but you're adding more paper, which costs money. If certain veterans want bigger font, we can request it for them individually. That's big VA's decision. Every decision that is made trickles down to us, so we just need to be prepared.

What are some things that veterans have expressed challenges with the statements?

* Nothing right now. Normally my staff are the ones who will hear from the CRs first. We identify trend issues first.

What sort of problems or issues do you hope to solve by bringing copayments onto [VA.gov](http://va.gov/)

* It's not going to stop the questions on their billing statements. I guess the benefit of that is for the veteran, which is great. The only benefit I see for us, if the Veteran technically can't lose it. My staff has to manually print those out. I only have 4 or 5 leads who work on site. They manage 600 manual prints a week with just 5 of them. If their hard copy is late, it should still be online. That would produce a phone call for awhile still.

AccessVA: does this look familiar?

* I've seen demos. HD gets calls about this.

Do you know of any challenges that folks experience when using this tool?

* Not necessarily no, when they call for HD, it would be to get into AccessVA. If they have billing questions or missing, that would be a first party. HD would help them get into AccessVA, but not with anything after that.

5655: Can you walk me through the difference?

* The 1100 form is asking the VA for a repayment plan. You're promising to make a payment every month.
* The 5655 is to ask for your veteran to waive the bill. They have to fill out and prove their case.
* 5655 is only used for waiver, not for repayment plan.

Do you ever get questions about the 1100?

* Sometimes, but if HRC mails out the 1100, they give the veteran instructions on what needs to happen. They know what they're supposed to do before they mail it out to them. Sometimes they forget and will call and ask.

Do veterans fill this out on their own?

* Not really, sometimes we'll give them the form number for the site so they can do it immediately.
