VAHRC Representative Interview
----- 

Christina Andrews | March 5, 2021

Key takeaways
-----

* Role: program specialist in the HRC
  * Works with [Pay.gov](http://pay.gov/), cross-servicing, and DMC
* If a Veteran is referred to DMC and has benefits to offset, the Veteran may contact HRC to set up a plan to get a certain amount taken out instead of their entire check
  * Example: If Veteran owes $1000 but receives $600 benefits, DMC would take the entire check
  * Veteran doesn't need to complete 5655 to set this up; can be set up over the phone
    * HRC will send a request to DMC
* Some Veterans input the incorrect account number into [Pay.gov](http://pay.gov/) and that can cause payments being sent to different accounts
* If the Veteran is service-connected, call center reps will suggest setting up for their benefits to be offset so they don't need to worry about making payments
* Waivers used to be required within 180 days and write-offs for after 180 days, but due to COVID they're one in the same now
* There was a project to try to consolidate statements for Veterans who go to multiple medical facilities, but Cerner said it was impossible
* Veterans don't appreciate having to resubmit VA Form 1100 every 90 days for new bills
* Northeast CPAC was running a pilot where they would scan a Veteran's account that was on a payment plan and automatically add new bills/charges to the payment plan
* Is going to try to connect us with HRC contact center reps

Transcript 
----- 

M: Can you tell me about your role?

I'm a program specialist. My department is support services and we support in the health resource center. Within that I am the [pay.gov](http://pay.gov/) go-to person, cross-servicing go-to person, DMC go-to person, I get accesses for people, managing those things, so any special project someone gets put on Nikki and I are the first ones to make sure they aren't missing anything. I do knowledge-based articles, trainings, power points, present at meetings, basically everything within the [Pay.gov](http://pay.gov/) realm. I do all the misapplied and reapplied payment research, work with CPAC to transfer money from one to the other, identify problems, possible coaching, I've been here 16 years so I have many contacts and a big network. If anything needs to be fixed they reach out to me because if I don't know then I know someone who does. Nikki and I are both that way. We can handle anything you bring to us ourselves or with a point of contact.

M: You touched on being well-connected to the DMC. We'd like to know how you interact

If the Veteran is referred to the DMC they can call us so instead of DMC taking their whole check they can come to us to take $25, $50, whatever they want. If something goes wrong with that the leads will reach out to me. That doesn't happen a lot, DMC Is pretty efficient in how they do their stuff and we don't have issues with them. WE've been collaborating with them for quite a. long time so it's pretty seamless.

M: We know after the 120 days they get referred over to DMC. At that point they'll contact you?

No, we know it's referred to DMC because we go to VISTA full account and there's a note that it was referred to DMC that day. It's good for service-connected Veterans because they don't have to write checks or anything, they can just say they pay $50 a month and the agent goes into VISTA and the next cycle - well now you know everything's on hold. That's what we would do. You have to divide it if it's a huge amount and we'll tell them what the minimum amount could be.

M: Veterans are calling because they have a letter that DMC Is going t offset them, you will work with them to fill out the form to set up the repayment plan?

That's different than a lesser DMC. They'll take whatever amount they're approved for right out of their check.  The agent they call will go through and set it up. It's so much easier if they have a check they get and they're referred to DMC; if they owe $1000 and they only get $600 they'll take the entire check.

M: That option for offset, that's only available once they're referred to DMC once they've gotten the three letters?

Right. They can't do it until they're referred first.

M: Do they request for that?

Well, some of the time they call after they've taken their first full check. They've probably ignored the first letter. IF you get the first letter and your don't respond then they'll take the whole check.

M: You set it up in VISTA?

We send in a request for that, we don't have anything to do with the actual offset. They go set it up on their end.

M: Do they have to fill out the 5655?

No, we don't send them by phone. We send them through VISTA. They'll get it set up once the agent approves it. I used to work with a person over there. It's hard for them to budget when they don't know if they're taking the $50 or the whole thing. Yeah we don't have any options to do any of the offsets.

M: Prior to those offsets, they can set up a payment plan with VHA but it won't be with offsets?

Yup, with the 1100\. It's just easier not to if you have that benefit. I don't know about you but I don't write many checks.

M: Do you work with Veterans directly?

Sometimes yes, it depends. The veteran could be using [Pay.gov](http://pay.gov/) to make their own payments and they accidentally put it on the wrong account and so we have to move it due to them entering the wrong account number. When you go to [Pay.gov](http://pay.gov/) you need to ensure you're putting in this number directly. If the account doesn't exist, it'll go to the Lockbox's expense account. If they can't figure out where the payment goes they'll send it to me and I'll give them the account so it won't turn into unapplied or misapplied payment. But if they run the coupon through and that account is valid, they'll put it on the account. Sometimes it even stays long enough for them to refund the money to the incorrect Veteran. So they have to get the money back from the incorrect Veteran and transfer it back. There's a lot of people that touch it from start to finish. [Pay.gov](http://pay.gov/) doesn't connect with our system to verify that account. They'll take it.

M: What kinds of calls are CRs fielding?

They run the gamut. I was sent to a doctor in the community and now I'm billed, change address, change primary care clinic, what's my balance, did my payment post, where's my refund, can i have a refund, I mean wow, all kinds of stuff. They get letters from treasury that tells them they're about to be offset so if it's cross-servicing it's a new ballgame because we send them to the cross-servicing call center. Anywhere from I need my doctor's phone number, I need transfer to eligibility, I want to enroll, you name it we probably get it.

M: You don't talk about cross-servicing, is there anything else you're not able to discuss?

If we have to send something to CPAC that's done through our system. Maybe they want an audit on their account, so we send that to CPAC so someone can audit the account and decrease charges or refund on things that should have been free.

M: Any constraints?

We have adherence to schedule, handle time, wrap-up time, all kinds of normal call center stuff. If that's the kind of constraint? Maybe things we shouldn't discuss, sensitive diagnoses, clinical things they're not allowed to discuss, HIV or recovery for alcoholism,

M: We might have more questions about stats and stuff later. I'd like to know more about the Veterans themselves. What problems do they experience most often?

Didn't get a bill, got a bill and don't understand it, got a bill and I wasn't supposed to get one, didn't get medication (calls a lot about that), made a payment but I don't see it on here, doesn't know how to read the bill because our bills are hard to understand, I know they're working on that and some of the mockups look good but are a little busy but there's a lot of stuff to tell them like their rights and debt relief - it's a lot to tell them.

M:  Can you tell me what types of financial assistance veterans most often request

Repayment plans, waivers, sometimes they'll see compromise and ask for that, a lot of times our agent would say it's easier to do a lesser if they see they're service-connected instead of a payment plan. Just give them all the options and then they'd send all the forms, even explain the forms if they're gonna do a write-off or waiver. We'll say write a country story, ya know the wife left the dog died, a full picture of the situation. And if they don't approve the waiver or write-off, their policy is to send a payment plan and suggested payment. That's the full circle. They call us, we show them the option, they choose one, we send the form, they fill it out and fill it in, and the CPAC processes it.

M: You were talking about 'tell your full story'. Do you recommend in addition or instead?

I think it's 4138, it's a statement you write in your own words. It's just an extra page pretty much for you to say if you, you know had cancer, lost your job after chemo, whatever it is. The more information they know the better idea they will have to submit a waiver or not. It's strictly voluntary. I think there's another one but I can't remember what it was called. You can use any scrap of paper, back of an envelope, whatever it is so they have a clear picture of the financial situation.

M: That's only for write-offs and waivers? (5655)

It used to not even be for write-offs, but now they're considering 180 days or older as well. CPACS are loosening up a little bit and trying to help the veteran. If you have 180 days or newer and you apply for a waiver they'll take that off. In the past they wouldn't take off anything older but now they're starting to take a look at that older debt. i know waiver and write-off are more the same now, I don't know if that'll go back to the way it was before after COVID.

M: Prior to COVID, the difference between a write-off and waiver is just timing? They both reduce the amount to 0?

180 days and sooner for waiver, 180 days and above for write-off.

M: What sort of impact do you think providing access to this online will have?

I think it'll be a good thing for computer-savvy veterans. We don't necessarily have a ton of veterans who, you know they may not have internet, they're afraid of computers and technology, they're older, we've heard that so much. A lo twill say they don't have a computer. I used to think it was all age but now I don't think it is. They may not be able to afford internet, they're afraid of computers, etc. But the ones who have it love it because they don't have to call, wait in a queue, they can do it at 2 in the morning. I love it. But my dad is a veteran and he would probably have a fit. He won't even do his taxes online - he does them with a pencil.

M: You've seen this before?

I've seen this before. I've tested them.

M: Tell me more

UAT testing so, whenever they were getting it going we had fake information and a test site and we would help them. Now I think we're using our employees, like real veterans with accounts, we give them names and they help them when we test.

M: Do you have any thoughts about this current solution?

You can get to it through My HealtheVet

M: Is this what they see?

It's not on My HealtheVet but they redirect to this. Somewhere it has a button or a link but I think you can go from there to here. There's another one... I think there's three different ways to get there.

M: Do you have thoughts about functionality or solving problems?

I think when it works it solves the veteran's problems. Once they see the statements. they're still gonna want to call us because it's the statements they have questions about. You can list literature there explaining but people don't want to read it

M: What are people not getting with the statements?

Bill number, like I said when they post a payment, the only way you'll know the payment the bill was posted to is going back. I think that's the biggest complaint. People who say, "I was an accountant and I cannot understand this"

M: Are we talking about when they go through [Pay.gov](http://pay.gov/) and they need to put in a bill number for a specific thing?

[Pay.gov](http://pay.gov/) is just a place for you to make a payment. You have to take your account number over there and put it in the form. It's sort of a third party where they can get a form, fill it out, and make a payment

M: So Veterans are trying to match the payment they made to the specific services they're paying for?

Yeah they'll usually ask what this payment applies to, I already paid this, yeah. You have to go through this bill number - it's the K number. That K number is applied when that charge is applied on the bill. When they put a payment on the bill they'll split it - if you have $100 bill and you pay $10 each then you'll have a payment that matches that bill number. I can see why they're upset.

M: These bill numbers are specific to a statement or service?

Charge. If you get a prescription, you'll get a bill number. So if you've gotten 3 or 4 prescriptions they might be on the same bill number.

M: In the scenario where in January I went and got $50 and in February I don't pay and I get another copay for $50, on the following month they get the statement with those two months things on it?

It only shows up once. You don't repeat it until you pay for it. That's why it's confusing. Sometimes you won't see it until April.

M: Can you visualize how you would change it?

Not really because of the way they do it. They have a benefit to the Veteran to hold it. If your insurance pays $15 or $50 then you'll never see a payment. After 90 days you'll get the bill. The only time you'll see a charge is if your insurance didn't pay or they didn't pay enough to see a charge.

M: Do you have any other thoughts? This thing shows 6 months worth of statements - do you have thoughts about the 6 month limit?

There's a storage issue and an ownership issue. We were talking about a consolidated statement project to get veterans who go to multiple facilities could get one bill. Cerner won't talk to them. They said it was pointless to carry the project further because it wouldn't work. People who have reduced rent or people who use medical exemptions on their taxes they always call us at the beginning of the year to get a payment history. We were going to send that automatically but all of that got put away after we decided we couldn't do all of that. 

M: If they weren't combined, couldn't they get a bunch of charges from each facility?

It looked nice, it had a block for each facility. They could only put the primary or main VA facility. You might have been trying to pay Los Angeles or Denver but it all goes to one location because of that account number. Then Lockbox was going to break it apart and apply it to different bills.

M: Are there plans to pick it back up once the transition to Cerner is complete?

I don't know. But I know there is a project out there to make it more user friendly

M: Do you know who's in charge.

I think Jerry Battles would know - there's a ton of CPAC people on that project

M: We know of these two lovely forms, we have a lot of questions about them. Specifically the 1100\. Do you have thoughts of this form?

Like why the deduction is there because they can't use it? They fill it out and think they can do some kind of deduction. They should take it off.  I'm sure they tried to save something to do it all together but unless you can recognize payroll deduction you won't know. I'm not sure they can use the number 2 one, I've never seen it out. You can't really have anything less than $25\. Minimum is $25 and if the balance is huge we have to divide it by 36 months and that's the minimum.

M: Do you get feedback on this form rom veterans themselves?

They would ask what the VA file number, payee number, those things don't really make sense to them. Then they'd have to know their balance - it's a little confusing.

M: Do you think this form is necessary?

That's more of a CPAC question. We send it blank and then they send it to CPAC.

M: But the call center helps them fill it out?

Usually with us they ask what their options are and if they can make a payment plan we'll send it to them. If they happen to get it and they have questions then they'll call us, but usually not.

M: If someone asks for an extended payment plan - you just send them to 1100, not 5655?

Only for waivers. For repayment plans if you default then certain CPACs won't let you be on a repayment plan anymore. The repayment plan only covers the bills at the moment. We recommend people do the form every 90 days (1100). I tell them to make copies and submit it every 90 days if they get more bills.

M: Do you get feedback?

Yes, they don't appreciate it. We had someone call and ask if they could get 10 copies because they couldn't get copies. But we can't do that. I know northeast CPAC had a pilot or something where they run a report that gets all veterans on a repayment plan and recognizes if they have new charges and puts them on a repayment plan. I think that's just the northeast CPAC for now unless they've changed that.

M: Do you know how we'd talk to?

Mari-beth Nye. She's amazing! She'd be happy to help you.

M: Is there anything else you think we should know as we're making this tool?

I guess I'm not really familiar with the extent of this - will this show the statement or are you also going to offer a way to click on 'how do i do debt relief' or a button that pulls up the repayment plan

M: We're dreaming big

That would be awesome! But you're also going to have to have all the words with it (the forms) to go along with it. I'm sure CPAC has seen a lot of forms that are filled out correctly. If you send your waiver packet in and it's missing things or isn't signed then they'll send it back to you.

M: Is it the same exact form with physical tags?

I think so. We try to educate the agents to give them as much information as possible - you can't just say you don't make any money. Social Security counts, wife's income counts. We run it through income verification so we're gonna know anyway.

M: Any areas on the 5655 they aren't getting?

They get it, they just don't want to provide the information.

M: Thoughts on the portal?

Yeah if you're listing the debts and if we're able to list that the debts are upcoming to collection. Would be nice to put it in red, I know it's probably not 508 compliant, but it would be nice to make it stand out more. For all our tech-savvy folks they'll really like it because they won't have to call us again. It would actually be kind of cool if you could incorporate [pay.gov](http://pay.gov/) there and cross-servicing has their own screens so inside their documentation system they can make a [pay.gov](http://pay.gov/) payment and the boxes come up. It's 'click here' and the boxes you'd see would show up after that.

M: It would already be pre-filled?

Yeah. It brings up the boxes you'd fill out and in the background it would populate it. You just hit submit and it's done. Our folks are allowed to hit and paste everything so you don't see errors. We also have a receipt or confirmation number in dynamic. We have a private form the regular veteran doesn't see - but we have to bring up this form and fill out these things. It was fast and cool, and it might make it easier for the veteran. Then they wouldn't get lost in those bogus [pay.gov](http://pay.gov/) sites. There's a website that's different than [pay.gov](http://pay.gov/) and it'll charge a percentage.
