# VAHRC Representative Interview Conversation Guide
Session 7 | 03.05.2021

Key takeaways
-------


Transcript
-------

* **How would you describe your role?**
  * My role is to bring people into more like-minded mindsets so we can standardize stuff. Not only do I serve as a developer SME of policy and procedure, but also a shepherd to bring people to similar conclusions.
* **So by getting people into similar mindsets, are you talking about HRC/CPAC?**
  * No, just that different CPACs may apply different interpretations to the policy?
  * The project here started under the banner of "VA Debt Letters" project, right? So, with that said, what are you trying to accomplish now? As I understood it, the goal was that, because there's such a significant difference in the type of billing that may occur from the National Cemetery Administration, to VBA, to VHA, that a single bill from VA consolidated for all of the VA was not really something that was very logical at this point in time. The focus of this initiative was moving towards making existing information accessible to veterans via the web to supplement the printed statements that we currently mail.
  * Statements are available online now, to a certain degree. To enhance, that's something that we'd want to make more accessible. Another improvement could be more statements than the current 6 month limit available online. Either or both of those are something that would have to be pursued by HRC not so much in revenue ops. We don't really play a role in the availability of statements online. We don't decide what's there, how they get to it... that's owned by HRC. I'm all for making a whole year or 18 months of statements available. I can't really help you in making that happen, because that's not a function in revenue operations.
* **Regarding year or 18-months availability, where is that number coming from?**
  * That's just a number I snatched out of the air as an improvement over the last 6 months.
* **Do you think Veterans want more statements?**
  * I don't know. I know that I would, like when thinking about my CC bill that's accessible online, I want more than 6 months available to me. I want 2 years for CC bills or mortgage statement.
  * I know that more data in greater depth of history is most likely desirable based on my own personal experience.

* **Let's talk about the flow**
  * The flow is not really accurate. Before a lot of effort goes into making it accurate for a billing workflow, I think the need for that needs to be determined in the scope of your project. The scope of the project doesn't need to depict the billing flow of the VA. This project doesn't need to worry about this stuff. What's critical to the Veteran is whether or not they're copay required. That's not something they become aware of through the VPS. They know if they have an obligation or insurance or not. There's a lot that the Veterans are aware of.
  * Let me start from the point when a Veteran receives a service...
    * If a Veteran receives care and that Veteran is copayment required and the service that they received is not exempted for one of several reasons, then, simultaneously, a third party claim is created and a first party copayment charge is created.
    * Once that happens, in the case of billable insurance, the first party charges are put on hold for up to 90 days to allow payment to be received from OHI (Other health insurance)
    * If we receive a OHI payment before the 90 days expires, then the amount of that money received from OHI can be used to offset the amount that the veteran is responsible for in the copayment.
    * Going back to the start, when there is no OHI, the pathway is that the first party charge is created (copay is always first party)
    * Both pathways will converge to the point where ... if we receive copayment, then the amount is reduced, up to the amount of the copay. Both of those converge when the next patient statement occurs.
    * After pathway 1 is resolved or 90 days comes, it's time to mail a statement to the patient.
    * Once a statement is sent out, it becomes a debt.
    * Whether or not OHI this or that, you don't need to worry about it.
    * One of the statutes... 3711(?).... basically it says that a debt accrues to a debtor upon the notification of that debt to the debtor. So basically a debt doesn't really exist until you notify the person that they owe the money. That's when the debt becomes debt. That also is not really Veteran facing, we just use it as guidelines in our debt management. Once that statement goes to the veteran, it is now available to the HRC to place on their website for the veteran to go through MHV to see it.
    * That first statement includes details about the copay type (inpatient, outpatient, medication, etc.) That info will not be included on subsequent statements, of which there are three. Only the first statement includes the detail. The second statement is just balance forward or new activity, and amount payable.
* **So they can access the statements through MHV now or is it AccessVA?**
  * As I understood it, yes. Someone who's a POC at the HRC can tell you the exact pathway or link to be able to do that.
  * The VA sends a consolidated patient statement for all encounters are all included on one consolidated statement. For someone who receives care in sequential months on any one patient statement, they may have a balance could represent the first, second, or third encounters, in that balance. An example of that would be... the scenario where I have a Veteran with one episode of specialty care ($50), the first statement they get, it will show balance forward:0, detail will detail the service/date/amount due, and in the summary, it will show total amount due: $50\. New activity is generally considered to include, for the purposes of an existing copayment, any action that changes the payable status of that amount due.
  * If after statement 1, if someone wants to dispute a bill and say they don't owe it, then I put that bill into a suspended status while I do research, and the statement cycle comes around during that research. The fact that I suspended the bill qualifies as new activity. It would show bill suspended, beginning balance would be $50\. Ending balance would be $0 due to suspension.
  * I don't really know off the top of my head the actions that qualify as new activity, but a payment is not one of them. If a bill is fully or partially paid, for the purposes of statement activity, that doesn't qualify.
  * If we received $20 toward the $50 payment, the second statement would show opening $50 and an amount due of $30\.
  * Month 2: New copayment visit and I never paid month 1's amount. The second statement will have beginning balance of $50, a new activity of $50, and an ending balance of $100\.
  * We represent the amount due for any one encounter in three statements. A veteran who has encounters every month will get 12 a year from a single facility.
  * After the 120 days (third letter),
  * It's not always easy for a Veteran to get a direct reconciliation between what they see detailed in the statement vs the amount payable on the statement. We don't show the detail each and every statement.
* **How do you feel about those not being shown in every statement?**
  * I think that... well, let's not get into scope creep. If the initiative that you're working on is to make what we have more accessible to the Veterans, then what I feel doesn't apply...
  * If the initiative includes creating drivers to change what we show to the Veteran, then it could be included, and my personal feeling is that if for any statement that I send a Veteran, I should be able to reconcile in the detail of the statement, the amount that you're asking me to pay.
  * What that might entail could be minor changes in how we do our statements.
  * Currently, if I'm getting my third statement, and all it has is a $1000 balance forward... nothing tells me what it's for. We notified them previously what it's for, but it doesn't make it easier for them.
  * There's a lot of concurrent activity going on, separate but concurrent... overall statement redesign project. So... it might be preferable to not have similar parallel projects working that could be combined for improved efficiency and to keep people from working duplicative or stepping on each others' toes.
* **I want to ask how the payments work... are payments applied to the earliest charges?**
  * Yes, there are two ways for Vista to do that. In practicality, it's a moot point. At the lock box and at the CPACs, when a payment is applied to a veteran's first party account... there are two ways to post a payment. One is a general account payment where a payment can be applied to a high general level to an account and the other is bill specific account payments.
  * Specific bill payments are almost never used. If one wants to post a payment to a specific bill, it can be done, it's just the cashier needs to know how to do it and the Veteran has to know they can ask for it. Not a lot of education to let Vets know that, and cashiers don't always know how to either. If one wanted to do that, one could go to an agent cashier for debt that is for that medical center only (not possible at lockbox or cpacs)
  * The general account payment is a payment where they just enter the SSN and a payment to the account... the oldest active bill receives the payment.
* **Do you think that Veterans don't use it because they don't know or other reasons?**
  * I don't think that's the reason, I think that most Veterans mail their payment to the lockbox or pay online. As such, the only type of payment application that's available is the general account payment.
* **Is there interest in paying per bill?**
  * I think it would be rare, if ever. About the only reason a Veteran ever pays their copayment charge before they get a statement... it could be useful at the time they received the service. Veterans can create a credit balance if they pay immediately, and once they get a copay charge within 30 days, it will be applied to their bill and they won't get a statement.
* **Is there any feedback about this path?**
  * Veterans can use [pay.gov](http://pay.gov/), payments received through that website are processed like lockbox payments... they send it through the mail to lockbox. What is your interest in the detail around how we process debt relief... it consists of forgiveness requests like waivers, compromise, or payment plans?
* **1100**
  * VA Form 1100 is for repayment plans.. that form is not needed for any debt relief that seeks to have the debt terminated (forgiveness or ceasing collection)
    * I don't like the 1100 - I have a rework in process. One of the US statutes don't require any specific form - VA policy indicates the use of the 1100 form. I believe it was something readily available to establish the parameters around an installment agreement. It contains the critical factors. There's nothing wrong with the 1100, but we in the VA... it's ok. There's nothing friendly or unfriendly about it.
    * The biggest challenge that veterans face with 5655 is that the instructions for how to complete it are not very clear or inclusive of what they can use to itemize their monthly expenses.
    * Should be paid back generally within 3 years - the statute that drives this doesn't indicate a minimum payment amount.
    * What we try to do is establish a prepayment plan that makes sense for the Veteran. If a veteran tells us they can't afford more than $25 a month, we'll accept that if they debt can be repaid within 3 years. If they want less than $25, then we move that to a secondary level of approval within our own operations.
    * If they need more than 3 years and they can justify it... approval is required and a local fiscal authority might request justification.
    * Local fiscal authorities.
    * For the purposes of debt termination requests, we need the 5655\. IT would be really good to provide a good explanation online to the veteran about which expenses can be included in their monthly expenses.
    * Things that drive debt relief disapprovals are the fact that the income that they note that they have and the monthly expenses leaves them a minimum amount of money that they should be able to pay to us.
