# VAHRC Representative Interview Conversation Guide
Session 1 | 02.25.2021

Key takeaways
-------

* Manages a team of policy analysts within **Revenue Operations** who are responsible for guidebooks that standardize the revenue operations within the 7 **Consolidated Patient Account Centers (CPACs)**
  * Will send us a link to the guidebooks
  * Health Resource Center (HRC) is the customer service call center identified on Patient Account Statements (PACs)
* Veterans used to contact the revenue office for information about their billing, but the revenue office has not been consolidated into the CPAC so Veterans have less access to one-on-one assistance
* An initial VPS will show the original statement date and reason for the copayment bill, but if that bill rolls over into a following VPS then Veterans will sometimes not remember what the bill is for because the original statement date and reason do not roll over
  * Would be beneficial to compare an original statement and a rollover statement
* Use case: A medical provider puts in a medication order and that order goes to the pharmacy
  * There's no indication that the medication is for a service-connected condition; the Veteran could be incorrectly billed
  * The Veteran can contact HRC who has a pharmacist on site that can correct the mistake
  * The Veteran can contact FRS at one of the medical facilities and a nurse on site can correct the mistake
  * **Followup question:** How long does it take to resolve? Will the change show up online within 30 min, 24 hrs, etc.?
* The process of sending copayment statements was put on hold starting March/April 2020 due to COVID
  * Copayments have been accruing, but Veterans do not need to pay them yet
  * Interest is not accruing on the bills
  * A statement was sent out in November notifying Veterans that they have copay bills but don't need to pay them at this time
  * Copayment statements went out in January, but an executive order from President Biden put collection on hold again
  * Veterans are:
    * Nervous because they don't know what their balances are
    * Those who do know their balance have it adding up over a year and it creates a lot of anxiety
  * Another statement about the executive order has not yet been released but is being worked on
  * Veterans, and even some VA employees, are confused about the difference between hardship requests and waivers
* Waivers apply to the entirety of copayment charges, and are probably the most popular relief option
* Sometimes insurance companies will only partially cover a copayment bill, and Veterans are confused when they receive a statement of a partial charge
* A lot of statements are returned, but there isn't a process to try to contact those Veterans because there aren't enough staff for the volume
* There is a disconnect between VHA and VBA. Veterans may have an adjudicated claim that hasn't made its way into VHA's system so they will receive a copayment bill and wonder why
  * VHA will correct this and refund payments as needed

Interview Questions - 30 min
-------

**About their work/departments**

First, I'd like to ask you a little bit about your job and department.

* How would you describe your role?

I manage a team of policy analysts who are responsible for the guidebooks that standardizes the revenue operations processes within the 7 regional CPACS (consolidated patient account centers). With that, each one of my team members is assigned a different functional area that they manage - that guidebook and associated SOPs and internal controls and stuff. It ranges through health insurance billing, collections of it, collections of copay debts, as well as customer service.

The only section I do not manage that is also part of the revenue cycle is the revenue utilization review with reviews copays, certain copays - definitely not all - but certain copays Veterans have inquired about that could be service-connected or special authority care. They do that review for other health insurance as well. That department is managed separately from my team. Otherwise I run pretty much my entire revenue cycle. We are at the program level so we work in conjunction with the 7 CPACs and their managers and leaderships and SMEs to come to a consensus on any process.

M: It's a large organization

It is! It's a large organization who's responsibility is to bring in revenue from Veterans copays billing collection and third-party payers from insurance and related cases. We recently included non-MCCF (sp?) where we collect non-MCCF (sp??) which includes tri-care which is when Veterans are eligible for health benefits and tri-care health benefits. When we have Veterans who have that dual-eligibility they need to identify which benefit they are seeking care under so the appropriate responsibility in that benefit is covering that care whether it's VA benefits or tri-care benefits. We are the piece of the organization that brings in money but with that comes with a variety of legislative requirements and strict set of rules of what can be billed to other health insurance.

* What sort of experience or knowledge do you have that you feel will be valuable for us to draw from when designing for online VHA debt tools?

I think probably it would go back to what some of the questions and issues that our Veteran population inquire about. Just to give you some background, I actually started with VA at the level where I worked with Veterans to answer any questions they had. When they called the revenue office before it got consolidated within the CPAC unit, the Veterans usually would contact the revenue office because that was the office they were most familiar with and we would help them with all questions: billing, eligibility, whatever. Now that we've come to a CPAC, the Veterans are now in a position where they have somewhat of a limited access to speak to someone one-on-one primarily because the staff that we originally assigned when the revenue was consolidated we wanted them at the actual facilities so the Veteran would have easy access like they had before the consolidation.

When the consolidation happened and the staffing was no longer aligned under the individual facilities and they were now CPAC of the 7 regional units, many of our staff, who are called Facility Revenue Staff, were located into a satellite administrative office so it became difficult for Veterans to walk down the hall to speak to someone about a bill. So now they have to travel to an off-campus facility to speak to someone or they would have to call them if they didn't want to travel. Or they could contact the health resource center (HRC) that is the customer service call center identified on the PAC (Patient Account Statement).

The Veteran sort of got caught in that web where they no longer had easy access. For me, it made it less Veteran-centric when that occurred so we tried to go out of our way to provide the same level of service telephonically. But as you know our Veteran population is often more comfortable speaking face-to-face. With that, when Veterans call us they call us because of their debt. They want to know why they got bills, what medication they got billed for, date of service it was for because they can't remember, they say they thought they were exempt from copays, so they have all those types of questions.

The initial statement with the new charges has the date of service, that initial one with the date of service is easy to identify, but if that amount rolls over into a different statement, that second statement only carries the balance without any description. So if the Veteran calls on that statement, they don't necessarily piece everything together. The statement to the Veteran sometimes gets confusing if the balance keeps rolling to the next statement and such. Oftentimes we have to work with them to explain what's on the current statement when they have that rolling balance because none of us can remember what we had the month before!

So, it's a matter of explaining to the Veterans, but we also have that service-connection piece so we have medication - the system generates the statements automatically so when the provider puts in that medication order and that order goes to the pharmacy, there's no indication that the medication is for a service-connected condition then the Veteran could inappropriately be billed because someone in the medical world didn't label it accordingly. So the Veterans will call us or the HRC and inquire about that.

The HRC has a pharmacist on hand who can make the corrections if needed. If that Veteran happens to contact the Facility Revenue Staff at one of the medical facilities, that FRS member will send an inquiry to our nurses and they will take a look at it and make corrections as well. So there's two different paths. Those are usually the incorrect copay that occurs that we have to correct. The other instances we'll have is, as you know, Veterans will have a VBA claim that they're waiting for adjudication on. Until that's adjudicated, they may get copays and then when they get that adjudication statement that they're approved benefits the Veteran will contact us and say they got approval. We will check the system and see if it's in the system - if it's not then we will get the documentation and send it to the local eligibility office and then start reviewing all their copays they have paid that may require refunding to the Veteran.

M: Your department is called?

Revenue Operations, it's under the umbrella of Office of Community Care

M: HRC is under the same umbrella?

No, HRC is under Member Services. They're kind of a contractor, I guess. They have an SLA (Service Line Agreement) with CPAC to be the customer service arm for us. So when a Veteran gets a statement, on all the statements it will have the HRC phone number for billing questions if that helps you.

M: You said you personally manage a group of people, do you assist Veterans?

My team does not. We are the ones who standardize and document the standardized operating procedures. So in this case when it comes to Veterans copays, we have two departments that direct handle copays. I have a policy analyst who is identified as the facility revenue policing and they ensure the guidebooks and internal controls for facility revenue is managed and all the SLPs needed for revenue includes customer service. Veteran Services (missed it) manages the guidebook about managing copays or collection on copays or referring the copays to the DMC and Cross-servicing program

M: Is this guidebook something we could get our hands on?

It's very well-organized. As long as you have a [VA.gov](http://va.gov/) profile, you should be able to access it. I can send you the link. It also has other - the system is a knowledge management system (KMS) so our guidebooks are in there as well as other Office of Community care guidebooks as well.

**About the Veterans**
-------

Next, I want to learn a little more about the Veterans themselves

* What kind of problems do you think Veterans are experiencing with their copayments today?

Probably because we've had a stoppage - when COVID occurred VA was given authority to stop collecting copays because of the pandemic. The pandemic was weighing on our Veterans. Beginning in, I think March/April of last year, we stopped sending out statements and stopped referring debt to DMC and Treasury for collection activity. So, we stopped all of that trying to alleviate any financial burden to Veterans.

That was then, that authority was given to us for the calendar year last year. In January we were to start back up sending out statements. When we suspended the statements, the copays kept accruing. The statements just didn't go out. So the patients weren't receiving the statements so they didn't know amounts were accruing.

Prior to of January of this year where we restarted the statements, in November of last year we sent out a letter letting them know why they hadn't receive statements and then letting them know that it's a balance they have and don't have to make payments but those who can or have to can contact us for payment plans or a waiver. We did that in November.

In January when the statements started back up, the statements went out and then prior to the end of January there was an executive order signed by President Biden to stop sending statements again because the pandemic hadn't ended and financial hardship was still out there. So under that executive order we stopped collection and referral. We're not still awaiting for possible legislative reprieve but the executive order has us stopping this through September. We are then supposed to start back up.

Because of the stop-start-stop process and the copays continuing to accumulate our Veterans are:

1. Nervous because they don't know what their balances are, and some of the statements went out in January so they don't know their balance.
2. Those who do know their balance have it adding up over a year and it creates a lot of anxiety.

Our Veterans are needing debt-relief whether in way of a payment plan or a waiver, compromise, those are the things that these Veterans are gonna inquire about to get financial relief. Most of them are on fixed income so to pay a huge medical bill would be a huge hardship for them.

M: What happened after the statements were sent out? Was there another statement?

No actually I think anything COVID-related is going through an approval process, so that communication is all still being worked on at this point.

M: Is there a group of Veterans who think they should be paying?

I'm sure there are! That group got the statements and know their balance. So I'm sure the HRC is going to tell you they're getting calls from Veterans. They also get calls from Veterans who didn't get a statement but understand that they probably have copays and trying to figure out what they need to do. We have a savvy group of Veterans out there who understand the system and will contact us to find out the balance and some of them even continue to make payments on them with that in mind. At this point they can if they want to because they still have that debt

There's a small, savvy group, but there's another group who may not understand the impact on their copays. But we have another group where their exemption is based on their income. They may not be aware that there is a hardship process they could go through. Since it's based on their income and the information is coming - I should back up. Veterans used to have to update a means test, so if their income level fell below... some formulation, but based on their income being below the threshold they didn't have to pay copays. That used to have to be updated every year but now there's a process that validates the income. If in the middle of the year they lost the job and the means test was based on the previous year's income, that may not be true today. They may not understand they could submit for a hardship that would give them that exemption if the hardship is approved.

So the difference between hardship and waiver is: a hardship would exempt you from all future debts. The only thing the hardship would not exempt them from is medication copays. The waiver comes in for those debts that they have on the books. If they have $200 of debt on the books right now that is within 180 days, that would qualify for a waiver. If the waiver is approved then that debt is wiped of

M: So all the accumulated debt in the past 180 days. So if they apply for a waiver it's not for a specific bill, it's for everything?

Correct, that falls within 180 days. And the hardship is for future patient out patient statements

M: Right, so the form they submit to say their situation has changed?

Right. Those things are the things that the Veterans may get confused about. Even our employees get confused about hardship vs waiver. The application for it - everything is by paper. HRC gets a call and Veteran is asking for waiver or hardship then they will send them the paperwork and information. All of it is done by paper and snail mail. If that could be electronically submitted I think that would be a tremendous help.

M: You said you're in a holding pattern, but they're also accruing interest?

We've shut down the interest and admin

* What type of financial assistance do Veterans request most often?

Most often they want the waiver and if possible the hardship. The hardships, those are usually, the way it's set up is hardships are determined by the local facility. If done in Phoenix then it would be reviewed in Phoenix. For waiver, Phoenix would follow under West CPAC. So it would go to that waiver committee and they would decide to approve it or not. So those two things are the biggest things Veterans ask for. Veterans probably ask for a waiver more often because it's debt on the book.

The hardship doesn't come up that often unless the customer service person happens to recommend it or talks about it. The waiver is probably the most popular. And in the same token, the repayment plan. Usually the conversation would go through the repayment plan, if they're just calling for debt relief. The conversation would ask, "Would you be able to make payments on a repayment plan?" Then the Veteran may say they can't do anything and ask for something else. Then compensation comes up


**Repayment plans** 
-------

I also have a few questions about the repayment plans themselves.

* We noticed that payment plans usually require the Veteran to pay off the debt within 3 years - are longer repayment plans ever granted?

Right.

M: So 3 years, no more?

I can't say no more. I have to look at the policy. If it states anything in there. I know i it's longer than 24 months they have to get a supervisor's approval. But I may be mistaken about that. I think you're going to be interviewing David, one of my policy analysts, he would know that policy front-and-back.

* What is the process if the Veteran cannot pay off the debt after 3 years?
* Is there a minimum monthly amount VHA will accept?

I think a minimum of $25

Flexible task 1: VHA flow workshop
-------

I'm going to share my screen and pull up a diagram that shows our understanding of the VHA debt process, based on our online research.

_Moderator shares their screen and navigates to _[_the Miro board_](https://miro.com/app/board/o9J_kxbu2M4=/?moveToWidget=3074457354814915958&cot=14)_._

Okay! So now we're going to look at this flow together to make sure I understand things correctly. We had to draw some assumptions while making this, so if something's wrong, feel free to shout it out! I've also got a bunch of questions to ask about the flow, so we will try to get to as many of those as possible before the end of our session.

M: Starting at the beginning we have a section about whether or not they have insurance. Are Veterans ever billed up front?

The only time they're billed up front is if they don't have OHI then they're sent out in the monthly statement cycle

M: OHI?

Other Health Insurance. So if there's no health insurance on file they'll get billed right away in that month.

M: In person?

Nope, if in January that facility (different billing cycles per region) let's say you send statements out on the 15th then all those previous would be sent out then. When I worked at the VAMC there was a group of Veterans who knew when they picked up a medication they would get a copay and because the cashiers office was in the same location as the pharmacy they would pick up their medication and immediately make a payment. They didn't want any debt on their file. So we do have patients who will do that.

M: If a Veteran has OHI, you have that on file right? So in the first 90 days does the Veteran get the statement or is it sent to the insurance?

The way the system is set up today is if we have health insurance on file and it's a billable insurance meaning it's a third party we can receive reimbursement on) if Medicare its their only health. insurance and we don't get reimbursed then it's not counted. If the Veteran has Blue Cross Blue Shield which is billable by the VA, then their co-pay is put on hold for 90 days.  So the system has a clock.  But that 90 days starts on the date when the third party bill is generated. That is to allow the third party payer to adjudicate the claim and send any reimbursement that policy plan allows.

M: So in the meantime the Veteran doesn't receive a statement?

No

M: As far as they know it doesn't exist then if their insurance is one you can bill then they will never receive a statement?

Right, that copay will be cancelled

M: What are reasons third party payers not pay?

At the beginning fo the year a lot of health plans have deductibles or copays. So many of their benefits go towards deductibles or cross shares. In the world of high deductible carriers, they'll keep applying benefits to meet the high deductible threshold before paying. So anything that goes towards a co-insurance or cross-share is deemed as no reimbursement from VA. Then we'll have other situations where say their policy doesn't cover that care. If those get denied then the copays would be passed on to the Veteran

M: If they don't pay within the 90 days, then the first VPS is sent out?

Correct

M: What happens if the third party payer pays after?

Then if we receive the actual dollar amount and the Veteran has already paid that copay then we put in a refund.

M: If a third party insurance pays, what happens after that? Are they notified that they're settled?

They won't receive anything from VA, but they'll receive an explanation of benefits from their health plan. So they'll see what their health plan paid to the VA.

M: Is there anything wrong or missing here?

Oh I'm sure David will find something in here. He's got an eyeball for this stuff. Let me see! I can see where he would probably grapple with the wording. Where it pays the full copayment charge... probably you want to say the full copayment charge. If the health insurance only pays $20 on a $50 copay then $30 would go to the Veteran.

M: Okay so partial third party payment?

Right, right. Yup

M: At that point if they only paid a portion then it would roll up into the first VPS?

Yeah because the person who processes the insurance payment would see it. There's a claims matching where the third party claim is matched up with the first party. If that insurance only paid $20 on a $50 copay then the $50 copay would be adjusted and the $30 would be the statement for that date of service.

M: Do you have a problem of Veterans not getting/reading their statements?

I can tell you my step-father who is a Veteran reads nothing from VA. So I have to remind him to read it, so I'm sure there are Veterans who don't remember seeing their statements. We do also have situations where Veterans are moving an they may not update their address with VA so potentially the statement may have gone to the wrong address. I have heard Veterans haven't seen it because their spouse takes care of all the bills or a caregiver who takes care of all their finances. So our Veterans may not be aware of any of these things.

M: In the process of getting these statements, are there any other contact attempts?

Well, if they moved and their statements come back to us because of no forwarding address then there's not a built in process for someone to contact them. Mostly because it's a large group of incidences when that can occur. We don't have enough staff to call when a statement is returned. So 'bad address' and stuff. There is a requirement in our system to produce three statements prior to a debt being referred to Treasury.

M: Is it common that Veterans aren't getting the statements?

I can't say what that population is, I just know that happens because a lot of statements are returned.

M: Do you find any aspects of the statements they don't understand?

Yeah, when statements are rolled over to the next and there's no description. I'd probably say they're confused when they see a decrease adjustment on their statement because like I said when an insurance pays something and doesn't cover the entire copay the decrease shows up and they may not understand what that is. (Wonder if there's a diary code for this)

Back in November I told you there was a letter sent out informing about the debts. When they make a payment on [Pay.Gov](http://pay.gov/) they have to have their account number. They can't just put in their SSN. If they don't have the account number they're not able to make a payment.

M: Do you think there's glaring issues with the flow?

I think David will have feedback.

M: What impact do you think this will have?

The ability this will have to send and receive things electronically. I think to go a step further with that, knowing that some of the facility campuses and their restrictive parking situation just going to some of these facilities is stressful because you have to find a parking space. Then navigating to speak to someone about your bills. I think if we can provide a one-stop-shop for Veterans to see their debt and understand it, give them a pathway to contact the right people to get their answers. Then if they need to do anything else, provide a way for them to send it electronically and not be enslaved to going to the facility and relying on the postal services. Just making it easier for the Veterans to see and understand everything and communicate would be tremendous. Even for the older ones who aren't exactly tech savvy. But they're usually being cared for by someone who is.

M: Do you have any copayment stats to share?

I don't, but if you need any data we have a whole department that is equipped to try to find whatever data people are requesting. If there is a need just drop me a line.

M: Any other information you think we should know about how Veterans interact with their copayments?

Making things easier and more transparent. The only other thing I would add, to the general public and Veterans they think VA is the VA. What one side knows the other side should know as well. We know that's not true.

Most of our Veterans' eligibility is based on claims that sit with VBA. They're confused when VBA has adjudicated their claim and VHA doesn't have it in their system yet. I think that is probably the general public don't understand. We're one VA but various systems that don't talk to each other. We rely on different methods to get information transmitted to the other side of the house. It's hard to explain to our other Veterans.

L: There's currently an online portal where Veterans can view their statements, but 1/2 a percent of Veterans view it. Do you have a gut feeling why?

My gut reaction is probably because the Veterans don't know it's available. I don't think it's been publicized enough to let the Veterans know that there is a place for them to go see it.

M: Would you say Veterans consider these debts, bills, copayments

It depends which Veteran population you're speaking to. We have one portion who doesn't think they should be billed at all, we have another side of it who understands that it is a copay and they agreed to it when they enrolled and they read the 10-10EZ. Then we have another group of folks who tolerates the folks and may even have OHI but don't feel the VA has any right to get that health insurance information because they don't think VA should bill their health insurance for anything. So it's any number of perspective. Just depends on the group and their viewpoint on the VA. 

**Thank-You and Closing - 2 min**

That's all the questions I have for you!

* Do you have any questions for me?
* Can you think of anyone else we should talk to that might be able to provide more insight into the VA copayment process?

Great, well thank you so much again, and enjoy the rest of your day!
