products/veteran-onboarding/research plan 2024.md, before:

# Research Plan for IIR, Veteran Onboarding, Summer 2024   

## Background   
- What problem is your product trying to solve?   
As Veterans create accounts and login to VA.gov, we want to provide a more welcoming experience that establishes VA as a source of support and assistance as Veterans navigate the site and authenticated experience for the first time. Previous research focused on transitioning service members indicates that “people new to VA are generally having a positive experience,” but that “service members would find it helpful to receive structured and specific resources about VA and benefit eligibility” ([TSM Engagement with VA: Findings Summary](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/blob/master/products/identity-personalization/onboarding/discovery-research/2024-03-onboarding-generative-research/findings-summary.md); [TSM: Research Review](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/blob/master/products/identity-personalization/onboarding/discovery-research/research-review.md)). While personalized eligibility is difficult to assess immediately upon onboarding due to requirements for personal data we may not have yet, we can simplify existing information and direct Veterans toward VA’s actionable first steps while welcoming them to VA.
While working with the Authenticated Experience Team, we also discovered an opportunity to partner on initiatives and direct new users to a review and verify their contact information, once they have verified their idenity. By welcoming users and then encouraging them to complete their profile, we can prevent inaccuracies with their contact information at a later time.

	Additional documentation   
	[Research notes for Authenticated Experience, Profile Completion, Summer 2024](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/blob/master/products/identity-personalization/profile/profile-completion/discovery-research/research-plan.md)   

- Where is your product situated on VA.gov? (ex: auth vs. unauth)   
Because there are separate initiatives focused on the transitioning service member experience prior to authentication, we are focused on a product that exists within the authenticated experience, once a Veteran has created a new account and logged in.

- What is Veterans’ familiarity with this tool? Is this a new product or an iteration on an existing one?   
This is a new product; our MVP version is a message on My VA focused on providing Veterans with 1) a brief welcome message 2) 2 actions they can use to begin learning about VA.gov. For users who are not verified, we have a message with actions that can be taken prior to identity verification, such as finding a representative or reviewing the new Getting Started at VA (this page is soon to launch by the VES Transition Team). When users have verified, we can address them by name in a welcome message and direct them to actions that are available once they have completed LOA 3, such as reviewing their contact information and accessing their Veteran status card.


[Link to product brief](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/blob/master/products/veteran-onboarding/product-outline.md)

### OCTO Priorities    
This research supports the 2024 goal of “Our digital experiences are the best way to access VA health care and benefits.”   

### Veteran Journey    
This research is most closely related to a moment that matters within two early phases of the [Veteran journey](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/blob/master/platform/design/va-product-journey-maps/Veteran%20Journey%20Map.pdf).   
Getting out: Engaging VA to access benefits and services   
Starting up: Attending to health needs (moment that matters)   

## Research Goals	
**What are you trying to learn from this research?**   

Our primary goal for this research is to test our proposed welcome message and action to determine if Veterans feel welcomed, supported, and guided by succinct, actionable steps. Our secondary goal is to review the profile completion flow to better understand what Veterans think about providing contact information to VA, and identify any further opportunities to support Veterans when they first create an account, verify their identity, and begin their journey with VA.


### Outcome
**How will this research advance your product to the next phase in the design process? What will you do with your learnings?**   

This research will help us determine if an onboarding message and guidance will assist Veterans when they first log in to VA.gov. We want to understand how Veterans view and manage their contact information during their onboarding epxerience. We’re testing an MVP and proof of concept that will provide direction for further onboarding initiatives. 

### Research questions
1. What do Veterans expect the first time they create an account on VA.gov?    
2. What kind of onboarding experience will help Veterans feel welcome and supported as they explore their benefits?   
3. What changes, if any, can we make to improve the onboarding experience to help Veterans determine their first actions on VA.gov?   
4. What are the challenges Veterans face when first engaging with VA.gov and setting up their account?
5. How do Veterans engage with their profile and information upon first logging in to their account?   

### Hypothesis
Based on the previous research, we hypothesize that we’ll confirm that:
1. **Veterans want specific and personalized eligibility recommendations** (which is likely out of scope until the creation of a tool like BDS. In the meantime, we are communicating and sharing updates with the VES Transition Team and will look for opportunities to integrate new tools during onboarding).
2. **However, we hypothesize that the onboarding experience can be improved by a more human-centered approach, such as:**

    **a. Messaging that welcomes Veterans and reaffirms that they are entitled to their benefits** ([TSM: Research Review](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/blob/master/products/identity-personalization/onboarding/discovery-research/research-review.md), which references additional supporting studies, as well, indicates that Veterans “feel hesitation or shame about using VA benefits because people feel they are undeserving or taking away from others”) and **establishes VA as a trusted support system early on in a Veteran’s journey** ([TSM: Research Review](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/blob/master/products/identity-personalization/onboarding/discovery-research/research-review.md) notes that “It is a major adjustment for service members to acclimate to civilian life; a significant factor in this is the lack of structure and direction, and the departure from their military community and support system.”)
   
    **b. Focused actions that will improve their overall experience.** Veterans reported that the “complexity of VA discourages people from applying for benefits, especially for people with cognitive considerations” (TSM: Research Review). While we cannot simplify eligibility requirements and application process within the scope of this project, we can reduce the cognitive load of account creation by providing quick actions, like reviewing contact information, that will support the Veterans' overall experience when they do begin to apply for benefits.


## Methodology	
We will do remote testing on a Figma prototype to test the concept of our proposed page and the profile completion flow. This initial study may be only focused on a Figma prototype to test the onboarding and contact information flow concepts.

### Location
We will do remote testing using Zoom.   

### Research materials - TBD
*Note: your OCTO/VA lead must review and approve all research materials – including this plan –  prior to submitting a recruitment request.*

Provide a link to any materials you need to run your study, including any materials needed for set up and recruitment.  

For moderated usability tests: 
- [Link to conversation guide](url goes here)
- [Link to prototype](url goes here)
	
## Recruitment	

### Recruitment approach
We want to use Perigean to recruit 12 Veteran or active duty participants who are in the process of separting for a total of 8 completed formal sessions. Potential to add 1 for pilot session, although we may be able to recruit and run that separately based on our networks.

Work in Progress - Which inclusive research strategies are you leveraging for this study? OCTO recommends using a lean maximum variation strategy for most studies. Refer to the resources above to learn more. Read this [introduction to inclusive research](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/blob/master/teams/vsa/accessibility/research/introduction.md) and use the [recruitment checker (google sheets)](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1pq7TSHZonfpzAQBJj6B2geGHlNUwZEs4DzEvxcRgu0o/edit?usp=sharing) to understand OCTO's targets for inclusivity.

### Recruitment criteria
List the total number and type (Veterans, caregivers, etc.) of participants for this study. 
12 Veterans or active duty service members

**Primary criteria (must-haves)**
What demographics, experience, and scenarios do you need participants to meet to effectively run your study?   

Separation status:
* We would like 6 active duty service members who are separating from service by March 2025   
* We would like 6 Veterans who separated from service in 2023   
*Alternatively, if there are Veterans who separated prior to 2023, but have never engaged with VA.gov, that would also satisfy the requirement.*

Military branch:
* 2-4 Army
* At least 2 Navy   
* At least 2 Marine Corps   
* At least 2 Air Force or Space Force   
* 1-2 Coast Guard

Experience with VA   
*Participants should represent a mix of experience with VA, and with VA.gov*
* 4-6 should have no direct experience with VA or VA.gov
* 6 should have some experience with VA or VA.gov

Demographics and inclusion   
*Participants should represent a mix of genders and ethnicities*   
* At least 5 who identify as other than male  
* At least 5 who identify as other than Caucasian  


**Recruitment criteria for experience or scenarios as screener questions with qualifying responses**  
1. Are you able to join a research session via Zoom from a computer or  smartphone?
* Response options: Yes or No (Answer must be yes for participants to qualify)

2. Are you an active duty service member who will be separating from service by March 2025?
* Response options: Yes or No (Either 2 or 3 must be answered 'yes' in order to satisfy the criteria)

3. Did you separate from service in 2023?
* Response options: Yes or No (Either 2 or 3 must be answered 'yes' in order to satisfy the criteria)

5. How often do you use VA.gov?
* Response option (select 1)
  - I have not engaged with VA.gov at all.
  - I have an account on VA.gov, but have not applied for benefits or services.
  - I have an account on VA.gov and have applied for 1-2 benefits or services.
  - I have an account on VA.gov and regularly use it to view the status of my benefits or services.


**Secondary criteria (nice-to-haves)**
What criteria would strengthen your results? 
TBD

## Timeline - Proposed
Please submit artifacts for [Research Review](https://depo-platform-documentation.scrollhelp.site/collaboration-cycle/Research-review.1781891143.html) 8-9 days prior to the first planned research day for remote studies so Perigean can begin recruiting one week prior. Perigean requires 2+ weeks for in-person.   

1. Design intent - Scheduled for 5/14
2. Accessibility consult: Initiate request 5/14
3. Conversation guide and additional research materials: To be completed by 5/24
4. Mid-fi prototype: To be completed by 5/24
5. Development on MVP: To be potentially start on 5/28 and completed by 6/7
6. Research submitted and added to repo board: 5/27
7. Estimated research approval: 5/30
8. Kickoff Call with Perigean: 6/5
9. Estimated midpoint: On or before 6/12
10. Recruitment: Starting the week of 6/10
11. Pilot session: 6/14
12. Usability testing: Week of 6/17 onward as needed

A [calendar of the proposed timeline](https://app.mural.co/t/departmentofveteransaffairs9999/m/departmentofveteransaffairs9999/1715094488820/4bf4fbc61074803b5a44b79973852b1c68106d44?sender=u82254af9423cfa236f383306) can be found in Mural


### Prepare - TBD
When will the thing you are testing be finalized? Ideally it's ready a week before testing begins and has also been through a [Midpoint review](https://depo-platform-documentation.scrollhelp.site/collaboration-cycle/Midpoint-review.1781039167.html).

A pilot session is required. Please indicate the date and name of a mock participant for a pilot session. 
* Pilot participant email:
* Date and time of pilot session: 

### Research sessions - Not Yet Finalized
* Planned dates of research: Currently we're estimating that our research will take place the week of June 17th.   
* Proposed dates:
	- 6/17, 6/18, 6/19, 6/20 (national holiday), 6/21
	- We can add on dates the following week to assist with available times

### Length of sessions
* Session length: 45 minutes
* Buffer time between sessions: 30 minutes   
* Maximum Sessions per day: 3   

### Availability - Not Yet Finalized
When would you like sessions scheduled? Please list exact dates and times in **EASTERN Standard Time**. *Note: we recommend providing availability outside of work hours, as many Veterans are only available before and after working times, and live across the U.S.*  
* June 17: Starting time - 8 a.m. EST, ending time 7 p.m. EST   
* June 18: Starting time - 8 a.m. EST, ending time 7 p.m. EST   
* June 19: Starting time - 8 a.m. EST, ending time 7 p.m. EST   
* June 20: Blocked off for holiday
* June 21: Starting time - 8 a.m. EST, ending time 7 p.m. EST

If additional times are required for participants, we have some flexibility to extend. 

Please request enough dates and at ***least double the amount of time slots for the number of requested participants***. (e.g. Monday 9-1, 3-6; Tuesday 9-6, etc.; ***12 time slots for 6 participants***).    
	
## Team Roles	
- Moderator: Liza McRuer
- Research guide writing and task development (usually but not always same as moderator): Liza McRuer
- Participant recruiting & screening:	Perigean
- Project point of contact:	Liza McRuer
- Participant(s) for pilot test: TBD
- Accessibility specialist (for sessions where support for assistive technology may be needed):	TBD
- Note-takers:	Team signup Sheet (Link TBD)
- Observers:	Sign-up via Slack Canvasa (Link TBD)

------
Update Log:   
* Liza McRuer, 6/10/2024, adjusted goals and added in secondary research of testing a profile completion flow

Commit message:

Update research plan 2024.md
Updated with materials

products/veteran-onboarding/research plan 2024.md, after:

# Research Plan for IIR, Veteran Onboarding, Summer 2024   

## Background   
- What problem is your product trying to solve?   
As Veterans create accounts and login to VA.gov, we want to provide a more welcoming experience that establishes VA as a source of support and assistance as Veterans navigate the site and authenticated experience for the first time. Previous research focused on transitioning service members indicates that “people new to VA are generally having a positive experience,” but that “service members would find it helpful to receive structured and specific resources about VA and benefit eligibility” ([TSM Engagement with VA: Findings Summary](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/blob/master/products/identity-personalization/onboarding/discovery-research/2024-03-onboarding-generative-research/findings-summary.md); [TSM: Research Review](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/blob/master/products/identity-personalization/onboarding/discovery-research/research-review.md)). While personalized eligibility is difficult to assess immediately upon onboarding due to requirements for personal data we may not have yet, we can simplify existing information and direct Veterans toward VA’s actionable first steps while welcoming them to VA.
While working with the Authenticated Experience Team, we also discovered an opportunity to partner on initiatives and direct new users to a review and verify their contact information, once they have verified their idenity. By welcoming users and then encouraging them to complete their profile, we can prevent inaccuracies with their contact information at a later time.

	Additional documentation   
	[Research notes for Authenticated Experience, Profile Completion, Summer 2024](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/blob/master/products/identity-personalization/profile/profile-completion/discovery-research/research-plan.md)   

- Where is your product situated on VA.gov? (ex: auth vs. unauth)   
Because there are separate initiatives focused on the transitioning service member experience prior to authentication, we are focused on a product that exists within the authenticated experience, once a Veteran has created a new account and logged in.

- What is Veterans’ familiarity with this tool? Is this a new product or an iteration on an existing one?   
This is a new product; our MVP version is a message on My VA focused on providing Veterans with 1) a brief welcome message 2) 2 actions they can use to begin learning about VA.gov. For users who are not verified, we have a message with actions that can be taken prior to identity verification, such as finding a representative or reviewing the new Getting Started at VA (this page is soon to launch by the VES Transition Team). When users have verified, we can address them by name in a welcome message and direct them to actions that are available once they have completed LOA 3, such as reviewing their contact information and accessing their Veteran status card.


[Link to product brief](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/blob/master/products/veteran-onboarding/product-outline.md)

### OCTO Priorities    
This research supports the 2024 goal of “Our digital experiences are the best way to access VA health care and benefits.”   

### Veteran Journey    
This research is most closely related to a moment that matters within two early phases of the [Veteran journey](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/blob/master/platform/design/va-product-journey-maps/Veteran%20Journey%20Map.pdf).   
Getting out: Engaging VA to access benefits and services   
Starting up: Attending to health needs (moment that matters)   

## Research Goals	
**What are you trying to learn from this research?**   

Our primary goal for this research is to test our proposed welcome message and action to determine if Veterans feel welcomed, supported, and guided by succinct, actionable steps. Our secondary goal is to review the profile completion flow to better understand what Veterans think about providing contact information to VA, and identify any further opportunities to support Veterans when they first create an account, verify their identity, and begin their journey with VA.


### Outcome
**How will this research advance your product to the next phase in the design process? What will you do with your learnings?**   

This research will help us determine if an onboarding message and guidance will assist Veterans when they first log in to VA.gov. We want to understand how Veterans view and manage their contact information during their onboarding epxerience. We’re testing an MVP and proof of concept that will provide direction for further onboarding initiatives. 

### Research questions
1. What do Veterans expect the first time they create an account on VA.gov?    
2. What kind of onboarding experience will help Veterans feel welcome and supported as they explore their benefits?   
3. What changes, if any, can we make to improve the onboarding experience to help Veterans determine their first actions on VA.gov?   
4. What are the challenges Veterans face when first engaging with VA.gov and setting up their account?
5. How do Veterans engage with their profile and information upon first logging in to their account?   

### Hypothesis
Based on the previous research, we hypothesize that we’ll confirm that:
1. **Veterans want specific and personalized eligibility recommendations** (which is likely out of scope until the creation of a tool like BDS. In the meantime, we are communicating and sharing updates with the VES Transition Team and will look for opportunities to integrate new tools during onboarding).
2. **However, we hypothesize that the onboarding experience can be improved by a more human-centered approach, such as:**

    **a. Messaging that welcomes Veterans and reaffirms that they are entitled to their benefits** ([TSM: Research Review](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/blob/master/products/identity-personalization/onboarding/discovery-research/research-review.md), which references additional supporting studies, as well, indicates that Veterans “feel hesitation or shame about using VA benefits because people feel they are undeserving or taking away from others”) and **establishes VA as a trusted support system early on in a Veteran’s journey** ([TSM: Research Review](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/blob/master/products/identity-personalization/onboarding/discovery-research/research-review.md) notes that “It is a major adjustment for service members to acclimate to civilian life; a significant factor in this is the lack of structure and direction, and the departure from their military community and support system.”)
   
    **b. Focused actions that will improve their overall experience.** Veterans reported that the “complexity of VA discourages people from applying for benefits, especially for people with cognitive considerations” (TSM: Research Review). While we cannot simplify eligibility requirements and application process within the scope of this project, we can reduce the cognitive load of account creation by providing quick actions, like reviewing contact information, that will support the Veterans' overall experience when they do begin to apply for benefits.


## Methodology	
We will do remote testing on a Figma prototype to test the concept of our proposed page and the profile completion flow. This initial study may be only focused on a Figma prototype to test the onboarding and contact information flow concepts, before we conduct a secondary study for accessibility in staging.

### Location
We will do remote testing using Zoom.   

### Research materials
*Note: your OCTO/VA lead must review and approve all research materials – including this plan –  prior to submitting a recruitment request.*

Provide a link to any materials you need to run your study, including any materials needed for set up and recruitment.  

For moderated usability tests: 
- [Link to conversation guide](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/blob/master/products/veteran-onboarding/conversation%20guide.md)
- [Link to prototype](https://www.figma.com/proto/CertVj7cu66kFv9TnseR30/Veteran-Onboarding?page-id=300%3A11104&node-id=300-11287&viewport=553%2C142%2C0.13&t=K7BD3b37FTWP1gKA-1&scaling=min-zoom&content-scaling=fixed&starting-point-node-id=300%3A11287&show-proto-sidebar=1)
	
## Recruitment	

### Recruitment approach
We want to use Perigean to recruit 12 Veteran or active duty participants who are in the process of separting for a total of 8 completed formal sessions. Potential to add 1 for pilot session, although we may be able to recruit and run that separately based on our networks.

Work in Progress - Which inclusive research strategies are you leveraging for this study? OCTO recommends using a lean maximum variation strategy for most studies. Refer to the resources above to learn more. Read this [introduction to inclusive research](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/blob/master/teams/vsa/accessibility/research/introduction.md) and use the [recruitment checker (google sheets)](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1pq7TSHZonfpzAQBJj6B2geGHlNUwZEs4DzEvxcRgu0o/edit?usp=sharing) to understand OCTO's targets for inclusivity.

### Recruitment criteria
List the total number and type (Veterans, caregivers, etc.) of participants for this study. 
12 Veterans or active duty service members

**Primary criteria (must-haves)**
What demographics, experience, and scenarios do you need participants to meet to effectively run your study?   

Separation status:
* We would like 6 active duty service members who are separating from service by March 2025   
* We would like 6 Veterans who separated from service in 2023   
*Alternatively, if there are Veterans who separated prior to 2023, but have never engaged with VA.gov, that would also satisfy the requirement.*

Military branch:
* 2-4 Army
* At least 2 Navy   
* At least 2 Marine Corps   
* At least 2 Air Force or Space Force   
* 1-2 Coast Guard

Experience with VA   
*Participants should represent a mix of experience with VA, and with VA.gov*
* 4-6 should have no direct experience with VA or VA.gov
* 6 should have some experience with VA or VA.gov

Demographics and inclusion   
*Participants should represent a mix of genders and ethnicities*   
* At least 5 who identify as other than male  
* At least 5 who identify as other than Caucasian  


**Recruitment criteria for experience or scenarios as screener questions with qualifying responses**  
1. Are you able to join a research session via Zoom from a computer or  smartphone?
* Response options: Yes or No (Answer must be yes for participants to qualify)

2. Are you an active duty service member who will be separating from service by March 2025?
* Response options: Yes or No (Either 2 or 3 must be answered 'yes' in order to satisfy the criteria)

3. Did you separate from service in 2023?
* Response options: Yes or No (Either 2 or 3 must be answered 'yes' in order to satisfy the criteria)

5. How often do you use VA.gov?
* Response option (select 1)
  - I have not engaged with VA.gov at all.
  - I have an account on VA.gov, but have not applied for benefits or services.
  - I have an account on VA.gov and have applied for 1-2 benefits or services.
  - I have an account on VA.gov and regularly use it to view the status of my benefits or services.


**Secondary criteria (nice-to-haves)**
What criteria would strengthen your results? 
TBD

## Timeline - Proposed
Please submit artifacts for [Research Review](https://depo-platform-documentation.scrollhelp.site/collaboration-cycle/Research-review.1781891143.html) 8-9 days prior to the first planned research day for remote studies so Perigean can begin recruiting one week prior. Perigean requires 2+ weeks for in-person.   

1. Design intent: Complete 5/14
2. Accessibility consult: Complete 6/11
3. Conversation guide and additional research materials: Ready for review 6/18
4. Mid-fi prototype: Ready for review 6/18
5. Development on MVP: TBD
6. Research submitted and added to repo board: Estimated June 27
7. Estimated research approval: Estimated July 5
8. Kickoff Call with Perigean: TBD
9. Estimated midpoint: TBD
10. Recruitment: TBD
11. Pilot session: TBD
12. Usability testing: TBD

A [calendar of the proposed timeline](https://app.mural.co/t/departmentofveteransaffairs9999/m/departmentofveteransaffairs9999/1715094488820/4bf4fbc61074803b5a44b79973852b1c68106d44?sender=u82254af9423cfa236f383306) can be found in Mural


### Prepare - Not Yet Finalized
When will the thing you are testing be finalized? Ideally it's ready a week before testing begins and has also been through a [Midpoint review](https://depo-platform-documentation.scrollhelp.site/collaboration-cycle/Midpoint-review.1781039167.html).

A pilot session is required. Please indicate the date and name of a mock participant for a pilot session. 
* Pilot participant email:
* Date and time of pilot session: 

### Research sessions - Not Yet Finalized
* Planned dates of research: Currently we're estimating that our research will take place the week of June 17th.   
* Proposed dates:
	- 7/22, 7/23, 7/24, 7/25, 7/26
	- We can add on dates the following week to assist with available times

### Length of sessions
* Session length: 1 hour
* Buffer time between sessions: 30 minutes   
* Maximum Sessions per day: 3   

### Availability - Not Yet Finalized
When would you like sessions scheduled? Please list exact dates and times in **EASTERN Standard Time**. *Note: we recommend providing availability outside of work hours, as many Veterans are only available before and after working times, and live across the U.S.*  
* July 22: Starting time - 8 a.m. EST, ending time 7 p.m. EST   
* July 23: Starting time - 8 a.m. EST, ending time 7 p.m. EST   
* July 24: Starting time - 8 a.m. EST, ending time 7 p.m. EST   
* July 25: Blocked off for holiday
* July 26: Starting time - 8 a.m. EST, ending time 7 p.m. EST

If additional times are required for participants, we have some flexibility to extend. 

Please request enough dates and at ***least double the amount of time slots for the number of requested participants***. (e.g. Monday 9-1, 3-6; Tuesday 9-6, etc.; ***12 time slots for 6 participants***).    
	
## Team Roles	
- Moderator: Liza McRuer
- Research guide writing and task development (usually but not always same as moderator): Liza McRuer
- Participant recruiting & screening:	Perigean
- Project point of contact:	Liza McRuer
- Participant(s) for pilot test: TBD
- Accessibility specialist (for sessions where support for assistive technology may be needed):	Not this study, but we will conduct a secondary study
- Note-takers:	Team signup Sheet (Link TBD)
- Observers:	Sign-up via Slack Canvas (Link TBD)

------
Update Log: 
Liza McRuer, 6/18/2024, added research materials, updated timeframe
* Liza McRuer, 6/10/2024, adjusted goals and added in secondary research of testing a profile completion flow
