## Task: [Start Application] - 5 minutes
**Quotes, notes and observations:**
- Has the US dept of Veteran affairs on the top left, that is where I know I am at the right place
- I would go to the sign in button, and if not look for a register button (Goes to sign in button on header)
- I would create an account with login.gov or go in and create an account with Id.md
- Am I using the ID.me I use for the irs account? Or do I need to create a new one for VA.gov
- (signed into VA.gov website before) No
- So then I would just create an account with login.gov, that would be a whole different account, right?
- (clicks on verifying identity link)
- Is it going to require me to verify my identify? 
- so i would be signing in or creating an account with an ID.me account

- (reads page out loud, first paragraph and alert box)
- (opens eligibility requirements add info, continues reading outloud)
- Does that include Tri-care?
- I have tri-care prime through my husband, we are both retired Veterans
- it would help to be specific about that on this page


**Participant questions:**
- On a scale of 1-5 (1 being very poorly and 5 being very well) - how prepared does this page make you feel about the application you are about to begin? Why did you give it that rating?

- Makes me feel pretty prepared, my only question is tri-care? What does tri-care fall under? Is it medicare, private..
- They always ask me if it is private insurace and I just know it is Tri-CARE. 

- Can you tell us more about what you would have to do in preparation for filling out this application?

- This information here is at least enough to get started.
- because I will have last years income, this is the only thing I would have to look up
- I would have to gather my husbands informaiton
- Once I have that I would be ready to start the applicaiton


### Things to watch for:
- [Quotes from participant about any content on the intro page that makes them feel uneasy, confused or not prepared to complete application.]
- [Does the partipant sign in as a next action or do they say they would complete the application without signing in?]

#### Observer rating of task completion
- [Observer ratings of start application task completion using rating criteria]
- 0 = No part of the task completed, much difficulty
- 1 = Partial completion, much overlooked or task was difficult 
- 2 = Partial completion, some areas were overlooked or task was slightly difficult
- [3] = Most of the task was completed with little difficulty
- 4 = All parts of the task were completed with no difficulty 


## Task: [Pre-check & pre-populated info] - 3 minutes 
**Quotes, notes and observations:**
- It's pretty self explanatory
- On the actual site, when I type my social security number will it be encrypted. 
- The asterixs will be there.
- Yeah it does, it just leaves the last 4.

- (name pages, reads and stays on page for a second before clicking continue, reads footer)
- Everything looks good
- If I have any issues with the page, it is giving me points of contact I can call


### Things to watch for:
- [Does the participant click on the sign in link on this page?]
- [Does the participant comment on the first 4 following pages and that they show the same questions with info prefilled if they go the non-sign in route?]
- [If the participant comments on this, is it positive or negative?]


---
[Step 1 of 6: Veteran information]


## Task: [Complete Veteran Information Section] - 5 minutes
**Quotes, notes and observations:**
- (in state drop down choses other)
- On state, I was born in Peurto Rico, when I hit enter is is not going to ask me?
- I would enter 
- You have a lot of Peurto Ricans that serve, 
- it has the option of other then a window pops up for you to specify.
- oops that my maiden name, (corrects field)
- What sex you were assigned at birth? Never seen this, but what to you identity as?
- So if the VA wanted to know how I identity with, this doesn't let them know how I identify.
- Saying,... unless they do the question two different ways. Next they ask you how I identify.
- (check recording for quote) 
- (reads through American Indian question) so No
- Now is a PO box acceptable or does it have to be an address?
- Like sometimes it would tell you no PO box, sometimes companies want it to go to the physical address
- If I put my PO box, would I get a popup saying it has to be a physical addresss?
- If it takes the PO box I would just use the 
- Just to know if I have a choice, I can put my physical address and my PO box
- I could put two (addresses on the street address lines) 
- WOuld that create confusion?
- But I am not getting a popup which tells me they would send it to a PO box?
- I have gotten that popup on other sites before, no PO box has to be a physical address
- (Reads home address question)
- No
- (expectation) If they require the physical address, a window to open that I can type that it
- I don't know if they require a physical address or not, for legal reasons I don't know.
- (clicks continue)
- so this is home address, so the home address would go on here
- (preferred method of being contacted by VA) usually email, unless there is info they need right away then texting
- I don't like my phone to ring, I get so many junk calls. I get the spam alert on there, if I pick up try and sell me insurance, car warrenty, 
-  


**Participant questions:**
- What worked well for you?
- What was unclear or didn’t work well for you?
- What would you like to change or add?

### Things to watch for:
- [Does the participant comment on the length of this section of the form, number of questions/page or the progress bar?]
- [New American Indian question]

---
[Step 2 of 6: VA benefits]

## Task: [Disability Rating] - 3 minutes
**Quotes, notes and observations:**
- (answers no)
- (reading current compensation from VA, pension question)



### Things to watch for:
- [Does the participant understand the questions and content through these sections?]
- [Does the participant comment that the questions are too intrusive?]
- [Does the participant select a disability rating that results in the short form flow?]
- [Does the particpant select an option that results in the VA pension question page?]



---
[Step 3 of 6: Military service]

## Task: [Dates] - 3 minutes
**Quotes, notes and observations:**
- I would need my DD214, because I am not sure... 
- (copy ready to go question) Let's see.. (stuck on picking day)
- My husband is like take it to the court house and get copies, they will give you back notorized copies
- I have a binder i keep here, but it got moved (is actually looking for DD214 to enter in start day of month)
- I was in the reserves, they discharge you from the reserves to go to active duty
- I have all my evaluations here... (looking through a folder).. here we go
- (2 DD214s) The first one is reserves, discharged from reserves then go back in active duty. 
- the new ones says to (dates)
- (expectation of dates) I would just go by the dd214, that is the document we use to verify my service time
- Because I am awa
- The total serving time with the adjustment includes the reserve time
- i always only use the one, the active duty DD214
- I don't know if that would confuse people, the VA would know
- (enters dates from dd214)
- (reading outloud all options on military service page)
- I still see people with Korean war on their hats, so I don't know
- Yeah, Vietnam with dates. you still have Korean war veterans walking around, are they excluded looking at this
- That would be my only other one




### Things to watch for:
- [Does the participant understand the questions and content through these sections?]
- [Does the participant comment that the questions are too intrusive or the VA should have this information?]


## Task: [Upload a file] - 3 minutes
**Quotes, notes and observations:**
- (reading through page content out loud)
- I mean young veterans would be fine with this
- You still have old Veterans, they are eligible to use VA benefits, they don't know what they qualify or they don't want to take the time
- My husband works, when he runs into a Veteran who qualifys but d
- Older people don't know how to take a picture, 
- Can you accept documents by fax? Maybe if somebody could go to the library
- Maybe for the next few years, until that generation passes away
- Some people don't have a computer, phone I would always point people to the library. they have computer and fax machine
- 

### Things to watch for:
- [Does the participant understand the use of upload file/document?]
- [Does the participant enter a discharge date that is in the future or that was very recent?]


---
[Step 4 of 6: Household information]

## Task: Financial disclosure - 3 minutes
**Quotes, notes and observations:**
- (reading page outloud)
- (unclear prompt) My only question would be again, the Korean war Veterans. We still have those and they are not mentioned here (Qualifying factors list)
- That would be my only one, these are qualifying factors for VA services. We still have Korean war veterans around
- Yes, do we just have to download taxes (goes back to first paragraph to read through)



**Participant questions:**
- What worked well for you?
- What was unclear or didn’t work well for you?
- What would you like to change or add?


### Things to watch for:
- [Does the participant understand the financial disclosure page?]
- [Does the participant open the additional info on qualifying eligibility factors?]
- [Does the participant click yes or no on the financial disclosure page and express why?] 

#### Observer rating of task completion
- [Observer ratings of start application task completion using rating criteria]



## Task: Marital status and spouse information - 3 minutes
-**Quotes, notes and observations:**
- (answers Married)
- (stuck on entering fake ssn)
- (answers yes to live with you / same address


### Things to watch for:
- [Does the participant make any comments about this page happening after the financial disclosure page?]
- [Does the participant comment on or interact with the additional info component - "why we ask this information"?]
- [Does the participant comment on the second spouse page with the two lived with/address questions?]
- [Does the participant comment the question is intrusive or that they would skip and/or answer untruthfully?]

#### Observer rating of task completion
- [Observer ratings of start application task completion using rating criteria]


## Task: Adding dependents - 5 minutes
**Quotes, notes and observations:**
- No, because my girls are grown
- They don't need to know if I have any kids, just any underage kids?
- I know when I was in the military I was a dependent, when my husband was still in the service I was a dependent.
- Then they changed it to family member
- An old military dependent
- I have a 19 year old, and not dependent age, but for TRI-CARE for example she can be in there until she is 25, she will be considered a dependent
- Now they say family member, years 
- It made me pause and think about it because I was used to be referring to a dependent for so long, myself
- Get a dependent ID card
- (additional context) it might, maybe just put the age. Any dependents under 18
- That is the only thing that made me pause,
- If he were to do this form, he would count me as a dependent. 
- So if I am the Veteran, am I counting my husband as a dependent? No I don't think
- It just makes me overthink
- The old military we would look at it, making me overhtink it

- (answers no)

**Participant questions:**
- What worked well for you?
- What was unclear or didn’t work well for you?
- What would you like to change or add?

### Things to watch for:
- [Does the participant need to use the additional info of "Who does VA consider a dependent" to answer the question?]
- [Does the participant struggle with adding a second dependent?]
- [Does the participant pause or are they confused by any of the dependent information questions?]

#### Observer rating of task completion
- [Observer ratings of start application task completion using rating criteria]
-[3]


## Task: Annual Income - 5 minutes
**Quotes, notes and observations:**
- (reading through page content out loud)
- So I would have to, if I were to have teenage kids working in the house, I would have to include their income?
- It would be my income, my husbands income, 
- My daughter is 24, has a job, lives here, I don't consider here a dependent/ If she was in high school would I be counting her income?
- Otherwise it would just be me and my spouse, I don't know
- I would do household income - then it is EVERYBODY in the household
- Why would I have to do my dependents income? They don't even have to do taxes if they earn less than a certain amount
- Yeah, it is being specific here (under gross income)
- Right there clarifyes it, I would include my dependent's income only if they are contributing to the household
- So this is the income from you farm, ranch, propery or business - Net income
- And other income (reading content) 
- Other income, this would be his retirement right?
- And VA disability, he just got that increased
- (switched her husbands info under Veteran income and put herself under Spouse)


## Task: Deductible information - 5 minutes
**Quotes, notes and observations:**
- Just copays, my husband has a lot of copays i will just put 800 for now


### Things to watch for:
- [Does the participant understand this question or are they confused?]
- [Does the participant notice and call attention to the alert component?]


---
[Step 5 of 6: Insurance information]

## Task: Insurance information - 7 minutes
**Quotes, notes and observations:**
- (reading page)
- No because I am 55 (medicare)
- Yes, I have TRICare through my husband.
- (reads on TriCare dropdown, but does not interact)
- That would be my husbands social. 

(Affordable Care Act)
- If I already have Tricare would I still do this? Isn't that where I pick an insurance, rihgt?
- I would say yes, so if you already have insurance, does this apply to only uninsuranced people?
- Is this saying i am applying for VA benefits, or additional insurance
- Additional context would be helpful
- I am applying for VA health care and do I leave this blank - this is confusing 
- Affordable care makes me think of the Marketplace
- No, because i have tricare I am going to leave it blank
- (opens and reads through minimum essential converage info)
- So this would be an addition? But I am enrolled in a health care plan, TriCare
- Ok, I am going to leave it blank


[VA Facilities page]
- That would be in Texas
- they have a new building too
- I have to go to Corpus
- Is it by city, or ... if I type Corpus is is going to pop up
- Here we go, Corpus
- I was going down the list, was it alphabetical?
- No this is not alphabetical, if I started typing it it came up
- People will go to drop down right away, it is not alphabetical 
- Makes it quicker to find (alphabetical)
- Not by state either. 
- Did it ask to be contacted by text? I just clicked yes and kept going


### Things to watch for:
- [Does the participant understand this question or are they confused and need additional context?]
- [Do the medicaid and medicare questions cause pause or confuse the participant?]
- [How does the participant prefer to search and/or sort facilities?]
- [Does the participant interact with the additional links on the facilities page?]


#### Observer rating of task completion
- [Observer ratings of start application task completion using rating criteria]
- [3]

---
[Step 6 of 6: Review]

## Task: Review - 3 minutes
**Quotes, notes and observations:**
- )reads and opens sections)
- This is just to verify that everything is correct. 


**Participant questions:**
- [On a scale of 1-5 (1 being non very poorly and 5 being very well) - how prepared does this page make you feel to submit this application? Why?]
- It is giving me the details i entered, so .. I would say a 5


- Is there any reason you wouldn't submit the application at this step?
- (reads through)
- Everything is there, I would submit it. It looks complete, I am not missing anything . 

### Things to watch for:
- [Does the participant have a positive or negative sentiment about the review page?]
- [Does the participant give any reason for pause or why they wouldn's submit the application?]
- [Does the participant interact with any of the accordions or try and edit any information?]


---
## Task: Confirmation Page - 3 minutes
**Quotes, notes and observations:**
- (reads through confirmation alert)
- you can print this page, ok
- I probably missed reading something, reads contact next about application
- I would expect to get an email or a text
- but I can't remember did they ask my how I preferred to be contacted? by phone or email
- (reading through alert again) From the provided email or phone - do you see what i am saying? (specific how to contact method)
- So if it just comes here automatically, if it says email I need to check my spam box and make sure I don;t miss an email. 
- 



### Things to watch for:
- [Does the participant seem unclear on what happens next?]
- [Does the participant feel confident that they know what the next steps in the process are?]
- [Does the participant have positive or negative reaction to the confirmation page?]



## Post-Task Interview - 5 minutes

[NPS Question]
- How likely are you to recommend this online application to another Veteran? [Scale of 0 - 10]
- 10
- Pretty self expalatory and simple
- If you don't have a computer, go to the library
- At the library, the ones have the computer centers, if Veterans are directed their way they will have knowledge about this webpage

- Thinking back on the question about the first page you saw and you rated it a [x on a scale of 1-5 (1 being non very poorly and 5 being very well)], would you keep or change that rating after going through this application? Why?
- I think it prepared me well, told me what docuements I would need, I had my dd214 ready
- And it had the income on there
- It was specific 
- I would say a 5, it gave me everything I needed

- Have a lot of older veterans, things need to be as self explanatory as possible, for those that are not techy

(missing) - No, the only thing was the gender thing. Have the other choices, and that person goes and they call them on the phone they need to know how to address them. 
- They need to be addressed right, they will be distressed. 



