## My top 3 takeaways
- Participant seemed to get confused and lost in the login/signup screen (this one is a bonus for myself, on the Identity/login team!)
- “Assigned sex at birth” question didn’t sit right with this participant
- Got foiled by the address - ended up inputting both physical and PO box address on the same address form
- Confused by and had to really think about what it meant to be a dependent


## Task: [Start Application] - 5 minutes
### Quotes, notes and observations:
- Would go to sign in “I do have an ID me. I use it to log in and to look at my IRS account”
"I don’t know if I would use that" Has not signed into VA.gov using ID.me

- Seemed to get lost in the log in area unsure whether to make a new account - went to a help page
(observation wonder - does she have a VA login? She seemed to know about the VA later on, but here seemed unsure about how she would log in or if she would signup for an account)

> **Obsv Rating - 2**


## Task: [Pre-check & pre-populated info] - 3 minutes
### Quotes, notes and observations:
- Application page - Read through the eligibility requirements info very carefully and thoroughly
- Read through “gather your info” very carefully and thoroughly
- Asked about Tricare prime - has it through spouse who is also a veteran
- “What does Tricare fall under. Medicare? Private insurance?”
- “I would have to gather my husbands information [for household income]”

- Directed to start application without signing in


##  Task: [Complete Veteran Information Section] - 5 minutes
### Quotes, notes and observations:

- “Pretty self explanatory”
- Wondered if the SSN would be starred out - when clicked off that answer blank saw that it just kept the last 4 showing.

- “If I were to have any issues with the page, it’s giving me points of contact here I can call”
- Verified name, then SSN and continued through each page
- Added City/state “I was born in Puerto Rico, so when I choose other” “I didn’t see, PR is not listed on there” Would expect to click other have another blank come up where they can type PR

- Sex assigned at birth - “They usually ask ‘how do you identify as’ “ 
- “[Asking in this way] doesn’t really let them know how I identify”
- but Could understand more if it was asked both ways.

**race/ethnicity**
- “Does it let me mark more than one? Yes. Cause I’m hispanic [but also caucasian]”

**Address**
- “Now is a PO Box acceptable?” “sometimes I’ll send it to a PO Box, but a company wants it to go to a physical address”
- Tried typing in PO box, would prefer to use that.
- Mentioned she could put physical address on line 1 and PO box on line 2 and then did that. “I’m not getting a pop-up which is telling me they will send to PO box” has gotten that in the past when it must be a physical address.
> **Obsv Rating - 2 (seems to me like putting in both physical and PO box on the same address form would cause issues)**

- Expectation when clicking "no" that address are different - if req physical address, would expect a “popup”

- Read that email and phone were optional. Still input that info 
- Preferred contact method - “usually email, unless there is information they need right away, and then they can do texting” Doesn’t like phone calls, because gets so many spam calls


##  Task: [Disability Rating] - 3 minutes
### Quotes, notes and observations:
Step 2 - VA benefits
Again reads through all the info

Things to watch for:
- [Does the participant understand the questions and content through these sections?]
- [Does the participant comment that the questions are too intrusive?] no
- [Does the participant select a disability rating that results in the short form flow?] no
- [Does the participant select an option that results in the VA pension question page?] no


##  Task: [Dates] - 3 minutes
### Quotes, notes and observations:
- Started filling in service start date, got stuck “I have a binder I keep here, but it looks like it got moved” 
- Was in Reserves, discharged from that and went active duty.
- “I would just go by the DD214, I know I went active in xxxx “ 
- active duty DD service time was adjusted - it includes the reserve time “whenever I use the DD214, I only use the one, active time”

- Reads service history question carefully. “I still see people with Korean War on their hats” mentioned that everything on this page is Vietnam or later

> **Obsv Rating - 3**
Things to watch for:
- [Does the participant understand the questions and content through these sections?] yes
- [Does the participant comment that the questions are too intrusive or the VA should have this information?] no

## Task: [Upload a file] - 3 minutes
### Quotes, notes and observations:
- Again reads instructions thoroughly 
- “You still have old veterans, and their eligible to use VA benefits” [and don’t know or don’t access their benefits] “some of these older people might not know how to do this technical stuff”
- Would like to see other options for people without a computer


##  Task: Financial disclosure - 3 minutes
### Quotes, notes and observations:
- Again starts page by reading through all instructions and info
- On qualifying factors - “Again the Korean War veterans, we still have those and they are not mentioned here”
- Decided to provide financial info
> **Obsv Rating - 4**


##  Task: Marital status and spouse information - 3 minutes
### Quotes, notes and observations:
- What came to mind as a dependent? For tricare, children can be on until 25 and considered a dependent. Recalls seeing “family member” more now after being referred to as a “dependent” as a spouse of an active military member. Thinks her husband would count her as a dependent if he was filling out this question
- Thought that clarifying age would help “under 18”
- “It just makes me overthink” “It’s the old military way of looking at things”

> **Obsv Rating - 3**



##  Task: Adding dependents - 5 minutes
### Quotes, notes and observations:


##  Task: Editing and removing a dependent - 3 minutes
### Quotes, notes and observations:


##  Task: Annual Income - 5 minutes
### Quotes, notes and observations:
- Daughter lives at home, doesn’t consider her as a dependent, but would consider her for household income. Would is the phrase “household income” instead of “income of dependents”
- Was clarified appropriately for participant in the “Gross annual income” section
> **Obsv Rating - 3**

- Veteran’s other income - “so that would be retirement?” Didn’t seem to reference any information, entered after thinking about it and even adding things up outloud
> **Obsv Rating - 3**

##  Task: Deductible information - 5 minutes
### Quotes, notes and observations:



##  Task: Insurance information - 7 minutes
### Quotes, notes and observations:
- ACA checkbox - “would this only be if you don’t have insurance?” “if I leave it blank, does it mean I don’t need healthcare?” 
- ACA Makes participant think of the marketplace 
- “I have Tricare so I’m going to leave it blank”
- Thought about it, went back and forth more. Saw the “learn more” She still thought more about it but decided to leave the box unchecked
> **Obsv Rating - 2**

**VA Facilities page**
- In looking for a particular center or clinic  “This is not alphabetical” “Alphabetical makes it easier to find” she started typing and it came up though.
> **Obsv Rating - 3**

**For would like to be contacted for an appointment -**
“If they can send me a text that would help”


##  Task: Review - 3 minutes
### Quotes, notes and observations:
- Looks through all the information 
- “Nothing is missing”
- “I would submit it. It looks complete. It’s not missing anything”
> **Obsv Rating - 4**


## Task: Confirmation Page - 3 minutes
### Quotes, notes and observations:
- “I would expect to get an email or text” but couldn’t remember if contact preference was asked.
- Add in how contacting “via email” or “via phone”
- Need to know if she should check her spam box
> **Obsv Rating - 4**

## Post-Task Interview - 5 minutes
[NPS Question]
- How likely are you to recommend this online application to another Veteran? [Scale of 0 - 10] 
  - 10 “It was pretty self explanatory”
- Thinking back on the question about the first page you saw and you rated it a [x on a scale of 1-5 (1 being non very poorly and 5 being very well)], would you keep or change that rating after going through this application? Why?
  - “It prepared me well” participant called out DD and income information - 5
Did any of the questions stand out to you as unnecessary?
Did anything seem to be missing?

