**Conversation Guide: VSA Caregiver, Discovery Research for the 10-10EZ form**

*Start recording to the Cloud.*

* **I have started recording. I'd like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record my screen and audio as we talk today?" Yes it is.**

Great. Now we're really ready to begin!

**Warm-up Questions - 10 minutes**

* Tell me a little about yourself: My name is Patrick I am 58 years of age. I am currently looking forward to retirement and I like is San Diego California.

* How many years has it been since you left the service? It’s been awhile, May 4th, 1982 I joined the Marine Corps. I got out on June 5th or 4th 1985.

* Do you currently have healthcare benefits through the VA or through another provider? I do. That was 2014, I am not sure the month, I think it was January or February. I was off of work for 2 years between here and Europe so I thought I should go back to work. I was coming from private medical to va, I saw the sign and I volunteered for a year then started to work for the va continuing my medical services. That’s what lead me to the va and my service.

* Have you ever filled out the VA Health Care application either partially or fully? Yes it was paper.

**If yes, has already fully filled out and submitted form**

* Do you have any lasting impressions (anything you liked or found frustrating) of filling out the VA Health Care Application? (How does it compare to other applications you've completed? -VA or not, healthcare or not) I didn’t realize I should have spoken up more about what was going on with myself physically and mentally. I wish I had spoken up more and more fourth coming. It wasn’t clinical it was in an office with an administration individual that signed me up for benefits.

* Did it together: I believe so yes and I was interviewed by her

* What held you back: It was more of being a Marine nothing can hurt me at the time. It was more of a motion that I was then falling down to being unemployed. I took 2  years off and that’s what I was lost in what to do.

**Health Care application introduction page - 10 minutes**

* Please read the entire page and let me know if any questions come to mind: Well I actually read through it in the last week because my wife and I went over to the VBA a week ago. I had some time. I have the paperwork filled out that I will submit for, I am service connected at 0 rating. It is intimidating. I tried to send it and the gentlemen I spoke to was interested and I missed placed the number. I have wanted to fill it out years ago but never continued it.

* Why is it intimidating: well I have heard that they deny everything right away. One the page to fill the items out the columns, I don’t know if I understood it. With the va you need to provided enough but I ran out of space. They don’t want long paragraphs.

* Helpful: it was a little helpful. I have it in hard copy on my computer. Just sending it off was difficult, my work in the clinic is challenging but once I got it down it is easy. I can do it without thinking of it because I have done it for 3 years. It is a AMSA and I am the only one when normal clinics have 3.

* Infomration it would ask for to prepare or didn’t have on hand: No there wasn’t anything that I didn’t have. My insurance has been with the va since 2014. I have attempted to get my DD214 but I never heard back so I do not have a copy of my dd214.

**Applying for healthcare benefits task - 25 minutes**

Go ahead and continue as if you were applying for healthcare.

If they need an SSN, use 548-79-5555

* Any hiccups? Do they know all the information? It is the same form; I wish we would have signed in and did it. It is completely done and saved. I just need to sign it; I couldn’t get DocuSign to sign it. 

* Lets look at this page, military service: I recall reading all of these. I don’t qualify for any of them

* How will they use the infomration: deny my service connected because I am not any of these occupations.

* Worried due to not having these: correct

* Why: Because a lot of the veterans that I have seen come through here are one of these qualifications.

* Has anyone told you that: No but when I first went through applying for benefits I went to the office in the hospital. what I told the gentlemen, I recalled they had me fill out a piece of paper and said no no no and said I wasn’t qualified and that’s it. the gentlemen on the phone said geesh Patrick I wish I knew who that was because he was wrong. Every person has the opportunity to apply with the va and they don’t need to be in the service. They can still fill it out but have a higher chance to be denied because they weren’t in the service but should have been able to fill it out. That is what deterred me from filling it out and that was in 2014-2016.

* DD214: I didn’t even see this; I just went to fill out the documents. Applying for the va and getting accepted. I have a document that they searched my history and I was in the Marine Corps from this date to this day and that is what I have been using. That is what I used for any progression in my career at the VA.

* Is that what you used: that is have I have used but not for this. I think I missed this part.

* Wasn’t clear you needed to upload: correct. I didn’t follow this path.

* Why: because I am stupid. No, I just didn’t realize that. I went to va.gov

* This one is for healthcare: Maybe that’s why, that was for benefits. I didn’t file this was for veteran benefits either. On this one I have received any va pay. At that time I wouldn’t have known what the percentage meant. Now I would probably have a rating of 40 percent which I think I have; I am not sure.

* Financial disclosure (reading page): I have a co-pay right now. I am not any of these, (reading page). Camp Lejeune I did go there, I am not sure the year but I could possibly claim that I was there for about 30 days. No it wasn’t 30 days it was 2 weeks. So I guess none of them.

* What would you do: I would click yes.

* Any questions on this page: questions in my mind, I will be denied because I don’t qualify for any of these. Unless I click on income thresholds and copayments. I would want to know the threshold for my income level. Right now I make a little over 50K. if they take in account my wife’s income since we are a two incoming household.

* Spouse information: No. they are requiring information about our household. They just want to know spouse information

* How will it be used: The income level and that’s about it.

* Dependents: no. We have dependents on the outside of the US but we support them fully. If it goes off of our income I would report them.

* Do you have clarity on what you would say: The question I have, does it have an impact on my income and copay. If it is on an income qualifying thing, then yes it would.

* Dependent information: this is her parents infomration. It would be other because it is a father in law and they don’t have an SSN because they aren’t in this country. I would leave it empty but it would turn red and require it to be filled. We sent 1000 a month to cover their taxes, food, healthcare. My wife and I support her parents. I would try to enter the information but if it required it I would go back and say no. In this case I don’t have a choice. I cant claim them on taxes because they don’t have a SNN, 12K a year is gone. So what’s next.

* Ever looked into getting around the SSN requirement: No. No they have only been out of the Philippines once. They have passports and we want them to come her next year but they are in their 80’s.

* Would you reach out: Yeah I would go to DBA. I would go backwards to the assistance at DBA with a number I can call.

* Where would you go: I would go back about 3-4 pages there was a number

* Continue on this page: That’s about it, we have 2 dependents and that covers both of them. In that case I don’t know if I would pout another but if I did I would just put 0 for the next person. It is asking for the SSN so I would just go back and suffer the loss. I got lost now. I wouldn’t put a fake SSN. I would click no for dependents.

* Annual income: (reading Page) That is my wife and I for veteran gross income.

* What do you think: It says you and your spouse so I would put both of our incomes which is 97K. Veteran income from business 0, additional income, I sometimes drive for uber but not now so 0. It is now asking for spouses so I would go back and change it and add hers. She will make more than me soon because she just changed jobs.

* Thoughts: No, it is straightforward. It is asking for mine and hers.

* Previous calendar deductibles: (reading page), At this point I would stop and ask for help from my tax person.

* What are you thinking: I would fold it and say Jesus Christ why do they need all of this. Knowing what I know now if I would have known if brand new. They would just look at my tax records and working here a few years ago we use to have them fill out a form. Now the va just goes by our tax records, they know exactly how much me and my wife make so why am I filling this out. Why not as a new person applying give them access to my tax records.

* How: it would be a signed agreement for them to have my tax records 3 years back.

* When you get to this page: I would not be putting it in correct. I don’t do my taxes, for this exact question, amount spouse paid. I have a guess.

* What would you do: The numbers would not be correct.

* Fill it out but unsure: Yes, it would not be correct. Burial is easy, 0.

* Prevents the completion: No.  I would almost go by my FASFA or her healthcare savings plan. I might put that amount in there, I think it is 2k and mine is 2k as well for copayments and all that stuff.

* How could it be improved: Give the option of the veteran to relinquish tax records for the past 3 years or the option of manually filling it out. That would be a good thing because all of that infomration is on your taxes. We sit for a few hours the day before and our tax person said we did it well and we went to the same person and we filled it out as we thought then he filled it out and we got a refund. It wasn’t as big but it was okay. Me as a veteran , I would rather provide my tax records. I am not a millionaire so its not a big deal. They need to know my finances so they know to charge co-pays.  Why is it telling me no. Did I fill it in incorrectly. Nope, its still wrong. I don’t know what I am doing wrong. Yupp. Okay. Why didn’t it ask for my amount it only asked for my spouse.

* Go back, only asks for spouse: Yes. Oh, wait maybe it should say you and your spouse. Instead of you or your spouse. Since that question was in my head, I would just combined ours. Let’s say 4k then. I would think that was my and my spouse. I thought maybe it would then go to me. I only read that because you prompted me. I wouldn’t have seen the or part. But if I read it they should have and no or. I don’t know what that means with or. To me I think it means me and my spouse.

* Insurance infomration: (reading pages) I have just now obtained private insurance of this year. I am filling this out as a brand new like 14 years ago. 

* VA facility: I would click I am enrolling; I recognize the statement after reading the drop down. Oh it is individual so. The only reason I know this is because I work at the va so I would click this one. Looking at them all I would look for San Diego and I don’t see it here. I wouldn’t want to travel to the others and I don’t see the Leola which is closest to my house.

* What would you do: I would pick VA san Diego healthcare. I am bias because I know it covers all of them.

* If really not sure what would you do: I would make a call to that guy. Or click find va facility locator. I would be concerned about at my age because I am thinking of retiring in the Philippines so I would be interested in the foreign healthcare through the va. And veterans living abord I would look at those. Right now it would stay VA  San Diego.

* Thoughts: I would want to at this age review those things. I will go back and look at those after this session. I am curious about it.

* Review: Now  I would review everything. (reading Page).

* If you needed to change something what would you do: Dependents to report but it needs an SSN. It may not be much to someone but in this environment it prevents me and my wife from owning a home, we rent. It would be lovely to get out of it. that’s a 1000 a month that doesn’t get reported. That isn’t the VA’s fault it is the tax codes.

* To edit birthday: click edit and then save it. her birthday is wrong within the VA system. Veterans can get spouses vaccinated and my wife was vaccinated and I noticed her birthday was wrong.

* Next: reading the note. Click I have read and accept. Submit application.

* (After submission) What do you expect to happen next? We are back to the beginning and someone is knocking on my door. Well I would be contacted for my first appointment

* Thoughts on contact: No. just hopefully in a few weeks.

* Reach you by: Phone or email. Most likely phone.

**Post task questions - 10 minutes**

Wonderful! I have a few questions about your experience filling out this form.

**Overall**

* What did you think of the overall experience in completing this form? It didn’t ask me anything for my HealtheVet or inform me about that but being a new veteran I wouldn’t know anything about that.

* Positive or negative: the only negative thing is back to the dependent part which is a shame.

* Time it took: It was easy, it is basic thing getting to it. I think veterans today have more knowledge about this for young veterans. But older veterans sometimes done even touch a computer. They would need to have someone walk them through which they may call the number down here.

* Easy as in how: The flow was easy. It went very well. It asked the right questions and if something is wrong it prompts you to check it. at the end it is like amazon, it has you review then submit. I am sure a lot of veteran have used amazon so it ahs that flow.

* What was the hardest part of completing the form? No.

* If someone you knew was going to use this form to apply for VA Health Care, what advice would you give them? Read everything. I thought it was applying for a disability rating it is applying for first time healthcare benefits. The whole start is the process that someone my age may not do it correctly but someone that just got out would get to this easily.

**Wrap-up questions - 5 minutes**

* Do you have any other insight or thoughts in general about the VA Health Care application process? No.

* Do you have any questions for me before we conclude? I hope I accomplished what you were trying to get and I did it well enough.

**Thank you and Closing**

Well we really appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us today. Your feedback is so helpful to us as we continue to improve our products and services for Veterans and service members. Great, thank you so much again, and enjoy the rest of your day!

 

