**Conversation Guide: VSA Caregiver, Discovery Research for the 10-10EZ form**

*Start recording to the Cloud.*

* **I have started recording. I'd like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record my screen and audio as we talk today?" Yes.**

Great. Now we're really ready to begin!

**Warm-up Questions - 10 minutes**

* Tell me a little about yourself: I am a caregiver. My name is Allison I am a wife and caregiver to my husband Jeremy.  I have the paperwork but it is confusing, I am going to link up with my friend that was in for a long time and is really good with va stuff. I have the packet next to me and it’s like Ugg.

* How many years has he been since you left the service?  May 25th, 2012.

* Why applying at this point: He is 100 percent so he get SS as well and we have phased out form getting Medicare and we have special needs 5 year old and a baby born 2 months early. I needed his award letter and I was calling the va to see if they could help me. If you ever get locked out of my HealtheVet or ebenfits it is hard tog et it unlocked when the responses to questions are wrong. It is awful. We called and I was stressed because our kids are losing their insurance and our kids each do 6 different types of counseling. We went from Tricare to Medicaid so I don’t know how to adult. I don’t know how it will be financially if it is 30 dollars per session so is it 750 per kid. I am stressing about the amount we will need to pay for copays so they brought up CHAMPVA that will cover me and the kids.

* Completed and submitted: I have the paper version and it is daunting. That is as far as I have gotten. Dumb blonde over here.

* Did someone help: I have been trying it myself. I have done the whole process, applying for the caregiver program we are still waiting. His not legal caregiver but since he had a suicide attempt in 2012 and that’s why he was not allowed to reenlist so they phased him out within a month. Then 9 months later he tried again with a weapon and since then we have been being seen at the VA. He has seizures the February before the second attempt. He had a scary seizures in 2014 and the hospital, VA person said if I could not properly care for him they would put him in a nursing home. A social worker, I didn’t know they couldn’t technically do that. I have been his caregiver in the system since July 9th of 2013. He should have a home healthcare nurse from 2013 but they didn’t so I did his feed tubes and everything. Doing that, playing toss the support, my mom, brother, and best friend while I worked sat with him while I was at work PT. After January of 2015 we realized I couldn’t work there was no way. In the past 3 years it has gotten worse and he ahs a TBI and its gotten worse and can only see out of 1 eye and that’s not that great either.

**Health Care application introduction page - 10 minutes**

* Please read the entire page and let me know if any questions come to mind: Normally I would sign in.

* After participant reads and initial questions are noted:

    * What do you think of the listed requirements? Anything I wouldn’t have on hand. My husband does not like to share his dd214 on the internet it makes him very uncomfortable. He feels like that is the most intimate aspect, it has the SSN, his not battle wounds but, he had an honorable discharge its just very private for him. The baby just found his voice.

**Applying for healthcare benefits task - 25 minutes**

Go ahead and continue as if you were applying for healthcare.

Things to watch for:

In general, we want to sit back and watch them, but if they hesitate you can say "I noticed you hesitate here, what are you thinking?"

If they need an SSN, use 548-79-5555

* Remind participants to think out loud: This is me not him. I will use my ex-husbands SSN. I guess it doesn’t like that name. What am I missing for it not to go forward. There we go. That was a long pause.

* Veteran infomration: Arizona is just going to be the fun. Sorry I think I am funny now. nowayjose@gmail.com

* Military service: That’s legit.

* You know it off the top of your head: yes, a lot. For his disability compensation, I have to know all of this. OIF, OEF, so I have to know all of those as well.

* Thoughts: I mean I know why they are asking; I assume it is asking about the dates for agent orange. I don’t know why it matters unless they will use it to disqualify someone. I know if Jeremy were at camp Lejeune he would be like why do you want to know if it for healthcare. He is naturally distrusting.

* Why: About sharing about his health or military stuff. He did three tours to Iraq and had Facebook them so he posted pictures of him and his dd214 says he was deployed twice and the picture isn’t enough and he can’t remember the names. One person he did remember died.

* What would you do: I would look and see if any of it was relevant. Even though he wasn’t discharged for that he wants allowed to reenlist because it so I would select that. Well maybe not. The discharge, I guess either way you would do the discharge papers

* More information to be helpful: on this page right now. As me or as him. He would want to know why it is being asked. For me I would want if you were, well there’s the burn pit so I would want that included. He has neurology stuff and he was exposed to something that has caused that. I feel like that should be included if you are going for a full picture and that’s what this picture is for so the burn pits here like were you in Iraq at this time.

* Want to know how it is used and a complete list: yes.

* Discharge papers: some people may not want to upload it here. I would go and let them make a copy but I don’t want it uploaded to the computer. He would show them and let them make a copy in person but not upload it on the internet.

* Have you done over va forms online that you needed to upload: We do a lot of paper stuff because his distrust. With DAV we did it in person and they said we could do it online but he said no.

* Financial disclosure: sorry I have to read this. (reading page) Oh now that makes sense. Sorry my brain is like.

* What did you refer to: we get reimbursement for travel and I dint realize not all veterans get that. I just didn’t realize. I guess I skipped over, when looking at the qualifying factors my eyes didn’t even notice, I saw purple heart and prisoner of war then skip to camp Lejeune. I didn’t realize if it asked Medicare benefits or any of that. So I don’t want to provide it.

* Do you remember if you included it on the paper form: Let me look in the envelope. I know it asked if the kids were on Medicaid and it asked for their number. So on the application for CHAMP VA benefits, it asked what type of insurance we had and I marked that but on the paperwork from the va it does not ask what my income is. 

* Moving husband from Medicaid to va: no Medicaid said he is not eligible because he is eligible for veteran benefits so he is not. We can Medicare type something but there’s no sense in paying for it when he only goes to the va.

* Spouse: it is habit putting my birthday.

* Paper form number: it is 1010D.

* Dependents: They did get me. Oh now I have to do it again. I screwed that up, hold on.

* Thoughts: oh I need to change the date, maybe that’s what it is. No. expenses for college.  I screwed something up because it wont make this go away for expenses for college. (reading page)

* Annual income: Okay. That is easy.

* You knew that off the top of your head: Well so that yes because it was one place I paid but most of my friends who’s husbands are veterans would need to sit and add it up. I didn’t pay for a dependent but a brother in law (burial)

* VA facility: I forgot were doing pretend stuff. Start at the bottom it might be easier. There we go. It is the va hospital. Just so you know in temple they have the more than one. Without seeing temple hospital I would think they screwed up with that but there’s a temple clinic. I am looking for a temple hospital, it is a hospital not a clinic. I would have to put that even if its not right. I would do that but not confident in that. I would select it but I feel like it is wrong.

* If you want help what would you do: I touched feedback but that’s not what I wanted to do. Maybe if I close out paw patrol.

* What happens if you push back: it doesn’t do anything I will refresh.

 

**Post task questions - 10 minutes**

Wonderful! I have a few questions about your experience filling out this form.

**Overall**

* Time and easy: besides not being able to go back it seemed pretty good.

* What after submitting: I would expect something to happen in the next 18 months. 18 months feels to be the normal for the va but nothing before 6 months. Nothing is done quick fast and in a hurry.

* How prepared: the questions, the box I kept making comments about not knowing it was asking those. If I wouldn’t have fille doubt as many forms for disability, most spouses don’t know unless with their significant others since the start. They might not know the start and end date. If I didn’t do it before I wouldn’t have been confident.

* If someone you knew was going to use this form to apply for VA Health Care, what advice would you give them? Get the ded214 and know if they had any significant things likes post deployment screenings or something that might need to be on the form. My husband got out in 2012 and its 21 now so that’s 9 years ago. If I weren’t with him when he is in and he has a tbi so he doesn’t remember it all. It may be hard for the spouse to know what to look for and know where to find it. if they have a purple heart tell them it is in the dd214. Maybe a little drop down of where the things are located. I know where it is, I was married before to a solider since 2001 so I know how to look at the forms but it can still be confusing.

* Overall experience with va health: they drop the ball a lot. When he turned the gun on himself, they were supposed to provide home health and they never showed up. They wouldn’t talk to me either because at the time I wasn’t his wife. He got a blood clot and they wouldn’t do anything, they wouldn’t send me anyone and I had to take him to the regular hospital then trying to get the blood thinners, they said it wasn’t the va doctors prescriptions and I was shrinking I was going to call the new that they are going to kill a 21 year old veteran. I have had help form patient advocate

* Resources: This form I guess would go to the VA, this girl is magic she breaks it down to dumb blonde words but with covid they don’t do all in person appointments and he doesn’t like discussing his information.

 

**Wrap-up questions - 5 minutes**

* Any other thoughts about the form? Will you have an alternative place for people that aren’t comfortable to have their information scanned in person. I am not tech savvy as you can tell, is the website super encrypted and safe. If it is maybe putting on here it is a secure server. Maybe it would give people like honey over here a better feeling of security and if they aren’t comfortable maybe the place you go to get unlocked with my HealtheVet, they could upload the DD214 portion. Or it could be part of benefits, then able to send a subcategory to include it for insurance or whatever, have an option when you login.

* How long until he could go to the va: He was 20 percent when he got out so he could go but he did not go expect his initial. After he tried to kill himself it was hard to get him an appointment because he wasn’t at temple before. He is the only one with va healthcare right now. Now appointments are faster. I meant 18 months is how long the VA takes to do something like for the caregivers program I wouldn’t expect to hear anything for 18 months. It took 18 months for them to look at the PTSD papers so I assume it takes a really long time.

**Thank you and Closing**

Well we really appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us today. Your feedback is so helpful to us as we continue to improve our products and services for Veterans and service members. Great, thank you so much again, and enjoy the rest of your day

 

