**Conversation Guide: VSA Caregiver, Discovery Research for the 10-10EZ form**

*Start recording to the Cloud.*

* **I have started recording. I'd like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record my screen and audio as we talk today?" That is okay today.**

Great. Now we're really ready to begin!

**Warm-up Questions - 10 minutes**

* Tell me a little about yourself: I am retired army, married living in Newport RI. I did 28 years, 100 percent disabled with the VA.

* How many years has it been since you left the service? I retired in 1996.

* Tell me a little bit about how you chose this healthcare option? Mainly through private providers and use the va. I use the va for any meds, dental care. Normally since I have the insurance I use my private providers.

* What for the va: Dental is covered because I am 100 percent, the neurologist at the va. I have spinal code demand. I live in pain.

**Health Care application introduction page - 10 minutes**

* Please read the entire page and let me know if any questions come to mind: Yupp that’s there. I can’t say I have seen it recently; it looks familiar but I cant say I’ve seen it recently. Okay so far it is straightforward.

* After participant reads and initial questions are noted:

    * Is there anything that you would not have on-hand or would need to prepare before starting this application? No, I would have my discharge papers and SSN. The most recent tax return I am not sure why they need it I don’t know how they use it I have no idea.

    * Where to start: You can click sign in for right here without signing in.

**Applying for healthcare benefits task - 25 minutes**

Go ahead and continue as if you were applying for healthcare.

Things to watch for:

In general, we want to sit back and watch them, but if they hesitate you can say "I noticed you hesitate here, what are you thinking?" okay continue to the application. I am not sure what it is doing here unless it wants dashes.

What do you mean: basically it looks like I clicked continue and the first thing I saw was required here and here. That leaves me to believe we left something out. I just it wasn’t place of birth.

Veteran information: I will continue. The only thing that bothers me is that I clicked counite, it brings up the blank screen and the red areas are required, it leads me to believe I left something off even though I may not have.

Tell me more: maybe because it isn’t providing feedback it just pops up the screen. Maybe say at the next screen it will ask for city, address. It is misleading me; I normally figure it out and go through but sometimes to quick and make mistakes. I like to speed through thinks.

Likes confirmation: not every box  but maybe each screen. I am not sure how to explain it but it seems like I am missing something. I would click it is the home address is the same. Continue. It is the red area through me off maybe.

Do you remember how you first applied: it wasn’t online for sure; it was awhile back I probably went to a va facility. 

Service information: I know this infomration, only because I have been dealing with it so much. Some other people, I have a friend with mental health issues and I try to help them. As hard as he tries he cant do it so I help him.  I reverse a lot when I type do to dyslexia.  

You help your friend, where do you get his information: I have a copy of his dd214.  It’s actually sitting on my table right now to help him out.

Service experience: I am just reading each one of them. That is straight forward.

How will they use the information: I think different areas that Americans have served in, agent orange, I have some effects, my brother more server. I know Camp Lejeune had water issues and my friend is 100 percent due to the cancer. Different time periods and service eras can present different problem.

Service infomration: that is straight forward for me. It is straightforward to me but for others it might not be but for me it is.

Va benefits: I will click here, that is straight forward.

Financial disclosure: I see why they were asking for financial infomration because some have copays or income factors so that is what they are looking for here. I wouldn’t provide it because I am 100 percent anyways. Qualifying  factors, yeah normally I wouldn’t provide it.

Spouse: That was odd, I guess it knows you are putting in a fake number. No I know how or what they use it for so I don’t have any questions on that. I don’t have any dependents besides my wife. I am not sure what they are asking. I just put in my wife’s infomration beside I already added my wife.

Cant you tell me more: I wonder if they are asking for my wife or any other people here. I would put no there. 

Annual income: I am retired no so no income. That’s a 0. No business. They do ask a lot there; I never saw farm there.

Thoughts: I don’t think anything about it but I never saw net income from farm or business. I am just putting things in here.

Are you using anything that changes your screen: Not right now.

 Insurance infomration:  I would put yes here because I have Tricare for life. Okay policy number. Continue.

Va facility: I am not sure I should click it, its not the reason I am applying, some might enroll to do that. I don’t even know if it is still required.

Where would you get information: learn more, yeah exactly. I get a statement from the va that I meet the requirements. I guess I wouldn’t click that because I am not enrolling for that. Middletown is my clinic right down the block and providence is the hospital. First time I am doing it I would want them the schedule the first one.

 

Review: now we are just reviewing it. I have seen this, it may not eb the va but they summarize what you put in and you can fix the mistake.

Would you check it still: I probably wouldn’t. it depends on what I am doing, I guess this is important and I should check it. if I don’t think it is important I wouldn’t check it. yeah this is just summarizing it. I have read and accept the policy; they won’t use my information other than what they need it for so click submit application.

 

* (After submission) What do you expect to happen next? The last thing I was doing was request they schedule it or if they had issues with my service information, if it is incorrect or have issues with what I submitted they would tell me. With eh va timelines are hard to say, medical benefits for the first time I would say within a month or so.

* Hardest part: it wasn’t hard. The only issue I had was going form screen to screen. The red area, I thought I didn’t enter it correctly but I did.

* What worked well: I was going to say no but it worked fine. As long as we are accomplishing what I want to, I didn’t think it was tedious, the first time signing up they need information and we provided that here

* Anything you wanted to know before or during: I may not have had the infomration like my taxes if they needed that. Anything with the va you should have your dd214 there but some veterans may not. I did not see an area to save then go back and complete

* Would you use it: if I didn’t have everything informant of me. Other applications have save for later. My private hospital with testing on my spine I start filling it out then need to do it later so they have the button on the bottom. That might be something you need here.

* Have your received reminders: Yeah I have received reminders on different things awhile back. It tells me to sign back in to complete. If you get your covid vaccination, I did 2 months ago then the monitoring for it. every once in while don’t forget to sign in and complete your weekly/monthly check. It is text for me, I signed up for it. I got the last one on Friday.

**Post task questions - 10 minutes**

Wonderful! I have a few questions about your experience filling out this form.

* If someone you knew was going to use this form to apply for VA Health Care, what advice would you give them? Just to have all your ducks in a row, dd214, medical information, a lot of the times with the va some private medical records, service information. Things like that. I have a general idea since going through it.

* Thoughts: no I think they do a great job. I don’t use it exclusive because I have health insurance. I left teaching in 2006 and I did not have health insurance so I used it for that year. I see my primary care once a year but they do a good job. No complaints there.

**Wrap-up questions - 5 minutes**

* Any other thoughts about the form?

* Do you have any other insight or thoughts in general about the VA Health Care application process?

* Do you have any questions for me before we conclude? I think you are doing a good job and putting out online applications for use. You need them tested. I have been using computers in 79 and I am comfortable on the computer. Some are not, like my friend would not be able to use it. there are different comfortable levels with technology like I get health information alerts to va. I let the va know I got my covid shot and they went and updated my information. I am good with technology. I think veterans with different services with the va, they are at different levels of comfortable with technology so make it geared for the lower level; and straight forward.

* From participant: how long does it take to be rolled out.  

* Computer or phone: computer right now. I love my iPhone. Some applications are perfect and straightforward but others it’s a different story. If the app is set up to do it on the phone it works great but somethings I don’t like doing on a phone.

* If filling it out and didn’t understand, what resources needed: I am looking at it now and it says to call the tool free number.

**Thank you and Closing**

Well we really appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us today. Your feedback is so helpful to us as we continue to improve our products and services for Veterans and service members. Great, thank you so much again, and enjoy the rest of your day

 

