**Conversation Guide: VSA Caregiver, Discovery Research for the 10-10EZ form**

*Start recording to the Cloud.*

* **I have started recording. I'd like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record my screen and audio as we talk today?" Yes it is.**

Great. Now we're really ready to begin!

**Warm-up Questions - 10 minutes**

* Tell me a little about yourself:  Fully name is Irvington James Ray. I was in active army, reserve army and nation guard. 2 tours to Iraq. The first time active duty, second time with national guard. Total time was 13 years 7 months and 13 days. I was medically discharged, its been since January of 2014. Technically medically retired.

* Healthcare: all done by the va.

* Since you retired: yes. It was a tough start at the beginning to find the doctors, building the doctor patient bound. From a neurology standpoint he went above and beyond. My second primary care doctor was good doctor as well. Not taking anything away from the others but the bound was good.

* Process: I want to say it was like 2012-2013 timeframe. Its been a minute. Let me ask this, when talking about health care for me. It was a rocky start and I only say that because it was one of those thank you for your service . you have issues and cant stay in, there wasn’t anyone to help me or guide me on what to do for healthcare, dental, vision

* How did you do it: I have been dealing with them for 13 years so you have to have patience. If you go in there with that mindset it makes it easier but I still get frustrated. We have used online for our kids, actually it was 2 weeks ago we had to do an over the phone interview. It is hard but they can’t physically see it. only a diagnosis off of a guess or what I am telling you.

* Like this: no it was a telehealth for my kids.

**Health Care application introduction page - 10 minutes**

* Please read the entire page and let me know if any questions come to mind: That’s one of the things I had an issue with, when you’re doing this you have to do it on ebenefits. Now they are switching it to va.gov. will this work better with va.gov or ebenefits. I would just start the application; I am just going through. (reading page) Me, I would just start eh application. I was already in the system to go form the military to va, so why would I need to switch over but now I know it is two different department. Some veterans get irritated with because everything we need here is what the military ahs so it should be easy to switch over.

**Applying for healthcare benefits task - 25 minutes**

Go ahead and continue as if you were applying for healthcare.

Things to watch for:

In general, we want to sit back and watch them, but if they hesitate you can say "I noticed you hesitate here, what are you thinking?"

If they need an SSN, use 548-79-5555

Veteran infomration: The arrow there, each time I click 7 it brings up the arrows. Oh, okay there we go. No thoughts on that page. I mean, for me I guess I have done it so much I am used to the same continuous questions as SSN , mothers maiden name. when we did it with the maiden name it saved it for use and it was easier to fill out.

Hesitation or question: it was just, when I have to fill out marriage and gender, it is all those, what is the purpose if we are married for but if we were married they will as if the spouse is insurance. That’s the only thing because if we are on our spouses insurance they will say you don’t need it because you are on theirs. However our injuries or disability was military related I feel like the military should be the ones liable for it.

How it block or create a feeling: I don’t know. I guess the first time going through this I would fill it out. For myself I have MS, I have to get infusion shots every 6 months, they are at least 80-90K a year so if I am on my wife’s insurance they wouldn’t cover the medication I need whereas I know the va will cover it. I would probably put not married so I get the services I need from the va. I have heard that, I was like that’s wrong, some veterans were denied due to that. Or if they were working and made to much money they made to much to qualify.

Service information: Like everything I am doing here is what you would have to do. It is repetitive. Like military service, the va should already have that from when we got out earlier. (reading page) On this one I think there are to many unnecessarily  ones. Like exposure to radioiron while in the military, received nose through radium treatment. Those to me are more like a disability you are trying to apply for. Those are in the wrong category, its with purple heart, POQ, discharge. Maybe discharge or retire , they just don’t belong here that’s just my thought. I think this is more combat and awards type. Those two should be in the disabilities that would like to be seen for, the one of exposure to radiation and the one below that one.

How do they use it: for this one it is breaking down when you were in the military and they type of disability you have. Like in Vietnam they have different type of injuries then the gulf war veterans or IOF, Each have different disabilities. Vietnam was more agent orange and the other was the gulf war syndrome.

Fair to say they will help the veteran get certain benefits: depending on when they served yes.

Thoughts: the one I checked served in combat the art, I thought it would say after 9/11 because that is what is normally there. I guess you can leave it because it happened in 2001. The only other thing is if they put in certain Vietnam, southwest Asia, they need to put in IOF.

Discharge: I like this part here now, when I was doing it I had to mail them in or fax them in. this right here really helps veterans out. (/10 we should already have our dd214 so if we have that we could upload it right there and know for a facto it was down compared to when I did it, it was a fax or mailed in and had to wait for them to do it. it is more convenient for us.

Would you have that available to you: Yes. Yes on the phone and if you saved it. I have had to do it before so I have it on my phone. If I needed to me should be able to upload the document. I figured it would work that way. It makes it easier and less time consuming.

VA benefits: No. it is self-explanatory. If you have a disability and the rating. Of course if this is my first time I would click I don’t get va pay.

Financial disclosure: (reading page) I know for this one some veterans going back to two screens ago asking if we were on spouses insurance we might feel like we don’t qualify. I think a lot of veterans would say no but if we say no the repercussions, you don’t want to help us out. Is it really that important though

Why initial reaction: Why you being nosey in out business. They weren’t nosey when I was going in so why are you being nosey for when I am asking for healthcare. For me it is them being to business

If you fill it out: The first time I would put no because why do they want to know my finances.

Would anything help like an explanation of why: Yes. Is it okay if I click on learn more before I jump the gun. I want to say it is cut off for all of us. I mean for me I would say no.

Spouse: (reading page) I remember numbers very well like anniversaries. No questions or thoughts. Well I guess did your spouse live with you last year. I guess in a normal if I am married then yes.  If they didn’t then what if I say no. I am used to spouses, or divorced, what’s the purpose of that question. That one at the bottom, same address as spouse. If we are married we would have the same address unless dual military.

would you want to know why its asked: Yes , to me this is for me. I am asking for this, why do they need to know spouse infomration, they aren’t applying for services its me.

Dependents: To me anyone under the age of 18 that depends on me.

If you had an elderly parent, would they be a dependent: yes. I think that question, when did they become your dependents. The only way that would be effected if you adopted them. If I am saying its my son, maybe if I click on stepson, then it should popup but if I click my son then it wouldn’t change. They became my dependent the day they were born. Depending in college, what would I put, they didn’t go to college but they go to school. They will be 14 he isn’t in those ages but went to school. Maybe they should put did your dependent go to public or private school last year, then when you put in the birth month , the grade school and fi they over that age then if they are 18-23 did they go to trad school or college last calendar year. I guess I put no because of the age.

Annual income: (reading page) I understand why it is asking about the veteran but why are they asking about the spouse. I guess to categorize the different financial aspects of the veteran. I have been in a while; some veterans income is good and they could afford to pay for healthcare services compared to some that don’t have the income and need the free services. For me if we served then we should all be given the same thing. Going on this on, the dependents income, why is that needed. Especially if they are in school. Why is that even being asked, I understand if they are over the age.

Deductible income expenses: They are asking again finances. I guess once again it is more like why are you worried about my finances when applying for healthcare.

Would it stop you: Probably so. To me it is us going away from the application process, I feel like I am applying for a loan. My younger self would have stopped and asked why is the finance questions coming up.

Would you reach out for help or understanding: Myself now I would but back in the day no I wouldn’t. This question here for learn more about Medicaid should be here. It is important because they don’t pay for everything so the va would probably cover the remaining part.

VA facility: Okay they do have the find locations. I knew where mine was but if they are new to it they might not know where a clinic is so they have a find va facility. That can help them if it is there first time.

Review: this here is an overview so you can check.

Seen this before: Yes.

Where: I want to say it is the same for when I filled out for benefits. I was like at least they give us the page to review before turning it in. I wanted to look at this one. I think it was household information, Okay here it is, if your dependents did they go to school, I put yes here but the other two I put no. I am happy about this page because it allows me to go back and change it if needed. There’s an edit.

* (After submission) What do you expect to happen next?

**Post task questions - 10 minutes**

Wonderful! I have a few questions about your experience filling out this form.

**Overall**

* What did you think of the overall experience in completing this form? It was some unneeded questions, overall it was easy to walk yourself through on top of I didn’t see if there was a spot you can save and continue  later.

* Used in the past: yes.

* Just go back or get reminders: I don’t remember any reminders. I know from the va side, it tells us we have a year to finish applying for the disability application. It would be nice to get a reminder where we can get a text, you started an application please finish the application.

**Wrap-up questions - 5 minutes**

* Do you have any questions for me before we conclude? No.

**Thank you and Closing**

Well we really appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us today. Your feedback is so helpful to us as we continue to improve our products and services for Veterans and service members. Great, thank you so much again, and enjoy the rest of your day

 

