# P1, Logged-in IA and Nav Wayfinding

- 3/30, 10am
- Veteran and caregiver in session


**Moderator:** I understand you are a veteran and you have some services through the VA which includes disability benefits, health benefits and memorial benefits. Is that accurate:

**P1:** Correct

**Moderator:**Are there any other benefits or services you receive?

**P1:** Uh
**P1 caregiver:** I mean the visual assistance and medical
**P1:** that’s through the VA. And I get the [inaudible] from the pain clinic. I do some community care where the VA doesn’t provide it but I go outside. They keep changing them name

**P1 caregiver:**Yes, I’m familiar with that. I remember when they changed it a couple of yers ago.  Ok, so thinking about your health benefits and disability benefits. Do you manage or access those benefits online at all?

**P1 caregiver:**Like your prescriptions?
**P1:**Yes, prescriptions and all that we do on My HealtheVet. 

**P1 caregiver:**And you check in for your benefit updates.
**P1:**Yes, I check in for my benefit updates.

**Moderator:**Can you tell me more about that? What does benefit updates mean?

**P1:**I got a claim, and I go to DoD to check the status.

**Moderator:**Oh I see, So you have a claim and you go to check on the status.

**P1:**Yeah, and I’m glad they changed it so I don’t have to go look for the two dancing bears and all that *laughs*

You’re talking about the security login?

- uses website for prescriptions. How do you do that?

“I go to DoD and it redirects me to VA.gov. I go to the DOD and there it gives you options about which one to log in.”


“I normally log in around 8:00 [at night] because then the thing doesn’t go around and around and around for an hour. If you try to get into the DoD site in the daytime, forget it.”

*caregiver:* It’s very busy in the daytime.

Moderator: Do you ever log into the website and help with that?

*caregiver:* Sometimes I’m with him as we go through it. He’s had this claim in for quite some time. And we realize that he has some disability that he’s getting compensation for. They reviewed one part of it but passed another part of it to another judge, so we’re going around and around and around.

That’s really helpful. As we’re talking today, please feel free to chime in.

One thing that I’ve always told him that he needs to tel you when he’s doing one of these surveys is about entering in for Travel benefits. It’s starting to get better but for the past year, it’s been unbelievable. And I mean, you really have to be a computer wiz to upload a travel letter. He says he goes to a provider outside of the VA and he does for his back. But trying to get that letter, that he went to the appt, upload it so he can get travel benefits for it, is almost impossible.

I couldn’t do it. You’ve got to go around the page so much. I have to have it big enough that I lose it.

*moderator gives prompts for next steps, checking the status of a claim*

I go to my internet (opens explorer); *struggles to use browser controls because of zoom screen sharing*

Participant browses through eBenefits to VA.gov to get to track claim page (see Mural board for paths)


Moderator: I’m curious to see how you would get to this page if you tried to find it from within VA.gov. *guides participant to homepage of VA.gov*

Clicks on VA Benefits and Health Care *hesitates, read through list*

P1:I think I’d probably go through disability *clicks disability link, opens secondary menu, reads through links*

P1: Manage claims, 

Caregiver: oh that second link right there Check your claim or appeal status *clicks link*

P1: Oh, it goes right there

Caregiver: It goes right there.

How was that experience for you, navigating to the page that way?

P1: It was a whole lot easier.

What was easier about it?

You didn’t have to go through all those steps, and log in

From site to site

From site to site and all that. It was just a couple of clicks and there you were.

Ok, that’s helpful. Let’s try travel benefits. Can you show me how you’d go about doing that? Where do you normally go for that

Caregiver:  OK, usually, can he X out of these so he doesn’t have so many tabs open?

P1: you’ve got to go to a different place

Caregiver and Participant switch seats, Caregiver is navigating

The site, I can’t remember exactly what it is’, it’s e-a-u-t-h-v-a.gov
 *Goes to access va sign in page, moderator guides back to VA.gov*

*Hovers over all menu items, in header, eventually chooses VA Health and Benefits > Service member benefits*

> Because travel is a benefit

*Reviews service member benefits page, does not see travel link*

Maybe I should go back.
*Returns to claim status page, mouses over all options in navigation before eventually choosing VA Benefits and health care*

If you look at this list, there is nothing there that says travel or reimbursement. And if you go to service member benefits, there isn’t anything there that says anything about it.

Chooses My HealtheVet, redirected to website

“I’m curious at this point, not finding the travel reimbursement so far, what else might you try to find information about that?

“On this? What if you tried the search”

*Clicks search and types travel benefits into search*

Doing that, you come up with a screen and it has VA travel pay reimbursement, and beenficiary travel and services. *Mouses over BTSSS link* that’s the one that I said, that I tried to go to. This is where you end up. 

OK, and I do think we have time for that, and we’ll return to that in the end. Can you tell me a bit about your thoughts in finding this information on this website?

*Caregiver*: Well, I mean if I knew that it was there, it looks like it would be less steps to find that because if we could set it up and after you do it a couple of times and have it set up under VA.gov

But on ebenefits if they had the travel, you wouldn’t even have to go to the search box. A lot of guys I know, they would never think of going to the search box. They probably don’t even know there is one.

If your caregiver wasn’t there, and looked at the search box, do you think you would’ve looked there?

Probably, eventually, if I could’ve found it.

See, usually, for him, 

You’re not seeing how large the screen is are ya?

No, we’re seeing it at a probably normal size.

That goes back tot he same thing. Over on the left side, is where all the stuff is. And the search box is waaaay over on the right side.

And way up.

Unless I really search around for it, I don’t know.

Caregiver: I don’t know if you can do this to your own screen, but he has 4, 5, 6, 7x the magnification. That’s how much he sees on the screen. So, that’s what makes it difficult. When they have so much on one screen, and so many different areas to look at. Where, with him, because of his vision loss, if all the choices were on one side of the screen, like on the far left hand side of the screen, and you just went there, and even search could be one of the choices. But it would just list all the choices for that site, and you either found it or clicked on the search one, and click on search and find what you want. But moving all over the screen, it’s difficult for him.

I can imagine. It sounds like there would be some guesswork involved and just going from side to side to find out what might or might not be over there.

P1: Yeah, sometimes you just end up stumbling on it.

When you describe, if everything was on the left side, I’mc curious what your ideal might be. Would it be a list of links? Or bulleted lists? Or does it matter?

P1: It wouldn’t matter as long as, like over here, on the right side, you’ve got search, contact us, and his account information, and then My VA and My HealtheVet - put it all over on the left side in a column. That would be my favorite thing.

Caregiver: And even these things along here, where it says VA Benefits and Health cCare, and about VA, and find a VA location, Search, contact us, charlies account, my va, my healevet, if all of that had been in one column, that was all listed, instead of spread across the page and 2 or 3 different lines, 

P1: that would make it a lot easier for me.

There’s one other piece of this menu that I’m curious to get your feedback on. And I’ll give you one more task to try. Can you show me how you would double check any dependents you have on file with VA.  I don’t have any dependents.

Well you have me.

Yeah her, She’s dependent on me all the time.

*Clicks VA Benefits and health care menu, clicks Family Member Benefits*

It’d have to be under Family Member benefits, that’s a dependent. Huh, I’ve never looked at that. She’s taken some courses on how to be a caregiver, but we can never figure out how to get her to be….

Caregvier: *reading* Benefits for spouses, dependents, and survivors, huh

*Moderator explains they can return here to learn about the caregiver program*

IF you go to the benefits for spouses, dependents and survivors, *clicks*, oh that doesn’t say anything about dependents. I should go back. *Uses browser back button*

There’s that search box over there.

Yeah *clicks search and types “number of dependents”*

What are you thinking as you look through here?

Caregiver: I’m the one who keyed that in, *reads search results* I’m on there as his only dependent, so I don’t know. We don’t have any children. So, I don’t know.  Ask me the question again that you originally asked?

Show me how you would double check any dependents that you have on file with VA.

Well I guess we failed, because I don’t know how we’d check that. 

You didn’t fail, it’s a failure of the website. It’s not very straightforward to find it. If you can’t find something on the website, what do you do?

Many times when I can’t find something, I’ll use secure messaging or call my VIST coordinator. He’s good on the computer and he’ll point me in the right direction.

That’s helpful.  The second to last thing that I’m curious for you to show me is “imagine that you wanted to learn about any options for VA to pay for you or your family members to take college course” how would you do that.

*Uses back button, then goes to mega menu*

I think it would be under Education and Training, *clicks, reads links aloud*

The GI Benefits, you start with the GI Bill.

You know what, before you click on anything there, I’m curious to know what it’s like to navigate this menu with your magnification that you’re using?

*Caregivier and participant switches seat to P1 can drive*

P1: It looks like you have *Mouses over* one, two , three, four columns, But I can only see 2 on the screen at a time. And then to get this one, manage your benefits and the comparison tool, I have to move my magnifier over. And I know some guys who could only see one column and a time. And I’d have to have it a little bigger than this for it to be comfortable to read.

Moderator: How does it help or hurt your experience of looking at this menu, to have to go side to side?

P1: Something like this, I’d really look at the whole thing. Just on my own I’d think, there’s Gotta be more than one thing. I would definitely look, I know there’s more move the cursor around to look for more. 

*Inaudible*

*Caregiver:* That really is a good way for him to look at things. He’d start at the first column to the left where it starts with VA Benefits and Health care. And it’s easy to go down that and try to find, that’s where it’d be nice of travel reimbursement was there. But you can go to education and training, and you’re reading left to right, and it’s logical. It’s like you were looking at an actual page of paper. You can see that. And like he said, when it has columns like that, it’s easier for him to go across and find what all the columns are.

Moderator: Let’s go back tot he question I asked, *repeats question to find education info*

P1: I’d probably start with how to apply, which is in the second column over. How to apply for the GI bill and related benefits

Caregiver: go up to the top, ok.

P1: well, there’s get benefits *reading down the list of links on the left* *hesitates, reading* Probably have to start with eligibility to see if you’re eligible to start with. *Clicks link and starts reading content aloud. Scrolls down page*

Caregiver: he could have his computer read that to him again. He just clicks on that, and 

P1: *clicks and activates Zoom Text Fusion* I can do that and have it read it to me

Do you use that feature regularly?

Yeah, I use it a lot. 

Ok. What do you make of this information that you’re seeing here on the page?

P1: Well, I’m sure I could find it in here if I want to, *scrolls* now I’m down to the all of these must be true before you can get your benefits. You have to go down through that to make sure.

M: Got it, that makes sense.

P1: then you get down to how to apply *continues scrolling*

Caregiver: I guess I didn’t realize that spouses are eligible for education benefits

P1: *discusses possibility of her being eligible*

M: OK, well I will pause you there. Those are all the things I wanted you to show me on this website. I really appreciate you sharing all of this from me.

M: What are other sites you use a username and password to log into?

P1: Other websites? We’ve got a whole book of them. I don’t know, when I try to log in I put remember me so I don’t have to use a password.

M: Do you ever log into a banking website or something like that?

Caregiver: He doesn’t, I do. I do all of the banking online.  

M: Well, let’s use that as an example. When you log into a banking website, what do you expect to change on the website from when you are logged in vs when you are not logged in?

Caregiver: What do I expect to change?

M: Yes, what is different about the website after you sign into compared to when you were not signed into it.

P: Well, when you’re not signed in you can’t get any place. Once you’re signed in, you can get to accounts and stuff.

C:  You can’t go to account, or pay a bill, transfer money, you can’t do any of that until you log in. 

M: Hmm okay. So after you log in you’re able to get to

C: All of our stuff, paying bills, transferring money, update your profile, etc.

M: So it’s more like personal things for you.  What on the site indicates that has changed to you?

C: I don’t understand. I’m sorry.

M: Once you’ve logged in, is that you see the links to those things, does the navigation change, do you see any other changes on the site that tell you, now I’m logged in.

C: Yeah, so our account is with Wells Fargo. And the only thing that comes up is their main page, and you have to log in. It has my user name, and that’s always remembered. And then the line for your password. So I have to key in the password, once you key in that and press enter you go to your actual banking page, Which has a number of columns in it and you can go to your account, and it has different drop down menus. And then, what do you want to do, do you want to pay bills, transfer money, set up an account, set up a new payee, all those different things.

M: So thinking about all of that experience how does your experience on VA.gov compare to that other website?

C: VA.gov is much more cumbersome than Wells Fargo Banking.

M: Can you elaborate on that?

C: Yeah, it’s confusing because, again, they have so much on the screen. Even when you go to MHV, it’s fairly simple, because he’s used it for a number of years. Once he logs into MHV, then it’s got the sections for secure messaging, pharmacy, and appointments. So you can go to those main blocks and if you went to write a note to his VIST coordinator or his doctor, he goes to messaging and clicks on that. But trying to do anything else, like going to check on his claims, or do the travel, or anything that’s not included in those three areas, it’s just so complicated to try to get to them. They have changed some of that, because it used to be with logging into I think DOD he had to put in his username and password and then you went to another thing that was another password. And then you had to check which one, they had like 40 pictures and you had to pick a picture as your secure verification. But, you guys fixed that which is really great. You reduced all of that.  But still, going to look at his benefits I think is the most, I guess the word is “cumbersome”. Complicated, cumbersome whatever.

M: Yes, those sound like good adjectives to describe what I’ve seen in our time together today.

C: The thing that I guess the VA, and the majority of the websites out there. They don’t understand with somebody that’s visually impaired, what all those little pop up things - like some of those websites you go to, you continually get pop-up ads. And those, for him, are really distracting, because he has the screen enlarged and if an ad pops up, the screen will moves over to the ad. The screen is constantly changing for him. For someone with a visual impairment that uses a screen reader - 

P: It ends up being less is more.

M: I think that’s true for all kinds of people that less is more.  We talked about having everything on the left side of the screen would make it easier for you to get around the website. Is there anything else about the website that you can think of that would make it less cumbersome for you to find what you’re looking for here?

C: The only thing I will say is the MHV site, the fact that they start out with 3 major blocks, to me that is a good thing. Because you have fewer choices. And I think because of fewer choices you have, the easier it is to try to navigate. So if they could group things into, like, I don’t know, what groupings they could use, but if it was health benefits, travel, education, something that would, you know, more defined and then do drop down menus for those, so you could get more specific into fewer general areas, and put them under more specific things under fewer general areas.

M: That seems more logical to me too. I’m going to have you scroll up and click on this link *guides participant to MY VA* I’m curious to hear your reaction to this and how it would work for you.

C: Over to the left, this has My VA, health care *reads headings down the page* Oh wow, huh. *continues reading*

M: What are your thoughts about this? *Page displays an error message*

C: Ok, well if you can truly go to his claim information under my VA, that seems like this would be helpful. Because if the next part is health care, this shows his next appointment. And then it’s got over here *reads health links* This, we never knew this was here. And of course travel never told us it was there.

M Guides participant to travel pay section

C:  	* Go to VA access to file a claim. File claim for first time. Okay so you go here then I use my HealtheVet to go in. Login redirect, it comes up, sign in.
	* Even when already signed in you have to do it again: right, that’s the thing. There you go well. That’s why when she does travel she tries to do it after 6pm. Try it again. *Unable to process SAML request.
Let me try to go to page. Hmm. Okay. It went to benefits for some reason. So go through login again. Skip that. Continue. Dashboard. This isn’t the site that normally comes up. Let me just get out of there. Okay this is the site that normally comes up and you click veteran travel claim entry and now you are at BTSS then go to access va. You always have to review the profile, every time you login and you go to dashboard or go make coffee. And now you wait more. Go take a shower. We do this and laugh about it. It just takes a long time during the day. Your are at the dash board and here are all of the claims. It doesn’t show the appointments from last week. There should be appointments and you have to go through to find the appointments. If you can’t find appointment you go to the appointment was not listed.

 *goes through process of trying to log in, and encounters a few error messages and has to keep trying.*“I should have the computer in the kitchen so I can multitask”

C: This shows all the claims that have been paid for, but it doesn’t show, like he had an appointment last week, so you have to go and find the appointment. *Uses pagination to navigate appointment list.* So. You can’t find the appointment ,click my appointment wasn’t listed.

M: When you go to a community care appointment is it ever on the list or do you have to create it every time?

C: I have to create it. But this was a VA appointment that he already had but it’s not listed here. It was last Friday. So you have to go through all these steps *reading list of steps on “my appointment isn’t listed* page*

P: And if it’s an appointment out in the community, you have to upload a letter for the appointment.

P: If it’s not listed there, and it was on the VA, that’s because they haven’t marked it as completed and it’ll say unknown. Then after it’s complete you can probably come back to this. But it won’t show up here until the people at the VA say the appointment was completed.

M: You must have a lot of experience with this to have this level of knowledge about it.

C: The thing is they used to have a kiosk, they had them all over the place. *Describes process of using kiosk* They changed that, they felt that was too much for people to do. Then they put this thing in place, so know you have to do this. I’m sure that many of the guys that we encounter at the VA would not have a clue how Tod o this.

P: And a lot of them live alone, they’ve got nobody to help them with it, so they just forget it.

C: It used to be very simple. And also, with the appointments outside of the VA, you used to be able to, and I guess you still can, take a copy, fill in the form, and take a copy of the letter that you take to the doctor to the travel section at the VA. But you have to do it within 30 days, and sometimes he’s not at the VA within the next 30 days after he has an appointment outside of the VA. 

M: *time check* Is there anything else you want to be sure that I see that’s a challenge, as part of this system?

C: The things that you’ve talked about today, that would be most helpful for him. We truly appreciate all of your help with this.

P: You people are wonderful.

M: Thank you, we’re here to make this better for you.

P: We realize you go through all this stuff, and some say you don’t see any change, but we realize anything with the government takes a long time.

