# P14, Logged-in IA and Nav Wayfinding

- Date, time
- Participant is Veteran, Veteran family member and Veteran caregiver

**Moderator:** I understand that you are a Veteran, a Veteran’s family member and a Veteran’s family member. Is that accurate?

**P14:** Yes, both my wife and I are veterans and we both go to VA and care for each other, not paid, just making [can’t understand] for each other. 

**Moderator:** I understand you have the VA benefits of healthcare, education and career services, disability benefits and housing benefits, and pension, life insurance, and memorial benefits. Is that all accurate?

**P14:** Yes, I believe so. 

**Moderator:** Can you share with me, do you use any VA websites currently to manage any of those benefits? Or access them?

**P14:** Yes, MyHealtheVet and VA.gov I use, if not weekly, just to stay up with correspondence and if there’s refills on medications or like, coming up my son will be using Chapter 35 for college, so that falls in there. 

**Moderator:** When you say keeping up with correspondence, can you clarify what you mean by that?

**P14:** Just email that I hardly ever use. So if I receive an email from my doctor or any updates to Veteran benefits in [unclear], Nebraska, I receive it there and not in my personal.

**Moderator:** Can you tell me about the last time you logged in with your account and what you did?

**P14:** Last time should’ve been to check refills on medications and had to submit updated, what is it, disability rating? So I received the current [unclear] letter through VA.gov that shows proof of enrollment and military discharge for benefits. 

**Moderator:** Did you do anything else while you were logged in?

**P14:** Maybe surfed around the site to familiarize myself with it. I do every now and then switch around with the login. As in ID.me or the DS Login, so I don’t do the same all the time. I like to familiarize myself with that. […] IT-wise, I enjoy it.

*Switch to screenshare*

**Moderator:** So you have mentioned that recently, one of the things you did, was you wanted to upload information to change your disability rating, I think you said?

**P14:** Hm, I think one of the scholarships my son was applying for had to show proof of disability for myself. And I submitted application for the Nebraska Disabled American Veteran license plate and I was not in the Nebraska system and so that was why I had to get the updated date stamp time certificate.

**Moderator:** Can you show me how you went about doing that?

*P14 signs in, lands on My VA, scrolls down to “Education and training” at bottom of page and hovers over link “Learn how to apply for VA education benefits.”*

**P14:** Yeah so if I can’t fill it out online the Adams County VSO is who I would go to or the Central Community College in Hastings has the VA rep. at the college Brett is going to so if I can’t fill it out myself, I’ll go to them and they can fill it out. […] In June we can fill it out. As talking, he’s scrolling down the page.

**Moderator:** You had said that you needed to find a letter with a date stamp with your ratings. Can you show me how you went about finding that? 

*P14 clicks on main nav dropdown, “VA Benefits and Health Care,” looks for awhile at options. Then clicks on “About VA” dropdown and looks through those options. Then clicks the search bar, but doesn’t type anything into the box. Then goes over to the local nav on the left side of the page and clicks “Get benefits,” which is already open so his click closes it. Then clicks “Manage benefits” right below.* 

**Moderator:** I noticed that you opened the search box and then it seemed like you changed your mind…

**P14:** Yeah because I never use search (laughs). Something got moved because, oh “Download your VA…”, okay. “Change…” Something got moved. (He’s reading out a couple of the links).

*As P14 is talking, he’s continuing to look through links under “Manage benefits,” then clicks “More resources,” and then goes back to “Manage benefits.”*

**P14:** ‘Cause it’s not school enrollment. Am I still under. Oh it’s because I’m still under Education Benefits, that’s why.

*Goes back to main nav, “VA Benefits and Health Care,” clicks “Disability.”*

**P14:** Right there! Hovering over “File for a VA disability increase.” No.

*Mousing over each link within Disability.*

**Moderator:** Are there certain words you’re looking for?

**P14:** Yeah, it was receive, what was it, benefit letter. And that got changed somehow.

*Continues mousing over each link. Finally clicks on “Request a decision review or appeal.” Then scrolls down on the page all the way to the bottom before scrolling back up and clicking on search box.* 

**P14:** Okay, let’s go to search. 

*Types in “request benefit letter.” And hits enter. Gets some kind of error stating, “You search didn’t go through.”*

**P14:** That’s not it. 

*Goes back to main nav “VA Benefits and Health Care,” mouses over each option and then clicks on “Records,” and pretty quickly goes over to link, “Download your VA benefits letters.”*

**P14:** Right here! So under Records, Download your VA benefits letter. 

*Clicks on the “Download your VA benefits letters” link.*

**P14:** And then like with that I was able to take to Texas, being out of state, and they honor that for an annual fishing license, so if you show them in Texas you’re okay. So I hope with the parks here in Nebraska, little things like that people don’t know.

**Moderator:** Now that you’ve made it to this point of the website, can you talk to me about the experience of finding this page? 

*As moderator talks, he clicks “Get your VA benefit letters.”*

**P14:** Just pick and find. I’m okay with learning the program. I’m not one that gets easily distracted on IT stuff. To me it’s comfortable (laughs). It’s either right or wrong so if it doesn’t work, you can always go back to zero and start over. 

*While he’s talking, he continues to explore. Looks at page he lands on, scrolling up and down. Then clicks “View letters,” and scrolls down the page to find “Benefit Verification Letter.”*

**P14:** It’s right here.

**Moderator:** Is that like a last resort for you, to use search?

**P14:** Yes, correct.

**Moderator:** I believe that you also mentioned that you logged in to do some health things or you do sometimes do some health things. Can you show me how you get to those parts of the website?

*Clicks main nav, “VA Benefits and Health Care,” then “Health care,” then mouses over all the links until “Refill and track your prescription,” which he clicks on while saying…*

**P14:** So like right here is refill and track your prescriptions, so I’ve done that one. And I’ve done, let’s go backwards.

*Clicks main nav, “VA Benefits and Health Care,” then “Health care,” then mouses over “Schedule and manage health appointments,” which he hovers over while saying…*

**P14:** Schedule and manage health appointments. One time I could not get through on the telephone, so I sent a message because I had pre-symptoms of kidney stones and that was my only source other than to drive to the hospital, was to send the email and it took a day to get a response but at least they got there and put in, and then the VA called me back to come in. So the hospital phone line was down and I stopped there and I was like, okay I know I can send an email to primary care. 

*Hovers over the link right below “View your lab and test results.”*

**P14:** And then, yup, view labs, so my LDL has always been oh maybe 8 points high. So I’m able to backtrack and see my past records. 

*Clicks on “View your lab and test results.”*

**P14:** So yeah I mess around with it. If it doesn’t work, I backtrack and try something else.

**Moderator:** I know that you mentioned earlier that your wife is also a Veteran. If you wanted to double-check if she was listed under your dependents, how would you do that? Can you show me?

*Looking in main nav, “VA Benefits and Health Care.” Mouses over most links and hesitates over “Family member benefits.” Closes that nav and then returns to it.*

**P14:** For dependents, I’m looking for… definitely not family member benefits. I’m looking for like DEERS or something.

*Goes to the “About VA” dropdown and mouses over links and then returns to “VA Benefits and Health Care.”*

**Moderator:** I’m not totally familiar with DEERS. 

**P14:** Okay, for me being 100%, my children are allowed to have the military dependent ID card and that’s part of like Champ VA and uh, what is the other one? Tri-West? 

*Opens search and types in: dependent and clicks on the first option in the auto-fill options: “dependent.” Seems to hesitate on first option in search results under “recommended:” “View or change dependents on your VA disability benefits.” Doesn’t click there and instead clicks on the same link, but not under the recommended section.*

**Moderator:** It seems like you almost clicked on that first link and then you chose this one that you clicked on. 

**P14:** I need to go back and see what it said.

*Clicks back button.*

**P14:** View change dependents so I didn’t want to find out how to add... I guess they’re both the same just change dependents… they both say the same thing. I’m not sure why I chose the first one over the second one. 

*Clicks the link again and scrolls through.*

**P14:** So to answer the question… I’m trying to find who is on my dependents. That was the correct question? View current dependents, okay (laughs).

*Clicks green button, “View current dependents.”*

**Moderator:** So what was that experience like for you, finding that information on the site?

**P14:** Well it’s what we were looking for but I was in crunch mode because I was put to the test. 

**Moderator:** Is that how you would expect to find this kind of information on the site?

**P14:** So view your dependents, so where would I find it? Because I had to search it. So how would I find that on the main site?

*Clicks VA logo in top left and arrives at home page.*

**P14:** Here we go. This is the screen I always go to. So I knew how to get out of that stuff.

**Moderator:** And you don’t need to find it again. I’m gonna have you look for one more thing. If you wanted to learn about any additional options offered by VA to pay for you or your children to take college courses, how would you do that? 

*P14 is starting at new home page. Clicks main nav “VA Benefits and Health Care,” then “Education and training.” Mouses over links on left until gets to “Survivor and dependent education benefits.”*

**P14:** Survivor and dependent education benefits, is what Brett would fall under because none of these.

*Clicks on “Survivor and dependent education benefits.”*

**P14:** And then I know first off this would be it right here. So it’s pretty, steps were pretty easy. 

**Moderator:** Is the information on this page applicable to all Veterans or just to you. 

**P14:** Chapter 35 would be just for me for being that 100% so anybody 90% or below does not, uh let’s see. Chapter 31 would be voc rehab, I believe. So that wouldn’t apply to anyone getting out that turns out GI Bill to do voc rehab. Cause you can’t double-dip on both. You gotta do one or the other.

*Starts mousing over links under “More resources,” in left nav.*

**Moderator:** I see you mousing over those links over there. Can you tell me what you’re looking for?

**P14:** I was just waiting for your next question. I was just seeing what’s available. No I wasn’t looking for nothing in general. 

**Moderator:** Okay, so considering the fact that you are logged into the website, does the information you’re seeing here seem like it’s applicable to just you? Or is it for everybody, anyone that could come to VA.gov.

**P14:** I would say it’s for everybody, yes, that’s enrolled in VA healthcare. And for me it’s definitely usable, ‘cause I do use it and I’m able to walk others through if they were to have a question. This is something I’d definitely recommend Veterans to do but some think Big Brothers watching or I don’t want to put my information on the internet are the comments I receive.

**Moderator:** Oh those are the comments you receive from people?

**P14:** Correct.

**Moderator:** So I have another question. That’s really everything I wanted you to show me on the website. At this point I just have a few follow up questions. Do you use any other websites where you need to login with a username and password? Like some examples that I have seen are a banking website or an insurance or other healthcare sites. Do you use anything like that?

**P14:** I’m pretty positive I do.

**Moderator:** For you just to think of an example of a site where you login to do things. You don’t need to go to it. You can just keep it in your mind. So do you have like a banking website where you login? 

**P14:** Yes.

**Moderator:** So thinking about that banking website, what changes about the website when you log in, compared to how the site looks when you’re not logged in?

**P14:** [Long pause] Are you talking about in between my logins?

**Moderator:** No, once you’re on the website and you’re signed into it.

**P14:** Ohh, okay. I gotcha. Okay, so yup, username, password, login. And then the main screen comes up and gives you your different options of checking, saving, credit card, home, mortgage. So that’s your screen A. So screen B would be your hyperlinks of your sub-screens. So you click on checking and then that goes into, of course, checking. So just like the VA one, login, it gives you the healthcare, then it gives you the disability, so you’re breaking each section down. So yeah. Game and parks is the same way. Daily bread. 

**Moderator:** What about the websites indicate to you that you are signed in?

**P14:** My name is on it. Like, right here, it says Steven (mouses over his name on VA.gov in the upper right corner).

**Moderator:** Okay. Does anything else change about that website or this one to show that you’re logged in?

**P14:** I guess everything here has like “your” (he’s showing the “Records” section of the main “VA Benefits and Health Care” dropdown, mousing over links). So that means personal. I hope I’m answering that right.

**Moderator:** There is no right answer. I’m just curious about your perspective on it. There is no right answer. 

**P14:** I guess just to trust that my name is right there so I’m already logged in (clicks his name dropdown in top right and opens the dropdown menu). Oh! And sign out. So if it says sign out right there, that means you’re logged in.

**Moderator:** I have a question for you while you have that menu open that you clicked on there. 

*P14 clicks on “Profile” while Moderator is talking.*

**Moderator:** I noticed that you clicked on “Profile.” Can you share why you did that?

**P14:** Just wanted to see what it showed for main screen.

**Moderator:** What do you think about the options available to you under that menu when you click on your name?

**P14:** Um, My VA, My Health. Okay, two direct ones. Profile would be just whatever I input in. And then Sign out. So My VA would be the VA’s website. And then My Health is just strictly my pharmacy and medical records and correspondence with um primary care or mental health. 

**Moderator:** Okay. And when you said My VA, you said that’s the VA website. So when you click on that, where do you expect that to go?

*P14 clicks on My VA and it starts to load while he answers.*

**P14:** Back to the main screen of My VA. After I’ve already logged into VA, then it goes to the personal side. But then with My Health, it’s already a step further than My VA. My VA would be the table of contents. And then My Health is a chapter. 

**Moderator:** And you said that My VA is your personal side. And what do you think about having that alongside all the other pages that we looked at, that were through the navigation menu?

*P14 mouses over the main nav in “VA Benefits and Health Care.”*

**P14:** What should be over here? Doing it over here is just two more steps to where over here is one step (mouses over dropdown where his name is). If I choose options over here (where his name is) it’s more direct. If I choose options over here (“VA Benefits and Health Care”), I have more steps to get to.

**Moderator:** I see, okay. So from your perspective, do those steps all essentially lead to the same place?

**P14:** Yes. Yes, I’m still gonna get there, to where I need to go.
