# **P15, Logged-in IA and Nav Wayfinding Study**

M: I understand you are a Veteran's caregiver Is that right?

P: Yes, I am. I am the caregiver of two veteran have been doing that since 2019 and basically I am the caregiver. I got into it because I have a lot of veterans in my family, so I felt connected to it and started the process of becoming a caregiver since 2019.

M: Do you have any benefits yourself?

P: I'm part of the caregiver program.

M: Do you manage those online?

P: Yes, I have an account on VA.gov and manage the benefits through there. I logged in a few weeks ago to manage my benefits and made edits in terms of my information on the site. My personal information needed updated (address).

M: Go ahead and show me how you manage your caregiver benefits:

P: _Start screensharing,_ Okay. This is where I am. I logged in prior to the session so now how I manage form this screen is that I go to the menu screen here _clicks menu button (on mobile)_. Not the menu but the dashboard and from here, _clicked__download VA benefits._

M: Is this dashboard?

P: Yes. _Goes back to homepage._ This is all of the actions I can take, as it's highlighted here _opens personalized menu_ this is my individual profile, but down here is where I can manage all my VA benefits and everything like that. This is the health care section, disability, education and, records. This is where I go on the dashboard screen.

M: Are these links for you personally?

P: so yeah. For here when I am going here, if I want to go specifically to downloading my benefit letters or anything like that, there will be another screen that prompts me to login. _Inaudible_

M: Would you mind repeating what you just said?

P: Yes, for the links here, all of this is direct for me. For some of them, there was one time when I was applying for disability like check your claim or appeal status, that will all be specific to me. Some of these links are more general but some are very direct and specific to my needs and things like that.

M: Are you able to file for disability as a caregiver?

P: I am looking into that now. I am going to speak with someone because of the issues I have. I am not too sure about that I need to speak to them a little further to see if I can get dual benefits.

M: Show me how you manage you caregiver benefits or access information about that, that would be really helpful

P: how I go about doing that for caregiver benefits, one thing when I need it to be shared or anything like that, I will go to

_Participant dropped out of session, technical difficulties. Participant rejoins._

P: Zoom keeps crashing with my screen reader. On my phone I guess its not the most compatible. I normally due to on my laptop. I have never really done it on my phone it will share but then it will keep crashing then the website acts weird.

M: Let's proceed with just talking through what you're doing instead of screen sharing.

P: I can do that. Let me go back to where I was before and walk through from there. So, when I login there is the dashboard and at the top near my name there's a drop down that has my VA, my health, profile and sign out. To look at my benefits I go to My VA and there are a few options. Debts, payments, additional benefits that you want to take part of. There is the option under benefits payments it has manage those payments. When I first started to use it, it was confusing because there was only direct deposit information. I didn't have it set up so I was confused as to how to sign up for it, I hadn't made an account. Under the setting you can see all recent payments, benefit payments. You'll see the option where you can add or update the bank account information. SO that is basically where I go to do that, under that setting.

M: From the my VA page?

P: Yes

M: If the link wasn't there, on the My VA page, how would you go about finding that on the website?

P: Are you asking not from my, I guess, profile, but..

M: Yes, my understanding is that you're on the My VA page right now, in the payment section, and there's a link there, that's where you go. If you wanted to manage your payments and there was no link on My VA, how would you find that page?

P: If it wasn't there on my VA, I would go to the main menu on the main screen, or I would do a search for a specific inquiry, or I would go to the menu tab, and go to VA Benefits or Health Care, and look from there regarding any family member benefits or other things about caregiver benefits.

M: If you could go through that, and tell me what you decide to click on, that would be very helpful for our team.

P: This is basically what I would do. I would go to the main menu tab, and I would click on essentially what I would do, since there are two options, there's a search bar, and then there is also the main screen. Since there is a search bar, basically what I would do is literally type in caregiver benefits, entering a keyword, because that would bring me directly where I need to be. And instead of having to go through the menu and looking through the different pages, since I do know where I should go. And from there, one of the top results is the program for comprehensive care for caregiveirs, and within there, I see there are quite a few blue links that come up where you can get direct benefits, it's a bunch of resources in terms of how to apply, to go directly ot benefits, things like that. That's basically how I would do it since there is that search bar feature.

M: Ok so you would use search, and it sounds like you have landed on a page about caregivers. Is the payment information you found through My VA available to you from this page?

P: Let me see, I don't believe so, not from here no.

M: So what would you do next to try to get to that page?

P: Let's see, so at that point, what I would probably do, since I can't locate it through here, and I looked through, what's kind of immediately coming up in the preview screens, I would go back to the menu tab, and I would just utilize the VA benefits and health care section. And from there, I would go to a tab, like I would go to one of the tabs under the health care, and from there I would go family and caregiver benefits. And from there, there is a link, one of the options is about tracking prescriptions, and there is a link about managing benefits. It is right there.

M: So you would use the menu as a secondary option?

P: Yes, the search is overwhelming, there are a lot of results. If I don't get it from the first couple of results, I'm going to exit out and try the navigation. And that seems to work.

M: Do you ever have to do things for the people that you take care of, on VA.gov?

P: Yes, so managing their presecriotions, I've also helped them in terms of locationg their benfits as well. Really the healthcare section, in terms of prescriotions and that type of things, but they have their own accounts and I manage them. I manage their benefits like check ups and prescriptions are also found here. I find that help in terms of managing their care.

M: What page are you on now?

P: the page I found from navigation about benefits.

M: What does the h1 say, just so I know what page you are on?

P: the navigation I went to VA healthcare and benefits, then healthcare, then healthcare for family members/caregivers.

M: How would you manage the prescriptions:

P: Yes, thinking about where I would do that. Basically, what I would do from that page is going to the healthcare tab because under that tab there is an option for refill and track prescriptions, and it will bring you to the page refill and track. It is a separate tab that opens. It is on myHealtheVet, and it is within there, but you are able to access their information from here. I am under caregiver and have access to their information and get notifications of prescriptions and appointments in a different division of the site like my HealtheVet.

M: I'm going to switch gears a little bit, and talk about disability benefits. Imagine someone you care for had a hearing problem that had gotten worse and you needed to file an increase for their disability rating. How would you do that?

P: Again, the name of the vet I take care of is at the top, under profile, under that profile menu, I click on the profile tab, from there is an option. So, there's three things you can see in that menu – contact, military, direct deposit, but I would leave it under personal information. There are different things you can see, contact, military, direct deposit. But I would leave it under personal information. So it has the name of person, gender, the underneath that there is an edit button for disability rating. And so it would show their current disability rating under there, and from there you can update that disability rating from that particular page on profile page.

M: Ok, go ahead and talk me through that, if you click that edit button what happens from there.

P: OK, from here, it basically shows, I currently don't have any on file myself, but if I'm logged into my account, under that edit section, it shows that persons disability rating, and the different components of their disability rating.

M: Go ahead and take the steps, and talk me through what you're doing up until the point when you are actually changing someone's disability rating.

P: From here it basically shows under here I don't have any on file for myself since I am logged in but for the person I care for, it shows under there, under that, edit, it shows what the persons rating is and the different components of their disability. Then under that there's an option to add supplemental information to add to or update their disability rating specifically what I had it for. That's where that shows and there's a learn more about disability ratings, and you can calculate, it and that's first where I would go, so you can calculate it, and then I would add that with the supplemental information so it would be adjusted.

M: Earlier you mentioned you wanted to look into whether or not you are eligible for disability benefits as a caregiver. How would you learn about if you were eligible for disability?

P: I tried that before, the only thing that I saw, there was the option, closest I got it was the option to apply but for myself then again how does that interact with me being a caregiver? I want to apply because of the vision issues I have. That was something where I couldn't find where I fall within that on the website, so my plan was to reach out to someone. I plan to do that. But as far as resources on the site, the closest I was, was apply because I wasn't sure where to look.

M: Were you logged in at the time?

P: yes.

M: I'm curious to hear you reflect on the fact that you were logged in, and you're part of the VA Caregiver program, and you were not able to be confident as to whether or not those benefits apply to you as a caregiver.

P: What threw me off about it, is what I was basically seeing is the general links, in terms of some of that information on my dashboard. Seeing that there's health care, the disability information, it was still the same general links as before, even when being logged in. A lot of specific information, but a lot of the links that I was seeing was still on the more general side. At least for the help links anyway, in terms of those frequently asked questions were still in the general category. I would like to be specific when I'm applying for anything. I felt that, does this really apply to me as well, even though I fall into the spectrum of disability, how does that interact with my caregiver benefit? That is where, it was just not giving me that specific information, and that's why I didn't feel confident.

M: What do you think, do you have any suggestions or ideas on what could make it easier for you?:

P: I definitely think that in the section to see different things like healthcare and disability benefits, I think one of the main things that could be helpful, depending on the profile you're using to log in, adjusting those links that you see and having to where it is adjusted to you. So, as a caregiver, putting that link ahead. Once you're logged in, it gives you that specific information and it knows that I'm logging in as a caregiver. It could promote more links that are specific to caregiver information. I think it would be helpful because I don't have to look at a link that may apply to me, but it doesn't mention anything about caregivers or intersectionality, so then I get confused. I think having it where the links I'm seeing once I log in are tailored to caregivers, being able to see that, I think would be very helpful.

M: If you log into your account as a caregiver, in that experience you've just described, would you also expect to see links about the people you take care of?

P: yes, instead of a general thing, I would expect to see links like tailored to that experience, so I would expect to see information about caregivers like what other things can a caregiver get. And then how to get maximum benefit as a caregiver, for the people you work with. I think showing me both, because that's tailored to the experience. Because I am a caregiver, but I'm also taking care of people, so I need to be able to have those resources and give them that knowledge and be able to be in the forefront of that, so I think tailoring the experience based on the profile you have, and what you're down for, on the website, would be very helpful.

M: One other question I have for you, you accessed a menu by clicking on your name.

P: Yes, it says my name and then it says menu, it's logged in and then there is a more general menu.

M: The logged in menu that you see, how do you feel about the options available there?

P: Thinking about – let me go step by step by each of the options in the tailored menu. Thinking about My VA, I wish there were more options on that page. Thinking about benefit payments, instead of having to access a different menu to see that, maybe showing me one or two recent benefit payments from that screen to feel a little more full. To feel like it's very tailored specific information. From there you have that top section _reading my VA_, the bottom section _refers to apply section on My VA,_ is where I would like to see more specific information tailored to me as a caregiver. When I go to my profile, I am satisfied with the profile options because you can do a lot, make those changes, and it's pretty easy to get through Thinking about my health one that's where I get to the myHealtheVet, and I access it from there. That redirects me to the myHealtheVet area where I can manage prescriptions and things like that. That is my assessment from the personalized menu.

M: Are those options sufficient?

P: yes, but I wish it was more on the individual pages. The options are good.

M: Can you speak to experience of having both menus while logged in?

P: Thinking about that, I don't mind it because I think sometimes I want a general answer so, it's something where I just need a quick look up. Let's say I want to look up education and training I think it is good the resources are there. Thinking about being a person that uses a screenreader, I do wish that some of these menus were a little more streamlined and more straightforward. So if there was a way, if you're not logged in seeing the general menu, but then if you are logged in, seeing the more general information just from the personalized menu, if that makes sense. Being able to access some of these larger resources once you're logged in, the other menu become merged with the other menu so it's just streamlined and more accessible, so everything will be on one screen.

M: More condensed links?

P: yes like if there were there on the main menu I could click for the generalized menu. Now it goes through the personalized menu, and then moves under the other menu and there's a lot of options under there. If we could condense it down that would be ideal.

M: If you could wave a magic wand how would navigation be ideal or want to speak?

P: Ideally it would be the menu when logging in the general would just merge with the personalized menu. Instead of the normal search have the option there's a mic to speak into like speech to text or voice command to take me somewhere.

M: It's so valuable for us to hear your perspective on this. Thank you. I have one more thing I wanted you to talk through. How would you find out if there were options for VA to pay for college courses for caregivers?

P: I would go to the menu screen the generalized menu. Then go to education and training tab, and then from there, I would go to view all in education, to see what comes up under that, and what is the eligibility for that and what would that consist of.

M: What are other websites that you use a username and password to log on?

P: Yes my banking, phone bills, other bills. I login and complete the task. I have logins at a lot of places.

M: What do you expect to change about the website when you are logged in, compared to when you're logged out?

P: The information is more general when I am not logged in to my bank account. it will show me more general information, I like to compare it to news. It's about interest rates and things like that. It's a very generalized experience, where anyone even if you don't have an account, you can look at that. It is very general, they even have a branch locator.

M: What is different about the site once you're logged in?

P: That information stays the same, but then you get the element of being able to check your account and do account specific things, like transfers, do what ever you need to do. And you'll see your balance and more specific information about yourself.

M: After you logged in, how did your experience on VA.gov compare to that other website?

P: Um this is what I will say. Thinking about banking, I do see more personal information up front than with the VA site. You have access to personal information, but you have to click a menu, then a link but with the bank once you are logged you see it immediately on your dashboard. You get that right off the bat. With VA, your name will come up when you're logged in, but then you have to click to see more specific information. With the bank, you will see at least your balances and if you have a savings, whatever.

M: Is that a positive or negative when you can see it automatically when logged in?

P: A positive because when I log in, I want to see at least something. Even, if I wanted, for example, a specific information, I'm able to at least see a general idea, of OK, this is my balance, that's great. So that's what I like about the experience of seeing that, and then if I want more personal information I can do that at a later time.

M: Thank you _ends the session._
