# **P2, Logged-in IA and Nav Wayfinding Study**

Screenreader participant, JAWS on desktop

M: I understand you are a _Veteran and a Veteran's Family member)_ Is that right?

P: That is correct.

M: And, according to my notes you have health care benefits, disability and housing benefits through VA. Is that correct?

P: Housing benefits, what do you. Mean?

M: Housing benefits, such as adaptive housing.

P: Yes sorry. I am also a social worker, so when I think of housing I tend to think of homeless.

M: Thanks for confirming that. Are there any other benefits or services that you receive?

P: Those are the major ones, currently I'm not on it, but I should be put back on the VA adaptive sports monthly stipend. I have put in that interface before to put in that monthly stipend request. I also have travel and transportation benefits, I do not have 9/11 but I just applied for VR&E. The ones you mentioned are the main ones that are currently active, and the others are ones I've had a relationship with in the past or will soon have them.

M: Do you manage or access that benefit or service online at all?

P: Yes. The main ones for healthcare are secure messaging and review of labs. No medication so not a lot of need for those services but it was fun playing with eh update in February. It will be interested to see how the check in system is evolved that is as well as BTSSS because that is problematic. I don't have anything in my current queue or appointment that occurred in the last 6 months so I cannot access it or have a legit touch point with the system at this point.

M: What Website do you use for secure messaging:

P: all of them. More importantly, I think you're asking which browsers I sue to access it because you can only access it on one site. I do all of it. I will do it through the app, chrome, safari. I use all of them to get to all of these points. I do use all of the platforms to access wherever you can however you can.

M: tell me about the last time you logged into your VA account.

P: Yesterday, through the VA health and benefits app the sign in process wasn't loading. I hopped over to web browser to check it out and get into it for secure messaging with some of my coordinators, as well as just me checking to see when I did my labs last time as a demonstration. I showed them a view way to check labs. I had about 20 veterans in the session when I showed them.

M: Can you show me how you access secure messaging:

P: I have Jaws 2023 on google chrome to access it. When it loaded, I did control L and TYPED IN to va.gov. So I got to my home page and now comes the fun part of finding the sign in button which. I'll do with a find or tab through. I'll do the tab through.

_Logs in with with login.gov, mistakenly enters 2FA code into address bar. Login process takes nearly 10 minutes_. Oh no! Ah! I don't, no!

P: There we go, sorry about that. Most of that is end user stuff

P: OK so Secure Messaging. I'm a major screen find lover. _Uses JAWS screen find and types "secure" and then messages._ Healthcare unread messages. _Presses enter_ If one doesn't work, I go to the next one. _Tabs to "view all messages link" and presses enter_

M: I see that you searched to get there and found view messages lin. I'm curious to know how would you get to secure messages if that link were not there:

P: I'm a big fan of doing screen finds so I would use that. But Since I know it is under health I would use headings to get to healthcare, and tab through health. _Lands on same link, tabs through page._

P: Lets do it the slightly longer way, view secure messaging. _Find same link and goes toMHV again._ .

M: That was the same one you found before.

P: Other way I would sometimes do this is to do a google searching over to va.gov or my HealtheVet. Those are other ways to get to this area.

M: Let's go back to that other tab, and Ill have you show me. You have a couple different tabs open, is that clear to you?

P: Yeah. _Back on My VA_, I would do a google search or just the VA search. Usually one of those two will get me to secure messaging. Usually I'l go to the google search, nothing against the VA search, but with the VA search, a lot of the articles are not the portal entry point. Whereas google is pretty good about giving you the portal entry point.

M: OK, I remember you also said you had recently applied VocRehab, can you show me how you did that?

P: For that one I would go back to the google process. Did a google search for VA VR&E and look for the webpages that popped up and se ethe list of options, so I picked the VR&W one. and when you are at the VR&E page it provides several options for setting up the initial brief session. One is PDF form that you can bring in to your regional office, or the other options is a very quick survey quick system that allowed me to fill out the information and get that sent over which prompted the action to get me set up for the brief meeting and counsel sessions.

M: I'm so impressed that you can recall those details off the top of your head

P: I am a lover of heading navigation so I will do 3 to get me to the first search result. _Redirected to VA.gov homepage via link they cliked._ I know I am on the VR&E page, Awww there are no smart glance highlights.

M: what are smart glance highlights?

P: It's a newer feature within JAWS that looks at different parts of the webpage through their own internal algorithms. It's another way of navigating the webpage that's not based on how it's coded, it's something that software builders compile based on fonts and other things.. I wish VO had something similar as well. I have used VO on Mac for 16 years.

M: Really quick, what versin of JAWS are you using?

P: 2023. Ok so heading navigations on VA pages is always fun because last time I counted there were a dozen or so header level 2 before you get to the body of the page. _Starts navigating via headings, within "try the new homepage" modal._

P: Ok y'all need to get rid of that stupid pop up thingy. I don't want to go to the new homepage. _Triggers JAWS Find, types VR&E._ Oh you phooey poopy butt. _Shuts down browser and starts over._

_Opens Chrome, searches va vr&e lands on benefits.va.gov/vocrehab explores links throughout page_

So right now I'm just going through the main part. I hit the 1 to get me over to the main VR&E heading. As much as people say heading order doesn't count, YES, yes it really does. I appreciate the teams made sure that is straight and cleared up recently.

P: That annoying, I was waiting to see if the scroll would Popup, yep it did. That's annoying. The auto scroll. So I just want over the apply, Within apply I am hoping there is a form that will start the application process. _Seems to be jumping around illogically through content._

P: _Tabbing through content._ It gives you the general information.

M: These are the same steps you took earlier this week?

P: yes, this one is only slightly problematic. _Opens a PDF file_ So it is just some of the fields in sequential tab order aren't quite lining up right. How does that sound?

M: At this point I'll have you pause. Did you compelte this as a PDF rather than online?

P: No, I applied for it online, but I just wanted to check this other part of the follow up proess. _Navigated to form page through the action link on the content page._

M: You clicked on a google search result that took you to benefits.va.gov and then ended up on VA.gov. Is it clear to you that you're on a different website from where you started?

P: I know I am in the portal for VR&E. I started on the main VR&E page, then went to the how to apply with more general information and now I'm on the initial page to apply online to answer these questions. _Participant is not aware of going between different websites._

Confusing: No because I take things how they are and flow with them which is my general style.

M: Can you show me how you would double check any depents you have on VA?

P: There's a couple ways of doing it. The app way is the easiest way of doing it. The VA Health and benefits app. I'm trying to think when I last did this 5 years ago. OK, so last time I did this mainly I'm looking at it in terms of two portals that you're looking at. So it can be accounted and credited to your compensation benefits level. I know there's something about that in the general heading area. Once again I'd go to google to update general dependents to find my way to an entry portal and then proceed from there. Just as a way of avoiding – there's a lot of stuff up there in the header that I try to avoid the headings and the menu as much as possible, because of the amount of detail that's up there. A lot of times it's just easier to do a search for it and get around that area. I'm not sure if I'll be clicking two or three levels past the initial heading point to find the item.

M: That makes a lot of sense, and you actually answered a question I was going to ask later. I noticed you haven't used the navigation on the site. So you're purposely avoiding that.

P: Yeah, and this is what I tell to Vetearns (when training), it's there, and if you have a lot of vision, check it out. Because it is nicely organized. I'm not faulting the VA on that. You could strip away a couple of the layers to streamline things a little bit. But it is a very nice useful quick glance. But when it comes to the screenreader there's a whole lot up there oyu need to navigate through. And each heading as it's own little header area.

_Participant types VA.gov into browser, even though they're already on the site._

P: First things first I try to do a screen search if I'm looking for something to see what pops up on the page before I try to start navigating through it. _Types dependents into JAWS search. Then tries heading navigation, tabbing through all tabs._

M: It sounds like it is not normally what you would do?

P: I would just go to google. VA dependent update benefits. Isn't that so much better. I am sure it is located under update benefits. It was the third one over under benefits tab. It is all with updating and applying for compensation but I wanted to go through to see if they stuck it in somewhere else in the structure. There's a lot of cool things up there. I am just not sure what is under which one. Visually its nice. But screen reader wise, it's not so nice.

M: How Could it be made easier for you?

P: We have a few things to balance out. You can make it easier yes, but how are ways to add it without additional clicks. Some of the things that would make it easier, more central points with less options available, means you'll have to click through a few more screens. And that'll lose people as much as throwing everything on the screen at once. \ That will throw more people off especially with cognitive ability issues and screen readers. More click throughs is not easy. More things on the screen aren't easy. There's no good way to answer that. The way things are structured now, it does work; maybe having the major tabs, even though technically you're still on the same screen, it presents you with a different set of options. It's a hard one because how do you make it a more universal design.

I will go back to use screen search or google search to get to where you want to go because it resolves the issues. This doesn't even go into the topic of accessing thngs through voice – that would actually help everyone.

M: The last thing I'm interested in having you show me. Imagine you wanted to look for options for VA to look for you to pay for college courses.

P: First step for that one, it has nothing to do with the sturctur of the VA website. I'd first start with a google search because of the nuber of benefits available to help with any kind of post-secondary track. My first step is going extremal to VA to start understanding the full breadth of options out there.

M: I'm interested to hear more about those external options.

P: A lot of it has to do with university programs, yellow ribbon style programs. Secondary pathways into educational pursuits, other types of training style programs. I do love the general benefit style emails, and the entire Vantage Point piece. There's a lot of good stuff that gets thrown out there about different programs available. You're looking at everything that might eavailable within your interest area. Once you identify what you're loking for, that's when you can start looking at, OK GI Bill, am I elgible, how much do I have left.

P: It's like do I have my GI bill or am I eligible for VR&E. once you see what you want to do a scholarship, they will have more information on the different chapters we could be eligible to or who they partner with which is more critical these days as pros and con sides. Sales force training is a good one I see. They have a relationship to guide veteran in VR&E to get them trained. Same thing for colleges, they will have a accreditation officer to guide you through it.

P: I don't like going to VA first, I like first directing on where you want to go and what you want to do than connecting it with VA. They need to know where you want to go but if you don't have a plan they can only do so much, find out where you want to go then come back to the VA to see where it lines up.

M: How would you see if you have any benefits left?

P: I went back to VA.gov to start here. I would start form the main page and I know it is over in the main menu so I will use screen finds and then find where to go or if I need to find out what I need to do. WHEEL- Where are you trying to go, how you're going to do it, evaluate your toolbox, explore, Locate .

In this case, it's the GI Bill. I think that's going to be located in the heading. How will I get over to the headings, what tools do I have in my toolbox?

I am doing this on my mind, before we start but I've been doing this for a long time. this is how I come to these steps I do. It's systematic approach that I'm doing. I am bad at explaining. So I think that's going ot be located in the heading.

Screen find and heading navigation are the best tools for me, that I know will help me find something quickly.

_Launches screen find again, types Education, tabs through links in top task box_ I'm going to tab through the other items to see what's there. OK so those are the

Let's look for Bill. I can due links with the JAWS key. I try not to do that but other veterans do. It is tools they use. It works but for me screen search is best for me. Bill because its GI Bill. Well let's do education. I know payment history is all payments. These are things I would normally do.

P: I might sign in to go through it because ultimately as soon as you can get past the log in process and get into additional options, you go through those additional options. At this point I'd probably log in and see where this takes. Me

M: So as far as you know, you're not logged in right now?

P: Yeah, as far as I know, because I already closed down google chrome. I'm going to assume I'm not logged in and the security was cleared. Is there a way I can check, yeah I could tab through the heading and see if the sign in button is still there _tabs through_ oh look I'm still signed in. That's what you get for skipping content.

M: Were you expecting to find a sign in button?

P: I was interested in seeing what JAWS would say that is why I let it play. Only because I know that area is right up there at the top. I remember when that used to be buried further deep in screenreader sequential tabbing order, and let me see the first couple items
 .
 P:I have not been trying to get past that point, if we are behind the login I will try to stay logged in and not exit out of the page. There is nothing GI Bill that says I went through the wrong area but I will get through all of the screen finds for bill. Apparently, it popped up in 2014. This page did not give me what I was looking for as per the request of how much I have left on my GI Bill Benefits.

P: I would go back to the main page or explore more on this page. More times than not I would google my way into it. I love google, not that I trust that first one but because [the keystrokes for JAWS are so simple].

P: Now I am on the page for the GI bill statement of benefits. I would drop down to the main body by using 1 to get to that heading. Than go through this page to see what it says and how it can connect me to finding out how much I have left on my GI bill.

P: From our recent discussion, I know I'm logged in. _Continues down the page. Lands on Check your GI Bill Benefits CTA, continues down the page._ Okay so the link will take us over to check. It was the first link so I am at that link. I know we are on the right page. The system is not working right now.

Commented that most things you didn't need to be logged in to do it but it was about you, impression:

I am good. Minus the blurp when I closed down, based on my browser it will dump the touch points it won't recognize you as being signed in instead of where I am where I did not close down. I expect myself to be logged in.

Thinking about other websites that you log into, can you think of another example of a website you log into to do anything?

P: Yeah, all of our MS 360 account stuff, all of my Apple media production side of things, banking is a major on

M: let's think about banking for example. When you log into a banking website what do you expect to change about the website once you're logged in?

P: The entire website. It's very much a different secure portal. Where the front-facing external site is not even close to what's on the inside. Only because on the outside their main thing is to seel you the services an stff like that, and once you get on the inside you get a whole different list of different things that's related to your account, that you have. Vs the VA, I expct the internal and external to be similar, because you're accessing the external pages and then from there, you're going to see what you internally have. to see what you have. I do like that they're lined up, especially on the benefit side. On the health care side, yeah, I like the differences that there is there. VA is not trying to be a seller of new customers; it's a tool for people who are eligible to their entitlement to be able to access and get into it. Those are two completely different types of situations and paradigms. We're consumers of the services, we're not customers.

M: Can you elaborate more on, when you're logged into VA.gov, you said your banking site is a totally different side. And you do not expdct that from VA.gov. And having to navigate all the geneal eligibnily content alongside the personal information abouty yourself, is that confusing?

P: No, oftentimes not for me. It's very explanatory, it's time to learn. I know what we're getting at right now, - if we have two extremely separate sides of the VA, internal vs external. Things get more complicated. It gets hard to figure out where you're trying to go because you're looking at two completely different portals, and that does become confusing. That's where it becomes kind of nice to have similar structures in place. Ignore the fact that I avoid them and just use Google, because quite frankly those are my methods of doing it, not other people.,
