# **P3, Logged-in IA and Nav Wayfinding**

Before we start looking at the website, I want to learn a more about you. When the session was scheduled, you provided some information.

- M: I understand you are a _Veteran_?
- P: I am indeed
- M: And, according to my notes you have health, disability, and pension benefits through VA. Is that correct?
- P: That is correct.
- M: Thanks for confirming that. Are there any other benefits or services that you receive?
- P: Uh no not really, I think the generalization is accurate.
- M: Do you manage or access that benefit or service online at all?
- P: Yes, I communicate completely online with my doctor or my assigned medical provider which is part of the VA system in [city], but it is right outside of [city].
- It sounds like you use that to send messages. Are there any other things you do online related to those benefits?
- P: Yes, I schedule appointments and recently unscheduled an appointment. I do, sometime is use the phone in conjunction.
- M: Do you do anything online related to your pension or disability benefits?
- P: I haven't had a review for a while, I had just requested a review and waiting for one. It seems more like a DVA task rather than a VA task.
- M: me about the last time you logged into the account.

P: This morning to read a message form a RN. She was trying to give me a point of contact at the DAV. No one answered so I left a message. I logged in yesterday to look at the status of the messages and I just had an ultrasound, so I did send a copy of that to the va. I keep them up to date about everything that goes on separately. I'm a little bit unusual I get civilian medical [in another city] because I live by the ocean. Its more than 40 minutes to get to the VA so I go close by to see the doctor and for tests. Whenever I do that, I send a record to the VA and ask them specifically to added to my file. I ask the doctor who is my attending for comments on what the test has said. You wonder why that's unusual. I also have relations with Walter reed because of my position in the page, and [another hospital], I have it sent to VA as well. And if I have anything done at the VA, I have it sent to the other hospitals. I had modules on my lungs since 1969 and I get CAT scans to make sure they don't change in some way. Any time that happens it does to the VA.

M: How ar you sending the records to the VA?

P: I attach the record to the secure message and the same with the military. I Have a TOL account, and I think they just converted to something similar. it is similar to the VA. And then I have my own record at [another hospital].

P: I don't think this is right what I do personally. I have taken advantage of my position and what I did in the past but driving 40 minutes to the VA is ridiculous. And now my association with the other hospitals stems from my care for a variety of other conditions.

M: Thanks for sharing all of that with me. Now I'll have you share your screen in zoom. Do you know how to do that? If not, I can help you.

_Moderator guides participant through screen sharing. Participant is already signed into MHV and has it pulled up in browser. Moderator asks participant to show how they got there, and they opened a new tab in their browser and typed "vamyhealh gov" into address bar. Clicked MHV search result from Bing, first result. Moderator guides participant to VA.gov homepage._

M: Imagine that you wanted to send a secure message from this site, how would you do that?

P: I have no idea, I've never done it. I'd go back _hovers over browser back button_ to the site I was just on My VA.

M: If that site didn't exist, and all you knew there was some way to get to messages from here, what would you do?

P: If you can see where my cursor is _hovering over My VA_ I'd click on the My VA box. _Clicks. Modal opens._ I think…_hesitates.._I have an account but I'm not sure which one of these I would choose. _Chooses MHV_

P: I have it set for the security code to be sent to me. This is why I wouldn't use this because it takes much longer than just going to My HealtheVet. _My VA loads, participant immediately clicks Go to Profile link_ I go to my profile, and there we are that's me.

M: Why did you click on that link for profile, what were you looking for?

P: just letting you know I was active no other reason.

M: And if you wanted to send your provider a message, how would you do that?

P: I would never use this link I would always use my va since it's very easy. it is direct

M: For the purposes of this session, I'm curious how this website would work for you, to do the same thing, if you can see how you would send a message:

P: I think I can do that, clicked send secure message.

Click the link: yes, I did but it doesn't seem like its working. It worked it just took while.

How would you do it without the link on the page: I wouldn't do anything I would immediately say to myself check up here _in heading, clicks personalized menu,_ where it takes me to my va, and no other thought would come to my mind. I would never go on this site.

M: If you couldn't find it on this website, what would you do next?

P: Call them on the phone and ask for help. I might try googling or search for it. It would depend on the issue. I found the clinic number by going to the Miami VA site then going to the William b clinic and looked for optometry. I had to unscheduled and reschedule due to traveling.

M: _gives prompt to see if they can find medical records._

P:: I would go to profile, my health, and myva, all three of these, and search for the records. I would attach it to an email or to an email, or to commination of one kind and then send it.

M: So for this, I'm curious to see how you get to the point where you have something to upload. Can you show me how you'd find those records?

P: Let's use an example if you don't mind. I go to the VA; the VA gives me a test such as an ultrasound. They put the record on my VA my medical records on my health VA. I know I have this test done, so I would wait a few days and then when I found it, because I know I'm supposed to do this, I would attach it to send to [names list of hospitals].

M: When you know those days have passed and you're ready to find those records, can you show me where you would look?

P: _Clicks My VA, then download records button_

M: _Guides back to My VA._ Ok, from here, if you needed to do that but that link wasn't on this page, where would you go?

P: Obviously, I would go to My VA website. Because here I'm on the VA website. If I couldn't find it there for some reason, I'd go to the provider. The place wher ethe test was done, and I'd try to contact them and ask them to put it on there. I've had to do that a few times, with VA. All [of the other facilities I'd go to] are really good about posting tests, but the Miami VA isn't as good.

M: So there's no other way you'd look for that information here?

P: no, I don't think so. If there is I'm not smart enough to think of it.

- _If needed,_
  - Guide away from MHV or eBenefits to VA.gov
  - Share the health hub page with them if they land on current version

M: How would you double checkdependents you have on file with VA?

P: I guess we are talking about my wife. I would go to my profile. I would check here under personal information. I don't know what I am doing here exactly but I cannot seem to get it to scroll, there we go. I don't know, good question. I have never done that, but I can't do it by profile since it isn't there. I have no idea its not in personal information, my wife should be here but at least my address is correct. No names, maybe I haven't listed my wife. I have only been married for 61 years. I haven't gotten that far yet.

M: Where else might you look?

P: I don't know I never actually done that. The only place I would look is my VA.

_M:_ How to find how the VA will pay for college:

P: I wouldn't do it.

M: Can you use your imagination?

P: I would go to the VA site. I would go basically to the site you had me on.

M: You can go ahead and do it and talk me through it as you go.

P: _Clicks VA logo to go back to homepage._ I might start here _mouses over all edu links on homepage._ Good question I haven't done this for a hundered years. _Clicks apply for edu benefits._ I joined in 2 january 1962. I guess I would use this site to find things out (Reading page).

M: Does this tell you options?

P: I would also go over here to education and career counseling _mousing over links in side navigation._, employment site, there are serval different things I would click on depending on my question. Personally, I wouldn't do this but if I were using my imagination as you asked, there is ample amount of information to find answers to questions like this.

M: I noticed that when you couldn't find what you were looking for, you didn't try to use the search on website or the navigation menus on the page. Did you notice them on the website?

P: Yes, I have used them in the past but generally speaking it is logical. You can figure it out yourself unless you reach some kind of a box of information, a Y in the road or something, and just cant decide what you want to do you might need a navigation tool. Most of the time I don't need it.

M: In the case of finding medical record.

P: Not a problem its myva. Mine are mostly in blue button files. I took you to that site already.

M: I noticed though, when I had aksed you how you would find that without the link you clicked on.

P: Haha, I don't know that.

M: Had you noticed the links in the navigation?

P: Yes, I noticed them _clicks._ Oh I see now I can find all kinds of information. I'm more now in the burial mode, I want to be sure I can be buried right. But I didn't need this before. I would go there.

M: And how about the site search. Did you ever use search on a website?

P: I don't remember normally. I'm so comfortable now with my VA, that I don't need it.

M: What are other websites that you use a username and password to log on?

P: Sure, I login constantly my entire life is handled online.

M: What do you expect to change when you log on to your banking website as an example. When you log into that website, what do you expect to change onces you're signed in compared to when you're signed out?

P: I expect that they know I am online, and the prompts are applicable to me. If not, I then would use the search tool.

M: OK, and when you say the prompts are applicable to you, can you elaborate on that?

P: Sure, and if I login to USAA as an example, and and once I have proven my identity it provides logical choices and a menu to choose my accounts, my investments, my insurance of different kinds, and my profile/personal information and everything that is applicable to me. If I had a new question, I just did - USAA had a 4.99% interest on a CD, so I went to the USAA site, and obviously that wasn't a choice, since it was something I never had at USAA. I had never had to do that before but I got everything I needed.

M: OK, so considering _repeats back what the participant said about USAA._ How does that experience compare with what you've experienced on VA.gov after logging in.

P: Perfect. Very, very good. I am very happy with my va and va.gov.

M: OK, and just to clarify when you say My VA you are referring to My HealtheVet, where you do your secure messaging, is that correct?

P: Correct. My healthcare.

M: OK, and focusing on this website, what is on your screen now (how to apply edu page) instead of MHV, can you speak a little bit to how what you see here after you logged in works for you in terms of finding information that is logical and pertinent to you.

P: It is fine. I have my impression of this section is that it's easy , I don't have any big problems. I just wouldn't use it because my direct to My VA (MHV) is much faster and much easier.

_end session_
