# **P5, Logged-in IA and Nav Wayfinding Study**

I understand you are a [_Veteran / Caregiver / Family member )_ Is that right?

P: I am just a veteran

M: I also understand you have disability benefits. Is that correct?

P: Yes

M: Any other benefits?

P: I'm allowed to see health providers.

M: Do you do that?

P: If I want to. I hardly go to the doctor but I have in the past, and I've gone for the hospital.

M: Do you manage or access that benefit or service online at all? Tell me more about that\>

P: I log in to check and see if I have any previous visits and new updates on my record. And I check on thes tatus of my disability claim if I submit a new one. And I check to see what other benefits I'm entitled to.

M: Are there visit associated with your disabilitry claims or are these more like doctor visits?

P: I've been to the hospital for emergency visits _describs other appointement types._

M: What website do you use for that?

P: VA.gov

M: Tell tell me about the last time you logged into the account. Why did you log on?

P: I was told I could access the website so yesterday I made sure I could get in by resetting my password.

M: Did you do anything else while you were logged in?

P: Um no, just looked at the different drop-down options. Mostly just making sure I had access.

_Begin screen sharing_

M: Can you show me how you check the status of a disability claim?

P: I'm walking you through how I log in. There are different options to login. I used my HealtheVet because there is no 2FA, I use DS login as well. I"ve seen challenges. I have used ID.me as well. There is an authentication app, but it doesn't work so I ask them to send me a text. _Signs in and receives error message_ I have never seen this error before.

_Participant is logged in a goes to My VA._

M: You had mentioned that you check on the status of your claim.

P: Yes, the last one was on Dec 21 of last year. That status is closed. I didn't appeal it. _My VA is clear for him and easy to see status of the claim._

M: Is this normally what you would do? Did you jjust log in and se this here?

P: Well, it's my last activity right? So that's why it came up as claims and appeals. They know I have a disability claim. _Scrolls down_ I am able to check prescriptions, schedule appointments and get medical records. Typically I see my payments and where its going to. Not more than just checking the status of a claim. I don't have much to interact with the VA at this point in time.

M: One thing I'm interested to know, is if you wanted to see the status of the claim and this information was not on this page. How would you find that information?

P: _Clicks menu button._ I would click on the plus button _expands mega menu_, click disability as an option and here it says file a claim but I click check a claim and appeals. _Page loads._ And it shows it has been closed. I can see all the previous claims I've had with the VA. I'm glad it's on the first page without me having to navigate it. it's pretty straightforward otherwise.

M: You also mentioned that you have had some interactions for health with VA. That you checked on past appointments.

P: Yeah, and I was able to find when I had my vaccine shot. So I believe it keeps a record of such and I was able to navigate to there, I believe.

M: Ok, show me how you found that information on the website.

P: I go to healthcare, _opens health care section in menu. View all Healthcare,_ its view lab and test results. Than it tells me to go to my HealtheVet page. It brings me to another website that is a little bit slower. I know I found it somewhere for last shots and where I had them. Lab's health histories. I don't remember where I got them, I am looking now. It shows my allergies reported. View more. This is strange, maybe medical events. _Continues exploring self-entered content pages on My HealtheVet_

M: Ok, I'm going to pause you here, and let's go back to that other website and see if you find it on VA.gov.

P: Well, if everything fails I would go to search, and use vaccine, maybe records as the key words. _Types vaccine records into site search._ Then it says to sign into the vet health website, and click on health records. Which I did I thought. It says to look for a blue button report, but I must of missed it. So I would just follow these steps here _referring to steps listed on vaccine page._ But the first thing I want to say is that it would give me the website, but thenI have to remember the steps I gotta do. I'd have to write it down or memorize it.

How does tht make you feel, that you'd have to do that?

Well, I mean, most websites do the same thing. They just give you a bunch of steps to do and it just gives you a link. OK, I have a link, but now I have to take a mental note of how to get to each one. _Reads steps_. I believe I went to health summary before, or immunizations, but I didn't see it. Do you want me to go back and see if I Can find it?

M: No, this is really helpful for the purposes of our session today. There's another thing I'm interested to see if you can find. If you, how would you double check any dependents you have on file with VA?

P: Um, click my name _clicks personalized menu_, and then Profile _clicks profile link_. If I don't find it, then I would do a search. I'm going to do the keyword search because it's not something that is coming up right away. _Types dependents into search._ View or change dependents _clicks first link. Immediately scrolls pasts view dependents button._ Oh, it says right here, view current dependents, I missed that maybe. _Clicks_ But yes, here it is

M: what was that experience like for you finding that information?

P: It was quite challenging, since I actually had to type a search. For me, it was OK since I'm familiar with keyword searching. But for others that might have been harder.

M: Right, ok. I noticed that you're using search as a back up when you can't find what you're looking for which is helpful for our team to understand. Now, I'd like for you to show me one more thing. Imagine you wanted to find out about any options for the VA to pay for you or any of your family members to take college courses. How would you do that?

P: Well, that falls under the category of educational benefits. If I wanted to search for it, I would click on benefits and health, and it would be under. I would go to education and training. I would go to eligibility first, (reading page) That is a lot of words to read and there's a link for the GI bill. I would like to enter information and just to be told if I qualify. Would you like me to give you feedback what I think about all of this?

M: You don't need to go into detail and read it. I'm curious – you said you wanted to enter a little information and find out if youre eligible. Can you say more about that?

P: Yeah, I'm looking at all this reading material, I have to read through, and and I don't see a link that's asking me to apply, so that is a little frustrating. I'm not reading through it all, but I don't see the link that allows me how to apply. The first paragraph it just says benefits and school and career. But if you're active duty veteran or _trails off_. I already used my GI bill.

M You already used your GI bill?

P: Yeah, so I don't know if there are additional benefits or schooling I could qualify for or anything else

M: How would you find that out?

P: Well it's in this page of course, and it's in this reading material.. Everything here refers to the GI Bill. _Reading_ Can I get educational benefits through VA other programs? I think that's the only thing I can chose. I see there are links to learn more, so I would click on those links if I watned.

M: What do you think about the fact that you're logged into the website and you are being shown this kind of information to answer your question about -

P: Well, this is not any kind of personal information. I don't think I need to be logged in to get this information. Only personalized information should I be required to be logged in.

M: I'm just curious if the fact that you're logged in and you see this kind of information, when you're trying to answer a question about what options are available to you, what your perception is of that.

P: Well, on the very bottom it says how to apply. I don't know why that would be at the very bottom. It gives you all these qualification paragraphs to read through. I don't think a lot of people would be interested in reading it. For me, I think some kind of screening questionnaire where you say yes/no, and it's kind of a tree that leads you to different paths. And I still don't know if I qualify for any benefits. I see post 9/11 GI bill, and I know I don't qualify for those.

M: Are there other websites that you use a username and password to log on?

P: Yes, I use all of them to manage my accounts, carrier, banking, dentist.

M: What do you expect to change when you log into it, compared to when you're logged out?

P: I'm not sure I understand the question.

M: What is different when oyu're logged int, compared to what you're logged out.

P: When you are logged out it is general accounts that you can apply for and interest rates. When you are logged in it shows the types of accounts you hold, account numbers, profiles, balances. It is more personalized of course. You could do funds transfers and so forth.

M: Ok, and the content changes, so what on the site indicates that change to you? Sounds like the content changes are one thing. Is there anything else?

P: Typically when you are logged in you see your name. It's personalized. Whether it be a hotel loyalty program, you see your name. of course you can use a screen name and password. And here, I see my name here with a down arrow and it shows my VA, my HealtheVet, profile and sign out.

M: After you logged in, how did your experience on VA.gov compare to that other website?

P: This website is not as graphical as most commercial websites. There are pictures, whether it be graphics or the name of the bank, or other attractive type of design. The government website is pretty much generalized and clean and dull. But functionality wise it's pretty decent. And of course, I like the security aspects of the sign-in process, so nobody can get into my account.

M: What about the content that you see? How does that align with your expectations considering the fact that you're logged in?

P: _menu is open_ first of all, everything I need to do is under VA benefits. I click the plus sign and it navigates me to all the different kinds of VA benefits I can get. And I then I can find the VA location, I use that too to find the closest clinic or hospital. I mean, I don't necessarily think I need to be logged in to see, well health records of course, but careers and employement – those are generalized information that if you qualify for it, you should get it. I don't think it requires a log in, but if it does I would change that. It should be public domain information

M: Should you see that generalized non personalized information when you're logged in.

P: I should see more personalized information when I'm logged in, I would imagine. Once I'm logged in they should know my profile, when I served, when I left the military. If you want me to tell you, when I went to education and employment. It talked about GI Bill, they should know if I've already redeemed such and what other educational benefits I might be entitled to. Which might be some other volunteer type of organizations. But, yeah, I didn't like where it says education and training, it didn't really tell me what I was – until the bottom where I clicked the link. That's where you can see if you qualify and can check for different things.

M: Thank you so much for your time, that's everything I wanted to ask you about today.
