# **P6, Logged-in IA and Nav Wayfinding Study**

M: I understand you are a [_Family member )_ Is that right?

P: Yes

M: And, according to my notes your spouse has disability benefits through VA. Is that correct?

P: Yes

M: Thanks for confirming that. Are there any other benefits or services that you receive?

P: Not at this time no.

M: Do you manage or access that benefit or service online at all?

P: I don't but I have access to my [spouses] account.

M: Ok, great, let's go ahead and get started.

_Participant types "vamedical" into a browser, and clicks to go to My HealtheVet. Goes goes through login process, has some difficulties but eventually signs into MHV._

M: Ok, I'd like for you to show me how you would check the amount he would receive for disability benefits. Since you are not familiar with the VA website I will have you start on the VA home page. From here where would you check the payment?

P: View your payment history.

M: If it wasn't there , how would you find it?

P: Um. I would go to claim or appeal status to see if they were approved.

M: Thoughts of having to login again

P: it is annoying. I understand why they need to do it to keep it confidential and safe. It might be different if the text was going to me instead of my spouses. Less annoying. It wouldn't be the same 6 digits correct.

What do you see here and can you find payments here: check claim or appeals if they are approved or not. It looks like I wouldn't find it there. Its not in there so if I go to My HealtheVet. Will myHealtheVet take me back without signing me out?

M: Thoughts as to expectations of finding the information here:

P: I think it would be together to see if it was approved and how much for even if it were only a percentage. Okay this is over to the other page so I would go to benefits. Under it is the payment history.

Are you able to find it without the link on the home page?

P: No, it doesn't state where it would be.

M: And if that was the case, what else would you try?

P: I would click on view payment history here. Then go to there. So, it shows the payments there.

Experience: I guess it was easier than I thought it was. This page it was easier because it states benefits and the other you have to go routes to find it.

How to increase the disability rating on the website: I would go back to that original page which I don't remember how I did it. I think first and foremost you'd need to make an appointment to have it on record and be evaluated to see if the claim would go up. Soi would schedule the appointment

M: How would you check if that was the case:

P: I would reach out to his doctor, by phone.

M: For the purposes of our session can you see if you can find that information online?

P: File for disability increase. Then I would go through these. You would need to file the claim to get it started than they would make the appointment

Feel like you found the information needed: Yes

M: How would you get to this page if the link was missing from the home page?

P: So, go back to this. Not this page but the other page _va.gov homepage_. Get your VA medical records, I guess you would need to check that and go from there with the claim.

M: Why would this be a place to look?

P: It has all of the claims that he has already put in for VA. _Reading_ Go to manage benefits and schedule an appointment, order hearing aid, no I don't want to do that. You could request a review or appeal for a new claim

M: Would that be the same as a disability increase?

P: well, they would need to review it to determine if you get an increase. I think you would need to request a decision review.

M: Do you feel confident in the information for a rating increase:

P: Yes.

M: Can you elaborate on why you feel confident based on what you see here?

P: once you put in the request to appeal you will have a doctor get in contact with you to get an appointment and get the ball rolling.

M: Thanks for showing that to me. Next, I'd like for you to show me how you would check dependents?

P: _Looking on VA.gov homepage, quiet._

M: Are you looking for anything in particular?

P: _Laughs._ Yes, but I'm probably not going to find it! I am looking for DEERS. I don't know exactly what it stands for, but I do know that's what we fall under me and my children, for our cards and stuff. Not a VA card but I have my owb military ID to get onto bases and stuff. _Reading links on homepage._ I am not finding where I would see that. Nope. Um, get records, _clicks get records page_ nope. (_Reading page_) I don't want to download anything. I see stuff for the GI bill, but I don't see where it would states where the dependents fall.

M: Where would you go now?

P: _Clicks My HealtheVet link in_ header. I feel like it should fall under records not healthcare or disability.

Tell me why: Well, I don't think we fall under healthcare or disability parts.

I think maybe education then and maybe he already applied for education. View history, change online. Find out how to add eligible dependents. Dependents would be in there, but they would need to be add.

Link just for new dependents: Adding them onto the GI bill yes.

IF you wanted to learn about options form the VA to pay for you or the children to take college classes: I wouldn't do it through VA I would do it through military one source. That's where I go if I have questions on my eligibility. Benefit and resources right there. It has more information when you actually sign on. Then you come here and say what you are, spouse, then I can look up my different benefits from there. Also, I can reach out and call to ask questions.

Logged in before: I have before and it extremely long. When he was deployed the last time, I used this a lot.

Back to va.gov, how would you find it if military one sources wasn't there: Maybe community. Nope.

Thoughts around choosing this option: I thought maybe it would be more like military one source to reach out and get the information.

M: _Guides participant back to VA.gov homepage._ I noticed when you were on this website and you couldn't find what you were looking for, you didn't use the navigation items up in the header.

P: No, I didn't notice them _laughs._ I was actually afraid that if I clicked everything outside of this _4 boxes on homepage_ I would get signed out. But no, I didn't notice them.

M: What about the search feature on top of the website?

P: I didn't notice that as well.

M: Do you use features like that on websites to find information typically?

P: Usually I'm able to find what I'm looking for but I didn't happen to see that. But now I see that it could be a good option.

M: Well it's so important for us to understand you didn't notice that, and part of it was because you didn't want to sign in and sign out again. There's another option next to the My HealtheVet option that you used, called My VA. Had you noticed that one?

P: No, I didn't.

M: I wanted to get your thoughts on this website compared to other websites you use to log in and access benefits or services you receive. Do you have any accounts like that?

P: Yes, banking. I use that regularly.

M: Ok, considering your banking website, can you talk to me about what is different about the website from when you are not signed in compared to when you are signed in?

P: You're only able to see the front screen page. You're not able to see what options are available for you or what they have for you. As far as different account types and whatnot.

M: can you describe visually what you see when you're signed in, vs when you're not signed in?

P: When I'm signed in it has all my accounts, and they have their own dropdowns of payments that Iv'e received or paid out, whatever.

M: How does that compare to your experience on this website?

P: I feel like you have to go through numerous, without using those top things I didn't notice, you'd have to click different links to get to what you actually want to see or what you're looking for.

M: Do you feel like the website reflects the fact that you're signed in?

P: _Hesitates_. No. I feel like this is kind of like, it feels like I'm not signed in because everything is not readily available to me. I have to go searching to find what I'm looking for.

M: Now that you are kind of aware of that heading area of the page, considering the fact that you are signed in, how does what you see line up with what you expect?

P: Well, I guess, I could probably get more information on what I really wanted if I went through My VA or the search button. I'd probably be able to find exactly what I was looking for, without going through all these different things down here _links on homepage._

M: What do you feel about the options available to you in the headings?

P: I probably feel like if I clicked on My VA, I probably would get all of the information, like when you sign into your bank account and everything is right there in front of you.

_Moderator ends session._
