# P7, Logged-in IA and Nav Wayfinding Study

_M:_ I understand you are a [_Veteran/Family member )_ Is that right?

P: Yes, me and my spouse are both veterans.

M: And, according to my notes you have healthcare through VA. Is that correct?

P: Yes.

M: Are there any other benefits or services that you receive?

P: Um, I can't think of specific ones, healthcare, disability. There's a bunch, I guess.

M: Do you manage or access that benefit or service online at all?

P: Yes, I go through the app to confirm appointments, and then I will go to va.gov to get medication refills, look up benefits sometimes like school. Even to browser what is available.

M: Tellme about the last time you logged into the account.

P: I logged in last night to make sure I knew my password but before that I logged in was a few days ago on the app because I got an email stating that you can refill prescriptions on the app now. I tried to log into the app and I couldn't find it. I couldn't find it though and I even made sure I have the most up to date app.

M: Do you recall the last time you logged into VA.gov?

P: Probably a month or so when I refilled medication.

Start screen sharing

M: Can you show me how you Refill prescriptions online?

P: Actually, I need to do that now. I go to va.gov, _dismisses new homepage prompt_ wouldn't try that right now. _Opens sign in modal via header_ I would login with DS login, since that's the one I remember. This (2fa) I don't do because I don't know the app and I don't want to download another one. It will send me a test. This is a little slow, maybe because of zoom on. _My VA loads_ To refill I will normally click that link right there _mouses over link on My VA for Rx refills_. And, if that wasn't there it would be under here _VA Benefits and health care menu item, clicks to open, then clicks Health care ._under healthcare. Then I would go right here _mousing over link in mega menu_ to refill.

M: I'd like to see how to see you'd find something else on the website. How would you find out you are getting other benefits like disability from VA?

P: I mean, I didn't know if that's what you meant by benefits. Like am I getting education. I haven't signed up for it but know I am eligible. Let's see I would go here apply for VA benefits _click what does VA offer_ and I would go through all of this. _Looking at Edu elgibility page, after clicking from My VA_ FAQ I have looked at this./ I get disability compensation, health care, I know the VA pension is different than the military. I have looked at this like service member and family member benefits.

Education benefits: I know I am eligible, click on find out if you are eligible. I would read this. I switched to the post 9/11 GI bill. I have signed up for it up I do not get it right now.

M: You said you have disability compensation. How to find appeal or claims in progress on this website?

P: Where did that go? I know it is there where it said 100 percent at the top, _returns to My VA,_ you can click the rating (_clicks_) and then you can go to check claims and appeal and there it is.

M: What if it wasn't linked?

P: I would go to disability _clicks VA benefits and health menu, then disability,_ and then check your claim or appeal status _mouses over link in mega menu_.

M: How would you double check any dependents you have on file with VA?

P: _Hesitates_ That would probably be under my profile, I think. Maybe not. Well profile is like contact information. I'm hesitant. It may be under there too. _Reads links on left nav in profile._ None of these are really, I didn't know we could update this ok, I'll have to come update my stuff. Under my profile it said My VA ._clicks My VA link in heading._ If it wasn't with the links [on the page] maybe family member benefit here (_in first level mega menu navigation)_. I would search _opens search, then closes and clicks My VA link in heading,_ no it should be here, I shouldn't need to search for that.

M: Why shouldn't you have to search for that?

P: That should be under my profile, or in one of these things here _mousing over My VA items_ because it is basic information about who is loaded. For me, I know, _hesitates,_ for disability I get it for my spouse but they have their own. So I don't know if it would be under disability. _Scrolling up and down My VA looking for content._ Yeah, I don't know.

M: I heard you say I don't know. What would you do at this point?

P:: I am kind of just looking though these. [links on My VA]. I would search family member _questioning_ info? _Types family member info into search._ Like how you update things. _Reviews results._ Yeah, none of these things are helping me. I know it is listed under my disability. _Opens mega menu, clicks Disabiltiy \> View all in disability_ I am looking for something that says member benefit. _Reviwing content on disability hub landing page._ There is add or review dependent. _Scrolls down, and then back up._ Ok, That should show me who I have loaded. _Lands on View or change dependents page._ And right there, I can view them. That should not be that hard to find.

M: Yeah, talk to me about that. How was that experience of finding that information for you?

P: That was very painful, and it should not be that hard to find. It should be easy to find. I found it eventually. The search wasn't any help. I kind of figured it out. I knew I get extra money for [my spouse] as a dependent for disability so I knew it would be listed under there somewhere and that's why I went there. If it wasn't there, I would probably stop and come back later because it is frustrating.

M: Why shouldn't it be that hard to find?

P: I mean that's your basic information that they need to know about you. Who are you and who else are we giving you money for? For your benefits. Maybe I missed it under profile, but that should be listed if you need to edit it. I don't remember seeing it [in the profile] and this is very clear. If I did miss it, I was just being spacy.

M: A few minutes ago you said it should be under one of these things here, and you put your cursor over the right side of the screen. Can you specifically say what you were referring to?

P: I honestly don't remember, I think I may have been on a different page.

M: You were, if you click on my VA, and you said it should be under one of these thigns here.

P: _Scrolling down My VA._ It should be somewhere over here, or under my profile. It should be here _side navigation_ listed as dependents. Or, it should be under personal information tab. _Reading items,_ Like if I had kids or something it should be here, right under it [under disability rating].

M: One more thing I wanted to follow up with you about. Can you click on your name in the top right corner? What are your thoughts on the options available to you here from this menu?

P: My VA and profile kind of go hand in hand to me. Maybe not. I don't know. My VA should be my stuff, my profile. It just seems like it could be incorporated somewhere. My Health, I still need to play with My HealtheVet. Sometimes you go over there and you can't do stuff over there, so I just log into the VA directly. It's been a minute since I've gone over to my HealtheVet. But this _my health link_ just goes to appointments and records, I think. There aren't too many choices here.

M: Is that ok?

P: It seems redundant. Because you have [points out repetitive links in header, and in menu]. To me, just have the sign out button here and get rid of all these other options, Or get rid of all these other buttons, and make this _personalized menu_ worth something. I don't know. There's not a lot of choices there.

M: When you were talking about My VA, you said, this is My VA, this is my stuff. Can you elaborate on what you mean by this is My Stuff?

P: This is _clicks to go back to My VA_. This is stuff that pertains to me. This is my next appointment, my prescriptions, debt is how much I'm getting. This is MY VA, this is stuff that the VA is giving me, the VA cares for me, the benefits that I get. The dependents and stuff should be go to your profile. But there really isn't too much on this page _my va_. So why can't you kind of combine it. If it was a huge page and there is tons of information, I understand that. But if you go my profile, it's just a bunch of links and it brings up something else. Why don't you put these links under My VA somewhere and combine the two.

M: What would the benefit of that be?

P: Less hunting, more streamlined, easier to find things. I do like how it opens on My VA as soon as you sign in, it makes it really easy. Or it had this up here, or something. I think this page is very helpful _my va,_ because it has a lot of information. It just seems like there's a lot of white room over here, I don't know if that's because of my screen. There's a lot fo space that could be better utilized.

M: That's all really helpful. I want to take us back to the education page that we were on previously. _Guides participant back to edu eligibility page._ We were looking at this page and talking about what you're eligible for. And I'm curious about your thoughts on this page considering the fact that you're logged into the website.

P: Okay. Oh, right because it says are you eligible., and then _scrolling down._ This is telling you about it , well, it's talking about elgibility, so I guess there should be something here. There should be a link or something here that says check my benefits. If I click this I think it's just going to tell me more about it (referring to _learn more link._ This it will just tell me more about it. Since I am logged in it should be check your benefits or maybe something that shows how much I have left. It is a lot of scrolling, and a lot of good info, but it is a lot of scrolling here. Then applying, if you want to apply that's fine. If there was, I missed it because it does says manage benefits here _mousing over side navigation_. And it is in the menu. I suppose it could be made easier to see. Have more than one link. Like find out what you are eligible for.

M: So it sounds like you're thinking maybe it could have a link or a button as a logged in person to check on your own specific situation.

P: yes.

_M:_ What are other websites that you use a username and password to log on?

P: Amazon, what else. Work spread sheets, mortgage, um yeah.

M: Let's keep those examples in mind. What is different about those websites when you log in compared to when you're logged out?

P: Um, when I am logged in vs logged out. _Thinking_ Logged in, I think its, well with amazon it doesn't show me things based on what I've bought before. But for mortgage if I am signed out it just shows me the products or services that are available to sign up for but when logged in it has a dashboard page with my next payment, how much I owe, if I want to change information, update billing, but when not logged in what do you want to do we got you.

M: What are your thoughts on having two totally different experiences?

P: : it makes sense because if you are logged out it doesn't know who you are, if you're new or returning customer. Somtimes it is a pain to find the login button, there are some sites where I have to favorite the login page. When you're logged in, I like having that dashboard. like myva it shows you up top, and the disability rating, I like that. And then the things that are relevant to you it will show you. I would expect that. Say the mortgage, for example, I log in, and it is the same thing and I have to hunt to find my information. It's kinda like, save me some time, it should be, I'm a customer, you already know what I have, make it easy to find other things. It should be focused on the products and services I already have because that is what I will have most questions on.

M: How does your experience on VA.gov compare to what you have on the other websites?

P: I'm just going to go to the homepage _returns to VA.gov homepage._ I like it. These are the things you're going to use the most, these are the things that most people, these are what they need right away. And then with My VA, I like that kind of dashboard thing. Eventually _slow loading_. And then you can see the most important stuff right there. _Reads items on My VA_. I don't know, I like it. I think it's very…it could be streamlined a little better, like what I said with My VA vs My Profile. The homepage has quick links and stuff like that.

M: What is your thought about the education page? It doesn't seem to know who you are or what you already have. Does that matter to you?

P: Well, this one _goes back to edu menu_. I think I missed it the first time, it does say check your benefits. But if I go to elgibilty, it's kind of under the get benefits. It's telling me eligibility. It's explaining eligibility, and if I want to go to mine, it would be nice if there was a link if you want to see your benefits. _Reads links on the page._ It would be cool if there was an easier link or a button, because if I check eligibility, I obviously clicked on the wrong thing. It would be nice if there was a shortcut to wehre I'm supposed to go.

M: It doesn't seem like you are overly troubled that it's not there.

P: Like I said, I think there should be another link. I'd have to look under My VA, I don't know if I clicked it under My VA, but if I clicked it under education here, you have no…like under education and training, it should be like "your benefits". Not "learn how to apply". I don't want to learn how to apply, I want to see what my benefits are. I understand here, it's going to explain it. I do think there needs to be another button, a shortcut to it. And tehre definitely needs to be something under My VA. Because now I'm kind of under MY va. You need to show me MY benefits.

M: The last question I have, if you could take a moment and review the top portion of the website, how does what you see line up with your expectations, considering the fact that you're logged in?

P: That I'm logged in _thinking_ I wish the My VA page was the homepage. Under healthcare, it has refill and track prescriptions, but the My VA page shows my next appointment. And it also has these links. It should be incorporated together. If I click on My VA, it's just going to show me the same stuff. And the same thing that's under education – change your education benefits, view your payment history – how about view your education benefits? I still don't know what I have. Incorporate these links here _links in top 4 boxes_, over on My VA. And education and training – where are all those links? Why don't you have an education and training section (on my VA) with all those links?

M: Thank you, that is all super helpful. _Ends session._
