# P9, Logged-in IA and Nav Wayfinding
4/3/23
**Moderator:** Before we start, I want to confirm that you are a Veteran and a Veteran’s family member.

I’m a veteran.

**Moderator:** Do you have a family member that you care for too?

No, it’s just me.

**Moderator:** OK, and I understand you have disability and health benefits. Are there any other benefits or services that you receive?  

No. Well, I guess I did chapter 31 voc rehab.

**Moderator:** OK, great. Do you manage or access any of those services online at all?

I do. I make appts, send messages to my providers, I do my prespcriptions.

**Moderator:** Ok, what website do you use to do those things?

I go to My HelatheVet (MHV)

**Moderator:** What about your disability benefits or voc rehab? Did you use any website for that?

**P9:**Yes, when I did the voc rehab, every semester you have to submit some information. So I did that online. As far as like, sometimes, depending on what I’m trying to apply for. Like, when I applied to not pay the taxes on the care I recently bought. I had to go to the website to print off my 100% disability compensation so they could see I’m 100% disabled.

**Moderator:** OK got it. So based on everything you’ve said, you definitely have an online account to do these things. Can you tell me about the last time you logged into the account and what you did?

**P9:** Last week, and I was checking my upcoming appts.

**Moderator:** Ok, did you do anything else while you were logged on?

**P9:** No, not last week.

**Moderator:** Ok thank you. That’s all very helpful and we’ll use that information as we move forward. At this point I’ll have you share your screen.

*Screen sharing set up*

**Moderator:** The first thing I wanted to have you show me is what you did the last time you logged in. You mentioned you were checking on your upcoming appointments, and I see you already have the My HealtheVet website pulled up. Is this where you normally go, as a first step?

**P9:** Yes, I do. And it’s so annoying to me, but I do.

**Moderator:** Can you say more about why it’s so annoying?

**P9:** It seems like you’re duplicating steps. And when I try to sign in - OK so I’ll show you. *Clicks sign in button in header*

**P9:** I tried to use this new option to sign in (New VA Sign In), and it never works.  So I use this one *mouses over MHV log in, and clicks* and I have to put in my information *enters UN and PW, clicks sign in* Then it comes up this *mouses over appointments section and clicks into messages*, so this shows my appointments. Or messages I sent to the physicians. But normally, it’ll take me back out and I have to start over again.  People have been telling me about this new two-step process that’s not supposed to be as cumbersome or complicated but then this takes me back about, and I have to start all over again.

**Moderator:** That does sound frustrating. Well I’m going to have you go to a different website because I’m curious to see how you get tot he things you need to do from a different place. *Guides participant to VA.gov*

**Moderator:**  I noticed you have this website bookmarked. Do you use it regularly?

**P9:** I do

**Moderator:** What kinds of things do you from this website?

**P9:** This is where I pull up the letter that shows my disability rating, my letters.

**Moderator:** OK. From here where would you go to check your appointments?

**P9:** This is what I’m saying. If I sign in here *participant is no longer signed in, clicks sign in button in header* so this is the one I try to use, this ID me, but it never lets me. Something happens, I can never get into that one. I get frustrated and stop. So I go back to the old one, and then I have to sign in again. *Clicks MHV button, goes to MHV sign in screen*

**P9:** Do you want me to sign in again?

**Moderator:** No, not from here. That is so weird. Let’s go back to VA.gov. *Participant navigates to VA.gov via bookmark* Ok, so from this page, if you sit down at your computer and you want to check your appointments you would sign in and expect to be taken to MHV. Am I understanding that correctly?

**P9:** Yes

**Moderator:**Ok, before you sign in again, I would like to see if you can find an away to check those appointments, using another part of the website to see if you can find that information.

**P9:** *Scrolls down and clicks on appointment link from homepage*

**Moderator:**OK, let’s see if you sign in this way if it’ll keep you signed in, and on this website.

**P9:** *Clicks sign in CTA on appointment page* So again, I go back to this. *Goes through MHV sign in process, is redirected to VAOS*

**Moderator:**Ok, it does look like it kept you signed in and you won’t have to go through that again. Continue, please

**P9:** *Clicks CTA to view appointments*

**Moderator:**Have you been here before?

Yes, but it didn’t look like this.

**Moderator:**OK, can you share a bit about what that experience was like, going from that link you clicked to this page?

I was about ready to quit.

**Moderator:**Can you say more about why?

**P9:**It seems like it takes a long time, and then it also seems to me like I said, you’re duplicating steps. Maybe now it won’t seem like I’m duplicating steps, but before it seemed like I was duplicating the first initial steps of having to sign in, and go to the site.

**Moderator:**Yeah, that makes sense, you did have to sign in a couple of different times. One other thing I’m curious about - you clicked a link from the homepage to get here. If that link wasn’t on the homepage of VA.gov, how would you find that information?

**P9:** Hesitates. I don’t know. If it didn’t have the link to send me there. How would I find it on the computer, I don’t know?

**Moderator:**Would you try to find it on the computer? 

**P9:**I would, but just with you asking me, I don’t know because I haven’t tried to do it. I don’t know where I would search.

**Moderator:**Is search your default if you can’t find what you’re looking for?

**P9:** Yeah, I would have to look through different pages to see where it would direct me to my appointments.

**Moderator:**Ok, got it. I’m going to go ahead and have you try a couple of other things. We’ve got little over 15 minutes left in our session. Now I’d like to ee how you go about finding something else on the website. You had mentioned that you got a letter to show your disability rating. Can you show me how you go about doing that.

**P9:** Clicks breadcrumb to go to homepage. This section right here, where it says disability, and then it gives me the links *reads links*, and then this one, which is where I went, it says Records, and it says download your benefit letters. And so I click on that link *clicks to download letters page*, and it takes you to where you can download your benefit letters.  And then I would go here to view my letters and pick out which letters I want.

**Moderator:**I’m going to have you go back to the homepage where you started. And if that link for those records wasn’t on this page, can you try to find it on the website.

**P9:** *scrolls down to lower half of homepage* 

**Moderator:**Can you think outlaid and tell me what you’re looking for?

**P9:** If this was the homepage and that link wasn’t there, I’m just looking for something, I would scan this whole homepage to see if there’s anything that says. Hey look here if there’s anything that would tell you about your records or benefits. And when I come down I see this one here, this indicator that says Records and this icon. So I would click that first to see if that would bring me closer to anything that I’m looking for. And once I got to this page, I would do the same thing. Scan it, read to see if this page contains what I need, and here it just says download letters, so I would click this, confirm your benefit status, to see if that’s where I could get the letters from.  And then it brought me to that Get your VA benefits letters.

**Moderator:**OK, thank you for showing that to me.  There a couple other things I’d like to get your feedback on have you show me how you’d do them. Can you please show me how you would double check any dependents you have on file with VA?

**P9:** *Clicks back to home via breadcrumb, scrolls down page* What I’m doing now again, is looking for what you’re asking. 

**Moderator:**Are there particular words  or phrases you’re trying to find?

**P9:**  this family member benefits, *mousing over links* I would probably start with service member benefits.

Ok, and why is that?
**Moderator:**
**P9:** Because I’m looking for dependents to see what dependents are there. So just using this, I would probably start with this *clicks on service member benefit link, reviews page*. This is not it. *Goes back to home via breadcrumb, clicks family member benefits link, and scrolls down* So I’m just reading now *scrolls through page*. Ok, so this is not it. *Uses browser back button, and scrolls back to bottom of homepage, clicks records* Now I’m going to records, because I didn’t see anything on either one of those. *Reviews content on records page, clicks link to download benefits and letters*

**Moderator:**Do they include dependent information on any of your letters?

**P9:** I’ve never seen it, of course my kids are grown now. I never..*trails off and clicks link for Search military history records* Now everything I’m looking at is totally new. I’ve never been here.  Well, that’s not it.

**Moderator:**It sounded like that wasn’t what you expected. What did you expect when you clicked on that?

**P9:** I thought maybe it would show dependents because it said historical, and my kids are adults now.

**Moderator:**So you thought it was your historical information?

**P9:** Yes. *Continues searching, clicks VA benefits and health care menu, looks at Recods and selects download benefit letters from records menu* I don’t know. I’m lost with this one.

**Moderator:**Ok. And what woudlyou  at this point if you couldn’t find the information? 

**P9:** I would call the VA. I don’t know the number by heart but I would give them a call. *Clicks My VA from the header*

**Moderator:**Oh, I noticed you clicked something. Where are you trying to go?

**P9:** Oh, I’m just still looking.

**Moderator:**Have you ever been to this page before?

**P9:** Never

**Moderator:**I’d be curious to hear your thoughts on this page now that you’re here.

**P9:** I didn’t know this was here *hovers over travel reimbursement link* Request travel reimbursement. I still fit out the little paper and put it in the box. So this is something I’d be interested in looking at. *scrolls down the page* Hmm. Yeah, so I still didn’t see anything that I would use for that [view dependents]

**Moderator:**No problem, for the purposes of our session our team is interested to know how you go about looking for that information so it’s really helpful to see the things that you tried and what made sense to you to find that information.  I have one ore thing that I’d like for you to show me. I know you used Voc Rehab benefits, and if you wanted to find any options for the VA to pay for you or your grown children to get edu benefits, how would you do that?

**P9:** *goes back to homepage scrolls to EDU box* Here where it says education, and apply for benefits. You have to go there, and it just tells you what the requirements are. It tells you both for you and any dependents that are eligible. You have to go fill out a form whether you’re doing 31 or 36. When I intiitaly did mine, I was under 31. When I became 100%, because they backdated it, I was able to go back and take off some off y daughters student loan debt. 

**Moderator:**Oh that’s cool

**P9:** Yeah, that was something I found out about 2 years ago, is that they would retro some of her student loan debt. And then here’s the form *scrolls down to edu benefit form*

**Moderator:**Are those kinds of benefits and things available to all Veterans or does it depend on your personal situation, what you’re able to get? 

**P9:** I think it’s a case by case basis. You know, they may have a certain criteria for certain things. Everybody can’t, your child an’t go unless you’re 100%. Because you won’t qualify as the Veteran for 31 unless you’re able to be retrained into another career based on whoever your disability is.

**Moderator:**How would you find information on this website that applied to your specific case?

**P9:** Once you fill out the application, once you submit it online, they come back, it didn’t take too long when I did my daughters. Maybe about 2 weeks, and they came back with a decision. But when I first did chapter 31 you went to VBA, you could still go in then. So I went in and actually spoke to a counselor.  

**Moderator:**So on the website, from your experience, the only way to get information to get information about specifically is to fill out the form online?

**P9:** Yes. You can call and talk to someone but they’re going to send you to the website and complete the documentation.

**Moderator:**That is all very helpful. We have 4 minutes left and I want to ask you a few follow up questions before we wrap up.




**Moderator:** I noticed when you couldn’t find what you were looking for, the benefit letters and scheduling appointments, and we talked about if the link wasn’t on the homepage where would you go. You didn’t try to use the search feature on the website, or really the navigation items that you used later. I’m wondering if you can reflect on that with me, and share a little bit about your thoughts in looking for information on the website?

You’re talking about the search box right here? *moues over screen*

**Moderator:** Yes

**P9:** Habit, *laughs* it’s just habit.

**Moderator:** Ok, that makes sense. You’re just used to having the information on the homepage?

**P9:** Yes. And me being of a different era, a different way, I’m used to just reading instead of typing something into a search box.

**Moderator:** I’m curious if you use any other website that use a username or a password to log in.

**P9:** I do.

**Moderator:** Let’s think about your banking website as an example. What do you expect to be different about the website when you log in, compared to the website when you are not logged in.

**P9:** Say that in a different way for me.

*moderator rephrases question until participant understands*

**P9:** They’re different. If I’m just looking at the homepage of a website, it’s going to be different when I log in, because then it’s going to take me to my actual information. I’m not sure if I answered that.

**Moderator:** I can see that it would be the case once you logged in. What does the webpage look like to you when you’re signed in?> How do you know it’s your stuff?

**P9:** I see my name, my bank account, a guesstimated amount of money that I think should be there. I see the transactions that I’ve made, so that lets me know that I’m in my account.

**Moderator:** Ok and thinking about your experience on this website, how did your experience here compare to what you see on your banking website?

**P9:** My experience here is different in that, keep in mind the way I signed in, it’s a little bit frustrating and cumbersome. And once I sign in, it’s the same [as the bank]. Because I’m looking for whether it’s my name, my disability percentage, my medications, my physicians name, I’m looking for that familiar thing to say, ok you’re in the right place.

**P9:** But what I would like to see, when you had me log in, how would that differ once I log out now, from when I logged in before?

**Moderator:** You’re saying if you logged out now? *P9 is on EDU how to apply page*

**P9:** Yes, if I logged back in Remember when you first had me log on and I went to MHV, and then I signed in, and then *thinking* I think I went to my appointments. And I had to log in again. So now is that going to be different, if I log out now?

**Moderator:** You know, I”m not sure! The website didn’t behave the way I expected it to when you first lined in. But if you have extra time, and you want to log out and log back in, and see what happens, we can see how that aligns with what you expect. What do you think will happen?

**P9:** I think I will have to do all those steps again *logs out and logs back in from homepage*

**Moderator:** Earlier you when you were talking, you listed some items that are about you *lists items*. Do you feel like the website is about you based on what you’ve seen so far?

**P9:** Signed in or not?

**Moderator:** Signed in.

**P9:** I do. *Goes through sign in process, is redirected to My VA*

**Moderator:** Is this what you expected?

**P9:** No, but this is good. 

**Moderator:** What’s good about it?

**P9:** It takes me to my personal page. Which here, has my name, branch of service. Basically everything is here without me having to log in again. When I go here, it’s telling me that I have one message, which I saw. But here, this is easier than the way I was logging in before. Like I said, it has *this pagements* but it’s all right here at your fingertips. This initial page. This was, whatever you just did or showed me, is a definite plus for me. I’m going to sign out if that’s ok.

**Moderator:** One more question while you have that open (personalized menu), what do you think about those options?

**P9:** I like this *scrolls down* this is good, because this is what we’re looking for. This its the first thing appointments, and then if we need our medications refilled.

**Moderator:** Actually, I was wondering about the menu when you click on your name *personalized menu* What do you think of those options available to view under your name.

**P9:** These are OK. I don’t know - I’m going to click this *my VA* because I don’t know what’s going to happen. I’m going to see what this is. *clicks My VA link and page reloads*

**Moderator:** What do you think about this?

**P9:** Ok *scrolling* so that’s that. *Clicks My Health option in personalized menu*

**Moderator:** I think that’s going to take you over to MHV

**P9:** So, I mean. Again, this is when I talk about duplication. Because on the My VA are those same things. I guess it’s OK. I won’t say I dislike it, but if I’m just trying to do something simple, maybe get my medications, and you give me this My VA option as well as My Health option, if they’re essentially the same information, why give me two choices of the same thing? If I’m clicking this, I’d be looking to see something different.

**Moderator:** Yeah, I see what you’re saying. Well this has been really helpful, and I’m sorry to have kept you over the scheduled time.

**P9:** That’s ok. I appreciate, like I said, I like this *my va* right here better than what I was doing before. And I know if I click My Health it’ll take me back to my familiar setting, but this is much better right here, and I didn’t have to log in twice.

*end session* 
