# February 28, 2025 Medallia PCI Report Summary

Created: March 3, 2025

This is an analysis of Veteran feedback from Medallia on PCI from **February 16, 2025 - February 28, 2025**. 

Feedback from Veterans is captured via Medallia. This report queries Medallia for comments that originated from the use of the in-app survey on the appointments-pre-check-in and appointment-check-in URLS & their sub URLS.


## Notable Comments


**Like PCI**

> This system is great. Check in and travel



**Staff not using PCI even though Veterans are**

> I had an 8am appointment. I received a text from the VA to check in online at 7:30. I used it considering I was already in the parking lot. At 8:17 am I get a call from the VA saying I no-showed my appointment even though I’m sitting in the waiting area. The desk tells me they do not use the system. What’s the point of sending me a text to check in online if it’s not going to work

> Checked in on line a little after 0800.  Submitted my travel reimbursement,  received confirmation at 0806.  Waited to be called till 0830 then checked with the desk because I was still waiting.   The desk clerk informed me that I had to give her my VA Card and that is why I haven't been called for my appointment.


**Staff not contacting Veterans when appointments are canceled**

> Lab appt was canceled.  3rd time lack of communication cost me hours away from Job.  They claim I got a voice mail but no record.    Lab scheduled2/27/25 for today at 8.

**Trouble updating contact info**

> Confirm appt and information on file. However, the information is incorrect and there's no way online to correct that "important contact information". The website seems to be developed by someone who's never had to use it and subpar.  I highly recommend spending a bit of money to hire someone who actually knows Howard to code.

