# January 31, 2025 Medallia PCI Report Summary

Created: January 31, 2025

This is an analysis of Veteran feedback from Medallia on PCI from **January 16, 2025 - January 31, 2025**. 

Feedback from Veterans is captured via Medallia. This report queries Medallia for comments that originated from the use of the in-app survey on the appointments-pre-check-in and appointment-check-in URLS & their sub URLS.


## Notable Comments

**Like PCI**

> Check in for an appointment AND submit my travel reimbursement. PLEASE keep the travel reimbursement system working this way (sending a link via text) as doing it online is more grueling and a pain.



**Staff not using PCI even though Veterans are**

> What’s the point of having electronic text messaging check in if you still have to notify the appointment clerk that you’ve arrived?  I’ll know not to use the text messaging services from now on.

**Facilities still using QR Codes Long wait times at check in or no staff at check in counter**

> Still nobody to check in with. Two people were called and are being processed. Others (I count 12) who have been here longer were bypassed.

> I was asked to be here 15 minutes before 0700. Nobody is here, and my digital internet check-in did not work.


**Trouble updating contact info**

> I’ve asked at least 10 times to update my spouse address and it still shows PII_STATE?

> I need to change my emergency contact's phone number and it would'nt let me.

> Update next of kin records.  Why does  a staff member need to do it?  Why can't I update my emergency information on-line?

> Also, could not enter my next of kin information.

> Cannot change phone numbers, addresses and next of kin.

> Wasn't able to Edit Son's Address.  PII_ADDRESS

> System asked if my information was correct and I tapped NO. Then the system took me to the next screen without letting me correct the errors of my information

> Change Emergency Info on Ap. Should be simple but said to see clerk.

> I would like to update my contact information & emergency contact.  Your link asked the questions but doesn’t allow corrections

> Cannot edit contact information. I have mentioned this before. Was told to tell folks at my next appointment. Did that. Nothing changed. Hello, is anybody listening?

> I attempted to correct email address during a previous visit. How do I get the information into the system?

> Confirm appt.    Add contact info, edit info Why do I have to have someone else change it for me ????   Change the site so I can do it!!!’ It’s no one’s business but MINE …….

> Check in and appointment confirmation.  I have an issue that seriously needs consideration.  Please allow Veterans the ability to UPDATE our NOK & EMERGENCY POC on this page.

**Too many notifications**

> How many reminders?  This is the second text message and yesterday I received a phone call.  Once I respond there is no reason for all the messages!  Annoying!



