# February 15, 2025 Medallia PCI Report Summary

Created: February 15, 2025

This is an analysis of Veteran feedback from Medallia on PCI from **February 1, 2025 - February 15, 2025**. 

Feedback from Veterans is captured via Medallia. This report queries Medallia for comments that originated from the use of the in-app survey on the appointments-pre-check-in and appointment-check-in URLS & their sub URLS.


## Notable Comments

**Like PCI**

> Checkin and travel claim completed in a smooth and efficient manner using this site. Site was user friendly and allowed me to do travel claim while waiting and not forget about it. Thank you for all the VA does to making our lives easier.

> This is the first time I’ve received this prior to a VA appointment. I’m so glad that this is being implemented, and hopefully this will be used prior to all VA appointments in the future! Thank you!!!

> Check in for appointment via text saying to check in was Awesome! No stopping from entrance to Dr office! Love this option

> Love it , would be nice if the data automatically went to the next box as typing or aloud auto fill


**Trouble updating contact info**

> I’ve tried to update my emergency contact several times with no luck. Asking me to confirm wrong information is pointless if it never changes.

> Clicked that spouse info incorrect and did not take me to edit screen. Seems it would take me to screen to edit info

> The contact information for next of KEN was incorrect and I couldn’t change it. I’ve tried to do this. The last couple times I was at the VA. Very frustrating that we keep doing some of the same stuff over and over again… The left hand, never talks to the right hand…

> Tried to check in but couldn’t because I needed to update my next of kin, but couldn’t do it.

> I need to update my spouse contact information including address and phone numbers. The site would not allow me to update the information.

> Check in. You requested me to verify my emergency contact information; none given on your form. No way to update.

> I was using the online check in but noticed my wife's name is spelled wrong. Apparently there was no way for me to correct it. At the specialty clinic they stated that it is spelled correctly in their system and could not explain nor correct the error.

> Check in online stopped because my spouse’s information was incorrect, instead of allowing me (the Vet)  to update her address.

> Update my emergency contact information.  It would be great if I could update my emergency contact info via this app or even an online.

> I answered no to all three pages of contact info but it wouldn't let me change it.  Thanks for checking in.  If someone says info isn't correct, need to be able to update it.

> Update my emergency contact information. Which is out dated This app refused to update the information.



**Issues verifying identity**

> It could not find me in the system!

> I was attempting to sign into the application. It failed. Said it did not find me. I signed into the front desk instead.





**Too many notifications**

> I will be at my VA appointment. I am not going to be exchanging my personal info over the internet, such a s my birth date. There is no reason for this nonsense.  It's already too much that I am contacted via text several times asking if I will be there, and I must reply again and again.

> Waste of my time....  fill out online form... nobody fucking reviews them.  10 reminders for the same fucking appointment.   You guys SUCK!

> TOO MANY NOTIFICATIONS, email, texts, US MAIL ALL FOR THE SAME APPOINTMENT



