# April 2, 2024: Form field removal pre-CCB
*Ask VA VA.gov Team*

## Attendees

- Ask VA VA.gov: Becky Phung, Tyler gindraux
- CRM: Chris Clemens, Wandy Espana, Maria King, Jaime Rocha, Tamara Kanterman
- BVA: Katherine Forde, Keturah McGhee

## Summary

- We recommended removing gender and reason you're contacting us.
- They clarified whether removing these fields would impact whether they know if a Veteran, dependent or someone on behalf of a Veteran has submitted a question. Becky clarified this will not be impacted.
- They have no issues removing the recommended fields.

## Actions

- [ ] No actions

## Notes

- Split inquiry (Tamara)
  - Tamara: “Should we change how this is calculated? By original inquiry creation date or split inquiry creation date.”
  - Keturah: “I’m not sure how many we see, most of what we get comes directly. I have to double check with the team to provide a better answer. I haven’t run into an issue with it the way that it is.”
  - Tamara: “When you do receive split inquiries, are you able to meet your 7 day deadline?”
  - Keturah: “Yes, generally.”
  - Decision: Keep split inquiry as is.
- Review of portal fields (Becky)
  - Keturah: “For my own knowledge, when we were building this plan out for the new Ask VA, a lot of these fields were voted on and discussed at that time. I believe that some of the fields outside of claim number, ID number, were utilized because people were trying to narrow down the Veteran and ensure there wasn't any confusion as to who was asking the question. Is that no longer necessary?”
  - Chris: “If that happened, that would be an authenticated inquiry. Would you even answer that one?”
  - Keturah: “It depends. Sometimes we get contacted by kids, spouses. They have their partner’s information. They’re asking on their behalf. We might not answer it through Ask VA. But it does alert us that there might have been mail submitted or something.”
  - Becky: Clarified that you would still have data like ‘My inquiry is about myself.’
  - Keturah: “It does provide background information.”
  - Becky: Clarified again.
  - Keturah: “Then I have no issues.”
  - Kate: “No issues.”
- Issues (Tamara)
- Confirmation of inquiry submission emails are not being sent
- We’re receiving several inquiries a day where the submitter email is blank
- Inquiries over 25 days for BVA: 2

