teams/vsa/teams/benefits-memorials/bam-product-outline.md, before:

# Product Outline: Benefits and Memorials
- GitHub Label: vsa-benefits
- Slack channel: vsa-benefits-memorial
- VA.gov link: n/a
- Demo video link: n/a
- Product POCs: Andrea Schneider (andrea.schneider@va.gov) and Yana Roy (yroy@governmentcio.com or yana.roy@va.gov)
- [Product Folder](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/tree/master/teams/vsa/teams/benefits-memorials)
- [Team Charter and Roadmap](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/blob/master/teams/vsa/teams/benefits-memorials/charter.md)
---

### Table of Contents

# Executive Summary 
- [User Problem Statement](#user-problem-statement)
- [Solution Goals](#solution-goals)
- [Assumptions](#assumptions)
- [Requirements and Constraints](#requirements-and-constraints)
- [Discovery Takeaways](#discovery-takeaways)
- [Solution Approach](#solution-approach)
- [Value Propositions](#value-propositions)
- [KPIs](#kpis)
- [Features](#features)
  - [Decision Review: Higher Level Review and Notice of Disagreement](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/tree/master/products/decision-reviews)
  - [Original Claims](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/tree/master/products/original-claims)
  - [Benefits Delivery at Discharge](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/tree/master/products/disability/disability-compensation-claim/bdd)
  - [Claim Status API](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/tree/master/products/claim-appeal-status/claim-status-api)
  - [Notice of Disagreement](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/tree/master/products/decision-reviews/Notice-of-Disagreement)
  

# Implementation Information
- [Status](#status)
- [Solution Narrative](#solution-narrative)
- [How to Access and Test](#how-to-access-and-test)
- [Error Handling](#error-handling)
- [Service Level Objective](#service-level-objective)
- [API Calls and Dependent Systems](#api-calls-and-dependent-systems)
- [Resources and Documentation](#resources-and-documentation)
- [Keywords](#Keywords)
- [Team](#team)
- [Screenshots](#screenshots)

---

# Executive Summary

## User Problem Statement
As a Veteran, I want to easily discover, apply for, track, and manage my disability compensation claims on va.gov so that I can have a personalized, guided experiences that provides me access to vital information about VA benefits and services I deserve.

## Solution Goals
Help users manage their entire Disability Compensation claims, reviews and appeals process seamlessly online.

### User Goals
- With resources better presented to the user, they should be able to find and apply for disability benefits with better efficacy.
- By digitizing forms and making them available to be completed online, users will significantly experience shorter turnaround time within every step of their claims process.

### Business Goals
Ensure that as many resources produced by the VA are being leveraged to as many Veterans possible.

## Assumptions
Prioritizations identified for Benefits and Memorials on va.gov align with other systems that are needed to integrate with va.gov. 

## Requirements and Constraints
Onboarding, access and domain knowledge has some upfront challenges.

## Discovery Takeaways
The key to implementing what has been learned is at least two-fold: stay organized and communicate as much as possible.  Notes are useless if they cannot be easily accessed and talking things through with your team allows for shared understanding, team cohesion and improved culture. 

## Solution Approach
Identify and prioritize roadmap.

## Value Propositions
Probably the largest is the placement of resources closer to the user and their anticiapted increased usage.

#### User Value
Having the same type of experience on a government website as they would on a private company website.

#### Business Value
Money spent on programs at the VA will be better utilized.

## [KPIs](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/blob/master/teams/vsa/teams/benefits-memorials/VA%20KPI%20Setting%20-%20VSA%20Benefits%20and%20Appeals.xlsx)


---

# Implementation Info

## Status
In progress

## Solution Narrative
- **September 2019**: Established roadmap prioritizations, began work on Higher Level Review and Origial Claims 
- **November 2019**: Finalizing "Higher Level Review" and "Original Claims"; started discovery of "Notice of Disagreement" and "BDD"
- **December 2019**: Identifying how to handle Legacy Issues in HLR; Blocked by MVI to complete environment testing due to server error issues. Began business and technical research on Benefits Delivery at Discharge, Claim Status API and Notice of Disagreement.

## How to Access and Test
- Link: [526 Staging Environment](https://staging.va.gov/disability/file-disability-claim-form-21-526ez/introduction): 
- Password protection info:
- User authentication info: 

## Error Handling
...

## Service Level Objective
...

## API Calls and Dependent Systems
...

## Resources and Documentation

- Discovery and Research
- Technical Documentation
- Product specs
- Design
- [Roadmap](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/blob/master/teams/vsa/teams/benefits-memorials/Benefits%20and%20Memorials%20Roadmap.png)
- ATO documentation

## Keywords
vsa-benefits, HLR, 526, vsa-decision-review, NOD, Supplemental Claim

## Team
|**Roles**              |**Assigned**                        |
|-----------------------|------------------------------------|
|DSVA Product Manager   |Andrea Schneider                    |
|Team Product Manager   |Yana Roy                            |
|Back End Engineer      |Silvio Luthi                        |
|Back End Engineer      |Cameron Testerman                   |
|Front End Engineer     |Nicholas Sprinkle                   |
|Front End Engineer     |Robin Garrison                      |
|Design Researcher      |Christian Valla                     |
|Design Researcher      |Kevin Stachura                      |

### Screenshots
#### Before
...
#### After
...

Commit message:

Minor updates after Luke joined.

teams/vsa/teams/benefits-memorials/bam-product-outline.md, after:

# Product Outline: Benefits and Memorials
- GitHub Label: vsa-benefits
- Slack channel: vsa-benefits-memorial, vsa-benefits-nod (dedicated channel for LightHouse and BAM for Notice of Disagreement discussions)
- VA.gov link: n/a
- Demo video link: n/a
- Product POCs: Andrea Schneider (andrea.schneider@va.gov) and Luke Majewski (lmajewski@governmentcio.com)
- [Product Folder](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/tree/master/teams/vsa/teams/benefits-memorials)
- [Team Charter and Roadmap](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/blob/master/teams/vsa/teams/benefits-memorials/charter.md)
---

### Table of Contents

# Executive Summary 
- [User Problem Statement](#user-problem-statement)
- [Solution Goals](#solution-goals)
- [Assumptions](#assumptions)
- [Requirements and Constraints](#requirements-and-constraints)
- [Discovery Takeaways](#discovery-takeaways)
- [Solution Approach](#solution-approach)
- [Value Propositions](#value-propositions)
- [KPIs](#kpis)
- [Features](#features)
  - [Decision Review: Higher Level Review and Notice of Disagreement](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/tree/master/products/decision-reviews)
  - [Original Claims](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/tree/master/products/original-claims)
  - [Benefits Delivery at Discharge](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/tree/master/products/disability/disability-compensation-claim/bdd)
  - [Claim Status API](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/tree/master/products/claim-appeal-status/claim-status-api)
  - [Notice of Disagreement](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/tree/master/products/decision-reviews/Notice-of-Disagreement)
  

# Implementation Information
- [Status](#status)
- [Solution Narrative](#solution-narrative)
- [How to Access and Test](#how-to-access-and-test)
- [Error Handling](#error-handling)
- [Service Level Objective](#service-level-objective)
- [API Calls and Dependent Systems](#api-calls-and-dependent-systems)
- [Resources and Documentation](#resources-and-documentation)
- [Keywords](#Keywords)
- [Team](#team)
- [Screenshots](#screenshots)

---

# Executive Summary

## User Problem Statement
As a Veteran, I want to easily discover, apply for, track, and manage my disability compensation claims on va.gov so that I can have a personalized, guided experiences that provides me access to vital information about VA benefits and services I deserve.

## Solution Goals
Help users manage their entire Disability Compensation claims, reviews and appeals process seamlessly online.

### User Goals
- With resources better presented to the user, they should be able to find and apply for disability benefits with better efficacy.
- By digitizing forms and making them available to be completed online, users will significantly experience shorter turnaround time within every step of their claims process.

### Business Goals
Ensure that as many resources produced by the VA are being leveraged to as many Veterans possible.

## Assumptions
Prioritizations identified for Benefits and Memorials on va.gov align with other systems that are needed to integrate with va.gov. 

## Requirements and Constraints
Onboarding, access and domain knowledge has some upfront challenges.

## Discovery Takeaways
The key to implementing what has been learned is at least two-fold: stay organized and communicate as much as possible.  Notes are useless if they cannot be easily accessed and talking things through with your team allows for shared understanding, team cohesion and improved culture. 

## Solution Approach
Identify and prioritize roadmap.

## Value Propositions
Probably the largest is the placement of resources closer to the user and their anticiapted increased usage.

#### User Value
Having the same type of experience on a government website as they would on a private company website.

#### Business Value
Money spent on programs at the VA will be better utilized.

## [KPIs](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/blob/master/teams/vsa/teams/benefits-memorials/VA%20KPI%20Setting%20-%20VSA%20Benefits%20and%20Appeals.xlsx)


---

# Implementation Info

## Status
In progress

## Solution Narrative
- **September 2019**: Established roadmap prioritizations, began work on Higher Level Review and Origial Claims 
- **November 2019**: Finalizing "Higher Level Review" and "Original Claims"; started discovery of "Notice of Disagreement" and "BDD"
- **December 2019**: Identifying how to handle Legacy Issues in HLR; Blocked by MVI to complete environment testing due to server error issues. Began business and technical research on Benefits Delivery at Discharge, Claim Status API and Notice of Disagreement.

## How to Access and Test
- Link: [526 Staging Environment](https://staging.va.gov/disability/file-disability-claim-form-21-526ez/introduction): 
- Password protection info:
- User authentication info: 

## Error Handling
...

## Service Level Objective
...

## API Calls and Dependent Systems
...

## Resources and Documentation

- Discovery and Research
- Technical Documentation
- Product specs
- Design
- [Roadmap](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/blob/master/teams/vsa/teams/benefits-memorials/Benefits%20and%20Memorials%20Roadmap.png)
- ATO documentation

## Keywords
vsa-benefits, HLR, 526, vsa-decision-review, NOD, Supplemental Claim

## Team
|**Roles**              |**Assigned**                        |
|-----------------------|------------------------------------|
|DSVA Product Manager   |Andrea Schneider                    |
|Team Product Manager   |Yana Roy                            |
|Back End Engineer      |Silvio Luthi                        |
|Back End Engineer      |Cameron Testerman                   |
|Front End Engineer     |Nicholas Sprinkle                   |
|Front End Engineer     |Robin Garrison                      |
|Design Researcher      |Christian Valla                     |
|Design Researcher      |Kevin Stachura                      |

### Screenshots
#### Before
...
#### After
...
