## Week of 3/6/17

Our goal for this research was to test the new additions that were placed on the facility locator including new design of SHEP data, and new data around wait times and appointments and to test the new content and design changes that happend since the last round of testing on 2/13/17.

We spoke to 5 different Veterans to test if the new information is clear, helpful and easy to understand for Veterans. We also wanted to know if their understanding of the data matches our intent.

The conversation guide can be found here: https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/vets.gov-research/blob/master/Projects/Facility%20Locator/FacilityLocatorAdditions.md
Research Brief- https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/vets.gov-research/issues/94

## What worked
+ Veterans said they would use distance/location and wait times to make decisions.
+ Veterans could explain the people icons information to a friend.
+ Veterans are constrained by their own schedule (e.g., can only have appointments on Fridays) and assumed the wait times were from when they were calling to make appointments. The Baltimore days seemed unbelivable and not real. Using the create date as the measure for wait times will likely provide more realistic wait times based on veterans' mental models.

## What didn't work
+ Veterans did not know that the data for satisfaction score was Veteran reported but mentioned that they talk to other Veterans in person and on social media to make decision on facilites.
+ For satisfaction data, is was unclear if quality of care or quality of getting an appointment.
+ When we use the word urgent it was not clear if what the difference between urgent vs emergency care is.
