Urgent Care Mashup Study - Notes
=================================================

##### July 2020 Discovery

##### Date: July 13, 2020

##### Time: 7:00am

##### Participant: 01

## Intro 

Thanks for joining us today! My name is Leyda and I also have some colleagues on the 

line observing and taking notes. Today we're going to talk about finding

 healthcare on 

the VA.gov website.

Before we start, a few things I want to mention:

This entire session should take about 45 minutes.

First, I'll ask you a few warm up questions to get us started.

Then, I'll be sharing a link to a prototype and ask you to share your screen. We'll 

look at a prototype together and I will ask you questions about it.

In this session, we want to hear your honest opinions. We are not testing you, 

instead we are testing the website to better meet Veteran's needs. I will not be 

offended by any opinions you express, and I welcome your feedback.

Are you comfortable if I record my screen and audio as we talk today? We use 

the recordings to confirm that we have captured your opinions accurately. The 

recordings are destroyed after we complete analysis, and none of your 

comments will be attributed to you directly.

If yes: Once I start recording, I am going to confirm that you are ok with 

me recording this session once more.

Start recording to the Cloud

I have started recording. I'd like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record my 

screen the audio as we talk today?"

Warm-up Question

Moderator: Can you tell me a little about your service history?

Participant: I joined the National Guard in 1997 and became active Guard in 2003. I started in Blackstone, VA. *moved to a few different locations and bases before medically retiring 

Moderator: Have you visited the VA for healthcare in the past year?

Participant: I started visiting the VA within a year of when I had medically retired and I continue to go there now. 

Moderator: - If yes, can you tell me about that?

Participant: I go for my back -- I have a herniated disk. I also go for my knee, shoulder, and neck.

Usability Test

Moderator shares link to a prototype and asks to share their screen.

PROTOTYPE: User clicks on 'Find a VA Location'

Moderator: Have you ever used this page?

Participant: Not for finding a VA location.

Moderator: If no, how do you go about finding information about VA locations?

Participant: I either go to the VA site, or I just Google it.

Scenario

Moderator gives sprained ankle scenario

Task 1

Moderator has user performs search

Moderator: Talk me through how you would go about finding care on this page.

Participant: First, I would have to find the facility in Denver, CO. I would go to the "find VA location" and add the city and state to find the closest location.

Moderator: Go ahead and try to do that now.

Participant: *Navigated to Find VA Locations, added Denver as a location, chose VA health, and picked urgent care for service type

I see you've selected [...] Can talk me through why you chose those 

particular options?

Participant: I chose the ones that seemed to be the best fit. Really, none of them are an exact match but this is the closest to what I would want.

What would be your next step? [click 'search button']

Participant: I see the Rocky Mtn Regional VA, so I'd call to make sure they're open and staffed to help me.

PROTOTYPE: Search results

Moderator: Talk me through what you see on this page?

Participant: *Rocky Mtn Medical Center

Task 2

Moderator has user 

choose 'Urgent care" from menu

What does 'VA urgent care' mean to you?

Participant: The distinction between VA urgent care and Community urgent care providers are important to distinguish. If there are Community care locations that are closer to me, then they'd be good options. Sometimes it takes longer to schedule an appointment with the VA.

Does this distinction matter to you?

Participant: Yes

If you chose A, how would you prepare to visit this location?

Participant: First, I would get the time and date that I need to be there. I'd go ahead and look at the directions to see which route I would want to take to get there.

What does "[Urgent care benefit information]" mean to you?

Participant: That's something I would click on before even going there to see if it's something I qualify for.

Just briefly, what do you think this page is trying to communicate?

Participant: It is giving information about what you'd be eligible for and the treatment they can give. It will let you know if the facility can take care of what you need. 

Moderator has user go back to search results

If you chose B, how would you prepare to visit this location?

Participant: If the time and hours are convenient for me, then I would go ahead and go to them.

Post-Task Interview - 5 minutes

Moderator: Have you ever visited an urgent care clinic in the past (VA or non-VA)?

Participant: Yes, but it's been years ago.

Moderator: If yes, can you tell me about that?

Participant: If I had to go today, I would call them and ask if they are able to see me and what I would need to do to visit.

Moderator: Can you think of anything that would make this website easier for you to use

next time?

Participant: It pretty much spells out what you need.

Moderator: Is there anything that I haven't asked you that you think that I should know?

Participant: Not that I can think of right now.

Moderator: Any questions for me?

Participant: No
