
Urgent Care Mashup Study - Notes
=================================================

##### July 2020 Discovery

##### Date: July 13, 2020

##### Time: 8:00am

##### Participant: 02

## Intro 

Intro

Thanks for joining us today! My name is Leyda and I also have some colleagues on the 

line observing and taking notes. Today we're going to talk about finding

 healthcare on 

the VA.gov website.

Before we start, a few things I want to mention:

This entire session should take about 45 minutes.

First, I'll ask you a few warm up questions to get us started.

Then, I'll be sharing a link to a prototype and ask you to share your screen. We'll 

look at a prototype together and I will ask you questions about it.

In this session, we want to hear your honest opinions. We are not testing you, 

instead we are testing the website to better meet Veteran's needs. I will not be 

offended by any opinions you express, and I welcome your feedback.

Are you comfortable if I record my screen and audio as we talk today? We use 

the recordings to confirm that we have captured your opinions accurately. The 

recordings are destroyed after we complete analysis, and none of your 

comments will be attributed to you directly.

If yes: Once I start recording, I am going to confirm that you are ok with 

me recording this session once more.

Start recording to the Cloud

I have started recording. I'd like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record my 

screen the audio as we talk today?"

Warm-up Question

Moderator: Can you tell me a little about your service history?

Participant: I was in the Army for 12 years. I went to Korea and also did 15 months in Kuwait and Iraq.

Moderator: Have you visited the VA for healthcare in the past year?

Participant: Yes, around 2009.

Moderator: - If yes, can you tell me about that?

Participant: At first it was horrible. Back in 2006 there were hours of wait and the care was not tailored for females.

Usability Test

Moderator shares link to a prototype and asks to share their screen.

PROTOTYPE: VA.gov main

**Moderator:**Are you familiar with VA.gov's location finder?

Participant: I go on this website just about every day.

PROTOTYPE: User clicks on 'Find a VA Location'

Moderator: Have you ever used this page?

Participant: Yes.

Moderator: If yes, how long ago, what were you doing? What was that experience like?

Participant: It's been about 6 months. The last time I used it was when I had to find a VA out in Pittsburg. It was easy to find and just used my GPS to get me there.

Scenario

Moderator gives sprained ankle scenario

Task 1

Moderator has user performs search

Moderator: Talk me through how you would go about finding care on this page.

Participant: I would search by city, and enter Denver, CO. Then I would select Urgent Care and All Urgent Care.

I see you've selected [...] Can talk me through why you chose those 

particular options?

Participant: I read the section above the boxes and saw that Urgent care would give you options for VA and community care. So I chose that for Facility type.

PROTOTYPE: Search results

Moderator: Talk me through what you see on this page?

Participant: *listed through the 5 results

What would be your thought process for making a choice from this list?

Participant: I would start with the VA and then work out from there. I try to go to the VA for most of my care so that I have a set few doctors that I work with and so that all of my files are in one spot where all of my doctors can access them.

Moderator: What is important to you when choosing from this list?

Participant: The most important thing to me are just seeing the places that are open, their hours, and how far away they are from me.

Task 2

Moderator has user 

choose 'Urgent care" from menu.

Moderator: 

Under the 'Choose a service type' menu, talk me through what the different 

options mean to you.

Participant: VA urgent care is care at an actual VA hospital. The community care would be a zip clinic or what I call civilian care, but it's still done through the VA for billing.

Moderator has user click search button and compare top two locations

Moderator: 

Talk me through what would be important to you in comparing these two 

options. 

Option A is civilian care, but the other would be VA care.

Moderator: 

If you chose A, how would you prepare to visit this location?

Participant: I would look at the hours and location to figure out when I could go and I would use the "urgent care benefit information" link to get some more information.

Just briefly, what do you think this page is trying to communicate?

Participant: It gives you the information you'd need to know before going to the clinic. 

Moderator has user go back to search results

If you chose B, how would you prepare to visit this location?

Participant: I would go the VA medical center website by clicking on the name to get some more information.

It would be great if they had current wait times listed on the website like they do for some ERs. If there are two that are close by and one has an hour wait and the other has a 15 minute wait, then I'm going to the one with the 15 minute wait.

What would be your next step?

Participant: I'd call each of them to see which services are available right now (considering the pandemic) and when they would be able to see me.

Post-Task Interview - 5 minutes

Moderator: Have you ever visited an urgent care clinic in the past (VA or non-VA)?

Participant: Yes, a lot. VA and urgent care.

Moderator: If yes, can you tell me about that?

Participant: It's been a while since I went to a regular urgent care. It was first come first serve, not based on illness or injury. Last May was my last visit and it took 45 minutes to get registered, 20 minutes to get in the room, another 1 hour for a nurse, and other 20 for the doctor...it ended up being 3 hours for bruised elbow. 

Next time I would base it on the wait time. I would probably go to the community care for non-serious visits because it tends to be faster.

Moderator: Can you think of anything that would make this website easier for you to use

next time?

Participant: It's pretty easy for me now because I am pretty much familiar with the pages already.

Moderator: Is there anything that I haven't asked you that you think that I should know?

Participant: I don't think so.

Moderator: Any questions for me?

Participant: No
