
Urgent Care Mashup Study - Notes
=================================================

##### July 2020 Discovery

##### Date: July 13, 2020

##### Time: 10:00am

##### Participant: 03

## Intro 

Intro

Thanks for joining us today! My name is Leyda and I also have some colleagues on the 

line observing and taking notes. Today we're going to talk about finding

 healthcare on 

the VA.gov website.

Before we start, a few things I want to mention:

This entire session should take about 45 minutes.

First, I'll ask you a few warm up questions to get us started.

Then, I'll be sharing a link to a prototype and ask you to share your screen. We'll 

look at a prototype together and I will ask you questions about it.

In this session, we want to hear your honest opinions. We are not testing you, 

instead we are testing the website to better meet Veteran's needs. I will not be 

offended by any opinions you express, and I welcome your feedback.

Are you comfortable if I record my screen and audio as we talk today? We use 

the recordings to confirm that we have captured your opinions accurately. The 

recordings are destroyed after we complete analysis, and none of your 

comments will be attributed to you directly.

If yes: Once I start recording, I am going to confirm that you are ok with 

me recording this session once more.

Start recording to the Cloud

I have started recording. I'd like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record my 

screen the audio as we talk today?"

Warm-up Question

Moderator: Can you tell me a little about your service history?

Participant: I am a caregiver. My dad is the veteran. My mother is also a veteran.

Moderator: Have you visited the VA for healthcare in the past year?

Participant: 95% of my dad's care is at VHA. I'm the decision maker for him.

Usability Test

Moderator shares link to a prototype and asks to share their screen.

PROTOTYPE: VA.gov main

**Moderator:**Are you familiar with VA.gov's location finder?

Participant: Absolutely.

PROTOTYPE: User clicks on 'Find a VA Location'

Moderator: Have you ever used this page?

Participant: Yes. You put in your zip code and it finds the closest VA for you.

Moderator: If yes, how long ago, what were you doing? What was that experience like?

Participant: I used it when I wanted to find directions to the VA. It is easy and worked well.

Scenario

Moderator gives sprained ankle scenario

Task 1

Moderator has user performs search

Moderator: Talk me through how you would go about finding care on this page.

Participant: I would enter Denver, CO and click search. We usually go to VAMC for everything and they help us. I would select "Community Care" for the "VA facility type" and then I'd use "all care" for "service type."

I see you've selected [...] Can talk me through why you chose those 

particular options?

Participant: Community care would be the 3rd party of contractors, but the VA care is just VA services. I'd want to look through both, but would prefer the VA.

PROTOTYPE: Search results

Moderator: Talk me through what you see on this page?

Participant: I see the Rocky Mtn VA center so I would go there because they already have all of my medical records.

Moderator: 

What would be your thought process for making a choice from this list?

Participant: I would want to go where my records are already listed and where they can be added without doubling the work through a 3rd party. If I were choosing by location, then I would go to "A" because it is closer.

Moderator: What is important to you when choosing from this list?

Participant: Having my records and the ability to add new records in important to me.

Task 2

Moderator has user 

choose 'Urgent care" from menu

.

If you chose A, how would you prepare to visit this location?

Participant: I would pull-up MyHealthyVet on my tablet and bring that with me for them to look at my records, medical lists, and past visits. It would make it easier for them because they will be able to see all of my information and update anything on the spot.

Moderator: 

What does "[Urgent care benefit information]" mean to you?

Participant: It is the information about benefits and what I'll need in order to go there.

If you chose B, how would you prepare to visit this location?

Participant: I would do the same thing for B as I would for A.

What does the [Limited services and hours] mean to you?

Participant: I would have to call to see if they are open and providing service (considering COVID). It seems like their hours would not be as convenient as A.

Moderator: 

What would be your next step?

Participant: I'd look up reviews and what type of physicians are available. I'd like to look up and see the doctors and how long they've been practicing.

Post-Task Interview - 5 minutes

Moderator: Have you ever visited an urgent care clinic in the past (VA or non-VA)?

Participant: Yes, all VA - for my dad.

Moderator: Can you think of anything that would make this website easier for you to use

next time? 

Participant: I think everything is there. It might be helpful to know how much the co-payment would be...and a comparison between clinics. I'd also like the know the fee schedule. It might be good to have a link that'll take you to disabilities, or it can be done through MyHealthyVet. 

I would also like to know if the doctors are military cultured. I would tend to choose the facility that is. I'd really hope that the military culture can be incorporated into the commercial/3rd party/contractor providers.

Moderator: Any questions for me?

Participant: No
