Urgent Care Mashup Study - Notes
=================================================

##### July 2020 Discovery

##### Date: July 13, 2020

##### Time: 12:00pm

##### Participant: 04

## Intro 

Intro
Thanks for joining us today! My name is Leyda and I also have some colleagues on the 
line observing and taking notes. Today we're going to talk about finding
 healthcare on 
the VA.gov website.
Before we start, a few things I want to mention:

This entire session should take about 45 minutes.

First, I'll ask you a few warm up questions to get us started.

Then, I'll be sharing a link to a prototype and ask you to share your screen. We'll 
look at a prototype together and I will ask you questions about it.

In this session, we want to hear your honest opinions. We are not testing you, 
instead we are testing the website to better meet Veteran's needs. I will not be 
offended by any opinions you express, and I welcome your feedback.

Are you comfortable if I record my screen and audio as we talk today? We use 
the recordings to confirm that we have captured your opinions accurately. The 
recordings are destroyed after we complete analysis, and none of your 
comments will be attributed to you directly.

If yes: Once I start recording, I am going to confirm that you are ok with 
me recording this session once more.
Start recording to the Cloud

I have started recording. I'd like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record my 
screen the audio as we talk today?"

Warm-up Question
Moderator: Can you tell me a little about your service history?
Participant: I spent 14 months on active duty and was honorably discharged. 

Moderator: Have you visited the VA for healthcare in the past year?
Participant: Yes, I use the VA for all of my healthcare. I have no problems with it so far.

Usability Test
Moderator shares link to a prototype and asks to share their screen.
PROTOTYPE: VA.gov main
**Moderator:**Are you familiar with VA.gov's location finder?
Participant: I’m familiar with MyHealthyVet. This page looks a little like that, but not quite. 
PROTOTYPE: User clicks on 'Find a VA Location'
Moderator: Have you ever used this page?
Participant: No, I don’t think I’ve used this one.

Moderator: If no, how do you go about finding information about VA locations?
Participant: *web searches / calling

Scenario
Moderator gives sprained ankle scenario
Task 1
Moderator has user performs search
Moderator: Talk me through how you would go about finding care on this page.
Participant: I would use my zip code to find something close to me. Under “Service Type” I would select “Urgent Care.” 

PROTOTYPE: Search results
Moderator: Talk me through what you see on this page?
Participant: I see Rocky Mtn VA Center. I’d probably want to call the tele-health line to get an idea of what I should do or where I should go. I might also call the number for the VA center to get an idea of if I should go in or not.

Moderator: 
What would be your thought process for making a choice from this list?
Participant: I’m seeing the two places that I could go. I wouldn’t be sure if the Zip Clinic is able to see me with it being covered, so I’d probably call the Rocky Mtn VA center first. 

Task 2
Moderator has user 
choose 'Urgent care” from menu
.
Moderator: 
Under the 'Choose a service type' menu, talk me through what the different 
options mean to you.
Participant: The community urgent care would be something I’d be informed to go to. I’d call the VA and ask if they can see me and then if they aren’t able to and want to send me to the community provider then I’d go there. 

Does this distinction matter to you?
Participant: Having them distinguished isn’t very helpful because my first choice would be to go the VA first for care. It’s my understanding that I’d need approval before going to an outside provider, but I’d want the VA to send me somewhere instead of me choosing somewhere to go.

Moderator: 
If you chose A, how would you prepare to visit this location?
Participant: I’d call them first to get some more information, but then I would just use the address on the page to go there. 

Moderator: 
Just briefly, what do you think this page is trying to communicate? "[Urgent care benefit information]"
Participant: It tells me where and if I can get care. It tells me the info I need for the clinic. 

Moderator has user go back to search results
Moderator:  
If you chose B, how would you prepare to visit this location?
Participant: I’d do the same as A. I’d call first to see if it is something worth going to them for and to figure out if it’s covered. If they weren’t able to get me an appointment then they’d refer me somewhere else. 

Moderator: 
What does the [Limited services and hours] mean to you?
Participant: It means they’re not operating on full or regular business hours. I’d have to call to figure out when I could go. 

Post-Task Interview - 5 minutes
Moderator: Have you ever visited an urgent care clinic in the past (VA or non-VA)?
Participant: Yes, for a toothache that turned out to be a sinus infection

Moderator: Can you think of anything that would make this website easier for you to use
next time? 
Participant: No, this looks pretty straightforward, just like a regular VA website. 

Moderator: Is there anything that I haven't asked you that you think that I should know?
Participant: I can’t think of anything. 

Moderator: Any questions for me?
Participant: No


