
Urgent Care Mashup Study - Notes
=================================================

##### July 2020 Discovery

##### Date: July 14, 2020

##### Time: 12:00pm

##### Participant: 07

## Intro 

Intro

Thanks for joining us today! My name is Leyda and I also have some colleagues on the 

line observing and taking notes. Today we're going to talk about finding

 healthcare on 

the VA.gov website.

Before we start, a few things I want to mention:

This entire session should take about 45 minutes.

First, I'll ask you a few warm up questions to get us started.

Then, I'll be sharing a link to a prototype and ask you to share your screen. We'll 

look at a prototype together and I will ask you questions about it.

In this session, we want to hear your honest opinions. We are not testing you, 

instead we are testing the website to better meet Veteran's needs. I will not be 

offended by any opinions you express, and I welcome your feedback.

Are you comfortable if I record my screen and audio as we talk today? We use 

the recordings to confirm that we have captured your opinions accurately. The 

recordings are destroyed after we complete analysis, and none of your 

comments will be attributed to you directly.

If yes: Once I start recording, I am going to confirm that you are ok with 

me recording this session once more.

Start recording to the Cloud

I have started recording. I'd like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record my 

screen the audio as we talk today?"

Warm-up Question

Moderator: Can you tell me a little about your service history?

Participant: I join in December of 1976 and stayed in for 3 years, active duty. Then I was discharged into the reserves where I stayed for a year and a half. Then I went back to active duty for a year and a half.

Moderator: Have you visited the VA for healthcare in the past year?

Participant: Yes, I have visited the VA many times for my service-related disabilities. I just recently had shoulder surgery last July, and I also had surgery while on active duty.

Usability Test

Moderator shares link to a prototype and asks to share their screen.

PROTOTYPE: VA.gov main

**Moderator:**Are you familiar with VA.gov's location finder?

Participant: No

PROTOTYPE: User clicks on 'Find a VA Location'

Moderator: Have you ever used this page?

Participant: No

Moderator: If yes, how long ago, what were you doing? What was that experience like?

Participant:

Moderator: If no, how do you go about finding information about VA locations?

Participant: I use Google on my phone to find the locations and to get directions.

Scenario

Moderator gives sprained ankle scenario

Task 1

Moderator has user performs search

Moderator: Talk me through how you would go about finding care on this page.

Participant: First, I will need to read the page. I see the box for city, state, or postal code. I would need to enter the location, but I'm not sure if it would give me directions through the city. For the "VA facility type" I would select Urgent Care. Under "Service Type" I would select VA Urgent Care.

I used to di this with my phone. Though, I could pull up the same site on my phone that is on my laptop. It doesn't make a difference which machine I use, as long as it can get me to the site. But, with my phone I could use the voice control and also have it give me directions right from there. I use the Google voice activation and search feature on my phone. I would say "hey Google" and "take me to the nearest VA facility." It would pull it up with a map and directions, then I could have it call the VA center to get in contact.

Moderator: Go ahead and try to do that now.

Participant: The map is pretty decent.

Moderator: 

I see you've selected [...] Can talk me through why you chose those 

particular options?

Participant: I selected the options that matched your scenario. If I'm in Denver and a medical emergency comes up, I'd pull up this website and it would show me where I need to go.

I chose Urgent Care for the VA Facility Type because it was an emergency situation.

PROTOTYPE: Search results

Moderator: Talk me through what you see on this page?

Participant: It has Rocky Mtn VA Center with the address, phone number, and its location on the map.

Moderator: What is important to you when choosing from this list?

Participant: Location

Task 2

Moderator has user 

choose 'Urgent care" from menu

.

Moderator: 

Under the 'Choose a service type' menu, talk me through what the different 

options mean to you.

Moderator: 

What does 'Community urgent care providers (in VA's network)' mean to 

you?

Participant: Community Urgent Care Providers (in VA's network) would mean the urgent care units that accept alternative kinds of insurance. So those are the places that I could go to if the VA was not available. I'd assume that the community care would then send the bill to the VA center.

Moderator: 

What does 'VA urgent care' mean to you?

Participant: The VA Urgent Care is no different than a VA hospital, but as an emergency room.

Moderator: 

Does this distinction matter to you?

Participant: I don't see why it matters, because if you're in an emergency situation then what difference would it make? You just need to get care. If it's an emergency and I need help right away, then I'll pick the first thing that's closest.

If it isn't an emergency, then I'd probably do even more research beyond the location to go to the best option.

Moderator has user click search button and compare top two locations

Moderator: 

Talk me through what would be important to you in comparing these two 

options.

Participant: Now it's showing another facility. A closer facility. "A" has some extra information and is slightly closer. It gives enough information for me to decide to pick the first option, especially because the second one says, "limited service and hours." I don't want to go to a place where they may not take me in or just leave me waiting. Zip Clinic seems to have more availability -- I can also call and ask when they operate, but the other doesn't say you can call the VA facility, it only says that it is limited.

Moderator: 

What does "[Urgent care benefit information]" mean to you?

Participant: The physician or medical assistants (personal) will be able to explain to me what goes on at the clinic and necessary information for emergency situations with the clinic for veterans. To get more information, I would call them. I assume they would have a website. I would Google the Zip Clinic to get more information. 

*did not know he could click the link to get the benefit info

Moderator: 

What do you think you will find when you click it? Go ahead and click that 

link for me.

Moderator: 

Just briefly, what do you think this page is trying to communicate?

Participant: This page is about the VA and their operations for veterans, as far as treatment.  This has information about treating injuries and illnesses through the VA. I think this is a perfect idea.

Now that I know more (*after visiting the benefit info page) I realize that I can go to a center other than the VA to get care. That would save the veteran and the VA money. It would prevent the VA from having to do extra work to cover bills from facilities that were not partnered with the VA.

Post-Task Interview - 5 minutes

Participant: This is all new to me so I can't think of anything to change. I'd need to do some research to find anything that can make it better.

How would you like to be notified of these types of services or webpages?

Participant: Email notifications would be good if you had a database of veterans / their contact info. Text message notifications would be good as well.
