
Urgent Care Mashup Study - Notes
=================================================

##### July 2020 Discovery

##### Date: July 15, 2020

##### Time: 7:00am

##### Participant: 08

## Intro 

Intro

Thanks for joining us today! My name is Leyda and I also have some colleagues on the 

line observing and taking notes. Today we're going to talk about finding

 healthcare on 

the VA.gov website.

Before we start, a few things I want to mention:

●

This entire session should take about 45 minutes.

●

First, I'll ask you a few warm up questions to get us started.

●

Then, I'll be sharing a link to a prototype and ask you to share your screen. We'll 

look at a prototype together and I will ask you questions about it.

●

In this session, we want to hear your honest opinions. We are not testing you, 

instead we are testing the website to better meet Veteran's needs. I will not be 

offended by any opinions you express, and I welcome your feedback.

●

Are you comfortable if I record my screen and audio as we talk today? We use 

the recordings to confirm that we have captured your opinions accurately. The 

recordings are destroyed after we complete analysis, and none of your 

comments will be attributed to you directly.

○

If yes: Once I start recording, I am going to confirm that you are ok with 

me recording this session once more.

Start recording to the Cloud

●

I have started recording. I'd like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record my 

screen the audio as we talk today?"

Warm-up Question

Moderator: Can you tell me a little about your service history?

Participant: I am a caretaker. I take care of my husband's needs for appointments, medications, etc...

Moderator: Have you visited the VA for healthcare in the past year?

Participant: Yes, with him.

Moderator: - If yes, can you tell me about that?

Participant: We've gone for his neurology and TBI. It was a good experience.

Usability Test

Moderator shares link to a prototype and asks to share their screen.

PROTOTYPE: VA.gov main

**Moderator:**Are you familiar with VA.gov's location finder?

Participant: No

PROTOTYPE: User clicks on 'Find a VA Location'

Moderator: Have you ever used this page?

Participant: No

Moderator: If yes, how long ago, what were you doing? What was that experience like?

Participant:

Moderator: If no, how do you go about finding information about VA locations?

Participant: I use a search engine, such as Google. We just moved from Las Vegas to Texas, so I've recently had to use a search engine to find VA locations.

Scenario

Moderator gives sprained ankle scenario

Task 1

Moderator has user performs search

Moderator: Talk me through how you would go about finding care on this page.

Participant: I would type the city that I am in, to the top box. I'd select urgent care for the service type box. I'd leave VA Health in the facility type box. I search with that to see if I can find a VA center location where I can get care.

Moderator: 

I see you've selected [...] Can talk me through why you chose those 

particular options?

Participant:

Moderator: 

What would be your next step? [click 'search button']

Participant:

PROTOTYPE: Search results

Moderator: Talk me through what you see on this page?

Participant: I just got the main VA center here. Rocky Mtn. VA Center. I would probably start by trying to find another urgent care center to go to first if I need to. This one has limited service/hours. I know I can go to other medical centers as long as I call the VA by the next day. Doing so will let me get the care I need, when I need it -- then I can follow-up and continue with the VA later.

Moderator: 

What would be your thought process for making a choice from this list?

Participant:

Moderator: What is important to you when choosing from this list?

Participant:

Task 2

Moderator has user 

choose 'Urgent care" from menu

.

Moderator: 

Under the 'Choose a service type' menu, talk me through what the different 

options mean to you.

Participant: All Urgent Care would include all urgent care centers regardless of if they are a VA hospital or clinic.,

Moderator: 

What does 'Community urgent care providers (in VA's network)' mean to 

you?

Participant: Community care providers would be non-VA centers that work with the VA for billing and service.

Moderator: 

What does 'VA urgent care' mean to you?

Participant: The VA urgent Care is all specific VA centers

Moderator: 

Does this distinction matter to you?

Participant: Not particularly. Once you know where you can go, it is not hard. Finding that out can be the hard part without this website.

Moderator: 

What matters about the distinction?

Participant:

Moderator has user click search button and compare top two locations

Moderator: 

Participant: For one of them, it looks like you have to call before you can go in to get the services and hours. For the other, it says that they have limited service and hours. In a stressful situation you probably don't want to have to call them to get the information.

Talk me through what would be important to you in comparing these two 

options.

Moderator:

If you chose A, how would you prepare to visit this location?

Participant: I would call them to make sure they're open and would then drive there in my care if I could.

Moderator: 

What does "[Urgent care benefit information]" mean to you?

Participant: It means that he (veteran who she is a caretaker for) has to have an emergency to go there.

Moderator: 

What do you think you will find when you click it? Go ahead and click that 

link for me.

Participant: I'm not sure.

Moderator: 

Just briefly, what do you think this page is trying to communicate?

Participant: It's what I figured, if you don't have an emergency then stay out. It's just like going to a regular doctor -- you have a co-pay and you'd have to use the pharmacy and stuff like that.

Moderator has user go back to search results

Moderator:  

If you chose B, how would you prepare to visit this location?

Participant: I would call and make sure they're open and that they have the services they needed before I got there.

Moderator: 

What does the [Limited services and hours] mean to you?

Participant:

Moderator: 

What would be your next step?

Participant: I would go to A or B, depending on the type of injury. If it is life threatening, then I would take him to the Rocky Mtn VA Center. If not, then I would go to the Zip Clinic. The VA is usually better at working with veterans and their specific needs.

Post-Task Interview - 5 minutes

Moderator: Have you ever visited an urgent care clinic in the past (VA or non-VA)?

Participant:

Moderator: If yes, can you tell me about that?

Participant: It was for headaches. The veteran would get headaches that would make it hard for him to function. I took him to the VA and they gave him some medicine that would help break apart the headaches for him.

Moderator: Can you think of anything that would make this website easier for you to use

next time?

Participant: No

Moderator: Is there anything that I haven't asked you that you think that I should know?

Participant: No

Moderator: Any questions for me?

Participant:

How would you like to learn about tools like this?

Participant: Maybe just send an email to the veterans, telling them that the website is there with the information they need.

Using this tool is more helpful than just Googling the info. It has actual VA information.

Thank-You and Closing

Well we really appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us today. Your 

feedback is so helpful to us as we continue to work on the site and make sure it really 

works for Veterans.

Thanks! Lastly, do you know any other Veterans, caregivers, or service members who 

might be willing to participate in a future user research session? If Yes: Thank you! I'll 

have our team send you an email with a little blurb that you can pass along.

Great, well thank you so much again, and enjoy the rest of your day!
