
Urgent Care Mashup Study - Notes
=================================================

##### July 2020 Discovery

##### Date: July 15, 2020

##### Time: 12:00pm

##### Participant: 11

## Intro 

Intro

Thanks for joining us today! My name is Leyda and I also have some colleagues on the 

line observing and taking notes. Today we're going to talk about finding

 healthcare on 

the VA.gov website.

Before we start, a few things I want to mention:

- This entire session should take about 45 minutes.

- First, I'll ask you a few warm up questions to get us started.

- Then, I'll be sharing a link to a prototype and ask you to share your screen. We'll look at a prototype together and I will ask you questions about it.

- In this session, we want to hear your honest opinions. We are not testing you, nstead we are testing the website to better meet Veteran's needs. I will not be 

offended by any opinions you express, and I welcome your feedback.

- Are you comfortable if I record my screen and audio as we talk today? We use  the recordings to confirm that we have captured your opinions accurately. The 

recordings are destroyed after we complete analysis, and none of your  comments will be attributed to you directly.

○ If yes: Once I start recording, I am going to confirm that you are ok with 

me recording this session once more.

Start recording to the Cloud

- I have started recording. I'd like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record my 

screen the audio as we talk today?"

Warm-up Question

Moderator: Can you tell me a little about your service history?

Participant: I am a caregiver for my husband. I a volunteer VA caregiver. He has a very severe case of sleep apnea and night terrors. He has issues with diabetes and also a spine injury. His mobility is very unpredictable. He was stop-loss and expended from his last tour in Iraq. He has been in the service for 24 years.

Moderator: Have you visited the VA for healthcare in the past year?

Participant:

Moderator: - If yes, can you tell me about that?

Participant:

Usability Test

Moderator shares link to a prototype and asks to share their screen.

PROTOTYPE: VA.gov main

**Moderator:**Are you familiar with VA.gov's location finder?

Participant: I've never used this. I already know where my VA is.

Moderator: If no, how do you go about finding information about VA locations?

Participant: I knew where the VA was from family use and gavn't needed to look up any information yet.

Scenario

Moderator gives sprained ankle scenario

Task 1

Moderator has user performs search

Moderator: Talk me through how you would go about finding care on this page.

Participant: I would go to the first box and type in Denver, CO. I'd assume the VA Facility Type and Service Type are already good to go, but there may be more options if we opened them up. *after looking through menus* I would pick VA Health and then I would leave the service type as All VA health services because I don't think a sprained ankle should warrant urgent care and the service types don't include anything specific to a sprained ankle. Urgent care to me would be situations that are medical emergencies that need immediate attention.

*Considered choosing Community Providers for VA facility type. Community providers are other hospitals around the area that are beyond the VA but will accept VA insurance.

Moderator: Go ahead and try to do that now.

Participant:

Moderator: 

I see you've selected [...] Can talk me through why you chose those 

particular options?

Participant:

Moderator: 

What would be your next step? [click 'search button']

Participant:

PROTOTYPE: Search results

Moderator: Talk me through what you see on this page?

Participant:

Moderator: 

What would be your thought process for making a choice from this list?

Participant: I would consider the immediacy of the care needed. I would choose the closer location and would also be steered more towards the VA itself. The VA tends to be larger and more reliable, so I know I can trust them. Although, this VA says that it has limited services and hours -- which makes me think 8am-5pm.The ZipClinic sounds like it's a bit smaller, but it may also get him in and out more quickly.

Moderator: What is important to you when choosing from this list?

Participant:

Task 2

Moderator has user 

choose 'Urgent care" from menu

.

Moderator: 

Under the 'Choose a service type' menu, talk me through what the different 

options mean to you.

Participant: The VA urgent care would be specifically VA hospital care, but the Community Care would be for care that is outside of the VA, but will bill through the VA.

Moderator: 

What does 'Community urgent care providers (in VA's network)' mean to 

you?

Participant:

Moderator: 

What does 'VA urgent care' mean to you?

Participant:

Moderator: 

Does this distinction matter to you?

Participant:

Moderator: 

What matters about the distinction?

Participant:

Moderator has user click search button and compare top two locations

Moderator: 

Talk me through what would be important to you in comparing these two 

options.

Moderator: 

If you chose A, how would you prepare to visit this location?

Participant: I would call ahead to make sure they're open and explain what I need in order to make sure they are able to handle our needs.

Moderator: 

What does "[Urgent care benefit information]" mean to you?

Participant: I'm not sure. I wouldn't click on it to read it. I would just ask about it on a phone call to avoid having to read over the page.

Moderator: 

What do you think you will find when you click it? Go ahead and click that 

link for me.

Participant:

Moderator: 

Just briefly, what do you think this page is trying to communicate?

Participant: My first impression is that this is just another VA blah blah blah page. All text and no clear answer which will just lead me right back to the main page that I was just on. It seems like it'll tell us whether our care will be covered or not.

Moderator has user go back to search results

Moderator:  

If you chose B, how would you prepare to visit this location?

Participant: I can already tell that they won't let me in. He will get into the center and it will end up being more difficult than necessary.

Moderator: 

What does the [Limited services and hours] mean to you?

Participant:

Moderator: 

What would be your next step?

Participant:

Post-Task Interview - 5 minutes

Moderator: Have you ever visited an urgent care clinic in the past (VA or non-VA)?

Participant:

Moderator: If yes, can you tell me about that?

Participant:

Moderator: Can you think of anything that would make this website easier for you to use

next time?

Participant: It would be nice if the hours of operation could be included. I'd like to be able to see reviews and whether people have had positive experiences there or not.

Moderator: Is there anything that I haven't asked you that you think that I should know?

Participant:

Moderator: Any questions for me?

Participant:

Thank-You and Closing

Well we really appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us today. Your 

feedback is so helpful to us as we continue to work on the site and make sure it really 

works for Veterans.

Thanks! Lastly, do you know any other Veterans, caregivers, or service members who 

might be willing to participate in a future user research session? If Yes: Thank you! I'll 

have our team send you an email with a little blurb that you can pass along.

Great, well thank you so much again, and enjoy the rest of your day!
