Urgent Care Mashup Study - Notes
=================================================

##### July 2020 Discovery

##### Date: July 16, 2020

##### Time: 7:00am

##### Participant: 12

## Intro 

Thanks for joining us today! My name is Leyda and I also have some colleagues on the line observing and taking notes. Today we're going to talk about finding
 healthcare on the VA.gov website.
 
Before we start, a few things I want to mention:
-This entire session should take about 45 minutes.
- First, I'll ask you a few warm up questions to get us started.
- Then, I'll be sharing a link to a prototype and ask you to share your screen. We'll look at a prototype together and I will ask you questions about it.
- In this session, we want to hear your honest opinions. We are not testing you, instead we are testing the website to better meet Veteran's needs. I will not be 
offended by any opinions you express, and I welcome your feedback.
- Are you comfortable if I record my screen and audio as we talk today? We use the recordings to confirm that we have captured your opinions accurately. The 
recordings are destroyed after we complete analysis, and none of your comments will be attributed to you directly.
  - If yes: Once I start recording, I am going to confirm that you are ok with me recording this session once more.
Start recording to the Cloud
- I have started recording. I'd like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record my 
screen the audio as we talk today?"

Warm-up Question
Moderator: Can you tell me a little about your service history?
Participant: I am a veteran. I haven’t been active for years. 

Moderator: Have you visited the VA for healthcare in the past year?
Participant: Yes, about 6 months ago.

Usability Test
Moderator shares link to a prototype and asks to share their screen.
PROTOTYPE: VA.gov main
**Moderator:**Are you familiar with VA.gov's location finder?
Participant:
PROTOTYPE: User clicks on 'Find a VA Location'
Moderator: Have you ever used this page?
Participant: No, I’m more familiar with MyHealthyVet. 

Moderator: If yes, how long ago, what were you doing? What was that experience like?
Participant:

Moderator: If no, how do you go about finding information about VA locations?
Participant: I’ve searched for VA locations through a search enginge and was taken to a locator that I used (*could have been something similar to this locator).

Scenario
Moderator gives sprained ankle scenario
Task 1
Moderator has user performs search
Moderator: Talk me through how you would go about finding care on this page.
Participant: I’d start by typing in Denver Colorado for my location. I would select Urgent Care for VA facility type and would use All urgent care for service type.

Moderator: 
I see you've selected [...] Can talk me through why you chose those 
particular options?
Participant: It gives me a choice between a ZipClinic and the VA hospital in Aurora. I would probably go to the VA hospital between these two.

Moderator: 
What would be your next step? [click 'search button']
Participant:
PROTOTYPE: Search results
Moderator: Talk me through what you see on this page?
Participant:
Moderator: 
What would be your thought process for making a choice from this list?
Participant: Well I’d avoid the ZipClinic because sometimes clinics do not always have a full range of care. I also see that it says I’ll need to call to get an idea of what they do and when they’re open.

Moderator: What is important to you when choosing from this list?
Participant:

Task 2
Moderator has user 
choose 'Urgent care” from menu
.
Moderator: 
Under the 'Choose a service type' menu, talk me through what the different 
options mean to you.
Participant: I gives 3 options. VA urgent care and also Community Care, or both.

Moderator: 
What does 'Community urgent care providers (in VA's network)' mean to 
you?
Participant: These are providers that are not exactly part of the VA system, but will accept VA insurance or send the billing where it should go.

Moderator: 
What does 'VA urgent care' mean to you?
Participant: That would be the VA hospital system. 

Moderator: 
Does this distinction matter to you?
Participant:
Moderator: 
What matters about the distinction?
Participant:
Moderator has user click search button and compare top two locations
Moderator: 
Talk me through what would be important to you in comparing these two 
options.
Moderator: 
If you chose A, how would you prepare to visit this location?
Participant: I would definitely call first to ask if they’re open and possibly explain my situation. 

Moderator: 
What does "[Urgent care benefit information]" mean to you?
Participant: I’m not to sure, maybe it’s about what you’ll need before visiting. 

Moderator: 
What do you think you will find when you click it? Go ahead and click that 
link for me.
Just briefly, what do you think this page is trying to communicate?
Participant: It explains what to expect and what it may be like to go their.

Moderator has user go back to search results
Moderator:  
If you chose B, how would you prepare to visit this location?
Participant: I would call B too because it says they have limited service and hours.

Moderator: 
What does the [Limited services and hours] mean to you?
Participant: It means they are not open everyday, or at least not open for a full range of hours. 

Moderator: 
What would be your next step?
Participant: My next step would just be to call ahead. 

Post-Task Interview - 5 minutes
Moderator: Have you ever visited an urgent care clinic in the past (VA or non-VA)?
Participant: Yes, it was a VA clinic.

Moderator: If yes, can you tell me about that?
Participant: I was becoming ill and have asthma, so I didn’t want it to become an issue.

Moderator: Can you think of anything that would make this website easier for you to use
next time?
Participant:

Moderator: Is there anything that I haven't asked you that you think that I should know?
Participant:

Moderator: Any questions for me?
Participant: 


SCROLL BAR ISSUE

Thank-You and Closing
Well we really appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us today. Your 
feedback is so helpful to us as we continue to work on the site and make sure it really 
works for Veterans.
Thanks! Lastly, do you know any other Veterans, caregivers, or service members who 
might be willing to participate in a future user research session? If Yes: Thank you! I'll 
have our team send you an email with a little blurb that you can pass along.
Great, well thank you so much again, and enjoy the rest of your day!

