# 504 compliance chat

### Attendees

From OCTO:

- Samara

From Human capital management product line 

- Janell Garland: Business analyst
- Ronald Lease: Design engineer/architect
- MIke Meabon: Project/program manager
- Jim Betz: Program manager

### Notes

- HCM is working on an effort to make sure visually impaired veterans get notices. This is known as 504 compliance. 504 compliance means that communications are in formats accessible to people with visual impairment. This could be written communications in Braille, large print format, audio files, etc.
- ORMDI -- Office of Resolution Management, Diversity, and Inclusion is the sponsor for this.
- Request for the profile: Store a preferences in VA.gov that indicates people would like their communications to be received in a 504 compliant format, and what that format is.
- NTIS - National Techinical Information Service: The federal governement source to provide alternative formats.
- Mail service is NOT VA's mail service. It sounds like the VA works with an outside service to provide alternative formats.
- ORMDI has data of people who need alternative formats. HCM needs to figure out how to get us that data.
- HCM has already had numerous conversations with VA Profile, though it sounds like some level of definition and technical details are still in the early phases.

How this would work in VA.gov:

- We need a data point that tells us in the first place that someone needs to receive communications via 504 compliant formats.
- We would then surface the option to select alternative formats **only** in the profiles of folks who qualify.
- VA Profile would store this preference and connect to downstream services as needed.
