Medical copay business process interview - David Adcock 
----

June 25, 2021 

## Moderator logistics

Use [\#feedback-backchannel](https://dsva.slack.com/messages/C40B45NJK/details/) in Slack for real-time feedback from observers.

Before the session, send out the [observer instructions](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/blob/master/platform/research/during-research/howto-observer-instructions.md) to your observers (Slackbot will do this for you if you type "observer instructions" into \#feedback-backchannel).

In the Attendees section, make sure everyone except the participant is on mute

In the Audio section, click the drop-down arrow and make sure "Play Entry/Exit Chimes" is unchecked

Check your \[screen sharing setup\]

When the participant is ready, begin the session with the following intro

## Intro - 3 min

Thank you for joining us today! As we've been designing the MVP for this project, we've come up with a list of questions related to business processes that could influence what we're able to display within the UI. 

* Since we only have an hour to chat, I may occasionally prompt you with the next question or topic to keep us on track.
* Are you comfortable if I record my screen and audio as we talk today?
  * If yes: Once I start recording, I am going to confirm that you are ok with me recording this session once more.

Start recording.

* I have started recording. I'd like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record my screen and audio as we talk today?

## Interview questions - 30 min

### Code mapping:

In the debt portal, we have a feature where we surface backend status codes to Veterans in the form of a 'Status' and 'Next step' -- things like, "Collection is paused while we review your waiver request" and "Call us to verify your address"...

\[Link to the UXPin in case we want a visual reference: [https://preview.uxpin.com/067dc9cad4c5966bc8a5f3a400cf10206e6a51d4\#/pages/132263526/simulate/no-panels?mode=i](https://preview.uxpin.com/067dc9cad4c5966bc8a5f3a400cf10206e6a51d4#/pages/132263526/simulate/no-panels?mode=i)\] 

* What sort of backend status codes are available for copays?

Well, one of my concerns is that we don't want to over-program what a Veteran might see when they go to a web portal to inquire about their debt. To me, in something like this less is best. All the things you've shown me were items that DMC manages based on, they do the full account receivable management for GI Bill debt, home loan debt, for other VBA or potentially national cemetery debt, where they are the full accounts receivable management entity for all of that. Just FYI, for the VHA the extent of their debt management for us is for the collection of delinquent debt. Other than that, we the VHA do all the rest of the account management. If I send a bill to a Veteran, a patient statement, then that's active debt. Period. I may suspend that debt in my system/source system due to a bill dispute. But I'm really not sure about which of those items are actions that we can take wind up being reflected on a statement. What I can say is when a Veteran has what I will compartmentally categorize as new activity in their account, that is detailed on a statement. Anything else that might happen on that account, if that action doesn't fit into the category of new activity, it won't be detailed in the patient statement. It may behoove us to balance out, if you will, what activity we want to detail on their online account and have that match what we detail in the printed statements. 

The point being before we try to answer that question, we need to get answers about what transactions qualify as new activity such that they will be detailed on the patient statement. Then we can address how we want it to roll onto the online thing. A VISTA programming SME may be able to answer that, or Ernest Washington. Ernie is more familiar than me about what activity winds up being printed in a statement. I think we gotta get Ernie at the table to help us define what the things that amount to new activity. New activity may or may not equal a quote on quote 'status' because if I have a Veteran account they're gonna have a total amount payable period that includes all bills on their account. If I take an action on any of those bills that qualifies as new activity, it will be included in a subsequent statement. 

For example, if I suspend the bill due to a bill dispute, it's noted on the statement that the bill is suspended for what reason and the amount payable balance on that statement is reduced by the amount of that bill because it was suspended while doing bill dispute research. When I resolve that bill dispute, if it's a valid bill then the dispute balance goes back up again. 

* In what systems are these codes and statuses kept?

We go into our VISTA source system. If someone goes into the VISTA source system and puts it as a suspended status. It stays as a suspended status until removed. It reduces the overall amount payable by the overall amount on that bill. 

M: Is there one status and you try to keep it in your heads?

We assign a reason why we're suspending it in the system.

M: Is that something you type in or select?

It is potentially predefined reasons but there's also an opportunity for free text. The predefined reasons, they don't let me get into VISTA systems, so anything I say is based on memory. Having not been in that system for a number of years... you can only get into the system if you work the accounts and have a need to. I can't remember if there's predefined reasons or not. Even if there are, there's the capability to provide free text

M: Those are on the individual charges and not on the account as a whole?

That is on the individual bill. Some of our bills only have one charge. In that case, a charge is synonymous with a bill. Some of our bills have multiple charges on a bill so in that case it applies to the bill. I can suspend a bill.

M: If they're only challenging a single charge on a bill and  you put a suspension on the bill as a whole, will a successful dispute on one charge just drop off on the balance in the end and the rest of the charges would be returned to the balance?

Correct 

* Is there anyone we should talk to specifically to get a full list of codes?

* Once we have that list of codes, do you think it would be beneficial to review 

* those codes together with you and other SMEs to determine how they should be surfaced to Veterans as statuses and next steps?
  * Who do you think should be involved in that workshop?

### Copay line items

* We wanted to ask about the types of line items / charges that a Veteran might see on a statement, and make sure what we've designed will accommodate those items well. What we know of:
  * Inpatient copay
  * Outpatient copay
  * Prescription
  * Late fee: Interest and adm charge
  * Payments received

Any charge we might create could appear. There are inpatient charges, inpatient per diem charges, outpatient charges, and outpatient medication charges is only a subset. We have long term care charge which could involve nursing home, adult day care, etc. They would be included in a monthly statement. You probably need to find a VISTA SME and get a list of all the charges. 

* Do you have a complete list of the types of line items / charges that Veterans will receive on a statement? 

* \[If not\] Is there someone specific we could get this information from?

I am thinking your most direct route would probably be VISTA health product support team. That is the group who does VISTA maintenance and programming. Let me first give you a contact name: Pamela Gunderson. She's a VA employee in office of community care. She might have access to go right into the VISTA file and give you a list of the bill categories that could appear on a patient statement (CCPC statement). 

Now, also is there intent to include accessibility on the VA.gov or VHA debt website for non-Veteran debtors to see their debt? Often we refer to these as non-MCCF. If we want people such as that to have access to the VHA debt website so they can look at and pay their bills online as the other enrolled Veterans. That's what I'm talking about. If that's not going to be included in the first batch then we can put it as a parking lot item. 

* Are there any particularly complicated charge types?

Have you, or do you have access to look at copies of patient statements?

M: We've seen like one fake one. We haven't seen many charge types besides the 4\.

I think Pamela can help you get samples of other patient statements as well. If it's like an outpatient service, I think it might list the doctor or clinic as well as the service provided and charges for that care. Off the top of my head I don't know what all the details are for each charge type. There's detail that is variable depending on the type. Community care service charges are created that are different. You need to get samples of all the kinds so you can see the data points. I don't have access to that, sorry. 

M: On the patient statements, in the actual table, there's a description of each charge and they're all clumped together in a single line. Are those details separate in the VISTA system?

What details?

M: For example, prescriptions will say quantity, prescribing doctor, etc. Those are separate inputs in VISTA?

Yeah I think they're separate data fields in the system. The data points are captured and then the statements put them into a predefined format. 

### For the average Veteran receiving copays, how many charges do they typically see on their statements?

### Treasury Offset Program and Cross Servicing referrals

We also want to learn more about what happens to charges when they're referred to the Treasury so we can provide Veterans the correct next step.   

M: Can charges be sent to both TOP and Cross Servicing?  

Here's a higher level overview: When VHA debt becomes delinquent based on criteria to be referred for collection action, it will either go to one or both of the DMC or to the Department of Treasury where they may pursuit collection. They're two distinct pathways and different ways the debt is managed. It is possible for a debt to be at both at the same time. We try to avoid that, but it is possible.   

What I'm telling you now is related to Department of Treasury: If a bill meets criteria to be referred to the Department of Treasury, then it doesn't really matter for your purposes whether it is at TOP or Cross Servicing. 

M: Does anything change for the Veteran if it's at TOP or Cross Servicing? After something is sent to Treasury, we want to kind of inform the Veteran on the tool that some of the bills have been sent off and they need to resolve that with Treasury. We just want to make sure we're telling people to do the right thing depending on the referral. So if someone is sent to TOP do they need to contact someone different from Cross Servicing?  

Once it is at Treasury irrespective of whether it's at TOP or Cross Servicing, it's there until it's paid or until Treasury returns it to us cuz they can't collect or we recall it from Treasury. There's no timeline. Once it's there, it's there. It's not gonna come back unless one of those 3 things occurs. 

TOP is the old collection tool. Beginning in late 2016, I think, prior to 2016 any debt that we sent to Treasury was referred to the Treasury Offset Program (TOP) only. They accepted that debt and established a collection account for that debtor. THe TOP program is a passive collection program. Meaning that Treasury does not actively pursue collection for that debt. Basically, the way TOP works is that when it's in the TOP program when a debtor has a federal payment in the queue to be paid to them, such as income tax return or pandemic relief check or Social Security monthly retirement payment or other federal pension, before that payment goes out the door they look at the TOP debtor roles and if that debtor has a debt then some of all of that federal payment will be captured to pay that debt. That's the way TOP works. Nobody monitors or checks it. If something is at TOP and only at TOP, then the amount of that debt is still included and shows as payable to Veterans on their monthly patient statement. That debt is still fully manageable by us at VHA. Any debt prior to 2016 always went directly to TOP.   
  

* What decides if charges will be sent to TOP or Cross servicing?

* Is the timeline different for TOP vs Cross Servicing?
* TOP
  * What is the Veteran's experience currently when they are referred to TOP? (Do they get a letter?)

So, yes. Every debt someone owes to VA at least 3 patient statements are sent to that Veteran letting them know of the balance. Minimum of 3\. On each patient statement is Rights and Responsibilities shown to let them know that they owe it, if they need help, etc. and if they don't do anything it will be referred to debt collection. The notifications are on the initial patient statements. 

Further, if the debt remains unpaid then it will be sent to the collection agency. When Treasury gets it they send a letter to the debtor telling them their debt has been referred and if they don't do anything then we will begin collection actions. For TOP, that means that after the account has been established any federal payments will offset the payment of the debt. Treasury sends those letters. 

M: Would you happen to have a copy?

No, I don't. But if you will send me an email and include in that email Mari-Beth Nye (assistant policy analyst) we will forward it over to someone at Treasury

* What are a Veteran's options if they have charges referred to TOP? (i.e. what should we suggest they do in the UI?)

* What happens in the backend system (VISTA) when bills are sent to TOP? (Is their balance credited to the referral amount temporarily or does the charge disappear from their balance?)

In VISTA, nothing happens. It's referred. There is a datapoint in VISTA that indicates it has been referred to TOP. If referred to TOP, we still retain full account management capabilities on the account. I can increase it, decrease it, cancel it. I can do anything I can do to any normal active account. I can send a message to TOP to tell them to stop collection. If I do a decrease adjustment on a bill, let's say it starts at $50 and was supposed to be $15, that decrease adjustment will go to TOP so they will adjust the balance. Electronic updating goes back and forth. I can cancel the charge so the balance will be removed from Treasury. On a Veteran letter, a full account level, I can put a 'Stop TOP order' which will tell TOP to quit collecting on that account. They won't necessarily remove it, but they will put an indicator to stop collection. While it's active, in a collection status, it remains active in VISTA. 

M: The Veteran can still go to VHA and pay you guys and it'll reduce their debt at Treasury?

Yes. At TOP. 

* Cross Servicing

M: What's different about Cross Servicing?

In 2016 (date may be incorrect - doesn't really matter), there's a milestone date in every VISTA system where after that date everything referred to Treasury was referred to Cross Servicing program and not directly to TOP. 

Cross Servicing is a multi-collection sub agency at Treasury whereby they actively pursue debt collection through three primary tools that all align under Cross Servicing. If a debt is referred to Cross Servicing, from that point forward I no longer have full account management capabilities for that bill. I only have limited account management in that I cannot post a payment to that bill. It has to be posted to Treasury. I cannot do anything for that bill except adjust the balance if, for example, I calculated an error. Then the balance adjustment will be transmitted to the Cross Servicing program. I can recall that debt for a finite number of reasons such as: Veteran was billed in error to begin with, are deceased, or the like. 

M: That's after that arbitrary 2016 debt? All debts going forward are going to Cross Servicing?

Yes. I'd rather call it a TBD 2016 date. It is a finite date. Alternatively, what is the Veteran's experience currently when they are referred to Cross Servicing? (Do they get a letter?)

They also get a letter, but they may be slightly different from TOP letters. 

Once submitted to Cross Servicing, they'll mail letters letting them know the debt's been referred and they get a certain amount of time to respond or take action. They may use administrative wage garnishment, private collection agencies, their own Treasury staff. Here's where things get confusing: they also use TOP. Cross Servicing is a separate collection agency from TOP. Cross Servicing will use TOP as one of their tools. But it's still fully managed through Cross Servicing. While it may still be a passive agency, even if the Cross Servicing desk refers to something at TOP, it's still a debt we will as a Cross Servicing debt. 

When referred to Cross Servicing, the amount referred to Cross Servicing is removed from the patient statement. 

M: The charges are in the VISTA system, but they're suspended?

They're still in the system. Our organization has limited management capability for that debt. If I want to recall that debt there's limited reasons why. Cannot take repayments or repayment plans once it's at Treasury. The balance owed is subtracted from the account balance payable to VHA

M: Are there markers on the individual bills that say it's been referred?

Yeah, if a bill is at Cross Servicing I'll know it. 

* What are a Veteran's options if they have charges referred to Cross Servicing? (i.e. what should we suggest they do in the UI?)

* Does anything different happen on the backend when bills are sent to Cross Servicing vs TOP?

* Will we know if something is sent to TOP vs Cross Servicing?

* Is there anything else we should know about copay treasury referrals when surfacing this information to Veterans?

If you intend to include information that they can see on the web that any subset of their debt has been referred to Treasury, you can know that now since 2016 we only refer to Cross Servicing. You won't have to navigate giving people advice about referral to TOP or Cross Servicing. It's only Cross Servicing. If you intend to give them that notice then. If all you do is pull the statement information you'll be able to give them the amount owed to VHA. That amount total owed to VHA is going to reflect anything that may have been subtracted from that total based on some of it potentially being referred to Cross Servicing. If you show that statement, that statement in month one may say they owe $100 but month two $50 is referred to Cross Servicing, the statement may say 'Beginning balance $100 ending balance $50' but that amount is not reflected on the Patient Statement. It doesn't qualify as new activity. 

* Were debts that existed before Cross Servicing transferred from TOP to Cross Servicing or have they remained in TOP?

### Additional Questions

* Are there any other codes or data that aren't included in the patient statements that you think might benefit Veterans?

* We have a list of data that we're not sure if we're interpreting correctly. Do you know who we might talk to in order to understand what codes like " pH\_TOT\_CHARGES\_Output" mean? ([https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1SWU3xAsmn1AvAxc3NbGPXgBx8OIhVVX6c1Twk\_gFM8U/edit\#gid=0](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1SWU3xAsmn1AvAxc3NbGPXgBx8OIhVVX6c1Twk_gFM8U/edit#gid=0)) 

## Thank-You and Closing - 2 min

That's all the questions I have for you!

* Do you have any questions for me?

* Can you think of anyone else we should talk to that might be able to provide more insight into the topics we discussed today?

Great, well thank you so much again, and enjoy the rest of your day!  

## NEXT STEPS

* Will set up a meeting with Ernest Washington for more information on the status codes in VISTA
* Will reach out to Pamela Gunderson for information on the transaction types 
* Send an email to David and Mari-beth to see the letters from TOP and Cross Servicing. \*Request all the letters
