# September 19, 2022 VSignals Summary

*We query VSignals feedback for anything that mentions check-in. For this week, there were 111 comments that mentioned check-in.*

## 24 comments mentioned PCI
- 7 think PCI is “hard to get used to,” “not user-friendly,” “confusing,” and “a waste of time”
  - 2 think it is the texting and QR portion that is difficult
- 6 generally cited that they ran into error messages/problems and couldn’t complete PCI
  - 1 didn’t understand what appointment types are available to use PCI. They tried for an appointment type that PCI didn’t handle.
- 4 believe the connectivity at the sites hinders PCI usage
- 3 cited they/other Veterans don’t like using their cellphone/don’t have cellphones
- 3 found being directed to staff, while completing PCI, to be frustrating
  - 1 mentioned they needed to update their address
  - 1 mentioned receiving a too early message, then an insurance check message
- 1 thought they were checked in with PCI and they ended up being no showed, because the staff system didn’t have them checked in
- 1 wants PCI to be shorter; they expect VA to know some of this information
- 1 wants wayfinding directions in PCI
- 1 believed PCI led to a quick appointment

## 18 comments mentioned checking in on kiosks
- 9 want the ability to check-in on the kiosk back
- 2 mentioned that they were never able to get kiosk check-in to work for them
- 1 tried checking in on the kiosk and didn’t realize that it didn’t check them in (Their appointment had been previously canceled and they weren’t aware of it.)
- 1 had trouble scanning their card at the kiosk
- 1 was upset that they could no longer file for travel pay on the kiosk
- 1 says that the kiosk is easy to navigate

## 37 comments mentioned staff
- Many of the comments were about positive or negative staff attitudes during check-in and throughout their appointment. Feedback was received about MSAs, clinicians, and other staff roles.
  - 32 mentioned positive staff attitudes/interactions
    - Words used to describe these interactions include friendly, welcoming, polite, great customer service, professional, excellent, amazing, respectful, premium service, comprehensive, helpful, supportive, knowledgable, patient, competent, courteous, easy to talk to, outstanding, great, clear communication, pleasant
  - 3 mentioned negative staff attitudes/interactions
    - Words used to describe these interactions include too busy, short, curt, slow
- 1 wanted MSA staffing numbers to better match the Veteran volume.
 
## 12 comments gave general check-in feedback, but didn’t specify the method
- Check-in was described as: easy, simple, fast, efficient, great, problematic (due to technical issue).
- 4 thought the wait time from arrival to seeing the clinician was too long.
- 2 commented that the wait time was very short.
- 1 was confused by the pharmacy’s multi step check-in process.

1 Veteran was mis-gendered during check-in and wanted VA to make an effort to beware of this and correct.
