HCADupes.P4.2019.03.06.1430

## Intro (2 minutes)

No questions.
Comfortable with recording.
I’m having a little trouble hearing you. 

## Warm-up Questions (2 minutes)

SKIPPED.

## First Task: Sign in prompt on HCA intro page - 5 minutes

**1. Why do you think the website is suggesting you sign in before starting your application?**

(Why sign in?) OK… Why do I think what? (REPEAT) I don’t know. I suppose so they will know who I am?

**2. In real life, do you think you would sign in before starting the application or would you continue without signing in?**

(Sign in?) If it said for me to sign in, I would.

**3. What do you think will happen if you click "Start your application without signing in."?**

(Click without sign in?) Well I don’t know. Someplace along the line I’m going to have to identify myself. SO I guess I’ll have to sign in later. (If click?) I have no idea.

**4. Is there anything you think could be improved about this prompt?**

(Improve prompt?) No. Other than the fact that in order for me to get any kind of service at all, you’d have to know who I was. So to start my application without singing in seems unreasonable. 

## Second Task: Signed out ID page - 10 minutes

**Now that we're on the next page:**

**1. Can you tell me what you're looking at here?**

(What looking at?) I apologize. I have a cold. I am a Marine – we will get done. Something went wrong. Says your session should begin shortly – you can close this window now. It says GoToMeeting and connected to GTM. Don’t see the window. Says close window now. Hit the X, correct? OK. It looks like did it. Says apply for health care benefits.

(What looking at?) [Reading…] Well… I don’t see anything particularly here. Want to skip this step? I’d probably do that. 
[scroll with arrow keys\ 

**2. What do you think the purpose of this page is?**

(Purpose?) Well… to identify the person asking for assistance.

**3. Why do you think we are asking for a name/birth date/ssn *before* filling out the health care application?**

(Why?) I don’t have any idea. (Guess) Well… if I were coding this, I’d think it would select out, to do a search to find if I’m in the system.

**4. Before clicking anything, what do you think will happen when you click "Continue Application"?**

(Next?) Are you assuming I have completed this form and I’m cointinutng to the application? I’d hoope that the information I provided on this screen would carry over and populate the next screen. 

**5. Do you trust this page?**

(Trust?) Do I what? Only part I have concern about is putting gin my SS#. If it was to ask me about my last for, like the VA does, or my military number… that’s different.

(Prior?) Once again, I think it’s part of the application and that this information should carry over and populate this part of the application.

**6. What questions do you have about this page?**

(Questions?) None. Except why is it asking for my SS#.

**7. What could be improved about this page?**

(Improve?) Nothing.

**OK, let's pretend you have filled out the form. Please click into the First Name box for me — this will fill in the form in the prototype, though in real life, you'd be able to type into each field as you would normally expect to.**

**Please click "Continue to the Application." (Wait for "Please sign in prompt" to load) Now it looks like you're being asked to sign in to VA.gov.**

**1. Why do you think the site is asking you to sign in?**

(Why?) I don’t know. Once again, maybe just to ask who I am.

**2. What do you expect will happen when you sign in?**

(Expect?) I would hope I get through whatever security checks there are and get to where I need to be.

**3. How are you feeling at this point in your experience trying to get to the health care application?**

(Feel?) I’m not sure what answer you’re wanting. I feel like this is one of those things that is a little more complex than it needs to be.

**4. Imagine this were real life – what do you think you would do from here?**

(Next?) At this stage, I’d hit sign in to VA.gov.

## Third Task: LOA1 identity verification prompt and ID verification flow - 10 minutes

**So now we're back on the health care intro page, except this time you are seeing a message "Please verify your identity before applying for VA health care."**

**1. Why do you think you are seeing this prompt? Why do you think you are being asked to verify your identity before you can apply for health care?**

(Why prompt?) Because you have a desire to make things as complicated as you can. That’s what I think. 

**2. What do you think this has to do with the previous page we looked at where you had to put in your name/birth date/SSN?**

(Previous?) I did that. And now I think you’re asking me to do that again. That’s why I think it’s more complicated than necessary. (Specifically?) Nothing at all. (Unrelated)

**3. How are you feeling at this point?**

(Feel?) More complicated than needs to be.

**4. Imagine this were real life – what do you think you would do from here?**

(Next?) At this stage, says read or identify verification FAQs. So I assume that at some point I put in my mothers’ maiden name or something like that.

**5. What do you expect to happen when you click "verify my identity?"**

(Expect?) It would ask me questions like: mothers’ maiden name or things of that sort.

**6. How could this prompt be improved?**

(Improve?) Well, I don’t know. I realize you have to get me to verify who I am. And I’m not quite sure how you want to do that. (How could we clarify?) Well at this stage, I think it is wanting me to identify myself by more detailed information.
(Any other improve?) No, I don’t think so.

**Now we are at the end of this process. Before we click "Finish:"**

**1. In real life, do you think you would have completed the identity verification flow to get to the next step in the health care application process?**(Would you go through?) Well I guess it depends on how sick I am. If I’ve got a lot of free time and want to go through it, I would. Otherwise, I’d go see someone at the VA.

**2. What do you think will happen next?**

(Expect?) I would hope it would take me to a page that shows all tools necessary to get the service that I need.

## Fourth Task: LOA3 Warning - 12 minutes

**1. Tell me what you're seeing here. What is this page communicating to you?**

(Communicate?) [Reading…] I like that. If I think the information is incorrect, that is very good. In the VA, my name is incorrect now. When I talk to them, they say, that’s ok, don’t worry about that.  It looks concise and to the point to me. 

**2. Why do you think you are now being told you don't qualify for VA health care?**

(yellow box?) It’s saying that I don’t qualify. Our records show you served on active duty for less than 24 months. (Why now in process?) Since I’m applying for healthcare, it pops up. It says down below that there are some other things I can do.
(Notice date?) yes.
(Assume information from today or previous?) Looks like it is based on a previous application.

**3. How do you feel at this point?**

(Feeling?) If this were the real thing, and I saw you applied on Jan 30… well… I’d have to say well I guess I did. I can’t remember if I did on that date or not. IF it were real, I know that I applied before that.

**4. In real life, what do you think you would do next?**

(Next?) If I thought it was incorrect, I’d go to the next paragraph there and call that number.

**5. Would you reapply?**

(Reapply?) I don’t know if I’d reapply because I’m not sure what is wrong here. I’d call that number and see what they think is wrong.

**6. What do you think would happen if you clicked "Reapply for VA health care?"**

(Reapply link?) Frankly, I’m not sure. The first time I applied, I got accepted. I don’t know what the circumstances are that I got denied. [Reminded as Kim] I don’t know if I would or just call the number above.

**7. What questions do you have?**

(Question?) I don’t thnk I have any questions about it.

**8. How could this page be improved?**

(Improve?) I don’t see that it could be improved. Information is correct. Call here. There’s mental health issues. I don’t think it could be improved.


**ENROLLED**

OK…
(Communicate?) Already enrolled. How can I change my address… Obviously if I’ve seen something that is not right. I like this. As I said, my name isn’t correct at VA. My address hasn’t change in 100 yeard. That’s cool – everything is fine.
(Feel?) I like the psge. It’s fine.
(Reapply?) Well, I don’t know. Eiether that or call that number and ask why is it that I’m being rejected. You asked me what I would do if I couldn’t get healthcare. [explained purpose of page] Probably would reapply, yes. (Why?) No – I would not reapply. I just don’t think I would How can I change address – I like that. Would I reapply… No. I think it would be pointless.
(Improve?) I don’t thnk it needs to be improved. 

**REJECTED**

(Communicate?) Do you see that? Missing the word “you” in the first sentence. Income falls below… I bet that means above. [Reading] Yea, I’m not sure how I feel about his – it’s not very clear. Our records show you don’t have a service connected disability. Are you a programmer? My training was in programming. So you go, ask a question. Yes or no. If our records show you don’t have a service connected… But I do. [explained the purpose] I understand that. If it were me, and records say I don’t have an SCD… (What would you do if incorrect?) I’d call that number.
(Feel?) I like the page, it’s fine. Everything I need is there. If I have questions, there’s the phone number to call someone about it.
(Reapply?) I don’t know whether I would or not. I’m not sure… (cut off)
(Improve?) I don’t see that it can. It makes a statement, then says if you don’t like the answer, then here’s a number to call. This is fine – I like it.

**PENDING**

(Communicate?) [Reading…] OK. No – this is fine. There are scenarios here, and they are all mapped.
(Feel?) I guess it depends on my situation. Ok… I went ot the VA some years ago. And wanted to be sure I was DELETED CONTENT… Bothered me a lot. 
(Reapply?) I don’t think I would. How would I know VA needs more information? I’d call this number if I think they don’t have the correct information.
(Improve?) I don’t think it’s necessary to improve it.

**EXPIRE**

I didn’t know applications to VA expire. Oh… ok. I see. That’s fine.
I’d be disappointed. But the next thing I’d ask is what didn’t I send in. Then I’d call the number and say: what documents do you need? If they say it’s too late, OK. If it’s not too late, then they can wait for me to send them in. 
(Improve?) I don’t see that it can be. No, I think this is fine.

## Post-Task Interview - 2 minutes

**1. Overall, how did you feel about the entire experience we looked at today? How do you think you would feel if you'd had this experience in real life?**

(Feel?) I’m glad someone is trying to do something to improve it. Some time ago, the Indy VA office started to sell that they wanted Veterans to email and not call in. The system they gave us to do that with is very clumsy. Not user friendly at all. So I’m glad to see someone doing this.

(Feel?) I’d feel real let down. VA has a terrible reputation and it is not earned. Certain areas – Texas I hear is awful. The Indy VA is wonderful. But it’s not the VA – it’s people. It’s like saying the government did it – it’s not the government, it’s one guy behind a desk. 

**2. In addition to anything you have already mentioned, how could this overall experience be improved?**

I dearly love the VA. They have been so good to me. There are some stinkers in there. But overall they treat me very well. 

## Thank-You and Closing - 1 minutes
