HCADupes.P6.2019.03.07.1430

## Intro (2 minutes)

Comfortable with recording.

## Warm-up Questions (2 minutes)

- [About yourself]  OK, well I am 66 years old, retired from the army. Corporation Uniramian Richman, and law enforcement. I’m originally from hunting VW and currently in Paducah, KY.
- [Do you have a VA.gov account]  I believe so, Yes I have so logged into that.
- [Have you ever logged in on the website]  To tell you the truth I don’t know.
- [Have you ever applied for VA healthcare]  I believe so yes.

## First Task: Sign in prompt on HCA intro page - 5 minutes

**1. Why do you think the website is suggesting you sign in before starting your application?**

[Why do you think it is suggested to sign in prior]  Probably so it is specific  to you. Well, the information you are going to provide would be specific for you and not used for someone else perhaps. 

**2. In real life, do you think you would sign in before starting the application or would you continue without signing in?**

[Would you sign in]  Well, in real life you couldn’t sign in unless you have a login and password so I would assume I would have to start the application first.

[Clarification]  If I had an account I would just sign in and fill it out.

**3. What do you think will happen if you click "Start your application without signing in."?**

[Start without signing in]  I supposed if there were a link there to do it, it would let you start it without signing in.

**4. Is there anything you think could be improved about this prompt?**

[Improve gray box prompt]  It looks pretty straight forward, I don’t know if I see anything that you could improve on the top of my head.


## Second Task: Signed out ID page - 10 minutes

**Now that we're on the next page:**

**1. Can you tell me what you're looking at here?**

[What are you looking at]  Basic information for the application process.

**2. What do you think the purpose of this page is?**

[Purpose]  The purpose would apparently be to get you registered before signing in because it does not know whom I am.

[Clarification]  Entering information for the application.

**3. Why do you think we are asking for a name/birth date/ssn *before* filling out the health care application?**

[Why Name/DOB/SSN]  Well, one to make sure to know who you are and to verify that you are indeed a veteran.

**4. Before clicking anything, what do you think will happen when you click "Continue Application"?**

[What do you think will happen when you click continue]  I would like to think it would bring up more fields to fill in on the application such as branch of service and dates of service.

**5. Do you trust this page?**

[Trust]  If I were looking at this myself I would probably be a little hesitate to provide some of the personally identifiable information such as DOB and SSN.

[Why]  Identity theft and I would just be a little bit concerned that it is not an official site and someone trying to obtain the information .

**6. What questions do you have about this page?**

[Questions]  No questions really.

**7. What could be improved about this page?**

[Improve]  For basic information I don’t see that it could be improved unless you were to put a middle name to help identify the respondent.

**OK, let's pretend you have filled out the form. Please click into the First Name box for me — this will fill in the form in the prototype, though in real life, you'd be able to type into each field as you would normally expect to.**

**Please click "Continue to the Application." (Wait for "Please sign in prompt" to load) Now it looks like you're being asked to sign in to VA.gov.**

**1. Why do you think the site is asking you to sign in?**

[Why is it asking you to sign in]  Apparently looking to see if I have an account or need to create one.

[Why]  Just to see if in fact I do have one and don’t have to go through a number of steps to verify who I am.

**2. What do you expect will happen when you sign in?**

[What will happen when click sign in]  Assuming if I didn’t have an account it would let me create on and assuming I do have one it would allow me to do my sign in credentials.

**3. How are you feeling at this point in your experience trying to get to the health care application?**

[Feeling]  I would personally have liked to have an account ahead of time and signed in with that.

[How are you feeling about the application]  Right now, it looks like it is fairly simple with basic information.

**4. Imagine this were real life – what do you think you would do from here?**

[What do you think you would do from here]  Well, I guess it would depend on if I had an account of needed one. I guess I would just click on the link.

## Third Task: LOA1 identity verification prompt and ID verification flow - 10 minutes

**1. Why do you think you are seeing this prompt? Why do you think you are being asked to verify your identity before you can apply for health care?**

[Why do you see the prompt and verify identity]  Just so they don’t get someone whom is not entitled to it by being a veteran.

**2. What do you think this has to do with the previous page we looked at where you had to put in your name/birth date/SSN?**

[What about the pervious page]  I think they are trying to verify more information that was put in prior.
[Why]  Someone may have some of your identifying information trying to set up a fraudulent account.

**3. How are you feeling at this point?**

[Feeling]  It’s starting to get a little more complicated.

[Make it less complicated]  If someone had login credentials you could avoid the identity information.

**4. Imagine this were real life – what do you think you would do from here?**

[Real life what would you do]  I would go ahead and follow the prompts to get into the system.

**5. What do you expect to happen when you click "verify my identity?"**

[What do you expect to happen]  It’s probably going to give me more prompts for personal identifying information, name, SSN, rank and dates of service.

**6. How could this prompt be improved?**

[Improvements]  I mean it’s pretty straight forward I don’t think you can do much more for it.

**Now we are at the end of this process. Before we click "Finish:"**

**1. In real life, do you think you would have completed the identity verification flow to get to the next step in the health care application process?**

[Would you have done it]  Yes.

**2. What do you think will happen next?**

[What do you think will happen after finish]  It’s verifying my identity so it would bring up the actual application for health care.

## Fourth Task: LOA3 Warning - 12 minutes

**1. Tell me what you're seeing here. What is this page communicating to you?**

[What is it communicating]  I do not qualify due to serving less than 24 continuous months in service.

**2. Why do you think you are now being told you don't qualify for VA health care?**

[Why]  They took the personal identity record from DFAS and determined I do not meet the 24-month period requirement.
[Did you see]  I did not really pay any attention to that.
[Determined by previous application or current information]  Probably the current information just provided.

**3. How do you feel at this point?**
**4. In real life, what do you think you would do next?**

[Real life]  I would scroll on down to see what else it was telling me and if information is incorrect rebuttal it and follow instruction that have been provided.

**5. Would you reapply?**

[Reapply]  If I felt as if they are in error and I qualify, yes I would.

**6. What do you think would happen if you clicked "Reapply for VA health care?"**

[What would happen]  I think since I am still in the screen it would give me a message that I do not qualify or something of that nature.
[As the top of the page]  Right, since I am on that page, it would tell me the same thing.

**7. What questions do you have?**

[Questions]  No real questions, it looks pretty straight forward. If I felt if they were in error it tells me what to do to get back into the system and qualify.

**8. How could this page be improved?**

[Improvement]  I think it’s pretty straight forward and there isn’t anything on top of my head to improve on.

**Enrolled**

- [What is it communication]  Well, it looks like I am already enroll and if I have any information to change it gives me the looks like links to go I and change the information.
- [How would you feel]  Well, if I saw this page and I’m already enrolled I’d feel like a knuckhead, it tells me I’m already enrolled. So, if I went back to reenroll it would be a lick on me.
- [Would you reapply]  No, I wouldn’t reapply. I would maybe, if I forgot my login information or my information change I would try to get back into the system.
- [Improvement]  Again, it looks pretty straight forward. I don’t see anything that you could improve.

**Rejected**

- [What is it communicating]  Well, it looks like I previously applied and did not qualify because I don’t have a service-connected disability and it tells me about the eligible requirements, about 24 months and if I have questions about eligibility. It provides contact information.
- [Feeling]  If I saw this page I would again think if I didn’t qualify before I guess it would be someone that was trying to beat the system.  If I had more information I would follow the prompt on the screen for questions about my eligibility.
- [Reapply]  Only if I felt like something has changed to qualify me.
- [Improve]  It pretty straight forward, the only think I would do is that first sentence that is bolded, it needs the word - [you[ in there to read you do not have a service-connected disability

**Pending**

- [Communication]  Just like it says, they are reviewing my application to see if I qualify and if they need more information they will contact me and if they need anything they will contact me and not to bother them
- [Feeling]  Again, pretty straight forward, take it for what it is and wait to hear someone
- [Reapply]  No, I mean they are reviewing it. I would sit tight and wait for the process to play out. If it were taking too long, I would use the contact number provided.
- [Improve]  Again, pretty straight forward. I don’t see anything on the top off my head to improve.

**Expired**

- [Communication]  It’s telling me that my application is not being worked on because I did not submit all needed documents within a years’ time period and if I need to reapply to reapply again
- [Feeling]  Well again if it was telling me that apparently it was something I failed to do because it would be a kick in the seed of the pants, and I could use the contact number to see what else they need.
- [Reapply]  Yes.
- [Improve]  It’s pretty straight forward, tell you exactly what you need to do. I don’t see any improvements.

## Post-Task Interview - 2 minutes

**1. Overall, how did you feel about the entire experience we looked at today? How do you think you would feel if you'd had this experience in real life?**

[Feeling about process]  I think it was pretty straight forward and simple.
[Real life]  I would feel probably pretty good at it its pretty straight forward, information is pretty simple you would have right off the top of your head.

**2. In addition to anything you have already mentioned, how could this overall experience be improved?**

[Improve]  I think the ability to get in to the system with some type of login credentials would make it easier to get right in and access the application.

- [Questions]  No, how’s the VA going to use this information.
- [Clarification]  Yes, we are looking at the screens that we are thinking about adding to the website to add to the system to assists individual. There is more than one person that reapplies and do not know they are enrolled, and they assume that they are not enrolled even when they are, we are trying to communication about their status is better to people on the website. The information is going to be used to better the process prior to putting it on the website.
- [Any further questions]  No, I do not believe so.

## Thank-You and Closing - 1 minutes

Well we really appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us today. Your feedback is so helpful to us as we continue to work on the site and make sure it really works for Veterans.

As a thank you for your participation, we'd like to send you a $50 thank-you check. This will be sent by (Brian/Shannon from) Perigean, the people that recruited you to talk to us today. They'll work with you to figure out the right place to send it.
