# Vet Center Outreach Specialist Interview

**Interview date:** August 26, 2020 <br></br>
**Time:** 1pm


## Questions
[GENERATIVE QUESTIONING – 30 MIN]

**Warm up**
* How long have you been an outreach specialist at the VA?
> Worked for RCS, VC prog for 10 yrs. 6 yrs as OR specialist 6 yrs in Nov. Started as a client. 

> Initially got out of military in 2006. Had never heard of a VC. Just had a checklist to get signed off on as quickly as possible. I Googled it 1 day and went into CO Springs VC. DIdn’t really get along with Air Force guy at that VC. 

* What brought you to this line of work?
> 

* Have you worked as an outreach specialist in more than one district or region?
>  I went to community college. Work study at the VC. Was an outstation then and they decided to make it a VC. Asked me to be the office manager. Began as GS-5 down in Pueblo, then transferred to the Colorado Springs VC. 

> Involved with strategic planning last 2 yrs. 

**Role**
* How would you describe your role at VA?
> I joke around that I’m the “gatekeeper.” My job to get the word out and make sure the people we are bringing in to the VC are appropriate. And if not, get those people to the right resources. 

* What are your main duties and responsibilities?
> 

* If you had to break down these responsibilities into percentages, what might that look like?
> “Primarily my job is to be out.” 75% out in community, being involved. 9 counties. Aspen, CO to KS state line. Usually I have 3 days of events, meetings. 25% of time in office. 

> We use a contract card, a digital one. Capture the info, put in system. Info sent to director, then counselor is assigned. If there is something special like MST female wanting female counselor, I make sure director knows. 

> With active clients, I tell director of their interests. 

> I bring new folks to director, and if they have ?s, I let the director know. 

> Typically capture main info on contract card. I try to determine eligibility off the bat. Usually ask vets if they meet at least 1 of eligibility criteria — I don’t have all criteria listed on card.

> We use the contract card locally. 3”x5” card. We use it in district. Just need name and the vet’s “last 4.” 

> All VCs use RCSNet. 

> I account for my productivity. Based on hours worked, I have to have a certain number of new contacts. I am at GS-11 level. High level for VCs — so I am required to have a certain number of visit hours because of that. 

* How about the role of the clinicians at your Vet Center, can you tell me what that role looks like?
> 

**Eligibility**
* Can you walk me through the process for determining eligibility for Vet Center services?
> I have 5 military installations. Iraq or Afghanistan or MST is bulk of our eligibility. 

> Like to see the DD214. We have to have it within 3 visits. We trust vets if they say MST — that will not be on your DD214. 

* How does a Vet Center validate a client’s eligibility?
> 

* How does a potential client figure out their own eligibility? e.g., a non-married couple
> “A lot of them don’t really know.” I ask them when they call. We put out flyers, put out info. “I’d say 9 out of 10 ppl who call already understand the eligibility and understand they are eligible, and that’s why they are calling.”

> Not too much confusion. 1 client was in a bombing in Lebanon yrs ago — OK, you are eligible. My director is more inclusive. If you are in a rollover accident — OK, you are eligible. 

> RE: eligibility: “I let the counselors figure that out.” “I try not to get into the mud.”

> Not a lot of families now. Some spouses.

> GWAT guys, female MST clients. (GWAT = Global War on Terror)

 * What questions do they ask you the most?
> 

 * Is there anything particularly difficult or confusing about this process?
> 

* When a client comes into a Vet Center, how do you determine if someone is eligible? Honor system do they have to show identification?
> 

* Do different types of clients tend to need different services, e.g. a Veteran vs a spouse or child?
> 

**Interacting with Clients**
* What are the different ways in which you interact with your clients? e.g. Phone, in person, one-on-one, in a group setting, in the community?
> Monthly table at local Army base when the guys are getting out. See if they are interested, eligible. 

> Because my area is so large, I like to visit every one of my county veteran’s service offices. 

> With it being such a sensitive subject as mental health, “I’m not going to run them [veterans] down.” 

> In office, I’m on the phone. 

> 75% of our calls are for the VA clinic. “It’s pretty much all phone nowadays.” Splitting 50-50 with office manager. 5-7 new clients a week. 

> There was a lull, but now a lot of vets are struggling with mental health and reaching out more. (Think he meant there was a lull initially with COVID.)

 * Are there other ways you would see interacting with Veterans? (e.g., chatbot, email)
> With district group, trying to think of ways to do local outreach. Sensitive, private, confidential. Looking at Zoom. Locally we have been doing some groups outdoors. 
> 
> “I might go sit with some groups just to get the credit I need and answer some ?s they may have.”

> The VA as a whole is going to have to figure out how to do interaction in COVID times. 

> Community partners are doing things virtually. 

> Outstation I worked at initially was a regular VC when I started. I was not an employee at time. The office manager helped me pick colors, decorate. I was not employed but helped plan and build the VC. 

LH - Mobile VCs?
> We had one for a while. Lost operator. I was busy with military centers. Our MVC went to Pueblo. 

> MVC - technically it’s a requirement to be on the road 3 days a week. About the director in Pueblo: “He is now looking at doing some outreach in my area because he’s struggling to get some numbers.”

* Once a client starts using services, does the relationship between you and the client end or change?
> 

**Clients**
* Can you describe the different types of clients that you work with?
> Typically they come in for clinical appointments. I may check in with them. Chatting, answering their ?s. 

> Clinical groups - they bring me in as needed. I help answer ?s, help them get involved with community orgs. 

> I do a recreational therapy group, put it in computer as outreach because it’s not really therapy. Going fishing. Talk there. “It’s just trying to get them out.” Not a lot of fishing now because of COVID. 

> Few different equine therapy groups. (Missed a group he mentioned.)

> Vietnam, Iraq-Afghanistan. Used to do art groups, primarily for MST. 

> 30-40 age group.

> Vietnam specific groups. 

> Gulf group is “kind of all eras” (ages).

> Hiking group - primarily Iraq-Afghanistan, I think, because of physical ability. 

 * If you had to break down the types into percentages that you work with, what might that look like?
> 

* Where in the journey are your clients. e.g. Newly separated, families during bereavement, family In crisis mode
> 

* If you had to breakdown these stages in the journey that your clients fall into, what might that look like?
> 

**Services**
* What services are used most frequently by your clients?
> Individual and group counseling and linkage to other services. 
> 
> Some folks might want to use our services for “Claim” down the road, through “Comp” and “Pen.”

* How about those used least frequently?
> Substance abuse assessment and referral. Vets know they will probably end up at “Big VA.”
> 
>  Medical referral - vets know they will probably end up at “Big VA.”

> I’’m 100% disabled, so all services are free to me. 

> W.r.t. cost, I have only seen a few vets who cd not get free services through VA. They might have had their own pensions, waited too long to engage with VA. In that case, you would still not pay much. 

> As long as you are service-connected, come to us. 

* Are some services more automated vs needing to be more hands-on?
>  Local art service that has a website — that is somewhat automated for our clients. But “everything else we do is hands on.”

* Does your Vet center offer recreational outings or other activities?
> See hiking group above ^ .

* If so, how are are these offerings categorized? Do they fall under counseling or events or are they their own category?
> 

* How will Vets find out about these services?
> 

**Events**
* What are some examples of events or recreational activities that you’ve put on or promoted (pre and post COVID)?
> RCS has a history of not being able to pay for vendor space. Challenge for us in having events. 

> Making connections, resource fair, job fairs, monthly ETS briefings at military installations. Engaging with small groups. 

> Veterans’ running event. 
> 
> Really any events I hear about, I try to get a spot at them. If it’s anything where we think vets will be there, I would volunteer to go. Evening, weekend, whatever. 

> Our own events: open houses, Vietnam vet recognition ceremonies. 

LH - how promote events? 
> Press release — these did not typically make it as high as Jessica. So we piggyback on other advertising. 

> Example: 2 yrs ago - VetFest. Softball game with concert. VHA and VBA were there. (They have more advertising avenues.) We were not specifically listed as a vendor. All VA resources were there except NCA, cemeteries. 

> The biggest icebreaker for me is the tent and materials. Red, white and blue. I usually have gun locks and stress balls. People come over. 

> “We draw them in visually, as far as I’ve experienced.”

> Lay out benefits books, a resource sheet. “You have to have something out that they feel has value.”

> We don’t really advertise our groups since they are not open groups — they’re closed groups. 

LH - you mentioned process of someone calling. Is that a different process? 
> I used to bring all the business cards back, put them in computer. I would give to my director; he would assign the counselor. Now I get snapshot of info in and encrypted email — send to director.

> Clinicians manage their own activities. ‘You’re kind of like your own practice under the auspices of the VA.” “As long as the VC director or manager approves, you’re good.”

> I don’t see them publicizing or promoting groups. Again, it’s because the groups are closed. “A vet could not just jump in from off the street today.”

> Staff talk to each other about what activities. 

> No social media. “I’m not super savvy.” 

> Likes calendar for events. “I think that’d be cool.”

> I am member of vets outdoor organization in my personal life — I will post those activities, may end up talking to a vet there. I would just create an Outlook event with a vet as a contact. If they choose to engage in services, they would be a client. It’s no different from me getting someone’s info at a table at an event. 

> County is rich in partners, resources. 

> Community partnerships - 2 main ones. Both are 501C nonprofits. One is an organization you can call for a service dog or whatever - a peer navigator helps vets get all kinds of resources. 
> 
> Other organization is a brick and mortar with legal, benefits, VA eyeglasses, mental health. “You name it, and they can do it pretty much in-house…. It may take you a little time, but you can get it done in 1 place.” I know our counselors refer to this organization as well. 

* Who initiates the events?
> 

* Can you walk me through what it looks like to put on an event?
> 

* Are they Vet Center specific?
> 

* Are there recurring events that Vet Centers offer?
> 

**Tools**
* What tools, websites or resources do you use to plan and publicize outreach events?
> 

* How do these help you do your job?
> As far as tech, there have been some mutterings about getting iPads so we can get the data to RCSNet as fast as possible. “It touches so many hands before it gets to where it needs to be… We could definitely run this thing a lot smoother.” Hard to get on RCS from my phone “with all the PKIs.”

> Like idea of the pictures of the VC. Understand the need to take good pictures. 
> 
> Website should have a quick snapshot of what VCs do. No matter what page you pop up on, you get that info. 

> Community access points (CAPs): Suggest we do not put those on the website. In a certain place, the counselor may be only there 1 day a week. “It all has to go through the brick and mortar.” Maybe CAPs are different for different VCs.

> Staff bios. We are over 85% staffed by vets, I think overall. We only have 1 therapist here who wasn’t in the military. “Having that individual see that we are that way would be helpful from their standpoint.)

> Maybe just bios, not pictures of people. Maybe have flexibility for pictures, tho.

LH - what is the most important thing a vet should get out of visiting website for 1st time? Your CO Springs VC.
> “Give me the most relevant info about it. In the most efficient package as soon as you get there… I should not have to go through 3 pages of stuff before you find out the hours, the phone umber…. Being able to prove the best snapshot right off the bat.” People of my era — we’re in the hurry. 

> VOPs - Veterans Outreach Specialist 

> Calendar would only work well from the VOPs and MVC perspective. Showing where the mobile VC (MVC) will be on X date. Not as helpful with the groups. But maybe other VCs have walk-in groups. VOPs and MVC folks are challenged to get the word out. This would be a helpful option.

> It changes our productivity with regard to numbers if you have your own MVC person. 

MM - tri-folds, local resources sheet. Good for website?
> “That would actually be pretty cool to have on there. Maybe not as comprehensive..” If you are looking for VBA benefits or health care, give them the info. Hotlines, resources, medical facilities, jobs, housing, etc. 
> 
> He will send us the materials. He will also send the contract card. 

* Do you use or keep mailing lists, listservs, social media?
> 

* Partnership organizations, e.g. universities, print media?
> 

* From a technology perspective, what could be improved to help you in your outreach?
> 

### Closing
* Any questions for us?
> 

* Was there anything that I didn’t ask that you think that I should know?
> 
