# Vet Center Outreach Specialist Interview

**Interview date:** August 20, 2020 <br></br>
**Time:** 2pm

### Questions
[GENERATIVE QUESTIONING – 30 MIN]

**Abbreviations:**
* VC = Vet Center
* OR = outreach
* ppl = people 
* spec’ist = specialist
* diff = different
* convo = conversation 
* thru = through
* ops = operations 

**Warm up**
* How long have you been an outreach specialist at the VA?
> Coming up on 12 years. New District 5 rep. 

* What brought you to this line of work?
> After left Army (2001-2004), I went to college. Did not know what I was going to do after I transitioned. Met with outreach rep. Seemed like a really interesting job. Liked idea of connecting with other vets, helping them navigate. 

> Did not think it would be a career. Did not understand the VA at that time. 

* Have you worked as an outreach specialist in more than one district or region?
> In Reno the whole time. When I started, they did not have Districts. There were smaller areas. Our office was out of Denver, CO before. 

**Background/ The Role**
* How would you describe your role at VA?
> “It seems like a really simple question. But it’s really broad in a lot of ways.”

> It’s really easy to become internally focused at VA. We are really the only ppl out there working with ppl. ‘That term outreach is a really crucial term for what we do. Just being out there… .Just making sure you are connected to as many of those really primary resources… And of course, the VA.”  “ Being out there. Being in the community.” 

* What are your main duties and responsibilities?
> Reno is a bit diff. 1st, we have 2 OR spec’ists. Most VCs have 1. We split duties. I work with community partners. Law enforcement, giving a presence. Justice involves vets. Making sure vets are on the VA’s’ radar. 

> Events and community projects. 

> Other OR spec’ist focuses on events like hiking, yoga. Events hat bring quality to vets’ lives. 

> We have a lot of events in Vegas. Week long or longer. And we make contact with vets not necessarily from Reno. Car event. Air races. 

> That ^ kind of changes the way we deal with ppl bc we are trying to figure our where they are from. “We run into 100s in Reno who don’t live in Reno.” Las Vegas also has a VC. 

* If you had to break down these responsibilities into percentages, what might that look like?
> I’ve never really thought of it from % standpoint. 
> 
> Trying to find partners for events. Like schools. Community places. Takes lot of time to execute events like a BBQ at a school. Probably 40-50% of my time is spent on this. 

> In the summer, the events are almost constant. This summer has been really weird. Almost nonstop May to November. When I’m at an event, I just sit at that table and try to figure out why the vet came. 

> We are trying to figure out how to do outreach in other ways. 

* What does a typical week look like for you?
> 

**Eligibility**
* Can you walk me through the process for determining eligibility for Vet Center services?
> Like how we verify it? 

> It kind of starts out with a convo with someone. For me, in my role, I don’t start out looking at the VC side, though we do have criteria. We don’t ever say like, “Did you serve in combat?” I try to figure out what era, what branch they served in. Hopefully it comes up in convo. We are trying to figure out if they served in combat theater — that’s the strongest criterion.

> Military sexual trauma usually comes thru referrals, maybe from another VA employee. 

> Bereavement counseling - usually they come thru military or thru network of gold star family members. 

> Don’t typically run into these last 2 types of ppl out in the field, though it has happened. 

> Subcategories: ppl who served in mortuary affairs or drone program. Both small. We have a bunch of drone ppl in NV. Secret program.

> I always trust what ppl are telling me. “We’re not trying to disqualify ppl to come here. That’s not my role…. I’m going to do whatever I can to get them in.”

* How does a Vet Center validate a client’s eligibility?
> 

* How does a potential client figure out their own eligibility? (e.g., a non-married couple)
> This has been helpful: Everyone who leaves military are getting a briefed on their own eligibility. When I left military, I had 1 focus, which was to go to school. Anyone in active duty will get a briefiying either from us or from someone who will tell them their eligibility. 

> But often ppl are not listening during that briefing.. They are overwhelmed. We have to tell them 20-30 times. 

> Video re: eligibility. 2 major ones ppl are going to run into: combat, sexual trauma. They would know they were eligible. 

* What questions do they ask you the most?
> Only confusion would be ppl who served. Iraq. Kuwait, Bahrain, etc are other countries that support drone prog. They are eligible and they don’t know it - they are if they supported those ops. But they think they are not eligible bc not in Iraq. 

> Most typical documentation for verifying is DD214 paperwork. Shows when person served and where. Also campaign or expeditionary medals (those should be on a DD214). My boss - it took 2 years to get the correct medal on his DD214 to get VC services. 

> “99% of the time we are going to be able to say: this person, they’re in the right spot.”

> Also, “movement orders” that show when person enters.

> “We’ll try to do whatever we can to make that person eligible.”

* Is there anything particularly difficult or confusing about this process?
> 

* When a client comes into a Vet Center, how do you determine if someone is eligible? Honor system do they have to show identification?
> 

* Do different types of clients tend to need different services, e.g. a Veteran vs a spouse or child?
> 

**Interacting with Clients**
* What are the different ways in which you interact with your clients? e.g. Phone, in person, one-on-one, in a group setting, in the community?
> 1) Clients walk into VC. 
> 
> 2) Once they’re actually a client, we get called by the counselors, who have less knowledge of VA programs. We can help connect with job resources. File disability claim - counselors will schedule with us to explain disability, how process works. 

> 3) Projects like a hike. Ask counselors to get their clients for the events. Then OR spec’ists will contact clients. 

* Does the way you do your job differ depending on the format?
> 

* Are there other ways you would see interacting with Veterans? (e.g., chatbot, email)
> Haven’t thought about this. We need to think about new ways to reach ppl if this continues. We have good relationship with clients and counselors. We will have to think of diff ways to reach ppl, will be more challenging. Especially in Reno, where every event is cancelled and there will be no way to reach the clients we had previously. 

> This would make it easier to interact with clients from web standpoint: would be nice to have a way to reach clients who are here or who have been here easily .Being able to isolate diff groups. Can’t blast it out to everyone because some not eligible.

> One of biggest criticisms we get is I’ll be at meeting at hospital —  person says I didn’t know about a fishing event. I can’t put that info out to everyone. We don’t necessarily offer our services to every vet. Would be nice to contact all ppl we’ve had interaction with. 

* Does a relationship between a client and outreach specialist evolve or change over time?
> 

**Clients**
* Can you describe the different types of clients that you work with?
> 

* If you had to break down the types into percentages that you work with, what might that look like?
> Varied. Interesting that we have this generational thing - Vietnam and Iraq vets might have diff needs. Might both want counseling. Older ppl might be retiring. But the ppl we are interacting with are all having some kind of difficulty — interpersonal struggles or bigger issues with the law or employment because they are “so far sideways,” that friends are telling them so. 

> Diffs between ppl in cities and rural. Might not want government vehicle on their priority out in rural areas. Diff type of person. City ppl usually more likely to engage. 

> Half and half Iraq/Afghanistan to Vietnam. 260-300 active clients. 
> 
> 10% military sexual trauma, which has been rising lately. Our public affairs person is a survivor of MST. He is telling his story; we were getting a lot more ppl for a while. Doing events. I talk about my experience in Iraq. 

> 2 WWII vets, couple Gold Star families. 

* Where in the journey are your clients? (e.g. newly separated, families during bereavement, family In crisis mode)
> 

* If you had to breakdown these stages in the journey that your clients fall into, what might that look like?
> 

**Services**
* What services do you personally support most frequently?
> We have the official protocols the counselors use, but “My job is to get the person in the right place.” Person might need medical intervention. 
> 
> Start with “What’s going on with you?” Awkward though because person lot of times doesn’t realize what’s going on.

> I want to get them to a counselor who can help them. Or to get them to the VA. Could need emergency services or same day psych visit. Maybe have not had meds for 2 weeks, really freaking out. May need assessment. 

> I ask, “Why are we talking? What are your questions? How can I help you?”
> 
> “The vast majority that we have contact with are going somewhere else.” But Reno is so different. Most ppl are coming thru referrals. Someone we have had contact with on the outside refer vets. Police, VA - we want them to send ppl. We are interacting with ppl mostly thru someone else or out in the field. 

> Most ppl don’t think of us as the VA. Often they are asking about something else, like home loan. I always try to tell them what we do and my role. 

* What services do you personally support least frequently?
> 

* Are some services more automated vs needing to be more hands-on?
> 

* What’s are some challenging aspects of supporting these services?
> 

* How will Vets find out about these services?
> 

**Events**
* What are some examples of events or recreational activities that you’ve put on or promoted (pre and post COVID)?
> 

* Who initiates the events?
> 

* Can you walk me through what it looks like to put on an event?
> Operation Battle Borne. Rucking is moving your equipment with you; you are not moving by vehicle. We walk from UNLV college to Reno. 474 (?) miles. Carry dog tags. Teams. Partnerships with directors at schools. Takes a lot to prepare. 200 vet participants. Helps us have a strong relationship with the community. 
> 
> “It’s not just about us. We are trying to do things to help with veteran issues.”  State and VFW help with this ^ event.
> 
> When we do events like hiking or running, we have training. 
> 
> The best person to tell someone about the VC is someone who used our services. “There’s nothing we can do that’s better than that.“

> Crisis intervention training at law enforcement. Give 4 hour presentation. But it’s to make me their contact so they will refer vets who need help to me on an ongoing basis. Usually schedule these a year out. Takes some prep. 

> “What can we do, first that gives us a purpose, gives ppl something to look forward to, and connects us to our community partners?” I am always trying to figure out what to do. Got  students, directors involved. (He was referring to a specific event.)

More nationwide events? 
> Reno is unique. Many factors. The most important thing about  VCs is we don’t look at it as you should do this because someone else did. 

> “It’s wrong to say very VC should do this type of project. This is a problem with VA. 

> VC has lot of flexibility. Really appreciate this. 

> Outdoor activities. Hired contractor, coordinated ski trips with the district. Our VC: We have to find creative ways to make events, we don’t have separate funding.


* Are they Vet Center specific?
> 

* Are there recurring events that Vet Centers offer?
> 

**Tools**
* What tools, websites or resources do you use to plan and publicize outreach events?
> Lot of external things. For Operation Battle Borne, used EventBrite. That is were our partners can help, take lead. They are pushing it out through social media. We don’t have a way to use social media. The public affairs director at VA will put our stuff on VA Facebook, but that is not really helpful.

> Don’t think we are allowed to have a Facebook page especially for the VC. 

> Reach clients by email. Need way to use email more effectively. If we wanted to email all our current clients, there is a way to paste emails into a spreadsheet.

> “Work studies:” Students assigned to VC. They get paid to work with VA. They are very helpful. 

> We always tell counselors to reach out to clients if we are having an event. 

> “It’s a very analog process. .. But I don’t want to discount, because I know who our clients are.” “I’m very reliant on having personal contact with ppl…. They know me.”

> Outstation 250 miles away in Elco (sp?), NV. Counselor there is great. We try to get up there once a year. In some ways it’s easier in the “rurals.” (Think he referred to partners helping there.)

> Outstation - Tahoe Vietnam Vets group. They don’t want contact with a lot of ppl. I try to be their bridge to resources in the Valley. 

> We try to piggyback on the counseling, and we go out into the community. 

* How do these help you do your job?
> 

* Do you use or keep mailing lists, listservs, social media?
> 

* Partnership organizations, e.g. universities, print media?
> 

* From a technology perspective, what could be improved to help you in your outreach?
> Way to text ppl in a “mass” way. Especially with ppl’s appointments — the hospital texts ppl appointment reminders. Having individual social media accounts are great, but you have to maintain. Don’t know… “I have kind of written that off.”

> VA websites - good to show ppl who we are. “Ppl don’t really know who I am.” “There’s nothing on the web about us.”

### Closing
* Any questions for us?
> 

* Was there anything that I didn’t ask that you think that I should know?
> 

*If time permits… but most likely a separate session*
### Vet Center Page Critique
[CRITIQUE OF CURRENT DETAIL PAGE – 15 MIN]

 [Current Vet Center page example](https://www.va.gov/find-locations/facility/vc_0342V) 

This is what a Vet Center page looks like today, in an ideal world, what would the page look like if it was first exposure that a Veteran or service member had to your Vet Center, maybe after they did a google search.

* What would be the most important thing(s) that they should be able to learn or understand.
> 

* What could be improved about [this] website to improve your needs as an outreach specialist?
> 

* Thinking of all those first conversations with new and potential clients, what would they change?
> 

[SWITCH TO EVENT PAGE]

 [Event page example](https://www.va.gov/outreach-and-events/events/sierra-vista-arizona-resource-fair/) 

* What about a page like this? How does a page like this fit into your workflow?
> 
