# Vet Center Outreach Specialist Interview 

**Interview date:** August 20, 2020 <br></br>
**Time:** 1:00pm

VC = Vet Center

### Questions

[GENERATIVE QUESTIONING – 30 MIN]

**Warm up**
* How long have you been an outreach specialist at the VA?
> In 4 days, it will be 7 years. 

> He is in Springfield, MA. 

* What brought you to this line of work?
> Was active Army 8 yrs. Did couple deployments to Iraq. Really loved the military. After 4 yrs out, began college. ~6 yrs out got Bachelors in criminal justice. Thought about going back to military. Was staff sargeant. Loved different ideas, unique experiences. Thought about law enforcement. Thought about becoming DoD police offcer. Realized that was not right. 

> Was fortunate to find out about Vet Center. Am from Western MA. Heard about outreach opportunity from counselors. (At an event?) 

> I have taken what I learned in military and tried to grow that over time. I have 3 daughters: 6, 9, and 13. A lesson in patience. "I absolutely love what I do." 

> Got masters degree to be counselor during my time here. Don't have license. Did internship. "You just kind of like know where your limit is." I have been focusing on outreach for past couple yrs. Love vets, love working with them, love the clinical aspect of what we do. Love getting out in community. "I think that passion feeds what you do... You genuinely believe in what you are doing."

* Have you worked as an outreach specialist in more than one district or region?
> Been outreach specialist in Springfield the entire time. Unique thing is opportunities given to me, that I have sought, or given to me by district office. We have a lot of outreach specialists across country. I was asked to go to St. Louis to participate in helping define what we are and to leadership summit/training. Have been networking, finding out what happens in other areas of the US. 

**Background/ The Role**
* How would you describe your role at VA?
> Multi-faceted approach. From my perspective, it's not just getting the word out about the VC program to service members, vets, and families. It's also aboug letting them know about our services, what we provide. Big piece of what's missed is actually in our mission statement: Overall goal is to provide services, but also to provide appropriate referrals. This really broadens the scope for the outreach specialist. It's not just going to service members and families; it is also about establishing relationships with community stakeholders like VSOs. For example, we have a local donut shop, Donut Dip. They donate to us, make extra stuff so we can give to our vets. Creates a nicer environment at our VC. 

> Also community health, medical centers. Being able to establish relationships in communities. "One of my main goals is networking." With our lack of visiblity online and with social media... I talk a lot. The passion, dedication to service and support is really needed. 

> Another piece: being able to provde the team here additional resources. The team here might not understand how to help a vet find resources. As an outreach specialist, I help the team help a vet find benefit services. Connecting people who can help a vet get services. 

> "Multifaceted apaproach."

* What are your main duties and responsibilities?
> 

* If you had to break down these responsibilities into percentages, what might that look like?
> Vets are IDed as service members who left military. Also active duty service members. 

> Your clientele will depend on the area of the country you are in. Some VCs are near miliary bases.

> 10-15% of time with current service members - outreach. Maybe 20%. We are struggling with a lot of that stuff. Currently we are running into roadblocks establishing connections with military bases and leadership. 

> With COVID, it is a bit different. Normally I spend about 1/2 my time in an outreach event. Going to loc businesses, colleges. Spend time engaging with communities. Vets and families or community stakeholders. 

> 25% of time in office outreach planning, making connections, reaching out to people. Helping out with whatever odds and ends. Clinical support for Afghanistan vets. Maybe helping office manager answer phones. 

> I can't engage in community now because of COVID. I am working on planning. How do we do that? Social media. We developed newsletters. We are doing things to help supplement the other things we are not doing now because of COVID. 

* What does a typical week look like for you?
> Xxx

**Eligibility**
* Can you walk me through the process for determining eligibility for Vet Center services?
> At national level, I brought up this as a concern. It still needs to be addressed further: We are not jsut readjustment counseling: we are a referral. So if vets are not eligible, we can refer them. 

> It's really important because if someone looks at eligibility criteria and doesn't feel they meet it, we don't want to put up roadblock. I can still help connect them with community.

> "Being that bridge or that warm handoff is something we bypass. I see it all the time." Vet thinks we can't help. We need to focus on what they need. 

> On the website... When we say "combat veteran" (as a criterion for eligibility), they think it means they must have been in combat, shooting at people. But the vet could be a cook, support person away from family. "That cook might have a lot of readjustment issues they are trying to work through. Making them feel like the have a voice is extremely important."

> VC program started with Vietnam vets. Recognizng they had readjustment issues. It started as peer-to-peer vet support group. Then clinical treatment as an option. 1990s expanded eligibility for survivors of military sexual trauma. Continued to expand for providing medical care for casualites of war. 

Drone crews - this is very, very new. Only since late '90s, 2000s. We work with family members, including bereavement. Have trained clinicians who help with that. 

* How does a Vet Center validate a client’s eligibility?
> When initially engaging that vet and finding if they are eligible, I am not immediately thinking, "Oh, are they eligible? I will get to that as I figure out what that service member is looking for."

> Eligibility for clinical services, eligibility for referrals. "We want to be that place that provides that." (referrals)

> When talking to them, I go through the criteria; I go thru carefully. Military sexual trauma. We offer trauma-informed care. We offer these categories. Do you fit into one? We ask gently. "There's no rush. Take our time doing that." "We have Vietnam vets who've been coming to our VC since the 1980s."

> When we do talk about things on our website and talk about eligibility, "we need to talk about referrals, too."

* How does a potential client figure out their own eligibility? (e.g., a non-married couple)
> With us, we're heavily relied on to clarify that. When it comes to branding, and our marketing materials, we need to convey that. "It's not just a nuclear family... it's whatever family is considered to you." We have helped parents.

> We had to get away from "help without hassles" branding we had. Need to state our services without putting anyone down.

> "Eliminating barriers to care is extremely important." "Finding out what family means to them." Boyfriend, girlfriend, children -- I just tell them that.

* What questions do they ask you the most?
> Xxx

* Is there anything particularly difficult or confusing about this process?
> Xxx

* When a client comes into a Vet Center, how do you determine if someone is eligible? Honor system do they have to show identification?
> Xxx

* Do different types of clients tend to need different services, e.g. a Veteran vs a spouse or child?
> Across the spectrum, we have spouses (more so with Vietam vets)... You mean utilize the family aspect of our services more than others?

MM - Who tends to initiate? Touch point?

> Ideal way we are going to engage, the primary way, is that vet or service member. Important reason behind that is our recordkeeping. We use the DD214 to determine eligibility. We take service members' word for PTSD. Majority of service members we work with are combat vets or they worked in areas of hostility. That is on their paperwork.

> We use the vet's SSN. Vet has to initiate. If for some reason courts get involved, the vet is the "owner of that record." A vet might be divorced. The vet must be engaged in some capacity. (Here he mentioned clinical staff.)

> Often service members don't want to reach out, and the spouse asks the VC for help. That's where we come in as the outreach specialist. We don't cold call. We want that vet to engage. We have to find a way. That's why we go out in community. Recruitment. Grabbing cup of coffee. Their 1st appt doesn't have to be with a clinician. 

> "We just want to get them into the VC to engage with services." "We have to figure out how to be innovative, how to navigate that." Different depending on area of country. Different types of events. Maybe just having a hamburger with other Vets.  

**Interacting with Clients**
* What are the different ways in which you interact with your clients? e.g. Phone, in person, one-on-one, in a group setting, in the community?
> Xxx

* Does the way you do your job differ depending on the format?
> Xxx

* Are there other ways you would see interacting with Veterans? (e.g., chatbot, email)
> "We are struggling with the social media side." Being able to have a platform. Doing 2 virtual info sessions. Zoom. Pushing that out with a flyer. Vets can watch from home, don't have to talk. Can just watch and listen. "Having to go through all these backroads... We get it done, but it's not ideal."

> Technology - People are scrolling through, might see it (the event listing). 

* Does a relationship between a client and outreach specialist evolve or change over time?
> Xxx

**Clients**
* Can you describe the different types of clients that you work with?
> 60% are Vietnam vets. That's the demographic here in Western MA. Breakdown of that: some are engaged in evidence-based treatment, but more often than not, they don't tend to go towards the regimented treatment. They engage with other Vets. We have 8-10 Vietnam vet groups. A Persian Gulf group. (Think he also said Afghanistan.)

> Also have a spouse group. Often it's the older Vietnam vet wives. 

How do groups form? 

> Main approach is based on what clinicians do we have at a VC? Determine their interests. One of ours is a trained classical guitarist. Our group is "Guitars for Vets." 

> For over 90% of the Vets who walk into our VC, we have a good email address for them. 

> Vietnam vets - not as many have email.

> Have newsletters, moving bulleting board. Kayaking, equine therapy, evidence-based group, anger management, substance abuse. 

> Coloring group now with 1 of our interns. Adult coloring books. 

> Once we get them plugged in, we let them know what is. 

> Evidence-based: VA has blocks of what this means: EMDR, ACT (Acceptance and Conmmitment Therapy), PTSD, Cognitive Processing Therapy. Prolonged exposure is 12 (?) weeks, very regimented. Deemed evidence-based offically. 

LH - Large Vietnam vet population in Western MA... What others? 
> Vietnam vets, Persian Gulf, GWAT are biggest groups. (See GWAT below.)

> We have gone out of our way to find underserved populations. Like women. There is not a large group of women Vets being served by VA. Ours is one of the biggest. 

> GWAT - Global War on Terror - this is a good sized population. 

> Military sexual trauma. 

> Courage group. VA does one, too. 

> Drone crews and emergent medical care are small groups. Also mortuary affairs. 

> There are vets with dual roles. 

> Persian Gulf group very small. 

> Maybe 1-2 Korean War vets. Maybe a couple WWII vets. 

* If you had to break down the types into percentages that you work with, what might that look like?
> Xxx

* Where in the journey are your clients? (e.g. newly separated, families during bereavement, family In crisis mode)
> Xxx

* If you had to breakdown these stages in the journey that your clients fall into, what might that look like?
> Xxx

**Services**
* What services do you personally support most frequently?
> "That's tough. Support as in the most valuable svc we would offer?"

> "Individual counseling. Without a doubt, that's going to be the most used service we have."

> Least used svc: Employment referral. We don't have an employment rep. We have a voc rehab rep. We let her utilize our space, which is great. 

> I refer people to employment agencies or groups that help with employment. 

> Bereavement. That is not necessarily combat related. It's more often suicide. Struggle with this because our eligibility criteria say we give service if it's while the vet is serving. For vets not active, when family needs support: "To me, it's an absolute no brainer that that vet is eligible." We run it up to management. We want to provide service. 

> We do humanitarian visits, but we do not promote that. If community knew, we would be very busy. Our clinician wd be booked; we would have to hire more. Up to 5 humanitarian visits for that vet or service member, and during that time we hope to provide them with a referral. For this it, would be a vet not necessarily meeting eligibility criteria; they are struggling in a home. They are not in a crises. My old director used to say: "We are not crisis response. It took me a long time to understand that." 

We have walk-in hours, too. Humanitarian services -- you will not get into evidence based treatments, you are asssessing risk, trying to calm the vet and pass them on to appropriate service. Usually does not go too deep. It's tricky. I leave it up to the clinicans to decide that. 

* What services do you personally support least frequently?
> Xxx

* Are some services more automated vs needing to be more hands-on?
> Xxx

* What’s are some challenging aspects of supporting these services?
> Xxx

* How will Vets find out about these services?
> Xxx

**Events**
* What are some examples of events or recreational activities that you’ve put on or promoted (pre and post COVID)?
> Xxx

* Who initiates the events?
> Xxx

* Can you walk me through what it looks like to put on an event?
> Xxx

* Are they Vet Center specific?
> Xxx

* Are there recurring events that Vet Centers offer?
> Xxx

**Tools**
* What tools, websites or resources do you use to plan and publicize outreach events?
> Xxx

* How do these help you do your job?
> Xxx

* Do you use or keep mailing lists, listservs, social media?
> Xxx

* Partnership organizations, e.g. universities, print media?
> Xxx

* From a technology perspective, what could be improved to help you in your outreach?
> Xxx

### Closing
* Any questions for us?
> I think I am really on the learning curve. I understand overall what our program has to offer. When it comes to web design, I am interested in how it will all work out. 

* Was there anything that I didn’t ask that you think that I should know?
> Xxx

*If time permits… but most likely a separate session*

### Vet Center Page Critique
[CRITIQUE OF CURRENT DETAIL PAGE – 15 MIN]

[Current Vet Center page example](https://www.va.gov/find-locations/facility/vc_0342V) 

This is what a Vet Center page looks like today, in an ideal world, what would the page look like if it was first exposure that a Veteran or service member had to your Vet Center, maybe after they did a google search.

* What would be the most important thing(s) that they should be able to learn or understand.
> Xxx

* What could be improved about [this] website to improve your needs as an outreach specialist?
> Xxx

* Thinking of all those first conversations with new and potential clients, what would they change?
> Xxx

[SWITCH TO EVENT PAGE]

[Event page example](https://www.va.gov/outreach-and-events/events/sierra-vista-arizona-resource-fair/) 

* What about a page like this? How does a page like this fit into your workflow?
> Xxx

