## Both VA Form 21-0781 and VA Form 21-0781a ##

* PRIORITY: As a Veteran completing the 0781 or 0781a interview on va.gov, I want to be able to loop through and enter an unlimited number of events using the interview format that is currently being used for the first three events a Veteran enters so that I can continue using the same process for all events.

* PRIORITY: As a Veteran completing the 0781 interview on va.gov, I want to be able to loop through and enter an unlimited number of people involved in the stressful event so that I can include all people using the same, interview format.

* As a Veteran completing the 0781 or 0781a interview on va.gov, I want to be able to enter multiple events that occurred during a single assignment so that there is no need to enter identical assignment details multiple times.
 

## VA Form 21-0781 ##

* PRIORITY: As a Veteran completing the 0781 or 0781a interview on va.gov, I want to be able to see the Metals question later in the interview process so that I am not reminded of survivor's guilt at the beginning of the process. (Unless the goal is for the VA to obtain the information early, in case I'm triggered by something else in the process.)

* PRIORITY: As a Veteran completing the 0781 or 0781A interview on va.gov, I want overlap between the Non-combat definition and the Personal Assault definition to be eliminated and I want the Combat definition to include indirect fire so that I can easily determine which type of PTSD is applicable in my situation.

* PRIORITY: As a Veteran completing the 0781 interview on va.gov, I want the ability to upload documents during the interview process so that I can provide supporting evidence.

* As a Veteran completing the 0781 or 0781a interview on va.gov, I want to be able to see a bulleted list of topics areas to cover on the Additional Events page, so that I quickly understand the purpose of the page and can provide a comprehensive account of the event:
  * Event Date
  * Your Assignment
  * Medals or Citations
  * Location
  * People Involved
  * Event Description

If the work-around will be in production for an extended period of time, this enhancement should be a priority.

* LONG-TERM: As a Veteran completing the 0781 interview on va.gov, I want vets.gov to link to the medals database so that the need for me to enter medals manually is eliminated.


## VA Form 21-0781a ##

* As a UX researcher, conducting testing on VA Form 21-0781A, I would like to understand how users interact with the behavior change pages on VA Form 0781A so that I'm aware of whether design modifications would be helpful.  The goal is to allow users to easily share information.  As memory issues are inherent in PTSD, one's recollection of events may unfold over time.  One memory may bring others to the forefront. Determine whether changes to the pages would facilitate the process of providing this information. Through analytics, we can track the specific items selected in aggregate and we can track whether or not users progress linearly through the pages.
