# Call Center Focus Group
## Attendees
Sophia Philips
Dawn Munoz
Carolyn Williams

Beth Ackbar
Wendy Haines
Kelsi Hampton
Chante Lantos-swett
Akeem Caldwell
Kelly Strzepek
Darren Teta
Brenda Torres-Hill
Jenny Watson


## Purpose of call: Review support guide document 

USiP Site Impact table
Chante: VA Health and Benefit App is the same as VA flagship mobile app. HRC Help Desk is POC for OCC mobile apps. We want both contacts. Brenda will share

Carnetta in chat: MHV is the same as My HealtheVet. Perhaps MHV should be MHV VSignals then Kophie is the POC

Carnetta: Why does it say VA.gov, when it includes all of VA apps? It’s more than the VA website, it’s coming to VA online tools. We need to be inclusive by saying “coming to VA”

Dawn: Phased approach that starts with VA.gov. First the sign in page will only change on VA.gov before it rolls out to other USiP. Given the phased rollout, how much do we want to say Va.gov versus USiP?

Carnetta: Technically, whatever the sign in changes the other portals will be updated with the updated sign in page

Dawn: Have done research that we can restrict the USiP use. 

Carnetta: If this document only focuses only VA.gov, then this question “why sign in changes” applies to all of VA. 

Dawn: Update general language in the document to be more holistic of the changes coming.

Sophia: Would it help to speak to this phased approach. A high level explanation of how we are controlling the views of that sign in page

Carnetta: Absolutely! They need to know where the changes are, because the first question they will ask the Veteran what application they are signing in on. Need to know which app changes when

Carnetta: Include hyperlink to Executive Orders. MHV docs include hyperlinks so the CSR can read for themselves

## Rerouting through ID.me
Dawn: Include a screenshot.

Carnetta: Want to hear from Help Desk and if this is enough of a description

Kelsi: Make sure this info is available and written in a way that addresses the concerns right away, made it easier to talk it out with Veterans. The language is clear and helpful here in blue text. 

Carnetta: The However sentence includes Login.gov, and it’s just thrown in there. Here the ID.me is the multi factor, not an account.

Sophia: Identify how to speak to ID.me and the conflicts coming up with Veterans. 

## Communication Campaign Schedule:
Sophia: Would you like the schedule continuously updated incrementally or have one schedule even if not final?

Dawn: this won’t be updated weekly. Every month send out updates on mode of communication with date and the audience that will receive 

Carnetta: a projection is helpful for help desk. 

Kelsi in chat agrees

Beth: Also agrees. Better to be proactive. 

Carnetta: Having the apps that will be affected, include those as well. So they can see what will be addressed in time. 

## Include full hyperlink:
Dawn: how do reps look at this content, on screen or paper?

Darren: This is viewed online. 

## ID.me specifics
ID.me if they don’t have a US social security number, use ID.me
