Notetaker Doc for:\
Facility Locator, Operating Status\
(Moderated Card Sort) 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

##### Date: 06/10/20\
P3, June 10, 2020 2 p.m. EST


Setup
-----

-   Notifications off

-   Links to VA Locator: <https://www.va.gov/find-locations/>

-   Links to card sort: <https://adhoc.optimalworkshop.com/optimalsort/docaar20>

Intro - 3 minutes
-----------------

##### [Start recording]

Warm-up Questions - 10 minutes
------------------------------

MODERATOR: Can you tell me a little about your service history?

Entered 1983, from there did basic in my AIT, fort knox. M1 tank systems mechanic. After that, sent TDY to aberdeen proving grounds to work on m1A1 tanks. Serviced 38 mos, armored division in Germany. 

MODERATOR: Have you visited a VA location recently?

yes

MODERATOR: What reasons do you visit VA locations?

While active duty, ripped all the ligaments out of my right leg.

1st Task: [REVIEW LOCATION FINDER] - 15 minutes
-----------------------------------------------

##### [SHARE LINK - ASK TO SHARE SCREEN] <https://www.va.gov/find-locations/>

For our first exercise, I'd like us to look at VA.gov together, so that I can point out the area that we'll be talking about. I'm going to share the link and ask you to share your screen so that I can follow along. I have a few questions before we begin:

##### [QUESTIONS]

MODERATOR: Are you familiar with VA.gov?

yes, 

MODERATOR: Recent reason to be using it?

No, I did it when I was first looking that were close to my home. It worked very good. Didn't know there was one in my town and where exactly it was.

##### [TASK - LOOK UP FACILITY AT ZIP CODE]

MODERATOR: What do you think was going on here [results contain a 'Facility Closed' status]?

Telling me which is closest one to where. I see A is closed which would really help me out, if I was going to go to that one. So I could pick another one. 

MODERATOR: Can you think of a time when the information on a facility was unhelpful or inaccurate and affected your visit?

No, never had a problem.

2nd Task: [DEFINE CURRENT STATUSES] - 5 minutes
-----------------------------------------------

##### [Shares OptimalSort link] <https://adhoc.optimalworkshop.com/optimalsort/docaar20>

- Facility Closed - 

With what's going on with the pandemic I would think it's closed because they are restricting people to certain VA centers. If not because of pandemic, I would think the government ran out of money and needed to shut that one down. Closed indefinitely.. Not stating hours if open or not so would think its  closed indefinitely

- Facility notice  - 

Facility no longer going to be in the VA. Meaning that the facility is shut down permanently and no longer going to be associated with the VA

- Limited services - Means its only going to be open certain hours of the day on certain days of the week. And with limited services, it states it might not have the podiatrist or the eye doctor or the groups or the doctor or things like that...

3rd Task: [MULTIPLE CHOICE - CHOOSE A STATUS] - 5 minutes
---------------------------------------------------------

##### [Multiple choice activity]

Limited services. The reason I would say, its offering is limited because is says its temporarily suspended face to face visits but it tells me they are still going to be open and then it tells me that one of the services is telehealth services by appointment, are still going to be open.

4th Task: [CARD SORT 2 - OPEN SORT OF SCENARIOS] - 10 minutes
-------------------------------------------------------------

##### [Card Sort]

Weather related issues

Appointment schedules

Facility information - [things] you can deal with, eg, social unrest, you can go around and enter this road, same with construction going on. Signs will be posted to tell you.

Important information regarding facility and appointments -the last column is information that you would need on the day of your appointment to inform you of real specifics - what you need or what's going on. This is more specific about when you're going in the facility.

##### Are these messages that I'm going to get on my phone? that's telling me... Oh geez, I think I'm confusing myself.

"If I looked up my facility and I've seen this stuff and yes I would read this stuff and its ok but people are only going to look up that facility finder one time for where they're at or if they're travelling for whatever area that they're in, then they're going to know.

But to me, a lot of this stuff, this information that their giving is something that they would text you on your phone to say that this is what's happening, this is in regards to the weather, this is regards to your appointment, ...facility information.

[Moderator: how would you subscribe to that]

#####\
[Things to watch for: What language is unclear or confusing?]

Post-Task Interview - 2 minutes
-------------------------------

Those are all the questions and exercises that I had today.

-   Do you have any questions for me?

They need to have more sign posts in the lobby directing people for information because when I first wanted into the heins hospital where I do treatment or J bock when I do my regular doctor ... I don't know where to stand or where to go. (not been since Covid). Have a regular facility, tests at another place (hospital) 25 miles away.

-   Do you ever look up hours for the hospital for your MRIs?

I figured when they scheduled my appt that those were the hours that that was the hours that they had.

Thank-You and Closing
---------------------
