# Facility Locator, Operating Status

**June 2020  Discovery**<br>

**P4, June 11, 2020 11 a.m. EST**<br>


## Intro - 3 minutes

**Moderator:** Thanks for joining us today! My name is Leyda and I also have some colleagues on the line observing and taking notes. Today we're going to talk about finding locations on the VA.gov website and the information you see on those location pages. 

**Participant:** Okay 

**Moderator:** Before we start, a few things I want to mention:

- **This entire session should take about 45 minutes.** 
- **First, I'll ask you a few warm up questions to get us started.
- **Then, I'll ask you to share your screen.** This will allow us to follow along with you. I'll send you a link and we'll look at the location finder together and I'll ask you a few questions about it.
- **You'll be participating in four exercises.** I will send you a link to a different website for that. 
- **In this session, we want to hear your honest opinions.** We are not testing you, instead we are testing the website to better meet Veteran's needs. I will not be offended by any opinions you express, and I welcome your feedback.

**Participant:** Okay

- **Are you comfortable if I record my screen and audio as we talk today?** We use the recordings to confirm that we have captured your opinions accurately. The recordings are destroyed after we complete analysis, and none of your comments will be attributed to you directly. 

**Participant:** Yes, that is fine. 

[Start recording]

- **I have started recording. I'd like to confirm: audio as we talk today?" 

**Participant:** Yes 

**Moderator:** Okay, thank you. 


## Warm-up Questions - 5 minutes

**Moderator:** Alright, so I would like to just start with just a few questions just to get us started this morning. Maybe you can you tell me a little about your service history? If you are a Veteran. 

**Participant:** Okay, I served 15 years in the US Army, umm,  as an officer. My highest rank was captain. And at that point I left the service. I have been a reservist the whole time, my whole time serving. 

**Moderator:** Okay, great. Thank you for sharing that. Have you visited a VA location recently? 

**Participant:** Yes, I usually go to the DC VA and I’ve recently been to, the last time I went to the VA it was in March to pick up some medication. 

**Moderator:** Okay, to pick up medication. Are there any other reasons you might go visit a VA location?

**Participant:** Yes, for my VA appointments. So, I have an appointment at the end of this month 

**Moderator:** Okay, great. Well, we are going to move into a few exercises. We will do four of them. This first one, I am going to share my screen and we are going to review what we are going to be taking about today so give me one second and I will pull up what we will be taking about. 

## First Task: [REVIEW LOCATION FINDER] - 15 minutes

**Moderator:** Alright, are you able to see my screen? 

**Participant:** Yes

*Moderator:** Okay, great. Today we are looking at this part of the VA.gov website. It’s the VA location finder. Are you familiar with this?

**Participant:** Ummmm, no. I don’t think I ever used that. 
 
**Moderator:**  Okay. How do you currently get information on location and hours and that sort of thing for your VA locations? 

**Participant:** Well, I only use one VA. I use the DC VA. Before that I was using the one in Brooklyn, near Fort Hamilton. So, I pretty much knew the hours. I think I was going to the  actual VA website to find it. For example, if I was going to Fort Hamilton VA, I would type in Fort Hamilton VA, and pull it up that way rather than go to this website. 

**Moderator:** Gotcha, so you already knew of the VA location?

**Participant:** Yes. 

**Moderator:** So you wouldn’t need to. Okay, well I am just going to give you an imaginary scenario to think about. Perhaps, maybe you are traveling and you know you may need to visit a VA location. So, we will just imagine that.  I’m going to kind of walk through the steps and as we go through you know you are going to be visiting a particular area with a zipcode [01904] I am going to just put in the search. When you do the search you get some locations nearby. What we are taking about today is, sort of, this area here the information where you get to find out what the hours and services are for each location. So, at this step, just kind of tell me what you can gather about the location at zipcode 01904. 

**Participant:** Ummm, well the closest VA to that location is closed, probably due to Covid. So, then I would have to drive 8 miles away to the Causeway clinic in Boston. 

**Moderator:** Okay, yeah. We are going to go into this a little bit further. Just this one clinic. And when you get to this page, it’s a little more detailed information, and this area here. Probrally to your point, the reasons why a facility might be closed. 

I am going to move us on to a few questions I have for you. So, imagine you are traveling and you were wanting to know about a facility. What information do you need while preparing to visit a facility? What’s important to you? 

**Participant:**  The hours of operation and address and the phone number

**Moderator:** Okay, and I know sense you haven't had the need to do this but...Have you ever had a moment when you weren;’t able to find that information for yourself in the two locations you do frequent? 

**Participant:**  No, I haven’t. 

**Moderator:** Let’s imagine. On this page, what would make you trust that the information on this site is accurate? 

**Participant:** Because it’s on the official VA.gov site so I would assume that it’s accurate. The most accurate vs. a Google search. 

## Second Task: [DEFINE CURRENT STATUSES]  - 5 minutes

**Moderator:** Okay, well, I am going to move us on to another test that we are going to do together. Ummm, I am going to pull that up right now. Alright, so, we have been talking about this area of the VA.gov website. When we don’t operate under normal hours and services we display one of three possible statuses here in this spot. We are going to go through those statuses and I kind of want to get your thoughts on what they mean. 

**Participant:** Okay 

**Moderator:** The first one we’ve seen. How would you define this? In terms of hours and services. 

**Participant:** Nobody is in the building. But there is probably a phone number you can call for additional information 

**Moderator:** Okay, great. How about this one? How would you interpret this in terms of hours and services? 

**Participant:** I would interpret that as limited hours, limited services, or temporarily closed due to an emergency, or cleaning, or changes to their normal activity 

**Moderator:** And you mentioned cleaning possibly? 

**Participant:** Possibly or, ummm, construction 

**Moderator:** Any other thoughts on this one? 

**Participant:**  No

**Moderator:**  Okay. And the final one. What would this one tell you? 

**Participant:** Limited service, I would probably think, ummmm, like emergency services only, most of the offices are not open.  

**Moderator:** How would you differ this status from the previous status? If at all...

**Participant:** That one just has an “i” for information, the other has, like, a warning sign, like a triangle around the “i” so…

**Moderator:** So what does that tell you? 

**Participant:** The yellow one just seems more important.

**Moderator:** Is it fair to say that yellow if more important than the “i” in the blue? 

**Participant:** Yes. Blue is kind of like you still have a go, where as yellow is like slow down. 

**Moderator:** Any other thoughts on these before we move on? 

**Participant:** No. 

## Third Task: [MULTIPLE CHOICE - CHOOSE A STATUS]  - 5 minutes
 
[Multiple choice activity]

**Moderator:** This little blurb of text here is kind of typical explanation that you might see with some of those statuses. I would like you to take a minute and read it and tell me if any of the statuses make sense to accompany it. Which one might fit the best? 

**Participant:** Let’s say facility notice because “limited services” would mean that somebody is able to go into the building but no one is going in so…

**Moderator:**  I see. So, because you can’t go into the building you would consider this not limited service. 

**Participant:** No, it’s not limited service. Because you can still receive service, you just can’t go into the building to receive it so that is a facility issue. 

**Moderator:**  Gotcha. Okay. That makes sense. 

## Fourth Task: [CARD SORT 2 - OPEN SORT OF SCENARIOS] - 10 minutes

[Card Sort]

**Moderator:** We are going to move on to our fourth exercise. This is a bit of a sorting activity. What I want you to do is kind of think about what we were looking at in terms of different ways you can interpret information on a location page. These are some scenarios on the left and they are all different scenarios. And if you read each one, I would like you to categorie it in what makes sense to you. What I will do is move it to the right side and we can put in catagogize. Or a number of categories. 

**Participant:** How many groups am I making? 


**Moderator:** However many make sense to you? There are no right or wrong answers here. It’s really more how you think they kind of relate to each other. So, if you need one group, two, three, four different groups that’s fine. It doesn’t matter. 

**Participant:** Okay, so do I move them myself? 

**Moderator:** I’ll move them for you. 

**Participant:** Okay, so you are going to move the first one to the right? 

**Moderator:** Yeah, so we will start with the first category right there

**Participant:** Okay...ummm, I want to put that in a different category. I’ll put that in the first one.  I will put that in a different category. 

**Moderator:** A third category? 

**Participant:** Yes... I will put that in the first category. I will put that in the first category. I will put that in the first category. I will put that in the first category. Actually, can I create a fourth category? 

**Moderator:** Sure. For this last one? 

**Participant:** For that one and the second one I put in there. 

**Moderator:** This one goes in the second? 

**Participant:**  No, that one there and the first category, that second one, “facilities is open” move that over there 

**Moderator:** To the forth or the second? 

**Participant:**  To the fourth. 

**Moderator:** And was this one in the right spot? 

**Participant:**  Yes.  Put that in the first category. Put that in the first category. Put that in the fourth category. I’ll put that in the first category. I’ll put that in the fourth category.  I’ll put that in the fourth category. 


**Moderator:** Does this make sense to you? Anything you would like me to move? 

**Participant:**  Ummm, yeah. The third category just move that to the first. And, ummm, the second category move that to the right. The mask…

**Moderator:** Oh, right. Move that to the fourth? 

**Participant:** Yes. 

**Moderator:** How would you name these categories? 

**Participant:** The first would be, ummm, Emergency and construction operations. 

**Moderator:** Does that look right? 

**Participant:** Yes, and the second one, ummm, facility updates. 

**Moderator:** If you can think back to the website. Would these be the status titles you would use for those categories? 

**Participant:** Umm, yes. 

**Moderator:** Okay. So, if you got to the website and saw that a facility was, or you saw facility updates, facilities is open but urged to reschedule, that would make sense to you? 

**Participant:** Yes. 

**Moderator:** Any other thoughts on these, or other situations you would want to know about? 

**Participant:** No. 

**Moderator:** Are these situations, for example, either of these “facility updates” or “emergency and construction operations”, is there any other way that you want to find out this information? Or how would you want to be information of these types of updates??

**Participant:** Maybe if you have an appointment that day, a text is sent to your phone? To give you the status of the facility. For example,  say, you have an appointment and mask are required, they can send a quick text, maybe the day before your appointment, so you know to take your mask with you. 

**Moderator:** So, would you find it helpful to you for both types of notifications? Facility updates and emergency  construction operations? 

**Participant:** Yes, because if you drive two hours to a VA and there is a chemical spill and they are only taking emergencies, but you have an appointment, that’s along distance to drive only to find out that your appointment has been canceled. 

**Moderator:**  Sure. That makes sense. Has that ever happened to you? Have you ever gotten to a facility and something came up where you weren’t able to have your appointment? 

**Participant:**  Not with the VA but other medical appointments. 

**Moderator:** Sure. Okay. Those are the questions I had. ANything you would change or edit at this point? 

**Participant:** No. 

**Moderator:** Call this activity finished. 

## Post-Task Interview - 5 minutes

**Moderator:** Do you have any questions for me? 

**Participant:** No. Not at this time. 

## Thank-You and Closing - 2 minutes

**Moderator:**  Alright. Marie, that was very helpful to us. We are going to use your information to make the website better. Thank you so much for your candid feedback and your thoughts today. 

**Participant:** You are welcome. 

**Moderator:** Have a good day. 

**Participant:** You too. 
