# Facility Locator, Operating Status

** June 2020  Discovery**<br>

**P7, June 11, 2020 3 p.m EST 


## Intro - 3 minutes


**Moderator:** Thanks for joining us today! My name is Leyda and I also have some colleagues on the line observing and taking notes. Today we're going to talk about finding locations on the VA.gov website and the information you see on those location pages.  Does that sound good to you? 

**Participant:** Yes, thank you 

Before we start, a few things I want to mention:

- **This entire session should take about 45 minutes.** 
- **First, I'll ask you a few warm up questions to get us started.
- **Then, I'll ask you to share your screen.** This will allow us to follow along with you. I'll send you a link and we'll look at the location finder together and I'll ask you a few questions about it.
- **You'll be participating in four exercises.** I will send you a link to a different website for that. 
- **In this session, we want to hear your honest opinions.** We are not testing you, instead we are testing the website to better meet Veteran's needs. I will not be offended by any opinions you express, and I welcome your feedback.

**Participant:** Okay

- **Are you comfortable if I record my screen and audio as we talk today?** We use the recordings to confirm that we have captured your opinions accurately. The recordings are destroyed after we complete analysis, and none of your comments will be attributed to you directly. 

**Participant:** Yes, that’s fine. 

[Start recording]

**Moderator:** I have started recording. I'd like to confirm: audio as we talk today?" 

**Participant:** Yes, I am. 

**Moderator:** Alright, great. Thanks.  

## Warm-up Questions - 5 minutes

**Moderator:** Thanks again for joining us. We are going to get started with a few questions. I thought maybe you can just give me a brief, umm, understanding of your service history? Are you a Veteran? 

**Participant:** Ummm, no I am not. My mother is. 

**Moderator:** Oh, okay! And are you a caretaker for her? Or what’s that relationship? 

**Participant:** What was that? 

**Moderator:** Ummm, are you a caretaker for her? 

**Participant:** Umm, no I am not.  I am using VA education benefits through her service. 

**Moderator:** I see, I see. Okay, ummm, do you accompany your mother at any point with visiting VA locations? 

**Participant:** Umm, I have before but I don’t regularly. 

**Moderator:**  Okay, gotcha. And can you tell me about the last time you did? 

**Participant:** Umm, it was fairly brief. I was down in Anchorage for an appointment. She was down in Anchorage for an appointment. Mine was a separate place. But she went to the VA hospital for her, umm, I believe it was the determination of, like, she had just gotten out so it was like her determination of her benefits. Otr disability rating or something along those lines. Umm, from my experience it was quite pleasant. They were very warm and welcoming. But I didn’t have a whole lot of contact with people. It was mostly about her. 

**Moderator:** Okay, gotchas. Alright, we are going to switch gears a bit and I am going to be sharing my screen? Give me one sec. Alright, are you seeing my screen? 

**Participant:** Umm, not yet. I am seeing a black screen right now. 

**technical issues sharing screen via Zoom** 


**Participant:** Oh, wait, I am actually seeing your screen! 

**Moderator:** Ooh, wonderful. Okay, good. Great. 


## First Task: [REVIEW LOCATION FINDER] - 15 minutes

**Moderator:** Give you a bit of background of what we are actually going to be talking about. When you go on VA.gov. There is this feature. I am not sure how familiar you are with “find a VA location”. Have you ever seen that before? 

**Participant:** I am to some degree. 

**Moderator:** You are familiar with…

**Participant:** I have used it before, yes. I have used it before. 

**Moderator:**  Okay, great. Can you tell me a little bit about that? 

**Participant:** Umm, it was actually for educational counselling services, and so, I am from Alaska but I go to school in Wisconsin, so I wasn’t really familiar with anything around there. So, I was actually using to try to find the nearest VA service in that area. 

**Moderator:**  Okay, okay. So, you went in here and you did a search perhaps?

**Participant:** yes, I did. 

**Moderator:**  Can you walk me through that? 

**Participant:** Yeah, so I believe I, so it was in Milwaukee so I typed in Milwaukee, Wisconsin. VA benefits. And then, umm, I believe, where was it. Educational and career counseling, is what I believe I chose, after VA benefits.  

**Moderator:** Okay. Well, thank you. That is helpful to just understand, sort of, what you searched in the past. So, what we are taking about today, you know, once you, umm, put in your location. Put in what you are actually looking for. We are looking at the information that pops up here. So, imagine you got a result that looks like this. So, specifically here, you’ll see a little bit of information calling out hours and services, umm, that’s what we are trying to get at today. If you were to do the search you just mentioned, and you saw this come up, how would you interrupt that? 

**Participant:** The limited services and hours portion? 


**Moderator:**  mmhmm

**Participant:** I would take that as, I mean, I would actually do more further information. So, I would attempt to click on it and see what services they mean by what’s limited and hours as well. I know when I was doing it it was when the whole COVID 19 thing was going on, so some of them were updated for that but some of them didn’t seem to be, so it might be something along those lines. 

**Moderator:**  Okay. So, going back to when you were doing your search. What was important for you? When you were preparing to visit that facility? 

**Participant:** I was trying to find something that was nearby, that I didn’t have to drive very far for, umm, and also you know, because I was in school, I wanted something that had hours that fit for what I need. So, something that’s open beyond necessarily, because I know some of them seemed to be closing early on me, so that was something I was looking at. So, proximity to me and hours open. And I guess also the service I was looking for was important. 

**Moderator:** Okay, okay. Can you give a time when you did a search like that and you didn’t find information that answered those questions for you? 

**Participant:** Well, I know that one of the facilities that I reached out to didn’t have the services that website was saying. At least, what I was interpreting the services the website to be saying. They said, that they, you know, didn’t have the service the website was saying that they had. 

**Moderator:** Oh, I see. 

**Participant:** After I called them to just kind of confirm before going. 

**Moderator:** Okay. Alright, I am going to dig into a random facility here. So, imagine that it happened, are you talking about maybe on this page? Whatever services you expected to see didn’t match what you were able to get? 

**Participant:** Yes, yes. That is true. 

 **Moderator:** Okay, got it.  Okay, what would make you trust the information? Obviously, there was a mismatch for you. So, how would you go about...or what could we do better to help make you feel like the information on the website was something you can trust? 

**Participant:** I think something that kind of just shows you that the information is up to date. Because when I look at it, I don’t see anything that, you know, necessarily says that it’s up to date and I know service and hours change for various reasons so something that kind of just, I know, some other websites that I have seen kind of let you know that this is up to date information as of whatever date and so something like that would be beneficial. 

 **Moderator:** Gotcha,  gotcha. Like a timestamp. Something like that. 

**Participant:** Yeah, just kind of, make sure things are keeping up to date on the website and I can kind of see, Oh, it hasn’t been updated in a year so it might not be as accurate vs. being updated yesterday so it should be accurate. 

 **Moderator:** mmhmm, I see. Gotcha. Okay, we are going to move onto a second task

## Second Task: [DEFINE CURRENT STATUSES]  - 5 minutes

**Moderator:** I am going to open that up now. Are you still seeing my screen? 

**Participant:** Yes, I am. 

**Moderator:** Okay, we did just talk about these different types of statuses. And information on the facilities when a location is not operating under normal hours and services. We display one of three possible statuses. So, this is an example right here. On the next few screens we are going to dig into a little bit about those statuses. And we started to talk about them and so I am just going to so some of this might seem repetitive but it’s hgelpful for us to hear in your words. 

**Participant:**  Okay. 

**Moderator:** So, for this first one, for example. What would that say to you? If you saw that on a facility you wanted to visit? 

**Participant:** I would take that as, there are no open hours and all services currently suspended. 

**Moderator:**  There are no open hours and all services currently suspended. 

**Participant:** Yep. 

**Moderator:**  Has that ever happened to you? 

**Participant:** I haven’t actually run into that specific one. But when I have seen it, that’s kind of what I just assume. That it just means it’s closed and I am going to be able to use the services they are offering at that time. 

**Moderator:** And when you say open hours, you mean?? 

**Participant:**  Like, open as being able to go there in person and walk in the building and get help or whatever. 

**Moderator:** I am going to show you the next one. How would you interpret this? 

**Participant:** I would interpret this as being thtat there are probably further information that I need to know. That something has changed the last time you’ve used it. So either hours have changed or something shut down, or something along those lines, is something you have have to pay attention to before you assume everything is the same as last time you were there. 

**Moderator:** Besides for my typing, did I get that just about right? That there is further info, that something has changed from last time I used it, something shut down, maybe something changed from last time I was there. Did I mis anything? 

**Participant:** Nope. I think that is it. 

**Moderator:**  And does this wording make sense to you? Is there a way it can be clearer to you? 

**Participant:** I don’t think so...At least the way I interpret it, and I don’t know if it was meant to be interpreted this way, there is something more to be said about this facility. I mean, click on it or whatever because when it pulls up, it would just come up with that message and you click on it for more information. 

**Moderator:**  Gotcha. Okay. And this is the last status that we have. How would you interrupt this one? 

**Participant:** I would take that as, if its, let’s say its a VA hospital or something like that, it may not have the same services as a fully operational one and for whatever reason at that  current time. There’s limited services. So, it’s different services then what you are used to...

**Moderator:** And how would differentiate between this one and the the last one. Which is this one. 

**Participant:** I would say that that the limited services is kind of more specific of, you know, I mean, facility notice could be something as hours have changed or it could be something like with coronavirus, you are required to wear a mask when you come in there, or social distancing, limited services is very clear of, you know, we have limited services opposed to what we used to have. It’s more of a specific type of thing rather than facility notice which is more generalized and mean lot of different things. And you have to kind of click for more information. 


**Moderator:** Gotcha. Any other thoughts? 
**Participant:** I don’t believe so. 


## Third Task: [MULTIPLE CHOICE - CHOOSE A STATUS]  - 5 minutes
 
[Multiple choice activity]

**Moderator:**   I am going to give you a scenario here. This blurb. And if you were to see this, when you did a search on a facility, how would you interpret this? Which status would you thik fits it best? 

**Participant:** I would say facility notice. 

**Moderator:** Okay. And why is that? 

 **Participant:**  Just like I was saying earlier, it’s not specific of limited services per say but it’s, you know, something else. Like, we are not doing face to face visits. We have to do something differently than normal. And our hours might be different so there is a notice to learn something more. 

**Moderator:** Gotcha. So, because it wasn’t as specific and you have to dig in a little bit more perhaps. Tell me a little bit about what you get out of telehealth services? What does that mean to you?  

**Participant:**  I take that as like something we are doing right now. Zoom call, or Teams, or something where you are using computers of some sort to speak with your provider. Instead of going into your provider. Won’t be providing you a physical checkup but you will still be talking about what is going on with you. 

**Moderator:**  Gotcha. And do you see any difference between telehealth services and virtual services? 

**Participant:** I guess telehealth is definitely going to be health related and virtual services can be anything. So, it’s kind of like, teleservices are virtual services but not all virtual services are going to be telehealth or even health related. 

**Moderator:** Gotcha. 


## Fourth Task: [CARD SORT 2 - OPEN SORT OF SCENARIOS] - 10 minutes

[Card Sort]

**Moderator:** Moving on our fourth and final exercise. So, we just went over three statuses. That you could see on facilities. Facility closed. Facility notice. Limited services. Now I want you think about some of the events come up that cause some of these notices to appear on websites. So, on this left side there’s just different scenarios in each of these boxes. So, the exercise here is, and I will drive for you, to move one of these over to create a category. And all these can be categories in whatever way makes sense to you. 

**Participant:** Okay 

**Moderator:** I just made the first category.  That is, A mask is required to enter the facility. 

**Participant:** I would say...For that one, I would name that as a facility notice. That first one there. That second I would put in the category of limited services. I would put that one in facility notice as well. That one in facility notice as well. Actually, I want to make a new category for health notice. And move, A mask is required to enter the facility In that one. Next one I would say is a facility notice. That next one is health notice. That one I would say facility is closed. The next one I would also say facility is closed. That one I would say facility notice. Health notice for that one. Facility notice. I  would as facility notice again actually. Facility notice once again. That looks good. 

**Moderator:**  Yeah, yeah. Anything you want me to move around? 

**Participant:** I don’t think so but thank you. 

**Moderator:** Tell me a little bit about how you went about making these categories. 

**Participant:** I liked the three main categories we had earlier. The reason I brought up the health notice was because I felt like they were, there’s a little bit of a difference, if you are going for health services, you might want something to differentiate...Oh, it’s a health risk, a health situation going on, vs something going on at the facility. In terms of putting them in those categories, I just read through it,  and the first thing of what came to mind of what category it should go in I went. 

**Moderator:** Mhmm, gotcha. So, these being more health related. How about limited services?  

**Participant:** That one was, that specific one, was limited services because it wasn’t any specific reason. It wasn’t a health reason or anything like that. But it wasn’t completely closed either. I mean, it was closed off to patience but employees are still going so I didn’t feel like facility closed but people might still be there to answer the phone. 

**Moderator:** Gotcha. And Facility notice? 

**Participant:** Those just all seemed like an immediate notice, or less immediate notice, needed to be put out, but it doesn’t necessarily mean, you know, it’s a health notice. So, I kind of went with that. 
 
**Moderator:** That makes me think oif a question I wanted to ask you about the timeliness of some of these notifications. Things can happen at last minute. And if you are scheduled for an appointment, would you use the website to check before you went? Would you think to do that? 

**Participant:** I think, that’s probably something I wouldn’t do, well okay. If I already had a pre scheduled appointment then I probably would go check but if there was something going on the news ot the weather was particular bad. I would go to the website to check than. Email is a good way to get in contact with people.  So, if there is a notice. Or any of these kinds of things. If they have a pre existing appointment there...basically sending out a email informing them of the notice or limited service or whatever is going on there. 

**Moderator:** And email would be the best way to get a hold of you?

**Participant:** Yes, personally. I feel that texts can be useful but kind of annoying sometimes. Calls can be interrupting in a way that if you are doing something else you may miss that call and not think to call back. But will email it’s not as immediate as a text but still something I check regularly.  

**Moderator:** Gotcha. If you can put yourself in your mom’s shoes, how would she want to know? 

**Participant:** I think for her either email or text. She checks her email often both for work and just to see what’s going on. But I don’t think she would be as bothered by a text as I would. I will take that back, she is not that good at checking her text. So I would say email is the best. I know a lot of people, text are for personal things, and email can be more professional, health, that kind of stuff. So, I think an email once again would be beneficial. A text might be, oh someone is asking to borrow something...

**Moderator:** Any other thoughts on this topic? 

**Participant:** Nope. 

## Thank-You and Closing - 2 minutes


Well we really appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us today. Have a good rest of your day!

