# Moderated Card Sort - Facility Locator, Operating Status

**P10, June 12, 2020 1pm EST**


## Warm-up Questions

**Moderator:** Can you tell me a little about your service history? Are you a Veteran?

**P:** Yes, I'm a 20 year marine corp veteran, retired now.

**Moderator:** Have you visited a VA location recently? 

**P:** not really. Um, I've actually been calling in trying to visit but I leave messages and I haven't gotten a call back yet so I just go to my private care doctor like a normally do

**M:** Is this a facility you've frequented before?

I use the VA maybe 2x a year. I do my annual physical so they keep me in the system and maybe I'll go one other time. Most of the time I don't use the VA. I use my private doctors that I get through tricare

**M:** You mentioned you might want to visit VA locations (*missed question*)

I'm also 70% disabled, and I also have things going on with those and I don't want to pay co-pays. I'd rather go to the VA and have them give me the medication or whatever instead of paying $30-$40 dollars copay.




## First Task: [REVIEW LOCATION FINDER]

I'd like us to look at the website together, so that I can point out the area that we'll be talking about. I'm going to share a link and ask you to share your screen so that I can follow along. 

[Facilitator shares link and asks participant to share screen]
https://www.va.gov/find-locations/ 

**Moderator:** Are you familiar with VA.gov's location finder?

**P:** I've actually been on it but haven't been on it recently. 

**M:** [missed question] 

**P:** Mostly to do with service disability compensation, I'm the volunteer service rep with the state of [state] and I went on there to look up facilities so I could reach out to them than let them know who I am 

**Moderator:** Were you looking for a specific location?

**P:** I'm here in [city] so I know that pretty well, but I see they've opened up satellite clinic ... I don't go to the big clinic anymore because they opened one here, and I think they've opened up a couple of other smaller ones in other cities. *(Did not get this directly, may need to revisit audio)*

**Moderator:** What info are you looking for?

**P:** most recently I've been looking because I have to put in more information on my claim and I have somethings I need to submit claims for...*[missed this]* eBenefits are there, and I had my medical records sent there so I can look up and see what they have.

[MODERATOR SHARES SCREEN & PULLS UP LOCATION FINDER]
https://www.va.gov/find-locations/ 

**Moderator:** are you familiar with this?

**P:** yes, that's what I've used to find hospitals in my area, and in the state.

**M:** Do you use this for hours and closures, that sort of info as well?

**P**: I just accepted this position so I will be using it for that. I'll send hours out *[missed it]*. I will be sharing this information with all of those attachments so they all know. *(Describes locations in other cities)*

**M**: Imagine you were planning a trip and you'd like to know where the closest VA facility is to where you'll be staying. What information would be important to you to see about that facility? What would you need to know to prepare to visit a facility?

**P**: First of all, I know there's a different between the clinic, the VA, and the VA hospital. I'd like to know if they have clinics vs just a hospital. Not all of them are clinics and hospitals, some are just clinics and I'd like to know which clinics they have within there. Here we have one that's specifically for women. I'd rather go to a facility that has just the women clinics in it.

[MODERATOR ENTERS A LOCATION] Let's imagine you're planning a trip to CO. And you got a page like this and these were your results, what can you tell me about the facility here?

**P:**  Not a whole lot. Basically it's telling me it's a VA clinic, and that it's closed. I don't know if it's the hours that it's closed, or if it's closed because of COVID-19.  

**M**: What would you interpret facility closed to mean?

**P**: Not accepting Veterans for treatment.

**Moderator:** What would be your next step? You mentioned choose a service type?

**P:**  Mmm  hmmm. And depending on what I'd be looking for - probably primary care (looking at dropdown menu from service type) or women's health, down at the bottom.

**M:** and you mentioned if you saw this (*references facility closed alert, missed whole question*) 

**P:** I would think the facility is closed for whatever reason and is not accepting Veterans at this time.



## Second Task: [DEFINE CURRENT STATUSES] 

We're going to move onto the second exercise.

[PULLS UP OPTIMAL SORT]

**Moderator:** Today, when a location is not operating with normal hours and services, we display 1 of 3 possible statuses. On the following screens, we’re going to look at these statuses and I’d like you to tell me how you interpret each of them.

    - Facility Closed
    - Facility notice 
    - Limited services

#### Closed

**P:** I interpreted that to mean that they were not accepting Veterans for any type of treatment.  The other thing I would think it doesn't have emergency facility either. When I see red it means STOP, we're not doing that. I don't know what it really means, but I would go right past that one and on to something else because it's not offering anything.

#### Notice

**P:** It's something that they want you to know about that facility, whether it's hours or certain clinics are not operating. It's additional information that's not already posted.

#### Services

**P:** This one here actually tells you that it doesn't have all the clinics. Like some have the mental clinic, some may have the women's services. To me this means it's only got specific services not all the clinics you would find at some of the larger VA clinics or hospitals.  They may not have the dental aspect... some don't have mental health. One other I found out a lot of them don't have is audiology. I'm about to put in for [a condition] and they have to dive me a referral to go to civilian.  [*facilitator typing response into card sort*].

**Moderator revisits close notice* *and asks participant to confirm meaning.*

**P:** They're not in operation. Keep in mind I don't really use the VA.

## Third Task: [MULTIPLE CHOICE - CHOOSE A STATUS]  - 5 minutes

[MULTIPLE CHOICE ACTIVITY]

**Moderator:**  On this third exercise, I'd like you to read over the blurb of text and choose which status you think it should have.

**P:** It kind of falls under limited service as well as other. It would definitely be limited services, because there are certain things you can't do unless you're face-to-face.

**M:** *reads blurb* Yes, you mentioned other. If it were other, what would it tell you?

**P:** that there is Telehealth. If there is a list of services, it would say, these are the services and we can do through Telehealth. I guess it could just be a dropdown from limited services with a list.

*M confirms limited services is her response, she agrees.*

[MODERATOR HAS PARTICIPANT COMPARE AFTER ANSWERING]

**Moderator:** What are your thoughts overall about these three statuses for labels on facilities (Facility closed, Facility notice, Limited services)? Do you feel like they are distinct and make sense? Are any parts confusing? What do you like about them?

**P:** Some of these could be like an umbrella. Facility closed means it's closed, no operation. Facility notice could be - you could do a dropdown, limited service note we're doing Telehealth. If you're using facility notice you wouldn't need limited services, it could be under facility notice. This is a temporary thing, no face to face, they could put that under facility notice.

**M:**  so if it just caught your attention with facility notice and then just explain it what are the services.

**P:**  yeah because if there is a notice, that's like something you want someone to pay attention to. Hey, here's a notice. And then under that you can explain what is limited.

## Fourth Task: [CARD SORT 2 - OPEN SORT OF SCENARIOS] - 10 minutes

[CARD SORT PREP]

**Moderator:**  This is the 4th and final exercise.

We just went over three possibilities for statuses that you could see on a facility, "Facility closed," "Facility notice," and "Limited services."  

you mentioned those labels were confusing in **x ways** previously so we think you might have a different idea about how you might name them.

The white boxes contain various events that could affect facility hours and services and currently could result in seeing statuses like the ones we saw earlier. I’d like you to consider each event and sort them into categories. I’ll move them for you.

Afterwards you can create "statuses" that make sense to you. You could use the statuses we’ve already seen or create new statuses.

[Card sort begins, approx 21 min time stamp on recording if you need to review things...]

*Description of card italicized, followed by participants response*

*doc no longer operating at this location*

**P:** Um, I'm thinking, would that be facility notice? That could get kind of cumbersome listing all doctors that aren't there. 

I think there should be somewhere for the facilities where they list the doctors because they do move around from one clinic to another. Like I said I've only used it once a year and the first doctor I could never get an appointment with her. By the time I finally got an appointment she was supposed to be my primary care doctor, and she moved to another clinic. Some of the people taking appts don't know that the doctor isn't there, I don't know if their list is not updated currently, or they don't take the time to see, but that was kind of a pain for me.

**M:** So you want to be alerted somehow?

**P:** Yeah. It could be physician's notice: [missed this] if you have an appointment and your doctor is going to be on vacation, they send me a text and ask me if I want to see another doctor or if I want to reschedule. I like that.

**M:** Let me confirm: you want to see this notice and also be notified

**P:** Yeah let me know somehow. ... I have called in for this audiology thing at least 10 times, no exaggeration, and I have yet to get a call back. I'm just going to go to my civilian doctor and I'm done with the VA

*ice storm card*

**P:**That would definitely be a facility notice. Or maybe closed? I want it under notice because for me, I look at notices first. I'm an [job title], I work with the FAA, and I'm black and white, no gray. We use words that can't be misinterpreted. We use words that are fact.  Being [missed this] for 40 years, I don't like to use words that give you options. I use words that are definite. 

*"Closed due to weather" card*

**P:** When I click on [city] VA, that should pop up, nothing else should pop up. Facility closed due to weather. That's it.

**M:** So more of a description in this case, less of a vague title

**P:** Yeah, right off the bat. Then you don't waste any time messing around with that.  You have a description, you have to reschedule, it has been cancelled... that takes you back to the first one. The facility is closed due to weather and your appt is cancelled. YOU need to call to reschedule. How do you get that information?

*open to employees but no patient services*

**P:** *laughs* that would definitely be limited services.  Limited or no services.  It could be anything! Our facility was closed because they had ants in the cantina or something. So they had to clean the whole hospital.  

**M:** In this case you think this is more limited services, or are you saying that it's maybe closed?

**P:** It's limited because you might be able to still call and make an appt or talk to someone, and do those things, but it's definitely limited.

*social unrest*

**P:** that would definitely be facility notice. It's not the facility that has an issue but it's the surrounding areas. But it is kind of the facility... *reads again* It's a facility notice for sure. It's about how you're going to park or if there is no parking.

*chemical spill*

**P**: That is... *hesitates*. That's kinda facility notice and limited service, because the facility is open but they're only taking emergency appointments. But they're really not seeing people, see I don't know do they take emergency appointments? I don't know that, if you can call in and get an appointment right away  at the VA. I don't know.

**M**: Maybe assume there are certain locations that have more emergency.

**P**: Well, limited services. Mmm hmm. Because they're only taking emergency appointments

*active shooter*

**P**: *reads card* that would be like it's closed, because if you're in you're in, but if you're not, you can't get in. Like what we've been going through shelter in place, you just stay where you are.

**M**: Am I creating a new category?

**P**: I would say closed because you don't want anyone coming because of what is going on.

*Virtual services*

**P**: *confidently* limited services.

*Flu season*

**P**: facility notice

*bad weather*

**P**: I don't know if I'd want to put that under facility notice. I don't like putting temporary things under the facility notice. Maybe another category that something is you know..that could easily be uh, something about the weather.  Cus they're not closing, and they're not limited services, they're just encouraging you, which means you don't *have* to reschedule if you want to get out in the rain.

**M**: how about the ice storm?

P: *laughs* That one they give you no option. They're just encouraging.

*mask required*

**P**: definitely a facility notice.

*construction*

**P**: *reads card* Facility notice

*urged to reschedule to telehealth*

**P**: limited services. Cus the facility is open. Once again, they're using that word ...open but are urged to reschedule... I don't like the fact that when it's something that impacts the facility it's on the Veteran to reschedule. *{missed this}*I have a couple of my veterans in my attachment that they communicate with their doctors, and they're talking to their doctors through the iPad and they can send a message to their doctor straight from the iPad. A lot of veterans love that because it cuts out the middle man and they're not sitting on the phone for 12 hours. 

**M**: so this is a little hard one for you to categorize because of the having to reschedule part?

**P**: it's not really limited because they're urging you. To reschedule but they're not saying that you HAVE to reschedule. That might be more of a facility notice than limited services because they're not saying that you can't come in; they're just urging you not to.

*holiday*

**P**: That could be a facility notice or they could just have a category called holiday schedule and then they're done.  All of those things change, so you could have it in one place. That they limit their hours on this day or that day. ... holidays are coming up, you definitely want to notice that. We just went through this thing with our subdivision, sanitation, they changed our day. They have this big category for holiday schedule but they don't have this thing for we changed your day. Don't bury it. It'll get buried with all this other stuff.

**M**: part of this is having more status, so the information isn't buried for you.

**P**:  yes, so it's easier to find. I really think each clinic should have some kind of category for their doctors, Some people will follow a doctor because they want to stick with that same person. There's no way to know which doctors are at which clinic. If there is, I don't know how to find it.

**M**: How would you categories something like that?

**P**: *references doc moving card* you're telling me that the doctor is no longer there, but you don't tell me what happened to him. Is he still at the VA system? You might want to ask that doctor you've been seeing for 5 years a question, because you know them. It's easier to find, instead of looking up facility notices. Just have physician information or something like that. 

That way I know right away, because I'm hoping that when your doctor is no longer practicing at a location and you say you need to reschedule I don't know if they send you a postcard or text or whatever... something. Because what they don't tell you, they said you need to reschedule, me being a novice using the VA, does that mean they tell me who I need to reschedule with? Or is it on me to figure out who I reschedule?

*reads again*...wait a minute. A different location? I just picked up on that. That makes no sense. What does that mean? I don't want to drive to the VA.. I'm assigned to [city] and i'm not supposed to go to the [different city] VA, my doctor is at this clinic. How do I just move myself and reschedule somewhere else? You can't do that.  

**M**: so what would you like to happen in this situation?

**P**: that right there is very confusing because I know you can't just show up at any location. It says your doctor, and I'm assuming that's your primary care doctor. That situation I was just telling you about, my primary doctor moved and they automatically assign you a new one at the same place.  I didn't have to reschedule at another location because my doctor left. They did it for me, it was a pretty seamless thing the way they did it. They sent me a postcard and said I needed to schedule my annual, and when I called in and said what her name was, they said she's no longer here, [new doctor name] is taking her patients, and that's how I schedule that appointment. Because they told me he took her place.   

*the president is in the area...*

**P**: That's a facility notice but that should be bold because that's going to be more than a traffic pattern, they shut down streets. And sometimes you can't even get in there! 

When I build a website, I do relationship links so you don't have to keep clicking on different topics because some of them actually go within others:

**Moderator:**  Ok, looking at theses categories, do you feel like they work for you?

**P:** I feel really good about the holiday schedule. Um, the one, this one about weather, I feel really good about this one as well. It would be weather notices, something like that. Especially if it's storming where you are, you want to know if the clinic is going to be open. Some kind of weather notice, something like that.

To me, facility notices can get very cumbersome, anything you want to know about the facility could really fall under there.  It's fine, I suppose, you go there and see what's going on with the facility, just like a lot of them now. You know about the COVID-19 if you use a VA facility you know you have to put on a mask, blah blah, I guess facility notice would be the perfect place for that.

**M**:  so it goes without saying there's extra information you need to know no matter what

**P**: yeah, anything that's going to impact you in that facility, it goes under facility notices.  If you can't bring someone with you to the appointment, that should be BOLD. A lot of the patients have aides that bring them in, does that mean they can't bring them?

Some of the things under facilities notices may need to be made to stand out a little bit more than other things. Things that really impact you that you're not getting in the door.  If you don't have a mask, you're not getting in, I want to see that in bold. People aren't really getting the mask thing around here.

**M**:  would that catch your eye, facility notice?

**P**:  Yeah, facility notice is perfect. Just make it stand out. No mask, can't enter facility. No visitors. Those types of things I think they should be bold. That's a lot different than the traffic pattern or construction going on.  Or things like that maybe they should place in their own category.  It should say something about, Patient information, something like that. Know that this directly effects the patient getting into the facility.  Patient information. BOOM right there.  

I definitely think it should be more than those 3 categories, as you can tell.

*referring to new patient information category*

**P**:  Yeah, because those are more than just the facility - they impact the patient. And actually, *urged to reschedule card* that could go under there too.  

**M**: In this case what does Telehealth mean to you?

**P**: just like what we're doing right now except you have the video and you're talking to your physician. This is really al limited service, to me, because there's a lot they can't do [lists things you do with a doctor]. Telehealth I see you can do for questions or maybe mental health. That's about it for m, I don't know.

**M**: does Telehealth mean anything different to you than virtual services?

**P**: It's the same thing. Just like with Tricare, ... they have the nurse hotline or something like that, that you just call in and they do the same thing. Do you have a fever, have you done this, bop bop bop, they just can't see you.

**M**: I just noticed that in this category *facility closed* we have just one thing. Does that make sense to you?

**P**: To me, if the facility is closed, that should be there. Facility not operating.  These other things...  *reads only virtual services*... that is the same as Telehealth..unless.. I don't know. I don't know what the difference would be between telehealth and virtual services. It's limited because they're doing virtual services. 

*reviews cards under limited services*

**P**: the reason I put the facilities closed,  there, is because I guess it is limited services. It could go under patient or limited. But neither one tell you. Which services they can do virtual. I would want to know that. What are you offering virtually. If my ankle is swollen, can I just give you a shot of my ankle and wrist and you can say maybe you need..what deserves are offered virtual or Telehealth? I'm not a fan of those. 

My doctor was offering Telehealth, but how do you labs? Why would I want to just talk to you if I still have to come in to do labs? If you think my blood pressure is high, ok granted I can take it here, but that's not giving me a warm and fuzzy. Because we're talking about something that is bought out of one of the pharmacies, it hasn't been calibrated, and I don't trust it.

[MODERATOR PULLS UP LOCATOR BRIEFLY TO REFRESH PARTICIPANT’S MEMORY]

(optional) [MODERATOR CLICKS INTO LOCATION ON LAMAR, CO]

**Moderator:**  What about now? What can you tell me about the hours and services at this location?

**P:** See, I don't like that. To me that's a limited service. Limited service and closed, they kind of co-mingled. Remember I was saying you could do the dropdown? That's what this just did. The facility is closed but it has limited services.  

*clarifies that they would expect see the dropdown on the search results page with small facility closed alert* 

Why would I go any further on this facility?  I'd go on to something else. It should've been a dropdown to lead me to click and go further in.

One other thing, if the facility is truly closed, make it red. You know how it's pink? Make it RED. That's a STOP. It'll stand out a whole lot more, and t should only be used if it is closed. NO services. That's confusing.

**Moderator:** Do you trust the information?  What would make you trust that the information on the listing/result is accurate?

**P:**  I'm not that trusting of the VA, I'm the wrong one to ask.

**M**: what could be done to earn your trust?

**P**: it needs to be more accurate and more information to what I'm looking for vs these three clicks, or something here where I can click on another page and go to another page. *asks moderator to click on facility name*

See it still says here to visit the website to learn more. Why should I have to go anywhere else? Why should I have to click on something else? 

*goes to page* 

See, it's the same information. But notice how it's in red? BOOM. It makes it stand out.

*participant starts reviewing Lamar VAMC page*, then *[current operating status page](https://www.denver.va.gov/DENVER/emergency/index.asp)*

I like this right here, situation updates, vs facility notices. Because it's giving you, it's updating me on something that's going on that's a situation, remember I was talking about the temporary thing, this is temporary. It's a situation that's happening right now that's causing xyz rather than a facility notice. 

When you put a facility notice, it's going to stay up there until they update the facility whereas situations would probably have a timeline where're going to start here and end here and boom. This is about COVID-19, you know once that's over this isn't going to be applicable anymore.  

And look here, you have facility status not notice. I like the way this is broke down, I like this page. I kinda like that you click from that place and get all this information, but I don't know that since it's just facility closed on the other site.

This website is great *(detail page)* even the color and everything. It tells me everything. It gives you all the information that I was talking about, other than the ... now you know it's not a permanent hitting it s actuation al thing and they're just updating you on it.  You know, like flu season, they could've easily put that under there and they may have had that under there and you know during flu seasons, it's a situation not something that is permanent. Situation update. Facility closed, that's going to confuse a lot of people.



## Post-Task Interview - 5 minutes

**Moderator:**  Any questions for me? 

**P:**No, because I'm learning something going through this with you. Because I've actually been on this page, and I can promise you if I saw that I would go right straight past it, things that are red, I jump. Not just an exclamation point. Facility closed RED that means stop. *reads alert*

