Notetaking template for Moderated Card Sort - Facility Locator, Operating Status
================================================================================

June 2020 Discovery

P11, June 15, 2020 12 p.m. EST

Intro - 3 minutes
-----------------

Thanks for joining us today! My name is [NAME] and I also have some colleagues on the line observing and taking notes. Today we are going to talk about finding locations on the VA.gov website and the information you see on those location pages.

Before we start, a few things I want to mention:

-   This entire session should take about 45 minutes.

-   **First, I will ask you a few warmup questions to get us started.

-   Then, I will be sharing my screen. We will look at the location finder together and I will ask you a few questions about it.

-   You will be participating in four exercises that we will do together.

-   In this session, we want to hear your honest opinions. We are not testing you, instead we are testing the website to better meet Veteran's needs. I will not be offended by any opinions you express, and I welcome your feedback.

-   Are you comfortable if I record my screen and audio as we talk today? We use the recordings to confirm that we have captured your opinions accurately. The recordings are destroyed after we complete analysis, and none of your comments will be attributed to you directly.

-   If yes: Once I start recording, I am going to confirm that you are ok with me recording this session once more.

[Start recording to the Cloud]

-   **I have started recording. I'd like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record my screen the audio as we talk today?" Yes you can record.

Warm-up Questions - 10 minutes
------------------------------

Moderator: Can you tell me a little about your service history? Yes I served in the Navy on the USS Grant which as an aircraft carrier.

Moderator: Have you visited a VA location recently? Not recently but I have a local one. 

Moderator: What reasons do you visit VA locations? Just healthcare reason like physicals or any issues.

First Task: [REVIEW LOCATION FINDER] - 15 minutes
-------------------------------------------------

For our first exercise, I would like for us to look at VA.gov website together, so that I can point out the area that we will be talking about. I have a few questions before we begin.

[QUESTIONS]

Moderator: Are you familiar with VA.gov's location finder? Yes that is how I found the address to the local VA facility when I first signed up. It was easier, I filled out the application for the benefits online so it was easy. 

Moderator: How are you currently getting information on location hours, closures, etc.? I normally google or go to the website and find the link for it. 

[MODERATOR SHARES SCREEN & PULLS UP LOCATION FINDER] <https://www.va.gov/find-locations/>

Moderator: I am going to walk us through a scenario. Imagine you are planning a trip and you would like to know what the closest VA facility would be from where you will be staying.

Moderator: If you were in this situation, what information would you need when preparing to visit to a facility? First would be if it were a VA hospital incase of injured while in that address. I would know what address to prove the ambulance or my family. 

\Have you do not it before: Just once when I went to Disney in the Orlando area. Also I looked for a VA office while there because I was told if I had an updated address I could get the discount for the park so I looked up the local office to get an id while there. 

[MODERATOR ENTERS A LOCATION]

Moderator: What can you tell me about the hours and services at the location? The fact it says clinic it tells me they provide healthcare so that there would provide me information I would utilize.  I would think I would have to click on the blue hyperlink to find it due to it not being noted or call the contact number to find that out. 

Facility closed, thoughts: I did not even realize it was there. Normally I would think the hours would be under the number, if it were under the number my eyes would have seen it. 

Moderator: What would be your next step?

Second Task: [DEFINE CURRENT STATUSES] - 5 minutes
--------------------------------------------------

We are going to move onto the second exercise.

[PULLS UP OPTIMAL SORT]

Moderator: Today, when a location is not operating with normal hours and services, we display 1 of 3 possible statuses. On the following screens, we are going to look at these statuses and I would like you to tell me how you interpret each of them.

- Facility Closed: It means that they are closed at the current time and I won't be able to access the facility. I would not be able to go there. Add at the end of when the next time, like opens at again at 8am. Physically won't be able to go there in person. 

- Facility notice: I make the assumption that it would give me special instructions or something out of the ordinary it happening at the facility 

- Limited services: That would let me know that the hours are shortened at the present time or the services that are offered are limited.  I would think it would be anything that were emergency services available. With limited services it could be hours or services.

Third Task: [MULTIPLE CHOICE - CHOOSE A STATUS] - 5 minutes
-----------------------------------------------------------

[MULTIPLE CHOICE ACTIVITY]

Moderator: On this third exercise, I would like you to read over the blurb of text and choose which status you think it should have.

Question one: I would think this would be under the notice portion. 

Why: I would say because it is telling you there is a change within the process, it is not telling you the service is unavailable. Just the process ahs changed to face to face. It tells you that the service is available but it is no longer face to face and is limited. 

Because it is a change: Yes. I take it as a change, you can still go for emergency procedures but not like getting an ID or a test. 

Clear or confusing: Maybe having it from facility notice to change of service, or limited service to something sense. It should the difference between them. Notice I think it is limited not that it is not being offered at the present time.

Description, clear: No it is pretty clear. I take suspended face to face ; I pop in to ask questions at the desk. That lets me know I cannot just pop up to ask a question and I need to call to make an appointment.

What is telehealth: Calling, via telephone. That is what I have always known. I have seen it listed out in handouts and other healthcare providers have sent it to me so I can receive information and services over phone. With my children I have blue cross and they have telehealth services. 

[MODERATOR HAS PARTICIPANT COMPARE AFTER ANSWERING]

Moderator: What are your thoughts overall about these three statuses for labels on facilities (Facility closed, Facility notice, Limited services)? Do you feel like they are distinct and make sense? Are any parts confusing? What do you like about them?

Fourth Task: [CARD SORT 2 - OPEN SORT OF SCENARIOS] - 10 minutes
----------------------------------------------------------------

[CARD SORT PREP]

Moderator: This is the 4th and final exercise. 

We just went over three possibilities for statuses that you could see on a facility, "Facility closed," "Facility notice," and "Limited services."

you mentioned those labels were confusing in x ways previously so we think you might have a different idea about how you might name them.

The white boxes contain various events that could affect facility hours and services and currently could result in seeing statuses like the ones we saw earlier. I would like you to consider each event and sort them into categories. I will move them for you.

Afterwards you can create "statuses" that make sense to you. You could use the statuses we have already seen or create new statuses.

[CARD SORT]

1st card: I would call that a change in service.

2nd card: That one would be a notice.

3rd card: I would put that in a special notice also.

4th card: That would also go under notice

5th card: That would seem like notice also

6th card: Also notice

7th card: Also notice

8th card: That would be a change in service.

9th card: That is tough because it is ca change of service and it would be a notice for me. I am not sure. A change in service is posted in advance whereas a notice is at the drop of a dime. Emergency, like emergency notice or similar to that. That would then also improve the social unrest .

10th card: emergency notice

11th card emergency notice

12th card : special notice

13th card: Change in service to me

14th: Change in service also. 

Any to move: No those seem. 

Last three in change of service, tell me more: That lets me I cannot physically enter the building but I can call in to get questions answered, make appointments, or get phone services. That lets me know the building is open but are unable to enter unless an employee so you are unable to get services but then again it does not let me know if there are phone services. If I wanted that they should add that telehealth services are available. People may just show up needing services. If you let me know there are employees on site then let me know how to get ahold of them. You may have something that things their issue sis of important and shows up to talk, unless they are told telehealth is offered you will still have people show up for the hell of it due to the important. 

Last one: That is clear, I prefer that. That lets me know I can get onsite services or at least talk to someone about my next action. 

Same meaning for telephone: Telehealth lets me know I will talk to someone, and virtual. I guess they are the same. When I see virtual I think being able to use video. I can see them and they can see me. I would think virtual services would be like getting a doctor to see an injury so I do not need to show up to the site. Have a nurse or doctor check out the injury to see if I need an appointment. 

Moderator: Feel free to think out loud as you work through the exercise.

[AFTER CARD SORT]

[QUESTION]

Moderator: Ok, looking at these categories, do you feel like they work for you?

Moderator: Can you talk me through how these categories might work as more useful statuses on the VA locations pages? You can rename them if you like.

Moderator: Can you take a look at these specific cards and double check that the categories you have made are correct for them? If not feel free to make new categories or move things.

-   "The facility is..."

Moderator: How do you think these categories you made compare to the three statuses we looked at before? (Facility closed, Facility notice, limited services)? I would then say the location is better. At the top, only thing I can think of is changing the color. It blended into the Mac for me, changing the color pattern may make it stand out more for me to look at it. 

Maybe the red, it will let you know that something changes so I need to find out farther what changes, lets me know that there is not a full issue like weather, or protest. It lets me know not to show up. 

Yellow would let me know I could show up but it is limited. 

Special notice would be blue so there is a change and it does not affect me immediately. 

Bolder color: Yes, not having them blend. That color blended into the Mac. 

Moderator: You saw that in some of these cards, facilities were closed physically but still offering virtual services. What status would best fit that in your estimation?

[MODERATOR PULLS UP LOCATOR BRIEFLY TO REFRESH PARTICIPANT'S MEMORY]

(optional) [MODERATOR CLICKS INTO LOCATION ON LAMAR, CO]

Moderator: What about now? What can you tell me about the hours and services at this location?  Definitely stands out with the red so I need to look at it because it will affect me now when trying to go to the facility. Lets me know there is a change that will affect my visit, it goes into detail about when it goes into effect and it provides the website.

I would not take this as an emergency, I would take it as a special notice with a blue banner, it is in advance or will be happening in the future. The red banner would be an emergency like chemical spills, civil unrest, and things like that. That is what the color patterns would help me with. The bold color made me look right away.

Moderator: What would make you trust that the information on the listing/result is accurate? I am not sure I see anything that tells me not to untrust it. I would trust that it would be happening at this facility. Missing the year would make me wonder if this is an old notice. If you see it in that manner I do not know if this is new or old, not having the year associated would make me question it. It is closes at the present time and what I prefer is that it gives me the link for when it opens up nest. This does not let me know if it is opening again. I think it is clear but let me know if it is closed long term.

Moderator: Can you think of a time when the information on a facility was unhelpful or inaccurate and affected your visit? In the last year I have only used it twice. It is tough to say, the few times I had to use it , it was clear, nothing have frustrated me when finding it. Even when doing regular services lie home loans I have never had any issues. 

Post-Task Interview - 5 minutes
-------------------------------

Moderator: Let us say you are vising a ceremony; do you think these statuses we have created would work for alerting you about what is happening at a ceremony? What might be different about that situation? Yes. It would because the cemetery has special events like special notices. So it would let me know I cannot show up that day. Yes the status changes like on twitter or Instagram or signing up for text notices. Now I get text notifications as well from different companies I use. It lessens the amounts of notifications but it can be posted on Instagram and Facebook to.

Moderator: Any questions for me?

Thank-You and Closing - 2 minutes
---------------------------------

Well we really appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us today. Your feedback is so helpful to us as we continue to work on the site and make sure it really works for Veterans.

Thanks! Lastly, do you know any other Veterans, caregivers, or service members who might be willing to participate in a future user research session? If Yes: Thank you! I will have our team send you an email with a little blurb that you can pass along.

Great, well thank you so much again, and enjoy the rest of your day!
