Notetaking template for Moderated Card Sort - Facility Locator, Operating Status
================================================================================

June 2020 Discovery

P13, June 16, 2020 11 a.m. EST

Intro - 3 minutes
-----------------

Thanks for joining us today! My name is [NAME] and I also have some colleagues on the line observing and taking notes. Today we are going to talk about finding locations on the VA.gov website and the information you see on those location pages.

Before we start, a few things I want to mention:

-   This entire session should take about 45 minutes.

-   **First, I will ask you a few warmup questions to get us started.

-   Then, I will be sharing my screen. We will look at the location finder together and I will ask you a few questions about it.

-   You will be participating in four exercises that we will do together.

-   In this session, we want to hear your honest opinions. We are not testing you, instead we are testing the website to better meet Veteran's needs. I will not be offended by any opinions you express, and I welcome your feedback.

-   Are you comfortable if I record my screen and audio as we talk today? We use the recordings to confirm that we have captured your opinions accurately. The recordings are destroyed after we complete analysis, and none of your comments will be attributed to you directly.

-   If yes: Once I start recording, I am going to confirm that you are ok with me recording this session once more.

[Start recording to the Cloud]

-   **I have started recording. I'd like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record my screen the audio as we talk today?" Yes

Warm-up Questions - 10 minutes
------------------------------

Moderator: Can you tell me a little about your service history? I joined the army reserves in 1998 right after high school and during my time in I had a 6n year contract and was activated in 2001 for 10 months then in 203 I was deployed in support in the Iraq war for 1 year. Went I got home in 2004 I separated. I have 6 years in the reserves and almost 4-5 years in the inactive.

Moderator: Have you visited a VA location recently? Since COVID or now. Prior to COVID Yes. 

Moderator: What reasons do you visit VA locations? I am a patient at the providence IR center. My job requires that I go to hearings for veterans with the veteran at the VA centers and they are co-located with the hospital. I go on behalf of them in CT. 

IR what kind of services do you look for- Primary care services in Providence. I get the Women wellness care and mental health services. 

First Task: [REVIEW LOCATION FINDER] - 15 minutes
-------------------------------------------------

For our first exercise, I would like for us to look at VA.gov website together, so that I can point out the area that we will be talking about. I have a few questions before we begin.

[QUESTIONS]

Moderator: Are you familiar with VA.gov's location finder? Yes.

Moderator: Have you had a reason to use it recently? Maybe a few months ago. 

Moderator: If yes, what were you doing? What was that experience like? If no, how do you go about finding information about VA locations? It was okay, normally it is when I am looking it up for my client with their locations. Even though I live in CT the providence RI is closer. I am not use to the numbers and address for CT so I go to the website. 

Moderator: How are you currently getting information on location hours, closures, etc.? I am getting text messages from Providence and if I need to know about CT I would go to the web. 

[MODERATOR SHARES SCREEN & PULLS UP LOCATION FINDER] <https://www.va.gov/find-locations/>

scenario. Imagine you are planning a trip and you would like to know what the closest VA facility would be from where you will be staying.

Moderator: If you were in this situation, what information would you need when preparing to visit to a facility?  I guess their hours, location, phone number, and maybe more specifically what services are provided there. Moderator: I am going to walk us through a

[MODERATOR ENTERS A LOCATION]

Moderator: What can you tell me about the hours and services at the location? I would scroll over the ! to se if it is permanently closed or temporary, on Tuesdays, due to COVID. I guess it does not provide additional details.

Moderator: What would be your next step? I guess I would click the Lamar VA Clinic total. 

Second Task: [DEFINE CURRENT STATUSES] - 5 minutes
--------------------------------------------------

We are going to move onto the second exercise.

[PULLS UP OPTIMAL SORT]

Moderator: Today, when a location is not operating with normal hours and services, we display 1 of 3 possible statuses. On the following screens, we are going to look at these statuses and I would like you to tell me how you interpret each of them.

- Facility Closed: I would assume they are closed due to COVID. Temporarily closed due to COVID, I guess I would expect that the facility is closed to patients and knowing what I know about the CT health care center. There is a phone center and if you were to call the phone number you may talk to someone because it goes to the call center instead of the facility. 

- Facility notice: I would expect that perhaps there is a temporary change for normal business hours and services currently provided. 

- Limited services: Perhaps limited operation hours as well as a limitation is services provided. I guess that is it. I do not know what is happening, I think nonurgent things are not happening right now.

Third Task: [MULTIPLE CHOICE - CHOOSE A STATUS] - 5 minutes
-----------------------------------------------------------

[MULTIPLE CHOICE ACTIVITY]

Moderator: On this third exercise, I would like you to read over the blurb of text and choose which status you think it should have.

[MODERATOR HAS PARTICIPANT COMPARE AFTER ANSWERING]

Moderator: What are your thoughts overall about these three statuses for labels on facilities (Facility closed, Facility notice, Limited services)? Do you feel like they are distinct and make sense? Are any parts confusing? What do you like about them?   I guess limited service. So they are still operating but not under the same circumstances without telehealth. If you had a medical condition that requires them to touch you that will not happen because they are only using telehealth. I do not love the notice; I think it is limited services or other but I do not have a suggestion for other. I think they are different. A notice as an alert. When facility closed, whether they have staff there or not I think of it as you not getting services. A notice could be that they are providing telehealth but a limited service makes more sense. 

Fourth Task: [CARD SORT 2 - OPEN SORT OF SCENARIOS] - 10 minutes
----------------------------------------------------------------

[CARD SORT PREP]

Moderator: This is the 4th and final exercise.

We just went over three possibilities for statuses that you could see on a facility, "Facility closed," "Facility notice," and "Limited services."

you mentioned those labels were confusing in x ways previously so we think you might have a different idea about how you might name them.

The white boxes contain various events that could affect facility hours and services and currently could result in seeing statuses like the ones we saw earlier. I would like you to consider each event and sort them into categories. I will move them for you.

Afterwards you can create "statuses" that make sense to you. You could use the statuses we have already seen or create new statuses.

[CARD SORT]

I think of these are alerts and I get the Text from the VA, like you have to enter those a certain entrance. 

1st card: Comes in as an email alert

2nd card: Separate category,

3rd card: Disregarded card

4th card:  I think of this a s a temporary thing so maybe under the comes in as an email alert

5th card: Are all of these temporary.

6th card: The President would go in temporary email alert as well.

7th card: I would group this with the mask.

8th card: This would be placed in its own category because action needs to happen. You need to call.

9th card: I would place this in the temporary info.

10th card: I would put it with the facility is open to employees but no patient services are being offered.

11th card: I guess I would put that under facility is open to employees but no patient services are being offered.

12th card: I would put that with the temporary info.

13th card: action needs to happen.

What to name the third category: Operating status. 

What to nae the 1st category: Important alert

Moderator: Feel free to think out loud as you work through the exercise.

[AFTER CARD SORT]

[QUESTION]

Moderator: Ok, looking at these categories, do you feel like they work for you? I think so. 

Moderator: Can you talk me through how these categories might work as more useful statuses on the VA locations pages? You can rename them if you like.  I think that right now it says facility closed does not tell me that I can call them or not, that I can get a telehealth appointment. I think if the average person were to assume that there are closed and nothing is happening. With the different knowledge of call centers and telehealth I will not take no for an answer.  Back to the screen, I would love to just scroll over the explanation point and not have to click. The box just pops up and it tells you what is happening. Like what is in the box for the operation status at the present time. 

Moderator: Can you take a look at these specific cards and double check that the categories you have made are correct for them? If not feel free to make new categories or move things.

What is virtual services: I can communicate with providers using telehealth, medical staff through secure messaging. I often email my providers and she is available by telehealth, myhealthevet chat and email. Those are the three big things I can think of.

DO you think it is different from telehealth: When I think telehealth I think a video appointment, Like looking at this one I was not thinking virtual I was thinking electronical. When I think telehealth I with communicating through phone screen. I guess when I think of virtual perhaps they are the same. Still when I read it I think I can email and they will answer it. I may not need a video conference; I might need a refill for medication so I do not need to meet face to face so I can send electronic communication and they will answer it. 

-   "The facility is..."

Moderator: How do you think these categories you made compare to the three statuses we looked at before? (Facility closed, Facility notice, limited services)?

Moderator: You saw that in some of these cards, facilities were closed physically but still offering virtual services. What status would best fit that in your estimation?  See there are services, it is misleading because the average person would see facility closed. Me being me I will not take no for an answer I would find this. I think facility closed is not a good label for their status because they are closed for in person face to face but they are still providing services. 

What would you call this: I guess operating status. Maybe temporary operating status because it wont last forever. That is like oh temporary what is going on and it would signify a change rather than operating status. 

[MODERATOR PULLS UP LOCATOR BRIEFLY TO REFRESH PARTICIPANT'S MEMORY]

(optional) [MODERATOR CLICKS INTO LOCATION ON LAMAR, CO]

Moderator: What about now? What can you tell me about the hours and services at this location? (reading page) I like that I can get primary care and mental health services. I like the hours. I guess I would be curious if you call the number if you get the call center or are you getting the clinic. Like in CT if you call the local number it auto transfers you to the call center. In that hyper link, where does it bring you. (reading page). I guess I like that. I like the situation update, that is nice. It tells me about the current situation and updates me. I like the term for thinking about to the categories, it is a nice way to say read this. 

Better then facility closed: I thin so, yeah. Facility loses is garbage, that is like nope were closed but they are not.  

Moderator: What would make you trust that the information on the listing/result is accurate?  When you scroll down it has service current as of June 16th, I would be confident it was updated but I would call to confirm.

Moderator: Can you think of a time when the information on a facility was unhelpful or inaccurate and affected your visit? No I do not think is.  I do not know if you are familiarity with the books they print, they have benefit guides and include everything you needed to know and including every VA location. Each year it was printed incorrect such as the number or address so I use this in the office and I go to call and cannot get through. Then I go to the website and I think if an error is on the website it can be changed whereas the books cannot be recalled to change. All of my books have whiteout with handwritten information. If I did find a mistake I would send them a message that is incorrect with screenshots. 

Post-Task Interview - 5 minutes
-------------------------------

Moderator: Let us say you are vising a cemetery; do you think these statuses we have created would work for alerting you about what is happening at a cemetery? What might be different about that situation?  In terms of the current operating status, I think so. If there are limitations in honors or the operating status, they may not be as many in one day or the amount of people that can attend with and explanation as of why it is closed, limitation of visiting hours could all be noted and appropriate. 

Moderator: Any questions for me? When can we look for the changes. 

Ebenefits as being a user and then as an advocate it would be good, I had a contact with a contract that did the software for Sep. He is no longer with the company so I do not have a contact. I was about to allow them to know what needed to be fixed and it was a better site. I keyed in the things and then when I placed in the information it was printed out on the VA form. So if you put in tinnitus it was to long and it would add another page to the back of the application. So if your team has that I would be interested in providing information if it would be helpful

Thank-You and Closing - 2 minutes
---------------------------------

Well we really appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us today. Your feedback is so helpful to us as we continue to work on the site and make sure it really works for Veterans.

Thanks! Lastly, do you know any other Veterans, caregivers, or service members who might be willing to participate in a future user research session? If Yes: Thank you! I will have our team send you an email with a little blurb that you can pass along.

Great, well thank you so much again, and enjoy the rest of your day!
