# Tech and Design sync: Notes

_January 11, 2023_

_Jonathan, Eric, Robyn_

**Download - not major tech hurtle, just more work.** 

- Click print -> browser handles it from there? 
    - Eric: Print - would need some custom styling. Print in browser -> can print page (what seeing), but if want to print certain things, need styling/ print style sheet. Would need code in Java Script that would be generated by act of selecting check box (for example), to ensure the ones selected show up on what’s printed. 

- 2 ways to do this: 
    - Click View details -> extra information requested -> then loaded on page (would take longer)
    - For each item on page -> information already loaded on page (already in java script; only shown those selected)
    - Whichever of two options implemented - would effect how printing how works, but either way is doable. Might depend on how expensive/ onerous it is to retrieve vaccine info. 
    - If don’t expect people to be viewing details of vaccines all the time, might make more sense to load on demand. Would speed up the initial page load. 

**Download vs. print:** 

- If add download button - on detail page? What would be use case if want to download all vaccines from experience. 
If do add download button on Details page -> some technical lift, but not super heavy? 
    - Eric: Don’t think it should. PDF generation can be tricky, but don’t expect to be something people spinning wheels on/ too hard to do. 

- How to make PDFs accessible? 
    - Eric: Some PDF generators - give html. If writing semantic, accessible html - pdf generated also maintains some level of accessibility. 
    - Brian’s comments from Design Intent: 
        - Might be cumbersome for tab stops depending on number of vaccines. Drop to view details might be better for accessibility/keyboard interaction.
        - Print vs. download discussion - trouble verifying, but somewhere in head is idea that when print a pdf, open print dialoguea nd save pdf - version of pdf that gets saved strips out accessibility functionality. Going to verify if that's true.
        - Eric verified -> print and pdf -> gets rid of accessibility features
  - Javascript libraries - can take html of page loaded, create pdf that way. 
  - Print style sheets - almost always neglected, no one tests. Doesn’t get a lot of attention. 
  - Just doing as pdf - might lead to more consistent experience. 

**If do have print and download - would have to do a lot of work to ensure downloaded and printed version look the same, or decide that don’t care that different:** 
  - Have to print - mean have to print from browser or having downloadable document, does that satisfy that? 
    - Need copy of memo/ policy
    - Still need to test w/ users

**Sort functionality:**
  - Name of vaccine gets pulled from string - way to make more user friendly? 
  - Not sure how important for vaccine flow - probably more important for labs/ test
  - Where to put? Landing page or print flow?
  
        - Eric: Probably more valuable on landing page than print. Not hidden behind print action. 

- Insight on technical element of sort by time (for example)? 
        - Eric: Not sure if things like that dictated by FHIR standard… Would need to investigate. 

- FHIR specification - it says for immunizations, that the patient/status/date fields are supported
- What is status? (Maybe for series of vaccines) Way to use this field to generate “flags” for people to know when shots upcoming? 
        - Status: completed; entered in error; not done
        - Not sure if Status could power that. 

- Immunization recommendation status code: due, overdue, complete ->
        - Eric going to track down if that appears somewhere; FHIR should support being able to indicate that a vaccine is overdue/ done. 

**Sharing of individual records:** 
- Mike wasn’t sure if can share individual records. Right now - can only share “whole” records
        - Eric: Theoretically, if trying to share individual record w/ provider and their EHR system is able to accept FHIR resources/ records, should take in. FHIR operates under assumption that thing providing adheres to FHIR format. 
Don’t see reason why sending an immunization from VA to elsewhere would be prevented. 

**Next steps:** 

1. Immunization recommendation status code to enable flagging overdue vaccines: due, overdue, complete ->
  - Eric going to track down if that appears somewhere; FHIR should support being able to indicate that a vaccine is overdue/ done. 

2. Have to print - mean have to print from browser or having downloadable document, does that satisfy that? 
Need copy of memo/ policy
  - Still need to test w/ users
