# August 23, 2023: BVA business line review

*Ask VA VA.gov Team*

## Agenda

- Introductions
- Review AVA form fields
- Review category and topic names

## Attendees

- Our team: Tyler, Thomas
- BVA: Katherine Forde, Keturah Harley
- CRM team: Chris Clemens, Jamie Rocha, Shelby
- Not present: Amanda Baker

## Key takeaways

- BVA doesn't currently look at or use responses to `Tell us the reason you're contacting us?`.
- If a Veteran prefers to be contacted over the phone or mail instead of email, BVA will use that method:
> "We will utlize what Veterans prefer. We have the ability to send physical mail."
- They use military service field information to locate the Veterans' claim:
> "These can be used to locate Vet's claim."
- Because their category is specific to Board Appeals (and doesn't include things about Supplemental Claims and Higher-Level Reviews), they're fine with updating the category name to `Board Appeals`.
- We talked about updates to the current topics. Laura, from VA.gov's CAIA team, has suggested updating the topics to align with the current hearing options: `virtual hearing from your home`, `videoconference hearing at a VA location`, `in-person hearing at the Board in Washington, D.C`. But, we learned from BVA that the topics cover more than just hearings:
> "That would be changing it to all hearing topics; their query could be in a variety of areas, not just hearings.""

> "This is all hearings, which is one third or less of what could be happening. Not every Veteran requests a hearing. It makes sense to keep the two topics as is."

> "Preference is to leave topics as is. It helps us triage by looking at regional office or board; and know where to route."
- As far as subtopics, they are okay with updating `All other questions` to `Other`. In the past, they tried calling this something like, `Non-hearing related questions` but found that more confusing. They would prefer that `Other` is the first subtopic, since it's at least 2/3 of the inquiries:
> "Hearings only encompass ⅓ or less of which questions are about. `Other` should be first in the list."
- They would prefer to keep `Questions about my hearing` as is, this subtopic covers many things related to hearings:
> "Usually when it's related to a hearing, it could be a variety of topics. It's safer to have it as as 'questions' – it could be tech problems, scheduling, legal questions, transcripts, etc. It's better to be broad."

## Actions

- [ ] Tyler send a follow up question to BVA about information needed to locate a Veteran's claim

## References

- [Category, topic and subtopic proposed names spreadsheet](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1AlUqvwn49ah2gHniTwx3x0afOPliKgURo575e73OH40/edit#gid=1192783561) we reviewed in Google Sheets.
- [Form fields review (with business lines)](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1GIsq9Y6Ap9mBUL49j1Ad7tm1N_nfD0Yoxw9ThtexCMU/edit#gid=329502423) we reviewed in Google Sheets.
- [Complete meeting notes](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1y5nzZ1pDojdTjKEXu3d0eM_jxj72WrSRxaEsZOoiqkA/edit) in Google Docs.
