# Conversation guide for usability testing for Form 21-686c / staging environment
## Warm-up
-	Would you tell me a little bit about yourself? Your service experience, where you live, general experiences with the VA...  I served from 83 to 96. I live outside of Milwaukee and work for the VA. Working from home right now due to COVID. I have been working for the VA for 22 years now. 
-	Do you have a VA Disability Rating? Can you tell me, generally, about dependents you may have claimed on your VA benefit? Yes and it is 50 percent. I have dependents I have claims. 
-	How often do you visit the eBenefits site? How about VA.gov; how often do you visit that site? Any other sites? I would say at least once or twice a month. I go into eBenefits to go into myhealthevet because it is easier to transfer. Once a month to 3 times a month. I also visit va.gov almost regularly for my job but sometimes personally for me. 
-	In the past, how have you added or changed dependents on your VA benefit? Ebenefits.
-	And last, before we look at the test pages, if you wanted to add or change a dependent on your VA benefit now, what would you do? This can be online or otherwise: website, phone call, in-person... I would use ebenefits again because it is the quickest way. 

## User screenshares
-	Clicks on staging link to form intro
-	Cut/pastes (staging) user login; cut/pastes password
-	Clicks through sign-in screens
-	Arrives at signed-in version of intro screen

**Now we are ready to start.** Because dependents are family-members, some of the scenarios I have on my list (like divorce, children leaving home and even death) may be hard for you to get through. Please let me know if you would like to skip a particular task, and we will move to another.

We will be exploring made-up scenarios that do not necessarily apply to you. In any case you are free to use names and dates from your past--or even fake names and numbers. Nothing will be submitted because this is a test system. However, please do not use real social security numbers--1234567890 should work in those cases.

## Workflow set 1 scenario
1.	You recently married and your spouse has two children. You want to claim all of them as dependents. One child is 15 and in high school. The other child is an 18-year-old who is going to college in the fall.

If they are 18 you cannot go to the ebenefits, and stepchildren cannot go through ebenfits so I do not know how you would go through and do it through here. I would go through and complete the application but it would actually need to be done through the office on paper because if it is done here it needs to be verified with their social and they need to verify that the spouse is the parent. With being 18 you would need the 674 and it needs to go through the regional office as well.

How would you do it on VA.gov: For 18 you would need the 674 so for the 18 year old it is the wrong form. 

Clicks start new application, Claim benefits for spouse, this is weird because with me doing it daily I know where it is and if you do not do it often you will need multiple forms and some people would know that they need it. The system would not understand what you are doing then the person would not know either. You would need benefits for a spouse, child under 18 and 18 year old. (filling information in). clicks continue. Fills out child’s information. Clicks continue. Here is where you would need the child’s birth certificate that shows the mother so the system can add it depending on the spouse. (filling out spouse’s information) clicks continue. I am assuming my spouse never married before and I have not either. (18 year old to 23 year old information being entered) clicks continue. Adding the students address, school attendings, classes in the term,. Review application: looks over the information that was entered. Screen went blank. 

How did it go: It was okay, slightly confusing because of adding the stepchildren and over 18. It was okay to walk through and it allowed you to do both with one screen and did not have to do it separately. 

Anything you liked: I think it was nice that it was all into one and told you what information was needed to move into the next screen. 
What to improve: I do not see how due to the complicity. 

Do you do this a lot: Yes I am an outreach specialist so I have helped about 15-20 people through ebenefits within the past 10 years. I know the regional office is slow to add dependents so we like to try it and it is a bit quicker if it does not kick it out.

How often do you find that veterans are looking at multiple scenario: I think it depends on how old the client is, some older ones have had 3-4 marriages, add stepchildren. I had one that had to remove a spouse and remove the stepchildren and then add the new spouse and stepchildren. The older crowd will not do it unless you are sitting there with them. You wills et up the password and they will not let them in or reset it. The older crowd does not want to use it. 


2.	Your spouse's elderly parent, whom you claimed as a dependent, has recently passed. And your now 21-year-old stepchild just graduated college and is no longer considered a dependent by VA. You need both of these items reported to the VA.
That is pretty involved. Clocks report the death of a spouse, child, or dependent parent and 18-23 year old that stopped attending school. Clicks continue. Veteran information being entered, entering death of dependent information, entering the student that stopped attending school information. Reviewing the entered information. I think everything was entered but I got the weird bug again. 
What was done well: I did not know that you could do elderly parents through here and it was new to me. It was easy to do and the child that stopped school was easy as well. That is the kind of things that take the regional office awhile to do. I thought it was easy to walk through and the system was easy. 


Explain why it was easy: That it pulls into the next screen and highlights areas that are needed to move to the next screen. Sometimes it does not do that but here it tells you what is needed to move on. 

What else: Paper form it would have been two separate applications whereas here it is one so that was a lot easier. 

Anything to improve: No because everything was right there tied into one screen that you can work your way through. I do not see how to make it easier than what it was. 

What did you mean involved: it is not like I added a spouse and two children under 18 and none of us were remarried. This one I did not know f the system would allow me to remove a dependent child. So it was easier to enter. This had more then the typical add spouse and children. 

What allowed you to do more then one at a time: As long as you know what you need to do then you understand what is needed. Here it has the ages highlighted so it provides a nice breakdown. You can report a divorce, marriage, and death. It is easy to click the box and move on. 

What let you know that you can click more than one: I do not know I just clicked on it and it let me. I figured the system would let me do more than one, it would be nice to tell you that you can pick more than one. I did not know if it would let me load both but it loaded them so I wanted to see if I could do them all at once.

In the step for documents uploaded, why was that passed: I did not have documents to add. It was with processing them; I knew what would happen. It tells you that you need to submit them and I have helped others do it in the past. 

How do you think the page could be improved: Allowing people to know that you need documentations for stepchildren or adopted would be nice whereas if they are biological you do not need paperwork. I wonder if there would be a way that as soon as you click stepchild this would popup on the side or where stepchild is selected it asks you to see additional evidence needed. It would be nice that those boxes automatically open up. If they do not know that it is needed they may not have it, it would be nice that they know what they need.
From your experience are all of the options there: Yes, those should be good. Nothing is missing. You would need a copy of the birth certificates if you do not live in the US or a territory. No matter what you need the birth certificate so the part that if you do not live in should be removed. The birth certificate is needed no matter what because they need to ensure that your spouse is the parent of the child. 

Support documentation page: It only has one sentence for stepchild but a whole thing for adopted and resources. I have seen stepchildren as a more common addition. If you are not looking at it, it might be skipped right over so it would be nice to upload the evidence on one screen so you do not need to continuously check.

Let us try to do this, how would you do it: You click on upload supporting documents. It needs to be a closed document and cannot be a word document.  It might be based off the size; it depends on what people are trying to upload. I have seen some adoption decrees are 18 pages and the system cannot add that. It could be common, like for medical evidence. 

For children that cannot care for themselves is this to general: no that is good but the size of the evidence is the issue. I have had people try to upload it and we need specific things I have seen them to be up to 20 pages long. It depends on the child’s medical issues. If the child is 17 then there could be 17 years’ worth of medical records. Sometimes it tells you how big the file could be but I did not see that there 

The biggest issue I see is the cumbersome of signing on, passwords, sign on. We see between 50-60 people a day and almost 3-4 ebenefits need to be reset. I will be happy once everything is in va.gov because it is easier than ebenefits. I have been members of both since the start but va.gov is easier to get into. A lot of people do not know about va.gov. From me because I know about ebenefits and va.gov I try to get people onto that. 

## Wrap-up
Looks like we covered everything on my list. (ALT) Looks like we are at (time), so we will need to leave it here.
-	Is there anything you would like to add--something we did not cover about the screens we looked at--or VA.gov in general?
-	Would you consider being involved in future follow-up sessions?

## Closing
Thank you so much for taking the time to talk with us! Your feedback is critical to our team's effort to improve Veterans' online experiences--and VA.gov in particular. Enjoy the rest of your day!

