# Conversation guide for usability testing for Form 21-686c / staging environment
## Warm-up
- Would you tell me a little bit about yourself? Your service experience, where you live, general experiences with the VA... I am a librarian and did usability studies for my course work so I am familiar with the process from the inside of it. I may not be the average user but I have a lot of the experience from the user side as well and I can speak to what I see the veterans do and from my side. I am a veteran and only served for 2.5 years and medically discharges after 9/11. My husband did a full 20 years then worked for the VA. Between the two of us we have a lot of veteran experience and veteran experience. When I am doing work with the website, it is more than one role for me, like how it helps me and help veterans. I think I do well on things but if I am struggling I look at it as how will it affect the veterans I help. I got my masters in the librarian services so I should know how to work things. I am aware of how that impacts others. 
- Do you have a VA Disability Rating? Can you tell me, generally, about dependents you may have claimed on your VA benefit? 50 percent. I believe I claimed my dependents, my husband did it because I got frustrated. He worked in the benefits office so he took care of it. He did it with paper and pencil, hand delivered because he works there. We did extraordinarily little online and most of what we did were settled awhile ago. I have been out of the service for 17 years. I got out in February of 2003. Once everything was taken care of, I am more familiar with myhealthevet and have some experience with ebenefits. I do not help anyone in ebenfits right now because of COVID but normally I would say once or twice a week or biweekly. If it is basic we assist and if it is complex they are sent to the reginal office. The veterans here are either computer savvy and do not have one or they are computer illiterate so filling out a form is difficult. If it is just the form we will assist but if it is decision making then they are sent over to the reginal office. 
- And last, before we look at the test pages, if you wanted to add or change a dependent on your VA benefit now, what would you do? This can be online or otherwise: website, phone call, in-person... I would go online first to see what the process what. I was not good with paperwork anyways so I would start online and see what happened next. If I can do it online I could do it faster. It slows me down if I have to print, scan, and sign it because then I have to set it aside until I have everything. 
- Frustration and gave it to husband, what were the frustrations: The legalities and it is to cryptic, when you are expected to know it and you do not so it is frustrating. The forms are very legal and are not plain language. I always felt like id answer something wrong not knowing what I was supposed to answer for the benefits. I remember see the paperwork and it is always a lot of jargon that you are supposed to know. 

### User screenshares
- Clicks on staging link to form intro
- Cut/pastes (staging) user login; cut/pastes password
- Clicks through sign-in screens
- Arrives at signed-in version of intro screen

**Now we are ready to start.** Because dependents are family-members, some of the scenarios I have on my list (like divorce, children leaving home and even death) may be hard for you to get through. Please let me know if you would like to skip a particular task, and we will move to another.

We will be exploring made-up scenarios that do not necessarily apply to you. In any case you are free to use names and dates from your past--or even fake names and numbers. Nothing will be submitted because this is a test system. However, please do not use real social security numbers--1234567890 should work in those cases.

### Workflow set 1 scenario
1.	You recently married and your spouse has two children. You want to claim all of them as dependents. One child is 15 and in high school. The other child is an 18-year-old who is going to college in the fall.

Clicks benefits for child under 18 and claiming benefits for 18 to 23. Here it says add dependent then here it says claim dependents. It is confusing when you change terms. 

What is the difference: claiming to me is like when something happened or you are going to receive something for it. If I am adding a child, I got the add part but now it says claim instead of adding. It took me a minute to figure it out and some people that come here would take them longer. I am not used to doing government forms and yes I served and work in government but I do not need to do the forms.

What would you like it to say: keep the same language as add to claim benefits for. I am adding someone to claim the benefits. So I needed to stop and think. Then can I choose more than one at a time.

What would you do: I would like to do all three at the same time, also like the 18 year old hasn’t left for college and they aren’t leaving the house for school so then there are child for 18 to 23 years old that’ll be attending school so you cant. There is no stepchild for over 18. You cannot make the same claim. 

How would you phrase it: Like child in your household. To me know it matters because you have made the difference between child and stepchild and apparently they do not get the same benefits so you cannot claim them the same. Personally, I would not even bother putting the kids on because they are not my child. Now I have two types of children and cannot claim them but I can claim my spouse. If there is not a difference between a child and stepchild then there should be a difference in the wording and if there is not a difference then it should say any child in the household. And if there is a difference I could not claim either and id be done.

What would you do: I would not claim either one, that where my husband was like no you can. I was like it does not say that and now you owe 3K that we do not have so I would be done. I guess you are asking me directly and that is what I would do, I would not claim my children because they are not mine. 

Only spouse: Correct. 

Uncomfortable with wording: Yes and I know how quick they will collect the money that is owe and refunds are really slow. So if we mess up they will quickly take your money and you are doing this because you do not have money you wont mess up. 

What would you do for the children: I might go in and ask directly or look at it and it is not one of the choices so I would not try. 

Listed items are the options and its not there so its not available: I do not think the children are covered under this guidance. Clicks continued

Veterans information is filled out, clicks continue- Stated it is confusing that because it was not automatically filled. When it is opened there is a blank spot first and you go to the A’s and I missing the United States so I went to U’s. Again for my veterans that would be confusing and if it were not in the list I would be asked on how to find it. They also do not know to start typing, some do but the ones I see done. I am 46 so veterans near my age and did mostly manual labor do not know. That is the VA number. I would normally enter an email because I get emails for everything. 

Prefer email: Yes, for the phone I need to remember it whereas email I can organize it accordingly. 

Enters in spouse information. I have no idea what the spouses VA file number is. I know the file number is older when they filed for benefits but is trackable by SSN and the servicemember number is the SSN also. That has been my SSN. I do not know my file number let alone my husbands. 

What would you do: if it is not required I would ignore it. Also the veterans that some in here it would stop them especially if they tried before. They would ask questions and want verification they were doing it correct.

What would you do: That is when if they do not know and it is not required. Unless were talking about a WWII or Korea then their SSN should be fine. Like if the person was nervous about it I may send them over to the regional office and what them to talk t  a specialist to answer why its being asked and what is correct. Seeing that it is not required gives me more confidence. I would personally skip it and go on to the next one. 

Marriage information being filled out, ceremonial means like church? To me it is not legal but it is legal like a church wedding or like a ceremony, I do not know what they are asking. I can guess but I do not know. I can assume what it is but I do not know. My point is I have an aunt that got married at the law office, its not common-law, tribal or proxy, its not really ceremonial but it is kind of is. It leaves a lot of questions for me. Maybe a definition of what it is. Like a little i. We teach people that they can click the i and know more, t helps them. 

Ceremonial is not legal, so you divide a church ceremony is not legal and that is what comes to mind, often people that marry in the church they file the paperwork: The other side is that if you got married at the judges’ desk is that ceremonial. I do not know if the person that did it that way consider it ceremonial. We did sign documents at the church, for me I would pick ceremonial and  would question it because I do not know that is what I should be choosing. 

Additional evidence tab, does it help: Somewhat, but it does not answer about ceremonial. I should use process of elimination that it is correct. I would not be sure, like I said I know people that have not gotten married at a couch and do not know where they would fall. I would also argue that tribal.  is also ceremonial. 

The drop down menu, to add more information. I was expecting to have to add more but that was not bad. Oh I do not know the date of marriage, I do not know when they were married, this is the part that its like oh my gosh. I do not actually do all of these forms if I had to me would discourage by all of this paperwork. 

Clicks read privacy policy. 

The entering the information was easy, it was interesting to go to the dates where you had drop downs expect for the years so now I was like now I have to type. So switching gears. 

You would input tabs then type: yes and then I typed the day and noticed I could scroll then I go to the year and I was mentally prepared to scroll but I had to type. 

What else was done well: Marking what was required and what is not required. Where I appreciate the red *, some people do not see it or do not know what it is meant so it comes back all read because they only filled out half of the information or did not do the mandatory format. It is clear what is required and not required. The format of the date was good. I have seen the mm/dd/yy or month written out, like if you do not know that is what it is asking for it is not helpful especially for those that have not been using computers.
What else was done well: You keep the scree short with large letters, many of the individuals here have visual impairments so this is better than paper because it is small. The font size and clarity of the space is useful. There was a lot to fill out for the spouse, when it could have been all on one page instead of on sperate pages. It was alarming thinking that were done but then have more information.

It was misleading: it was surprising. And again it could be a quick check list, using it at home it is right there but if you are doing it in public they might have to make a second trip. 

## Wrap-up
Looks like we covered everything on my list. (ALT) Looks like we are at (time), so we will need to leave it here.
- Is there anything you would like to add--something we did not cover about the screens we looked at--or VA.gov in general?
- 	Would you consider being involved in future follow-up sessions?

## Closing
Thank you so much for taking the time to talk with us! Your feedback is critical to our team's effort to improve Veterans' online experiences--and VA.gov in particular. Enjoy the rest of your day!

