# Conversation guide for usability testing for Form 21-686c / staging environment

## Warm-up
-	Would you tell me a little bit about yourself? Your service experience, where you live, general experiences with the VA... The whole COVID 19 thing I want to pretend it does not exist I want my life back. With I am with my disabilities I am pretty much homebound. I have a 6 year old and a 3 year old so the only difference is that we do not have to take her to school and her online schooling is not good. She goes to Charter schools that do all of the special programs and you cannot do it on the computer unless developers have gotten better. When you ask a kindergarten with object is fast and which is slow its outrageous. My dog could do that, my kid wants to go back to school and were not affected by it so let her go back. 
-	Do you have a VA Disability Rating? Can you tell me, generally, about dependents you may have claimed on your VA benefit? I am at 100 percent. I have claimed my wife and I think they only have my daughter and don’t think they have my son on there because I am scared that if someone starts messing with my stuff my direct deposit will get misplaced and I have heard stories of people missing money after changing something and I cannot afford that. 
-	How often do you visit the eBenefits site? How about VA.gov; how often do you visit that site? Any other sites?
-	In the past, how have you added or changed dependents on your VA benefit?
-	And last, before we look at the test pages, if you wanted to add or change a dependent on your VA benefit now, what would you do? This can be online or otherwise: website, phone call, in-person... Very reluctantly. Honestly, I would try to do it in ebenfits to see if I can do it myself. I am sure I could but I might have to go to the Vso to do it. There is one at the Outpatient clinic but it has been closed since March so it just has to wait. 

### User screenshares
-	Clicks on staging link to form intro
-	Cut/pastes (staging) user login; cut/pastes password
-	Clicks through sign-in screens
-	Arrives at signed-in version of intro screen

Now we are ready to start. Because dependents are family-members, some of the scenarios I have on my list (like divorce, children leaving home and even death) may be hard for you to get through. Please let me know if you would like to skip a particular task, and we will move to another.

We will be exploring made-up scenarios that do not necessarily apply to you. In any case you are free to use names and dates from your past--or even fake names and numbers. Nothing will be submitted because this is a test system. However, please do not use real social security numbers--1234567890 should work in those cases.

### Workflow set 1 scenario
1.	You recently married and your spouse has two children. You want to claim all of them as dependents. One child is 15 and in high school. The other child is an 18-year-old who is going to college in the fall.
(reading page) Clicks claim 18 to 23 years old attending school, before reading that I would not have even tried because in my mind they are an adult. That would be the child attending college. And clicks benefits for spouse and child under 18 that is unmarried. Clicks continue. 

How did you feel about the check boxes: Yes they were straightforward and easy to understand. When I get to this I panic because I think I might mess it up so I read it over. I have seen some of them that are confusing and you have to read it 4-5 times and still not understand it but this is clear and straightforward. 

Veteran information is being filled out. Adding the child’s information.  Its nice that if you go to skip over required information the box turns red. Clicks stepchild. A child married; I would be wondering if the child’s parent such as my wife. Does it mean that she was married because a child would not be married right. I would choose no.

Why: Because it specifically asks about the child but I could see it being poorly worded meaning the child’s mother but I am going to go with no because the child is not married. 

Additional evidence needed, if I did not have anything scanned in already I would need to scan it in to upload supporting documents. 
Spouses information being added.

A popup occurred, exited out and moved on. 

What are you thinking: (type of marriage) courthouse would be ceremonial right. (looks at addition evidence needed) Common law is just living together for 7 years right. That is confusing to me.

How would you phrase it: personally, my wife and I married at the courthouse so that is what I was looking for. It is not completely ceremonial because there was a procession or music but its not common law either so I would click other. And put in courthouse. I am sure that might mess up someone. This is going to mess something up because a human gets involved. 

What do you mean: Its not just choosing the radio button now there is room for human interpretation. You said you want me to be honest, when it comes to human beings messing with my benefits I try to avoid it, my banking, anything to deal with my personal business, there will be something screwed up because people interpret things differently so it always gets messed up with my account. I try to say the grey man and sail through. That is why I did not add my son as a dependent yet so if this goes well I might add him after this.

Has that happened before: Small scale I have had problems where things get messed up. It was not just one person trying to fix it and after 5 people they were able to fix it. That how I came into the VA because of how I left the Army. They did not know where I was going when I left the Army, they were trying to stop me from just getting booted but I got booted first so anyways. 

That experience : That one plus countless other form friends and others on the internet. I do not have the greatest trust for those that push paper for the government. I am an equal opportunity disgruntle vet even the IRS or the Healthcare providers. 

Experience with the VA that they did this but ended up favorable: It took about 5 months of back and forth jumping through hoops, I got a motorized scooter to go out with my family. The va has their process and said I was not qualified but my doctor said I am. SO I went through physical therapy for 6 months so they can see I need it. They said no. every box was not checked so it did not matter what my doctor was saying. 

What part of this process shows others: no I have really messed with the website due to my fear of messing things up. The fear is compounded because I wouldn’t know where to go to et it fixed and trying to get someone on the phone to understand what you are talking about when you yourself don’t know what it is, is when the anxiety sets in because I messed it up and don’t know what to do to fix it. 
For the kid going to college and is 18 years old. It states it in the header. I was reading the paragraph about the student’s tuition 
Is it clear: yes, I just wanted to make sure. I always read that kind of stuff twice because I do not trust my own brain. 

Term or course dates, okay, at this point I would wonder why they need to know when the kid is in school, they should just need to know if the kid is in school or not. Does it really matter when the exact school start, just are they enrolled or not. Are they really going to check on the start and end date. The expected end date is good though, life happens that can cause them not to finish. I almost did not graduate. Again with the dates, like rally that needed to know when last years school started for my kid. How are there negative numbers. I do not know how you can have negative classes. 

If you were filling this out and most questions filled out were removed due to they are under values but the VA needs the information would you prefer the follow up or do it now: I think since my goal is to just get the kids enrolled into the system I would want to circle back to finish the fine details after they are already secure and in the system Like lets get everyone in and they are a special case due to them going off to school shortly but then need information due to you going off to school. 

See how much would just get them in: Yeah 17 and there is nothing special about them, just going to school. At the end of the questions have them ask if they will be attending school due to them being 18 or if they are out on their own.

You are saying that you want to put their contact information in and if they are going to school after putting in his information then ask if they are going to school: Yes, that is how my brain works. 

DO you prefer it this way or do you prefer to get it done later even though it may take up to 3 months, is it better to do it now or later: The way I would envision it to improve it. Before the person leaves the session all of the information is entered but even if they ended prior to entering the information all individuals would be within the system. All vitals contact information entered then the prompt for the 18 year old school information add. So that it is saved and secured. Maybe not circle back but as a flow chart before the person leaves add a notice that the person is 18 and then ask if they are a full time student. That is when it is good to ask then if they are 18 and not a full time student here is no more information that is need.

All questions required, even for education need, would text information be better to explain why it is needed, would it be valued: Context is great but I would be worried. There was a paragraph about the page, I did not bother to read the paragraph under the heading because I knew what was needed  and completely skipped over it. Unless it is something I thought would be needed to answer the question I would not have read it. If you are going to add why the information is need, it is important to know why it is needed but are the people will glaze over it. I personally glaze over it. Its just how my brain works, I am dyslexic and have issues due to being his in my head to often.  

I like being able to look over everything due to personal experience filling out the forms online. Being able to go through line by line for the information that is going to be received and being able to edit it at that time, I have encountered when you try to back up it messes up but I do want to ensure everything is correct prior to moving on because if the website doesn’t provide the choice to edit I want to ensure it is placed correctly. I do really like this. 


2.	Your spouse's elderly parent, whom you claimed as a dependent, has recently passed. And your now 21-year-old stepchild just graduated college and is no longer considered a dependent by VA. You need both of these items reported to the VA.

Report death of spouse, child, or dependent parent and 18 to 23 year old stopped attending school. Clicked continue.

There’s nothing that tells you to click more than one, why did you click more than one: the scenario that was presented was multifaceted so it asked what I would like to do and going down the list clicking the boxes that apply to my situation so I except pages to populate due to what I choose. Kind of like going to the DMV when you go up there and you tell them what you need and they hand you all of the correct forms.


If you were married and had a spouse with two children, do you see that as one application or three: I would see it as one due to them being filled under me. 

Veteran information being entered. 

Death of dependent information being entered. Was there just one dead in law or two. 

Entering information for child that stopped attending school.

Reviewing application.

Thoughts: That was to easy. I would be afraid because it went easily and everything was just entered. I would expect that someone would reach out to me to discuss the issue. I do not know that was to easy. 

### Workflow set 2 scenarios
1.	Your 17-year-old child has recently married. You need to let VA know.
It would be report marriage for child under 18. 

Veteran information being entered. I think all of this information should already be within the system because the veteran is already in the system. 

Entering information for child who is now married. 
Review application, okay. 

Thoughts: Really only part that was confusing was the email address and phone number because it should already be in the system but other than that it was straight forward.

Why already in the system: If I logged in to login the VA has all of that information already. I get emails all the time and they call me for doctors’ appointments. 

Other thoughts: That one was pretty straight forward. 

## Wrap-up
Looks like we covered everything on my list. (ALT) Looks like we are at (time), so we will need to leave it here.
-	Is there anything you would like to add--something we did not cover about the screens we looked at--or VA.gov in general?
-	Would you consider being involved in future follow-up sessions?

## Closing
Thank you so much for taking the time to talk with us! Your feedback is critical to our team's effort to improve Veterans' online experiences--and VA.gov in particular. Enjoy the rest of your day!


