# Conversation guide for usability testing for Form 21-686c / staging environment

## Warm-up
-	Would you tell me a little bit about yourself? Your service experience, where you live, general experiences with the VA... I enlisted while in high school and was in the air force for 20 years. I have worked multiple jobs since getting out and currently live in AZ.
-	Do you have a VA Disability Rating? Can you tell me, generally, about dependents you may have claimed on your VA benefit? I am currently 60 percent. Yes I have 1 full time college student. 
-	How often do you visit the eBenefits site? How about VA.gov; how often do you visit that site? Any other sites? Not often, every couple of months when I remember about it. I just check the status of my claims are, to see if anything has been updated and at times my dependent gets dropped so I have to resubmit paperwork to ensure he is still on it. VA.gov, I was on it yesterday for myhealthevet. 
-	And last, before we look at the test pages, if you wanted to add or change a dependent on your VA benefit now, what would you do? This can be online or otherwise: website, phone call, in-person... I typically submit everything online then mail in a hard copy that is certified and someone has to sign for it. 
-	More successful: Typically when it has to be signed for, it is easier to show them that the documentation has been submitted other then just sending it through the mail because they cannot trace it. 

#### User screenshares
-	Clicks on staging link to form intro
-	Cut/pastes (staging) user login; cut/pastes password
-	Clicks through sign-in screens
-	Arrives at signed-in version of intro screen

Now we are ready to start. Because dependents are family-members, some of the scenarios I have on my list (like divorce, children leaving home and even death) may be hard for you to get through. Please let me know if you would like to skip a particular task, and we will move to another.

We will be exploring made-up scenarios that do not necessarily apply to you. In any case you are free to use names and dates from your past--or even fake names and numbers. Nothing will be submitted because this is a test system. However, please do not use real social security numbers--1234567890 should work in those cases.

### Workflow set 1 scenario
1.	You recently married and your spouse has two children. You want to claim all of them as dependents. One child is 15 and in high school. The other child is an 18-year-old who is going to college in the fall.

If I have to claim them, start new applications. Repost marriage of child under 18, no. 

Thoughts: I would say claim benefits for 18-23  and then for a spouse. Then claim benefits for child under 18 and unmarried. I think that is it. 

Are you confident: Yes based on these options
Are these options clear: Yes. 

What about t is clear: It explains each category. What people would fall under each on as far as age and unmarried and I hope they are unmarried if under 18. It is easy to determine. 

Clicks continue. 

Veteran information being filled out.

What are you thinking: That I would need to fill out all of my information is what it looks like. 
Fills out child’s information. Clicks add new child and fills out the information. 

Why oh jeez: This is more information, plus the fact that I have to make all of this up. 

Okay so upload support documents, I would assume it is a court order, marriage certificate or other documentation that show they are my dependent or step kids. I would scan it then upload it and continue. Then it will show that it was done successfully and received. 

Entering spouse’s information. Do I just make up the VA fill number but I guess the number would still be there SSN. 

I would upload the marriage certificate as proof. Do I really have to make up the former spouse too. 
Enters in the information of the 18-23 year old attending school. 

Entering the school attending information.

I can hear that this is a lot to fill out: If I was doing it for real, but it is easy to follow. 
Term dates being filled in. 

If you had the option to fill this form completed first then do the rest later, currently you can save it but if not finished you cant go on the next step, but if you were able to skip step but at step 10 you cannot submit prior to it being all completed, would that be prefer: Yes, I just think it would save a lot of time.

How: Well now that I think about it, I do not know if there would be something that shows what information is required for a college student because that is an entire other beast. Once you retire and do not live near a military base and you have to bring in the form from the college and it is a 3 hour drive that you need to go in to verify their college enrollment is annoying. I always have to take off work and always need an appointment. Being a retiree you are at a lower priority then active duty so if there were a way to submit another way online that you can verify the student enrollment you can cut out the drive. 

Different form: The thing we just went through is when you student starts college but after that in my experience they require you to show your student is still in school full time and need that proved even though he is not using the GI bill. 

Do you prefer if these were broken out like enter in your child but then enter the college information later, reduced load: Regardless, we will have to fill it out, it does not bother me. It takes a lot of time, like I said I have to take off work, drive 3 hours just to show them a notarized copy. Whereas I could take that paper then upload it and show he is a fulltime college student. 

you said this before but the question of doing the labor now or later it is either way: I would prefer to do it now and get it over with. 

How do you feel about the review: T is easy because it shows you all of the information that was entered so you can review everything before it is submitted so then you click you have read the privacy act and submit. 

Can you go to veteran information, let say your street number is wrong what would you di: I would click edit. Then click update. 
Was it easy: yes it is. 

Overall how is it: It is simple, just follow the instructions and proved the requested information
Improve: I do not think so I think it is pretty straightforward. 

2.	Your spouse's elderly parent, whom you claimed as a dependent, has recently passed. And your now 21-year-old stepchild just graduated college and is no longer considered a dependent by VA. You need both of these items reported to the VA.

They will require paperwork for dependent that passed. Clicks start new application. I might have to go in and show the death certificate. Clicks report a death and stepchild has left. Then click continue. Based on this I would report the death of the spouse, child or parent dependent then click the child under 18 left the household. You would need the proof that the parent dependent passed and child has moved out. Click continue. 

Was that page helpful: Yes is was basic and easy to follow. 
Veteran information being filled out. 

Deceased parent information being filled out. 
Stepchild’s information being filled out. 

Thoughts: It was easy and self-explanatory

What did you like: It was easy and I am technologically challenged. It is improved from what it use to be, it is consolidated within one site and do not need to bounce to different sites for information. 

When did you going back and forth: I adopted my nephew in 2003 and it took 3 years for DEERS to match up and was stations overseas so it had a command element to it as well. There was a lot of money involved and each year I had to go through a dependent determination process to show I adopted him because he was dropped from my paperwork both active duty and after retiring. 

This process was different than previous ways you filled for dependents: Yes it is more streamline and the information that you need to submit is all in one place. 

Is there anything we could improve: No I think it is upfront and easy to use. 

## Wrap-up
Looks like we covered everything on my list. (ALT) Looks like we are at (time), so we will need to leave it here.
-	Is there anything you would like to add--something we did not cover about the screens we looked at--or VA.gov in general?
-	Would you consider being involved in future follow-up sessions?

## Closing
Thank you so much for taking the time to talk with us! Your feedback is critical to our team's effort to improve Veterans' online experiences--and VA.gov in particular. Enjoy the rest of your day!

