## April 25, 2023: Meeting with Susan Haidary, MHV (Follow-up)

Attendees: `Susan` `Anthony` `Tyler` `Mike` `Matt` `Lisa` `Joe`
<br> Purpose: Follow up to ask Susan Haidary additional questions about MHV coordinators

## Notes
- System MHV coordinators use an identity premium for MHV Premium accounts. Is that system actually validating addresses or other info against any authoritative sources, like MPI, for example?
  - Carnetta is the technical person to ask. Susan doesn’t think so.
  - When a Veteran first registers on MHV, there are character traits like first, last name, SSN, gender, DOB, when they register successfully – they don’t need all 5 of those. They accept the TCs and mark they are Veteran patient or whatever. That matches with MPI. That automatically gives the Veteran a “basic matched account.”
  - When they have a basic matched account they’re ready to get ID proofed. Then the MHV coordinator, and authenticator, the Veteran would go and show their form of ID to them. That person would fill out those fields in the admin portal.
  - They have to be matched with MPI before they go to Premium.
  - What really should happen, is the authenticator or coordinator should be matching the name, DOB, etc. with what’s in the VA record. Once they register successfully, that info is there (not phone, address) but it does tell you their SSN, DOB, they’re MHV ID which they’re issued after they register successfully. Question answers. Doesn’t match to their address or phone number though.
- Staffing. You said there should ideally be an MHV coordinator at every VAMC, and many CBOCs as well. In some cases, coordinators travel to those CBOCs. Any policies around hours of operation or availability there? I did some investigation and saw some places have regular hours a few hours a week, etc. Spotty, regular, more filled out and less. Any policy level standards?
  - It’s up to the coordinator too. They might have collateral duties and only take on MHV for some days or hours of the week.
  - The hope is that many of them have backups. It’s not a one person show. Which is usually someone with another full time job. But sometimes it’s a dedicated backup person.
  - Leadership is a factor too.
  - There are some coordinators that are really taking the reins and running with it within their VAMC, and reaching out to CBOCs and TAP, going into those programmes sharing about MHV.
  - Some don’t have the time or autonomy to do that, though. It does vary.
  - We don’t pay their salary and we can’t tell them when to operate.
  - We do have performance monitoring which drives the push to get patients upgraded to Premium and using secure messaging.
- Backups. Is there any documentation of that? Is that in your roster, or it’s informal?
  - I could share it. I created an online group for the coordinators. “Neighborhood.”
  - Sometimes they call themselves “Connected Health Coordinators” not MHV coordinators.
  - In VISN 23 they have dedicated backups, listed in the registry (Susan shares screen.)
  - “Acting” in this case means they may be posted. “There needs to be a warm body in that position.” Virtual Health Coordinator can “act” as a MHV coordinator. Means they’re filling the MHV position. Filling in the meantime.
  - Primary coordinator is like the super user. They have role admin access. They can activate and deactivate an authenticator. For example, the primary coordinator runs the show, more of the manager. And backup coordinators might be authenticators.
  - It depends on how they organize it within themselves.
  - A lot of them have backups, some don’t.
  - There are also CERNER sites that have My VA Health as the Patient portal, not MHV.
- You mentioned folks' contracts may specify that they’re doing MHV some number of hours a week, in addition to other responsibilities. Is there a min number of hours they’re responsible for MHV coordinator duties?
  - If a secure message is sent to a VA team and it’s not responded to in 3 days, it escalates. So there needs to be someone there to manage those secure messages and the escalations. 
  - I’d be very surprised to learn if they’re working less than 20 hours a week on MHV.
  - If a coordinator is being pulled away to another position, they should let the VISN coordinator know so the VISN coordinator can intervene.
  - I’m hoping they're working way more than 20 hours a week. It really depends on the location.
  - Based on where I sit, they work… It’s a full time job.
  - If they are not full time. They have to pull some support in.
- If we were going to open up the floodgates, and say, coordinators can do IPP. We’d need to know there’s some coverage. For example, the one closest to my house has 2 hours listed.
  - I’d like to know where they’re located!
  - There should be a champion in each VAMC that can at least ID proof them. They can authenticate and then forward that to an MHV coordinator.
  - My understanding is there are a few campuses in Pittsburgh.
  - When they listed these hours, was there any other content or language, saying call? For example.
  - They’re both great facilities. 
  - They also opened the VHRC (Virtual Health Resource Center). Have you heard of those? They opened one in Pittsburg, and they’re opening across VA. It’s like a genius bar at the apple store. It’s all virtual care modalities. With the OCC. Veterans can go and get help with VA mobile, MHV, etc. All these programmes under this one store.
  - Pittsburg just had a ribbon cutting.
- Mike: You mentioned you don’t pay the MHV coordinators. What do you mean?
  - National programme office, we work for Theresa Hancock. We don’t fund the position. It’s funded by the local facility.
  - In 2010, they transitioned to coordinators, it became a position. The funding was for 2 years. Once the funding ran out, the facilities or the VISNs had to assume the funding. That’s when the coordinators started getting more collateral duties, because the facility can get more “bang for their buck.”
  - Some facilities didn’t understand the value of MHV. So sometimes when people would leave, they wouldn’t refill the position.
  - We could, and try to fund these roles. But right now, we don’t fund them.
  - There are still many, many dedicated, full-time MHV coordinators.
- Are there policies about where in the building(s) these folks are located? For example, in the facility in Pittsburg they’re on the first floor of the building etc. Is that typical?
  - Hopefully most have an office and there is signage.
  - Some are located in primary care, which is a good space.
  - Some try and position themselves close to eligibility and enrollment. One stop shop.
  - Really varies.
  - One coordinator in Long Beach moved her office into the VHRC.
  - It has to be private and secure. Authentication.
  - It varies also based on which service line the coordinator falls under, some fall under primary care, speciality care, VEO, education service, telehealth and connected care.
  - There’s really no service line or one location where coordinators are located etc.
  - Some may be in a CBOC.
  - But no way a Veteran should have to travel to get an account. Or wherever they are.
  - That’s why VA video connect is so popular now.
- Training. Training process gives people access to all kinds of access within the intranet, and MHV coordinators go through TMS training. Is this a one-time thing? They do this at the start of their tenure or do they re-do training frequently?
  - At this point in time, it’s a one-time thing. When they start their MHV journey.
  - Susan shares screen (same TMS training list as last call)
  - Explains which courses are mandatory. And pre-reqs.
  - We also made a powerpoint presentation for the Authenticator Role Training, as a refresher. So if an MHV coordinator wants to do training for the authenticators, they could use the PPT to refresh their memory.
- Is this operating under the MHV Premium account verification, or does this also address ID.me and Login.gov?
  - This is just MHV Premium.
  - These folks aren’t getting any formal training for ID.me and Login.gov.
  - No, besides having PPT presentations. We have met with ID.me. But we don’t have any formal training, but I would love to.
- Are you seeing MHV coordinators encouraging people to get Login.gov and ID.me?
  - We are encouraging the coordinators to go that route. Login.gov. I do.
  - Verbally? Yeah.
  - They get the message through our monthly call. Mostly connection calls.
  - Susan facilitates and Carnetta is usually the primary presenter. 
  - It’s like a fireside chat with 150 coordinators.
  - The feedback that it’s hard…
  - The demographics of the population of MHV users that the coordinators see, it’s the older, Vietnam era Veteran, rural area. Many have flip phones. Why are you making it hard? I have Veterans in my office crying, because they can’t get on Login.gov and ID.me.
  - We try so hard to make it as simple – I don’t want to say simple because it’s not for many. We’re on the front lines. People feel like we’re not listening to the coordinators’ experiences (Veterans’ experiences).
  - Every connection call goes in that direction in some way. It can go down a rabbit hole.
- People are doing some in-person proofing already. But getting people to adopt the Login.gov credential is maybe the bigger challenge here. What do you think are the best ways to get widespread buy-in on Login.gov and IPP amongst coordinators and their teams?
  - This would be time intensive. 
  - With Tom Black, we talked about doing a cadence of calls. Even once a month. A “let’s talk about it” call. Like a QA. A mini town hall.
  - Ask which questions they encounter.
  - Not a full agenda and just 10 mins for QA.
  - They need to see you and the team, and be heard. Make it more human.
  - There are 18-19 VISNs. Theresa and I will go to a VISN call and drop in. You can really hear the concerns, challenges, what’s working well. Some people it works!
  - We tend to hear more complaints. And about the flip phones, and the Veterans who are still living in the woods in Montana and have no access. Use the public library.
  - Good for us to join a VISN call, if there’s an opportunity in the future.
  - Happy to work on scheduling. If you think that will help.
  - It’s better to have a smaller group though.
  - Anthony: At least a min of 5 coordinators to start. 5-15 coordinators. Would be great for a focus group.
- Joe: Folks with flip phones. Once they have the account, do they still have issues or it’s just the creation part?
  - From what I hear, more the registration part.
  - Many Veterans use the public library. Or get an iPad through a digital divide programme through OCC.
  - Might be good to bring in Covy Mathas (name likely incorrect)? He works on the surveys for MHV.
  - That will help us hear the Veterans voices. He gets the feedback from the veterans directly. I know more about the coordinator’s experiences.
  - My husband is trying to register through SSN. We tried and it was tough. Kept looping around. He wanted to call the SSA office instead.
- Joe: We’re trying to develop a solution that allows Veterans to engage with us in real-time. When they have an issue. They already tried to do tier 1 triage, can we assist them? In addition to help desk. Should I talk to you?
  - I hear when people are hearing issues with Login.gov. I can collect names?
  - We can look at surveys with Covy’s tools.
  - We can certainly recruit Veterans?
  - That’ll be fine (to meet again with Joe about this).
- Deferred identity proofing
  - If we can’t use deferred identity proofing, that’s going to be an issue.
  - Have you heard anything more about that?
