## May 2, 2023: Questions about IPP Feedback

Attendees: `Carrie McGrath` `Anthony Levin-Decanini` `Tyler Gindraux` `Amanda Porter` `Clayton Zook` `Charlye Tran` `Mike King`
Purpose: Met with Carrie, PO on IPP from Login.gov to learn more about how IPP is going

## Notes

### Carrie explained drop-off rates in the digital start of the flow
- 14% of people click on CTA for IPP (IPP_cta_clicked)
- 104% of people view locations, it’s not unique users hence over 100 (view_IPP_locations)
- 37% of people select a PO (PO_location_selected)
- verify_success 57% is verify they have entered all the information digitally

### Proofing rate in person is high
- High proofing rate 95%
- 5% failure is usually because people bring the wrong ID: military ID or passport
- 23% of people used_secondary_proof for example, if their ID has an out of date address on it, so they need to bring a secondary proof of address
- Accepting military IDs and passports: Discovery work kicks off next week

### If people don't go in right away, they usually won't go in (and it will expire)
- Expired 16% 30 days to go to the post office
- On average people get there within 15 hours
- Outside of that, it becomes very unlikely they’re going to show up at all

### They piggyback on USPS informed delivery process
- Matches this informed delivery process you already know how to do. Helps with training (or lack thereof).

### Why can’t people complete it?
- Lots of people put in wrong ID number
- Trying to work out how to standardize that or throw an error if they put the wrong format
- Fraud attempts, putting SSN that aren’t real
- Some of the drop off is probably people who shouldn’t be in the process
- Some people on our team who can’t get through it
- Potential DMV/license issues?
- Address submitted, very few instances of this but a mismatch of… multiple cities with same zip code, causing an error?
- We’ve observed the format of the ID causing issues
- Address, SSN we have to hope they type correctly

### Have you noticed a difference in the data based on where they’re starting/coming from?
- We haven’t looked at it
- Such higher numbers at the VA, so we'd need to look at ratios

### Drop off at the PO location select
- Are people surprised they’re going in person? Are people struggling to find a location that’s convenient?
- We looked at the CTA to go into IPP. It used to say, try at the post office. The button said post office. We switched it to say try in person, so a lot more people actually clicked on it. A/B test on language once you get in.
- Verify your identity in-person, look at these locations you can search for here. Search for locations early step, search right away.
- We used to only have 7 locations. Debating if that still makes sense now that there are so many locations, do people need to know that right away?
- Curious if putting more of the data entry on one page. Right now, ID number, next page, address, next page. Long-form would feel like it’s moving faster?
- Not failing from a lack of options, likely.
- You can’t just type in your zip code. We’re using USPS API. Street name, city, state. A few people think they need to type in post office address. Most people see the address of the post office they’re expecting to see at the top.

### Lessons learned
- Number 1 lesson learned: CTA, changing the button to ‘in person’ vs. ‘post office’
- Zip code search is a big gripe for a lot of people, hands are tied with USPS API at the moment
- We’ve gotten feedback that people want to be able to search outside the workflow, worried people would just start showing up at the post office
- Manage expectations so people don’t just go straight to in-person (it’s fallback only)
- Discovery on what a fully in-person option could be, or go straight to IPP
- People show up to post office and clerks don’t know what Login.gov is; most of the time it doesn’t prevent anyone from actually getting proofed because they know informed delivery process
- Post office is going to put up more signage in participating locations, so many locations, really high turnover rates for staff/training
- 1200 unique sites have been visited. Most sites have had 1 person, so this isn’t something that happens often. 

### Mike wants more detail
- Wants to know where the drop off is and what the complaint is
- Pie chart is sent out monthly

### How they're collecting data
- Follow up email after success/fail proof
- One partner put a blurb in monthly newsletter, if you need to get identity verified can this team watch you do that, so some people do that that way
- Friends and family
- Usertesting.com
- Just got approved to do some follow on contextual research with people in-person, but they haven't done much in-person research yet
