## Objective: VBA Regional Office MVP editors can begin entering content about their regional office services in the CMS.
- Current state: No VBA Regional Office editors have access or ability to provide timely and accurate information about their offices on VA.gov.
- End of Q4 state: 

## Objective: The Facilities team (and those who rely on us) are prepared for the deprecation of Lighthouse v0.
- Current state: Facilities team is determining who relies upon our data that might be affected by deprecation of Lighthouse v0.
- End of Q4 state:

## Objective: Veterans can view timely and accurate data about VA police activity at the VAMC facility level.
- Current state: No VAMC facility-level police data is currently available on VAMC pages on VA.gov.
- End of Q4 state:

## Objective: Validation of Mobile map design
- Current state: Mobile map design is currently being developed and not yet vetted by engineering.
- End of Q4 state:

## Objective: Vet Center users have up to date, accurate, and reliable location and service information provided by Vet Center editors.
- Current state: As of Sept. 19, there were 497 VC editors
  -  11% had never logged in
  -  16% hadn’t logged in within the last month
- End of Q4 state:

## Objective: VAMC editors provide timely and accurate facility-level mental health phone numbers for Veterans.
- Current state: Currently, mental health phone numbers come from a centralized database that may not accurately reflect what editors are aware of.
- End of Q4 state:

## Objective: The Facilities team knows the status of the connections we depend upon to prevent disruptions to Veterans' access to information and services.
- Current state: Facilities team currently doesn't have a complete view of the connections we depend upon.
- End of Q4 state: For every connection we depend upon, we know the monitoring or testing needed to detect disruptions.

## Objective: Vet Center benefit and eligibility information is consistent across VA.gov.
- Current state: Q&A information on Vet Center pages is inconsistent across VA.gov.
- End of Q4 state: Q&A information on Vet Center pages comes from a single source and is therefore consistent across VA.gov.

## Objective: Veterans can search the Facility Locator for community care providers who have completed training.
- Current state: Veterans aren't able to search for VA services or facilities by community care providers who have completed training.
- End of Q4 state: Facility Locator can support searches for community providers who have completed training. (The blocker might be having enough providers to make this search practical.)
