# Participant #, Date and time

## **Instructions**

We will be able to get ok transcripts from EnjoyHQ, so focus notes on observations, clearly defined interpretations, and impactful utterances.


* Focus on observations of user behavior. 
    * Example of observation: “Participants clicks on My VA tab, hovers over X header, then back buttons to landing page.” 
    * Example of observation: “Participant says ‘this is annoying, that makes no sense.’ when looking to login to BTSSS.”
* Be clear where notetaker is interpreting or making inferences of what participant is thinking/feeling
    * Example of interpretation: “Based on facial expressions, participant seems to be confused.  Going back and forth between X and Y pages seems like they are looking for something.”
    * Example of interpretation: “Participant easily found link no frustration.” 


## **Context setting and questions - max 5 min**

Q1: After you have submitted a travel claim for reimbursement, how do you know what happens to it? 
* We have to start with submitting. If I go to community care. I wont' get reimbursed. It tells me the address is not accepted and it's the address they provided.
* Half the time I just don't get reimbursed for Community Care. It's very frustrating.

* What do you think happens to it?
  * Nothing happens. I go back and it says pending and then I just look for a deposit after few weeks.
  * I go back into the BTSSS website and it sasy pending or denied.
  * It takes so long that I lose the 30 days. I've had it happend multiple times.
  * There should eb one place to do all the VA stuff that a person cannot find.


Q2: When you hear the term “claim status”, what do you think of?  
  * I think of pending.
  * Pending means to me that i'm not likely to see that money.


* What do you want to know from a claim status?
  * I want to know the time left. especcially if it's up to the 30 day mark.
  * Thye already know the address, docter and all the information
  * They should have an apporval time limit


## **Mural exercise**

### Exercise 1: Label definitions 

Note what participants go back and forth on.  What do they debate? What do they change? What reasons for trashing cards do they give?
* User labels card ...
* User question if these additional definitions happen as they have only seen pending
* Card 6 - Most people don't know remitted. Maybe closed or paid.
* Card 7 - I wouldn't call it something that I've already labeled something else.
* Card 8 - Don't hold your breath (Ha!). I don't think theyre is a good name for this one.
* Card 10 - Why do we need to know that? Are you telling me you've approved it and you've passed the buck over to the FSC. THere is now way to access the FSC so I'm not sure the pupose of this is
* Card 11 - It's uregent b/c you are not going to get your payment becasue fo the bank. Then your 30 days is past and you are denied.
* Card 12 - THe UX is terrible. Submit should mean submit. Not submit then review to submit. You're not done yet!
* Card 14 - Business as usual.  It's been approved but the FSC rejected it. How can the FSC reject a payment? THe payment was cancelled not rejected.
* Trash or add...
* 7 seems redundat to 2
* User equates BTSSS approval with FSC approval
* Card 12 is only deleted assuming that the UX would not be changed 

### Exercise 2: Grouping

Note what participants go back and forth on.  What groups do they debate? What do they change? What reasons for trashing cards do they give?
* Anything with payments should be grouped
* Submitting
* Payment denied is sepearte from payments
  * User is very frustrated with denied payments
* Missing information
  * Most of the time it is missing there own information
  * This is alo and action but it's not urgent
* Action (you still need to do something)
  * These items are urgent and timely

### Anything else

* There has to be the message that you have saved but not submitted
* I'd like to know when a clerk is going to contact me. That has never happened. No notification or email. It's up to the user.
