# Participant 11, July 19, 2024 at 12pm ET

## **Context setting and questions - max 5 min**

M:After you have submitted a travel claim for reimbursement, how do you know what happens to it? 
* P: Basically I can go on line and kind of track that info and I can call a number ot track that information. That's from my experience of knowing when I can file a claim. I just kind of went to my first appointment, so I haven't gotten too far into starting that process. 
* What do you think happens?
* P: I assume I submit some forms that the website VA may have and once the VA processes those documents,  I assume I receive that money back into my account. 


M: When you hear the term “claim status”, what do you think of?  
P: Some documents you have submitted to start a process. 

* M: What do you want to know from a claim status?
   * P: Basically where I am at in the process, and how long it may take the process for me to file the claim...umm...the steps it takes - like an FAQ questionnaire...umm...and what documents I need in order to process the claim. 

* M: I am hearing that you want to know what the process is, where you are in that process, and how long it will take. Is that right? 
P: Yes, right. 


## **Mural exercise**

### Exercise 1: Label definitions 

Note what participants go back and forth on.  What do they debate? What do they change? What reasons for trashing cards do they give?

M: [Goes over key terms and gives context for the exercise]. 

P: [moves quickly through cards 1-4, hesitates on card 5].

P: [moves quickly through cards 6-8, hesitates on card 9]. [In reference to card 9]: Can I say "partial payment approved, see further details?...I say that because you would want to understand the reasons why the full payment wasn't approved."

P: [Hesitates on card 13]. "claim not processed?...no, that's not what I want to say - that's confusing. I know I would be confused. Umm.. [silently thinks for a little bit]. I want to say "no payment, see further details" but I'm trying not to use so many words. 

M: It's okay, it's okay to use more than 4 words if you think it labels it well or encapsulates it well. Okay, we're in the home stretch! 


M: I want to look at these cards again and look at these to see if there are any you'd get rid of or trash because you don't find them useful? 

P: Yeah, I was already thinking about this and wondering if I'd want to keep all of them. 

M: Okay, are there any cards that you would add? 

P: Umm..especially the ones that are like "rejected payment" - I think people would want to know the reason. Because, if you went through the process to put in a claim and it was rejected, you would want to know why. 

M: Are there any cards or statuses that you think are missing? 

P: Umm..let me think. I'm still new to this process. Um...at this time I would say no. 


### Exercise 2: Grouping

Note what participants go back and forth on.  What groups do they debate? What do they change? What reasons for trashing cards do they give?

* P: 9, 10 & 14 I would put together. 
* M: okay [moves them on the mural board]
* P: I would call these "payment resolution" 
* P: 1, 3...7 is going to go in there as well...and we can call this "claim submission" or "claim submitted." Yeah, "claim submitted." 
* M: Okay.
* P: Umm 13, 17...15 as well. And I would call this "travel clerk status" or "awaiting travel clerk" 
* P: Can we add in 16 as well? To that section? 
* M: [reviews the bucket categories that have been created so far]
* P: #5 can go into claim submitted as well
* P: #11 and #4 can go into payment resolution
* P: #12 can go into the first group: payment resolution. 
* P: And the other one can go into travel clerk status. 
* M: What I want to do now is look at your individual groups. For instance, let's start with your first group: payment resolution. Which has cards 9, 10, 11, 4, 14, 12 [reads the definitions out loud]. Why are these cards together? What did they have in common? 
* P: They all have issues with their payment. They went through the process of submitting their claim but um...or they are awaiting payment resolution and they have received a resolution about their...or received a resolution for their payment status. 
* M: Now let's look at your next group "claim submitted" which includes cards 1, 3, 7, 6, and 5. [Reads definitions out loud]. What is this group about, what do these have in common? Why are they in a bucket together? 
* P: Because they are all waiting for approval and have some form of payment. 
* M: Anything else about them that you see as having in common? 
* P: No, that's it. 
* M: Okay, let's look at the third category "travel clerk status or awaiting travel clerk" which includes cards 13, 17, 8, 15, 16, 2. What do these have in common 
* P: They are all going through travel clerk processing.
* M: When you say "Travel clerk" what does that mean to you? 
* P: To me, that's either the name of the system, or it's a department or the name of the system that they're using. [note: confusion about what travel clerk might mean] 
* P: Or travel clerk status? To me they are waiting for the travel clerk....hold on, let's see. I'm trying to think of how to say this. I want to say like, umm....final decision. Like travel clerk final decision.
* M: Okay, so when yo usay "travel clerk final decision" what does "final decision" mean to you? 
* P: Well I guess the final decision after submitting the claim. But it almost gives me though that you can't appeal it if you wanted to. You know, so...it still kind of goes along with that - it's their final decision after submitting a claim." 
* M: And how do you think about these 3 groups [that the P created] and how they relate to each other, if at all? 
* P: [notetaker missed what was said here]
* M: And how does something end up in payment resolution vs. claim submitted?
* P: I would say claim submitted means you just started the process of submitting the claim. Travel clerk status is like you already started the process and may have received a resolution on your travel. 
* M: How does a card end up in payment resolution vs. travel clerk status? 
* P: the payment resolution is the final decision. but hat kind of goes along with the travel clerk status....I would say final decision and like an appeal decision. I feel like you can appeal it too if you have to. Yeah, I would say and appeal decision.
* M: Okay, so "payment resolution" is a more final decision mixed with appeal resolution? 
* P: yeah. well, I don't know if I want to say final decision because what if I have questions? 
* P: Maybe "claim decision" instead - you can take all those other words off and just put "claim decision" 
* M: Why does something end up in "claim decision" or "payment resolution (two names) vs. travel clerk. 
* P: Because you can appeal it even if you received a decision.
* M: Okay, so for payment resolution you may have received a resolution you didn't like and you can appeal it. Am I interpreting that right? 
* P: Yes. 
* M: My last question is just are there any cards you would trash or add, now that we've gone through this process? 
* P: Umm..can you make it a little bit bigger? 
* P: Once again, I would say keep all the cards because everyone has different questions and answers that they may need to those questions, os this might fulfil a llot of questions that people may have in the process of them getting paid. So I wouldn't trash any of the cards. 

### Anything else
* M: Anything else you would include? 
* P: Yeah, maybe the steps of the process - list those for the claim including the date of the claim and the timeframe. You'd like to know how long the process might take until it is completed. 
* M: Anything else you'd add?
* P: Umm, no. That will be all. 
* M: Anything else yo uwant to share? 
* P: Make sure that information is noted for Veterans so that once we are done with the process, because it is a hassle already just getting to places and going through teh process. Just make sure the information is there for the awareness of Veterans. It isn't displayed enough and they don't really know too much about it. 
* M: When you say "aware" and "displayed" can you share more? 
* P: So like at the VA hospital when you go, you know how they have a pamphlet somewhere. You know, they have a board somewhere. You can have something that says "did you know where to submit your travel? or do you know how to submit your travel?" IT rings a bell...it give sthem an idea that "oh I didn't know we could submit our travel somewhere." 
* M: Oh, so like awareness of the benefit. 
* P: right. 
* M: And when you talk about transparency and awarenss of the process what do you mean? 
* P: how to submit the claim and what do I need in order to submit the claim. 
* M: What are you most worried about after you submit the claim? 
* P: umm..I wouldnt' say how long it takes because that really wouldn't matter...um...actually I would say that - how long does this process say? They may need those funds. So I would say how long does the process take to be reimbursed? Or...I'd also say where can the funds be submitted? so people may have different bank accounts. Or after they approve the funds, how long until it gets to your bank account? 
