# Participant 17, Tuesday, July 16, 3:30pm - 4:30pm

## **Instructions**

We will be able to get ok transcripts from EnjoyHQ, so focus notes on observations, clearly defined interpretations, and impactful utterances.


* Focus on observations of user behavior. 
    * Example of observation: “Participants clicks on My VA tab, hovers over X header, then back buttons to landing page.” 
    * Example of observation: “Participant says ‘this is annoying, that makes no sense.’ when looking to login to BTSSS.”
* Be clear where notetaker is interpreting or making inferences of what participant is thinking/feeling
    * Example of interpretation: “Based on facial expressions, participant seems to be confused.  Going back and forth between X and Y pages seems like they are looking for something.”
    * Example of interpretation: “Participant easily found link no frustration.” 


## **Context setting and questions - max 5 min**

Q1: After you have submitted a travel claim for reimbursement, how do you know what happens to it? 
* What do you think happens to it?
   * Sometimes I check the website (BTSSS) with any kind of status.
   * I wait to see if I reciev money
   * I assume it goes to the travel department and the approve or deny it


Q2: When you hear the term “claim status”, what do you think of?  
* What do you want to know from a claim status?
   * What's currently going on with the claim
   * Where it is in the process
   * How much is going to be apporved


## **Mural exercise**

### Exercise 1: Label definitions 

Note what participants go back and forth on.  What do they debate? What do they change? What reasons for trashing cards do they give?
* User labels cards...
* Card 10 - Assigned but not recieved makes me think of pending
* Card 13 - Caused user to pause longer than others
* Card 16 - I'd still say claim denied even though I already said that
* Trash card exercise...
* You can remove 13 & 14 if you say it's denied and why. We care more about the end result
* 

### Exercise 2: Grouping

Note what participants go back and forth on.  What groups do they debate? What do they change? What reasons for trashing cards do they give?
* User groups cards...
* Claim status - Where your claim is right now
* Claim pending additional info - Claims need more info for processing
* Furher review needed - Anything that has to be sent elsewhere (another department)
* Denials - Any reason for denail
* Approvals - Any reason related to approvals or payment approved
* Submitted, pending, approved or denied with reason, or paid is all you need

### Anything else
* Personally I don't like the BTSSS site. It's not user friendly.
* It's just a list and you have to figure out what goes with what.
* A claim number that isn't clear wht goes with what.
* The process at the kiosk is an easy process
* I don't look because it's annoying to know what is what
* It would be nice to know where it is in the process
* Like the VA claims that has the status and where it was in the process that has the line that shows were it is
* Maybe a better understanding about how cliams are paid. You never get that amount. Why does $30 turn into $7
* It would be nice to be notified with an email or a text. You don't know unless you go back into the site
* I'd want to be notified, not about submitted, I'd like to know pending review and seeing approved or denied and the approved with the amount sent. Just so you know what's going on since you go on with life and forget about it.
* I want to know it's good, it's done, and the money is coming.
