# Participant 16, Thursday July 18, 3:30 - 4:30pm EST

## **Instructions**

We will be able to get ok transcripts from EnjoyHQ, so focus notes on observations, clearly defined interpretations, and impactful utterances.


* Focus on observations of user behavior. 
    * Example of observation: “Participants clicks on My VA tab, hovers over X header, then back buttons to landing page.” 
    * Example of observation: “Participant says ‘this is annoying, that makes no sense.’ when looking to login to BTSSS.”
* Be clear where notetaker is interpreting or making inferences of what participant is thinking/feeling
    * Example of interpretation: “Based on facial expressions, participant seems to be confused.  Going back and forth between X and Y pages seems like they are looking for something.”
    * Example of interpretation: “Participant easily found link no frustration.” 


## **Context setting and questions - max 5 min**

Q1: After you have submitted a travel claim for reimbursement, how do you know what happens to it? 
* What do you think happens to it?
   * You don't know what happens to it. I have no idea. Sometimes I think theresis a huge void b/c you don't hear things back
   * I assume there is a process where there is a process that they put it through and then put it in your nbank account


Q2: When you hear the term “claim status”, what do you think of?  
* What do you want to know from a claim status?
   * Multiple things... could be VES CMP. VA is accronym happy
   * I think I'd like to know if there is a easier quicker online process instead of the paper process
   * I don't even put in for it any more b/c it's so difficult


## **Mural exercise**

### Exercise 1: Label definitions 

Note what participants go back and forth on.  What do they debate? What do they change? What reasons for trashing cards do they give?
* User labels cards...
* Card 2 - A mistake, I don't know. I don't understand what additional information would be needed
* Card 14 - Debated on how best to say this rejection
* Card 15 - I'm trying to keep it positive... I'm assuming they could resubmit
* Card 16 - Makes me rethink 15...
* Trash cards exercise...
* I wouldn't trash 6 but I'd rephrase it...
* Card 8 - doen't mean anything. Whether it's manual or AI doens't matter to the Veteran. I did my part and now it is up to you
* Card 13 I'm trying to understand b/c it may not be clear enough without a reason

### Exercise 2: Grouping

Note what participants go back and forth on.  What groups do they debate? What do they change? What reasons for trashing cards do they give?
* Grouping exercise...
* More information required - It's a claim review
* There is all these denials but they are different so I wouldn't group them
* Submisions together, appeals together, denials together, etc...
* Status pending - User goes back and forth over naming. Claim in process or pending b/c it's letting you know... that it's in review and a final disposition
* Payment status - User goes back and forth over naming. This way it tells you that it's denied or reimbured or a partial payment. It's incomplete information or inappropriate information. If it goes back and forth you need to know if you are getting something or not and it's giving you information
* Manual review is the only one I'd get rid of because all Veterans want to know am I going to get paid or not... all it tells me is who to get mad at.
* You should have something simple as paymet finalized or approved

### Anything else
* Sometimes people game the system. I dont know anyone that get's paid to go to a doctor so sometimes I think it's not necessary and should go to the Uber Health. Knowing the VA is going to pay for that is really helpful.
