# Participant 24, Friday, July 19, 3:30pm - 4:30pm est

## **Instructions**

We will be able to get ok transcripts from EnjoyHQ, so focus notes on observations, clearly defined interpretations, and impactful utterances.


* Focus on observations of user behavior. 
    * Example of observation: “Participants clicks on My VA tab, hovers over X header, then back buttons to landing page.” 
    * Example of observation: “Participant says ‘this is annoying, that makes no sense.’ when looking to login to BTSSS.”
* Be clear where notetaker is interpreting or making inferences of what participant is thinking/feeling
    * Example of interpretation: “Based on facial expressions, participant seems to be confused.  Going back and forth between X and Y pages seems like they are looking for something.”
    * Example of interpretation: “Participant easily found link no frustration.” 


## **Context setting and questions - max 5 min**

Q1: After you have submitted a travel claim for reimbursement, how do you know what happens to it? 
* What do you think happens to it?
   * Of late, I have been getting reimbusements automatically n the mail. I only filed once on my behalf in the past. I had a VA evaluation through a vendor and they sent the reimursement on my behalf
   * I would imagine it goes to some sort of division in the travel office. Makes sure there was an appointment and the patient showed up.


Q2: When you hear the term “claim status”, what do you think of?  
* What do you want to know from a claim status?
   * Where it is iinthe process. Submittedn, evaluationed, dispursed.
   * I want to kow where it is if I was trying to track it. Especcialy if I haven't recieved it in 30 days.
   * Mostly just want to know the dispursement and the date associated. That way if I don't see it I can follow up on it.


## **Mural exercise**

### Exercise 1: Label definitions 

Note what participants go back and forth on.  What do they debate? What do they change? What reasons for trashing cards do they give?
* User labels cards...
* Card 11 - Some hesitation on how to name this one but nothing said as to why
* Card 12 - Some hesitation on how to name this one but nothing said as to why
* Card 13 - Some hesitation on how to name this one but nothing said as to why
* Card 15 - This is like the other one that says Claim on hold
* Card 16 - Another Claim on hold
* Trash card exercise...
* I think they are all valuable
* I would just add ways to contact someone on some of these cards
* I'd like to seem him horizontially in the differenst stages of the claim
* I'd want to be nofified about all of them. Specifically ones that needed information from me

### Exercise 2: Grouping

Note what participants go back and forth on.  What groups do they debate? What do they change? What reasons for trashing cards do they give?
* User groups cards...
* Claim submitted group - It's just claim submitted. You could say inital claim submitted to distigunish it from an appeal
* Claim in review group - It's complete but in processing for approval
* Claim successfully processed - Claim complete. With 5 it's not really saying why it's not being paid
* Claim denied group - They are all denials
* Claim appeal status group - The status might have an action or require more information
* Claim appeal outcome group - This was split off of the claim appeal status. It's, the appeal, approved or denied
* Action needed group - The claim is incomplete. The all have a deficiency. 
* Action needed and claim denied could be combined
* It's important to determine where the claimant needs to do action
* Card 15 - It's not clear if a denial means it's dead and there is nothing left to do. The language needs to be clarified
* Some submitted ones still require action as well
* Maybe merge 2 and 7 as it doesn't say what is needed
* Card 5 what's the difference from 6?
* I'd time to know the timeframes for each of these process


### Anything else
* Offhand I don't know the distace requirements for travel claims
