# Participant 2, Tuesday, July 9, 12:30 pm -1:30 pm

## **Instructions**

We will be able to get ok transcripts from EnjoyHQ, so focus notes on observations, clearly defined interpretations, and impactful utterances.


* Focus on observations of user behavior. 
    * Example of observation: “Participants clicks on My VA tab, hovers over X header, then back buttons to landing page.” 
    * Example of observation: “Participant says ‘this is annoying, that makes no sense.’ when looking to login to BTSSS.”
* Be clear where notetaker is interpreting or making inferences of what participant is thinking/feeling
    * Example of interpretation: “Based on facial expressions, participant seems to be confused.  Going back and forth between X and Y pages seems like they are looking for something.”
    * Example of interpretation: “Participant easily found link no frustration.” 


## **Context setting and questions - max 5 min**

Q1: After you have submitted a travel claim for reimbursement, how do you know what happens to it? 

* What do you think happens to it?
  * I don't know. I know from the time peroid adn the travel pay people put it into the system and wait for the payemnt.
  * THe facilitators that handle the claims checke it out to make sure the mailage and paperwork is okay and then your get your claim processed.
  * I don't knwo what happens to it afterwards. Weeks out I get paid.
  * I don't know how I could go in and checl. No one tells you that.
  * 


Q2: When you hear the term “claim status”, what do you think of?  
  * THe process or being critiqued. Where it is in the process


* What do you want to know from a claim status? 
  * Where it is at that time period. Right now you are blindsided. When I first did it it was a milabox or a kiosk and get a printout of a ticket. Everything was in the kiosk and address. Now you put in the mailbox and you don't know what is going on with it.
  * I'd like to know. It seems like a quicker turnaround. Now that it goes through direct deposti you have to mindful. It would be nice if you could get a notification on your phone.

## **Mural exercise**

### Exercise 1: Label definitions 

Note what participants go back and forth on.  What do they debate? What do they change? What reasons for trashing cards do they give?
* User begins labeling...
* Struggeled on Card 7  - Is this a new one? It's confusing. Card 6 and 7 should be together. You're not getting the full amount
* Card 10 - This is redundandt. 9 and 10 should go together
* Card 12 - Seems like this should go before the others.
* Card 16 - User stuggled with a name. Not entitled b/c you were not entitled to the appointment. Like you showed up on the wrong day
* I wouldn't trach anything but some could be combined.
* I wouldn't add anything just combine

### Exercise 2: Grouping

Note what participants go back and forth on.  What groups do they debate? What do they change? What reasons for trashing cards do they give?
* User begins grouping...
* Can I combine words for the grounp. Denial/appeal?
* Grouped with Denial/appeal, approved, and submission, and further information needed
* Cards 9 & 11 would each individual groups. Only partial amount so not approved.  Partial payment and payment cancelled.
* When reviewing and describing user realized they wanted to move some to other groups.
* I think they are all useful
* I think they are all ones I'd want to know more about.
* I'd want to get notifications like you do with appointments.
* I'd want to hear when I submitted, status breakdown, and when it's submitted to your bank.
* It's kind of a combination of ones that I'd want to know about
* Maybe add that they saw that I was at an appointment but didn't submit a claim. i don't think they'd do that.
* A lot of folks didn't know about travel. You're entitled to it but if it's too late then you dont' get it.

### Anything else?
* They ask you think that it seems they should know. Like how much tolls cost. It should be automatic
* I want to know that if you can do an appeal for a time period you missed? Like over a year ago or more. A friend missed out on over 15 years of travel pay by not knowing about it.
* I'd want to know how long it'll take to be processed.
* I want them to notify me and not make me go somewhere to check.
