# Participant 14, Monday, July 15, 10:30 am – 11:30 am

## **Instructions**

We will be able to get ok transcripts from EnjoyHQ, so focus notes on observations, clearly defined interpretations, and impactful utterances.


* Focus on observations of user behavior. 
    * Example of observation: “Participants clicks on My VA tab, hovers over X header, then back buttons to landing page.” 
    * Example of observation: “Participant says ‘this is annoying, that makes no sense.’ when looking to login to BTSSS.”
* Be clear where notetaker is interpreting or making inferences of what participant is thinking/feeling
    * Example of interpretation: “Based on facial expressions, participant seems to be confused.  Going back and forth between X and Y pages seems like they are looking for something.”
    * Example of interpretation: “Participant easily found link no frustration.” 


## **Context setting and questions - max 5 min**

Q1: After you have submitted a travel claim for reimbursement, how do you know what happens to it? 
* What do you think happens to it?
   * There was a time I should have but filled but didn't
   * It would go to Travl or Fisncal and someone would put you down as a vendor


Q2: When you hear the term “claim status”, what do you think of?  
* What do you want to know from a claim status?
   * The progress of what the claim is going through
   * I'd want to know what the progress is and if I'll get reimbursed
   * I'd want to know the amount. 100%, 50%... I'd want to know if I was getting hte moeny
   * 


## **Mural exercise**

### Exercise 1: Label definitions 

Note what participants go back and forth on.  What do they debate? What do they change? What reasons for trashing cards do they give?
* User labels cards...
* User debated that many cards needed manual review. IT seems like someone is going to sitdown and look at them. Seems like you are going outside your system
* I would abondon at this point if I saw this - Card 12
* It's hard to get 100 words into 2
* These are coming from an email. I find emails you can get into a lot of trouble if you don't eloaborate
* User goes through trashing exercise...

### Exercise 2: Grouping

Note what participants go back and forth on.  What groups do they debate? What do they change? What reasons for trashing cards do they give?
* User groups cards...
* Submitted
* Approved
* Under review
* Resubmit - There is more than you can do
* Canceled 

### Anything else
* Add information about Claim in the mail or send to the recipiant's bank
