# Participant 19, Wednesday, July 17, 10:30 am – 11:30 am

## **Instructions**

We will be able to get ok transcripts from EnjoyHQ, so focus notes on observations, clearly defined interpretations, and impactful utterances.


* Focus on observations of user behavior. 
    * Example of observation: “Participants clicks on My VA tab, hovers over X header, then back buttons to landing page.” 
    * Example of observation: “Participant says ‘this is annoying, that makes no sense.’ when looking to login to BTSSS.”
* Be clear where notetaker is interpreting or making inferences of what participant is thinking/feeling
    * Example of interpretation: “Based on facial expressions, participant seems to be confused.  Going back and forth between X and Y pages seems like they are looking for something.”
    * Example of interpretation: “Participant easily found link no frustration.” 


## **Context setting and questions - max 5 min**

Q1: After you have submitted a travel claim for reimbursement, how do you know what happens to it? 
* What do you think happens to it?
   * MOst recentiny I got a letter in the mail from travel that informentd me that something was not correct. IT had something to the payout. I get everytine esle so I dont't know what is messed up.
   * I hope it's gett put into a system asn someine is going to review it, it gets processed to be paid


Q2: When you hear the term “claim status”, what do you think of?  
* What do you want to know from a claim status?
   * Letting you know where along the lines of the claims process it is.
   * I want to know... I laugh becasue all I care about is it's been accepted and paid. I guess denied too. Recived is a different word than accepted, that means it's gathered instad of accpeted means it's moving along
   * I don't think I'd care about the input portion


## **Mural exercise**

### Exercise 1: Label definitions 

Note what participants go back and forth on.  What do they debate? What do they change? What reasons for trashing cards do they give?
* User labels cards...
* Under review
* I'd put it in a review status
* Appeal review
* Two ways on approved or payment pending or all together... approved payment pending
* I'm confused. How could you save but not submit. That status would mean saved
* Could not verify services? What services? Do you want me to show you my chart? This is a little touchy. If it shows I have an appointment, the kind of appointmetn, should be good enough. Eitherwise you end up going into HIPAA. It's going to need more inforamtion. Rescended? I'm not sure if that's the right word. It's a denial that needs more information. Denied, needs attention
* As long there is an explanation then it's a denial
* Goes through trash exercise...
* It's less about a trash and more about an 'I don't understand'
* 

### Exercise 2: Grouping

Note what participants go back and forth on.  What groups do they debate? What do they change? What reasons for trashing cards do they give?
* Grouping exercise...
* I already know one of the groups is payment
* Submitted
* More information
* In review
* Archived
* Rejected
* Denied

### Anything else
* 
