# Participant 9, Thursday, July 11, 10:30 am – 11:30 am

## **Instructions**

We will be able to get ok transcripts from EnjoyHQ, so focus notes on observations, clearly defined interpretations, and impactful utterances.


* Focus on observations of user behavior. 
    * Example of observation: “Participants clicks on My VA tab, hovers over X header, then back buttons to landing page.” 
    * Example of observation: “Participant says ‘this is annoying, that makes no sense.’ when looking to login to BTSSS.”
* Be clear where notetaker is interpreting or making inferences of what participant is thinking/feeling
    * Example of interpretation: “Based on facial expressions, participant seems to be confused.  Going back and forth between X and Y pages seems like they are looking for something.”
    * Example of interpretation: “Participant easily found link no frustration.” 


## **Context setting and questions - max 5 min**

Q1: After you have submitted a travel claim for reimbursement, how do you know what happens to it? 
* What do you think happens to it?
   * I usually go on the website and make sure it's accepted. VA.gov I beleive is the site.
   * User checks the site...
   * I assume it would go to Travel reimburement. I assume someone gets it. Either a reimbursement person.
   * They would check i tover and make sure it's right and you went to the appointment
   * Afther the verify they make sure your banking is lined up
   * Hopefully thne you get paid


Q2: When you hear the term “claim status”, what do you think of?  
* What do you want to know from a claim status?
   * That it's sitting somewhere eithe being processed or waiting to be processed
   * I want to know how long it might take or what step it is at
   * How much you'd be expecitng and what step it is on
   * With a lot in the VA it's alot of sit around and wait.
   * It would be nice to see "It's on step two and it takes this long". I assume there is an average estimation of time
   * Walk you through ti step by step. What to expect and if you have problems how to reach out
   * 


## **Mural exercise**

### Exercise 1: Label definitions 

Note what participants go back and forth on.  What do they debate? What do they change? What reasons for trashing cards do they give?
* User labels cards...
* BTSSS - User needs to know what that is. You just told me and I already forgot
* User is very thoughtful and is already noticing similarities for grouping
* User is noticing the separation of claim approval and claim payment and noted this when BTSSS and FSC and even banks
* Card 14 - Unappealble decision
* Card 15 - The doctor didn't back your claim? I have no idea. Reach out to your doctor because your services couldn't be verified after you wnet. Somehting at the doctor's office is off.
* Card 8 - I can't see them doing that
* Card 6 & 10 - I think they are the same. I guess trash 6
* Card 13 & 17 - Seem like the same thing but I wouldn't trash either. I'd group them together
* I'd like to add to see how much gas per mile. The minimum and maximum amout of miles
* What VA facility falls under it
* Phone numners and webisted you can reach ou tfor help

### Exercise 2: Grouping

Note what participants go back and forth on.  What groups do they debate? What do they change? What reasons for trashing cards do they give?
* User groups cards...
* Submitted to reimbursement - this is the claim processing
* Travel clerk dispute
* Finacial error - More on your banking side
* Claim submssion to recieve reimbusrsment - User debated on this group. Left and came back to it and still debated on the naming of it
* You want to break it down dumb but not too dumb. That line exist, like where you don't need an email from every person
* Need to know is recieved it, estimated time (how long)... I'd assume they'd have a rought idea, contact information

### Anything else
* Just being more open about it. The prices and timelines.
