# Participant 5, Wednesday, July 10, 10:30 am – 11:30 am

## **Instructions**

We will be able to get ok transcripts from EnjoyHQ, so focus notes on observations, clearly defined interpretations, and impactful utterances.


* Focus on observations of user behavior. 
    * Example of observation: “Participants clicks on My VA tab, hovers over X header, then back buttons to landing page.” 
    * Example of observation: “Participant says ‘this is annoying, that makes no sense.’ when looking to login to BTSSS.”
* Be clear where notetaker is interpreting or making inferences of what participant is thinking/feeling
    * Example of interpretation: “Based on facial expressions, participant seems to be confused.  Going back and forth between X and Y pages seems like they are looking for something.”
    * Example of interpretation: “Participant easily found link no frustration.” 


## **Context setting and questions - max 5 min**

Q1: After you have submitted a travel claim for reimbursement, how do you know what happens to it? 

* What do you think happens to it?
  * At the campus that I go to about 15 miles away. After an appointment I'd go down tot he Travle officd and fill out a paper form and give it to the clerk and they put it in file and they say "youll get it in acouple of week". I've been reminburesd and not reimbured. It's negligible but it's something.
  * Once I submit my paper clim I don't know what's happening to it
  * TO my knowldge it's still paper and pencil.
  * I assume it goes on to someones desk and a person goes through it and plugs it in. Then somehow a check gets released.
  * 

Q2: When you hear the term “claim status”, what do you think of?  

* What do you want to know from a claim status?
  * If I'm checking a stauts I get "pending"
  * THere is not ETA
  * I want to know a timeline, even if it's worst case. Some ETA. You'll get it when you get it is a common theme


## **Mural exercise**

### Exercise 1: Label definitions 

Note what participants go back and forth on.  What do they debate? What do they change? What reasons for trashing cards do they give?
* I can go online for travel pay?
* User labels cards...
* Card 9 is tricky
* Card 11 took a long time for a response
* Card 14 - Rejected over complete is kinda the finale. You won't be able to appeal.
* Card 16 - Took a bit more thought
* Card 17 - Conflated legibility and eligibility
* Spent a lot of time on whether to trash card 9 but left it
* I'm confused on card 10. Why did I put partial claim paid? I would trash 10
* 13 & 15 seem redundant. Probably take out 13 b/c it's more wordy.
* I'd add Claim approved; payment pending.

### Exercise 2: Grouping

Note what participants go back and forth on.  What groups do they debate? What do they change? What reasons for trashing cards do they give?
* User creates groups...
  * Submssion of claim - Simply submit the claim
  * Payment approved - Getting paid. You followed the process and got the checkmarks so now you get paid
  * Payment denied - No money. Didn't follow the process. Adult version of Candyland
  * Claim in review - Review status. Someone needs to cross the Ts and dot the Is.
  * Additional info needed - More information. Something that was missed that is required like an address or eve a zipcode. Did you drive on your own, etc...
* Puts cards in groups...
* I wouldn't trash or add any cards (groups)
* I care the most about knowing payment approved. I'm assuming I'd get confirmation of submission. But ultimately you are tryin to get paid.

### Anything else
* 
