# Participant 15, Monday, July 15, 3:30 pm – 4:30 pm

## **Instructions**

We will be able to get ok transcripts from EnjoyHQ, so focus notes on observations, clearly defined interpretations, and impactful utterances.


* Focus on observations of user behavior. 
    * Example of observation: “Participants clicks on My VA tab, hovers over X header, then back buttons to landing page.” 
    * Example of observation: “Participant says ‘this is annoying, that makes no sense.’ when looking to login to BTSSS.”
* Be clear where notetaker is interpreting or making inferences of what participant is thinking/feeling
    * Example of interpretation: “Based on facial expressions, participant seems to be confused.  Going back and forth between X and Y pages seems like they are looking for something.”
    * Example of interpretation: “Participant easily found link no frustration.” 


## **Context setting and questions - max 5 min**

Q1: After you have submitted a travel claim for reimbursement, how do you know what happens to it? 
* What do you think happens to it?
   * At some point miney shows up in my account and that's it.
   * I stopped using the website. It's too convoluted... and I was a programmer.
   * I had to use it so often, I loved using the kiosk, that was the perfect system. I didn't have to think about it.
   * Wiht paper copys one I had it off, I don't think about
   * I'm sure someone has got it in the had and has to verify I had the appointment and attendting and sent off to payroll.


Q2: When you hear the term “claim status”, what do you think of?  
* What do you want to know from a claim status?
   * That usally something that's put up on the page that syas "we'll ge to tit when we get to it" They are working on it
   * I want to know why some were denied based on not being to be verified of a community appointment
   * I want to know when I'm submitting but I know we are working at the speed of govenment so three work days would be great. Someone should have looked at the form by then.
   * If something is missing what is missing


## **Mural exercise**

### Exercise 1: Label definitions 

Note what participants go back and forth on.  What do they debate? What do they change? What reasons for trashing cards do they give?
* User labels cards...
* Card 14 - Rejected. We'd need to explain why an appeal is not available.
* Card 17 - This should not even be allowed to be accepted
* User trashes cards

### Exercise 2: Grouping

Note what participants go back and forth on.  What groups do they debate? What do they change? What reasons for trashing cards do they give?
* Use groups cards...
* Submitted
* Approved/payment pending
* Additional information/misc information/paid but something else needs to happen
* Denial actions/reasons
* Incomplete reasons
* 

### Anything else
* Kiosk — I didn't understand why the system had to go away. I saw lots of people using it. It made things simple enough to make it more than berable. It made our lives easier. All these pages (holds up paper packet) is what I had to do online and it's what I had to do when the kiosk was replaced. I made my own form to print off a paper copy.
* Appointmets in one place but surgery in another place
* 
* 
