# Participant 20, Wednesday, July 17, 4:30 pm – 5:30 pm

## **Instructions**

We will be able to get ok transcripts from EnjoyHQ, so focus notes on observations, clearly defined interpretations, and impactful utterances.


* Focus on observations of user behavior. 
    * Example of observation: “Participants clicks on My VA tab, hovers over X header, then back buttons to landing page.” 
    * Example of observation: “Participant says ‘this is annoying, that makes no sense.’ when looking to login to BTSSS.”
* Be clear where notetaker is interpreting or making inferences of what participant is thinking/feeling
    * Example of interpretation: “Based on facial expressions, participant seems to be confused.  Going back and forth between X and Y pages seems like they are looking for something.”
    * Example of interpretation: “Participant easily found link no frustration.” 


## **Context setting and questions - max 5 min**

Q1: After you have submitted a travel claim for reimbursement, how do you know what happens to it? 
* What do you think happens to it?
   * THat's a great question. I would imagie it owuld go to someone locally and get approved (although mine never do) and then get approved
   * It has me selct my route and it takes me back to my claim overview and says 0 reimbursement
   * I submit and then someoen locally process and approves


Q2: When you hear the term “claim status”, what do you think of?  
* What do you want to know from a claim status?
   * Where the payment is at
   * It would be nice to know where it is at in the process. Not submitted, pending Va action, apporved, not paid, and then paid
   * I don't hear anyting after I submit
   * It would be nice to talk to someone


## **Mural exercise**

### Exercise 1: Label definitions 

Note what participants go back and forth on.  What do they debate? What do they change? What reasons for trashing cards do they give?
* User labels cards...
* Cards 8 - Not sure what I would put there... manual review
* Card 11 - If the clam is cancelled does that meand it is complete?
* Card 13 - Is this a final status becasue it's archived?
* Card 17 - How is this different than card 13?
* Trash card exercise...
* Trash 3 - It doesn't matter if it's a manaul or automated review
* Not sure card 13 is important becasue if it's submitted it's assumed there is some sort of expense. I'm just not sure I canre about the archive. I'm on the fense about that one.

### Exercise 2: Grouping

Note what participants go back and forth on.  What groups do they debate? What do they change? What reasons for trashing cards do they give?
* User groups cards...
* Denied - anytime the claim is insuffcient or ineligible
* Claim review - there is addiitonal action to be taken, not nessisacilty by the net but for the process
* Submission/application - anything on or before submssion
* Approved - anything that has been approved and is waiting on the next step or paid
* I care the most abot appealed, denied, adn submitted

### Anything else
* THe only thing I would share in my experience even just identifying the travel clerk or getting a hold of them if BTSS had a directory or shared inboxwhen veterans have denial after denial.
* Getting a hold of some one that can help you that knows the process
