# Participant 18, Wednesday, July 17, 12pm - 1pm est

## **Instructions**

We will be able to get ok transcripts from EnjoyHQ, so focus notes on observations, clearly defined interpretations, and impactful utterances.


* Focus on observations of user behavior. 
    * Example of observation: “Participants clicks on My VA tab, hovers over X header, then back buttons to landing page.” 
    * Example of observation: “Participant says ‘this is annoying, that makes no sense.’ when looking to login to BTSSS.”
* Be clear where notetaker is interpreting or making inferences of what participant is thinking/feeling
    * Example of interpretation: “Based on facial expressions, participant seems to be confused.  Going back and forth between X and Y pages seems like they are looking for something.”
    * Example of interpretation: “Participant easily found link no frustration.” 


## **Context setting and questions - max 5 min**

Q1: After you have submitted a travel claim for reimbursement, how do you know what happens to it? 
* What do you think happens to it?
   * I backed on them becaouse the VA started to make them more complicated
   * It was hard to find the right location and was denied
   * Normally I'd know becasue I'd just wait for it to show up in my bank account
   * I know it has to go through a process to where people would be evaluating it
   * They review adn deny after looking at the details of your appointment


Q2: When you hear the term “claim status”, what do you think of?  
* What do you want to know from a claim status?
   * The process that it is in in the moment. From applying to recieving
   * I want to know where my money is at.
   * If it's been denied or when it is going to be paidout
   * If it's been accepted or submitted


## **Mural exercise**

### Exercise 1: Label definitions 

Note what participants go back and forth on.  What do they debate? What do they change? What reasons for trashing cards do they give?
* Labels cards...
* Saved? I don't know that one seems odd
* Contact your finacial instution? I thought that because of FSC
* THat's the one I see often becasue of the wrong facility that isn't in the system
* Trash items...
* Card 4 - If someones is reviewing it we don't really car about that. Just where the money is at
* Card 7 & 9 could just be combined because they are just waiting ont he money
* Get rid of 13 & 14 b/c they are extra and wouldn't understadn them. It's too much extra

### Exercise 2: Grouping

Note what participants go back and forth on.  What groups do they debate? What do they change? What reasons for trashing cards do they give?
* Groups cards...
* More info requested - The Veteran has more work to do
* Claim denied - As of tha tmomemtn the claim is denied why it was denied ... hopefully
* The others would stand on their own
* Claim submitted - Notheng left for the Veteran to do
* Appeal in process - Veteran has provided information, denied and appealed
* Payment pending - Your payment is pending
* Claim paid - Your claim has been paid out
* This is the problem. Look at all these claims denied over minimal things
* Saved - THe vetean has started the claim ut hasn't finished it
* Veterans only car about the payment

### Anything else
* The abreviations are challenging. Especially on a mobile phone. More abbrviations for various things and we don't undersand what thye are and make it more complicated 
