# Participant 23, Friday, July 19, 1:30 - 2:30pm est

## **Instructions**

We will be able to get ok transcripts from EnjoyHQ, so focus notes on observations, clearly defined interpretations, and impactful utterances.


* Focus on observations of user behavior. 
    * Example of observation: “Participants clicks on My VA tab, hovers over X header, then back buttons to landing page.” 
    * Example of observation: “Participant says ‘this is annoying, that makes no sense.’ when looking to login to BTSSS.”
* Be clear where notetaker is interpreting or making inferences of what participant is thinking/feeling
    * Example of interpretation: “Based on facial expressions, participant seems to be confused.  Going back and forth between X and Y pages seems like they are looking for something.”
    * Example of interpretation: “Participant easily found link no frustration.” 


## **Context setting and questions - max 5 min**

Q1: After you have submitted a travel claim for reimbursement, how do you know what happens to it? 
* What do you think happens to it?
   * There is a webstie to go to to see the status
   * I would think it goes to an office where a person reviews it and if I'm eligible and it approved or denied and I can appeal it


Q2: When you hear the term “claim status”, what do you think of?  
* What do you want to know from a claim status?
   * The status could be the current status that it is in
   * I've gone to he website adn I'd see approved or whatever the claim is
   * During COVID it took a very long time
   * Insead of going to website it would be nice if the meassage wsa sent to me
   * I'm not interested in and specific status at this time. At this time I no longer get approved but now that i'm on SSD (social security) I'm not longer eligible
   * If they were pending or denied you would get a letter. Sometimes it would make it apperar that you didn't show up for the vist even though I was.
   * Connection and technical issues... cancelled the meeting


## **Mural exercise**

### Exercise 1: Label definitions 

Note what participants go back and forth on.  What do they debate? What do they change? What reasons for trashing cards do they give?
* 

### Exercise 2: Grouping

Note what participants go back and forth on.  What groups do they debate? What do they change? What reasons for trashing cards do they give?
* 

### Anything else
* 
