**Note Taking Template for Caregiver MVP Usability Study**
=============================================

Test 1, Jan. 15, 2020, 1:30 p.m.

Intro
-----

**Moderator:** Thank you so much for joining us. My name is Shawna and I also
have some colleagues on the line observing and taking notes. Today, the plan is
that we’re going to be talking about federal benefits that are provided to
family members or caregivers of disabled veterans.

OK? Awesome.

Before we start, I just want to mention a few things:

-   This entire session will be about 45 minutes. I want to be sure not to keep
    you longer, so I may occasionally prompt you to maybe, like, speed things
    up, or move to a different question.

-   In this session, we really want to hear your honest opinions. We are not
    testing your ability at all. We want to improve these tools to make
    Veterans’ lives better. I’m not the designer or the creator of any of this
    stuff; I’m not going to be offended by any views that you express, and I
    welcome your feedback.

-   You'll be interacting with a prototypes, which kind of looks like a website
    but it won’t be an actual website. Certain things will be clickable, certain
    things won’t.

-   If you could talk aloud as you are going through this, it really helps me.
    For example, if you were doing a Google search while talking aloud you might
    say, “OK, now I’m going to search for cats. Oh, here’s a list of cats. This
    looks interesting.” Anything like that – just talking aloud with whatever
    you’re thinking helps me understand your thought processes.

**Caregiver:** Sure.

**Moderator:** Awesome. If for any reason you want to stop the session, or if
you’re uncomfortable, please let me know. Obviously, we’re not making you do
this. And I think that’s all the intro stuff. Are you comfortable if I record
this as well? It’s just for internal purposes, it won’t be shared with anyone
else. All personal data will be stripped.

**Caregiver:** Sure, no problem.

**Moderator:** I’m going to start recording. So now, we are recording. So now,
just to have it on the recording, can you confirm with me again that you’re OK
with me recording the session?

**Caregiver:** No problem.

Warm-up Questions 
------------------

**Moderator:** Great, thank you. OK. Can you tell me a little about yourself?
Maybe where you are, what branch of service you served in?

**Caregiver:** Sure. So, I’m from Tampa, Florida, and I’m actually applying as a
caregiver for a family member who’s a veteran, so I can receive benefits for
taking care of him because it takes up a large portion of my time and it
interferes with my income because it take so much time that I have to take time
off from work. So I heard about this, you know, program so I wanted to apply for
benefits to see if I fit the criteria.

**Moderator:** So it sounds as if you currently don’t get benefits but you’re
interested in applying. And you currently live with your veteran?

**Caregiver:** Um, I don’t, but I would plan, if I got approved, we would move
(unintelligible).

**Moderator:** OK. And do you receive any benefits at all from the VA currently?

**Caregiver:** I do not.

**Moderator:** OK. Um, and how do you, what do you know about potential benefits
you can receive?

**Caregiver:** Um, all I know is, you know, based off of how much I help the
Veteran and whether or not I live with them I could, you know, receive some
income as a possible benefit from this program.

**Moderator:** Great. So what I’m going to do is I’m going to be sending you a
couple of links and I’m going to ask you if you can actually share your screen,
if you’re OK with that?

**Caregiver:** Sure

**Moderator:** So I’m going to send you the links. So, this is just the Vigo’s
homepage. I’m not sure if you’ve been there. I’m going to send it in the chat,
so let me know if you have any issues with getting that.

**Caregiver:** Perfect. Opening the link now. And I’m going to go ahead and
share my screen.

**Moderator:** Great. Thank you. This usually takes a long time (laughter).

**Caregiver:** Yeah.

**Moderator:** Great, I can see your screen. That’s perfect.

First Task: [Determining preferred location for Caregiver application]
----------------------------------------------------------------------


**Moderator:** I’m going to ask you a couple of questions and you can interact
with the site. The question here is, "Let's say you heard about a way you could
receive benefits from the VA as a caregiver for a Veteran, and that you could
apply online at VA.gov. You have navigated to VA.gov and now want to find that
application. Can you show us how you might do that? Where you might go?

**Caregiver:** Sure. Um, so the first thing that pulls my eye is this red popup
overlaid button. Right after that my eye goes down here to the nest of menus. So
I quickly open one of these up and look at what’s in there and see if anything
applies to me. I do see right here, “family member benefits” which could be it,
but also I don’t have to be a family member from what I’ve heard, so maybe it is
not. “Family and caregiver health benefits.” That sounds like it could be pretty
spot on, so I’ll go ahead and take a quick look at this. Health care for
dependents, spouses and family caregivers – slowly scanning to see if I can find
anything that relates to me. Um … caregivers. Program of Comprehensive
Assistance for Family Caregivers – all right … 9/11 … All right, this looks
pretty close to what I’m looking for. I’m going to dive into this.

The Program of Comprehensive Assistance for Family Caregivers. OK. … Quickly
reading over to make sure that this is what I wanted … mm hmm … OK. Yeah, now
that I’ve read that blue bubble, it looks like this is exactly what I was
looking for, what benefits I can get with this program.

**Moderator:** OK, great. I think that’s perfect.

Second Task: [First impressions / thoughts] 
--------------------------------------------

**Moderator:** OK, I’m going to bring you to a different screen, so now I’m
going to send you a different link and you can keep sharing your screen. OK, so
if you can go ahead and go to that one, and don’t actually go ahead and click on
anything once it loads, I’ll just ask you to look.

**Caregiver:** Sure.

**Moderator:** You can see it looks pretty similar to that page we were just on.

**Caregiver:** It sure does.

**Moderator:** Let’s say you did that whole search that you just went through
and you were on that page and that page now looks like this. So, I’d like for
you to scroll through a little like you were going to do with the other page,
and let me know your first impressions and what you focus on first in terms of
checking if you’re eligible, and what parts are useful, and stuff like that.

**Caregiver:** Sure. The first thing I notice is that these first two bubbles
look pretty much the same, with the exception of the content. I recall this
bubble being helpful, so I’m going to start with that one. … I don’t think I was
supposed to click on that…

**Moderator:** That’s fine.

**Caregiver:** That was different so I wanted to see what it did.

**Moderator:** No, you can definitely click on anything you would click on.

**Caregiver:** I like how it basically shows me the same information, but if I
want more information I can quickly expand on that. I think that’s pretty nice.
So, um, for the most part it seems like it has the same intro about the program
and it looks like it has quite a bit more down here, from what I recall from the
last page right away. Cool. I also liked how it tells me everything that I need
before I even start the form so I don’t have to guess and gather documents. It’s
all up front. It tells me the application process, who I can contact if I have
any issues, and as well as the review process, which before just now I didn’t
know anything about.

**Moderator:** What are you looking at when you are seeing the review process?

**Caregiver:** The first thing I see, is I didn’t realize that there would be
someone to visit my house? So off the bat, that’s glaring to me. But that’s all
right. It’s not the biggest deal, I’m also curious here because we don’t
currently live together, are they going to my house, or their house? And are
they just wanting to talk to me, or are they coming to my house to look for
health things to see if I have guardrails in the shower because they have
trouble standing sometimes. That kind of stuff. So I’m just kind of curious off
the bat what would be included in that, or if they just want to talk to me in
person And also, we’ll both be moving to a new location if we get approved, and
I don’t know with the new location how much that matters.

And caregiver training, that’s super-cool because I’ve never been a caregiver
before, so it would be kind of cool to have formal training so I know exactly
what to do when something goes wrong and I just don’t panic and call 911. Well,
I’d call them, but I’d have more resources at my disposal. At our disposal.

**Moderator:** Can you tell me if you are eligible for benefits based on this
page?

**Caregiver:** On the first page, I noticed right away that it was mentioning
9/11 and his service was after that, so I wasn’t sure. But I don’t see anything
here about that, so we could possibly be eligible. Does it go over what the
requirements are? “As a primary caregiver you may receive (unintelligible) a
benefit” – OK, that was on the last page. Yeah, that’s a good question. Quickly
scanning over, and I don’t see anything disqualifying me. But I also feel like
there could be more information. Like, this stuff, I get that. “Learn more about
primary caregiver” – maybe this will have it? Um, OK, here we go.

So, to me, I like the dropdowns and I like it up here because it’s more
interactive and it quickly expanded. I feel like this is very required
information and not optional and it was kind of weird to me in layout purposes.

**Moderator:** The way you expanded it, for a second, you were looking down at
the part even below the expansion. Can you tell me what happened there?

**Caregiver:** Yeah. That’s a good eye. I didn’t even notice that until you
mentioned it. So I’m not sure how the act was going to be but it felt very
abrupt. Immediately it felt like a page jump so I went down, you know, like I
guess I over-corrected based on how expanded down because it felt so abrupt. So
maybe if it was smoother there my eyes wouldn’t have gone down so far. Does that
make sense?

**Moderator:** Yeah, that makes sense. It sounds like it was a little unclear.

**Caregiver:** Yeah. It kind of popped out at me. I didn’t get the feeling up
here, and I’m not sure why, maybe it’s because this has a gray border around it,
so I know this is as far as it could go. While that is, like it could be down
here, you know. But now that I look at it, I do like this blue bar because it
shows me exactly. It groups it, per se. At first that wasn’t super apparent.

**Moderator:** OK, awesome. It sounds, to sum up this particular part, like this
primary caregiver section is really important and you feel like maybe
(intelligible) it might be a better idea.

**Caregiver:** Yeah, I feel like it should almost be like in this blue box, and
this blue box should be all of the requirements from the veteran’s side and the
caregiver’s side because I understand you can’t have (unintelligible) primary
caregiver.

**Moderator:** Great point.

**Caregiver:** While the secondary caregiver could be optional. You may or may
not.

**Moderator:** Well, thank you so much, that was super helpful.

Third Task: [Filling out the form] 
-----------------------------------

**Moderator:** So now we’re going to move on a little. Now let's say you have
decided, or you’re pretty sure you have decided that you are eligible, and
you've gained enough confidence that you’re wanting to actually apply. So why
don’t you go ahead and show me what you would do to apply and just go through
the application process and in that process, I might be helping or asking
questions, but for the most part if you could just remember to continue
articulating what you are thinking as you go through, that would be really
helpful.

**Caregiver:** Sure. Right off the bat, I notice there’s “sign in to put in your
application,” but I’ve never applied for VA benefits and I’ve never been on this
website before so I’m just going to go ahead and do the application without
signing in. It would be kind of cool, now that I’m thinking about it, but I
notice that when I checkout at some other websites I can go and fill in all this
information and then at the end it can be optional about whether to create an
account because I do remember there’s a process. So when I come back and do it
all at once to turn in the information

**Moderator:** What happened there, sorry, when you clicked there, just to make
it clear, in these prototypes the fields are not interactive, and we fill in the
fields for you. But if you could talk about these fields as you look over them,
such as would you have this information, would you have to back and find it, and
that kind of thing.

**Caregiver:** Understood. So, I, uh, this family member is my cousin. We’re
close, I know him pretty well, but I don’t know his Social. So, the first page,
I did see that I would need to know some stuff, so I would imagine that I would
get all my ducks in a row before I filled this out. So, I would say pretty
confidently I would have this information on hand. But he has a hard time
sitting in a chair for a long period of time, so I probably would just do it for
him sitting next to him.

So, all this information is pre-filled out, all very generic information. His
address, I do know his address off the top of my head, right now I go there
daily to help him out. I call him, he doesn’t have a home phone, so his primary
would be his cell phone, I have that offhand as well. I don’t know his email,
but it’s pretty simple, I can find that pretty easily with the other
information. Medical center or clinic – yeah, I’ve actually never been to his
doctor’s office, so I’ll have to ask him about that as well. But this seems
pretty straightforward. Go ahead and hit continue.

**Moderator:** If you want to click on one of the fields first? I think the top
field, it will

**Caregiver:** Oh, I see, like the last one.

**Moderator:** Yeah. And the medical center or clinic part, you said you might
not know that. Would you mind exploring that a little and let me know your
thoughts? I think those are clickable.

**Caregiver:** Yeah, so, I’ve taken care of him for about a month now. I have
been going to his house now, helping him out, getting him changed, showered,
because he has a hard time sitting or standing for long periods of time. His mom
takes him, drives him to the VA clinic for his appointments because I’m trying
to work at the same time. I don’t take time out of the middle of my day; I
usually go at the end of the day to help him shower and do the heavy lifting
that his mom can’t do.

**Moderator:** Yeah.

**Caregiver:** I’m just not familiar with it off the top of my head, she might
have mentioned it to me….

**Moderator:** You had asked him where he would go, and I forget if that was in
our initial page of what we would ask…

**Caregiver:** I don’t recall.

**Moderator:** I guess that’s a note for us, that you would have to ask him for
that data, so we should maybe warn you about that before we start.

**Caregiver:** For sure. And in my experience people are very particular about
the doctors that they see, and if he’s seen him for a while, he would definitely
prefer that person. Okey-doke, do I click next now?

**Moderator:** I think click into space. I was just showing you what it looked
like so you can give feedback. Go ahead.

**Caregiver:** So yeah, it’s pretty cool that as I click the state that it
filters down into the possible locations. But it does seem abrupt that we’re
going from state to clinic. If we could narrow that down by possibly a zip code,
we live in the same zip code, then I might be able to guess better. Especially
if there’s only one available, otherwise I would have to ask him what his
preference is. But if there is only one available in our zip code then I would
feel pretty confident that’s the one we would be going to.

And hopefully as the process continues and if I wasn’t in a crunch, if I just
put one in the zip code, I could update it in the future. But I don’t know if
that’s a possibility at this point.

Now to caregiver and family member information. OK. OK, so it looks good. The
first thing I noticed were these two things that are here. It does seem awkward
that the secondary caregiver is here but not mentioned on this screen.

**Moderator:** There’s no material related to the secondary caregiver?

**Caregiver:** Exactly. And from my experience last time, kind of what you said
with my eye going way down, I feel like it could be better if there wasn’t two
because they wouldn’t be stacking, and I wouldn’t be confused about which one I
should be looking for. It’s not the end of the world.

Once again, there’s pretty important information, all this I’ve seen before. I
don’t mind seeing it again because it’s not in the way as much. The information
is pretty straightforward, I know all this off the top of my head. I can fill
this out super-quickly.

Go to the next. I know my address, all this stuff. It’s super-straightforward
stuff that I’ve filled out a million times on websites, especially government
websites like filling out taxes.

I’m not in Medicaid or Medicare or TRICARE. I have no idea what this is. I’ve
never seen this before. Maybe this will tell me; it does, cool. I felt like this
is a great use of this dropdown feature.

**Moderator:** Cool.

**Caregiver:** I am covered by regular insurance; I get regular insurance at
work. It gives me the option to say yes and enter the name. Cool and
straightforward.

OK. I don’t remember this being down here. Maybe I’m crazy, but I don’t remember
this being down here, but I see it now.

**Moderator:** Yeah, this is actually a second page. There was a first page.

**Caregiver:** Oh, yeah, yeah.

**Moderator:** You’re right, it wasn’t on the bottom of the first page.

**Caregiver:** OK, cool. Secondary caregivers have the same qualifications as
primary. They provide a personal care for veterans and service members and serve
as a backup to the primary caregiver. Cool, so this actually sounds pretty
similar to what his mom’s doing right now. Mostly taking him to doctor’s
appointments and things like that. She’s retired and she already has income, so
it felt more pertinent for me to be primary.

Go next. Umm.

**Moderator:** Do we have a prototype issue there?

**Caregiver:** Looks like it.

**Moderator:** Let me see if I can get you the right page. Hold tight. (Pause)
Sorry it’s taking a few minutes (pause). OK, I’m going to send you the link.
There you go. I think this is the right page. I actually just got a note from my
colleague, let’s see if that’s exactly the right page, I don’t want to give you
the wrong one. OK, I think that’s the one I was going to give you. Yeah, here we
go.

OK, can you just click on that, I just chatted it to you?

**Caregiver:** Mm-hmm.

**Moderator:** There you go. So that’s what you would have landed on, after you
would have clicked, “yes” on secondary caregiver.

**Caregiver:** OK, cool. There’s a bunch of secondary caregiver information. Off
the top of my head, again, I don’t recall if this information was available on
the first page. I wasn’t really thinking about it, to be honest with you. But
once I got into the form and got to secondary caregiver and thinking about his
parent, I know her address, birthday, it’s all pretty straightforward except for
the Social. And maybe I would call her in that situation and get that
information while we are here; otherwise it’s might become a pain. Had I read
that first page I might have been more informed.

**Moderator:** Interesting. OK, thanks, that’s helpful.

**Caregiver:** Entering all the same information that I did, it all looks
exactly the same, pretty straightforward. The role, parent. Cool. There’s not a
third caregiver, so I would say the two of us can just hold it down right now,
go ahead and hit continue.

Cool. This looks super-familiar, I think this form is like other sites, it’s
pretty much information I’ve already filled out. I would probably click on these
to double-check it. I would definitely do this because I’ve heard horror stories
about the VA taking a long time, making changes so I would want to make sure
that everything is perfect before I submitted it. Making sure that I filled out
valid and true information …

**Moderator:** Can you tell me what’s going on with these two boxes and what
your thoughts are?

**Caregiver:** Yeah, I read through this one and it kind of reminds me of terms
of service, but a little more rigid because it’s the government and of course,
you know, fraud would be a problem with this kind of program so I understand why
to put this forward. The veteran’s full name, I mean, type in the name, it looks
pretty familiar, like filling out a loan application online. I think I’ve seen
that before in that context, but it’s just his name, so I would just type it in
with him sitting next to me. Making sure this information is true and accurate
and complete. I mean, I’m trying to find the difference between this
information, typing on the name, and this information. For some reason this
doesn’t seem very clear. That’s the name of the program. I certify and consent
to the individual named in this application to perform personal care services
for me. OK. I, the veteran, being approved as primary or secondary caregivers,
OK. I certify that this information is correct and true to the best of my
knowledge. Cool. That’s kinda what I expected from it, seeing this layout. I
kind of expected that. I certify that the information above is correct and true
to the best of my knowledge, yes, it is true, accurate and complete. What’s the
difference? This seems like its exact same thing.

**Moderator:** I see what you’re saying. Did you have a hesitation about what
information it was referring to? Was it the duplication or were you concerned
about what kind of information it was referring to?

**Caregiver:** I was confused about the me part, where it says primary
caregiver.

**Moderator:** OK, I understand.

**Caregiver:** I said, “What, I’m primary caregiver.” OK, but he’s filling the
form out. And I read this, and it felt redundant and I didn’t even think twice
about it.

Right after that I noticed there is more information here. Let’s see why. OK, so
they added more information about the housing situation, which I thought we
talked about earlier.

**Moderator:** It looks like and let me check our timing to make sure I’m not
keeping you too late. Yeah, it looks like we have about 10 minutes. So, I’m
wondering if you can just quickly give me your overall impressions of, what is
your overall expectation about filling out these signature boxes with you, the
veteran, and the veteran’s mom? What would you be doing at this point?

**Caregiver:** This seems like a big deal for me, so I would hesitate to fill
this out. For this third one, we’re acquaintances, she’s my aunt. We talk, but I
don’t feel comfortable enough for me to sign her name. So, I might call her to
confirm this information and then say, “Hey, would it be OK if I signed your
name really quick?” and confirm these things, especially since I had to call her
to get answers. I would want to confirm it here. That was the last page so I
could possibly still be on the phone with her but if she was very busy then its’
very possible that she couldn’t be. So maybe that should probably be on the
front page as well.

**Moderator:** OK. Could you continue, then?

**Caregiver:** One thing that I did notice up here, really quick, when I was
scanning this, was this paragraph had a lot of words that like, were harsh. Like
I see, “revoke,” “fail,” and immediately I’m thinking about getting money from
the government. I know one year I accidentally made a mistake filing my own
taxes and I the IRS was sending me nasty letters in the mail saying they are
going to charge me a bunch of interest. This kinds of reminds me of that, so I’m
like, “Man, do I even want to accept this money from the government in the first
place,” especially if I have to go down to part-time at my job and lose half of
my income. It gives me a feeling of fear in this paragraph. Could it be expanded
on, like why it would be revoked? Do they just pull it away? I don’t know. And
at this point I don’t necessarily understand what the program is for, either. I
know it’s for me to help him, but I’m not sure. The revoke thing makes me
nervous. Maybe there could be an expandable column here about expectations or a
link somewhere else that’s more digestible. I would definitely have questions
when they contact me.

This seems pretty straightforward. There’s nothing huge here that pops out at me
like the other one. Last page, it gives me who I’m submitting it for, and what’s
next. Yeah, especially after the last page, with revoke and stuff, I might call
them right now, if I have time. It’s also reassuring that they’ll contact me
within a week. That seems pretty quick. And they also give me the phone numbers
so I can be proactive with them as well, which is pretty nice.

And this is just a reiteration of what I saw on the first page, it’s pretty
straightforward, I definitely think I’ll remember it now, with these steps

Fourth Task: [understanding next steps] 
----------------------------------------

**Moderator:** Thank you so much. You can stop sharing your screen. So now that
you’ve gone through the form and the whole process, what do you think are the
next steps in the process? What are your expectations?

**Caregiver:** So, I know they’re supposed to call me within a week, I know
they’re going to want a home care visit, and I know upon approval I could
receive caregiver training, possible income and some other resources that could
help me help a Veteran. Although at this point, I have a lot of questions about
what expectations are in the program and how we move forward in the long term.
Because at this point, he has neurological issues and it could be a long-term
thing. I just don’t know how this would pan out in the long term. That’s my main
concern at this point.

**Moderator:** It sounds like you may have some further questions around like,
“How long will these benefits last?” or you know, what kind of changes you’ll
have to make with your job and your circumstance.

**Caregiver:** I’m going to have to move in with him, too, which will mean
increased rent and increased risk. So, at this point I’m also weighing the
cost-benefit. Is this for me? Maybe it might be better to switch the mother to
primary and me to secondary. I’m just not sure at this point.

Post-Task Interview 
-------------------------------

**Moderator:** So, what do you think is the hardest part of the whole process
that you just went through?

**Caregiver:** Probably the secondary caregiver information because I’m working
with the Veteran and we have a relationship, but I might not know about the
secondary caregiver’s information.

**Moderator:** You’re saying the hardest part is probably the secondary
caregiver information and filling that out?

**Caregiver:** Yes, because I don’t have that information as readily as I have
my own information.

**Moderator:** And what parts do you think worked well?

**Caregiver:** I feel like the intro page. If I really took my time and delved
deep, it was really comprehensive, except for the expectations for the program.
That was the only thing that I thought wasn’t there. Everything else, for the
most part, I felt like the bases were covered. That was pretty nice. Once again,
some of the information in dropdowns could have been missed if I wasn’t
cautious. If I was rushed, I definitely would have missed it.

**Moderator:** OK, I’m going to quickly share my screen and show you the paper
form. This is the form that people currently fill out and in the purpose of this
project, we’re testing moving this form onto VA.gov. Right now, it’s only a
paper form. So, I have the paper form to show you, and I’d like to get your
quick thoughts on if you had the option to fill out the online form instead of
the paper form, which you would prefer and why? So, I’m going to share.

**Caregiver:** The first thing that I notice right off the bat, is there’s a lot
of content on this first page that’s just thrown at me. I feel like in this
scenario I would be more likely to scan than to read every line.

I kinda like this, and I don’t feel like this was captured in the online. I
don’t remember “if an individual is a … and … and … then.” It’s a cool logic
sequence that ties together some pieces of information that I think is kind of
cool, if that makes sense.

I like information that’s kind of spewed out. I probably would just scan over
what applies to me and move on. I definitely would never read this small fine
print. If I had some downtime, I might read it, but I would probably just scan
over it, those two boxes up there.

This is pretty straightforward, its kind of continues. And then this, it’s very
similar to the last page, they’re kind of thrown the flow. Remember when I had
to, on the next page, I didn’t realize I would have to sign for the secondary
caregiver? It was kind of nice that it was on the same page, so I would know as
a fact that while I’m on the phone with her that I could include that in the
conversation and not make it a separate

**Moderator:** So, you like that the signature part is next.

**Caregiver:** Right. Theirs is less likelihood of me hanging up and having to
call her back again a second time. But that’s just an idea. If it can have more
fields, yeah, all the same fields and just one more. I didn’t see this one
because there wasn’t a third person taking care of him, but I kind of like that
it doesn’t show it to me unless I need it.

For the most part it seems like it’s the same, but there’s a lot more
information with higher density. And some of the language on the online form
felt very easy to read, and then on the last part it felt very legal. So, I had
a hard time reading the last one, but compared to the information that seemed
more readable.

**Moderator:** Do you have thoughts on which you would do if you were given a
choice? Or would you want a merged version?

**Caregiver:** I probably wouldn’t want that; it would be too many moving parts
in different places. As a younger person I would probably opt for the digital
one because the web feels more natural to me and I have horrible handwriting and
God forbid horrible handwriting gets passed down to the government. It feels
like this would get done quicker and not get lost or shuffled through papers
than the paper one. I’ve lost papers before, I’m sure you have as well. It would
suck to lose something that, one, was hard to collect, and two, has personal
information. This, there’s no real to losing it. The only risk I see is not
being able to sign in. If I lose the information or I accidentally hit refresh
and the information gets cleared. Hopefully there’s a prompt that doesn’t make
that an instantaneous thing. Other than that, the digital one seems more
natural.

**Moderator:** Sounds like the digital one, but maybe with some of the changes
we’ve gone through during the session.

Thank You and Closing 
----------------------

**Moderator:** Well thank you so much, we’re a few minutes past time but we
really appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us. Your
feedback was really helpful to make sure this works for Veterans.

I think that’s it, unless there are any last thoughts you want to get across to
the team.

**Caregiver:** No, not at all. I feel like we covered everything pretty
comprehensively.

