Note Taking for Caregiver MVP Usability Study
=============================================

P1, Jan. 16, 2020, noon ET.

Intro
-----

**Moderator:** My name’s Shawna, thanks so much for joining me! I am working
with the VA and I have some colleagues on the line observing and taking notes.
The idea today is that we're going to talk about federal benefits that are
provided to family members or caregivers of disabled veterans.

Is that your understanding as well?

**Caregiver:** Yes.

**Moderator:** Before we start, a few things I want to mention:

-   This entire session should take about 45 minutes. I want to be sure not to
    keep you much longer, so I may occasionally prompt you to change topics
    awkwardly or something like that if we’re going to make it.

-   I want to hear your honest opinions. So, I’m going to be showing you a
    prototype of a form that could potentially be online and I’m going to want
    you to talk about your honest opinions. I’m not the designer of the form and
    we just want to improve these tools for Veterans, so I won’t be offended or
    anything by what you have to say.

-   Like I said, this is going to be a prototype so some things may be
    clickable, and some might not be clickable, so we’ll just work our way
    through that. It’s not an actual site.

-   If for any reason and at any time you want to stop the session, we can, if
    anything is uncomfortable for you, and I think that’s pretty much it.

-   Are you comfortable if I record my screen and audio as we talk today? We are
    recording just for the team so we can come back and listen if we have any
    issues.

**Caregiver:** Yes.

*Start recording.*

**Moderator:** OK, I’ve started recording. And if you’d don’t mind, can you
confirm that you’re OK with the recording on the recording?

**Caregiver:** Yes, I’m fine with you recording.

Warm-up Questions 
------------------

**Moderator:** So, my understanding is that you are a caretaker for a Veteran.
Can you tell me a little more about yourself? Maybe about your Veteran? Where
you’re from?

Caregiver: I’m from Indiana originally, like my husband is. I’ve been his
caregiver for a long time. I knew since he came home from his deployment that
something wasn’t right. He just retired, maybe it’s been seven years since he
retired. I don’t know what else I’m supposed to tell you. What I do?

Moderator: Do you currently live with your husband?

Caregiver: Yes, we live on a farm.

Moderator: And are there any other family members or caregivers helping you take
care of him?

Caregiver: We have a 17-year-old daughter and a 21-year-old son that live in the
house with us as well, and they help with him, too. They know when he’s going
down that rabbit hole in his moods, and they try to do what they can to pull him
out.

Moderator: Are you a full-time caregiver? Do you also work?

Caregiver: I’m in school right now. My classes are online so I’m home with him
most of the time. I would say 90% of the time I’m at home with him.

Moderator: Do you currently receive any benefits from the VA, yourself?

**Caregiver:** I receive the caregiver benefits. He was just made 100% in the
summer, so I get the Chapter 35 benefit as well.

**Moderator:** And how did you find out about the benefit?

**Caregiver:** The caregivers? When he first started going to the VA here in
northwest Indiana, someone mentioned it. We went to the VA center for some
marriage counseling and they are the ones who actually told us about the program
and we kind of just looked into it. And the Chapter 35, my husband knew about it
because his dad is retired Army and he was 100%, so he was able to get a stipend
when he was in college himself.

Moderator: And how long ago did you apply for the caregiver benefits?

**Caregiver:** I think I got on it in the fall of 2016.

**Moderator:** All right, thank you so much.

First Task: [Determining preferred location for Caregiver application]
----------------------------------------------------------------------

**Moderator:** So what we’re going to start with is a couple of documents, so
what I’m going to ask you to do is open a browser, open up VA.gov, and then if
you could share your screen with me and I’ll walk you through.

*\<An extended discussion as the moderator trained the caregiver on how to share
her screen\>*

**Moderator:** The first thing that I’d like you to do, I know that you’ve
already applied for caregiver and everything, but let’s say that you haven’t
done that, and you’ve heard that you’re eligible for caregiver benefits or that
you might be, and that you could apply. Go ahead and show me where you would go
and what you would do to find that application.

**Caregiver:** Oh, my goodness. I am not a computer person.

**Moderator:** Good, this is great. A lot of people are not computer people and
we need to see that experience. And also, if you could talk aloud about what
you’re doing? I’m sorry, I forgot to mention that. Like, “I don’t know where it
is, I’m scrolling.” That helps.

**Caregiver:** I’m going to go into the search box and I’m typing “caregiver
program.” Oh, I got it right away.

**Moderator:** Great. So, you clicked there?

**Caregiver:** OK. And you want me to answer a few questions to find out if I
qualify?

**Moderator:** I think that was actually good. Do you think you found what you
were looking for?

**Caregiver:** Oh, yeah.

Second Task: [First impressions / thoughts] 
--------------------------------------------

**Moderator:** OK, let’s move on to the next screen. What I’m going to do is I’m
going to send you a link and I’ll like you to open this link in your browser.
I’m going to send it over chat.

*\<A brief discussion as the moderator trained the caregiver on where to find
the chat window and the link\>*

**Moderator:** You’ve done the search and you’ve landed on this page. I’d like
for you to look over it and read some things and give me your first impressions
of what you see.

**Caregiver:** I don’t think I’m there yet, am I? Or is this it?

**Moderator:** No, this is it. It looks a lot like the other page that you were
on.

**Caregiver:** I wasn’t sure if it worked or not. And what am I supposed to do,
I’m sorry?

**Moderator:** Just scroll through it as if you were looking for this benefit,
you know, look at it and give me your first impressions, and what you would
click on.

**Caregiver:** It seems like it would be easy to do because it says it will fill
in part of it for you from your account details. Umm, you can save it, that’s
good in case the kids come down and you get distracted. It answers questions
about being eligible for it, what you can actually get from it, the different
trainings they have and stuff like that. I did training a couple of months ago
in Indianapolis, actually. I actually had one in person/

**Moderator:** Interesting.

**Caregiver:** Yeah, it looks like a pretty simple thing to follow here, which
is good for me because I don’t use computers.

**Moderator:** And based on this, can you tell if you are eligible for the
benefits?

**Caregiver:** Umm … I don’t know if it’s changed since I applied for it three
or four years ago. I think from what I’ve heard I have online groups like
support groups and stuff, I lot of people have been denied. It seems like it has
to be physical. It has to be like your husband physically can’t, or your Veteran
can’t, you know, tie their shoes, or they can’t drive, or they can’t bathe
themselves. With my husband, it’s like all, it’s severe PTSD. He does not like
to be by himself; he does horrible if he’s not with me. He’s very dependent on
me. So, I probably, if I had to do this again, honestly, I probably wouldn’t
even qualify for it because he doesn’t have – I mean, he has some back issues
and stuff, but physical ailments? I mean, mental, totally he needs help
mentally. He’s in the psychotrauma program down in Indianapolis. He goes every
two weeks down in Indianapolis.

**Moderator:** So, it sounds like people are saying it may be more physical now,
some of the requirements. What do you think this eligibility, this phrase up
here, is implying? Is it implying that it has to be physical or not?

**Caregiver:** I think more about it’s about physical. It’s important to that …
and I don’t know who comes up with all this stuff, but a lot of this is mental.
And just because our husbands, you can’t see it, we have days where he’s down
that rabbit hole and his mood swings and everything, and it takes everything to
get him out of that place, that dark spot. So, when I read here it is more about
the physical part of it.

**Moderator:** Great. So, let’s move on a little. Let’s say you decided to
apply, what would you do next here?

**Caregiver:** Um, I’d go down here. Start the application down here?

**Moderator:** And would you sign in to start?

**Caregiver:** Probably I would sign it because I would want to know I can save
and come back to it in case I have questions or something. I’m the kind of
person who I would contact whoever or find out or Google it or whatever if I had
questions about it. I would sign in so I would have an account.

**Moderator:** And do you currently have an account, or no?

**Caregiver:** You know what? I probably do, but it’s been three years, so I
don’t know. I probably would have to do that where you recover your password and
that stuff.

**Moderator:** OK, well the button isn’t clickable right now, but if you click
on the link below that we can go forward, pretending that you don’t sign in.

**Caregiver:** You want me to click that?

**Moderator:** Yep.

**Caregiver:** OK.

Third Task: [Filling out the form] 
-----------------------------------

**Moderator:** Let’s move through the form as if you were filling it out. Just
give me your initial thoughts about if you have that data, if you know what to
do to get it and all of that.

**Caregiver:** Um, that page, I have everything.

**Moderator:** OK. And if you want to just click on a box, that will
automatically fill it in as if you were.

**Caregiver:** OK. All right, should I continue?

**Moderator:** All right.

\<pause\>

**Moderator:** Tell me what you’re thinking here, that would be great, about
this form.

**Caregiver:** For me, I have all that stuff.

**Moderator:** OK. What about this name of the VA medical center or clinic? Is
that pretty clear for you?

**Caregiver:** Um, I think is it Benjamin? I know Jesse Brown’s up here in
Chicago, and we switched over to Indianapolis now. Is it Benjamin Harrison
something?

**Moderator:** Are you thinking about a doctor?

**Caregiver:** No, you know what, it’s Roudebush Medical Center in Indianapolis?

**Moderator:** Oh, I don’t know.

**Caregiver:** There are a couple different ones because he goes where the
primary doctor is, and the medicine doctor are in different locations in
Indianapolis.

**Moderator:** Got it. Do would you be able to know which one you would do here?

**Caregiver:** Um, well it says where you receive health care services, so I
think that’s the one on 10th Street. I know the one on 38th Street is run by
Riley’s Hospital, that’s where he goes for therapy, but primary care, I think
he’s in a different location.

**Moderator:** Got it. So, you might be a little confused about which of the
different medical centers to put here.

**Caregiver:** I don’t know if they’re all like that, but in Indiana there are a
couple different places to go.

**Moderator:** Got it. So, what would you do if you were filling out the form?

**Caregiver:** Um, I would probably do that click location to find the VA
facility locations, and if that didn’t work, I would Google it, that’s what I
would do.

**Moderator:** OK. You can go ahead and click into that.

**Caregiver:** The locator?

**Moderator:** The state, the dropdown so you can see what it looks like. I
don’t think the locator works on this prototype. \<pause\> It’s not working?

**Caregiver:** No, it’s not letting me …

**Moderator:** OK. Does the continue button work?

**Caregiver:** I don’t think so.

**Moderator:** Let’s see here. Let me find where you are. \<pause\> Oh, I’m
sorry. Can you scroll up a bit?

**Caregiver:** Yep.

**Moderator:** Oh, I see. Can you click into the address line? There’s a thing
where we are pretending you fill in an address.

**Caregiver:** OK.

**Moderator:** And then, you can move forward again. The idea here is that you
can select a state, and then you can click there again.

**Caregiver:** OK

**Moderator:** And then if you click on the center or clinics, then you would
see the clinics. What do you think of this kind of layout here?

**Caregiver:** I think it’s good as long as, I guess by selecting that it would
give you the different choices about which centers, but I don’t know which one I
would do, if I was doing his PCM, or his therapist. To do the caregiver thing we
had to go to Chicago to meet with somebody there before we could do anything
else.

**Moderator:** OK, we fixed it. And it really just started snowstorming here so
if my internet dies, it’s because a tree fell on my line or something. **…** All
right, let’s continue, then.

**Caregiver:** OK.

**Moderator:** Tell me about this page.

**Caregiver:** Um.

**Moderator:** Do you remember when you were first filling these out to get
benefits if you had any questions around primary caregiver, secondary? Did you
have to do any research to figure it out what all that meant?

**Caregiver:** You know what? I think I got some kind of packet or papers or
something from the VA up here that told me a little bit of the difference, if we
would need a primary or a secondary caregiver, which we don’t have a secondary.
But, yeah, this is good here. \<pause\> Yeah, it’s pretty self-explanatory here,
address and stuff like that, relationship. Yep. Do you want me to fill anything
out here, or click anything here?

**Moderator:** Yeah, if you could go up to the top and click you can see how,
again, it would fill out. OK, and for the relationship there, if you could click
it and see the dropdown and give me some feedback on that, maybe? What do you
think of the dropdown?

**Caregiver:** I think it’s good. It gives a lot of good options there.

**Moderator:** And then in terms of the health care area, is there anything that
would trip you up? Or how do you feel about that?

**Caregiver:** I guess I really didn’t pay attention to this part, really,
because I chose TRICARE because my husband is retired, and we have TRICARE. I
don’t know if we didn’t have TRICARE if I would qualify for something else. I
don’t know.

**Moderator:** OK. So, if you were filling this out you would just check TRICARE
and move on.

**Caregiver:** Yeah. I knew that we have TRICARE.

**Moderator:** OK, you can go ahead and click into that as if you were checking
it. And what about yourself, are you covered with anything for that question?

**Caregiver:** No, I just have TRICARE.

**Moderator:** OK, you can go ahead and click.

\<pause\>

**Caregiver:** Oh, this part is required, to add a secondary? I may have put
down my mom or my uncle. I’m not sure.

**Moderator:** So, it’s saying that you *have* to put a secondary caregiver
here?

**Caregiver:** Yeah, it says it’s required. But the thing is, with my Veteran,
you can’t. He’ll be OK with somebody else, but not like he is with me. If I had
to put someone down, I would put someone down, but not necessarily that person
would be on for the secondary caregiver.

**Moderator:** Interesting. The point of “required” is just that you have to
answer the question. You don’t necessarily have to say “yes,” but it sounds like
that’s not clear so that’s good information. You could click “no” here.

**Caregiver:** OK.

\<pause.

**Moderator:** What are you thinking here as you’re scrolling?

**Caregiver:** Oh, it’s very self-explanatory. I mean, this part’s pretty easy
here.

**Moderator:** OK. What would you do here?

**Caregiver:** Um, I would put my husband’s name here, he’s the Veteran. And
then I would type in my name and click yes on both of those and submit it.

**Moderator:** OK, so in terms of filling this out, you would be just filling it
all out on your own, probably. Is that correct?

**Caregiver:** Yes.

**Moderator:** With your husband on his behalf?

**Caregiver:** Yes.

**Moderator:** Any other thoughts about the wording in these boxes? Do you think
you would read it, or would you just, “OK, I’ll sign it, it’s just legalese.”

**Caregiver:** I would read it just because this is something that’s really
important to our family. I would read it.

**Moderator:** OK, so maybe if you can just go ahead and read it and then tell
us your thoughts.

**Caregiver:** OK. The Veteran part sounds fine. Um, and it kinda tells you what
it entails being the caregiver here. I think the wording is fine.

**Moderator:** OK, why don’t you click on the box so you can kind of pretend
that you’re signing it.

\<pause\>

**Caregiver:** Yep.

\<pause\>

**Caregiver:** Yeah, I think it’s all very self-explanatory here, it’s simple
and to the point of what you could expect. It has phone numbers here so if I do
have questions I can always call. Yeah.

**Moderator:** You can stop sharing your screen now, if you want, and we can go
through the rest of my questions.

Fourth Task: [understanding next steps] 
----------------------------------------

**Moderator:** This is a little bit of what you already know because you’ve gone
through the process, but now that you’ve submitted the form and stuff, can you
think if it gave you the idea of the next steps? Or what did it give you would
be the idea of what would be the next steps after submitting the form?

**Caregiver:** It’s always waiting with the military. Hurry up and wait. When I
submitted it, I knew it was going to take time for them to contact me through
the mail or a phone call if they needed more information. They would set up an
appointment with a nurse. She came out and had a look at where we live – we live
in an old farmhouse and we actually had our bedroom upstairs. My husband has
sleep apnea and at the time he was on Ambien. So, he was up a lot in the middle
of the night and he would be sleepy at night. So, he would come down the stairs
and eat and come back up the stairs. Well, she didn’t like that. So, we had to
actually move our bedroom downstairs to the dining room. We had to move some
things around, and I no longer have a dining room. That’s OK, we had to do what
we had to do for his safety.

**Moderator:** And do you remember, were you surprised by all the steps when you
initially applied? I know it was a while ago, but do you have any memory of when
you first submitted an application, did you know that there was going to be a
home visit?

**Caregiver:** Again, I think we were given some kind of a packet at the very
beginning. They came out once quarterly. Because my husband switched down to
Indianapolis, they now have to come from Indianapolis up here, which is
two-and-a-half hours for them. Sometimes with the weather we have to do a phone
conference because they just can’t make it. If you can’t make it, you can’t make
it.

Post-Task Interview 
-------------------------------

**Moderator:** And in terms of the online form process that we just went
through, what do you think was some of the hardest parts?

**Caregiver:** Maybe if the spouse didn’t know her Veteran’s Social Security
number, you know, stuff like that. I think everything else was pretty
self-explanatory, just entering in names and addresses. But if you didn’t have
that Social that would really put a hold on it until you found it.

**Moderator:** And what parts do you think worked well?

**Caregiver:** It was a fairly easy process; very self-explanatory. There were
phone numbers in case I had questions; if I wanted to create an account I could
sign in and I could always come back to it if I needed to and save it where I
was at. I think that did help if I had questions about phone numbers and such.

**Moderator:** I'm going to quickly show you the paper form, which is probably
what you filled out a while ago, and I’m just going to have you; I’m just going
to kind of scroll through it and have you remind yourself of it and then I’ll
ask you some questions about it.

**Caregiver:** OK.

\<pause\>

**Moderator:** Can you see it at this point?

**Caregiver:** Yes, I can see it.

**Moderator:** All right. So, I’m going to scroll to about here
\<unintelligible\>

**Caregiver:** It’s a lot of words. I think I problem did fill the paper one
out. At least I’ve seen the paper one, I should say.

**Moderator:** I’ll scroll down so you can see what it basically looks like.

**Caregiver:** Yeah. That looks a lot more intimidating than what I just saw
online.

**Moderator:** OK. Can you tell me a little more about why?

**Caregiver:** It just seems like there’s more information; I don’t know if
there really is or not but the way it’s laid out it just seems like there’s a
lot more information there.

**Moderator:** OK. So, if you were given this choice to have this on paper or to
go to VA.gov and filling it out the way we just did, which way would you prefer?

**Caregiver:** Definitely online.

**Moderator:** OK, and why?

**Caregiver:** It just seems overwhelming seeing this kind of paperwork, it
seems overwhelming. There’s a lot of little extra things on there and I think
you could probably find this stuff on the VA website if you wanted to go look
for that stuff, but I think some of it is, most people don’t need that part or
they don’t need to know that information. I don’t know. I’m sure these Acts are
important, but if I wanted to read them, I would go look for them.

**Moderator:** Anything else, just about – is there anything that you might
prefer about this form versus the web?

**Caregiver:** If you could make it be just like the one online, where you just
have the name, the address, like that, none of the extra information. Maybe I
missed it, but did it ask me for my birthdate and my Social? My Social online? I
don’t think it did, I think it just asked for my name and address and my
relationship.

**Moderator:** I’ll have to check on that. You know what, they did change some
of it. This is a slightly older form that they did update a little, but I forget
what they did…

**Caregiver:** The paper had a lot more information on it.

**Moderator:** Got it. OK, I’ll stop sharing. Let me just check to see if any of
my colleagues have any last questions for you.

**Caregiver:** OK.

**Moderator:** Since we have a few more minutes while we wait to see if they
have any questions, I have few questions related to your current process and how
often … Do you have to reapply, and how does that work since you’re already in
the program? And how do you know how long you’re going to get the benefits?

**Caregiver:** I don’t think even they can answer that question, when I’ve asked
them before. There’s a nurse and I think she’s a social worker that come out to
our house once every quarter. They’re usually here for about 30 minutes and
they’ll talk to my husband and they’ll talk to me and I have to fill out a
little form about how stressed I am, that kind of stuff. And the coordinator, he
doesn’t come to the house, he contacted us at different times. My husband had to
go inpatient last spring, so he called to check on me and stuff, and we were
supposed to do some kind of renewal or something, like an annual thing? And
everything’s been put on hold, is what they said. We drove down to Indianapolis
and that day, he called us like a half an hour before our appointment and he had
just gotten an email saying everything is put on hold, we aren’t doing any
annuals right now. Everything is suspended. So, if you’re in the program right
now, you’re in it.

**Moderator:** Interesting.

**Caregiver:** They’re not dropping anybody from the program right now, so I
never know. Like, I know each year, when it comes around the beginning of the
year, I get a letter or something that says, OK, or whatever it says.

**Moderator:** Yeah.

**Caregiver:** So honestly, I don’t have any idea. My understanding is if
they’re going to drop us a tier, you know there’s the three tiers, they would
let us know ahead of time before they did that kind of thing. It’s kind of like,
I don’t know, it’s frustrating because we’re dependent on that money now. I
don’t work, I’m at home, you know.

**Moderator:** I was curious, because I don’t know a lot about the program. I’m
just testing-centric.

**Caregiver:** OK.

**Moderator:** Is there any last things you think you would like the VA, or the
people who are designing the caregiver experiences for the web to know about
your needs?

**Caregiver:** Um, I don’t know if there’s anything out there right now that you
could share concerns with somebody about the caregiver program. That might be
something that’s helpful, if there’s some kind of link or something for
caregivers if we have questions or concerns about something. That is something
that would be very helpful because at times you hear other people complaining,
“Oh, I didn’t get picked up,” or “I applied three times and they keep telling
me, ‘no’” or whatever the case may be. It would be helpful to have something,
you know, that you could send a message to somebody. The thing is it doesn’t
seem like anyone really knows about the caregiver program. People know little
tidbits here and there, but nobody never knows about the whole thing. I don’t
know, it’s like it’s so new, they’re still working out the kinks and everything.
And I’m sure that some of the employees too, are like, “What’s going on, am I
still going to have a job working?” I’m sure it’s frustrating for them as well.

**Moderator:** By anything, do you mean the VA, or just in general for the VA as
well as Veterans?

**Caregiver:** I’m talking about the VA people. It just seems this person knows
a little bit about this area of it, and this person knows about this area. To me
it seems like, I haven’t met anyone yet that could tell me everything I want to
know about the caregiver program kind of thing.

**Moderator:** Yeah. And so, it sounds like you’re saying there should be some
kind of \<unintelligible\> or somewhere specifically about caregivers asking
about this program that the VA could respond to.

**Caregiver:** I think that could be helpful. I don’t know who that person would
be. I have no idea; we’re due for our annual and I have no idea if it’s going to
happen now. I haven’t heard. When I did go to the training a couple of months
ago, I did see the coordinator there in Indianapolis and he didn’t say anything.
That’s just it, even him being the coordinator it’s like they’re not given all
the information. I don’t think he’s withholding anything from us. I think he
doesn’t know himself. It’s kind of like on a day to day to day basis.

**Moderator:** And what if there was more of a generic space on the web, if
there was a log-in on VA.gov and it was specifically targeted toward caregivers
or something. Is there anything in particular that you would find useful? Is
there anything that you would want to see there beyond just this one caregiver
program?

**Caregiver:** I think it would be helpful if there’s some kind of link, and I’m
sure there is some on the VA but it’s very general. I think it needs to be a lot
more specific.

**Moderator:** What does it need to be more specific about?

**Caregiver:** About different things like the annual visits. Just explaining
that right now it’s on hold, it’s suspended right now. Kind of explaining about
the caregiver program, because it’s very vague right now. For me it’s very vague
just trying to, and I don’t even think about it anymore. They’ll call and say,
“OK, we’re coming for a visit, it’s quarterly visit time.” And I even asked
them, the social worker and the nurse and they don’t even know. And it’s not as
if they’re avoiding it, they just don’t know. You know. I’m very thankful for
the program but I think it has a long way to go as far as getting all the kinks
out of it and everything.

**Moderator:** Yeah, totally. So, you’re talking about not only detailed
information, but like, timely information.

**Caregiver:** Yeah.

**Moderator:** Like, this is the details of the program and, by the way, this is
what’s happening this month.

**Caregiver:** Right.

Thank You and Closing 
----------------------

**Moderator:** All right, well I think we’re about out of time. Are there any
last things that you want us to let us know about?

**Caregiver:** I think it’s important that the Veterans that have the PTSD
should definitely be included in this program because they are so dependent. I
mean, you don’t know the triggers; just when I think I know all of my husband’s
triggers, something happens to set him off, or he gets a crazy therapist that
wants him to go to some Middle Eastern restaurant to eat dinner. Craziness and,
you know, it’s ridiculous. I think that they’re working, with the VA, they’re
doing better, they just changed the number of visits they can have. We talked
about that with our nurse and social worker. But my husband falls under the
polytrauma so he’s able to continue seeing the therapist. Instead of 10 visits,
he goes every two weeks to see her and I was actually with him yesterday, we
were down in Indianapolis, and they are doing a lot of good work. I hope that’s
offered to all of them, because they need it. There’s such a need with the PTSD
guys and their families.

**Moderator:** Thank you so much for your time. It was very helpful.

**Caregiver:** Thank you.

**Moderator:** Have a good rest of your day!

**Caregiver:** You, too.
