# Note Taking for Caregiver MVP Usability Study

P10, Jan. 21, 2020, 3 p.m. ET

## Intro

**Moderator:** My name is Jonathan and I also have some colleagues on the line observing and taking notes today. So, today we&#39;re going to go ahead and talk about federal benefits that are provided to family members or caregivers of disabled vets. Does that sound about right?

Before we get started, I just wanted to mention a few things. It shouldn&#39;t take more than 45 minutes so if I occasionally prompt you with the next question or interrupt you, you know it&#39;s just to keep on moving forward.

I know your kind of already saw from a distance that your husband was interacting with a prototype. Not all of it is functional or clickable; so, none of the actual interactions will affect anything so you don&#39;t have to be worried about that.

It&#39;s really important for you to talk out loud as you&#39;re going through the process, about what you&#39;re thinking when you are reading something or trying to interact with the tools. That will help us get into your head. Just being honest and open will help us improve these designs and tools moving forward.

For if any reason you want to stop the session just let me know. Are you OK with me recording the screen and audio for our session today?

**Caregiver:** Yes.

**Moderator:** That&#39;s great. I&#39;m going to go ahead and start recording, and after I start recording, I&#39;m going to confirm again that you&#39;re OK with me recording the session once more.

_Start recording._

**Moderator:** So, I started recording and I&#39;d just like to confirm that you&#39;re comfortable if I record the screen and the audio as we talk?

**Caregiver:** Yes, I am.

## Warm-up Questions

**Moderator:** Can you just tell me a little about yourself in the role of caregiver?

**Caregiver:** He got out of the military in 2010. Instead of staying at Fort Hood I felt really unsafe, so we went home to northern Wisconsin and I tried to work for about a year, but he wasn&#39;t adjusting to civilian life. So, I found this caregiver program on Facebook and that&#39;s how I found the caregiver program. I applied and Oscar G Johnson is the local VA hospital which is about an hour away in upper Michigan. They sent a nurse down and got me all set up. They did a training; I got a certificate and I&#39;ve been using the caregiver program ever since. (My Veteran) has made a lot of progress to civilian life, but he still has things that are never going to go away. He has visible brain damage, so his TBI and comprehension, problem solving, and memory are not the greatest. So, I don&#39;t like using HealthNet. We have five children; two were still in high school when he got out, so it was imperative that I be at home and kind of be a buffer between (my Veteran) and the two younger children. We&#39;re empty-nesters now, the youngest one is 25. I think things have calmed down quite a bit, so I don&#39;t rely on the VA stuff as much as I used to. I do attend once-a-month training online. We moved here in 2013 \&lt;unintelligible\&gt; and two of our children were in college, so that&#39;s how we ended up in Wisconsin and using the Milwaukee medical center. But it&#39;s really intimidating to drive there – it&#39;s the death highway in the winter on I-94 and (my Veteran) doesn&#39;t do well with being on the road. It was just mentioning at his last doctor&#39;s appoint that he would like to do this with the doctor. He went to psychiatrist and he said it would be so nice to be able to do the consultation over the internet via a vehicle like this. That&#39;s kind of where we&#39;re at right now.

**Moderator:** Thank you so much for sharing that. And to circle back, you mentioned a Facebook group where you first heard about the caregiver?

**Caregiver:** I don&#39;t know who put it out there; I don&#39;t know if it was the VA – I don&#39;t remember, but it was the caregiver program.

**Moderator:** Sorry, I misspoke. You just heard about it on Facebook?

**Caregiver:** I also sign up for a lot of different Veterans&#39; groups on Facebook. I found this military warriors support foundation through Facebook. I&#39;m almost 60 and I can manage, but a lot of people my age can&#39;t, but I think if you keep it simple – I know we&#39;re a bit unusual. We&#39;re a little bit older to be Iraqi people.

**Moderator:** Sure. Just to clarify, I know you&#39;re the primary caregiver, receiving caregiver benefits for your husband. Are there any other caregivers for your Veteran?

**Caregiver:** You mean like my secondary? My sister is \&lt;intelligible\&gt;. If I needed somebody to take care of him, she would be the perfect one. And then her brother is the other secondary.

**Moderator:** OK. And are they listed?

**Caregiver:** Yes, way back when I put them down as secondaries.

**Moderator:** Gotcha. OK, great.

## First Task: [Determining preferred location for Caregiver application]

**Moderator:** So, what I&#39;m going to do, is, we&#39;re going to go through the steps of sharing your screen again.

**Caregiver:** Do you want me to click &quot;share screen&quot; now?

**Moderator:** Yeah, if you could do that. … OK, you&#39;re sharing. So maybe just go to VA.gov would be best.

**Caregiver:** OK.

**Moderator:** Great. So, let&#39;s say from Facebook and some other way you found out that you could receive these benefits from the VA, these caregiver benefits, and you wanted to go ahead and apply online. So, you ended up on this page, VA.gov. Can you just show us where you would go to find that application? Again, if you could just talk out loud.

**Caregiver:** I&#39;m a quick reader, I can read pretty quick. I&#39;m looking for benefits.

**Moderator:** OK.

**Caregiver:** I really don&#39;t see anything right now that says benefits.

**Moderator:** OK.

**Caregiver:** Facilities … health care … from VA medical records … download your benefits, change your address … apply for education, caregiving. I guess I&#39;m going to try for health care, maybe? I don&#39;t know. Anything down here? Family member benefits, I remember (my Veteran) did that, I&#39;ll go there.

**Moderator:** OK, but originally just out of the process of elimination you were looking at the health care?

**Caregiver:** Yeah. Now I&#39;m at VA benefits for spouses, dependents, survivors and family caregivers. It didn&#39;t scroll down right away, and I wonder how many people would just give up, you know?

**Moderator:** Back on that previous page you were on?

**Caregiver:** Yeah. Um, now I&#39;m looking at qualify for health care, life insurance, survivors may qualify for added benefits, burial, survivor compensation. OK, you may also qualify for support to better help you care for a Veteran. Find out which benefits you may qualify for and how to access them. So now I&#39;m looking, benefits, there&#39;s a link for benefits for spouses and dependents and survivors; more benefits for family member caregivers caring for the veteran. That would be the second link. Now I&#39;m at VA benefits for spouses, again, but I&#39;m on another page. How do I get help for Veterans in crisis, benefits for spouses, health care, education, loans, burial, compensation, blah, blah, blah. Um, health care, I&#39;m not interested in that. I don&#39;t see anything about caregiving, not yet.

**Moderator:** OK. And if you weren&#39;t able to …

**Caregiver:** Ah! I found it. Right-hand corner. I was just looking down here and then I looked over here and I found it. So now I&#39;m going to the VA caregiver support program, which I&#39;ve been here before because I do those monthly telephone things. For caregivers, support line, but I&#39;m looking for compensation. Or am I just looking for …

**Moderator:** Uh, it&#39;s more the link to the application. So, if you didn&#39;t have benefits right now, where would you be?

**Caregiver:** Am I a caregiver? Do I made medical appointments and go to the doctor? Yes. Do I handle the medicine? Yes. Do I remind him to take a shower? Absolutely. Will he take his medication? Not if I don&#39;t remind him. Help getting in and out of bed? He&#39;s out of bed all night and sometimes I have to go check on him. All of it. So, if you answered yes to any of these questions, you are a caregiver. So, what&#39;s the second step? OK, frequently asked questions, connect with others, publications … I don&#39;t see application. Looking over here now: caregiver support. I don&#39;t see application.

**Moderator:** Yeah. So, actually I&#39;ll just stop you there because the application doesn&#39;t exist online yet, but we wanted to see where you might go to find that application. I don&#39;t want you to go crazy or anything, so I&#39;ll just interrupt you there. So, that was great, it was really helpful.

## Second Task: [First impressions / thoughts]

**Moderator:** I&#39;m going to go ahead and send you this prototype link.

**Caregiver:** All right, apply for caregiver benefits.

**Moderator:** Great. So, now let&#39;s say that you decided that you were going to proceed to learn more here in terms of the caregiver program. Can you tell me what your first impressions are of this page?

**Caregiver:** I like the big blue bar – sign in to start your application. I love when I find those bars because it&#39;s like finding a shortcut. I don&#39;t have to navigate too much so there&#39;s my shortcut right there to the application. And it says I can sign in or I can do it without signing in. I did find the password and the ID for (my Veteran).

**Moderator:** If you were going to sign in, what credentials would you use? Would you sign in under (your Veteran&#39;s) name?

**Caregiver:** Actually, he&#39;s the only one that has a HeathNet account, so I would have to. I don&#39;t know; I think it would be very confusing to the system to have the caregivers to have their own HealthNet accounts, because that&#39;s really health information about the Veteran. He&#39;s my husband and I have health power of attorney, so I&#39;m allowed to view his records, so I would sign in.

**Moderator:** And just looking at this page, would you be eligible for benefits in the caregiver program?

**Caregiver:** Yes, I already am.

**Moderator:** I know you are already, but just imagining that you were seeing this page for the first time, is there anything on there that would let you know if you were eligible?

**Caregiver:** No. But I went through that on the page before.

**Moderator:** Right. So, there&#39;s a lot of information on the previous page.

**Caregiver:** I&#39;m looking. Caregiver qualifications; veteran&#39;s qualifications. So, its kind of explains that if they&#39;re injured, why they might need a caregiver. Scroll down I get what benefits can I get with this program, and then there&#39;s a couple links where I can learn more, some or the things, let&#39;s see how many of these I&#39;m getting: I&#39;m getting the caregiver education and training, I get the monthly stipend, I go with my veteran when he receives care and I get a travel stipend, I&#39;ve already signed up for TRICARE because I&#39;m his spouse, the mental health care services I&#39;m finding lacking. There&#39;s a lot of things that go on with being a Veteran and being a spouse that war takes its toll. (My Veteran) is the last man standing out of his unit; they&#39;re all divorced. So, I would really like marriage counseling as it pertains to the changes that trauma and going through war can do to your relationship. I find that lacking. He can get counseling, but I can&#39;t. I&#39;ve even asked and they&#39;ve said, &quot;Well, no, not really.&quot; But anyway, I&#39;ve never used the respite care; he doesn&#39;t trust anybody. Those are all nice things to have.

**Moderator:** And just kind of …

**Caregiver:** I&#39;m going to keep going.

**Moderator:** OK, yeah.

**Caregiver:** I would like to have all those things; I would fill out the form. I probably would have clicked to start the form already. I probably wouldn&#39;t have gotten this far; I would have just clicked on the form.

**Moderator:** OK. And so, you would have clicked on it …

**Caregiver:** … without looking at any of this. That&#39;s probably not good.

**Moderator:** Can you talk about that a little bit?

**Caregiver:** This should come before the bar.

**Moderator:** So, this should be before the bar?

**Caregiver:** Caregiver benefits should come before the bar. See how there&#39;s another bar down here? That&#39;s where the bar should be.

**Moderator:** When you said you would click on, I know you said you might sign in to start your application, and log in under …

**Caregiver:** And I would probably get lost in the application, probably, because I didn&#39;t read this part. Like if I needed help filling it out, I wouldn&#39;t know what to do so I would have to go back and look to see if there was anything. And that&#39;s how I am, I&#39;m a little A.D.D. I want the quick way.

**Moderator:** So, let&#39;s go ahead and say, whether you read this or not, that you decided you wanted to go ahead and proceed to the application. Can you go ahead and show us how you would do that?

**Caregiver:** Oh, that&#39;s nice, there are numbers to call! I&#39;ll just go ahead … And I would probably start the application without signing in because I would probably have the wrong password and thing for my husband is outdated.

**Moderator:** So, would you try to sign in to start your application first?

**Caregiver:** It&#39;s not promising.

**Moderator:** Oh, it actually won&#39;t let you because it&#39;s not built out yet, but let&#39;s say this is a fully functional website, would you try to sign in under those?

**Caregiver:** Yes, I would. I did, about two years ago, go to the patient advocate at the VA hospital and walk us through his login and update everything and that&#39;s how I got this user name and password, but that was a couple of years ago. Every time we go on HealthNet it&#39;s baffling to him, and really the only thing that I use on it is the medication printout, which I can get right from the VA. So, I fight with it. So yes, I will start my application without signing in, but I would have tried the password to see if it was still correct.

## Third Task: [Filling out the form]

**Moderator:** It&#39;s not still current, so show me what you would do next.

**Caregiver:** Yeah, I would sign in like that, and then I have the application for caregiver benefits, and I like these kind of forms. They&#39;re simple.

**Moderator:** I know you said it was simple; what do you mean by that?

**Caregiver:** I can actually use my browser on my iMac to change the information if I wanted to, like it&#39;s an automatic fill, so that&#39;s much nicer. But that&#39;s a Mac. On a PC, I don&#39;t know.

**Moderator:** So, you can go ahead and fill out the form like you would.

**Caregiver:** It automatically filled it.

**Moderator:** It automatically filled it. Can you talk a little about these fields here?

**Caregiver:** I always get nervous when I put in Social Security number, even on a government form, because the clerks of the world run the world, and who knows who they are. I would prefer not to use the Social. I would prefer to use the last four digits.

**Moderator:** Is there anything that would kind of ease that concern?

**Caregiver:** I don&#39;t know. We&#39;ve gotten notified that there are data breaches with the VA, he&#39;s got a tax ID, I mean an identity ID program right now that keeps track in case something happens. I don&#39;t remember if it was the VA or the bank, it was one of the two that had data breaches. It might have been the VA. I keep the letters; I keep everything in files, and I don&#39;t throw anything away. If I had to, if you pushed me, I could go find out who it was, but I&#39;m pretty sure it was the VA. I would be happier not using the full Social Security number.

**Moderator:** Sure, that makes sense. So, what would you do next?

**Caregiver:** I would go to the next page. Continue. Now it wants all the current address and stuff and I would do that, and it&#39;s all in there. I wouldn&#39;t give (my Veteran&#39;s) phone number because he never answers his phone. He will return a call if you leave a voice message. He is notorious if the doctor tries to call or the nurse tries to call, he doesn&#39;t pick up, so sometimes he refuses to wear hearing aids because he&#39;s macho and his ears are shot because of earplugs, so he doesn&#39;t always hear his phone. So, I always feel like its futile to put his phone number down, so I always use mine. So, there&#39;s that. And we have the same phone account, so we have the same number except for the last four digits so I just put my number in and then I hand him the phone so that way he keeps contact.

**Moderator:** So, it&#39;s not going to let you navigate until you put the name of the VA medical center. I know you already talked about going down to Milwaukee …

**Caregiver:** A 45-minute drive.

**Moderator:** So, do you know the name? You can just click the name of the state there and it will populate.

**Caregiver:** Ohio.

**Moderator:** Yeah you won&#39;t be able to …

**Caregiver:** Mountain View.

**Moderator:** So, are know the name of the clinic or the center you go to?

**Caregiver:** Yes. …

**Moderator:** So, there wouldn&#39;t be any issues in finding that out?

**Caregiver:** No.

**Moderator:** In terms of having an issue where you did not know the name of the facility, how would you be able to …

**Caregiver:** It would be a problem. But if I had a list, not by state, but if you had a list with all the ones in the region? We were going to (the VA center) in upper Michigan even though we lived in northern Wisconsin. So, you would have to make sure that you go by region, do you see what I&#39;m saying?

**Moderator:** Yeah, because if you were going to the U.P., then you&#39;re in a different state, yeah.

**Caregiver:** I could find it if I had to, if you had all the regional, closest ones in there, and they would have to be linked to the state somehow.

**Moderator:** Great. So, you entered all that information, can you show me what you would do next?

**Caregiver:** This would be an automatic thing for my computer to fill. And again, with the Social Security number, I&#39;m not comfortable with that. I don&#39;t see the reason why you would need it for the caregiver. You&#39;re not doing a credit check on me. Anyway, other than that I don&#39;t see a problem. And it&#39;s just an issue of identity theft for me. I&#39;ll click continue and move on. … Here&#39;s the address, and my relationship. I think that&#39;s important. I think that people who are not spouses should be vetted. I think that is kind of concerning. I think there are people that take advantage and unless you are a spouse you should be vetted. I have an FBI clearance from working at CYS, so I think that even a criminal background check. One of the guys in (my Veteran&#39;s) unit had his ex- mother-in-law as his caregiver and when he got divorced, he took her off the program and now he has a new wife and he can&#39;t get back on the program.

**Moderator:** Got it. So, if you came to this as the caregiver, how would you, what would you expect to happen in that field.

**Caregiver:** What my relationship is? I would click spouse.

**Moderator:** OK. You can go ahead and click in it.

**Caregiver:** And then TRICARE.

**Moderator:** And like I said, it&#39;s just populated.

**Caregiver:** No … uh, yes.

**Moderator:** OK.

**Caregiver:** And then continue. Secondary … they have someone picked out already. That&#39;s rather invasive again with the Social Security number. I have my sister and (my Veteran&#39;s) brother as our secondary caregivers and to put their Social Security numbers in there and then to have data breaches, you know? Like I said, they should be background checked. So, I don&#39;t know.

**Moderator:** It would cause some hesitation around providing their Social.

**Caregiver:** Yeah, I would have to warn them. I talked it over with both of them and then told (my Veteran) and he approved. But I went to them first and asked their permission. I think people sometimes don&#39;t have good relationships and they fall out, and then you have their Social Security number, that&#39;s not a good thing.

**Moderator:** Right, I know when you were filling out the paper you got your brother-in-law?

**Caregiver:** My sister was first and then his brother.

**Moderator:** Your sister and brother-in-law …

**Caregiver:** Because of the proximity to our address.

**Moderator:** Gotcha. And you got their permission and (your Veteran&#39;s) permission to use their Social Security number. If you were approaching them with this form for the first time would the Social Security number be a dealbreaker?

**Caregiver:** No, it wouldn&#39;t be a dealbreaker, but it would be a stop. I would have to stop filling out the form because I don&#39;t have my sister&#39;s Social Security number. I would have to call her and get permission. She may not be comfortable with that, she&#39;s a sheriff&#39;s deputy, she doesn&#39;t give out information. So, she may not be comfortable with that, and I don&#39;t know if (my Veteran&#39;s) brother would be comfortable with that. I know that if someone called me in my family and asked me for my Social Security number that I would certainly question, &quot;Why do you have to have that?&quot;

**Moderator:** Regarding the other information on this page, besides the Social Security number, or the page with the Social Security number, you would have all this for the secondary caregiver?

**Caregiver:** Yes. But there should be a disclaimer somewhere, I think. Saying that you might want to contact your secondary caregiver. Some kind of disclaimer or instruction that you will be expected to supply a Social Security number.

**Moderator:** So, something more like in the beginning where you are going to need this caregiver&#39;s Social Security number, please contact them?

**Caregiver:** Yeah.

**Moderator:** Gotcha. OK. So, you can go ahead and go to the next steps.

**Caregiver:** Review the application and signatures. OK, so, not sure what these mean. If I click on them, will I get more information? There&#39;s a plus sign.

**Moderator:** It&#39;s not clickable right now, but what you expect to happen if you clicked on that?

**Caregiver:** Well this is a review, so I would hope it would take me to that information so I could look it over and correct anything.

**Moderator:** OK, great. Let&#39;s say you reviewed all that information, what would you do next?

**Caregiver:** Well, I would double-check it because this is for money, so I would click on all three of those links to be sure. Because I would have to call my secondaries for their Social Securities, so I would definitely have to go back. It&#39;s like doing your taxes.

**Moderator:** When you got to the secondary caregiver Social Security number and you saw it was required and you couldn&#39;t go any further without it, what would you do?

**Caregiver:** I would keep going and leave it blank if the form allows me to.

**Moderator:** If the form didn&#39;t allow you to, what would you do?

**Caregiver:** I would have to stop and make phone calls, and that may keep me from being the primary caregiver, which make me say we&#39;re not going to have a secondary.

**Moderator:** Gotcha. So now you reviewed the information, so how would you proceed?

**Caregiver:** I would call (my Veteran) to have him type his name. I don&#39;t think there&#39;s enough discussion with boundaries with the caregiver training. My book when I got trained in 2012 or 2013, it discussed not doing for the Veteran what they can do for themselves, and I think people who caregiver confuse that with co-dependence and enabling, and they cross boundaries and it makes the Veteran feel like a baby. Their mother, which can cause marital problems, or it can be emasculating. So, I think that making sure that an actual Veteran and not someone taking over their life -- on the form. The Veteran must sign here, with a digital fingerprint somehow, I don&#39;t know. I think it should be the Veteran does it themselves, not the caregiver. Signing their husband&#39;s name, that&#39;s not a good thing.

**Moderator:** So just going off that a little bit, filling out this form in general, would you be doing it yourself and then call (your Veteran) over to sign his name?

**Caregiver:** Yes, because that&#39;s how he is. He hates paperwork and if he can dump it off on me, he will. Before he went to war and got concussions and he hates it even more now, because he has trouble with the logic.

**Moderator:** OK. You can go ahead, say you called (your Veteran) over, you can go ahead and …

**Caregiver:** I would actually call him over right here and have him look at it to make sure, because that&#39;s how we operate. Other people may not operate like that. I would have him review his part, and this part, the secondary, I&#39;m the primary so I don&#39;t need him to review that. But I would have him review this part and this part, the Veteran and the secondary, to make sure it&#39;s what he wanted, before I asked him to sign it.

**Moderator:** OK, you can go ahead and click in the Veteran&#39;s name there. … Did you not notice the checkbox at first?

**Caregiver:** No, I went back, but I&#39;m notorious for that, though.

**Moderator:** Gotcha, just put in the name and keep on going and oops.

**Caregiver:** It just insists that you have to back and do it.

**Moderator:** Gotcha.

**Caregiver:** That robot thing always bothers me, too. And then, now the secondary caregiver, who is this for, the secondary caregiver or for me, because the signature says primary caregiver&#39;s full name?

**Moderator:** Oh, right, that was a mistake, so let&#39;s just say that says secondary caregiver full name.

**Caregiver:** So, my sister lives four hours away.

**Moderator:** So, if you came to this what would you have to do?

**Caregiver:** I don&#39;t know. I guess this is something where I&#39;m going to have to wait until she comes down for a week and then finish the form.

**Moderator:** Gotcha.

**Caregiver:** It was convenient when I lived up north and she was right there. And his brother lives eight hours away, so these are caregivers that I would call if I was in the hospital. I had to have surgery a couple of years ago and my sister came down and took over for me. So, for day-to-day, my neighbor is a CAN, she&#39;s my day-to-day person and I have two daughters that live here that I can call, but they&#39;re not on this.

**Moderator:** They&#39;re not on the official caregiver form.

**Caregiver:** And there&#39;s a reason for this. The girls were immature when we were doing the paperwork and I didn&#39;t want them on it, and my neighbor is my neighbor, she&#39;s not a family member, so I would still want to have my brother-in-law or my sister to do this so I would have to have them sign it, so I might go with the paper version; I can even mail it to (my brother-in-law) and ask him, &quot;Can you fill this out and mail it in?&quot;

**Moderator:** OK. So, if you got to this point, and it&#39;s asking for the secondary caregiver signature, and you&#39;re like, &quot;OK, I have to stop.&quot;

**Caregiver:** I would go back and wipe out anything that has to do with secondary caregiver and finish the application, and then do a paper one for them.

**Moderator:** OK. So, you would go back to where it asks you if you would like to add a secondary caregiver, you would say, &quot;no&quot; and then finish the application.

**Caregiver:** It&#39;s more important to get the application done so he can have someone now.

**Moderator:** Got it. So just for our purposes, you can go ahead and click into that field and click the box and then, next.

**Caregiver:** OK, would read this and want to know what the next steps are. I&#39;m not form-conscience like (my Veteran), I would make note that was a 10-10 something. I don&#39;t talk military lingo. I would probably write the phone number down and the date that I did it on my calendar, that way if I didn&#39;t get the information back in a week I would call. I&#39;m persistent. I&#39;m that way, I don&#39;t know if others are, but I would follow up. If I don&#39;t hear, I would follow up.

**Moderator:** Great. You can stop sharing your screen.

## Fourth Task: [understanding next steps]

**Moderator:** Thank you so much. In terms of that process, applying online, what do thing was the hardest part of the process.

**Caregiver:** Secondary caregivers. It&#39;s one thing if they live near you.

**Moderator:** And can you talk a little more about that. I know there were some issues with the signature at the end, but was there anything else with that, with the secondary caregiver?

**Caregiver:** Well, I think there should be a disclaimer that says you&#39;re going to need information and you&#39;re going to need official signatures. And then that way why waste your time in filling out secondary caregivers if you know you&#39;re not going to have that information?

**Moderator:** That totally makes sense.

**Caregiver:** I would have to go back and find the paper option and I don&#39;t remember seeing one.

**Moderator:** Go back and look for the paper option, where would you go back and look for that?

**Caregiver:** Probably back at the beginning where it was explaining before the blue bar at the bottom.

**Moderator:** On the intro page?

**Caregiver:** Yeah, explain what you&#39;re going to be doing next before the blue bar.

**Moderator:** And if you wanted to add a secondary caregiver, you would just go ahead and print that off and fill it out?

**Caregiver:** Yes, two copies and then send them to (my Veteran&#39;s) brother and my sister with instructions to send it directly to the VA.

**Moderator:** Taking a step back from that secondary caregiver, was there anything with that online form that worked well that you liked?

**Caregiver:** I think all of it. I love online forms that you can fill in. Kinda like a question-and-answer thing for H&amp;R Block. I like clean, I like simple, and I like obvious.

**Moderator:** Absolutely. I&#39;m going to go ahead and show you this online form that we were talking about. The paper form, sorry, I think I misspoke. So, first of all, do you remember filling this form out?

**Caregiver:** Yes, it looks familiar.

**Moderator:** I know you spoke to how you would approach the online form, but if you approached this paper form, how would you fill it out? Would you fill it out my yourself and call (your Veteran) over? Would you fill it out together?

**Caregiver:** I would fill it out and call (my Veteran) over.

**Moderator:** And based on going through this form, and I know you spoke about especially with the secondary caregivers, going back and filling it out, if you had to choose between the paper form and the online form, which would you choose?

**Caregiver:** Well, I prefer the online form without the secondary caregiver problem, but I don&#39;t see where I would not have a problem if I did it, so I would probably end up using it because of the secondary caregiver thing.

**Moderator:** So, the secondary caregiver was the major block that would direct you to the paper form.

b Yeah, and it&#39;s definitely because of geography.

**Moderator:** Absolutely, that makes sense. I went ahead and stopped sharing my screen. Let me pause read quick to see if there are any questions my colleagues have.

## Post-Task Interview

**Moderator:** So, I guess there doesn&#39;t seem to be any last-minute questions, or is there anything that I didn&#39;t ask about this application process and the caregiver program that you&#39;d like to mention?

**Caregiver:** I think you guys are the contractors for designing the software for the website, so you&#39;re not really part of the caregiver program?

**Moderator:** Right, we work with the VA.

**Caregiver:** Actually for the most part, I think access to building better caregivers, or the page on the VA.gov site where you can click on a handout and print it out for the telephone thing, that&#39;s not too bad, but the HealthNet thing, you might as well no DOS to get through it.

**Moderator:** Can you say what that was again?

**Caregiver:** DOS?

**Moderator:** I know what DOS is, the Health what?

**Caregiver:** \&lt;laughing\&gt; I don&#39;t want to have to program to figure out my information!

**Moderator:** But what program did you say?

**Caregiver:** The HealthNet.

**Moderator:** Gotcha.

**Caregiver:** It&#39;s very unfriendly.

**Moderator:** Gotcha. That&#39;s what I didn&#39;t hear. And lastly, I&#39;m curious, I know you have (your Veteran&#39;s) login, maybe that would work and maybe it wouldn&#39;t, but if there was a caregiver portal just for yourself …

**Caregiver:** … I would like that.

**Moderator:** What would you like? What would be valuable for you to see in there?

**Caregiver:** Well, I have an app right now called The Overwhelmed Brain, and there are short little podcasts on your relationships and how to make them healthier. I just love that think, and I think having podcasts like that, once you get through the portal to the caregivers, that would be really, that pertained to the particular situation, like trauma and combat injuries and marriage, all of it. Raising kids when you have a Veteran with a hair-trigger temper. I think when I was on the building better caregivers&#39; website, I lost interest in it because it was more cognitive therapy, like a lot of mediation, and I&#39;m not into that. I want practical stuff. I want to get to the medication list easy and print it out, or his appointment list. I like having access to handouts that give bullet points about situations like handling negative emotions or something like that. I think a lot of women – and I&#39;m not like a lot of women – are emotional. They like a lot of comfort, like &quot;You&#39;re not in this alone and here&#39;s a big hug.&quot; I think keeping that empathy thing in mind – you know, this is hard, but no whining allowed. You signed up for it and this is how we can do it. I think keeping it clean and simple, too.

## Thank You and Closing

**Moderator:** Thank you so much, we really appreciate you taking the time, and this is going to be super-helpful. Thank you so much and have a good rest of the day.
