Note Taking Template for Caregiver MVP Usability Study
======================================================

P2, Jan. 17, 2020, 10 a.m. ET

Intro - 
--------

**Moderator:** Thank you so much for joining us today. My name’s Jonathan, and I
also have some colleagues on the line that are going to be observing and taking
notes.

**Veteran**: OK. And my name is \<redacted\>. I apologize for being a minute or
two late, but I had to work around this thing.

**Moderator:** No worries, we just appreciate you taking the time to join us.
Don’t worry about that at all. So, today we're going to talk about federal
benefits that are provided to family members or caregivers of disabled veterans.
Is that kind of what you understood?

**Veteran:** OK.

**Moderator:** Cool. Before we start talking about the caregiver program,
there’s just a few things I want to mention:

-   This entire session should take about 45 minutes. I want to be sure not to
    keep you much longer than that, so if at any time I occasionally prompt you
    with the next question, it’s just to keep on moving forward.

-   In a few minutes you’ll be interacting with a prototype. It’s not going to
    be fully functional; you’ll be able to interact with it like a website but
    some of the buttons won’t be clickable, some will be. I just want to make
    you aware of that.

-   And the most important thing is that we really want to have your honest
    opinions while we’re doing the testing. So, this is not a judgment on your
    ability to click through the website. We’re trying to get honest feedback,
    so any opinions that you express are welcome. You won’t hurt my feelings and
    you won’t hurt anybody else’s feelings.

**Veteran:** OK. Now, this in no way will affect my compensation or anything
with my answers, right?

**Moderator:** Nope, nope. In fact, I was just going to get to that. So, if you
feel comfortable we will record the session but that will be destroyed after we
gather any kind of data that will just be used for our analysis only.

**Veteran:** OK.

**Moderator:** And one more thing, as you’re clicking through the website or the
prototype, it’s really important for you to think aloud. So, for example, you if
you have a question about something, you could say, “I don’t really understand
what this means,” or “Now I click on this button to get here.” That really helps
us understand what your thinking was when using the tool. Does that make sense?

**Veteran:** OK. Does my caregiver need to be here?

**Moderator:** Nope, not at all. So I just want to confirm that if you’re
comfortable, that we’re going to record the screen and the audio as we talk
today, and we use the recording just to make sure everything on our end is
accurate and it will be destroyed afterward. So, are you OK with that?

**Veteran:** Yes, as long as I don’t break your camera.

**Moderator:** Sounds good. Once I start recording here I’m just going to kind
of confirm again that you’re OK with recording.

*Start recording.*

I have started recording. I'd like to just confirm: Are you comfortable if I
record this session today?

**Veteran:** Oh, yeah. We do our American Legion meetings just like you’re doing
here, expect we use GoToMeetings.

**Moderator:** OK, great, that’s a similar tool.

Warm-up Questions 
------------------

**Moderator:** Let’s just get started. Why don’t you tell me a little about
yourself? I know you’re a veteran and I know that you have a caregiver, but if
you can elaborate on that, that would be super-helpful just to give us some
context.

**Veteran:** OK. I don’t like to talk about \<unintelligible\> anyway, but …

**Moderator:** You don’t have to … whatever you feel comfortable with.

**Veteran:** I was drafted in 1965 for the Vietnam buildup and I went to officer
candidate school, deployed for eight weeks and in a holding company for two,
three or four months. I found out that they couldn’t let me be an artillery
officer because my eyesight wasn’t good enough to lead men. This is the story I
always tell: They decided that if I wanted do I could go to Ordinance OCS, where
they could teach me \<unintelligible\> how to fire the supply gun for them and
ammo dump – I’m sorry, I don’t talk as well anymore, I have Parkinson’s. So I
always say they didn’t teach me to cut the red wire or the green wire so they
were all right if I killed myself, but they just didn’t want me to blow my men
up.

So anyway, I had an accident which they put in the records that it was a gym
accident, which it was not; I fell down the stairs when they did something they
were not supposed to do, regulations, and I went to Walter Reed with a
concussion. When I got out I went to Vietnam, but I didn’t have but nine months
left. I was in artillery … I figured that was just payback. When I got there I
found out I really did have a critical MOS because nobody in the unit had
experience or schooling, so that was my job and we did it very well. We got
commendations and things. We had the finest people on the planet over there
working with me, and I noticed every one of them was volunteer. They wasn’t like
me, kicking and screaming and not wanting to go. But the truth of the matter is
I had a very good tour. We didn’t have an awful lot of bad times. We had some,
and I lost a few men, but most of the time it was just doing our jobs. I got out
Veteran’s Day and came home in ’67, and flew back home.

**Moderator:** And just as to fast-forward a little bit, you did mention you do
have a caregiver right now?

**Veteran:** Yes, my wife.

**Moderator:** And is it just your wife; do you have any additional caregivers?

**Veteran:** I had the opportunity to have them but at this point I don’t need
them.

**Moderator:** It’s just your wife right now.

**Veteran:** Yeah. I don’t want to impose on anybody else. I’m sure that as time
goes on and my Parkinson’s gets worse, and my wife gets worse, she has kidney
problems, so at some point in time she will go on dialysis, but not yet. When
she does, that will probably chance.

**Moderator:** And you currently live with your wife, the caregiver?

**Veteran**: Yeah.

**Moderator:** So, you are receiving benefits from the VA through the caregiver
program.

**Veteran:** Yes, I’m 100% disabled.

First Task: [Determining preferred location for Caregiver application] 
-----------------------------------------------------------------------

**Moderator:** We’re going to go ahead and jump into the tasks. What I’d like
for you to do is, I’m going to chat you a link to VA.gov, or you can just open
it up in your browser, whichever is easier for you. And I’m also going to ask
you to share your screen with me. It might give you the option to share your
whole entire screen? Go ahead and click on that.

*\<Pause as the Moderator trains the Veteran on how to share his screen and open
the link\>*

**Moderator:** If you can scroll down so I can see what you’re looking at.

**Veteran:** I have several clicks that I can do here. Health care, disability,
education, records. Probably more. Change your address – I’ve got some double
type in there too.

**Moderator:** Right, I see that.

**Veteran:** Where do you want me to go?

**Moderator:** So, what I want you to do is … I know you’re already a member of
the caregiver benefit program, but let’s say you heard about the benefit and
you’re thinking you want to receive these benefits and you want to apply online
at VA.gov. I’m just wondering that if you landed on this page where you navigate
to to kind of show where you find information about it and click on a link to
where you would navigate?

**Veteran:** Well, I wouldn’t look for the cemetery. Here’s create an account.
And find more tools, it looks like. Yeah, right now I’ve got Vet resources …
there it is … for caregivers and survivors.

**Moderator:** OK.

**Veteran:** So that’s where I’m likely to go. \<Pause\> OK, I clicked on it.
And it’s thinking, it’s trying to get through security. Now, this is the blog.

**Moderator:** OK, gotcha, you’re at the blog now

**Veteran:** Caregiver and Vet resources. I guess this is where I would find out
what I need to know. Health and community, leadership and service projects, the
mission

**Moderator:** OK, and I think now that a link to the online application doesn’t
exist right now but it makes sense that you would navigate to this page to find
out information. So you can go ahead and close this out. But I want you to keep
on sharing your screen and I’m going to go ahead and I just chatted over a link
to the prototype. And I’m wondering if you can click on that. Do you see?

Second Task: [First impressions / thoughts] 
--------------------------------------------

**Moderator:** But I want you to keep on sharing your screen and I’m going to go
ahead and I just chatted over a link to the prototype. And I’m wondering if you
can click on that.

*\<Pause while the Moderator trains the Veteran on where to find the chat link
and open the prototype\>*

While we’re waiting for it to load, what we’re looking for here is, let’s say
you found the place on the website … OK, you’re there. Before you kind of click
on anything, can you expand your window a little bit so we can see the whole
page? If not, it’s no big deal. OK, this is perfect because we can see it. So,
let’s say you did find the caregivers program and you wanted to see if you’re
were eligible or if you wanted to partake of these benefits. Just kind of
navigate through this page, and you don’t have to click on anything, what are
your overall impressions of this page? Would what do you think of this page,
here?

**Veteran:** So far, it looks good. It says down here, “Made with InVision,” we
could do without that. I guess they want it there so they can advertise.

**Moderator:** Right, right.

**Veteran:** It says “Start your application,” do you want me to go to that?

**Moderator:** We’ll go to that in a minute. I guess I’m curious if you continue
scrolling down, would you know from either the copy, the writing here, or
anything else, if you would be eligible to partake in the program?

**Veteran:** Oh, yeah, it down here. The big thing is “learn more about injured
in the line of duty.”

**Moderator:** And you can keep on scrolling down.

**Veteran:** OK. Find out if you qualify … what benefits can I get … not on this
page. Learn about primary and secondary caregivers…

**Moderator:** And what do you think when you see that? What are your thoughts?

**Veteran:** It’s … part of this I know. Part of this I didn’t know, and that’s
good to know as much as I can. I consider my VA benefits as back pay …

**Moderator:** So … I’m sorry, I didn’t mean to interrupt.

**Veteran:** Now we’re down here where you where you basically stop/start
filling things out. Learn more about power of attorney, representatives,
caregiver support coordinator.

**Moderator:** Some of those terms you’re pretty familiar with, some you’re not?

**Veteran:** Yeah.

Third Task: [Filling out the form] - 10 minutes
-----------------------------------------------

**Moderator:** OK. So why don’t you say, just for time’s sake, that you read
this page and you did want to fill out the online application. Where would you
go, what would you do to start that application? What would you do to apply?

**Veteran:** Well, I click on this down here near the bottom.

**Moderator:** The “sign in to start your application?”

**Veteran:** Yeah. Below it says, “Start your application.” They’re both
connected.

**Moderator:** Yep.

**Veteran:** Do you want me to click on one of them?

**Moderator:** Yeah. So, right now which one would you click on, to be clear?

**Veteran:** I think, “Start your application” would be the first.

**Moderator:** OK. You could go ahead and click on that.

**Veteran:** Yeah.

**Moderator:** So, it’s “Sign in to start your application.” That’s not going to
be clickable, but if you go below it. Right now we’re just doing … so you can go
to that link to start your application without signing in. Yep, right there.

**Veteran:** Yeah, it wouldn’t let me click the other.

**Moderator:** Yeah, remember, some of the buttons are not clickable, but that’s
good information to have. So…

**Veteran:** It …

**Moderator:** Go ahead.

**Veteran:** It did take me right down to the other one. It was easier work, you
knew exactly what to do.

**Moderator:** Right, right. So, kind of looking at this page, would you know
what to enter, would you have all this information, would you tell me a little
bit about what you’re thinking?

**Veteran:** Yeah. I would say this is a fillable form.

**Moderator:** Yeah, you can go ahead and click on it. For our purposes, it’s
kind of autopopulated, but all that information. Do you know that information
that you’re filling in there?

**Veteran:** Yeah, it was populated. Are you going to send me a check with
William George?

Moderator: \<Laughing\> No, no, sorry.

**Veteran:** Well I thought I’d ask.

**Moderator:** Yeah, that’s good. Good thinking. You can go ahead and hit
continue there to navigate to the next page.

**Veteran:** You want me to get out of this page?

Moderator: Yeah, we’ll just go through the whole form. So what would you do,
what you click next to get to the next stage?

**Veteran:** Continue

**Moderator:** OK. And if you could scroll down and let me know what you’re
thinking, if it make sense to you?

**Veteran:** It’s the typical address, city, zip, primary phone numbers,
alternate, email address. Some of this should be autopopulated when you sign in.

**Moderator:** Absolutely. So will you scroll back up, actually, towards the
address, and if you can click into it, it will autopopulate again.

**Veteran:** Yeah.

**Moderator:** Scroll back down and there’s something … you’re absolutely right,
some of this should autopopulate if you’re signed in. But I want to go down,
yes, right here – a little bit lower – so, “Name of VA medical center and
clinic.” Can you tell me what you’re thinking about that, what you would enter
here? Can you tell me about why you clicked on it?

**Veteran:** You’re keeping me on Ohio, it won’t let me go …

**Moderator:** Again, it’s just a prototype, so it’s going to fill in Ohio and
then will select a clinic for you as well, so if you go ahead and click in there
as well. So you can go ahead and click on the Jesse Brown there that’s
highlighted.

**Veteran:** So this would tell me the clinic.

**Moderator:** Can you tell me a little about the experience?

**Veteran:** You can find the locations. Jesse Brown is the assigned location, I
assume.

**Moderator:** Yeah, that’s just populated just to kind of have somewhere …

**Veteran:** Yeah. There’s a continue button here.

**Moderator:** Yeah, you could go ahead and click on that.

**Veteran:** Yeah, that should take us to Page 3.

**Moderator:** Right. And can you tell me about this information? What you’re
seeing?

**Veteran:** Caregiver or family members. So now we learn about the primary
caregiver. And click on that. Clicking on that tells us the code and all.

**Moderator:** And why did you go ahead and click on the primary caregiver
there? Can you tell me why you clicked on the “Learn more about primary
caregiver?”

**Veteran:** Why did I click on the first thing?

**Moderator:** Yeah, was that just something that you wanted to learn more
about?

**Veteran:** Yeah, that was interesting to see what happens when I do that.

**Moderator:** And that might not be clickable at this point, but I just noticed
that you clicked on it. So no worries. Now, you’re the veteran filling this out
for your wife, the caregiver. Would you have all of this information that’s
asked for there in those fields?

**Veteran:** Yes. I kinda know pretty much about her.

**Moderator:** OK. So if you wanted to proceed through the form, what would you
do next? Would you …

**Veteran:** Do the continue. That was Page 2, I thought it was Page 3.

**Moderator:** So you thought you were on Page … I’m sorry, can you repeat what
you just said?

**Veteran:** I’m not sure, but I believe we went back a page here. Page 2 of 3.
Primary care …. Oh, it’s the street address and populated. Yeah.

**Moderator:** No, no, that’s really … I can see where you definitely thought
that. So in terms of what is the primary caregiver’s relationship, how would you
interact with that there?

**Veteran:** Well, first of all I’d click on it and see … oh, there it is, and
it tells me that its fast, which would be the different choices, family member,
relative, the whole works. So in my case, it would be my spouse, just like it
is.

**Moderator:** OK, so you can go ahead and click on that. You just kind of have
to … yes, exactly. And then, yeah, what do you think when you read, “check all?”

**Veteran:** Well, I have Medicare, I’m not retired through the Army, but I do
have some Triwest care through the VA, but actually the only thing I can check
for me is Medicare. I’ve got Medicap that goes with it and I’ve got VA benefits
but they’re not listed here.

**Moderator:** Gotcha.

**Veteran:** I would just do Medicare there. I think there should be another
block or two to cover those of us who go to the VA that have Medicare.

**Moderator:** For sure. You can go ahead and click “none of the above” there,
because again, I just have it populated for you, but again, that’s great. So,
yeah, what do you think of this next?

**Veteran:** Well, I we’re both covered, so I can click on yes.

**Moderator:** And again, it’s just autopopulated there.

**Veteran:** Yeah. And, uh, I don’t know if my wife can be covered by the VA
health insurance if she’s a caregiver. I’ve got to do some research there.

**Moderator:** Yeah. And what would you typically do to do that research, to
find out more?

**Veteran:** To find out more?

**Moderator:** Yeah, information to find out if your wife could be covered.

**Veteran:** I would go to my Veteran’s service officer and ask her, because she
is an encyclopedia, I guarantee you.

**Moderator:** Yeah, that’s great. It seems like you …

**Veteran:** Now, just to be clear, my son’s clinic is not that good of a
clinic, the VSO’s not that good, so the best one I’ve found is a few miles
further. I’ve asked to be transferred but heard nothing yet, but that reminds me
to do something.

**Moderator:** Yeah, for sure. And just in the interests of time, because I know
we’re running out here, if you scroll back up to, yeah, actually you can stop
there. If you scroll back down a little it asks about the secondary caregiver.
Would you like to have a secondary caregiver?

**Veteran:** About her insurance there?

**Moderator:** Her insurance, and below that, if you scroll down a little. Yeah,
you see where it says, “Would you like to add a secondary caregiver?”

**Veteran:** Well, at this time I don’t need one. I’d click here. At my stage,
we don’t need one unless one of us took a trip but that’s something we don’t do.
We always go together.

**Moderator:** Right, for sure. So you can go ahead and click continue. But on
that point, there might be a time when we want to add a secondary caregiver
later down the line.

**Veteran:** Caregiver support coordinator is available at VA.gov.

**Moderator:** And that’s not going to be clickable right now. If you could just
navigate, if you could go back up and hit continue there.

**Veteran:** OK. Had I clicked on yes I probably would have been clickable then.

**Moderator:** And then, I know we’re running short on time, if you could give
us your overall impressions of this page, and we won’t have you click through
anything, what are you looking at here?

**Veteran:** “Review application and signatures page 3 of 3” “Veteran or service
member information” “Primary caregiver information” So in this case it would
probably be me. Oh, and I’ve got to sign. And this has got one of those
signature things you can’t sign. I’ve got to be true and accurate – in other
words, I can’t be a politician. “Primary caregiver statement of truth.” All the
little things about what happens if you don’t tell the truth, they punish you by
taking your firstborn child and sending you to a war zone. When you go through
all of that you hit submit.

**Moderator:** Great. And just out of curiosity, if you were sitting down to
fill out this form for the caregiver benefits, would you do it by yourself or
would you sit down with your wife to do it?

**Veteran:** Well, I would probably do it by myself but she could just as easily
fill it out for me. I’m a college graduate, she lacks two quarters of being a
college graduate.

**Moderator:** Sure, sure. That totally makes sense. That’s awesome. Let me see
if my colleagues have any questions. \<pause\>. So you can go ahead and stop
sharing your screen.

**Veteran:** OK. You want to stop sharing the screen.

**Moderator:** Yeah, if you can stop sharing. Awesome. All that information was
super-helpful.

Post-Task Interview 
--------------------

**Moderator:** So what I’m going to do is, I kind of want to talk about that
overall process. Was there anything that was extremely difficult? Was there
anything that worked well about going through that form?

**Veteran:** Actually, the form was explanatory, for the most part. Not that you
weren’t needed, but I think we could stumble through it. It’s self-explanatory
for almost everything. I don’t see where I would make any drastic changes to it.
It’s one of the best forms that the government has that I’ve run across.

**Moderator:** Good, good. Was there anything that was a pain point as you were
going through that form? Anything that didn’t work well?

**Veteran:** I missed one word there.

**Moderator:** Oh, was there anything that didn’t work well?

**Veteran:** No, it worked fine. I didn’t have any problems. My computer is set
up so when I bring things in it has to pass through a Norton security firewall
and that’s because I have two sons in the computer business and they don’t like
to come over and get viruses off.

**Moderator:** Right, right.

**Veteran:** So they’ve got me pretty well set up and aside from it being a
little slower because of the firewall as long as it’s safe. I’m blabbing on
things that really aren’t that important to this thing. But it works good.

**Moderator:** I want to go ahead and share my screen for a minute here before I
let you go. And what I want to do is show you the paper form and you might have
filled this out, actually. Can you go ahead and see the paper form here?

**Veteran:** Oh, yes.

**Moderator:** And I’m just going to slowly scroll through it, and I want you to
kind of give me your overall impressions of this form. Maybe you remember
filling it out, and yeah.

**Veteran:** There’s a couple questions here, “injured in the line of duty.”
Well, since I’m getting benefits, that’s an automatic yes, but I guess that’s
just definitions.

**Moderator:** Right, right. But you might have some questions about “injured in
the line of duty” based on your experience there.

**Veteran:** Yeah.

**Moderator:** So this first page is mostly definitions, and as we’re slowly
scrolling through here, overall impressions?

**Veteran:** General information, submitting. Yeah, quite frankly I think it’s a
whole lot of typing for nothing.

**Moderator:** Hmm. And if you sat down to fill out this form, this paper form,
would you sit down – I know you mentioned that both you and your wife are
capable of filling it out – would you sit down kind of on your own to fill it
out? Do you think your wife would? Do you think you would sit down together and
fill it out?

**Veteran:** What would make this very easy is to have it where when you
download the form its autopopulated with a PDF file or something like that that
populates this information for us. That would be outstanding. The real estate
business does that now, instead of just typing, typing, typing.

**Moderator:** Sure. And I know you mentioned that with the online form as well,
that a lot of that, if you signed in, should be autopopulated.

**Veteran:** Yeah, you do it one time and you shouldn’t have to do it anymore.
It should pick it up from Form A or Form B or something like that.

**Moderator:** OK, I know we’re just over time and I want to be respectful of
your time. I just want to ask you for one thing here. Are you able to share your
screen again and go to the VA.gov website? I just want to see what was happening
in terms of it. …

**Veteran:** Wait a minute …

**Moderator:** Do you remember how you shared it there?

**Veteran:** I got it.

**Moderator:** OK. Great. And then do you see the VA.gov page in your tabs
there? Just right below that. Yep, right there, if you can click on that. And if
you can scroll to the top of that page and I wanted to see what was happening
with that stacked … OK, scroll down a little where that text was double stacked
there? Yeah, a little bit, yeah right around there. OK, great. I just wanted to
see what was happening for myself there.

OK, great.

**Veteran:** They do have some errors there were it’s typed over.

**Moderator:** Yeah, I noticed that.

**Veteran:** They need to straighten this form out.

**Moderator:** OK, great.

**Veteran:** This may be a fast way for me to refill my prescriptions.

**Moderator:** We could talk about that later, if maybe you can just keep that
there but I want to be respectful of your time and everyone else’s time.

Thank You and Closing 
----------------------

**Moderator:** We do really appreciate you taking the time. Are there any last
things you want to say about the caregiver program, the online form that you
just went through, any questions for me? I just want to give you a time, if
there’s anything that I didn’t ask you that you wanted to say?

**Veteran:** Well, I’ll just add that the form for the caregivers was excellent.
That’s hard for me to say about the VA, but that one was. I’m an American Legion
commander so I’ll pass it on to my post.

**Moderator:** And just remember that this was a prototype and we hope to get it
online. We’re working to get it the best that it can be to get it online. That’s
good to share.

**Veteran:** We’ll watch for good things to come. And I’m also … the VSO at the
\<redacted\> clinic is the best one that I’ve seen. I try to help my Post
members get benefits because we’ve earned them. I don’t want them going to
illegal aliens. I’m politically correct, I didn’t say that the way I’m supposed
to.

**Moderator:** Right, right. You can stop sharing your screen and I want to be
respectful of your time. You can stop sharing.

**Veteran:** I was a little late so you’re not bothering me.

**Moderator:** We really do appreciate you taking the time to share your
thoughts and your feedback was super helpful to make this form and experience
better, so I really wanted to just thank you again, and that’s all that I had on
our end. I hope you have a great rest of the day.

**Veteran:** I appreciate that, this is the first time that I’ve done one of
these things.

**Moderator:** You did a great job.

**Veteran:** I now know how to do it better and will share this information and
hopefully will help a lot of veterans.

**Moderator:** Absolutely. That’s what we’re trying to do. So I really do
appreciate it and you did a great job, so thank you.

**Veteran:** I appreciate your time.

**Moderator:** Appreciate your time. Have a good rest of the day.

**Veteran:** Same to you, sir.
