Note Taking for Caregiver MVP Usability Study
=============================================

P2, Jan. 17, 2020, noon ET

Intro 
-----------------

**Moderator:** My name is Jonathan and I also have some colleagues on the line
observing and taking notes. Today we're going to go ahead and talk about federal
benefits that are provided to family members or caregivers of disabled vets.
Does that sound about right?

**Caregiver:** Yes.

**Moderator:** Cool. Before we start, a few things I want to mention:

This entire session should take about 45 minutes. I want to be sure not to keep
you any longer than that, so I may occasionally prompt you with the next
question or interrupt. If it’s abrupt, I want you to know why.

**Caregiver:** No worries.

**Moderator:** Cool. We’ll be interacting partially with a prototype. It won’t
be fully functional; some of the buttons will have interaction, some will not.
It will basically interact like a website, just so you’re aware of that.

**Caregiver:** OK.

**Moderator:** A couple of the most important things. It’s super important for
you to be honest. You’re not going to hurt my feelings or anyone else’s
feelings. We want honest feedback.

**Caregiver:** Oh, yeah, for sure. I have some frustrations, so I’m definitely
going to be honest.

**Moderator:** All right. With that being said, it’s really helpful for us and
the observers if you speak out loud as you’re navigating the site. So when I
send you the prototype you could say, “I clicked this because …” or “This
confuses me because ….” And that helps us get an insight about what you’re
thinking.

**Caregiver:** OK.

**Moderator:** Cool. And then if at any time you want to stop the session,
please let me know. We can definitely do that. And then a couple other things.
If you feel comfortable with me recording the screen and the audio during the
recording, that’s just for our analysis and will be destroyed after we
synthesize the data and everything?

**Caregiver:** OK

**Moderator:** Would that be OK?

**Caregiver:** Yeah, it’s fine.

**Moderator:** OK. So we’re ready to get started. And after I start recording,
I’m going to ask you again on the recording if you’re OK with it, so bear with
me while I get a little repetitive here.

**Caregiver:** OK

*Start recording.*

**Moderator.** OK. I’m now recording. I just want to confirm that you are OK
with me recording this session.

**Caregiver:** Yeah, that’s fine.

Warm-up Questions 
-----------------------------

**Moderator:** Can you tell me a little about yourself? I understand that … are
you a caregiver?

**Caregiver:** Um, I’m 31 years old and my Veteran is my significant other. I’ve
been with him for 7 years, almost 8 years. He’s rated at 100% by the VA, he
suffers, he’s rated mostly for his mental health issues, he has a couple of back
strains and disc and stuff like that. So I applied in the process for applying
for the caregiver; really in the process of appealing it now. So that’s where
we’re at now with the process.

**Moderator:** Do you currently live with your significant other?

**Caregiver:** Yes.

**Moderator:** OK, great. And so I know you’re in the process of applying. Did
you say you were appealing a decision?

**Caregiver:** Yes

**Moderator:** Gotcha. So currently I understand the Veteran is rated 100%, so
are you receiving any benefits under caregiver right now?

**Caregiver:** No, I’m not receiving anything from them.

**Moderator:** OK, thank you so much for sharing that, it really helps give
context as we jump into this. Some of the stuff you might have seen before,
right, the form to fill out, so please share any experiences that you might
have. Why don’t we go ahead and jump into the task here?

What I’m going to do is chat you a link and I’m going to ask you, this is just
VA.gov, so whether you want to navigate to that yourself or just click on the
link I just chatted you, that would be great, and I’m also going to ask you if
you would share your screen with me?

**Caregiver:** OK.

**Moderator:** Do you see where that is to share?

**Caregiver:** Yeah.

First Task: [Determining preferred location for Caregiver application] 
-----------------------------------------------------------------------

**Moderator:** So, let’s say, and I know you have, you heard of a way you your
receive caregiver benefits or be part of this program from the VA. You want to
apply online and you navigated to this site, VA.gov.

**Caregiver:** OK

**Moderator:** Could you just show us where you might go to find that
application?

**Caregiver:** OK. Um.

**Moderator:** And again, if you could just talk out loud that would be
super-helpful.

**Caregiver:** So, I would probably want to scroll down, I’m thinking it would
be in here somewhere. Evidence … compensation … And are we talking specifically
for the caregiver application?

**Moderator:** Specifically, for the caregiver. So I know you navigated to
Disability first, can you tell me your thoughts on that?

**Caregiver:** Well, my thoughts behind that is that that’s where we went when
he was applying for the disability benefits, those things, and then we’ve also
used the education tab because he’s got post 9/11 benefits. For us, specifically
for the caregiver application, we didn’t do online, it was just a little page
that the person from the caregiver support office, she sent it to me by email, I
signed it and sent it back over. So I really wouldn’t know where to go.

**Moderator:** Cool, no that’s really valuable. So, why don’t you go ahead and
scroll down the page a little and see what catches your eye.

**Caregiver:** So, “family member benefits” really sticks out to me, the last
sentence in that paragraph says “to find out what you’re eligible for as a
family member caring for a Veteran with disabilities,” so I think my best bet
would be to click that tab.

**Moderator:** Go ahead. Go ahead and click on it.

**Caregiver:** And then right over here on the right side of the screen we see
“VA caregiver support program.”

**Moderator:** Cool. So what would you…

**Caregiver:** I would click that.

**Moderator:** OK, awesome. And I want to be clear, yeah, great. So you arrived
at this page and what do you see here? And again, whatever you’re thinking out
loud, is super-helpful.

**Caregiver:** Um, I see a lot of useful information that I wish I would have
seen when I was initially applying for the caregiver support program.

**Moderator:** Gotcha. OK, cool. This is great. And actually, the online form
doesn’t exist yet, so that’s why the person just sent you that paper. You can go
ahead and close out of the VA.gov.

**Caregiver:** OK

**Moderator:** And I’m going to chat you another link to click into.

Second Task: [First impressions / thoughts] 
-------------------------------------------------------

**Moderator:** While we’re waiting for this to load, I want to set the stage.
Let’s say you did find the link on that website and that you kind of wanted to
explore it more, so before you click into anything, can you just kind of tell me
anything about the page, your overall impressions of the page?

**Caregiver:** OK. It looks nicely set up and it looks like the application for
the caregiver benefits.

**Moderator:** OK, cool. And you can scroll down the page, yeah, any other
thoughts as you navigate the page?

**Caregiver:** Um, so I’m seeing this will be equal to the VA form that the lady
had given me. I’m think I’d signed and sent back to her. It’s saying save time
and save your work your progress, which I think really helps because sometimes
life is going on and you might have to stop in the middle of the application,
you don’t have to feel pressure or stressed that you have to finish it all in
one sitting. I know for my Veteran, it’s hard for him to do anything in one
sitting, so if a Veteran is filling out the application it would make it much
easier for them to stop.

**Moderator:** For sure. So, you can go ahead and navigate all the way down the
page.

**Caregiver:** OK. Then I see here a question and I give some information
pertaining to that question, which is a really good question because a lot of
people really don’t know that they can be compensated for taking care of
Veterans.

**Moderator:** Can you kind of, as you’re navigating through this page, as a
caregiver of a Veteran, would you know if you were able to participate in the
program, if you were eligible, for lack of a better term?

**Caregiver:** Yes. It explains it right here.

**Moderator:** OK, great. So which parts on that page would you think are most
useful before you were going to jump into the application, if you had a choose
some sections here?

**Caregiver:** Um, I would say the section right here, because then you can know
that it is a faster process, that you can save your application, and then this
information right here, it is explaining that if you are eligible that you can
receive those benefits, so I think that helps out a lot, in letting you know
that you can go ahead and start the application.

Third Task: [Filling out the form] 
-----------------------------------

**Moderator:** OK, great. So, let’s just say that you decided you wanted to
apply for these benefits. Can you show us what you would do to apply?

**Caregiver:** Um, I would look here, read this information and make sure that I
have all the information that I need before I started it

**Moderator:** And is it clear to you what information you would need before you
start?

**Caregiver:** Yes, it says it right here, you need the Veteran’s and
caregiver’s Social Security numbers and basic information about the Veteran’s
and the caregiver’s health insurance.

**Moderator:** OK.

**Caregiver:** And then I know that if I do need help I could contact someone
for help and they will try to find someone that can help me with my application
– which would have been really useful when I was originally filling out my
application.

**Moderator:** Yeah, if you could, what do you think, if you decided you wanted
to go ahead and apply, now you can go ahead and click around if you want to
start the application, what would you do to do so?

**Caregiver:** Um, sign in?

**Moderator:** OK.

**Caregiver:** Without signing in?

**Moderator:** So first you navigated to the sign in. Can you talk about that a
little bit?

**Caregiver:** Um. I mean, because that’s the only thing that I can see that
would get me to start the application unless I didn’t sign in. Um, but he has an
eBenefits account and everything, so I would probably try signing in.

**Moderator:** Gotcha. And do you have an account under the VA, or would you
sign in…

**Caregiver:** No, I would sign in under his account.

**Moderator:** Cool. So, right now that sign-in to start your application is not
clickable, so go ahead to “start your application without signing in.”

**Caregiver:** OK.

**Moderator:** So yeah. Let’s say you decided you wanted to go ahead and apply.
Can you just tell me your overall impressions for me? What do you think of the
page? You can move around as well, kind of navigate it.

**Caregiver:** It’s just asking for the basic information – first name, last
name, Social, date of birth and if they are male or female.

**Moderator:** And you can go ahead and click into the Veteran’s first name, and
it will kind of auto-populate.

**Caregiver:** OK.

**Moderator:** So, going back to the Veteran’s Social Security number or tax
identification number, would you have that information? Would you know all the
information on this page?

**Caregiver:** Oh, yeah. Like I said, I’ve been with him for almost eight years,
so I’m like his filing cabinet \<laughing\>.

**Moderator:** Cool. So you can go ahead and navigate through the form and
again, thinking out loud, what do you think when it comes to this page?

**Caregiver:** Um, it’s letting you know, or it’s asking you to complete the
following information, and it’s letting you know that you aren’t require to, but
if you do, they may be able to review your application faster. So, that would
encourage me to fill out that information, because I would want my application
processed faster.

**Moderator:** Yeah, exactly. So now, if takes you to this question that’s not
auto-populated. Can you tell me about that?

**Caregiver:** So, it’s asking where the Veteran is receiving or plans to
receive his health care services, which VA medical center. So I would have to
let them know which VA center my Veteran uses.

**Moderator:** Right. And would you know that information?

**Caregiver:** Yes.

**Moderator:** OK. So, yeah, you can kind of interact with this tool, and I know
it’s kind of auto-populated, so obviously you know which state, and you know
what center or clinic.

**Caregiver:** Yes.

**Moderator:** Great. You can go ahead, and again, tell me what your impressions
are?

**Caregiver:** Oh, it’s asking me about the primary caregiver’s information and
then it’s saying you can add information for up to two secondary family
caregivers.

**Moderator:** Do you have any questions about what a primary caregiver might me
versus a secondary caregiver?

**Caregiver:** My understanding is the primary caregiver lives at home with the
veteran and, you know, pretty much does mostly, most of the, you know, those?
And then I think the secondary caregivers are if the primary caregivers have an
appointment or needs a break or something like that, then the secondary
caregivers would step in at that point and help them out.

**Moderator:** If you wanted to learn, kind of, more about the information,
where would you go to do that on this page?

**Caregiver:** Um, on this page?

**Moderator:** That’s totally cool. It’s no big deal. So great. And obviously,
for the primary caregiver – you can go ahead and continue.

**Caregiver:** OK. So … it’s just asking for the address and phone numbers. It’s
also asking for an email and asking if the primary caregiver is currently
enrolled in health care coverage.

**Moderator:** And what do you, what would you think about there? Would you
know, like, does all of this make sense to you? Do you have any questions about
what any of those mean?

**Caregiver:** No, it makes sense, it’s self-explanatory.

**Moderator:** If you could scroll up a little bit to the next question – I’m
sorry, the question above that? That didn’t auto-populate. I’m hoping you can
tell me your thoughts and click into that.

**Caregiver:** OK.

**Moderator:** So, right now it would just auto-populate, but …

**Caregiver:** OK. I like it, I like that they have significant other on there
because I’m not his spouse. I couple of applications I have done, whether it’s
Veterans’ organizations or things like that, it says, “spouse” and not
“significant other,” so I really like that they include that here.

**Moderator:** Yeah, you would just have to click in the box there. Cool, cool.
So you said the primary caregiver’s health care information is pretty
self-explanatory? Let’s say you have a question about Medicare, and you’re like,
“Wait, am I on Medicare or Medicaid?” How would you, like, find – is there a way
you think you could find out information about that?

**Caregiver:** Um, I mean, I feel like I know that I’m on Medicaid and not
Medicare. I’m not 65, I’m not disabled, but I know for other people it might not
be as self-explanatory.

**Moderator:** Cool. Well, you could go ahead and select one of those, or none
of them.

**Caregiver:** OK.

**Moderator:** Yeah, and you can navigate to the bottom of the page and continue
on with the form. So, tell me what you’re thinking about, “Would you like to add
a secondary family caregiver?”

**Caregiver:** Um, well for our situation, we wouldn’t have a secondary
caregiver to add, because I live here and I’m here 24/7, pretty much, so we
wouldn’t have a need for it.

**Moderator:** Sure. OK, you can go ahead and navigate through. Cool, and tell
me your thoughts on this page, what you’re seeing, what you’re thinking?

**Caregiver:** Um, it’s just asking for the Veteran’s electronic signature, just
saying that everything in the application is true. And it also asks for the
primary caregiver’s signature as well, electronic signature.

**Moderator:** Cool, and tell me if you came to this page after filling out the
form, kind of like what you would do on this page?

**Caregiver:** I would just like my Veteran know that I’m at the end of the
application and then I would read this disclosure to him and then type his name
into there and then click “yes.” And then …

**Moderator:** You can click into that box and the check box as well. OK?

**Caregiver:** And then I would go down here and read this to myself, and then
sign the box?

**Moderator:** OK, I’m going to stop you there.

**Caregiver:** Uh huh.

**Moderator:** The primary caregiver statement of truth – can you read that and
tell me your thoughts on that? Is it confusing?

**Caregiver:** OK. \<pause\> No, nothing that’s confusing.

**Moderator:** Cool. So you can go ahead and, what would you do next?

**Caregiver:** I would electronically sign and click yes, and then click “Submit
application,” and then print this page for my records.

**Moderator:** OK, obviously, that’s super-helpful.

Fourth Task: [understanding next steps] 
----------------------------------------

**Moderator:** Now that you submitted the form, what do you think are the next
steps in this process? You have some experience in applying – yeah, what do you
think are the next steps?

**Caregiver:** If this was my first time applying, I would look down here and
just read, because it says what happens next, so I would just read this
information to see what happens next.

**Moderator:** Do you think it’s clear? Do you have any questions?

**Caregiver:** No, it’s pretty self-explanatory.

**Moderator:** OK. So, I did just want to take you back the form, and we alluded
to this a little bit, but when you would sit down to fill out this form on line
and then go to the signature page, would you fill it out by yourself and let the
Veteran know you were signing his name? Would you do it together?

**Caregiver:** No, I would have initially started the application on my own and
then when I got to the end at that point, I would have read it to him and then
let him know they just want to make sure that everything’s true in the
application, and then I would type his name, click the button and then go down
to my part.

**Moderator:** Got it. Yeah, that’s great. So let me go ahead, you can stop
sharing your screen now.

**Caregiver:** OK.

Post-Task Interview 
--------------------

**Moderator:** Well, thank you so much, that was really helpful. If you can give
your overall impressions about that form, what did you think as you went through
it? Was there any hard parts to that process?

**Caregiver:** I really liked the form. For me, because I’m younger and like
being able to do things online, I feel like it’s much faster when you do it
online. I like that you can print out the confirmation at the end. There wasn’t
really anything confusing on there for me, and I really wish this was
implemented a couple of years ago.

**Moderator:** Great, great. And that all makes sense. And was there any
information you might not know, or anything else that kind of was difficult
about the form?

**Caregiver:** No.

**Moderator:** Great. Let me just pause real quick. I’m going to share my screen
with you real quick.

**Caregiver:** OK.

**Moderator:** I’m going to show you the paper form, which I know you’re
familiar with. I want to walk you through that and if you can tell me your
thoughts about that so we can kind of compare.

**Caregiver:** OK.

**Moderator:** I’m going to ask my colleagues if they have any questions and
we’ll go from there.

**Caregiver:** OK.

**Moderator:** So, let me go ahead and share my screen. Can you see? Cool. So,
the first section is … are you familiar with this form? Have you seen this
before?

**Caregiver:** Yes.

**Moderator:** OK. And can you tell me kind of your overall impressions of the
form?

**Caregiver:** Um ….

**Moderator:** I’ll just navigate through.

**Caregiver:** It’s just black and white. There are a lot of words to read. The
online one was much better. It was much more interactive. There were more colors
to it. When I got this form, it’s just like, it doesn’t make me want to read
through all of that. “Oh, I have to read all these words!”

**Moderator:** Sure, sure. And so, if given kind of a choice between the paper
form and the online form?

**Caregiver:** Definitely online.

**Moderator:** And you’ve stated the reasons why, but anything else you want to
add to that?

**Caregiver:** No

**Moderator:** And I know that we’ve already talked about the online form, but
as far as the paper form, if you had to sit down and fill this out, would you do
it by yourself, with the Veteran, with both of you together?

**Caregiver:** With both of us together.

**Moderator:** OK. And why? That’s a little bit different than from the online
form, where you would bring the Veteran over. Why would you sit down with both
of you together with this?

**Caregiver:** Because he would have to physically sign.

**Moderator:** Great. I’m going to stop sharing here.

**Caregiver:** Great.

**Moderator:** And before we kind of, let’s see, proceed, I’m just going to
pause real quick and see if my colleagues have any questions.

**Caregiver:** Sure.

**Moderator:** So, if you’ll give me one second? \<pause\> OK, so I know, we
have a few more minutes left, so I wanted to ask about your experience in
filling out the paper form. You said someone sent you the form and you signed it
and sent it back, and I was wondering if you could provide a little more detail
on that?

**Caregiver:** So, when I initially signed the form, the caregiver support
coordinator had sent it to me and so we had filled it out and scanned it back to
her. You know, I really think had it been done online it would have been done by
faster, like three weeks faster? Because once we sent the forms to her it was
right before the holidays, a lot of people were taking vacation and I had to be
constantly calling and follow up and chasing an answer, and it got really
stressful for my Veteran because I was wanting answers and he wasn’t getting
answers so it put a lot of stress on him, so like I said, I liked the idea of
doing the whole thing online much better because it’s way faster.

**Moderator:** Sure, sure. So initially you did fill out the form, send it and
then scan it to the caregiver support?

**Caregiver:** Yes.

**Moderator:** And when you were filling out that form, it was you and the
Veteran?

**Caregiver:** I’m sorry, what did you say?

**Moderator:** When you were filling out the paper form, was it just you that
was filling it out?

**Caregiver:** No, he was with me as well.

**Moderator:** Gotcha. And yeah, I know you already mentioned that, I just
wanted to … cool. So that makes sense.

**Caregiver:** \<addressing someone off-camera\> What classes?

**Off-camera voice:** … appeals process.

**Caregiver:** Oh, I wish. \<addressing the Moderator\> They don’t do the
appeals process online, right? That’s all paper?

**Moderator:** I’m not, like, and expert.

**Caregiver:** Oh, so you wouldn’t know. OK. My Veteran just asked me.

**Moderator:** Yeah, I know it’s a totally valid question, but I’m just working
with the VA on this form, so. …

**Caregiver:** I understand.

**Moderator:** I wouldn’t want to speak to that, but, sorry I couldn’t answer
that. And I guess I know that you’re kind of in this process … I guess my last
questions would be, you mentioned the signature part, but you talked about
having the Veteran with you when you filled out the paper form? But you
mentioned the online form you would just call the Veteran over and say, “Hey,
I’m going to check this.” Can you talk about the difference there?

**Caregiver:** Well, because I would need his physical signature, I can’t pick
up the pen and sign his name for him and he’s going to want to know what he’s
signing. That’s just my thought process on that.

**Moderator:** Right, right. Absolutely. Cool, cool. Well, let me just make sure
\<unintelligible. …. And then I want to give you the chance \<pause\>. I know
that I’ve kind of asked you a lot of questions. Do you have any questions for me
or anything else that you want to share about the form or about your experience
about the caregiver process?

**Caregiver:** No, it just hasn’t been an easy or fast process. I initially
applied all the way back in May and here we are getting close to it being a
whole year now and we’re having to fight with the VA and it’s not an easy
process. I think it would have gone much faster had everything been able to be
online.

**Moderator:** So, yeah, that’s maybe if there’s anything you feel comfortable
with. And are you in Florida?

**Caregiver:** Yes.

**Moderator:** How long ago did the Veteran leave the service, compared to ….

**Caregiver:** Um … \<addressing off-camera\> Was it 2010? \<addressing
Moderator\> Yes, it was 2010.

**Moderator:** Gotcha, gotcha. And then when you started applying for the
caregiver it was …

**Caregiver:** We initially started applying for the caregiver in 2016 and then
we got denied, but we really didn’t know what it was back then about what it was
or anything like that. I just ended up finding a job. We didn’t want to deal
with appeals, and it was too much for him to deal with as well, so it got put on
the back burner. And then I kept having my job put in jeopardy because some days
are good, some days are bad. On his bad days I need to be here for him and I
have to call out of work or I have to leave work early, so it’s a lot of stress
and financial burden. When I heard about the caregiver support program, I
thought it sounded like something we could benefit from and it would take a lot
of stress off of him if I was being compensated because it’s a lot of financial
strain just giving off his disability income. That was our thought process with
it and we applied and they denied us, and we appealed and now we’re at the
second appeal, I think it’s with the VISN. So we’re in the process of getting
all the documents and all of our paperwork together for that.

**Moderator:** Gotcha. So, that makes sense. So it was 2016 when you originally
applied and then you appealed and now you’re in your second appeal.

**Caregiver:** And it really frustrated me because when we initially applied, in
the paper it said that \<he\> would have benefited from the program in the past,
however they didn’t think he would benefit from the program at that moment. And
it was like a slap in the face because, here I was in the past applying for the
program and you denied me then, too. So, you know, which one was it?

**Off-camera speaker:** But then they said…

Caregiver: \<addressing off-camera speaker\> It’s not your turn. You’ll talk to
them on Monday. You can’t be interjecting. … you’re talking to them about the
same thing on Monday. \<addressing the Moderator\> But yeah, that’s where we’re
at with that.

**Moderator:** All right, I gotcha. That makes a lot of sense.

Thank You and Closing 
----------------------

**Moderator:** I think that’s all the questions that I have. We just have a few
minutes. I just wanted to really thank you for taking the time to share your
thoughts. The feedback is super-helpful as we make the site and the process
better. So I’d like to really thank you. Any last comments, questions for me?

**Caregiver:** No, I don’t have any questions.

**Moderator:** Well, we’re a few minutes early, but again, I really appreciate
it, and I hope you have a great rest of the day.

**Caregiver:** Thank you, you too.
