Note Taking for Caregiver MVP Usability Study
=============================================

P4, Jan. 17, 2020, 2 p.m. ET

Intro
-----------------

**Moderator:** Thanks for joining us today! My name is Jonathan and I also have
some colleagues on the line observing and taking notes. Today we're just going
to talk about federal benefits that are provided to family members or caregivers
of disabled veterans.

Before we start, a few things I want to mention things:

-   This entire session should take about 45 minutes. I want to be sure not to
    keep you much longer than that so if I abruptly interrupt or if I prompt you
    with the next question, you know why.

-   I’m going to be showing you both a website and a prototype, so not all of it
    will be clickable. Some buttons will act like a website, some will not. So I
    just kind of want to let you know that not all of it is clickable and by no
    means are we testing your ability. We want your honest feedback, because
    we’re going to use all this feedback to build better tools, so the more
    honest you can be, you’re not going to hurt my feelings or anyone else’s
    feelings.

**Caregiver:** Yeah, yeah, OK.

**Moderator:** As you’re kind of looking at things, it’s really important for us
to talk out loud, or for kind of think out loud. So, for example, if something
doesn’t make sense, just saying, “I don’t understand this because the wording
doesn’t make sense to me,” that helps. And of course for any reason if you don’t
feel comfortable and want to stop the session, please let me know.

So, before we get started, I just wanted to ask if I could record my screen and
the audio today? It’s just for our purposes, to analyze and make sure we
captured everything correctly, and it would be destroyed after we analyze it.
Would that be OK?

**Caregiver:** That’s fine, OK.

**Moderator:** So I’m going to go ahead and start recording. And as I record,
I’m going to ask you again if that’s OK, to record, just so it’s on the
recording.

**Caregiver:** Sure.

*Start recording.*

**Moderator:** So now I’ve started recording. I just wanted to confirm that
you’re OK with me recording this session once more?

**Caregiver:** Yes.

**Moderator:** OK, great. And you’re just on the phone now, is that right?
You’re not on your computer?

**Caregiver:** Right. My computer is over the hill, gang, OK?

**Moderator:** Yeah, yeah, I understand. That makes sense. So I’m wondering, are
you able to see me at all?

**Caregiver:** Say that again?

**Moderator:** Are you able to see me ask I speak? Are you able to see my face
or anything?

**Caregiver:** No, I’m … this … it’s not pulling this up, no.

Warm-up Questions - 5 minutes
-----------------------------

**Moderator:** OK, gotcha, gotcha. OK, give me one second here. So, while we’re
waiting, can you just tell me a little about yourself? Are you a veteran, a
caregiver?

**Caregiver:** Yeah, OK. Are you ready?

**Moderator:** I’m ready.

**Caregiver:** I’m a veteran from, uh … I went in active duty in 1960 and I was
in the National Guard, actually, and then I was called up by John Kennedy during
the Berlin Wall, the Berlin crisis, and so I was in active duty in 1961-62, and
we were just waiting …. We had practices and things of that nature, so anyway,
of course, as you know Vietnam was breaking out at that time, too, so we didn’t
know if we would go to Vietnam. We didn’t even know that much about Vietnam at
that time so we were just waiting to see what the President was going to do.
Evidently he had a lot on his plate at that time with the Cuban missile crisis
the Bay of Pigs and all that happening and Vietnam and with the Berlin Wall, so
we were just there doing military exercises and waiting to see what we were
supposed to do. So I stayed in the Guard until 1966, at that time I got out, but
we were told to be prepared anyway, because anything could happen. I was in the
artillery. I am a disabled Veteran; I hurt my back at the motor pool doing some
work and I had to the hospital for two weeks for therapy and one thing and
another, and then of course being in artillery it did affect my hearing. That’s
kind of where I’m at; I’m 100% disabled right now.

**Moderator:** Gotcha, gotcha. So, I know you mentioned that you’re 100%
disabled and you currently have a caregiver, is that correct?

**Caregiver:** Do I have a what?

**Moderator:** Do you have a caregiver currently?

**Caregiver:** No, I do not.

**Moderator:** And have you ever applied for the caregiver program or anything?

**Caregiver:** No, I haven’t.

**Moderator:** OK. Do you receive any benefits from the VA? I know you said you
were 100%.

**Caregiver:** Yes, yes.

**Moderator:** You do receive benefits from the VA.

**Caregiver:** Yes.

**Moderator:** Right. OK, um, do you have anything who is acting as a caregiver
in your life?

**Caregiver:** No, I do not.

**Moderator:** OK. Well, I just wanted to ask you, you haven’t applied for the
caregiver, do you have any interest in applying for the caregiver program
through the VA?

**Caregiver:** Well my father-in-law, I was telling the lady, earlier today, we
were trying to get, because my wife and I are basically caregivers for my
father-in-law, of which he’s a Veteran and he’ll be 90 in a couple of days, and
he was in during the Korean War and I was trying to get the caregiver benefit
for them. However, their income is a little too much for them to qualify, I
guess. They told me at the VSO that the only way we could get them in the
caregiver program was if they had to go into assisted living and go through
their process and all of that so …

**Moderator:** Gotcha, gotcha. No, that makes a lot of sense, and I’m sorry I
was kind of asking – yeah, that makes a lot of sense. So I know you mentioned,
maybe that they make too much money and they would have to go into assisted
living in order to qualify. Can you just tell me about who told you that or
where you found that information?

**Caregiver:** Oh, you mean about having to go into the assisted living?

**Moderator:** Yeah, and maybe about not qualifying because they make too much
money.

**Caregiver:** The VSO here told me that they had to go through their steps
through whatever the assisted living was that they went to and do their process
to determine. My father-in-law and my mother-in-law are both on Social Security.
He draws a retirement, so they said they would have to go into assisted living
first. Once they went into assisted living – this is my thinking on this – then
all the money that is required to go to assisted living, and it’s very pricey,
then they would qualify, but they can’t go anything until they go in first, so
we’re kind of in a standstill in that deal.

**Moderator:** Yeah, so that makes sense. You’ve been in contact with that
individual?

**Caregiver:** Right.

**Moderator:** … and that’s where the information …

**Caregiver:** Right.

**Moderator:** That makes a lot of sense. If you did decide to apply for the
program, would you ever approach an online form, or would you stick to the paper
and pencil?

**Caregiver:** I’ve got a paper and pencil here, if you …

**Moderator:** I’m sorry, I misspoke there. I was just wondering about, if you
decided to apply to this program, the caregiver program, what would be your
steps to going about to do it. Would it be going through this coordinator in
Texas? Would it be going online?

**Caregiver:** Yeah, I’ve seen different programs online and everything, but
before I jump in to something like that I would want to check with the DAV or
the Veterans’ service officer here, as I mentioned to you, I’ve already talked
to them and they just kind of shot me down on that because, they would have to
go in first to a place. Well, that’s kind of a gray area because they don’t want
to do that because they do have a home, we would have to go through the whole
process of selling their furniture and all of that and they don’t want to go
through the process of that because they’re living at home now. It would just be
too confusing to try to jump over that hurdle right now.

**Moderator:** Yeah, absolutely.

**Caregiver:** Like I said, he’s going to be 90 and she’s 85 and it doesn’t take
much to throw them off, anyway. And then to say, “We’re taking you to assisted
living now,” that would be devastating to them at this point. It’s not like
they’re bedfast or anything of that nature. They’re not very coherent and doing
their business, my wife has to do all of their business transactions as far as
paying their bills and we buy groceries for them and she takes care of all of
their medicines, etc., etc.

**Moderator:** Sure, that all makes a lot of sense. And I guess I just had one
or two more questions for you. I was wondering if, I know you mentioned your
wife is kind of taking care of a lot of things – medicine, the books, things
like that. If you were going to apply for this program would it mostly be you as
the caregiver, or would you sit down with your father-in-law to fill out this
form together?

**Caregiver:** Yeah, we would be the caregivers if we got to that. If they
eventually qualified, depending on how all of that works, I know there’s a lot
of hoops they have to jump through.

**Moderator:** Sure, sure, and I know you already mentioned the assisted living.
Were there are any other of these hoops that you speak of? Where do you hear
about those kind of obstacles, those roadblocks? You talked about the hoops you
have to jump through; where you do typically hear about that from? Online or
something you read, or just word of mouth?

**Caregiver:** Well, it’s kind of hard to say. I don’t know. It’s kind of a
waiting to see what happens. We don’t want to wait to the point where they’re so
critical that we don’t have any choice other than doing it immediately. It may
come down to that but right now they’re still able to do normal things in their
home and stuff like that. It’s just it’s kind of show and tell right now. We
don’t know at this point how far down the road it will be before something has
to happen.

**Moderator:** Right.

**Caregiver:** Now, as far as doing it online or something like that, I belong
to the DAV also but I’ve had real good results myself with the Veterans’ service
officer here in town. There’s still some questions I have, like if we get to a
certain point with them, with them not being coherent about being able to do
anything, then what would be the next step? In other words would they really be
there for us, is what I’m trying to say.

**Moderator:** If the VA would really be there for you?

**Caregiver:** Yeah, if they would really say, “Oh yeah, since you’re in this
situation we’ll do something for you.” I don’t know if that would be that way or
not, I’m not sure. Like I say, I did try to get him, in fact I took my
father-in-law over there to try to get hearing disability for him because he was
in the military. But he gets so confused and he starts telling them about his
life history, and they don’t need to know all of that. He just gets confused
about what’s going on. When I took him to the interview and everything. So the
VA pretty much shot it down. They said he told them he’s lived his entire life
around a railroad track. Well, he didn’t. He lived there just a couple of years
when he was about 8 or 9 years old, and he likes to talk. He talked their heads
off. He told them a lot of stuff that wasn’t really true and the VA just came
back and said, he’s hearing wasn’t connected to the military. But there’s no way
they can prove that or not because – well, they could with me – but anyway it
was just another hurtful thing to get through and that’s what happened.

**Moderator:** Well, we really do appreciate to share this experience and your
thoughts. Is there, I know that we’re a little short of the expected time, but
is there any last thoughts, questions that you have around the caregiver
program, thoughts that you might have?

**Caregiver:** Would you repeat that last part?

**Moderator:** Is there anything that I didn’t ask you that you want to share
about your experience about the caregiver program?

**Caregiver:** Not really. I mean, I pretty much really told you everything that
we’ve dealt with with them, and as far as my stuff, I’m pretty much laid it out
to the best of my knowledge.

Thank You and Closing 
----------------------

**Moderator:** Great. Well, this was super-interesting and informative so I
really do appreciate the time, and if you don’t have any questions, I just want
to say have a good day and thank you so much.

**Caregiver:** OK, thank you, Jonathan.
