# 10-10CG Usability testing: 12:00 PM 

## Notes

**Note: Moderator is in bold**

**Can you tell me a little about yourself? (If stuck, ask about location, occupation, etc.)**<br>
I am a caregiver to my husband. He just retired in the past 30 days. He was 21 years in the army. He served three tours to Iraq. We’ve been all over Germany, Kansas, Virginia, and we made Virginia our home. So we transitioned from [VA location] to [VA location]. We just bought a home and have children here at the house.

**Are there any other family members / caregivers of the veteran?**<br>
No, just me.
    
**Do you currently live with your veteran?**<br>
Yes

**Do you recieve benefits from the VA?**<br>
Yes. My husband is 100%. It’s service connected. 100% PTSD alone.

### First Task: [Determining preferred location for Caregiver application] - 5 minutes

**"Let's say you heard about a way you/your caregiver could recieve benefits from the VA, and that you could apply online at VA.gov. You have navigated to VA.gov and now want to find the application. Show us where you would go to find it."** <br>

Sure. <br>
*Clicks on VA Benefits and Health Care menu*<br>
I would on where I just clicked to see something that states Caregiver. Then I would go to search and type in Caregiver and narrow it down from there. 

**So the first thing you did was go to the dropdown. So then you navigated to the search bar and typed in Caregiver?**<br>
Yea, then I would narrow it down to “Caregiver application”. Then the information there like “Family member benefits” I would go to the one that says “family caregiver, the second item”. This page looks familiar to me. The top bar looks different than when I saw it before with the Puerto Rico stuff. I had went here before and downloaded an application to see what I would need to start gathering before my husband got out. I saw the application was 5 pages long and I wanted to know somewhere to get help so I was happy to find 3 support coordinators for caregiver [at nearest va center]

**How did you find that?**<br>
I went through everything Caregiver though this site. I found the Caregiver program and the application. There was a little thing that says “you can link with a caregiver coordinator” I clicked it and went to my state.

**When you started this application process, he was still in the army?**<br>
Yes, he was at wounded battalion so I had a lot of women there who were caregivers to their husband and they were all telling me, “there’s a caregiver program where you can get a stipend for doing what you doing right now and there are different levels” so they were trying to give me insight and it was some good stories but some bad stories so I tried to take it all in and prepare. But we haven’t really had anyone from the army tell us about it. Just stuff I found out from other wives. 

**Was that in person or online?**<br>
For me it was active wounded battalion. I’m part of [group name]. He takes you to Hawaii for a week to reconnect to your spouse through a Christian-based event. I connected to a lot of women through that and connect with them on Facebook. I get a lot of information from that site as well. 

**So now that you’ve arrived on this page, what else would you expect to find out on this page?**<br>
I would hope I could find out where I turn my application in. Like, do I have to go to one of the coordinators to do that or can I do it online? Supporting information I need. Where do I write what I do during the day. I have so many questions about tiers and levels. Am I supposed to be journaling all of this? How do I explain how much care I’m giving?

**You applied through a paper form. The link doesn’t exist to get to the Caregiver application. So I’m gonna go ahead and chat you another link here.**

### Second Task: [First impressions / thoughts] - 5 minutes
**Now you've found the location and landed on this page. What are your first impressions? Are you / your caregiver eligible to recieve these benefits? How do you know? Which parts were most useful on this page?**<br>
I like that it says "Save time". I’m always looking to save time so I would read that first because it says that.  *reading the content out loud* So that’s nice. So, I would at this point, I would glance over all of it but I would start my application just to have started it even if I didn’t do anything but start it. I would do that just to be able to say, “I’ve started this” and put this on the list to go back. 

**You would start the application, what button?**<br>
The bright blue one that grabs my attention. *clicks button*

*navigates back*

**Just by looking at this page, would you know if you were eligible to receive benefits through this program?**<br>
*Accidentally starts application and navigates back*<br>
*reading headers out loud*<br>
No, I wouldn’t know right off I was eligible just by looking at that. I think something that was most beneficial to me was where it said “Do you do this, do you do this, do you do this” Okay, if you said yes to any of these then you are a Caregiver. 

**Okay so on the website there was a website about eligibility and that was helpful for you?**<br>
Yes! Because it broke it down. My husband has PTSD and some physical ailments but mostly mental and it’s a lot of work so how would I even know if the things I’m doing would qualify. So that would be helpful to know if those things apply to me: safety, medication, cooking

**When you went through this application, did you fill out this paper form?**<br>
I’m not getting Caregiver benefits. I haven’t even submitted my application yet. 

**You did touch base with those coordinator support?**<br>
Yes, I was just gathering information because I knew I couldn’t apply until I was out and then life just happened for the past four weeks. It’s something I’m still trying to figure out. I know I’m a Caregiver but it’s just navigating and getting it filed. 

**Were there any things on this page you found useful?**<br>
I like that it said “If you are a primary caregiver you may receive education and training” because I feel lost a lot of the time. So it’s nice that it’s beyond the things you can Google because I know it will be through and I’m pretty sure there’s something I can do online with other women in terms of educating myself so that interests me too. 

### Third Task: [Filling out the form] - 10 minutes
**Now let's say you/your caregiver is eligible and you've decided you'd like to apply for these benefits. Go ahead and show us what you would do to apply**

**Were you clicking on the sign in?**<br>
Yes

**You already explain why you wanted to get it started. What would you expect to happen when you click that sign in to start application?**<br>
I would expect to see some instructions and “this is what it’s gonna take to complete this application”. My initial thought was, “How am i gonna explain to them what I’m gonna do in a day in 15 minutes?”. Off the basic application, does it prompt where someone would talk to me later and discovery what I do? That’s my question. If it’s a 15 minute application then I can get this application started and not finished in case I need to go onto something else. Then I would be able to move forward to have an appointment to tell someone what I do. 

**Move onto something else there, at the house?**<br>
Yes

**If you were starting this application, would you do it by yourself, with your husband?**<br>
I would start by myself and then review it and if it was something he should participate in then I would include him. I don’t want to overwhelm him with things as well cuz sometimes I go to him and try to start something and he gets frustrated and then it become an argument. 

**The link below that says start below, did you note that?**<br>
I did! I expected the box to light up and open up and the line below was opening. 

**You should be able to go ahead and click that link**<br>
*participant clicks link* 

**Let’s say you decided to go ahead and apply, we’re gonna walk through the form here. If you could just think out loud and tell me first impressions.** <br>
I would scroll the whole page before I put his social in. If I put this in, I can’t go forward without doing it and then I would complete the information to see the next page. I would be hesitant to put the social just so I can see what point I can stop and what point it would be saved. I would see if it was worth starting before I aborted the mission. 

**Would you know all this information?**<br>
What I feel like I know, generally in things in my past once you hit continue that part is stored and saved so if I were to lose it, it would save that much so I can open the application that’s already been started. 

**You would expect it to automatically save as you go through?**<br>
Every time I hit continue I would expect it to save that. 

*Participant navigates to next page*

**Can you tell me about these forms?**<br>
I would just scroll down again, any information I have on hand or will I have to go search for it? Do I have time to finish this? It looks like I would have all this information on hand and go ahead and complete it. 

**It just autopopulates it there and brings you down to VA medical center. Tell us about that.**<br>
My husband goes to [missed the name] VA medical center. This is a new experience for him and he’s been years with his old one and he’s transitioning to new places. 

**You would know which medical center?**<br>
Yes.

**You can click into the state, and it’ll auto… then click again**<br>
I would know the state and the center. As far as the center or clinic, I just learned that by taking him to his appointment. Before his first appointment I would not know that for someone who has not been there. I guess it depends on what level of care you provide 

**That’s something you know from taking to his appointment?**<br>
Yes, but a lot of my girlfriends would have to run to their husband to ask the name of the center or clinic 

**You can go ahead and continue. Just tell me what you’re thinking**<br>
I would just read that first *reads the top text* *scrolling* I would scroll down again and that’s all valid information I’m comfortable sharing and I. would fill it in and continue. 

*Participant clicks to next page* 

Sign 2 of 3 is telling me I’m halfway there so I feel comfortable that I can get this done before too much time. I would scroll through, I always scroll through up and down and it would be easy to navigate, but if it was a lot of small print I would not get this far cuz I have to triple check I’m not making any errors. It’s nice that it’s cut and dry and what I’m entering in is just basic stuff and there’s nothing behind it. 

**I know you clicked in here and scrolled down. Is there anything you have questions about? How would you engage with primary caregiver’s relationship?**<br>
I have a question because I see primary and secondary caregiver items. We have four children in the home and my mother lives with us to take care of the children because i take care of my husband. I know I’m the primary caregiver but would my grandmother be a secondary caregiver? Because in order to do this survey I need her here with the kids so I can be in this room doing the form. I would need to go revisit this secondary caregiver. 

**How would you, if you wanted to learn more, like if your mother qualified, how would you learn more about that?**<br>
Honestly, I would google it first and just do, “VA caregiver primary and secondary” and then I would pull information from VA.gov of course. But I was also pull other information from blogs or anything I find resourceful. My Facebook groups and search that. 

**That makes sense. I’m just wondering… where it says.. can you scroll down? So if you were in this form, you would still go ahead and google?**<br>
No, if I read down that far I would click the dotted line for Secondary Caregiver. 

**If you scroll back up to where it says what is the primary caregiver relationship. with the veteran, it autopopulated. And if you select..  regarding health coverage would you know?**<br>
Yes

**Going down to the next question**<br>
Yes, well I don’t know because it’s dental so I don’t know if it would apply

**Coming down to secondary caregiver, could you show me what you would do?**<br>
I would click that link because I would never add a secondary caregiver without talking to my husband, my mother, and researching it. If I felt that she met that criteria I would talk to her about it and if she thought it was great I would talk to my husband and then we would add her.

**Do you have a sense if she’s eligible?**<br>
*Participant clicks a link that opens a webpage with an article. The moderator guides the participant back to the form.*<br>
I would probably just continue the application without the secondary caregiver and I would either not finish it without talking to her or I would finish it and then talk to someone later about adding her 

*Participant navigates to the next screen* <br>
**Can you tell me what you’re seeing here?**<br>
I like this because it allows me to go in and check myself. I assume it would drop down. it’s so helpful because so many times fo rme when I’m filling something out like this I am making sure everything is good in the house so this would make me feel really comfortable about finishing the application so I could make sure I didn’t make a silly error that would cost us time. And it makes me feel like it’s not that painful of an application. If this wasn’t here I would constantly be worrying if I filled it out right. This is reassurance. 

**Navigating down to statement of truth, can you tell me how you would engage with that?**<br>
I would read it, and reread it to make sure that everything is okay. *reads it out loud* Okay, so at this point I would go in and tell my husband I’m doing this and ask for his consent. And he would tell me I don’t need to read it to him and I would fill it out and submit. 

**You can go ahead and click on the veterans full name field**<br>
Okay *clicks*

**And you can proceed**<br>
*Clicking*

**What were you clicking?**<br>
Yes, the submitting information is true

**You can click on this box**<br>
*clicks*

**Can you tell me about this box?**<br>
So yeah, this box I would look and I’m an adult..  family member.. making sure I’m being honest is what it looks like. I would read it and probably.<br>
*reading*<br>
I would joke with him that he can revoke me. Let’s see.. then I would sign my name. And then I would submit application. I would feel very comfortable submitting this but I would question the secondary caregiver but that’s not something that’s super important to prevent completing the application. I would continue with just me and then when we go to the VA next time I would reach out and ask questions about the secondary caregiver. 

*submits application*

### Third Task: [understanding next steps] - 5 minutes

**Now that you submitted the form, what do you think are the next steps in this process?**<br>
*Moderator is sharing their screen*<br> 
**This is the confirmation page you would have received.**<br>
The first thing I would do is screenshot it because I would want the proof for my husband because he likes to see things. If I’m not receiving a response and I know I submitted it I have proof of evidence for our record so there would be no question about the date. Then I would scroll down to see what’s next and make sure it’s including in the screenshot so I can come back to it when I’m thinking about it. i would put an alert in my phone that I should have heard. I would take the screenshot and put an alert in my phone so I can check back in a week if anyone hadn’t reached out to me. Later tonight I would research the secondary caregiver so if someone did reach out to me I could ask how to add them. 

**I want to circle back to that a little bit. You mentioned a few times how important it is to see if you qualified for the secondary caregiver. Why is that so important to you?**<br>
My mom is doing the duties for my kids what I would normally do. She watches over my husband cuz I have appointments too so I don’t know if she qualifies. If something happened to me she would be his primary caregiver 

**What information or qualifications would you like to see if your mother qualified?**<br>
The most simple thing for me would be, “Does she do this for him”, just a basic list of qualifications and if you say yes to any of these then you could be a secondary caregiver. Just some basic stuff to say, “that’s relatable, that’s relatable”. Some scenarios, or if I’m not here she’ll give him his medicine. So if it said, “able to administer medicine, knows the medicine, knows the VA, knows his illnesses, doctors” things like that. I would not like to add her and then her not qualify for it and then I would be suspended or get in trouble 

**What have you heard?**<br>
Just from other military spouses, sharing and things like that I know I’m a caregiver. I don’t know what extent they would call that.

### Post-Task Interview - 5 minutes

**I'm going to quickly show you the paper form. Have you come in contact with this paper form?**<br>
Yes I have it printed. I had it on my phone but I ended up printing it and that’s how I knew about the support coordinators 

**Why did you print it?**<br>
Just because eventually I’m gonna show it to my husband and he needs it on paper. He will look at it later, he doesn’t look at things when I give them to him 

**Would you fill out this paper form by yourself or with your husband together?**<br>
I would fill it out myself and try to find a good time to talk to him. I’ve already shown him the form and I would want to get his input. I would have to wait a day or two to get his input. I have to prep him and wait for him to talk about it and sometimes he doesn’t and then I will do it. 

**Is there anything.. impressions of this form…**<br>
The power of attorney, I know that he would be very hung up by that. He would not to give up his power of attorney even though I am his caregiver. He would be like, “what do you mean power of attorney” so he’d have questions about that. 

**Do you think that’s a requirement?**<br>
I would think if it was a requirement it would be in red or blue or something that captures your attention. I wouldn’t think it would be a dealbreaker. 

**I’ll navigate down**<br>
Yes, so the box is really helpful “is, and then” and it makes it easy for me to know right off. The getting started

**To know if you’re eligible?**<br>
Yes, that makes it really easy. I like the bolded sections because my eyes go right to that. So it’s really helpful to show the important pieces of it. So, yeah. 

**I’ll try to quickly scroll down here. Based on this form compared to what you saw online, do you have a preference?**<br>
I would probably like the one online just because it captures the information and it’s saving it so if I stop and come back to it, it’s there. I don’t have to worry about this form being lost, stained, ruined, just the basic stuff. I like online because it keeps me focused on this section, this section, this section and lets me know how close I am to being done. With this you don’t know how long it’s gonna take you. If my husband was filling it out he would prefer the paper version. 

**Why would that be?**<br> 
He has to read something five or six times, process it, and come back to it. He’s real hands on. He’s gonna keep a copy of that with him and if something comes up he’s gonna reread the application. Where as me I won’t know if it asked me that on the application and I would look it up. 

**When you got to the signature part, how would you deal with that on the paper form?**<br>
I would go to him with the application and say I need the signature and he would glance at it and sign. He would just trust I am making the best choices and being as honest as I could. 

**What do you think the hardest part of the online form was?**<br>
The hardest part of the online form would be getting started. Just getting started, realizing it’s gonna take 15 minutes and it was that simple. Just actually clicking and getting engaged. I know it says somewhere that it takes 15 minutes to apply but it was very easy and fast, basic information that you ask. I think that once you get started it was very easy. 

**You would prefer the online version mostly because you could save but your husband would prefer paper form. Just to clarify, when you’re engaging with the online form and you wanna share what you’re putting in with your husband how would you go about doing that?**<br>
I would have a casual conversation with him. All day long we come up with different topics and we’re constantly recapping and closing loops so I would go up and ask him. Or if it’s something I need to run by him… we would go back and forth about subjects. I think that would be the easiest way to do it. The more I talk about it the more frustrated he comes. So I would try to make it simple.

**Any questions for me?**<br>
No, I just.. the application online is just a lot more simple from what I’ve heard. I don’t know if it’s just been transitioned or whatever but I’ll let them know my experience with this survey and how easy it was to fill out. They’ve been caregivers for years so maybe it’s gotten better with you guys being able to do that.
