# Note Taking Template for Caregiver MVP Usability Study

P6, 1/20, 2pm


## Intro - 5 minutes

**Moderator:** Thanks for joining us today! My name is Shawna/Jonathan and I also have some colleagues on the line observing and taking notes. Today we're going to talk about federal benefits that are provided to family members or caregivers of disabled veterans. 

**Participant:** OK (confirms she can hear)

Before we start, a few things I want to mention:

- This entire session should take about 45 minutes. I want to be sure not to keep you much longer, so I may occasionally prompt you with the next question or topic.
- In this session, we want to hear your honest opinions. We are not testing your ability. We just want to improve these tools to better meet Veteran's needs. I will not be offended by any opinions you express, and I welcome your feedback.
- You'll be interacting with a prototypes and a demo tool. This is a demo tool that may not function exactly the way you expect. Some areas of the prototype will be clickable, and some will not. Since it's a demo, none of your actions will affect your actual VA information or benefits.
- If for any reason and at any time you want to stop the session, please let me know.
- Are you comfortable if I record my screen and audio as we talk today? We use the recordings to confirm that we have captured your opinions accurately. The recordings are destroyed after we complete analysis, and none of your comments will be attributed to you directly. 
  - If yes: Once I start recording, I am going to confirm that you are ok with me recording this session once more. 

*Start recording.*

- I have started recording. I'd like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record my screen the audio as we talk today?" 

## Warm-up Questions - 5 minutes

**Moderator: Can you tell me a little about yourself? (If stuck, ask about location, occupation, etc.)**

**Participant:** Sure. Um, uh, I'm married to my husband, uh [name], he is 66 he has fronteral termporal degeneration and ALS, and uh, I'm 58 and I retired from ministry a little over a year ago so I can take care of him.

**Moderator:** Are you currently receiving caregiver benefits?

**Participant:** No, my husband is Vietnam era and I understand its post nine-one-one

- For Caregivers:
  - **Moderator: Do you currently live with your veteran?**
  - **Participant:** Until week before last, yes, but I've placed him in the state veterans home.
  - **Moderator: Do you receive benefits from the VA?**
  - **Participant:** He was receiving benefits before going in, and he still is

**Moderator: **Did you go through the application process for caregivers at all, or did you explore..?

**Participant:**   I looked into, obviously I am getting CHAMPVA and other benefits that way. I did check into the caregiver benefits and looked into 'other benefits' [notetaker missed verbatim] but I didn't see any point in applying for the stipend when it wasn't available for..

## First Task: [Determining preferred location for Caregiver application] - 5 minutes

*moderator talking P through screen sharing set-up. She's using 2 screens and unsure which screen to share in Zoom controls.*

**Moderator: I'm sure this is a page you're familiar with.**

**Participant:** yes

**Moderator:** *"Let's say you heard about a way you/your caregiver could receive benefits from the VA, and that you could apply online at VA.gov.  You have navigated to VA.gov and now want to find the application. Show us where you would go to find it."*

**Participant:** Okay, well, let's see.  I would probably, I'm looking - healthcare doesn't sound right, though that's a possibility. Education and records would definitely not be right. So it's probably under healthcare or disability.  Check our claim or status, that doesn't sound right (reads list under disability) none of those sound right. Let me look over here at healthcare...*looks down list* none of those look right either.

**Moderator: ... none of those subcategories seem to fit what you're looking for?**

**Participant:** No

**Moderator:** If you didn't see it under there, is there anywhere else you'd look at?

**Participant:** *scrolls down*  I'd go down here (to grid w/ links below main section on landing page).... maybe under family member benefits?

**Moderator:** If you'd click on that, you can go ahead and click on that

**Participant:** *clicks and scrolls.*  I'm looking for the caregiver stipend, is that what i'm looking for?

**Moderator:** Anything for caregiver, really, 

**Participant:** You can see I've already been here *(mouses over visited links in section)*...clicked on Program of comp. assistance for family caregivers. *clicks and scrolls up and down the page*

this is where I stop *mouses over eligibility criteria* ... see where it says 2001, that doesn't apply to me. *agrees that is where she would expect to find application info*

**Moderator:** *chats another link* and if you could continue sharing and open that up.  Let's just say you did find that location on the page, and you click



## Second Task: [First impressions / thoughts] - 5 minutes

**Moderator: Now you've found the location and landed on this page. What are your first impressions? Are you / your caregiver eligible to receive these benefits?  How do you know?  Which parts were most useful on this page?**

**Participant:** I'm just kind of reading what I see here, I'll try and say what I think.  Um...*looking at screen* I'm just reading up here, save time, same your work in progress, how to apply, you can save your application in progress, after 60 days you'll delete the form. You can sign in to start your application or you can start w/ out signing in.  You sign in after you start, you won't be able to save.

Knowing me I'd probably start without signing in just to see what was required.  

**Moderator:** So you mentioned, signing in to start your application, you noticed that button. You said you'd probably start w/out signing in. Can you tell me more

**Participant:**Just to look through it and see what info is needed and all of that, just to see what it is. I would prob not start filling it in until I signed in, because I wouldn't want to have to start again.

If I clicked sign in, I'd expect a log in to come up.  *States she does have a log in.*

**Moderator:** Would you log in under your account or your husbands?

**Participant:**That's a good question, normally...I'm not sure I know my login, I hope it's saved on my computer. I generally log in as hum to do everything I do because it's mostly his benefits that I'm working on. The only time I log in with my own is for meds or something< meds by mail. I don't know. I guess my first thought would be signing in...I don't know. I might try both to see.

**Moderator:** If you just navigate, scroll down the page, is there...would you know as a caregiver you're eligible to receive benefits or take part in this program? Just by looking at this page, as a caregiver would you know if you were eligible to receive benefits or take part in the program.

**Participant:**. Mmm hmm...*reads content on screen in the `can I `box..* I mean just by that, I would say, yes, I do. ALS is a presumptive diagnosis, it was aggravated in the line of duty, or caused, I don't know, and he does need assistance with all of his ADLs. Yeah, I would say, it looks like I would qualify.  

**Moderator:** Overall, scaning ithis page, what parts are most useful?

**Participant:** What benefits can I get with the program? That's very important. Caregiver education and training, a monthly stipend since I had to retire from my job to give him full time care, that would've been very nice. *reads travel benefit*  I do know that there's the fisher house and we've used the fisher house in the past. The beneficiary travel, we had been going to see the VA for almost a year before someone explained we were eligible for that, but ... [garbled audio]... CHAMPVA was another thing, since I was going to retire, the CHAMPVA was really important to me.

**Moderator:** You might need more info on the travel lodging. Is there anything you'd click on if you wanted more info about a benefit on this page? 

**Participant:** Obviously, it says learn more about CHAMPVA so I'd click there. *mouses over `additional info` style link on this page*



## Third Task: [Filling out the form] - 10 minutes

**Moderator: Now let's say you/your caregiver is eligible and you've decided you'd like to apply for these benefits. Go ahead and show us what you would do to apply**

**Participant:** 

First I'm going to read the steps.  I tend to just jump right into things, I wouldn't have necessarily scrolled all the way down, and now that I see this *(subway map)* I'm going to read this first to see if I have everything I need. *scrolls and reads subway content aloud*

Now I will say the medical center where the veteran receives care, 3-4 months ago, that wouldn't have been a problem. I was still able to get him and out, I would say 30 days before I placed him in the state Veterans home, that wouldn't have been possible.  We had to cancel an appt. 2 hours away because that wouldn't have been possible.

I'd click on `sign in` to start the application. *Button is not clickable in prototype*. Because I read a little bit more about what I needed (would be ready to start w/ sign in vs not sign in)

*Moderator gives initial impressions prompt*

**Participant:** *scrolls and reads*  That's all about him.  States she'd have all that information on the veteran, including SSN.

*Clicks medical continue button to continue, scrolls and reads aloud* "yeah, I would have all that" Clicks into the address line

**Moderator:** I want to draw your attention to the medical center clinic. How would you engage with these couple fields here?

**Participant:** *Clicks on state field*, It's pretty straightforward	I would absolutely know this info. The first thing my husband was diagnosed with was FTD, I've been deeply involved in everything with him, all the appts, in fact he hasn't driven since 2016, so obviously I'm there.

*Clicks and scrolls, reads aloud* This is all about me. I would have this information obviously.  That's close to my birthday!

*(next screen, reads content)* Yes, I know all of this

*(next screen, reads content)* *Clicks on `primary caregiver's relationship`*, Well, I'm the spouse.  Are you assuming that I'm not already in CHAMPVA? At this point I do have that so...I did try to check that box. And no, I'm not covered by other health insurance. And no, I don't have a secondary caregiver.

**Moderator:** About the secondary family caregiver. You were pretty "NO, I'm the primary caregiver, I don't have a secondary."  Do you have any questions about what a secondary caregivier is?

**Participant:** I don't have any questions about what that is, I'm the only one taking care of things around here. I might take a look at that, because my daughter lives a mile away, and ... other family... in [a city 2 hours away].  

**Moderator: **How would you find more information about a secondary caregiver?

**Participant:** Well, I would click on that, or I noticed on the first form, at the very beginning, that it had something about primary and secondary.

**Moderator:** so, you could go ahead and click continue. What are your intial thoughts on this page

**Participant:** Reading the statement of truth, seeing what he's certifying too. And then, lets's see I'd read the primary caregiver or family ,member statement of truth, *reading aloud, scrolling down* I understand the veteran may revoke my designation...remove me from this position...does not include employment relationship;...okay yeah, all of that makes sense.

**Moderator:** *guides participant back up to veteran or service member statement*... go back

**Participant:** Yeah, I would click there *(accordion)*

**Moderator:** If you were filling out this form, would you just be doing it, would you be doing it with your husband, the veteran, together?

**Participant:** I'd be doing it. I have POA for my husband, and he trusts me, so I would just do it. I would let him know and say hey bud, I'm doing this. But I'd do it.

**Moderator:** Did you have any questions while you were reading through primary caregiver?

**Participant:** I understand that first one...*reads aloud down the list* that makes sense... "would want to know what those program requirements are" Probably my question would be what are the program requirements and the other one would be because I'm getting homemaker services from the VA, would they take those away because I'm doing this? Especially toward the end here, I've been needing more help and more help and more help. And if I came in here and signed this and then they took my help away. NO.



## Third Task: [understanding next steps] - 5 minutes

**Moderator: Now that you submitted the form, what do you think are the next steps in this process?** 

**Participant:** assuming somebody is going to check it out, and I'm assuming that's just like everything else at the VA, someone will check it out and if they need more information they'll let me know.  *reads content aloud* That's all pretty straightforward. I would expect someone to make an appointment to come out and see us, make sure we're not living in a cardboard box.  

**Moderator:** while you're still looking at this form here, and it's freshin your mind, what do you think the hardest part of the online form was for you?



## Post-Task Interview - 5 minutes

**Moderator: Great. A few last questions:**

**Moderator: What do you think was the hardest part of that process?**

**Participant:**I didn't see any problems with it. I'm very tech savvy so none of that was an issue for me.  

**Moderator: What worked well?**

**Participant:**Well, I love that it's an online form. I much prefer to do the things online so I can do it and get it out of my court, and find an envelope and mail it in, or fax.

**Moderator: I'm going to quickly show you the paper form.  Based on going through this flow, would you prefer to fill out this form online or on this paper form? Why?**

**Participant:** *states she hasn't seen this before* *but it looks like the other ones.*  I see these descriptions, definitions, power of attorney *reading aloud* 

Do you like the definitions there Do you find that helpful?

**Participant:** I mean, they all make sense.  *reads secondary caregiver info aloud*

**Moderator:** that answer that question, about your daughter?

**Participant:** Kind of. What do you mean as a back-up? As far as respite purposes? An emergency back up? What does that actually entail?

*Moderator continues to scrolls down to the next page, Participant reads content aloud, states she's reading the content aloud* That all makes sense.  This is all very similar to the online form, it's just in a fillable PDF it looks like.

I would tell him what we were doing, I would fill it out on my own. He wouldn't have had the ability to sit and watch me fill out the form. 

**Moderator:** How would you handle the signature that's on the paper form?

**Participant:** If I have to do, I've already had to fill out a form saying that I have the authority to sign things for him. 

**Moderator:** Based on the flow of this paper form, and I know we scrolled through it quickly, do you have a preference between the paper or online form? It's all about the same, the only difference would be the signature? I see the signature line isn't a fillable form, so does that mean I have to print it and mail it ? Like I said I'd prefer to do everything online.

**Moderator: Any questions for me?** 

**Participant:** I guess, I'm assuming that all of this is having to do with getting this rolled out to the other eras. I will tell you that those of us who are in other eras feel very much left out. Especially the Vietnam era, our spouses weren't treated well when they were in the service, and it just seems like it's another ding that they're not being taken care of now.  By the time this gets rolled out, my husband will have probably died. That's kind of the situation I'm in.  

However, I am grateful for what we have. The disability compensation we have has made it possible for me to take care of him and all of that has made it possible for me to be his full time caregiver, so I can't complain too much. 

**Moderator:** If you could log into your own caregiver account what would you want that to look like (paraphrased questions)

**Participant:** There it would be nice to be able to, well, I can get into all of his records. In my case like I said, I have full POA so I just generally get on and interact for him I do know that if I didn't have that, if I was a caregiver, I'm able to get on and see all of my husbands records. If I was logging in as myself, it'd be nice to do it that way. It'd be nice to have support groups available there. And maybe some plain language explanations of different things. A lot of times when I'm looking for information I'm sent to a legal document with all this legal jargon...one of the ladies in my support group has done that, ... has ALS, and she said "if you've got ALS, this is what you need to know". She put it in plain language.  

I will warn you my contractor just drove up..just being able to have information on programs, and the support, and maybe even some, how to deal with dementia issues, a lot of time. [garbled audio], what are some of the things we need to do as caregivers to care for our person.

## Thank-You and Closing - 5 minutes

**Moderator: Well we really appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us today. Your feedback is so helpful to us as we continue to work on the site and make sure it really works for Veterans.**

**Thanks! Lastly, do you know any other Veterans, caregivers, or service members who might be willing to participate in a future user research session?**
    


Great, well thank you so much again, and enjoy the rest of your day!
