# Note Taking for Caregiver MVP Usability Study

P7, Jan. 21, 2020, 11 a.m. ET

## Intro 

**Moderator:** Well, first of all, thank you for joining us today. Would you mind sharing your video?

**Caregiver:** Sure.

**Moderator:** Like I said, my name is Jonathan and I also have some colleagues on the line taking notes and observing. Today we&#39;re going to talk about the federal benefits that are provided to family members or caregivers of disabled vets.

**Caregiver:** OK.

**Moderator:** Sound good? Before we start, I want to mention a few things.

**Caregiver:** OK.

**Moderator:** This entire session should take about 45 minutes. I want to be sure not to keep you any longer than that, so I may occasionally prompt you with the next question or kind of change topics. So just so you know that&#39;s why that is.

**Caregiver:** No worries., Jonathan.

**Moderator:** Great. In a few minutes you&#39;re going to be interacting with a prototype. A lot of it will be functional; you&#39;ll be able to click on buttons, but not all of it will be functional like a website, just so you&#39;re aware of that. In this session we really want to hear your honest opinions; you&#39;re not going to offend me or someone else on the line, so we&#39;re really using this session to improve the tools and the design, so honest feedback is more than welcome.

**Caregiver:** OK.

**Moderator:** And with that being said, it&#39;s really important to kind of talk out loud as you are going through whatever task I have you do. So, &quot;Now I click on this because of this reason.&quot; And that just helps us understand what you&#39;re thinking when you&#39;re engaging with the prototype or the website.

**Caregiver:** OK, I will think out loud.

**Moderator:** All right, awesome. And if for any reason you want to stop the session, just please let me know and we can do that. Are you comfortable if I record the audio and the screen?

**Caregiver:** No problem I&#39;m completely comfortable.

**Moderator:** Great. And that will be destroyed after we analyze it and get whatever data we need from that. So, I&#39;m going to go ahead and start recording and once I start recording, I&#39;m going to confirm again that you&#39;re OK with me recording.

**Caregiver:** Get that one the recording.

**Moderator:** All right, awesome. Thank you so much. Give me one second here.

_Start recording._

**Moderator.** OK. I&#39;ve started recording, and I&#39;d just like to confirm that you are comfortable if I record my screen and audio.

**Caregiver:** Absolutely, Jonathan. I&#39;m OK with you recording.

## Warm-up Questions 

**Moderator:** So, let&#39;s just get started. Can you tell me a little about yourself?

**Caregiver:** I&#39;m the caregiver for a combat-wounded Marine and I wanted to participate in this to see how the federal benefits are presented and how you might apply for them through the Department of Veterans Affairs.

**Moderator:** Great. Thank you so much for sharing that. So, you said you are a caregiver; are you receiving caregiver benefits currently?

**Caregiver:** No. I have gone through the VA caregiver program in another state and when we moved to Texas, I left the program voluntarily and now I&#39;m thinking I might need the benefits and that support again.

**Moderator:** So, you did go through that application process in the previous state you were living at?

**Caregiver:** Yes, many years ago.

**Moderator:** Gotcha, gotcha. And are there any other family members or caregivers of the Veteran?

**Caregiver:** No, it&#39;s just myself and my son who live with the Veteran. While we don&#39;t like to say he caregives, he does provide some extra support for his dad as well.

**Moderator:** And just out of curiosity, how old is your son?

**Caregiver:** He is 11.

**Moderator:** OK, gotcha. And do you currently live with Veteran, your husband?

**Caregiver:** Yes, I&#39;ve lived with him all along.

**Moderator:** Awesome. And I know I already asked about the caregiver, are you receiving any other benefits from the VA, currently?

**Caregiver:** No, I&#39;m not.

**Moderator:** And what about your husband?

**Caregiver:** Yes, he receives his whole care from the VA and is very involved. He goes to the CVAC and the greater VA hospitals, and health options here and there.

**Moderator:** Thank you so much for sharing; that helps give us a lot of context.

## First Task: [Determining preferred location for Caregiver application]

**Moderator:** So, we&#39;re going to hop into the first task, and what I&#39;m going to do is chat you the link for VA.gov.

**Caregiver:** OK.

**Moderator:** And if it&#39;s easier, just open it up in your browser. I&#39;m going to ask you to share your screen with us.

**Caregiver:** OK. Are you seeing it all right?

**Moderator:** Yep. Great. So, let&#39;s say you heard about a way that you could receive benefits from the VA through the caregiver program and you could apply online somewhere at VA.gov. You navigated to this site and now you want to find the application. Can you just kind of navigate and show where you might find it?

**Caregiver:** Sure. So, when I see this pop up, I see that it&#39;s all for Veterans. I don&#39;t see anything about family or caregivers, so I would just click this because that&#39;s not for me. So, if I was looking for something for caregivers, the first thing I would do is go to this (search) box and just type in caregiver and see what it referred to. So, search VA.gov, and the top recommendations are the Program for Comprehensive Assistance for Family Caregivers and post 9/11, which is my exact situation, I&#39;d also scroll down to make sure there wasn&#39;t something that fit better. So &quot;family and caregiver health care benefits,&quot; that&#39;s not really what I&#39;m looking for; &quot;VA benefits for spouses, dependents, survivors and family caregivers,&quot; this might work better for me because it also says the spouse piece as well as the caregiver, and I know that we also have dependents in my home, as I said my son. I would notice that this website is completely dedicated to caregivers and VA.gov. But I would probably click on this top recommendation because the VA says it&#39;s the top recommendation.

**Moderator:** So, you navigate to this site and, yeah, if you could tell me …

**Caregiver:** OK. So, I would scroll through this, &quot;If your family member…&quot; OK. &quot;We want to support you,&quot; – so I know I&#39;m in the right place. OK, can I get benefits in the program? OK. &quot;Both of these must be true,&quot; – so I would make sure. &quot;Have a serious injury including traumatic brain injury,&quot; – that&#39;s exactly what my husband has, as well as psychological trauma. And he did serve after 9/11 and he needs personal care services for activities of daily living and also needs supervision or protection. So, I would find out if I qualify and I would download an application. So, I just click here?

**Moderator:** Um, you don&#39;t have to right now. Actually, the link to the online application doesn&#39;t exist yet.

**Caregiver:** Oh, OK.

**Moderator:** We just kind of wanted to see where you would navigate to find that link, but no, that was super-helpful, so thank you.

## Second Task: [First impressions / thoughts]

**Moderator:** So, I&#39;m going to go ahead and chat you another link. It should be there.

**Caregiver:** OK, I&#39;ll share my screen after I open it.

**Moderator:** That would be great, thank you.

**Caregiver:** OK, so we&#39;re at &quot;Apply for caregiver benefits?&quot;

**Moderator:** Yeah. So, let&#39;s say you found the link and you decided that you are eligible, that you do meet those requirements and that you&#39;d like to go ahead and apply for the benefits.

**Caregiver:** OK, the first thing is that I see it says &quot;10-10 caregiver&quot; or &quot;10-10CG&quot; and I have heard caregiver coordinators refer to that form and I&#39;ve heard that&#39;s the form that you need to fill out in order to apply for this program specifically through the VA, and that&#39;s the special VA form number. That&#39;s really exciting to see because otherwise I would have probably come up to the search bar and searched for 10-10CG.

**Moderator:** Gotcha. And I know you mentioned that the caregiver coordinator, and is that from previous when you applied to the program or is that other dealings with the VA?

**Caregiver:** I know I had to fill out at paper form of that before, so I am familiar with it, but in other caregiver circles or other networks in a peer environment, that question comes up all the time: &quot;How do you do it? What&#39;s the form number?&quot; Caregivers are really used to that because there&#39;s a lot of forms that you need for your veteran. It makes sense that there&#39;s a proper form that&#39;s numbered just for caregivers.

**Moderator:** And can you tell me about your overall impressions about this page? I know you already spoke to the 10-10CG.

**Caregiver:** I like it. It&#39;s clean. I like these blue bars that kind of explain. In the previous screen it was very similar; it has this shaded background and kind of spoke to the eligibility and this one here kind of speaks to what&#39;s going to happen and then you can sign in to start your application right here.

Can I ask a question? Would I be signing in with my own credentials or would I be signing in with my Veteran&#39;s credentials?

**Moderator:** Yeah, so what would you, if you did go ahead and click to sign in to start your application, what would you do if you were filling this out?

**Caregiver:** Well, I would probably automatically start with my husband&#39;s my HealthyeVet sign-in or his DS log-in, all the stuff that I&#39;ve just trained as a caregiver to access his health care, his prescriptions, his appointments, things like that. So that would be the top of my mind that it&#39;s connected to that. But then also I would be like, &quot;Well, this isn&#39;t really for him, it might be for me and I need my own.&quot;

**Moderator:** Do you have your own account with the VA where you can log in?

**Caregiver:** No.

**Moderator:** Got it. That totally makes sense. And just like, quickly, if you did have your own log-in, what would you expect to see there? What would you want to see there?

**Caregiver:** If I had my own log-in, I would want to see the person I&#39;m caring for, I would want to see his appointments and I would want to see his prescriptions, the things that I manage online anyway. But maybe I&#39;d like to see the benefits that I&#39;m eligible for, if there&#39;s a stipend then maybe there&#39;s access to the payment history. Or a place to ask questions. If I have access to my own mental health care through the VA, perhaps those appointments could be in there. But I would also like to see a feature where I could communicate with my Veteran&#39;s providers. Maybe if there&#39;s an issue, maybe there&#39;s a medication challenge or something like that where I could speak as the caregiver, identifying fully as that but being a part of the care team and being able to communicate with his providers in the role as a caregiver, would be most helpful.

**Moderator:** And just getting back to this page that you&#39;re looking at, as caregiver, would you know if you were eligible to take part in this program.

**Caregiver:** Yes, from the previous screen it really did spell out that you have to have served post 9/11 and you have to help to help with ADL or protection.

**Moderator:** So, from the previous screen you got all that information, but not so much from this screen?

**Caregiver:** I&#39;m not seeing eligibility. If someone sent someone this link and said, &quot;Hey, you&#39;re a caregiver, fill this out,&quot; I don&#39;t see any of the eligibility terms for the program.

**Moderator:** Great. So just kind of, and you might have already spoke to this – I&#39;m going to prompt you, you can navigate down a bit – is there any parts of this page that you find useful?

**Caregiver:** So, it does have the &quot;Find out if you qualify.&quot; And I&#39;d probably click on that to make sure and I see it takes me to a screen. So, this screen doesn&#39;t look like the other two screens that you&#39;ve shown me so I might be in the wrong place, or that this took me to a different website altogether and maybe I&#39;ve lost any part of the other page where I was looking to apply.

**Moderator:** Maybe you navigated away from it and kind of lost it?

**Caregiver:** Mm-hmm.

**Moderator:** OK. That totally makes sense. Can you go back to the intro page – yeah, you can close that out. Anything else you kind of want to say about this page you are looking at?

**Caregiver:** I really like this &quot;You may receive,&quot; – I like managing expectations because everyone&#39;s care journey is different. Some caregivers might be looking at CHAMPVA, for example, or help with travel and lodging. I think that the monthly stipend is one of the main incentives for people to apply so maybe that belongs at the top. That way you would be, &quot;No. 1 reason that you&#39;re applying for this program, follow the steps below.&quot; I love following the steps, I feel like this is really helpful. So for me, I probably would just click on the application and get started and if I had any questions I would pop back out, so this may need a different placement on the page, maybe more at the top to walk people through the expectations and what it looks like to do this. I this at the bottom but maybe this whole section could be at the top. Sort of to save time.

**Moderator:** That totally makes sense.

**Caregiver:** Managing the expectations right away, I might not scroll all the way down if I started my application right here and I think it&#39;s really important to manage those expectations and spell out the steps as well as what&#39;s happening behind the scenes, not just while I&#39;m typing this application.

## Third Task: [Filling out the form]

**Moderator:** So, let&#39;s say you wanted to go ahead and apply. Can you show me what you would do to apply?

**Caregiver:** I would go into here.

**Moderator:** That&#39;s OK.

**Caregiver:** OK, &quot;Start your application without signing in.&quot; This is what it would look like.

**Moderator:** Right. So, I know you already talked about how …

**Caregiver:** So, I created this sign-in and this is where I would sign in. Right?

**Moderator:** Yes. I know you clicked on the &quot;Sign in to start your application&quot; first. Can you tell me, I know you said you would probably log in under your husband&#39;s account, but can you tell me why you clicked on that?

**Caregiver:** Why I clicked on that? Because the button&#39;s shape, if you noticed it was in blue thing and you just go ahead, it&#39;s the natural click point to begin the application. Underneath there&#39;s &quot;To apply without signing in.&quot; That kind of seems like you don&#39;t have all the information or you&#39;re not doing it with all the proper steps, so you make sure you sign in before you do it, but it is nice if you were really frustrated and of all the million log-ins you forgot that one for whatever reason you could start the application without logging in, that would be helpful, too.

**Moderator:** Great, thank you. So now you&#39;ve arrived on this form. Can you just kind of talk out loud? First impressions of the page and what you&#39;re seeing here?

**Caregiver:** Yeah. It&#39;s very obvious you would enter the service member&#39;s information first. Anything with the VA I&#39;m always expecting to enter the Veteran&#39;s information…

**Moderator:** OK. Oh, go ahead, I&#39;m sorry.

**Caregiver:** The name that goes with the Social Security number, there may need to be a thing that goes with the reason why you&#39;re asking for that. People are always very sensitive sharing that. Maybe if you hit &quot;required&quot; and it tells you why?

**Moderator:** Yeah. Well, it doesn&#39;t in that case but that totally makes sense what you&#39;re saying. OK, so now that you&#39;ve clicked into it, it&#39;s auto-populated the information. Are there any fields, any questions about the information? Would you know all the information from the Veteran on this page?

**Caregiver:** I would know all of the information for my husband whom I&#39;m the caregiver of.

**Moderator:** And you can go ahead and show me what you would do next.

**Caregiver:** OK. So, after I enter all this information I would hit continue. So, OK, I&#39;m now at all the information about the address and phone number. One thing here, Veterans often have their caregivers listed as the primary phone number and don&#39;t have their own phone number listed. They don&#39;t answer the phone, or they have memory issues or TBI. They just don&#39;t use the telephone. Maybe having the caregiver or maybe a place for a phone number – I will be honest; I list my own phone number in for every time because I know my husband prefers it that way and it makes it easier. There&#39;s something about phone numbers, maybe, &quot;Please use this phone number that&#39;s used for the veteran&#39;s care.&quot; This might get confusing.

**Moderator:** Yeah, I get what you&#39;re saying.

**Caregiver:** It&#39;s the same with email addresses. Sometimes you use the Veteran&#39;s email address but sometimes you use the caregiver&#39;s email address or shared email address. &quot;The email address that supports the Veteran&#39;s care,&quot; or whatever.

**Moderator:** OK. So, you can go ahead and show me what you would do to fill in that information?

**Caregiver:** From here?

**Moderator:** Yeah.

**Caregiver:** OK. So, I would do the address, town, the state – it&#39;s going to pick Ohio.

**Moderator:** And can you tell me a little about that field that you were just engaging with? The name of the VA medical center. Is that something you would know or something you would have to look up?

**Caregiver:** I would know that right off the top of my head. The center or clinic – that might be a little, the name where he receives his care? My husband receives care at multiple VA clinics so maybe the center can be the medical center – maybe there needs to be a little more understanding about what that is and if there was a drop-down thing that linked. Instead of the state, maybe it linked by zip code and then you could see the big medical center as well as all the clinics and community partners that also work with that clinic. With community care it&#39;s not necessarily a VA facility where he&#39;s going to do everything but he may need physical therapy from a community-based provider that could be shown here, so maybe another button showing what he may be getting not at a VA medical center, but hoping to get care in the community.

**Moderator:** Thank you. And you can keep on going.

**Caregiver:** OK, this is the caregiver benefits piece. This secondary caregiver thing kind of always throws me for a loop right away. I understand the primary caregiver, but this is where the confusion comes for me. One, I think the primary caregiver might be a professional or someone who&#39;s coming into my house and I might be the secondary caregiver being a family member. So, it&#39;s hard to tell what that is. It&#39;s good that you have it so you can learn what these are, so here&#39;s its reminding you that it&#39;s a family member, which is really important, but that might be indicating that the primary caregiver is a family member, taking that professional piece out of it right away, so maybe saying what the role is? And then the secondary caregiver, is an individual approved, so is this a professional? Someone who generally serves as a backup. I&#39;ve got it backward in my mind. Because maybe his mom wants to be the secondary caregiver.

**Moderator:** Sure. And just taking a step back, when you first mentioned primary being the professional, can you tell me a little more about that?

**Caregiver:** Yes, there are caregivers at the VA that can come and assist through respite. You can have another caregiver come into the home and do activities of daily living with your Veteran. And if that person is the nurse, a health aide that comes into the home, that might be the mindset that I have about the primary caregiver. And then the secondary caregiver is someone I might think of myself more because I&#39;m not officially on the care team but I&#39;m certainly providing care and I&#39;m certainly the backup, fallback plan for all of the other caregivers that might not show up or might not be available. So maybe it puts me in that kind of secondary role.

**Moderator:** Right, I hear what you&#39;re saying. And when you click on the actual, primary and the secondary, then maybe you have that reversed.

**Caregiver:** In my mind, I had it reversed. The secondary caregiver looked like someone that might be more professional and someone who serves as a backup to the primary family caregiver. You see how &quot;family&quot; is used here? If that was used up here it would make it much clearer. Primary is the family caregiver and secondary might be someone else or be a professional.

**Moderator:** OK. That&#39; all make sense, thank you so much. So, you can keep on scrolling forward.

**Caregiver:** OK. I would have all of this information and then I would keep going. My address would be the same as the Veteran&#39;s, here, um, my phone numbers I would have no problem with any of these phone numbers. My email … my relationship with the Veteran … and then check all that the primary caregiver is currently enrolled in. OK? Right here?

**Moderator:** Right now, it&#39;s auto-populated, but you were going to click TRICARE. Were you going to click anything else?

**Caregiver:** No, just TRICARE. It&#39;s our main source of health insurance.

**Moderator:** And did that seem pretty straightforward or did you have any questions about the health coverage?

**Caregiver:** No, I don&#39;t. Coming from the military you&#39;re always going to ask what these are, and then my husband has Medicare and is and I know what CHAMPVA is and I know I don&#39;t qualify for that yet, but I use TRICARE and that covers everything, so I&#39;m totally comfortable just clicking TRICARE.

**Moderator:** Yeah, you can keep on going.

**Caregiver:** OK. No, I don&#39;t have any other insurance. OK, do I want to add a secondary family caregiver. I see that word &quot;family&quot; there that helps me. So, this is where I could add a secondary family caregiver but right now, I wouldn&#39;t want to so I would click &quot;no.&quot;

Review your application. I like this. I love this! These little pluses.

**Moderator:** Sorry, that&#39;s not clickable but I know that you went straight for that little plus sign. What would you expect to happen there?

**Caregiver:** It&#39;s all of the information that I entered for the service member or the Veteran, I would want that just to double-check. A lot of caregivers are really good at paperwork and we know that we need to make sure all of our Ts are crossed and all of our Is are dotted. You don&#39;t want to have the wrong Social number in there or mix up the date on a birthdate or hit the wrong date. So me, as a caregiver, I&#39;m always going to verify the information right in front that it&#39;s correct and true and accurate and I want to as many times as possible to verify that before I send it to the VA to avoid any complications down the road.

**Moderator:** Absolutely. So, I know you went ahead and clicked on that first. Let&#39;s say you reviewed all the information. Go ahead and show me what you would do next.

**Caregiver:** OK. So, this is the Veteran&#39;s or service member&#39;s statement of truth. So, this is where the Veteran would type this in theoretically. Up until now the caregiver has filled out all of this but now, we&#39;re going to bring in our Veteran to maybe show them what we&#39;ve put in, or explain what we&#39;re trying to do, and then would the Veteran would be expected to type their name? Or maybe you could type their name for them if that&#39;s an issue they need support with?

**Moderator:** How would you, as a caregiver, potential caregiver, how would you engage with that?

**Caregiver:** In full honesty I would never do anything behind my husband&#39;s back with his care, but I would probably just tell him, &quot;Hey, I&#39;m filling this out and I need to type your name. You need a caregiver and I&#39;ve entered the proper information.&quot; And then I would type his name for him.

**Moderator:** OK. You can go ahead and click in that field there.

**Caregiver:** OK.

**Moderator:** Just the name field and ... yep. What would you do next?

**Caregiver:** And then myself, I would read all of this thoroughly, and then I would put my name in here and I would understand.

**Moderator:** And just before you click submit, do you have any questions regarding the form. I&#39;m just wondering – you said you would read it, so yeah.

**Caregiver:** OK … So, the word &quot;designation&quot; and &quot;positions&quot; kind of seem a little funny here. And the Secretary of the Department of Veterans Affairs or designee may remove me from this position immediately. There may need to be a bit of rewording with that paragraph. Again, designating a primary family caregiver, you could be a family caregiver and have no designation from the VA. You might have been a caregiver for many, many years and now just because the VA is designating you that, it may be a little insulting to that role. Not sure why we need to have the Secretary remove you from the program if you fail to comply with the requirements, that seems a little scary and I know that this is a program that is usually managed by caregiver support coordinators who I think are more humbling-sounding or something to do with the caregiver program and it&#39;s not just the secretary of the VA that will remove you from something if you fail to comply with the program requirements as defined by law. And I know that it&#39;s probably a lot of legal things, but that&#39;s just my two cents.

**Moderator:** Absolutely. So, you can show me what you would go ahead and do next.

**Caregiver:** OK. So, I checked all of this and I would hit &quot;submit application.&quot; Love what pops up, &quot;Thank you for submitting your application&quot; and you can print a page for your records – I love that. I would save a PDF of this or take a screen shot and make sure I have this information – who I did it for, the date submitted, and then I love this! What happens next. And this looks like the same thing that they happened with the steps to apply. It gives you a little bit of the behind the scenes and it helps to manage expectations. I&#39;m not looking at this going, &quot;Someone from the VA is going to call me instantaneously to go over this.&quot; There will be a review and then the next steps will be a visit at the medical center, caregiver training and a home visit. So that all helps manage the expectations that I would have submitting this application. &quot;If you do not agree with the decision made to participate in the caregiver support program you can file a local or a VISN level appeal for a review.

One thing here that might be good would be &quot;You can file an appeal,&quot; but maybe how to file an appeal or more information about appeals. Manage expectations and give people all the information that they need. People are going to print this or screenshot it and save it for their files and it would be really nice to have that information on this page as well.

**Moderator:** OK, great. You can go ahead and stop sharing your screen.

## Fourth Task: [understanding next steps] -

**Moderator:** I know that you just talked about it, but now that we&#39;re not looking at the prototype anymore, you&#39;ve submitted the form, would you know what the next steps in the process are?

**Caregiver:** Yeah, I would expect that it&#39;s been reviewed by whoever I sent it to and they&#39;re going to reach out to me and there will be an appointment at a medical center with the veteran to go over the program and if we qualify. Then after that it&#39;s been approved, then there would be a home visit, there would be someone to come into the home. It doesn&#39;t say why. I am thinking it would be to ensure that the house is safe, to ensure the living conditions are up to date, that you have all of the necessary tools for medical needs in your home to provide the care to the Veteran. That&#39;s what I&#39;m thinking.

**Moderator:** Would you expect it to state why, to have that? I know you talked a lot about expectations.

**Caregiver:** It would be very, very helpful if that was outlined. Some people are very nervous about people coming into their home and that extra explanation about they are there in support of you and the Veteran, and speaking to some of the positive things that people are coming to check out your home and make sure you have everything you need and the home is set up the best it can be for the Veteran. It might help ease some anxiety about the home visits. That&#39;s one of the stress points of the application. It&#39;s like, &quot;Why do they have to come to my house?&quot;

**Moderator:** Absolutely.

## Post-Task Interview

**Moderator:** So, now that kind of went through the online form, can you can first think about any difficulties in that process? Any blockers as you were going through the online form?

**Caregiver:** Not really. It started with the Veteran information and that&#39;s standard anytime you are working with the VA and then it had the caregiver information. I would just a piece about the Veteran&#39;s phone number and email maybe explaining more thoroughly that the phone number needs to be the one that&#39;s the most primary for the Veteran&#39;s care, whether that&#39;s the Veteran&#39;s phone number or the caregiver&#39;s phone number. I&#39;ve seen some complications with that. I&#39;ve seen some forms that need to be filled out for providers to talk to other people, but especially if you are hoping to get the information for this program – is it going to go to the Veteran or is it going to go to the caregiver? Or does it go to both? You really have to understand how the communication is happening and why.

**Moderator:** Absolutely. And would you expect that that designation to happen? When you started that online application would you expect that you would designate, &quot;OK, I&#39;m the caregiver, so I&#39;m going to be the main source of contact for the doctors?&quot;

**Caregiver:** Absolutely. Some other things that the VA, it will say what time of day is it best to communicate with you and what time and what is the best means, whether is that phone or email? That might be very helpful in this too, for the purposes of this caregiver program, the best time to call is Tuesday mornings. And it&#39;s best to call the caregiver&#39;s cell phone or to email the Veteran and the caregiver together. Just that could help that communication because there&#39;s HIPPA requirements and it&#39;s based on very serious things but often it&#39;s the caregiver who is managing that and I think a lot of us want to see honest in how we&#39;re communicating. I&#39;m not trying to overstep or keep my husband out of his own health care, but for very real reasons I do all the communicating.

**Moderator:** Absolutely. I know you mentioned the phone number and maybe some clarity around that. Anything else that was kind of a blocker in going through that online form?

**Caregiver:** No.

**Moderator:** And was there anything that worked well, anything that you kind of liked about it?

**Caregiver:** I will say the review piece at the very end. They didn&#39;t open but those little plus signs, I know from other websites and testing that that&#39;s going to open up and provide me with an opportunity to once again review. I think there could be a place to say, you can print that page, but print this application so you do have the paper copy of it, whether you are going to have the paper copy or not, so that if you&#39;ve gone through all of this and for some reason it didn&#39;t work out, you could take that paper copy to the VA facility and say, &quot;This is what I started, can I give it to you to keep going?&quot;

Moderator: Gotcha. OK, great. I&#39;m going to go ahead and share my screen here.

**Caregiver:** OK.

**Moderator:** OK, can you see that?

**Caregiver:** Yes.

**Moderator:** OK. I just want to kind of quickly show you the paper form and you may remember this from the first time you applied for benefits. So, did you fill this form out?

**Caregiver:** I did. I remember the VA form at the bottom. There are a lot of caregivers that know how to identify certain things, or we&#39;re trained to look for the VA form, so that 10-10 and I&#39;m assuming CG means caregiver, but I have it set in my head.

**Moderator:** Gotcha. And when you filled this out and I know it&#39;s been a few years ago now, how did you fill it out? Did you fill it out on your own, together with the Veteran, with the caregiver support coordinator?

**Caregiver:** We actually filled this form out with our case manager, so my husband and I were both in the room and he actually filled out most of the things and we signed. He explained what the program was, and it was a huge benefit at the time. He walked us through it, not that it&#39;s hard to do but he just signed it and we went from there.

**Moderator:** So obviously, your husband signed where the Veteran was, and I know that you said, and I appreciate your honesty on the online form where you would click. Can you tell me about the difference there for you?

**Caregiver:** With this form you have the accountability of being in the room with the person and we had just been explained all of it. And it also might because we&#39;re married, I also sign tax returns and things. If you are the one who does that in the marriage than you are the one who takes on that administrative role. I do put things that need my husband&#39;s physically signature, I do physically get his signature, and I try to explain things to him if he doesn&#39;t have the comprehension to read long things, I tell him what it&#39;s about. I think it&#39;s just a convenience thing. My husband, luckily, trusts me that I&#39;m never trying to enroll him or put him in things that I think is a true benefit and that comes with the trust of being married. But I think because we were sitting in front of someone, they needed to see him physically sign it, whereas this if you were to reach out to my husband after the fact and say, &quot;Did you approve your wife to be a caregiver?&quot; he would say, &quot;Yes, absolutely.&quot;

**Moderator:** And all that makes tons of sense. Is there anything else that you really liked about the paper form?

**Caregiver:** No. The only challenge I&#39;ve seen with the paper form is that once you&#39;ve filled it out, it&#39;s really not clear about what to do with it. So, if you are new to this program you don&#39;t know that there are caregiver coordinators at every VA. We had a fantastic case manager who helped us with all of this, but can you mail it in? Can you fax it, still, the VA is still expecting faxes, I think? I heard other people talk about, &quot;Where do you even go after you&#39;ve filled it out? Do you mail it?&quot; There&#39;s just confusion about what to do with this paper copy, and it doesn&#39;t have the benefit of the time stamp, like this was submitted for this person at this date and time, whereas when we walked through the online version it said, &quot;You&#39;ve completed.&quot; So, I know I&#39;ve completed it and there was a confirmation that something went through and it gave me a date and a time stamp that I could refer back to if I needed. But the paper form could get lost, you know, you need to fill it out again, or one page didn&#39;t go through on the fax. It seems like there are lots of opportunities for it to get lost.

**Moderator:** Absolutely. All of that makes sense. So, based on your experience or seeing that paper form compared to the online form, would you have a preference?

**Caregiver:** All day long I&#39;m going to take the online form. That&#39;s my preferred way to do anything like that. I think electronic transmission, getting to the VA in that way, there was a little bit of a paper trail in the electronic one, anyway, where I could go back and prove that I submitted something. That seems to be a challenge at the VA, they tend to lose things and it&#39;s on you to prove that they sent it. So, I like to see online portals kind of take that out of your hand and create that right away for you. And I think my generation loves to do everything online. I don&#39;t have to talk to anyone, I can just fill this out, great.

**Moderator:** Absolutely. And just out of curiosity if you don&#39;t mind sharing, is there a particular reason why you haven&#39;t applied for caregiver benefits in Texas after you relocated there?

**Caregiver:** Some of it is due to, I want to this program to be available to as many people as possible, and when we moved to Texas there was an increase in my husband&#39;s capabilities and independence, so I didn&#39;t feel as if I needed the program. And now it&#39;s creeping back, and I have multiple VA appointments a week. The care needs are ticking up and I feel like I could benefit from it, but for me it&#39;s the home visits that we talked about. There are a lot of extra appointments that go into having this, and if I already don&#39;t have time where I have all the appointments that I&#39;m taking him to, I don&#39;t want to create a situation where we have to have visits for the caregiver program and going into a facility and having to come out, that all creates more time and tension and I&#39;ve just avoided it for the time being.

**Moderator:** That totally makes sense.

**Caregiver:** It&#39;s more relate to the care needs than the process of applying.

**Moderator:** Right, I hear what you&#39;re saying. So, we&#39;re about at time, so I&#39;ll wait to see if my colleagues have any questions, but while we&#39;re waiting, do you have any question for me, or thoughts about the caregiver program and what we just went through? Anything that I haven&#39;t asked you that you want to share?

**Caregiver:** One thing that, and this is true of any sharing of sensitive information like a Social or medical information, maybe a statement about the security would be helpful and would help manage, you know. Not everyone is comfortable sharing everything online and maybe they are more hesitant, so maybe there could be an explanation about the types of security and encryption and the use of the information? That might help people at ease when applying online. I don&#39;t recall seeing anything about the security, or, &quot;We&#39;re asking this but don&#39;t worry, it&#39;s encrypted. None of this is going to be shared outside the VA system.&quot; Those such things could really help the caregivers ease into applying online.

**Moderator:** Absolutely, I totally hear what you&#39;re saying and that makes a lot of sense.

## Thank You and Closing

**Moderator:** We are at time, so I really do appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts and going through the prototype with us. It will really help us to improve the designs moving forward.

**Caregiver:** Absolutely, and feel free to reach out if anything I said was unclear or if you need extra clarification. I want to see this successful.

**Moderator:** Awesome. Thank you so much and have a great rest of the day.

**Caregiver:** You too, thank you all.
