# Note Taking for Caregiver MVP Usability Study

P8, Jan. 21, 2020, 1 p.m. ET

## Intro

**Moderator:** My name is Jonathan and I also have some colleagues on the line observing and taking notes today. So, today we&#39;re going to go ahead and talk about federal benefits that are provided to family members or caregivers of disabled vets. Does that sound about right?

Before we get started, I just wanted to mention a few things. The entire session should take about 45 minutes; I don&#39;t want to keep you longer than that so I may occasionally prompt you to move on to the next task or interrupt you, just so you know the reason why.

And in a few minutes, you&#39;ll be interacting with a prototype. Some of it will be functional but it&#39;s not going to be fully functional. So, just so you know that you&#39;re not doing anything wrong, it will kind of act like a website, but it&#39;s not fully built out.

In this session we want to hear your honest opinions; we&#39;re not testing your ability at all. It&#39;s just your feedback, we&#39;re going to take it and improve the tools. So that being said, it&#39;s really helpful if you kind of think out loud when you&#39;re going through the process; tell us what you&#39;re thinking when you click on a button, if something makes sense or doesn&#39;t make sense, it&#39;s important if you tell us that.

For if any reason you want to stop the session just let me know. So, just a quick question. Are you comfortable if I record this screen and audio just for our purposes? It will be destroyed after that.

**Veteran:** That&#39;s fine.

**Moderator:** I&#39;m going to go ahead and start recording, and after I start recording, I&#39;m going to confirm again that it&#39;s OK.

_Start recording._

**Moderator:** So, I started recording and I&#39;d just like to confirm that you&#39;re comfortable with me recording the screen and the audio today?

**Veteran:** Absolutely.

## Warm-up Questions

**Moderator:** Can you tell me a little about yourself?

**Veteran:** I, um, I&#39;m the father of two children and three stepchildren, all grown up. I&#39;ve been married close to, it will be 23 years next month. It goes quick. I … I don&#39;t know what else.

**Moderator:** That&#39;s OK. Where are you located right now?

**Veteran:** I&#39;m in Wisconsin. Born and raised in Wisconsin.

**Moderator:** And are you a Veteran?

**Veteran:** Yes.

**Moderator:** Can you tell me a little, I know, we only have a few minutes, but like, when you served, when you got out?

**Veteran:** I went in the Army right after high school in 1984. And then I stayed in until 1990. During that time, I served in Operation Just Cause in Panama; then I got out and I became a machinist and I did that for several years until about 2001, when I re-entered the military. I served two tours in Iraq and got out in 2010.

**Moderator:** Thank you for sharing. That really helps to give us context for everything. Currently, do you have any caregivers?

**Veteran:** Yes, my wife.

**Moderator:** Do either one of you, are you receiving caregiver benefits through the VA?

**Veteran:** She is, yes.

**Moderator:** OK. Do you currently live together?

**Veteran:** Right, we&#39;re married.

**Moderator:** Right. Do you receive any other kind of benefits from the VA?

**Veteran:** Well, it&#39;s not from the VA but I get that CRSC.

**Moderator:** OK.

**Veteran:** That doesn&#39;t come from the VA, it&#39;s something else.

## First Task: [Determining preferred location for Caregiver application]

**Moderator:** Gotcha. All right. Thank you so much. So, what I&#39;m going to do, is I&#39;m going to chat you a link and I&#39;m going to ask you, it&#39;s just the VA.gov website and you might be familiar with it already. After you get that open, I&#39;m going to ask you if you can share your screen with us.

_Pause while the Moderator trains the Veteran on how to open the page and share his screen._

**Moderator:** So, let&#39;s say that you heard about a way that you or the caregiver could receive benefits from the VA and you wanted to apply online at VA.gov, where you&#39;re at now, and you navigated to the site, but you need to find out where the application is. Can you show us what you would do to find that application?

**Veteran:** Where would I find it at here?

**Moderator:** And again, if you could talk out loud that would be super-helpful.

**Veteran:** OK. I suppose I would try, uh, …

**Moderator:** What were you thinking you might try?

**Veteran:** Well, I was looking for something that would say &quot;caregiver&quot; or something. I&#39;m not too good at this stuff.

**Moderator:** No, no. That&#39;s OK. That&#39;s why we want to be talking to you.

**Veteran:** I would probably, just taking a guess … Uh, send a message to my health care team?

**Moderator:** OK.

**Veteran:** That&#39;s probably what I would click on.

**Moderator:** OK. And is there a particular reason why you thought that was the best option?

**Veteran:** You know the VA has been really good about, for us, anyway. With my health care team, I can always get answers from them. I would just send them a message, that&#39;s what I would do.

**Moderator:** That totally makes sense. And if I can prompt you to scroll down that page a little bit?

**Veteran:** OK.

**Moderator:** And see if there&#39;s anything else. …

**Veteran:** That I would select?

**Moderator:** Yes.

**Veteran:** Family health benefits, or family member benefits?

**Moderator:** No, no, no, there&#39;s no wrong answer. We&#39;re not testing you, so we just want to see where you would navigate to. So, the family member benefits, you would click on?

**Veteran:** Or service member benefits.

**Moderator:** OK. Yeah, that makes sense. And why did you first say family member benefits?

**Veteran:** Well, because my caregiver&#39;s family, so I guess that&#39;s the reason when I saw &quot;family,&quot; but that&#39;s not the case for everybody.

**Moderator:** Of course. You can go ahead and click on that &quot;family member benefits.&quot;

**Veteran:** OK.

**Moderator:** Yeah, and can you tell me a little bit about what you&#39;re seeing here?

**Veteran:** Well, this is referring to spouse or dependent child, qualifying for certain benefits like health or life insurance or money to help pay for school or training. So, I would have been wrong there, I guess.

**Moderator:** So, do you think that …

**Veteran:** It&#39;s right there, VA caregiver support program.

**Moderator:** OK, great. So, thank you so much, and that actual link does not exist yet. You can&#39;t apply for the program online right now, but I wanted to see where you would navigate. So that was super-helpful.

**Veteran:** Yeah, I guess I got lucky on that one.

## Second Task: [First impressions / thoughts]

**Moderator:** So that you&#39;ve found this location, I&#39;m going to go ahead and chat you another link.

_Pause while the Moderator trains the Veteran on how to open the prototype._

**Moderator:** So now let&#39;s say that you found on the website that you wanted to apply for the program and before you click on that, can you just tell me what your first impressions are?

**Veteran:** On this website?

**Moderator:** Yes, on this prototype here. This is the prototype that I sent over and let&#39;s say that, &quot;OK, I want to go ahead, I&#39;m curious about caregiver benefits.&quot; Can you tell me if you are eligible to receive benefits by viewing this page?

**Veteran:** Would I be able to …?

**Moderator:** Yes, you can scroll down. Don&#39;t click anything yet but read through it and tell me your first impressions of it regarding the caregiver program.

**Veteran:** Well, thinking out loud the first thing I see is a block to sign in to start your application, so that&#39;s very simple. I would probably start there, it&#39;s pretty much common sense.

**Moderator:** OK, you would click the &quot;sign in to start your application.&quot; Do you have an account with the VA.?

**Caregiver (off camera):** It&#39;s really old and I&#39;m not sure about the log-in.

**Moderator:** Gotcha. That totally make sense. You don&#39;t have to, and actually that doesn&#39;t link out to anything, I was just curious.

**Caregiver:** It&#39;s just a hard thing to navigate so we don&#39;t use it. We have Health Net and I found the name and the password.

**Moderator:** That&#39;s fine we don&#39;t need that for our purposes, it&#39;s just for our curiosity. But you do have it written down somewhere and you might start with signing in. Is there anything else in terms of the caregiver program?

**Veteran:** I don&#39;t know. This looks really simple to me. Anyone looking through this can find out what it&#39;s about, what kind of benefits there are from the program, how to apply, if you have any questions, it looks pretty simple.

**Moderator:** Yeah, yeah, and would you, by just looking at the page, would you know if you were able to be able to be part of the caregiver program?

**Veteran:** I imagine so because there&#39;s where you can click on where to learn more about it, you can learn about secondary caregiver, you can learn about injured in the line of duty, find out if I qualify. It&#39;s all here.

**Moderator:** Out of curiosity, you spoke to learning more about … Would you … yes, that all makes sense.

**Veteran:** Yeah, I would click on this to find out whether someone qualifies or what kind of training there is, how it works, stuff like that.

**Moderator:** Great. So just kind of overall before we move on to the next task, is there any part that you find really useful on this page, and maybe you already spoke to it.

**Veteran:** I see that it looks very useful.

**Moderator:** Are there any parts in particular that would be useful to you?

**Veteran:** Well, like I said it looks like any questions I might have I would find out right here. And there is number for a coordinator that I could call to talk to.

**Moderator:** All right, so let&#39;s say you viewed this page and you decided you wanted to apply for the program. Can you go ahead and show us what you would do to apply?

**Veteran:** On here?

**Moderator:** You can go ahead and click.

**Veteran:** The first thing I would do is, before I would start an application, I would find out if I qualified. And then I would click down here and … do you want me to go ahead and click on it to keep going?

**Moderator:** What would you expect to find there?

**Veteran:** I would find out if me as a disabled Veteran qualifies for this particular program, because I know that some programs, I may not qualify.

**Moderator:** OK. So first you would go to that &quot;find out if you qualify.&quot;

**Veteran:** Absolutely.

**Moderator:** And then let&#39;s say that you&#39;ve qualified, can you show me where you would go next?

**Veteran:** Well my next thing would be, I would go to learn more about primary caregivers, because I want to find out exactly, and after I find out if I qualified, I would want to know a little more about the program.

**Moderator:** OK, OK, gotcha. So specifically, about the primary caregiver, what kind of information would you want there, or expect.

**Veteran:** Well, it&#39;s pretty simple. It&#39;s all right below here. Your primary caregiver has the training, there&#39;s a monthly stipend, and maybe some travel. This is pretty well put together, in my opinion.

**Moderator:** OK, if you want to go ahead and proceed to the application, where you would go next?

**Veteran:** Right to the top, it&#39;s pretty obvious right there.

**Moderator:** Right, so you would go to the blue button that says, &quot;Sign in to start your application.&quot; I know your wife already brought over the log-in, so you would want to log in to that application. Is there any particular reason why you went to the sign-in to start your application, the blue button there?

**Veteran:** Well, when you first sent me this page, I noticed it right off the bat, it stood out.

**Moderator:** Sure, absolutely. So actually, for our purposes you can&#39;t sign in right now, but is there any other way you could proceed to the application that you can see?

**Veteran:** Well, if I clicked on that and nothing ever happened, just say something was wrong, so my next thing would be to call the number?

**Moderator:** Gotcha. That&#39;s super-helpful. And if you would just scroll back up, right below there&#39;s a link that says &quot;start your application without signing in.&quot;

**Veteran:** Right.

**Moderator:** You can go ahead and click on that, but did you see that at all?

**Veteran:** \&lt;unintelligible\&gt;

**Moderator:** OK.

## Third Task: [Filling out the form]

**Moderator:** Now that you&#39;re in the application, can you just tell me what you&#39;re seeing? First impressions?

**Veteran:** The first that I noticed is that this is Form 10-10 Charlie Golf. In being in the Army I always know what form I have.

**Moderator:** So, you do pay attention to that 10-10 Charlie Golf?

**Veteran:** It&#39;s a just a bit and I want to know what form I&#39;m filling out.

**Moderator:** And does that mean anything to you?

**Veteran:** Yeah, we used to put in 4187s and different forms…

**Moderator:** It&#39;s something you&#39;re used to …

**Veteran:** … different forms. Yeah, it&#39;s one of the first things that I notice. That&#39;s me

**Moderator:** OK. That&#39;s what we want. Anything else on this page? What would you do? How would you …

**Veteran:** How would I proceed? Well, you know, it looks pretty simple. I would start at the top and it looks like it&#39;s pretty self-explanatory. I would just fill it out and keep hitting continue.

**Moderator:** OK. So, you can go ahead and click into one of the fields, like the Veteran&#39;s name or something. It will auto-populate. So, you would have all this information, being the Veteran?

**Veteran:** OK.

**Moderator:** If you want to keep going, that would be great.

**Veteran:** OK.

**Moderator:** Same thing. What are you thinking when you see this page here?

**Veteran:** Very simple. Very simple.

**Moderator:** I noticed you clicked into one of the fields there. Do all of these fields make sense to you?

**Veteran:** Absolutely, yes.

**Moderator:** And one thing that didn&#39;t fill out is the name of the VA medical center. Can you kind of speak to how you would fill that out?

**Veteran:** Uh, well, I would probably hit, &quot;find locations&quot; by VA facilities.

**Moderator:** OK. It asks name of medical center or clinic where the veteran receives or plans to receive health care services. So, if you scroll, right there, the first thing you would do is to find the location with the VA facility locator?

**Veteran:** If I didn&#39;t know I would do that.

**Moderator:** Do you currently receive medical treatment at a VA medical center?

**Veteran:** Yes.

**Moderator:** Do you know the name of it?

**Veteran:** Yes.

**Moderator:** So, you can go ahead and click in the state field. What would you expect to happen if you were to click on those arrows there?

**Veteran:** I would pick a state.

**Moderator:** Right now, those are the only options.

**Veteran:** Yeah.

**Moderator:** Can you click into it again?

**Veteran:** Click into it again?

**Moderator:** Yeah. On the center or clinic?

**Veteran:** OK.

**Moderator:** And again, there are only a handful of options there.

**Veteran:** That would be the three that&#39;s in Ohio, I assume.

**Moderator:** Yeah. In terms of, so you know the name of your clinic, obviously, and the state that it&#39;s in.

**Veteran:** Yeah, I&#39;m there all the time so I&#39;m very familiar with the name and how to get there.

**Moderator:** Gotcha. OK, great. So, if you could go ahead, and what would you do next after that?

**Veteran:** Hit continue after all of this is filled in. … OK! Caregiver&#39;s information.

**Moderator:** Yeah. So, talk me through your thinking about this page.

**Veteran:** Well, I guess this would be whichever caregiver you select that you would want to take care of you, and it would be their information.

**Moderator:** OK. And this is asking for the name. Would you know all of this information about your caregiver if you were filling it out?

**Veteran:** Yes, I would.

**Moderator:** OK, you can go ahead and show me what you would do next.

**Veteran:** I would hit continue.

**Moderator:** OK, great.

**Veteran:** OK, same thing; more information about the caregiver, which I would know of this stuff.

**Moderator:** OK. And that field that I left blank there, so …

**Veteran:** That would be &quot;wife.&quot;

**Moderator:** And you can just show me how you would interact with that.

**Veteran:** Uh, currently enrolled in …

**Moderator:** Tell me what you&#39;re thinking there.

**Veteran:** Primary caregiver would be my caregiver, which in my case is my wife, so I would pick TRICARE.

**Moderator:** OK, and you would wouldn&#39;t be able to select TRICARE in this prototype, but I saw that you went there. So, you knew that your wife was enrolled in TRICARE so you would select that?

**Veteran:** Yes.

**Moderator:** Great. And you can go ahead and proceed.

**Veteran:** OK. Caregivers currently covered by other health insurance. For that, that would be no for me. Would you like to add a secondary family caregiver? I don&#39;t know if we have one.

_Caregiver (off-camera): Unintelligible_

**Veteran:** Oh, we do!

**Moderator:** Let me just stop you there for a second. What were you unsure of in terms of reading that, &quot;would you like a secondary family caregiver?&quot;

**Veteran:** Well, I understood the reason for a secondary is in case something would happen to the primary. But I was unsure who that was for us.

**Moderator:** Gotcha. So, if you were filling this out for the first time, would you add a secondary caregiver?

**Veteran:** Oh definitely. It&#39;s very important to have a secondary. I understand the reasons for it. I just didn&#39;t know right offhand for us who that was.

**Moderator:** OK.

**Veteran:** She kind of keeps track of that stuff.

**Moderator:** Sure. So, you could go ahead and show me …

**Veteran:** Press this and continue.

**Moderator:** OK.

**Veteran:** OK then that would be the secondary caregiver&#39;s information, which makes sense.

_Caregiver (off-camera): Unintelligible_

**Veteran:** I don&#39;t really know who picks the secondary caregiver. I don&#39;t know if that would be me or the primary caregiver.

**Moderator:** OK, gotcha.

**Veteran:** I just don&#39;t know that part.

**Moderator:** Right. So, you&#39;re thinking the secondary, that person might kind of be in case something happens to the primary caregiver, is that somebody that you pick, is it somebody the primary caregiver picks.

**Veteran:** That&#39;s something I&#39;m unsure of, you know?

**Moderator:** Sure, that makes sense. OK, you can show me

**Veteran:** OK, I would add the address stuff … there&#39;s a block here in case I wanted another secondary caregiver.

**Moderator:** What do you think of that button or if you would add another secondary caregiver?

**Veteran:** Well, I think that would depend on my medical condition. In case, you know, I was really bad off I would probably want to have another.

**Moderator:** OK, well let&#39;s say we&#39;re not going to add another secondary caregiver, so …

**Veteran:** I&#39;ll continue.

**Moderator:** OK. And then, just tell me exactly what. …

**Veteran:** OK, well I&#39;m one of those people that likes to start at the top. I would hit &quot;Veteran&#39;s information.&quot;

**Moderator:** OK, you would click on &quot;Veteran&#39;s or service member&#39;s information.&quot; And what would you expect to happen there?

**Veteran:** Oh, probably information about my service, my injuries, stuff like that.

**Moderator:** And what about, what else? So, you would first click on that and then what would you do next? It&#39;s actually not clickable.

**Veteran:** OK. Well, I would just go down the list to &quot;primary caregiver information&quot; and I will fill it out to the best of my knowledge, which in my case, I&#39;ve been married for so long that I have all of her information. So, I would go there, and then depending on whether the primary caregiver or I select a secondary caregiver, I would go to the next information.

**Moderator:** Great. And as you navigate below to these cards here, what do you think is happening here?

**Veteran:** The next what?

**Moderator:** Say you reviewed all that information up there, and then go to the Veteran or service member the statement of truth, can you tell me a little bit about how you would interact with this?

**Veteran:** Let&#39;s see here. Statement of truth, I&#39;m not … I don&#39;t know what that means. Am I telling the truth? I don&#39;t know.

**Moderator:** OK.

**Veteran:** I suppose there are some people out there who don&#39;t tell the truth, so I suppose I don&#39;t know if you guys have that problem or not. But I understand that. So, I would just proceed.

**Moderator:** OK, you can show me how you would proceed.

**Veteran:** It says, &quot;Veteran&#39;s full name.&quot;

**Moderator:** OK.

**Veteran:** Then I put my full name in there, and I would click &quot;yes,&quot; that everything is true and accurate, and then I would go down to – oh, OK, I see what&#39;s going on here. Now it&#39;s the caregiver&#39;s statement of truth and I would make sure is everything is truthful and accurate and all of that and then I would put her name, or his name, and click that it was absolutely true. And then the same for the secondary. Absolutely true and then submit application.

**Moderator:** Right. And just out of curiosity, when you were entering the primary caregiver, you said you would put their name and then check the box there.

**Veteran:** Yeah.

**Moderator:** Would you, I guess as you were going the whole application and then when you got to the signature here, would you do that on your own? Or would you …

**Veteran:** No, I would do that with the caregiver. Just to make sure we have all of our information correct and accurate, and I would make sure I did the same with the secondary.

**Moderator:** OK.

**Veteran:** It&#39;s kind of joint thing, you know?

**Moderator:** You imagine if you were filling out the application that you would be filling it out the entire application with the caregiver? Or do you think you would do it on your own and then kind of call them over when it&#39;s time to review the information?

**Veteran:** I would never do anything without having the other person involved in what I&#39;m doing.

**Moderator:** That totally makes sense. So, I know are running a little short on time, so you can go ahead and go ahead and see what happens.

**Veteran:** Submit. OK.

**Moderator:** And then … yeah if you could ….

**Veteran:** Well, I see my application has been submitted. Of course, there&#39;s the form number; that&#39;s good to know in my mind.

**Moderator:** OK.

**Veteran:** Date it was submitted; how I can find out how long I have to wait, or contact – it&#39;s all here.

**Moderator:** OK, great. Thank you so much and you can go ahead and stop sharing your screen.

## Fourth Task: [understanding next steps]

**Moderator:** I know we are running short on time. Now that you went through that process, would you be able to tell me some of the next steps in the process without looking? Now that you&#39;ve submitted the form, do you know some of the next steps that might take place?

**Veteran:** Well, just like anything else it&#39;s just a matter of whoever receives that application is going to have to review it and then it&#39;s online and it would just be a matter of waiting to find out.

## Post-Task Interview

**Moderator:** And, in terms of that whole process of filling out the names and address, were there any difficult parts? What was the hardest part?

**Veteran:** The hardest part for me was the determination of who selects the secondary. To me I would think maybe that&#39;s the primary caregiver would have to do that, for whatever reason because they&#39;re going to be the caregiver and somebody who they&#39;re going to have to get a hold of in case they can&#39;t. If that make sense. I didn&#39;t know who would actually select it and it would make sense if the caregiver would do that. That&#39;s the only thing; other than that, everything was very clear and perfect.

**Moderator:** Anything in particular that worked well that you noticed as you were going through that online form?

**Veteran:** Just the navigation. It was perfect. Just one step at a time and very self-explanatory. I got TBI and I still managed to figure out what I was doing, so it&#39;s pretty easy.

**Moderator:** Real quick, I&#39;m just going to share my screen with you and then we&#39;ll get you out of here.

**Veteran:** OK. I hope I was helpful.

**Moderator:** It was really helpful. OK, can you see my screen?

**Veteran:** Yes, I can.

**Moderator:** This is the 10-10 Charlie Golf paper form and I&#39;m just going to kind of scroll through it a little bit. I&#39;m not sure if you remember filling this out at all?

**Veteran:** I don&#39;t.

**Moderator:** If you kind of came to this application and you were going to apply and we&#39;ve already mentioned in terms of online, would you fill this out on your own? With your caregiver, with some kind of support worker?

**Veteran:** I always fill out forms with either my caregiver or somebody that can help me along because I&#39;m not patient.

**Moderator:** Sure. That totally makes sense. And based on this flow that I&#39;m showing you and the online form that we just went through; would you have a preference of filling this paper form out or the online form?

**Veteran:** I always like to do things on paper. That&#39;s just me.

**Moderator:** And can you explain, talk about that a little?

**Veteran:** I guess it&#39;s because I&#39;m not much of an online person and I just don&#39;t know where my information goes and who&#39;s getting it or if it&#39;s really sent, or who&#39;s looking at it. I&#39;ve always liked hard copies of stuff, but that&#39;s just me.

**Moderator:** OK, that totally makes sense, and I&#39;m going to stop sharing here. So, I want to be respectful of your time and I know we are a few minutes over. So just lastly, do you have any questions for me or anything you would like to share about this experience or the caregiver experience that I haven&#39;t asked yet?

**Veteran:** Oh, God, I don&#39;t have any questions. You guys are always very clear and helpful, always. I guess I would just like to add that this is a great program. It&#39;s really helped us. I have some other friends who are also involved in the caregiver program that are pretty messed up Veterans, and I&#39;ll tell ya, if it wasn&#39;t for the caregiver program, they would have a very difficult time. So, that&#39;s what I would like to share.

**Moderator:** Thank you for sharing. We do appreciate all of your feedback.

**Veteran:** Thank you to you guys.

## Thank You and Closing

**Moderator:** Thank you for your thoughts; it was super-helpful and really, have great rest of your day.

**Veteran:** God bless you.

**Moderator:** Thank you.
