# Note Taking for Caregiver MVP Usability Study

P9, Jan. 21, 2020, 2 p.m. ET

## Intro

**Moderator:** Thanks for joining us today! My name is Jonathan and I also have some colleagues on the line observing and taking notes. Today we&#39;re going to talk about federal benefits that are provided to family members or caregivers of disabled veterans.

Before we start, a few things I want to mention:

- This entire session should take about 45 minutes. I want to be sure not to keep you much longer, so I may occasionally prompt you with the next question or topic.
- In this session, we want to hear your honest opinions. We are not testing your ability. We just want to improve these tools to better meet Veteran&#39;s needs. I will not be offended by any opinions you express, and I welcome your feedback.
- You&#39;ll be interacting with a prototypes and a demo tool. This is a demo tool that may not function exactly the way you expect. Some areas of the prototype will be clickable, and some will not. Since it&#39;s a demo, none of your actions will affect your actual VA information or benefits.
- If for any reason and at any time you want to stop the session, please let me know.
- Are you comfortable if I record my screen and audio as we talk today? We use the recordings to confirm that we have captured your opinions accurately. The recordings are destroyed after we complete analysis, and none of your comments will be attributed to you directly.

Once I start recording, I am going to confirm that you are ok with me recording this session once more.

_Start recording._

- I have started recording. I&#39;d like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record my screen the audio as we talk today?&quot;

**Caregiver:** Yes.

## Warm-up Questions

**Moderator:** Great. Can you tell me a little about yourself while we get started here?

**Caregiver:** Sure. Well, I&#39;m actually a part-time college student right now. I&#39;m going through a bachelor&#39;s program for the social work program. As far as caregiving, I&#39;m caregiving for a Veteran that is 100% P&amp;T, a Marine Veteran. Back in 2011, I believe, I joined the caregiver support program until 2014. So basically I&#39;m taking him to appointments, we&#39;re doing finances, setting the appointments, I&#39;m getting the medicine. So it&#39;s not like I&#39;m lifting him out of bed every day. Anything that he&#39;s not either able or capable of doing intellectually, I&#39;m there. But we&#39;re still a couple raising our daughter, and I&#39;m also home-schooling my daughter.

**Moderator:** Absolutely, that all makes sense. I know you mentioned you are the caregiver; are you currently receiving caregiver benefits?

**Caregiver:** Yes, I believe as a Tier 1.

**Moderator:** OK. And are there any other family members or caregivers of the Veteran?

**Caregiver:** No, I&#39;m actually the primary and probably, when my daughter gets old enough, she will probably end up being the secondary.

**Moderator:** OK, great. Thank you. And are there, do you receive any other benefits from the VA right now?

**Caregiver:** Other than the caregiver stipend and any other that comes from the program, nothing else at this time.

**Moderator:** OK. Thank you. I&#39;m going to go ahead and chat you the link, VA.gov, do you see that on your computer?

**Caregiver:** Yep.

**Moderator:** And is there, and you are probably familiar with that site, but I was wondering if you could share your screen with me?

_\&lt;Pause while the Moderator trains the Caregiver in sharing the screen\&gt;_

## First Task: [Determining preferred location for Caregiver application]

**Moderator:**&quot;Let&#39;s say you heard – and I know you do receive these caregiver benefits – but let&#39;s say you heard that you could apply online for these caregiver benefits at VA.gov. So, you navigated to this page. Can you show us where you would go to find that application?

**Caregiver:** Hm. Well, let&#39;s see, we&#39;re not doing the regular sign-in. For education benefits …

**Moderator:** Yes, and like you are doing here, talking out loud, that&#39;s really helpful.

**Caregiver:** I would say go to &quot;family member benefits.&quot; That would be a good start.

**Moderator:** OK, you can show me what you would do, and then talk through what you&#39;re seeing here, what you&#39;re thinking.

**Caregiver:** Well, benefits for spouses and everything like that … I&#39;m seeing various options. So I would expect under there, if and when there was an online process for the caregiver support program, it would be somewhere under that category.

**Moderator:** Gotcha. And just to clarify, how did you apply for the program to receive the benefits you are currently getting?

**Caregiver:** Let&#39;s see. My husband and I were notified – I think it was the end of 2013, I was given a pamphlet with the county veteran&#39;s services department, so I used that to get to the caregiver website at the time, find my care coordinator and we were mailed an application. I filled out my part, we went through the application process and I think that first year we had maybe three or four home visits. It was a fairly easy process, the application, I didn&#39;t need any help to figure it out. It was basically my information and what his diagnosis was.

**Moderator:** Gotcha. So at first the support coordinator told you about it and sent it to you; you filled it out and sent it back to them.

**Caregiver:** Correct.

**Moderator:** OK, great. I&#39;m going to go ahead and chat you a link here, another link. Do you see it anywhere popping up?

_\&lt;Pause while the Moderator trains the Caregiver in opening the prototype\&gt;_

## Second Task: [First impressions / thoughts]

**Moderator:** Now you&#39;ve found the link on VA.gov and you decided to go ahead and start this application process. I want you to give me your first impressions of the page. This is the prototype that I sent over. You clink on the link from the previous page and it takes you to this. Can you tell me what you&#39;re seeing, what you&#39;re thinking?

**Caregiver:** Actually, it reminds me quite a bit of when I had to change for my education benefits for Chapter 35, it reminds me of the form that I filled out to change from the community college to the bachelor&#39;s program. It&#39;s very simple, pretty straightforward. I appreciate the simplicity.

**Moderator:** OK, and for you, a caregiver, by looking at this page, are you eligible to receive benefits through this program?

**Caregiver:** I can pretty much tell that I should be able to as long as I have access to all the information that you need, \&lt;unintelligible\&gt; number, obviously his signature. Yes. I would say that I qualify.

**Moderator:** OK. I know that you kind of spoke to some of this, some of the parts of the page, but which parts do you find most useful on this page?

**Caregiver:** I would say the blue highlighted area about &quot;can you qualify for the family caregiver program.&quot; That&#39;s the most useful to me and then there&#39;s the stuff below that tells you a general timeline about after you apply, these are the people you want; this is the review process; it&#39;s very spelled out for you.

**Moderator:** Great. Thank you. So, now that&#39;s you just say, &quot;I&#39;m eligible,&quot; as you said, &quot;I&#39;m going to apply to this program.&quot; Can you show us what you would do next to apply?

**Caregiver:**&quot;Sign in to start your application,&quot; I would say.

**Moderator:** OK. And tell me a little about that. Why did you click on that, &quot;sign in to start your application?&quot;

**Caregiver:** Simply by after reviewing the page and determining that I probably can qualify to find out, you actually need to sign in to start the application.

**Moderator:** OK, so, say that one more time? After reading the page to find out if you were eligible then you think that you have to click on that blue button to start your application?

**Caregiver:** And fill in the information and go through the review process to actually be approved or denied.

**Moderator:** Gotcha that makes sense. And if you were going to sign in to start the application, would you be logging in underneath the veteran&#39;s login information, or do you have your own account with the VA?

**Caregiver:** I believe that I have my own basic account but because I don&#39;t use it, I probably would have to go through the forgotten password link. Usually when doing benefits or MyHealteVet, that&#39;s all him, because it links directly to him.

**Moderator:** Right, right. But, would you know that login information?

**Caregiver:** Uh, not off the top of my head.

**Moderator:** So you would have to coordinate with him in order to get it in order to sign in. OK, that makes since. That button actually is not clickable to sign in to start your application. Can you show us where you would click, where else you might click to navigate the form?

**Caregiver:**&quot;Start your application without signing in.&quot;

## Third Task: [Filling out the form]

**Moderator:** OK. You can go ahead and … yeah, so you&#39;ve arrived on this page. Can you tell me what you&#39;re thinking when you see this?

**Caregiver:** Again, very simple, very much like any other form that I&#39;ve filled out, like my initial application for Chapter 35 benefits was very much like this. I would put in the Veteran&#39;s information, mine and whatever else is asked for.

**Moderator:** OK, great. Would you have all this information as the caregiver while filling this out?

**Caregiver:** Yes.

**Moderator:** OK, great. You can go ahead and click in one of the boxes and it will auto populate there, and you can keep on going.

**Caregiver:** OK …

**Moderator:** Can you tell me what you&#39;re seeing here?

**Caregiver:** Again, a very simple application, just like anything else. Take your time, make sure you put in the correct information.

**Moderator:** So, this kind of tool you are interacting with, would you know what medical center or clinic the Veteran receives care or plans to receive?

**Caregiver:** I think the majority of his general care is at the outpatient clinic. Is that listed? It could be the VA where he goes for everything else.

**Moderator:** But there are a couple different facilities that he goes to for a couple of different things?

**Caregiver:** Yes.

**Moderator:** Gotcha. OK, great. You can show me what you would do next?

**Caregiver:** Continue …

**Moderator:** And what are you looking at here?

**Caregiver:** Looking at two links that will give more information about being the primary or secondary caregiver, and give you a general definition of what those are, and then you are filling in your general information.

**Moderator:** I know you&#39;re familiar with the program, but do you have any questions about the difference between primary and secondary caregiver?

**Caregiver:** To me, it&#39;s pretty straightforward. The primary is the one whose obviously who is the first one, and the secondary is someone who – I don&#39;t think they qualify for a stipend, the primary is already taking it – but they take responsibility if I become ill or incapacitated.

**Moderator:** OK, great. I noticed you clicked on the primary caregiver. Was there any particular reason why you did that?

**Caregiver:** Just to see where it would lead.

**Moderator:** OK, cool. You can keep on moving forward.

Caregiver: I remember the paper application, it&#39;s following the same information as required. It&#39;s very simple.

**Moderator:** Do you know, just out of curiosity, obviously you are the primary caregiver so you know all this information. Would you have any questions about that &quot;check all&quot; for health coverage?

**Caregiver:** No, again that&#39;s pretty straightforward. I should clarify something. I&#39;m actually a recipient of CHAMPVA.

**Moderator:** Gotcha. It&#39;s OK because the only one that is populated is that &quot;none of the above.&quot; But did you see the CHAMPVA that was there? Out of curiosity, did you try to click on the CHAMPVA?

**Caregiver:** Yes.

**Moderator:** OK, cool. So click on that, and you can go ahead and continue. \&lt;pause\&gt; Again, it kind of auto populated there. So, I&#39;m curious why you went ahead and clicked that you wouldn&#39;t like to add a secondary caregiver.

**Caregiver:** Because of eligibility. My daughter at this time is too young to be designated as a caregiver. Again, it&#39;s common sense …

**Moderator:** Gotcha. But maybe at some point you would add her as a secondary caregiver?

**Caregiver:** Yes.

**Moderator:** OK, you can go ahead and show me what you would do next?

**Caregiver:** OK. So you would go ahead and go through …

**Moderator:** So yeah, what would you expect to happen? I noticed that you first clicked on the &quot;Veteran or service member information.&quot; What would you expect to happen there?

**Caregiver:** I would see a copy of everything I put in and make sure it&#39;s correct before everyone signs and check-boxes that they understand things and say that&#39;s true to the best of their knowledge.

**Moderator:** OK. And right there you click on the Veteran&#39;s full name. Would you call your husband over?

**Caregiver:** Yeah.

**Moderator:** Or would you just sign it and let him know that you were doing it? Or would you fill out this whole form together?

**Caregiver:** I would probably let him know I was doing it. I mean, we had a very short discussion. It made sense to at least apply for the program to see if I could qualify. It is something that I would talk to him about.

**Moderator:** Gotcha. OK, you can show me what you would do next.

Caregiver: Just read over everything, again, sign its true and submit your application.

**Moderator:** OK, great.

**Caregiver:** I would probably print this off to have the date submitted.

**Moderator:** OK, so you would print it out to have the date it was submitted. Anything else about this page?

**Caregiver:** There are numbers in case nobody has called, the next steps, the VA decision and then there&#39;s a process for appeals. It probably would be nice to get a unique confirmation number that could serve as a reference number, like a tracking number for your information. If you get a work order done at a company, there&#39;s a number that they can check the job and they can add in notes. It kind of makes sense to me.

**Moderator:** Absolutely. So you can go ahead and stop sharing your screen.

## Fourth Task: [understanding next steps]

**Moderator:** I was just curious about looking at that confirmation page after you submitted it; would you know what the next steps are in the process?

**Caregiver:** Yes, by reading the initial page when you actually go to &quot;sign in to start your application&quot; or start it without signing in, the review steps are on \&lt;unintelligible\&gt;.

**Moderator:** Gotcha, so it was that beginning, that intro page.

**Caregiver:** Yes. \&lt;Unintelligible\&gt; would be helpful for my husband happens to need … a visual reminder is probably better.

## Post-Task Interview

**Moderator:** OK. So I&#39;m going to go ahead and share my screen. Can you see it?

**Caregiver:** Yep.

**Moderator:** I know we just went through this form. And I know we just went through it, but I had a question about the name of your VA medical center? I know you said there were a couple different facilities. Just say you were interacting with it and you weren&#39;t sure what facility, or if you didn&#39;t see the name of the facility listed there? You would go ahead and like, &quot;OK, I live in Ohio,&quot; right? And &quot;I don&#39;t recognize any of these facilities.&quot; What would you do if you didn&#39;t see your facility located there?

**Caregiver:** I would use the facility locator.

**Moderator:** OK, so you would click the link to find facilities, the VA facility locator?

**Caregiver:** Sure.

**Moderator:** OK. Now that you&#39;ve gone through the online form and submitted the application, what do you think was the hardest part of the process of going through the form that you&#39;re looking at now?

**Caregiver:** I honestly didn&#39;t think there was anything hard about it. For someone who is well-versed in filling out online forms, it&#39;s not gonna be hard. Let&#39;s just say you guys completely transitioned to the online form to eliminate the paper waste and all that fun stuff, I would say, I would offer maybe as an alternative to someone who is older or doesn&#39;t have a computer, but make it a point to have them come in and you would actually help them fill that out.

**Moderator:** Gotcha. So always having that option, even if it is online, but having that support where someone would be there to help you.

**Caregiver:** Right.

**Moderator:** That makes sense. Is there anything that you found particularly easy or that you liked about the online form?

**Caregiver:** I found it easy in that it&#39;s only asking you for basic information. A lot of these things, you know that off the top of your head or it&#39;s easily accessible information. The most important part of being a caregiver is being organized. I&#39;m still working on that, but honestly it&#39;s just looking through and asking questions if you need to. It&#39;s very simple.

**Moderator:** Great. I&#39;m going to go ahead and quickly show you the paper form that you might remember. Does this look like the form that you filled out?

**Caregiver:** Yes.

**Moderator:** When you filled this out – I know you already spoke to getting it from the support coordinator – but when you filled this out did you do it together with the Veteran, on your own?

**Caregiver:** I filled it out with him so he was aware of what was going on, even if he can&#39;t remember everything of exactly what we have to put down, the whole process, he&#39;s part of it because he&#39;s in the program with me. Even though it&#39;s caregiver. Because he has \&lt;unintelligible\&gt;.

**Moderator:** What was that last part, I&#39;m sorry?

**Caregiver:** Because he has his list of responsibilities, too. There&#39;s things that say if something changes, he&#39;s just as responsible of letting you all know about it – address changes, status, heaven forbid, is he in prison? You guys are going to have to know, just like his primary care provider will have to know.

**Moderator:** So you filled it out together, and when you approached the signature online it seemed like the same thing, that you would call your husband over, make sure all the information is correct, let him know that you were going it, but you would probably type in his name and check box. Would that be fair to say?

**Caregiver:** I believe that I actually printed it out and had him \&lt;unintelligible\&gt;. Like I said, as long as he&#39;s coherent and understands and can sign, he should.

**Moderator:** OK, cool. And then, based on this application that I&#39;m showing you right now and the online form, if you had to reapply for benefits, which one would you choose?

**Caregiver:** I would choose the online one. For me, it&#39;s speeds up the process because everything goes electronically, where with the form you&#39;re waiting for the postal service.

**Moderator:** Right. And is there anything in particular that you like about the form? The paper form that we&#39;re looking at?

**Caregiver:** Things are spelled out like the definitions, like what a \&lt;unintelligible\&gt; is, a primary and secondary. But even the online one, it offers all these definitions, or you can just as easily call the local office at the VA medical center and talk to them. I have a very good relationship with my coordinator.

**Moderator:** Great. I&#39;m going to go ahead and stop sharing my screen here. Let me see if any of my colleagues have any questions here.

_\&lt;Pause\&gt;_

 While we&#39;re waiting, I just want to circle back to something you said in the beginning. You said you might have a log-in to the VA website. I was wondering, as a caregiver having your own portal, what would be important for you to see there in that portal?

**Caregiver:** General overviews of any kind of resources that are available. Quite frankly, with everything in the future with everything like the online application process, being able to see and get copies – we get a monthly statement – of what&#39;s active. Sometimes if I&#39;m going to college, they&#39;ve asked for that before. Obviously I&#39;m not filing taxes on that with my tax return, so I generally don&#39;t keep them beyond a couple of months because it&#39;s extra paperwork. If some of those things were online that would be good.

**Moderator:** Like paperwork that you could go back and access it.

**Caregiver:** My husband has health secure messaging. That would be nice to access to your coordinator. There&#39;s usually a social worker that we&#39;re in touch with every three to four months with calls. It would be nice to have secure messaging.

**Moderator:** Gotcha. The secured messaging, the documents online in one place. There were a couple of other things that I thought that you mentioned as well.

**Caregiver:** Maybe being able to reprint the welcome package. I know we get it mailed to us but sometimes, with the passage of time we lose it. Or again, it&#39;s another piece of paper that we say. &quot;Where in the world are we going to be able to put this?&quot; To be able to print that form, or a benefit letter, where you can print out the stipend letter, or something for the commissary, there are all kinds of stuff. So if we get in a situation where we have to apply for a food bank or charity, they need to have proof of benefits. You don&#39;t have to call the VA and ask them to send a letter. And you really don&#39;t want to have to wait for the postal service to have to give you a letter. Something like that would be really nice.

**Moderator:** Yeah, totally that makes sense. OK, great. I know we&#39;re running close to time. I just want to open it up to see if you have any questions for me, or if there&#39;s anything about this process, based on your own experience, or the forms that we just went through, that I didn&#39;t ask you that you&#39;d like to share with me?

**Caregiver:** Like I said, the process of mirrors it, the online form, the prototype, is very close to the paper form. I like the fact that it&#39;s simple, it&#39;s effective, and it&#39;s streamlined. You&#39;re not sitting there for an hour filling out a form. That&#39;s Social Security benefits. I found it was easier to apply for this than it was to apply for a government program. They&#39;re asking for a ton more information, obviously, but for this, the amount of time I have to put in is minimal for the amount of services that are offered. I really appreciate that.

## Thank You and Closing

**Moderator:** Great. Thank you. I don&#39;t think there are any other questions from my colleagues, so I just really want to thank you for taking the time for you to share your thoughts today, and for your feedback, both as a caregiver and going through that form. It&#39;s super-insightful and will be highly valuable as we move forward.

**Caregiver:** You&#39;re welcome.

**Moderator:** So thank you so much and have a great rest of the day.

**Caregiver:** Thanks, you too.
