## eBenefits 21-686c Form Usability Session 1
#### Conducted: February 19, 2020 via Zoom
#### Moderator: Aricka Lewis
#### Participant: NB (F)
#### Session Recorded: Yes
#### Note-taker: J. Adams
## Participant 1

[ NOTE: Raw notes are unedited; some cleanup required ]

 - P1 is good with recording session
 - Service history Arabic linguist for 20 years (Army?) 
 - once deployed in 21010 remote in 2005
 - Has disability?
 - Relatively easy adding dependents 
 - Had problems add husband to DFAS; still not working for three years 
 - No problems adding husband as dependent
 - not familiar with form 21-686 using that name (number)
 - P is on VA.gov
 - P1 given scenario to add spouse and stepchild
 - P1 would scroll to look for link in boxes; can’t find on VA.gov
 - goes to mega menu
 - click on benefits; scrolls can’t find looking for something obvious
 - next looks at search. term add family members
 - looking for add remove dependents; finds it!
 - Gets link, views screen
 - First impression has nice title obvious purpose
 - Likes list of what you need to fill out form on intro; seems to look good.
 - makes selection; tries to add college age child
 - Wants to know how long it will take to process form, wants clear expectations
 - Wants explanation of what proxy marriage is
 - Marriage type screen looks good
 - Separation screen, what are the implication, how would it affect benefits
 - What are implications for former spouses; click on info box what happens if… Military spouse and VA benefits
 - Same for Vets former spouse, what are implications
 - Child screen wants benefits in place for child what you can expect
 - what if child has VA benefits step child has VA benefits clarification as to how benefits work out with multiple benefits
 - Child previously married; worried that form will be filled out and find out later that child is ineligible. Wants criteria up front
 - Wants non examples of evidence along with what is acceptable
 - Want to review all info on review screen.
 - Nobody reads privacy policy
 - Wants to print paper copy
 - Reviews confirmation screen
 - users are not OK with a in week estimate, they want a real life estimate.
 - Self of child live on own… not sure why address is needed what is it required wants to know why…
 - VA doesn’t need to know if child live on own
 - OK if they haven’t aged-out
 - Prefers doing workflows all together
 - prefers to have pop-ip info, doesn’t like to scroll—keep info in “one screen”
 - OK with giving info if you fill out the form. VA wants info, always paper form/mail. if there is a choice may not use computer alway give a paper option
 - Favorite thing—it is easy to fill out and gave list of what was needed to fill out form/
 - uses laptop
