2:30-3:30PMET

# Access

https://zoom.us/j/722853312
+16465588656,,722853312# US (New York)
+17207072699,,722853312# US (Denver)

# Agenda / notes

* [Andrew] New meeting! Goals, structure. Brainstorming.
    * Updates? Demos?
    * Demos: overlap with VSP End-of-Sprint Demos
    * Ideas for content
        * Opportunities for engineers on the call to learn new things: i.e. sharing discovery with new tech. 
        * Closing out RFCs with discussions here
        * Pitch an RFC with pointer for follow-up discussion
        * Having VFS teams do presentations (updates/demos)
        * Asking VFS teams for presentations/demos they want to see from VSP team (and record!)
        * Forum for VFS team questions
        * Big-picture presentations: "what's the context, how did we get here" with demo
        * VFS: presenting initial project, looking for feedback
        * VSP devs giving tours of areas of the code that they are experts in, or quite familiar with (i.e. how the user object works, our identity process, SSO/SAML, our redis cache aside pattern, our common client inheritance classes, etc., etc.)
    * Possible schedule over time
* [Andrew] Introduce eng team structure + leads
* [Andrew] Support responsibilities (CMS, code review, etc.)
* [Andrew] CMS in particular
    * [Wyatt] Are we responsible for the actual Drupal management after September?
* [Eugene] E2E test improvements
