# August 14, 2023: Life insurance business line review
*Ask VA Integration Team*

## Agenda

- Introductions
- Review AVA form fields
- Review category and topic names


## Attendees

- Our team: Tyler, Becky, Ruchi, Khoa, Joe, Eddie
- Life insurance: Cherronda Jeffcoat
- CRM team: Wayne, Shelby, Maria
- Not present: Erica Muncrief

## Key takeaways

- Cherronda confirmed the proposed name changes would be an improvement.
> "Yes this makes much more sense [to spell out the acronym]."

- They also confirmed that they only need some of the military service fields, not all of them.
> "Sometimes we just need the last 4 numbers in their social security number, name, and DOB. Then, we can narrow it down to zone it to the direct veteran they're speaking about. We don't need all of the fields."

- They’re not using data from `Tell us the reason you're contacting us?` to answer inquiries or analyze data because it’s not a shown field on their default view in the CRM. 
> "On my default screen (view in Microsoft Dynamics), I don't see this field."

- We should consider removing the “US Mail” option for `How should we get in touch with you?`
> "If they said hey could you send me the claim form in the mail, then we would do that. But as far as addressing them initially via mail, not so much."

> "Most submitters want the quickest, faster way to resolve their issue, which is phone or email."

## Actions

- [ ] Send key takeaways to everyone on the call

## References

- [Category, topic and subtopic proposed names spreadsheet](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1AlUqvwn49ah2gHniTwx3x0afOPliKgURo575e73OH40/edit#gid=1192783561) we reviewed in Google Sheets.
- [Form fields review (with business lines)](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1GIsq9Y6Ap9mBUL49j1Ad7tm1N_nfD0Yoxw9ThtexCMU/edit#gid=329502423) we reviewed in Google Sheets.
- [Complete meeting notes](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1y5nzZ1pDojdTjKEXu3d0eM_jxj72WrSRxaEsZOoiqkA/edit) in Google Docs.
