teams/vsp/teams/product-dev-support/README.md, before:

# Overview
The Product Support team is iterating on a process to onboard new teams that are working on VA.gov. This folder includes research, planning, and decision documents related to that effort.

#### [Planning](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/tree/master/Platform/Onboarding/planning)
Includes documents used to plan onboarding strategies for new teams.

#### [Research](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/tree/master/Platform/Onboarding/research)
Includes research conducted during each new team's onboarding process to uncover what's working what can be improved.

#### [Templates](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/tree/master/Platform/Onboarding/templates)
Includes presentation, meeting agenda, and email templates used when onboarding new teams. 

Note: Slide decks for onboarding new teams are typically created and updated in an Oddball Google Drive directory. If you need access, ask a team member in the #vsp-product-support Slack channel. 

#### Onboarding Teams
If you are looking for information about teams that are going through or have completed the onboarding process, check out the [Onboarding Teams folder](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/tree/master/Platform/Teams/Product%20Support/Onboarding%20Teams).

Commit message:

Updating onboarding to orientation
Also changed links that no longer existed and some wording

teams/vsp/teams/product-dev-support/README.md, after:

# Overview
The Product Support team is iterating on an orientation process for new teams that are working on VA.gov. This folder includes research, planning, and decision documents related to that effort.

#### [Research](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/blob/master/teams/vsp/teams/product-dev-support/research/onboarding-mvp)
Includes initial research conducted during each new team's onboarding process to uncover what's working what can be improved. Raw surveys can be found in Adhoc's Optimal Workshop account. 

Note: Slide decks for VSP Orientation are typically created and updated in an Oddball Google Drive directory. If you need access, ask a team member in the #vsp-product-support Slack channel. 

#### Orientation
If you are looking for information as a team going through or having recently completed orientation, check out the [Orienation Teams folder](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/blob/master/platform/working-with-vsp/orientation/README.md).
