### Jonathan: 
- Design review, meeting with Ming, updating content
### Patrick: 
Plain language exercise, working on form page 1 content, blockers: what is the process for updating content
### Justin: 
Adjusting components based off design review, facility locator & checkboxes, form refactor and reorganization, custom confirmation/review page. Figured out staging! :high-five:
### Kevin:
Endpoint for form submission, writing end-to-end tests, getting form schema into shared repo - goal: get a (draft!) PR out by Friday (intro meeting with Tze?) Veteran Verification - how are we going to verify against MVI for unauthenticated users?
