For a general picture of ongoing Backend efforts review the Backend Epics.
### Copay Emails
As mentioned in [BE Responsibilities](BE Responsibilities.md), we maintain an endpoint which, when hit, sends out emails letting veterans know that a copay statement is in the mail. In February of 2024 we made an update to the email copy [here](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/vets-api/pull/15491) Unfortunately the updated copy (purportedly) caused a great upset with veterans and so in [this PR](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/vets-api/pull/15615) we temporarily turned of the notifications completely.  At some future date we're going to have to start sending these emails again and we'll almost certainly need to update the actual email template which live on VA Notify, [here](https://notifications.va.gov/services/b3357476-adf1-4350-be1b-3604034665f9/templates). Bare in mind that you can only access VA Notify from behind the VA Network. At time of writing we're working with VBS (who consume the api endpoint) to add an additional field to the copay statement data they POST to us. We're asking them to add a field for 'account balance' so we can tell the veteran, via this email notification, what their current balance is as of this statement. Ask Heather Rienks to loop you into the email thread for more information.
### Moving business logic from frontend to backend
This one's pretty straight forward. Currently the Frontend code accounts for a good bit of business logic which takes place before FSR submission. We have an ongoing initiative to move basically all business logic into the backend to give the FE less to worry about. Take a look at [the related epic](https://app.zenhub.com/workspaces/vsa---debt-607736a6c8b7e2001084e3ab/issues/gh/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/75735) for details. Long story short, we've already ported the logic over to the backend via the below services, now we need to adjust the [FinancialStatusReportService](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/vets-api/blob/master/modules/debts_api/lib/debts_api/v0/financial_status_report_service.rb) or perhaps the [FsrFormBuilder](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/vets-api/blob/master/modules/debts_api/lib/debts_api/v0/fsr_form_builder.rb), to apply these services to the FSR data sent from the FE.  For more and better context reach out to any of our FE engineers, especially Andrew Rodiek who spearheaded this effort.
### Rehydrating FSR from Submission
This one's probably quite a ways off. Recall from [What is the Financial Status Report?](What is the Financial Status Report?.md) that the FSR form users are filling out on the front end is persisted in an `InProgressForm` record. When the form is successfully submitted a `form5655Submission` record is created and the InProgressForm record is deleted. At some point we want to give veterans the ability to repopulate an `InProgressForm` with the data from a previously submitted `form5655Submission`.  The ground work has already been laid in [this PR](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/vets-api/pull/16459) but some adjustments will likely need to be made. For instance,  `FinancialStatusReportsController#submissions` is intended to give the FE information about a veteran's existing submissions, but right now it only returns IDs. We'll almost certainly need to give them more information about user's submissions.

### Displaying Account Balance (Lighthouse)
The [Debt Portal](https://staging.va.gov/manage-va-debt/summary) provides some information about the user's standing debts and copays, however, copay data is based on monthly statements, meaning we are often giving financial information which is up to a month old. What's more, $0 balance statements aren't issued, further obscuring the veteran's financial situation. We've asked the Lighthouse team(see Team Contacts) to expose an API endpoint for us to consume, which would give an up-to-date value for a given veteran's account balance. Much proverbial ink has been spilled in internal discussions about this task but long story short there is no source of truth for a veteran's account balance, as absurd as that sounds.  Lighthouse has promised us data which is only 1 week old. Better than 1 month, but still not ideal.  I'm told that when this API endpoint is eventually available it follow the [FHIR Standard](https://www.hl7.org/fhir/R4/financial-module.html) which, at time of writing, I know nothing about.

### Moving Debt Team code into `debts_api` module
vets-api is a big project with many many teams working in relative isolation from each other. As such we try to clearly demarcate what code is our responsibility and which is not. For this reason we have an ongoing initiative to move code owned by `vsa-debt-resolution`(us) out of the root application and into the debts_api module.  Currently we've moved *just about* everything related to the FSR into debts_api, but there's still code that technically belongs to us floating around. It wouldn't hurt to confirm that any code owned by us outside of `debts_api` is even in use at all and deprecate if not.