## Content & IA Team (VSP) Standup

_Notes in reverse chronological order._

TEMPLATE FOR COPY/PASTE<br>

## **Date:**<br>
**Updates & team questions from Megan:**<br>
**Mikki standup:**<br> 
**Peggy standup:**<br>
**Matt standup:**<br> 
**Megan standup:**<br>

## **Date:** 9/23/19<br>
**Updates & team questions from Megan:**
- eBenefits content & IA review incoming <br>

**Matt standup:**<br> 
**Megan standup:**<br>
**Mikki standup:**<br> 
**Peggy standup:**<br>

## **Date:** 9/19/19<br>
**Updates & team questions from Megan:**<br>
**Megan standup:** Sprint planning yesterday, sprint starting today. Finishing eQIP. 1:1s today.<br>
**Peggy standup:** Meetings yesterday and sprint planning! Some CMS work. Trying to get on top of direct deposit content review, need date for launch. Meeting with Lauren A today re VAOS content stuff. More CMS and legacy editing.<br>
**Mikki standup:** Yesterday meetings and one onboarding session. Today, more meetings. Today am going to work on VHA legacy nav and legacy rewriting and redirect stuff.<br> 
**Matt standup:** Did a review of Lauren's proposed structure. Have a few suggestions, need to meet with Mikki to review. Then will meet with Lauren again. Look at sprint objectives to determine next steps.<br> 

## **Date:** 9/16/19<br>
**Updates & team questions from Megan:** none<br>
**Mikki standup:** Completed edits to branch for /teams/vsp, next step will be to initiate a PR. Feedback on “how to use this repo” document.<br> 
**Peggy standup:** Eqip, meetings forever<br>
**Matt standup:** CMS UAT stuff is spilling into this week. Legacy rewriting stuff. A couple more CMS changes to deal with today. Getting ready for onboarding meeting tomorrow. Editing prototype for VAOS will come.<br> 
**Megan standup:** Primarily working on the IA ROE for onboarding. Also finalizing the “how to use this repo” guidelines. <br>

## **Date:** 9/12/19<br>
**Updates & team questions from Megan:**
- Scheduling team retros
- I’m going to do Slackup earlier, is that OK? Do we want standup earlier? Do we like it at 12 pm / 3 pm for now? It looks like we’re all usually free between 12-1 pm ET on Mondays and Thursdays, and also between 1-2 pm ET on Thursdays (although is having it at different times wise? Up to us …)
- What coordination do we need to do in advance of first joint onboarding on Tuesday (for eBenefits)?

**Mikki standup:**
- Yesterday spent time in GH, many unexpected tasks. Fixing broken links in eng doc (not necessarily bc repo), helped them correct things on their files. 
- Andy L working on header/footer had suggestions for how to restructure those folders. Mikki did restructuring of that area
Got caught up on VFS support work — DIC IA needed changed. Work was done, documented! Handed to Kara. 
- Today, planning!

**Peggy standup:**
- UAT testing!! A lot of work. Met deadline last night! Logged a lot of bugs, CMS team fixed them, need to verify those fixes.
- Been attending user research sessions for VAOS. Listening in, next week I’m editing the prototype for them.

**Matt standup:**
- List of content POCs for repos are done! 
- Discovery meeting with /teams space, took info from meeting & from Nancy and built out a markdown file. That is available for review, got feedback from Mikki, do more people need to review this? What does that look like?
- How do I circulate this branch for review? 
- To whom do I circulate it? 
- What is the timeline on that?
- Best practices for repo use document, I am adding feedback


**Megan standup:**<br>
