## Warm-up Questions - 5-10 minutes
Let’s start with a few questions... 

1. **What kind of device are you using today? *(Computer / Tablet / Smartphone)*** 

Laptop. 


2. ***(If using assistive technology:)* How would you rate your level of experience with using [specific assistive technology, such as a screen reader]--beginner, intermediate, advanced, or expert?**


Not AT user. 
  
- *(If using assistive technology:)* **How long have you been using [specific assistive technology]?**




3. **What benefits other than healthcare, if any, do you receive from the VA?**

Service connected - receives compensation. Also on V, R, and E program -> vocation, rehability, and employment program. Working on master's right now. 



## Usability testing - 40-50 minutes

4. _Starting from [new home page](https://www.va.gov/new-home-page/):_ **Using VA.gov, if you wanted to send a message to your doctor to follow up about a question you had in a previous appointment, how would you go about doing that?**
	- _Nudge and probe as appropriate. If get totally lost, help them out. Ultimately, need them to sign in._

Signs in -> signs in via ID.me. 

Would probably go to "My HealtheVet" (clicks) -> goes down and clicks on "Compose message". (Slow loading), gets taken to Secure Messaging. 


- _Optional alternative approach:_ **There is a new section where you can find all of your personal health information, like your messages with your doctor and your personal health records.** _(If person is MHV user, let them know that we are moving MHV onto VA.gov.)_ 

- **Starting from this home page, how would you find this new page with all your personal health information?**





5. _Once the person arrives at landing page:_ **Why don't you spend a little time getting to know this page.**
 	- _After they've moseyed about:_ **What do you think this space is?**

Just looking at it, like that everything is real simple. Here's MHV, scroll down - usually when come to this website, looking at how to refill prescription, or see when appointments are. Or to schedule/cancela n appointment, likes that righ ton top. Medications right down there, Health records are there. Never used the Payments section yet - I figure I don't need to get reimbursed for travel. Lucky to have VA healthcare. haven't needed "Medical supplies" section. Like how everything is simple. That's how we're trained - trained to just get tehre, hit our target, nad go boom. Kind of sticks with you through life. Pretty user friendly from what I can see. 

I've never seen dental care before - woudl clik to see what this page offers. I'd explore to see if I'm eligible for antyhing. Oh that's cool - "apply for benefits." 

**What else? Anything else that jumps out at you on this page?**

"Five exerces for people over 50" (laughs). that applies to me. Yeah, I'ms eeing some new stuff - Healthy Living Centers, Library, stuff I didn't even know about. track your cholesteroal in MHV - I'd be interested. "Check you mental health"- that's new. 

This stuff could be on other site but in back pages - can't find as easily. 


6. **What do you believe you are supposed to be able to do here?**

Basically, interface with VA. Get in some information. Kind of push my wellness along the road. Seems like some good articles in here, maybe some videos in here show me how to do the excercises. (Clikcs on 5 exercises for people over 50 to explore.) 

Lab and test results - that's cool. Cuz I know you can get your lab and test results, from what I nkow, I just go to my medical recods and download na look for it in the 100 page document you can download. (laughs) Cool that you can just jump to it. 


7. **What would you expect to be able to do or find if you clicked on the link "Download my medical record (Blue Button)?** _(Read Health Records section options aloud for participants using screenreaders to save them having to find the section.)_

If I would be taken to another page where gives me range of dates I could drop in. Once I hit "Blue Button Report" - would go to range of dates I'm sure. (On Blue Button page)

8. **What about "Health history" - what do you think you would find if you clicked on that link?**

If I clickedon that link - want to see my health, maybe what I was diagnosed with. User friendly, like for example, any diagnosis. Give me more information and how it impacts me. If I had any tests associated with it - or any labs. Or maybe just a list of all my health issues. I go to eye clinic, for example - can click on "eye care" - would take me to next appointment and my latest prescription for my eyeglasses in case I needed to order them from an third party. 

**That would be under health history?**

Yeah. 

Clicks on it - sees Family Health HIstory, Military health history - that's new! that's kinda cool. I don't know my allergies and adverse reactions are on the landing page. 

**Where would you expect to find a record of vaccines?**

Probably in Health history. I mean, cuz when I think of medications, I think of waht currently taking. Unless it's medications/immunizations. Then would be "okay." But like down here - sees self-entered immunizations. But I've had the COVID vaccine at the VA - not sure why that's here.

**What about if you were to find a progress note that your doctor wrote during a recent visit?**

That's where that Blue Report comes in - never cared for it, because a lot of digging have to do. Have to narrow in on the days that you were there. Even if was three months - can be a lot of visits in 3 months. But can be a lot of back and forth - notes are buried in that report. 

**If you wanted a copy of your entire medical report?**
Would have gone back to the Blue Report, but here's the Health Summary. But had to read what's the difference. 


9. **If you needed to get paid back by the VA for having to drive a long distance to a VA medical center for an appointment, where would you go to submit the receipts to be paid back?**

Um, since I was on here - scrolled down earlier, would go to Payments, clicks on "File for travel reimbursement". 




10. **If you needed to see a healthcare provider outside of the VA and you wanted to see if that would still be covered by your VA benefits, how would you figure that out?**

Since it's an appointment, woudl go to "schedule." (Peruses scheduling page. Finds "Can I use this tool to schedule a non-VA appt?) Reads. I know about Community Care would probably skip reading that. Find a VA location - this is so helpful can be so helful because don't always know who is in network and who isn't. For CC - was a lot of going back and forth on the phone with coordinator. 

**What do you think the My VA health benefits section includes? What is this section "about"?**

Don't know why copay rates are first - kind of tick me off. Not sure why that's not in a different area. Would just want to see my health benefits. 

Woudl want to see eye care/ eye exams, maybe podiatry. NOt sure why the form is there... Would just expect to see my benefits. 

**If you could rename that section, what name?**

The VA needs your help... Needs your information. Needs your support. The VA is asking me to do something - we hate forms. We've filled out a gazillion forms, they can be intimidating. 


11. _For users who are familiar with MHV:_ **How is this site different than MHV?**

From what I can recall, I like the simplicity of this one. Almost feels like (can't hear). What I would like, I know you guys have these blocks shaded in the background - maybe just make them a little deeper the diff ones. Like if it's health records, make blue, appts = green. Just color code them - this helps. Lot of us vets w/ PTSD and brain injuries - color coding can be helpful. Even though not subconscious - oh green, money, payment. Right now - looks simple and nice, but after a while, I'll get lost. 




12. _For users who receive other benefits from the VA:_ **Where do you currently go to access and manage your benefits?** (_If user does not use the VA.gov website to access and manage their benefits:_ **If you were to access and manage your benefits on VA.gov, where would you go?)**

Where do I go now? For what type of benefits? Cuz there's compensation benefits and health benefits - two different areas. One is where waht you're service connected, what you're rated - get financial and survivor benefits. 

So you have - like have top bar "Benefits and Healthcare" - if O go here, I see disability, education and trianing, etc. That's cool. But we say "My VA" or "My HealtheVet" - coudl put "My Comp" benefits, cuz then we know that's financial stuff, that's disability. Dropdown - saying a lot. I would be able to find it cuz I keep clicking on stuff til I find it. 

**Would you expect to access your other benefits from this page or somewhere else on the VA.gov website?**
	
  
  
  
	- _For users who do not receive other benefits from the VA:_ **If you had benefits, would you expect to access those benefits from this page or somewhere else on the VA.gov website?**






13. **What information would you expect to see on this landing page but don't?**

Um, clicks on My VA. Had to look up in the corner to make sure I'm signed in. But if this bar is on the landing page (same, Army, dsiability rating) - gives confirmation that logged in. 


14. **Many of these links take you elsewhere, like back to MHV. Is that what you expected? How do you feel about that?** 

Yeah, I mean, so if I was looking for a refill VA prescription - woudl expect to land on a page to check boxes and hit refill. (Clicks on Manage Folders)

Interesting, don't know waht this is for. Not sure why would add a folder. 

**Where are you right now?**

Clicked underneath messaging bc didn't know waht Manage Folders.


**Would you have expected to be told if a link took you out of this area?**





15. _Optional question:_ **What do you want to be able to do on this page? How would you go about trying to do that?**






16. **If you wanted to be reminded that you have an appointment, that would require setting that up as a "preference." How would you go about doing that?**
	- _Probe for whether this should be in Profile or somewhere health-specific._ 


Well, would go to Appointments. Clicks on appointments - goes to "Your apointments". Would just pick the appoinment I want the reminder - would add to calendar and set up reminder on personal calendar. 

**What about for all appointments?**

I think I'd have to do it for each appoinment separately. 


17. **What about if you wanted to sign up to track you prescription refills, like you can on Amazon - where would you go to sign up to do that? 
	- _Probe for whether this should be in Profile or somewhere health-specific._** 

Down by Medications - "Track prescription delivery". 

**All prescriptions?**

Mmmm... I don't know. (Scrolls around prescription page before giving up.) 

_Jonathan shows her how to do it via Profile._


18. **Is there anything else that we haven't talked about that you think I should know?**

Mmmm... Not that I can think of. Just the color coding. 




## Thank You and Closing - 1 minute

Well we really appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us today. Your feedback is so helpful to us as we continue to learn about Veterans so we can improve the online tools that we provide.

If you know any other Veterans, caregivers, or service members who might be willing to participate in a future research session like this one, you can pass along the web link that you'll receive in your email from our team. 

Thank you so much again, and I hope that you enjoy the rest of your day!
