## Warm-up Questions - 5-10 minutes
Let’s start with a few questions... 

1. **What kind of device are you using today? *(Computer / Tablet / Smartphone)*** 
Computer



2. ***(If using assistive technology:)* How would you rate your level of experience with using [specific assistive technology, such as a screen reader]--beginner, intermediate, advanced, or expert?**

No

  
- *(If using assistive technology:)* **How long have you been using [specific assistive technology]?**

N/A


3. **What benefits other than healthcare, if any, do you receive from the VA?**

Compensation from the VA



## Usability testing - 40-50 minutes

4. _Starting from [new home page](https://www.va.gov/new-home-page/):_ **Using VA.gov, if you wanted to send a message to your doctor to follow up about a question you had in a previous appointment, how would you go about doing that?**
	- _Nudge and probe as appropriate. If get totally lost, help them out. Ultimately, need them to sign in._

"I'd have to sign in first.  I couldn't send a message without signing in"

He normally signs in through MyHealtheVet

When he tried Login.gov, he got a Bad Gateway error

Worked the second time

I'd probably go to Health Care, but I don't see it.  I would click "Send a secure message to your health care team"

"Your records are here, benefits, military records.  Even in the DD214.  It's in the records section"


- _Optional alternative approach:_ **There is a new section where you can find all of your personal health information, like your messages with your doctor and your personal health records.** _(If person is MHV user, let them know that we are moving MHV onto VA.gov.)_ 

- **Starting from this home page, how would you find this new page with all your personal health information?**
_User had to use the prototype; feature toggle didn't seem to be sending him to the right place_


5. _Once the person arrives at landing page:_ **Why don't you spend a little time getting to know this page.**
 	- _After they've moseyed about:_ **What do you think this space is?**
“It's a new page that encompasses some of the old features with a few ore clear <?>.  Still has the same appointments medications, messages and health records. So, um, again, it's not as much as the last page was, but I'm sure, well, it's broken down into different sections.  Down at the bottom it gives us information on resources and benefits.  The items that are on this page are pretty simple and I think the idea is to make this web site more responsible to a majority of Veterans.  There wasn't anything wrong with the prior page.  

It would help the vet find what they need.  That's the important thing.




6. **What do you believe you are supposed to be able to do here?**

It's the landing page, and you decide what you want to do. You want to make an appointment, talk to your primary care physician, refill your medication, message.  It's a lot more simple than the prior page was.




7. **What would you expect to be able to do or find if you clicked on the link "Download my medical record (Blue Button)?** _(Read Health Records section options aloud for participants using screen readers to save them having to find the section.)_

I should be able to check on prior medical records and download them for myself instead of going through the VA to download any medical records. In other words, expecting them to do it.  It takes a while.  I think I did this before on the Blue Button.  






8. **What about "Health history" - what do you think you would find if you clicked on that link?**

It's a record of my visit to the primary care and other doctors, and they can give any doctor a n idea of what my health history is in order to make their diagnosis without messing up anything else.  In other words, yesterday, my oncologist was able to check and see what my primary care did for some medicine.  So the fact that one doctor can check, is very helpful and less confusion.


Download medical records is your entire medical records I believe.  Health history is where you can go check on a certain instance of your health care at the VA.  They may some people may think that both of them are doing the same thing, but I don't think they are doing the same thing. 

The difference is on the download medical records, you download the entire cache.  With health history, you can look through your history to a certain time when you visited the VA hospital or your doctor.  It's like an individual record where the download is a complete medical file.

For vaccines -- I'd go to the heath history first.  I'm not sure if you can download one part in the download medical records, but in the heath history you can.  I can download individual parts of my health history

progress note - I would look in the health history


9. **If you needed to get paid back by the VA for having to drive a long distance to a VA medical center for an appointment, where would you go to submit the receipts to be paid back?**

I've never gotten paid.  That's cause i live next door.  You file a claim for travel reimbursement, and that's easy.  And usually you see a long line going to the purser’s office to get reimbursed.  Where here, you can file a claim, and the VA will make it easy for you.  Pretty soon, I don't think you'll be able to do it at the VA hospital.  Everything will be under travel reimbursement, and it's simple.




10. **If you needed to see a healthcare provider outside of the VA and you wanted to see if that would still be covered by your VA benefits, how would you figure that out?**
	- **What do you think the My VA health benefits section includes? What is this section "about"?**

Well...I don't know.  Let me see here.  Ok.  Current, copay.  There we go.  It's down in community care.  

Well, it seems like it, it brings you to different health benefits than what you see.  I think some of these were in those four blue boxes at one time, but now it's been brought into a separate column ,and it clears things out for me.  When you're dealing with veterans, you have to keep it simple.


What else would you name this?
"Comprehensive Veterans Benefits.  Because it's offering us a more simplified way to find what we need.  And it seems to me that there are different benefits than you would normally see in the old page, and on the old page, you would really have to search for some of these things, whereby the resources that are also available are in plain sight, and the average veteran should be able to see in order to search for what they want."

Dental care - it would let me know if I'm eligible for dental, and i assume maybe make an appointment straight through dental care there. 

Informational links to find out more?  To find out more, yes.  To find out more benefits. It explains benefits a little bit more for the veteran. and there are a lot of different topics veterans need to get care and things of this nature.  It looks to me it makes a visit to this website a lot easier, a lot cleaner if you want to call it. Veterans don't' want to search search search search search.  They get frustrated.  This page in its entirety it seems like benefits are available, and it's easy to search for what you need.


11. _For users who are familiar with MHV:_ **How is this site different than MHV?**

Well, ti may have been the first box that we went to. Then you sent me to this one.  This is a different one, right? 

Older MHV?  
"Correct.  I'm thinking of My HealtheVet as opposed to this one here.  And I think it has probably more information than the last one did.  fOr instance, community care and dental care, I didn't see those things, and I would have to search real hard for that.  Where this page here, it makes things a lot easier."




12. _For users who receive other benefits from the VA:_ **Where do you currently go to access and manage your benefits?** (_If user does not use the VA.gov website to access and manage their benefits:_ **If you were to access and manage your benefits on VA.gov, where would you go?)**
	- **Would you expect to access your other benefits from this page or somewhere else on the VA.gov website?**
	
 " It's here.  It's up at the top, let's see.  Well, maybe it's not here. ok. So i would have to."

Were you going to click on something that said My VA?  "My benefits.  right."
  
  
	- _For users who do not receive other benefits from the VA:_ **If you had benefits, would you expect to access those benefits from this page or somewhere else on the VA.gov website?**

"They all should be on the same page because continually going to different page is a bit frustrating, but it should be here.  I assume, thats why I was looking.  I assumed it was there.  I was going to look here, but I don't see it here."
_He was looking for "My Benefits_

"Well I'm looking for...I'd be looking for my benefits.  Let's see, if you go down further, no, I don't see it here.  Homeless, minority, I don't see anything about my benefits.  Whereas on the old page, you'd see four blue boxes, and one of the boxes is your benefits.  I could go there and print out letters and things.  I could find out information on a present claim or things of that nature. "


13. **What information would you expect to see on this landing page but don't?**




14. **Many of these links take you elsewhere, like back to MHV. Is that what you expected? How do you feel about that?** 

Well, I definitely wanted to see the benefits on here, disability benefits, things of that nature.  I expected to see that on this page, or a link to your disability benefits.  What's your percentage, letters that you can print out, take it to the different people who may need the information and uh, but I don't see it anywhere here.

On this page.  Well, I would put it on this page, because it would make this all-encompassing.  This would be the main page veterans would go to, because ti would include everything.  This page is mainly health information, and at the bottom is health benefits.  But still don't see the information on my disability benefits. I'd expect to see it right here.


	- **Would you have expected to be told if a link took you out of this area?**

Well, I've seen that before, but it if would take me to another website, that I don't have a problem with.  But as long as it takes me directly to the information, because I don't want to have to go to another website and really search.  I want to be taken directly my VA benefits to something that takes me to what I need.


15. _Optional question:_ **What do you want to be able to do on this page? How would you go about trying to do that?**






16. **If you wanted to be reminded that you have an appointment, that would require setting that up as a "preference." How would you go about doing that?**
	- _Probe for whether this should be in Profile or somewhere health-specific._ 

Under appointments, VA appointments, um, if you want to manage your appointment or cancel.  You'd go under schedule and manage your appointments.  Upcoming A appointments is a list of what's coming up in the future.  If you want to change it, you'd go back to manage.  I think that's ok.  I don't know about find VA locations.  I guess you had to put it somewhere.  If I remember correctly, I think under My Healthevet there was a separate link to find a VA locations.  I think I do remember that. It's just uh, I think ghat find locations is incongruous to Schedule and manage, because you're already a member of the VA, and you are cognizant of where you need to go.  It's just, it's just in the wrong place.  Not that is't available. 

I'd put it right on top of the box before you make your appointments.  

I'd put it above the box appointments.  A separate link by itself.  Some of these websites have links where you put in your zip code or something similar, and that, or me, it would take me directly to VA in Loma Linda so I could make and schedule VA appointments.  


Where would you go to sign up to track all of your prescriptions? 

It would be under medications, uhhh probably under medications and allergies.  It doesn't say anything about history, however... I don't think there's a duplicate there.  I just think medications an allergies is all the medications that you've taken. 

_You'd want that to be in health records and not medications? _

I don't know, it is... it is a health record really.

How would you want to make sure you knew where your prescriptions w
Well, there's several places you could go.  You could download your lab and test results.  And the medication and allergies is a separate link. And that would simplify things for the veterans.  

Well, you made a point there.  Under medications, they could make medications an allergies that are current.  What you're suffering from the medications you're taking, but under health history, you could track all of your medications.

17. **What about if you wanted to sign up for the MHV newsletter - where would you go to do that?**
	- _Probe for whether this should be in Profile or somewhere health-specific._ 


18. **Is there anything else that we haven't talked about that you think I should know?**

Veterans can get frustrated easily.  The page has been widened out and everything is right at my fingertips and I think this will make it much easier for veterans to traverse VA.gov

More notifications means more Veterans will remember their appointments.  That's good.
