## Warm-up Questions - 5-10 minutes
Let’s start with a few questions... 

1. **What kind of device are you using today? *(Computer / Tablet / Smartphone)*** 

Laptop computer 


2. ***(If using assistive technology:)* How would you rate your level of experience with using [specific assistive technology, such as a screen reader]--beginner, intermediate, advanced, or expert?**

No 

  
- *(If using assistive technology:)* **How long have you been using [specific assistive technology]?**




3. **What benefits other than healthcare, if any, do you receive from the VA?**

Yes, receive the home loan and GI bill, pretty much everything except for pension

Has used MHV but hardly ever sometimes to refill a prescription



## Usability testing - 40-50 minutes

4. _Starting from [new home page](https://www.va.gov/new-home-page/):_ **Using VA.gov, if you wanted to send a message to your doctor to follow up about a question you had in a previous appointment, how would you go about doing that?**
	- _Nudge and probe as appropriate. If get totally lost, help them out. Ultimately, need them to sign in._

P has only ever done that through MHV 
P thinks it would be under my profile first instinct is to login 
P logins in through id.me 
Sometimes runs into issue with authenticator to login 

P runs into issues logging in via id.me

R redirects back to landing page 
R directs P to to cdpn.io prototype 

P comments that the landing page 



- _Optional alternative approach:_ **There is a new section where you can find all of your personal health information, like your messages with your doctor and your personal health records.** _(If person is MHV user, let them know that we are moving MHV onto VA.gov.)_ 

- **Starting from this home page, how would you find this new page with all your personal health information?**





5. _Once the person arrives at landing page:_ **Why don't you spend a little time getting to know this page.**
 	- _After they've moseyed about:_ **What do you think this space is?**

The scheduling appt is good i like that
Likes download my records bc P does that after every visit
Seems pretty easy 

This seems like MHV to P bc its just medical no other benefits



6. **What do you believe you are supposed to be able to do here?**

P: do anything to manage your own care 



7. **What would you expect to be able to do or find if you clicked on the link "Download my medical record (Blue Button)?** _(Read Health Records section options aloud for participants using screenreaders to save them having to find the section.)_

P: expect like, like blue button has always been, i can download the file like pick one or download them all.  




8. **What about "Health history" - what do you think you would find if you clicked on that link?**

P: expect it to be like your past appt or exams, or what you’ve been diagnosed with.  Something like, they like to change providers a lot so you don’t need a new dr to read all your medical records but see a summary of what you are dealing with 

Would expect to see vaccines in medical records 

Would expect to see a dr progress note in blue button (download med record) bc I know that’s where they are i’ve seen them




9. **If you needed to get paid back by the VA for having to drive a long distance to a VA medical center for an appointment, where would you go to submit the receipts to be paid back?**

P: I see it’s right here ($ > File a claim) but I’ve stopped doing that bc I kept getting denied 




10. **If you needed to see a healthcare provider outside of the VA and you wanted to see if that would still be covered by your VA benefits, how would you figure that out?**
	- **What do you think the My VA health enefits section includes? What is this section "about"?**

P: I don’t know bc they keep giving me the run around with Community Care I mean I see CC right there but I’d expect it to show the providers 

R: what is hte MVHB section about?
P: it shows all the different things you are eligible for — if I were to click on “Dental care” I’d expect to see my personal overview of what dental care I’m personally entitled to like how many cleanings 

P:... but given my experience i’d not expect it to be personal id expect it to be general 
P:... it would be nice to see what [Community Care] dental options are in your zip code, like enter your zip code 

R: what would you rename it?
P: would not, it’s a good name…. Would describe this section to a friend as it shows you what you get 


11. _For users who are familiar with MHV:_ **How is this site different than MHV?**






12. _For users who receive other benefits from the VA:_ **Where do you currently go to access and manage your benefits?** (_If user does not use the VA.gov website to access and manage their benefits:_ **If you were to access and manage your benefits on VA.gov, where would you go?)**

P: Currently goes to va.gov, login, goes to section underneath, i just downloaded my award letter the other day 

	- **Would you expect to access your other benefits from this page or somewhere else on the VA.gov website?**
	
  P: it would be nice if they were all on the same thing because it gets confusing to log on to all the things … a lot of time these benefits will comingle with each other too… like if you you have compensation and the GI bill 
  
  
	- _For users who do not receive other benefits from the VA:_ **If you had benefits, would you expect to access those benefits from this page or somewhere else on the VA.gov website?**






13. **What information would you expect to see on this landing page but don't?**

P: upcoming C+P (compensation and pension) benefits bc those are part of your benefits… other things like sometimes you go to a dr and they diagnose you and then you go back and another dr says you were misdiagnosed… a way to hold your providers like a little more accountable…

R:... so like an important docs section?

P: yeah, stuff for like diagnoses… like if they have sleep apnea and if they’re prepping for a study

P:... I work with a lot of vets righ now and the accountability would mean a lot to them…

R: do you mean like the drs notes?

P: yes


14. **Many of these links take you elsewhere, like back to MHV. Is that what you expected? How do you feel about that?** 
	- **Would you have expected to be told if a link took you out of this area?**





15. _Optional question:_ **What do you want to be able to do on this page? How would you go about trying to do that?**






16. **If you wanted to be reminded that you have an appointment, that would require setting that up as a "preference." How would you go about doing that?**
	- _Probe for whether this should be in Profile or somewhere health-specific._ 


P: right now I get reminders via text, email, call… idk now to set it up but i know you can set it up…

R: could you try?

P: would go to appointments > upcoming VA appointments …. But like i only get notices if its at my local VA but if I’m going somewhere else (like eye dr)

R: to track prescriptions?

P: right there under medications > track my prescriptions 

R shows P where notifications are and P comments that she would expect those to be personal notifications (when clicking on the profile nav) like Facebook notifications 




17. **What about if you wanted to sign up for the MHV newsletter - where would you go to do that?**
	- _Probe for whether this should be in Profile or somewhere health-specific._ 






18. **Is there anything else that we haven't talked about that you think I should know?**

P: if there was a way to schedule your own health exams for like the PACT act that would be nice too I’ve already had them but it was confusing… it was new so the VA didn’t knwo how to.. Had to go to my private provider and she missed stuff… so it’s confusing… if there was a way to ask to have someone contact them about pact act stuff 

P: when I went to MHV I got a note saying go to VA.gov 




## Thank You and Closing - 1 minute

Well we really appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us today. Your feedback is so helpful to us as we continue to learn about Veterans so we can improve the online tools that we provide.

If you know any other Veterans, caregivers, or service members who might be willing to participate in a future research session like this one, you can pass along the web link that you'll receive in your email from our team. 

Thank you so much again, and I hope that you enjoy the rest of your day!


