## Warm-up Questions - 5-10 minutes
Let’s start with a few questions... 

1. **What kind of device are you using today? *(Computer / Tablet / Smartphone)*** 

Desktop


2. ***(If using assistive technology:)* How would you rate your level of experience with using [specific assistive technology, such as a screen reader]--beginner, intermediate, advanced, or expert?**



  
- *(If using assistive technology:)* **How long have you been using [specific assistive technology]?**




3. **What benefits other than healthcare, if any, do you receive from the VA?**

Home-based primary care

## Usability testing - 40-50 minutes

4. _Starting from [new home page](https://www.va.gov/new-home-page/):_ **Using VA.gov, if you wanted to send a message to your doctor to follow up about a question you had in a previous appointment, how would you go about doing that?**
	- _Nudge and probe as appropriate. If get totally lost, help them out. Ultimately, need them to sign in._

_Scrolls down._

Just kind of looking through what's here now. I'd have to sign in, that would be the first thing. Do the sign in. and Maybe do a "contact us" and search for PCP... 

(can't here.) To be able to ge tthe information (hovering over SIgn in). Maybe do a search in Contact us, see if there's a link to go to whoever I wanted to talk to. 

J: you can sign in

J: Can you tell me why you clikced on MHV to sign in? 

(participant having hearing issues - tries to reconnect/ fix headphone issues.) 

It's usually where I go, and it has all the info I need for hte health benefits, being able to contact anyone, check pharmacy, that's where I go for any information. 

J: Are you able to sign in using ID.me?

I can, but I usually don't. 

_Signs in._

I'd probably go back to My HealtheVet (clikcs under person icon). Then we go to "Compose a message". 

J: What would you expect? 

They would show me a list of different people that I could send a message to. Primary care doctor, different specialty providers. Here we are in Secure Messaging (once page loads). _Participant familiar with SM functionality on MHV. Explains how to use._

**J: If you were to go back, how would you do that?**

Just use the back button. _Goes back to landing page._


5. _Once the person arrives at landing page:_ **Why don't you spend a little time getting to know this page.**
 	- _After they've moseyed about:_ **What do you think this space is?**

Looks like you'd get more information - I like that you can see the upcoming appoinotments, I put themin my calendar. Thent he prescriptions, tracking them. Sometimes the lab and test results... I see medical supplies and equipment -I don't use these. I see dental. 


6. **What do you believe you are supposed to be able to do here?**

All the VA information, health information that I can get about the right of me to find out informaiton such as appointments. It has all the links to the info I would want to get ahold of, get hcecked. Right now, trying to go through the toxic exposure screening, find more info about htat. We use Community Care for eye exams/ appts. Then just all the diff names of how to find about this and that. 


7. **What would you expect to be able to do or find if you clicked on the link "Download my medical record (Blue Button)?** _(Read Health Records section options aloud for participants using screenreaders to save them having to find the section.)_


Well, the notes. I know that everything happens in the VA is written down, so if made phone call to pharmacist -would be in this area. Notes form appointments, any contact w/ anyone. It's in here. Might take a few days to get there, but will be htere. 



8. **What about "Health history" - what do you think you would find if you clicked on that link?**

Different diseases and different things that have happened in, basically in hte health history. Had a cold on this day, had UTI here, had a sore, things liket hat. Keeping track of what's going on. 

**What about if wanted to find record of vaccines?**

Might be in health history. Maybe in medical records? I'm nots ure. Gotta be in Health records area. 


**Diff between MR and HH?**

MR would be more of notes. E.g., saw this doctor on this day, this what I said, they said, what will happen next. HH - just say, had diabetic ulcer on foot in Jan, five years ago. Things like that. 

**Where get copy of entire med record?**

In top area (Download MR). Hopefully would get copy, get to print or have them mail it to me or something. 

**Expect to be able to print our have mailed?**

Kind of both, depending on waht was and how needed. If someting that had to come from VA, would need to be mailed. 


9. **If you needed to get paid back by the VA for having to drive a long distance to a VA medical center for an appointment, where would you go to submit the receipts to be paid back?**

Payments - FIle a claim for travel reimbursement. 

**What expect to happen if clicked?**

Submit the info about where went, times of appointment (cutting out - can't here). If had any verification of the informaiton. If showed up for the appoinment and went well, not canceled. That really did take place. 




10. **If you needed to see a healthcare provider outside of the VA and you wanted to see if that would still be covered by your VA benefits, how would you figure that out?**

_Goes straight to Community Care link._

**What expect if clikced?**

Outside of VA, takes care of certain things like eye appointments, other appts that perhaps VA outsourced. 


**What do you think the My VA health benefits section includes? What is this section "about"?**

Benefits that are available. Do I have dental care and if so, can I go/do I have to go the VA? Can I go to CC place that may be closer? Do I need a new ID card, even. 

**J: What think health card is?**

Card that you need to show for your appt with photo, ID. Just a Veteran ID card. 


**How in relationt o MHV?**

It's about the same. Maybe laid out differently, but seems like the same info. I know the appointments, meds, health records. Maybe laid out differently, but seems to be kind of the same info that I'm used to. 

12. _For users who receive other benefits from the VA:_ **Where do you currently go to access and manage your benefits?** (_If user does not use the VA.gov website to access and manage their benefits:_ **If you were to access and manage your benefits on VA.gov, where would you go?)**
	- **Would you expect to access your other benefits from this page or somewhere else on the VA.gov website?**
	
Just MHV - messages back and forth with primary care. ANd checking appts for diff specialty clinics. 


_For users who do not receive other benefits from the VA:_ **If you had benefits, would you expect to access those benefits from this page or somewhere else on the VA.gov website?**


Depending on waht looking for... _(Can't hear.)_ There was at hing that I thought had VA news -  oh, there it is. Getting updates. Sometimes it's interesting just to see what's going on.



13. **What information would you expect to see on this landing page but don't?**

Not that I can think of at the moment, no. Pretty much has waht I'm looking for. Can't think of anything extra at the moment. 


14. **Many of these links take you elsewhere, like back to MHV. Is that what you expected? How do you feel about that?** 
	
Yes. That's pretty much what I'm looking for is health information. So this is fine. 

**Would you have expected to be told if a link took you out of this area?**

Yes. It usually says something "you're leaving VA, information going to whatever site, sure you want to continue." 



15. **What do you want to be able to do on this page? How would you go about trying to do that?**

I don't think so. It has everything I'm looking for when I'm doing health things. I can't think of anything else. 

If it was going to regular va.gov and getting informaton tehre first, then going into other areas. Depending on the type of info - usually it's health-related information. 

**Are you on MHV or va.gov?**

MHV. Just in part of VA.gov. 


16. **If you wanted to be reminded that you have an appointment, that would require setting that up as a "preference." How would you go about doing that?**
	- _Probe for whether this should be in Profile or somewhere health-specific._ 

Schedule and manage appointments. Right now, get postcard reminders. So it's set up. But pretty sure would be here. _(In schedule and manage appointments. Clicks link.)_




17. **What about if you wanted to sign up to track prescriptions - where would you go to do that?**
	- _Probe for whether this should be in Profile or somewhere health-specific._ 

Back to MHV (from home page). I know that medications are in here. _Hovers over Track prescription delivery._ Would go here. 

**Expect?**

Be able to put in my informatoin as to "where's my precription? Been shipped out yet?"

**What about if want to manage refilling prescription?**

Here (same page), but usually there's a scroll. Usually a button I can click on. _(Still on Track my prescriptions)_. Oh this is just tracking, I'd go into My Medications List. Usually there's a scroll bar and I go in here, and say "oh I need more of these," and there's a button to click on. If eligible, can send to me. 

**If you were to go back, how?**

Go back to MHV _(clicks back button, takes to MHV home page)._ This is more liek what I'm used to. 

**If you wanted to get text message reminders about appointments, how?**

Maybe "Schedule or manage appts"? _(on home page, not landing page.)_



18. **Is there anything else that we haven't talked about that you think I should know?**


