## Warm-up Questions - 5-10 minutes
Let’s start with a few questions... 

1. **What kind of device are you using today? *(Computer / Tablet / Smartphone)*** 

P: Yes, I am on a smartphone. A Samsung. 


2. ***(If using assistive technology:)* How would you rate your level of experience with using [specific assistive technology, such as a screen reader]--beginner, intermediate, advanced, or expert?**



  
- *(If using assistive technology:)* **How long have you been using [specific assistive technology]?**




3. **What benefits other than healthcare, if any, do you receive from the VA?**

P: I was receiving help for my housing by I graduated from that. And I get gas when I go down to Ann Arbor and Detroit 



## Usability testing - 40-50 minutes

4. _Starting from [new home page](https://www.va.gov/new-home-page/):_ **Using VA.gov, if you wanted to send a message to your doctor to follow up about a question you had in a previous appointment, how would you go about doing that?**
	- _Nudge and probe as appropriate. If get totally lost, help them out. Ultimately, need them to sign in._

P:The participant is singing in My son changed the setting on the phone. I would do the contact us thing (in the footer). I think that would be the easiest way to do it. 

R: Would you be able to contact your doctor through this? 

P: Says contact your local VA facility. 

R: Is there any other way you would contact your doctor on this? 
P:  Let me look at the menu again. VA benefits and health care (starts reading through the list). Healthcare. Oh, “Send a secure message to the healthcare team” that’s what I would do. That’s even easier then the way I would have went about it. 

P: And it takes me right back to My HealtheVet (the legacy page- seems like a bug) 


5. _Once the person arrives at landing page:_ **Why don't you spend a little time getting to know this page.**
 	- _After they've moseyed about:_ **What do you think this space is?**

P: Oh, this is easier. I can get my gas mileage from this place. And to go on MHV I have to go on three different sites to get my gas mileage thingy. This is much easier. 

R: What about is easier? 

P: Well. everything is right here. I don’t have to flip pages for what I need. I like this. 

R: What is that you most want to do? 

P: I check my appointments. Because I also forgot and i have a lot. That’s what I am doing now. Let’s see if they are all up here. There’s that one…That one’s on here. Usssally when I go to MHV to check my appointments, I only get the Sangansh branch because that’s what I go to. And then I move some things and push things around and I get the one for Ann Arbor. It’s not all on the same page. But here it’s all on the same page. This makes it a lot easier. I think I will be using this from now on. 

(directed to navigate back to MHV) 

P: This is easier because they changed MHV and made it harder to refill prescriptions. You have to click on a few things. Everything is right here. I like this. Wow. 
 

6. **What do you believe you are supposed to be able to do here?**


P: Supposed to keep me in contact with the VA and help me navigate everything. 

R: About what? 

P: As you see I have a lot of doctors appointments. And I have a condition called POCS. I have to educate doctors because they don’t know what it is. So, this will make it easier to communicate with them and keep things in hand. 

R: What do you think you would be able to do here? 

P: I can email my doctors. I can check my appointments. I can refill medications. I can check my health records and print them out for different doctors. And fill out my gas claim without going through all the unnecessary huha at the VA. I can even orders my socks! This is a lot of easier. 


7. **What would you expect to be able to do or find if you clicked on the link "Download my medical record (Blue Button)?** _(Read Health Records section options aloud for participants using screenreaders to save them having to find the section.)_

P: I would be downloading the Blue Button. It doesn't seem to be working right now. Oh, here we go…

 R: What would you expect to be able to do or find if you clicked on the link "Download my medical record (Blue Button)?

P: To download Blue Button report. 

R: What;s the BB report? 

P: BB report is my medical records. I will click on it for you. 

(when navigated from download report) clicked back button and the participant to legacy MHV home page


8. **What about "Health history" - what do you think you would find if you clicked on that link?**

P: All my appointments from the past telling me what I was diagnosed with…That’s what I would click on to print off for my doctors. Because I have some civilian doctors not in the VA system, so I have to print stuff out to and take to them. Yeah they work with the VA but they are not in the VA. So, I print my records out to take them.  

R. Yeah that’s smart. What’s the difference health history and download medcial records? 

P: Medical record is current and future appointments I have coming up, which tests are pending…in health history. Review of what has happened so far. 

R: For you, Healy history is like history past whereas download medical record is present and future. 

P: right 


9. **If you needed to get paid back by the VA for having to drive a long distance to a VA medical center for an appointment, where would you go to submit the receipts to be paid back?**

P: finally claim for travel reimbursement. So I don’t accidentally set off my phone, so yeah yeah I expect it.

(It was loading for a while - directed to move on) 

10. **If you needed to see a healthcare provider outside of the VA and you wanted to see if that would still be covered by your VA benefits, how would you figure that out?**
	- **What do you think the My VA health enefits section includes? What is this section "about"?**

P: I would call my doctor

R; Would you be able to figure that out on this website? 

P: There is a place on here for community care…Normally mine are not on here. 
Community care right here

R: and how did you know to go to community care? 

P: I have a lot of doctors outside of the VA. 

R: you I have a lot of doctors outside of you is all works yeah have a knowledge of how this all works. 

P: yes, that’s what I have. I am my own person.

How would you get back to the website? 

P: , go back up to my name and then go back to my VA

(navigated to the My VA page) 

R: a lot of these links link out, how do you feel about that?

P: I feel fine about it

R: is that what you were expecting when you clicked on them?

P: yeah 

R: can you tell me more?

P: normally, when I go to my healthy vet and I and I am eating some thing, it will take me out of my healthy vet to get to where I need to go and then I have to re-sign into my healthy vet. Here I just push the back button and I’m back in it. I like that other than coming back to my healthy vet, that’s a little strange.

R: dissection here that’s my VA health benefits. What do you think the section is about?

P: it’s about information if I need other care than what I got like mental health or dental care I would be using in the community care because I have my own mental health system set up that update, my health benefits I like that and then down here the more resources and support, I like that, because it’s not on my healthy vet

R: if you were to rename the my VA health benefits, to kind of describe, what do you think is the unifying idea behind the different links? What other title or whatever name would you give?

P: my health benefits, my health information. You’re only on the VA site, so why would you say my VA health benefits when you’re already on the site does that make sense?

R: for you, it’s about information about different types of benefits?

P: yeah, it’s about information to get things done because dealing with the VA you have to get go in different places to get things done. 

I have a doctor at the VA that oversees all my specialties. He’s not on my email list so I have to call him directly even though his VA doctor because he’s an ad then but he overseas all my doctors because I have a lot of them.

R: : so how would he fit in here?

P:I’ve seen it on here where I can reach him but I don’t see it on here now

R: that’s OK

P: I think I would find it under find VA locations? I think that’s where I found it under my healthy vet.

R: like the locations for the different facilities?

P: when you go to that, it lets doctors and stuff in advance and that’s how I found them the first time

Because he’s a doctor, but he works in the administration part he doesn’t see patients but because I have so many doctors he wanted to make sure because he was originally my doctor at the VA that I had that they had everything in a roll so they could keep everybody posted. What’s going on so my community care doctors called and text him or email him and then I’ll transfer everything to the doctors that I see and then I’ll get back to me

Like when I go into the VA and I pass out in the hallway he’s the first doctor in the scene because my pox sometimes mimics diabetes and they wanna make sure they don’t give me insulin because I would kill me. 




11. _For users who are familiar with MHV:_ **How is this site different than MHV?**


P: they say it is totally different. This page has everything on the front page. And I my healthy vet yet the clique, I have to go up to the menu and click different sites to where I want to go for my phone. Nothing is there and I have to go to my menu and do that because of the way they changed my healthy vet, now if I was on my laptop, everything would be on the screen but since I use my phone a lot this helps I like this

I don’t have to go to different sites to find what I’m looking for. Everything is right here.



12. _For users who receive other benefits from the VA:_ **Where do you currently go to access and manage your benefits?** (_If user does not use the VA.gov website to access and manage their benefits:_ **If you were to access and manage your benefits on VA.gov, where would you go?)**
	- **Would you expect to access your other benefits from this page or somewhere else on the VA.gov website?**
	
  P: mental mental health handles, the housing and travel pay handles the gas mileage

R: do you do those using the website or how do you do that?

P: yeah, I use my healthy vet to do that

The HUD that system is not on my healthy vet so for some dumb reason they decided to take them off, so I can’t email them directly so I have to go to my mental health to get to them which is kind of dumb but OK that’s the way they wanna work it. 

R: would you expect to find your housing benefits? Where were you expect? Where were you want to put your housing benefit

Navigate back to the my healthy vet landing page

P: it makes sense to be under mental health services that’s for sure

R; housing? 

P: yeah

R: why is that? 

P: because the majority of veterans that are homeless suffer from mental health issues. And it’s a social worker that’s in control of the hood that system so that’s where you’ll find it. Makes sense to me but VA‘s whole health living with work. I didn’t see that one. 

R: you could locate them with your mental health resources

P: yeah, that’s because that’s where I thought I saw them because it’s a social worker that’s in charge and they also do in Home talk therapy so that makes sense so I graduated out of their system so I have a therapist at the VA

R: would you keep in the health benefits, or put somewhere else?

P: I would keep the my VA health benefits for sure. 

R: would you like to see or want to see your health benefits and housing benefits in the same spot or expect to see those in different areas?

P: no, I would look in health benefits because the privatize the housing thing to the person so it’s not. It’s different for each person it’s not the same. They keep in communication with the psychiatrist so they energize each housing need that’s why I would see it there. I mean it sounds like it would be more resources and benefits and support because I went through the hard bass program I understand more about it, so would benefit being under VA health benefits

Because you’re actually assigned a short social worker who comes in your home who comes in your home the first three years more like when you go in and talk to somebody in the office but you go in and they were times that couldn’t reach me and they would send the social worker to see what was going on and a lot of times it was my pox so that’s why I would look under health benefits

  
  
	- _For users who do not receive other benefits from the VA:_ **If you had benefits, would you expect to access those benefits from this page or somewhere else on the VA.gov website?**






13. **What information would you expect to see on this landing page but don't?**

I would like all the VA‘s to get together and be all in one section I would like to be able to contact Ann Arbor without picking up the phone and calling and waiting for hours to the doctors to pick up the phone because because I can’t message them from my healthy because there in Ann Arbor because it’s a different system which don’t make no sense but I’d like to see that like when I manage and schedule appointments I’d like to be able to click on that and see Ann Arbor instead of picking up the phone I know they put it on my healthy vet but I still to pick up the phone because it won’t go through I know they’re working on it but it’s still frustrating




14. **Many of these links take you elsewhere, like back to MHV. Is that what you expected? How do you feel about that?** 
	- **Would you have expected to be told if a link took you out of this area?**


P: well, I didn’t see anything on the housing that would be beneficial and helping vets get jobs should be on here 

Because they do have a program for that so that should be on here and I went through a program called the CWT. 

R: C you’d expect to see those resources and programs

P: yeah, because they don’t know about it.

Like the dietary program

R: you’d like to see the program shown here, so people are more aware of them

P: yes, that would be more helpful

P: some people don’t think about that because they don’t have to deal with it but when I go to the VA, I talk to everybody

R:  when you were about to leave my healthy vet website, would you like to be warm?

P: no I find those things really frustrating but other people might find them it’s just one more thing to click on. I mean that’s just me other people might find it helpful or would like to be warned I think to me I do this a lot at my healthy vet, so I’m familiar with it if people don’t use it very often and it would be beneficial for them to know what’s going on


16. **If you wanted to be reminded that you have an appointment, that would require setting that up as a "preference." How would you go about doing that?**
	- _Probe for whether this should be in Profile or somewhere health-specific._ 


I go into upcoming VA appointments (clicks on Schedule manage health appointments reads screen)

Oh, this has the request for community care. We’re going to try this out. This isn’t on my healthy vet so I got a check this out and today.

You would think with my schedule imagine my appointments it would be on here, right it’s not.

R: where would you go at this point?

P: I have to go back to the main screen in my healthy vet it’s under upcoming VA appointments but they change that so I haven’t seen it recently. I usually click down at the bottom there’s a thing that says settings and what not but it’s not on this page.

R: so what would you be doing at this point?

P: well, I’ll be going into investigate. Back to my healthy vet. I don’t see it on here, but I would normally find it under the appointments thing, but I don’t see anything on here. (Navigates to my health with the direction of R) 

P: is there a way to change your address on here?

 unknown - later found out that it is not yet incorporated I’m being asked of, but we will migrate over once the migration happens. 

Asked if she could update the address. Then explored and found that.

R: and where would you sign up for that might help you that newsletter?

P: I would think my VA

R: why would you think that?

P: because when you’re talking about the VA and you want to mention upcoming events and stuff like that, you would put the newsletter in here so you could keep people abreast of what’s going on and I think that something somebody would want to know. Oh, they have housing assistance under. VA benefits in healthcare. I wouldn’t have looked there.

R: why wouldn’t you have looked there?

P: it wouldn’t occur to me because I deal with the mental health department



18. **Is there anything else that we haven't talked about that you think I should know?**


No, I think I mentioned everything and I’ll re-iterate again and everything put all the different PAs. I want to say that would be nice don’t really understand. I know stay on the standalone systems, but there are one system even when I was in the Navy, I was able to communicate with Air Force. Why can’t I do that for the VA That’s OK. I tell the directors of the VA every time I see them.

Oh I like the way it is now just a few tweaks. Hey, I found out how to change the address. Helpful



## Thank You and Closing - 1 minute

Well we really appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us today. Your feedback is so helpful to us as we continue to learn about Veterans so we can improve the online tools that we provide.

If you know any other Veterans, caregivers, or service members who might be willing to participate in a future research session like this one, you can pass along the web link that you'll receive in your email from our team. 

Thank you so much again, and I hope that you enjoy the rest of your day!


