## Warm-up Questions - 5-10 minutes
Let’s start with a few questions... 

1. **What kind of device are you using today? *(Computer / Tablet / Smartphone)*** 

Computer


2. ***(If using assistive technology:)* How would you rate your level of experience with using [specific assistive technology, such as a screen reader]--beginner, intermediate, advanced, or expert?**



  
- *(If using assistive technology:)* **How long have you been using [specific assistive technology]?**




3. **What benefits other than healthcare, if any, do you receive from the VA?**

I also get monthly disbursement for damage done from Vietnam. 100% disability rating. 



## Usability testing - 40-50 minutes

4. _Starting from [new home page](https://www.va.gov/new-home-page/):_ **Using VA.gov, if you wanted to send a message to your doctor to follow up about a question you had in a previous appointment, how would you go about doing that?**
	- _Nudge and probe as appropriate. If get totally lost, help them out. Ultimately, need them to sign in._

I'd sign in. (Sign's in using MHV.) 

J: Can you tell me why you chose MHV signing in? 

It's the easiest one for me to use. Because my automated password will log me in. BUt I have passwords for all the other options. 

_J directs him to sign in using Login.gov. Signs in._

(Clicks on My VA. J reminds of task.)  

Let's see, thi sis different than waht I usualy use, clicks on healthcare tab at bottom of My VA. takes to Secure Messaging. (Basically, doesn't find the landing page.) 

J: If you wanted to get back to the new MHV website, how would you go there? 

I would go to home. 

J directs to tab with My VA - when clicked on Health in My VA, took into separate tab. 

J: From home page, and wanted to message my doctor, how would you do it from this screen? 

I'd go to My VA. Because that's the only choice makes any sense. Because the rest of them are unrelated to anything that would to doctor. Does bring up "send a secure message to your doctor." 

J directs to My HealtheVet tab - takes to landing page. 

- _Optional alternative approach:_ **There is a new section where you can find all of your personal health information, like your messages with your doctor and your personal health records.** _(If person is MHV user, let them know that we are moving MHV onto VA.gov.)_ 

- **Starting from this home page, how would you find this new page with all your personal health information?**





5. _Once the person arrives at landing page:_ **Why don't you spend a little time getting to know this page.**
 	- _After they've moseyed about:_ **What do you think this space is?**


It looks good at first glance. At the appts, there's a schedule or manage appts, I've never seen before. Expect taht would give me ability to setup appt with whoever want. That's not how works today. Today, get appt sent to you because met with nurse practitioner who's already had appt, wants to scheudle another one. Secretaries would schedule a letter to schedule appt. We couldn't go in and schedule on our own. Could cancel (manage). But not schedule. 

J: Waht do you think of this page?

It's nice ina. large sense because has a lot of stuff ordered in one page, so don't have to go searcing for it. My goodness, you hvae a lot of stuff on here. I kinda like that as a central location if you weren't familiar with how to do it the way I normally do it, this would certainly make it a lot easier. 

J: What do you think they're supposed to be able to do here? 

ANything you want to do? Use appts, find location if you're out of state and get sick. Refill a prescription. NEver been able to track a prescription delivery, but that' sa nice feature. Presumably could add medications and allergies. Those don't go together...

J: Why? 

You don't track your allergies. Would separate them out. Health records - I would look at those, but not health history. Download medical records - tahtwould be interesting. 


6. **What do you believe you are supposed to be able to do here?**






7. **What would you expect to be able to do or find if you clicked on the link "Download my medical record (Blue Button)?** _(Read Health Records section options aloud for participants using screenreaders to save them having to find the section.)_


Expect to hae the entire medical record downloaded. That's how it reads to me. That would be a whole heck of a lot of medical records. 



8. **What about "Health history" - what do you think you would find if you clicked on that link?**


Wouldn't click on health history. 

HH should show what diagnoses are and maybe what... that's all that should be in teh HH, unless trying to show all the contexts, the appts, what had to say about you. But I think it's more the diagnoses. 

J: If trying to find progress note, where? 

That would proabbly be in there (HH), but gotta tell you a lot of progress notes wouldn't be online. Would be in MR section, perhaps, but that and the HH are the two locations it probably would be. Assuming you had access. 

J: If I was goign to ask you diff between MR and HH? 

I would think ifyou download MR, would have the entire MR except things the system doesn't want you to see. HH would give you opp to see diagnoses and progress, kind of things. 

J: Find record of vaccines, where? 

Probably HH. Well, you're vaccine administration is just something you would look at - would be HH. Would also be in MR, but the summary would be in HH. That's what I'm viewing it as - a summary. 




9. **If you needed to get paid back by the VA for having to drive a long distance to a VA medical center for an appointment, where would you go to submit the receipts to be paid back?**

The travel reimbursement. (Arrow hovers over link.) 




10. **If you needed to see a healthcare provider outside of the VA and you wanted to see if that would still be covered by your VA benefits, how would you figure that out?**


I would request that from my primary care supervising physician. Would message them. 


**What do you think the My VA health benefits section includes? What is this section "about"?**

Um, hmm... this is intersting (reads). This is an informational type of structure for someone to look up things they didn't know about or have information about before. Health benefits info thing never heard of, health info card - not sure waht that is. 

J: What think woul dhappen w/ Veteran Health info card? 

Not sure. It's a card - intended to be carried with somebody. Have info about your health, would be my guess. 

UPdates health benefits info - like I said, never heard of that one. The other ones - inforatioanl type things. Am I eligible for dental care? I'mcrazy so shoudl look up mental health services. I'd proabbly click on all of them just to see what they said. 

Information sites, something like that. 

11. _For users who are familiar with MHV:_ **How is this site different than MHV?**

Um, well it's different than the old VA thing. It's all in one spot, most of it. I don't see an opportunity here... well, most of the stuff is here. I suppose that "Compose a message" is a secure message, right? I would expect that. 

J: What would you expect would happen if you clikced that linK? 

I would expect it to take me to an option of picking who I would send a message to, and I would assume by default it would be a secure message. 

J: Expect to take back to old mMHV? 

I would. By default, would bring up all supervising physicians and could pick mine, send a message. Can't get other doctors. Have to go through my primary supervising physician, if I remember correctly. 




12. _For users who receive other benefits from the VA:_ **Where do you currently go to access and manage your benefits?** (_If user does not use the VA.gov website to access and manage their benefits:_ **If you were to access and manage your benefits on VA.gov, where would you go?)**
	- **Would you expect to access your other benefits from this page or somewhere else on the VA.gov website?**
	
Just gettig a prescription or asking for a prescription. Also travel reimbursement. Maybe ordering socks or something. I actually have a hearing aids, doesn't require batteries so no need fo rthat. Or look at lab results if had access, or contact physician. Other than that, that's about it. 

J: Expect to be able to order hearing aid supplies from this screen. 

Yeah, based on what see here. 
  
  
	- _For users who do not receive other benefits from the VA:_ **If you had benefits, would you expect to access those benefits from this page or somewhere else on the VA.gov website?**






13. **What information would you expect to see on this landing page but don't?**

Not sure I could come up with something at the moment. 


14. **Many of these links take you elsewhere, like back to MHV. Is that what you expected? How do you feel about that?** 
	- **Would you have expected to be told if a link took you out of this area?**


If I clicked on one of htese linkes, would expect to take me somehwere within VA healthcare system. Not a racetrack or something like that. 


15. _Optional question:_ **What do you want to be able to do on this page? How would you go about trying to do that?**






16. **If you wanted to be reminded that you have an appointment, that would require setting that up as a "preference." How would you go about doing that?**
	- _Probe for whether this should be in Profile or somewhere health-specific._ 

Would imagine schedule and manage appts link at the top. 

J: Clicked -w hat expect to happen? 

Get schedule and manage - the manage part. I was a little confused about the manage appt. (Clicks on link.) I see that can schedule appt - has to be with somebody else. Can't go in and say "I want an appt." 





17. **What about if you wanted to track prescriptions - where would you go to do that?**
	- _Probe for whether this should be in Profile or somewhere health-specific._ 

Would clikc on Track prescription delivery. Clicks - goes to previous prescription - Clicks. Finds tracking number. 

Huh, that's nice. 

J: How go back? 

Click on MHV - gets sent to Liferay MHV home page. 



18. **Is there anything else that we haven't talked about that you think I should know?**

Mentioned the refill VA prescriptions - that would be nice. Was confused about it initially, thinking I couldn't do that but I can do that under the old system. 



