## Warm-up Questions - 5-10 minutes
Let’s start with a few questions... 

1. **What kind of device are you using today? *(Computer / Tablet / Smartphone)*** 

Phone - google pixel 


2. ***(If using assistive technology:)* How would you rate your level of experience with using [specific assistive technology, such as a screen reader]--beginner, intermediate, advanced, or expert?**

Uses no assistive technology 


  
- *(If using assistive technology:)* **How long have you been using [specific assistive technology]?**




3. **What benefits other than healthcare, if any, do you receive from the VA?**


Receives a small pension right now 

Does uses MHV


## Usability testing - 40-50 minutes

NOTE: USING CODEPEN BACKUP https://cdpn.io/pen/debug/VwGVjZG

4. _Starting from [new home page](https://www.va.gov/new-home-page/):_ **Using VA.gov, if you wanted to send a message to your doctor to follow up about a question you had in a previous appointment, how would you go about doing that?**
	- _Nudge and probe as appropriate. If get totally lost, help them out. Ultimately, need them to sign in._

P glad to see the email that I have a message from my dr - before a few weeks ago, I had to log on to see 
I see that they have medical supplies and equipment here — I haven’t seen that before on MHV 
Noticing a section on 




- _Optional alternative approach:_ **There is a new section where you can find all of your personal health information, like your messages with your doctor and your personal health records.** _(If person is MHV user, let them know that we are moving MHV onto VA.gov.)_ 

- **Starting from this home page, how would you find this new page with all your personal health information?**





5. _Once the person arrives at landing page:_ **Why don't you spend a little time getting to know this page.**
 	- _After they've moseyed about:_ **What do you think this space is?**





6. **What do you believe you are supposed to be able to do here?**






7. **What would you expect to be able to do or find if you clicked on the link "Download my medical record (Blue Button)?** _(Read Health Records section options aloud for participants using screenreaders to save them having to find the section.)_

I was unsure if it’s an xml or 




8. **What about "Health history" - what do you think you would find if you clicked on that link?**

P: “Mine would be long” I would expect to see like my blood type 
For vaccines I would expect to look at the blue button secion
To see Dr notes from last visit I would expect to look at the blue button

P: “Where would I find it if I don’t have a date for it?... so like they want the diagnosis of the MS, would I have to go back to 2019?”

Participant question: Would I find my health docs from when I was enlisted/active? 






9. **If you needed to get paid back by the VA for having to drive a long distance to a VA medical center for an appointment, where would you go to submit the receipts to be paid back?**

P would expect to go to Payments to submit a claim for reimbursement 




10. **If you needed to see a healthcare provider outside of the VA and you wanted to see if that would still be covered by your VA benefits, how would you figure that out?**
	- **What do you think the My VA health enefits section includes? What is this section "about"?**

P knows that you have 72hours to report if it’s a non-VA facility 
P doesn’t know where that would be, would call somebody or message my provider 




11. _For users who are familiar with MHV:_ **How is this site different than MHV?**

P seeing a lot in her email about the pact act




12. _For users who receive other benefits from the VA:_ **Where do you currently go to access and manage your benefits?** (_If user does not use the VA.gov website to access and manage their benefits:_ **If you were to access and manage your benefits on VA.gov, where would you go?)**
	- **Would you expect to access your other benefits from this page or somewhere else on the VA.gov website?**
	
P C\currently manages pension benefits at va.gov

I don’t like it [currently] because it’s confusing because I have to go back and forth 
P: “I think once you are in the system, I think, ya know, you should be able to access it all” “Especially for someone like me, pfuh, you know, it’s a struggle…” 

P: I would want them to speed up processing my claims… I didn’t know my pension was improved… exciting when you find out you’ve been paid 
 
  
  
	- _For users who do not receive other benefits from the VA:_ **If you had benefits, would you expect to access those benefits from this page or somewhere else on the VA.gov website?**

P would expect to see what other benefits - like dental - that are applicable 
P expects if to be general bc they don’t apply 

P would not rename “My VA Benefits” it seems pretty self explanatory to me 




13. **What information would you expect to see on this landing page but don't?**




14. **Many of these links take you elsewhere, like back to MHV. Is that what you expected? How do you feel about that?** 
	- **Would you have expected to be told if a link took you out of this area?**





15. _Optional question:_ **What do you want to be able to do on this page? How would you go about trying to do that?**






16. **If you wanted to be reminded that you have an appointment, that would require setting that up as a "preference." How would you go about doing that?**
	- _Probe for whether this should be in Profile or somewhere health-specific._ 

P expects to go to schedule or manage appointments 
To be onsite would be kind fo better 





17. **What about if you wanted to sign up for the MHV newsletter - where would you go to do that?**
	- _Probe for whether this should be in Profile or somewhere health-specific._ 






18. **Is there anything else that we haven't talked about that you think I should know?**

P: I just wish they would speed up the process of paying and appeals 4 years of waiting! You can call me for any of these studies 




## Thank You and Closing - 1 minute

Well we really appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us today. Your feedback is so helpful to us as we continue to learn about Veterans so we can improve the online tools that we provide.

If you know any other Veterans, caregivers, or service members who might be willing to participate in a future research session like this one, you can pass along the web link that you'll receive in your email from our team. 

Thank you so much again, and I hope that you enjoy the rest of your day!
