## Warm-up Questions - 5-10 minutes
Let’s start with a few questions... 

1. **What kind of device are you using today? *(Computer / Tablet / Smartphone)*** 

Laptop 


2. ***(If using assistive technology:)* How would you rate your level of experience with using [specific assistive technology, such as a screen reader]--beginner, intermediate, advanced, or expert?**

No uses no assistive technology

  
- *(If using assistive technology:)* **How long have you been using [specific assistive technology]?**




3. **What benefits other than healthcare, if any, do you receive from the VA?**


Just healthcare 

Does NOT use MHV 


## Usability testing - 40-50 minutes

4. _Starting from [new home page](https://www.va.gov/new-home-page/):_ **Using VA.gov, if you wanted to send a message to your doctor to follow up about a question you had in a previous appointment, how would you go about doing that?**
	- _Nudge and probe as appropriate. If get totally lost, help them out. Ultimately, need them to sign in._

P would call on the phone 
Probe: can you try on the website

P clicks on ‘Contact us’ that’s the only contact thing but doesn’t think that’s right
P clicks on ‘Schedule and manage health appointments’



- _Optional alternative approach:_ **There is a new section where you can find all of your personal health information, like your messages with your doctor and your personal health records.** _(If person is MHV user, let them know that we are moving MHV onto VA.gov.)_ 

R: what if I was to tell you there was a new health section, where would you expect that to be
P: I would sign in and create an account 

- **Starting from this home page, how would you find this new page with all your personal health information?**

R directs P to top corner of page to sign in 
P clicks on ID.me and tries to login (has to go to his password file) — when cannot login R redirects to cdpn.io/pen/debug/VwGVjZG

R explains that this code.pen is MHV on VA.gov



5. _Once the person arrives at landing page:_ **Why don't you spend a little time getting to know this page.**
 	- _After they've moseyed about:_ **What do you think this space is?**

P: is this specific to me?
P: it looks pretty intuitive 
P: “ooooh file a claim for travel reimbursement I like that being there!” [r; why?] P: the VA owes me a lot of money bc I keep getting denied and I cannot talk to anyone about why…. So I’ve stopped submitting bc the money never comes 

P notices that he can track his cholesterol which he likes bc he had a stroke from cholesterol 

R: what would you expect to happen if you clicked on one?

P: I would expect it to take me where I want to go 

P: Are we on MyHealtheVet? 
R: We are not [P seemed surprised]



6. **What do you believe you are supposed to be able to do here?**






7. **What would you expect to be able to do or find if you clicked on the link "Download my medical record (Blue Button)?** _(Read Health Records section options aloud for participants using screenreaders to save them having to find the section.)_

P would expect to get any notes on what the VA has on him - drs notes, past procedures, etc
R: what is get?
P: I find you don’t always get what you expect on website.  I would expect if I was to click on that I would expect to get my med records, but I doubt that would happen… I would prob have to go thru another security check



8. **What about "Health history" - what do you think you would find if you clicked on that link?**

P: would prob get a chronological history

R: med records vs. health history?
P: MR would probably be more complete? I don’t know 

To get vaccines, P would expect to go to health history and then download something… if I just wanted a quick view I would probably go to health history

R: what do you mean by a quick view?

P: if I wanted to view my health history as opposed to download my records 

To see a dr note, P would expect to go to Health History — “I’m just looking for some information and the scoot on out of here”

P: If I wanted a copy of my med records “to go” I’d probably have to download it — to eat here I’d use Health History 




9. **If you needed to get paid back by the VA for having to drive a long distance to a VA medical center for an appointment, where would you go to submit the receipts to be paid back?**

Goes to file a claim for travel reimbursement (under $)




10. **If you needed to see a healthcare provider outside of the VA and you wanted to see if that would still be covered by your VA benefits, how would you figure that out?**
	- **What do you think the My VA health enefits section includes? What is this section "about"?**

Maybe vet health information card?

R: are you familiar with Community Care? R explains CC allows 

P: I have a gal that comes over to do leg therapy for me and the VA pays for that, and they set that up, I got a call she’s coming 9am these days, and it been going for a year…

[looking at My VA Health benefits at bottom of pge) P expects that to all be available to vets 
P would expect Community Care to link him out to a splash page going over how great CC is 

R: would you expect a popup when you click on the CC link?

P: No, I would expect the page to be part to the website, not a separate one 

P would not rename My VA health benefits 





11. _For users who are familiar with MHV:_ **How is this site different than MHV?**






12. _For users who receive other benefits from the VA:_ **Where do you currently go to access and manage your benefits?** (_If user does not use the VA.gov website to access and manage their benefits:_ **If you were to access and manage your benefits on VA.gov, where would you go?)**
	- **Would you expect to access your other benefits from this page or somewhere else on the VA.gov website?**
	
  
  
  
	- _For users who do not receive other benefits from the VA:_ **If you had benefits, would you expect to access those benefits from this page or somewhere else on the VA.gov website?**






13. **What information would you expect to see on this landing page but don't?**

I think that’s really pretty complete — but really the only things that are important are my medications, my appointments and being able to communicate with the team 

P notices the “Order prosthetic socks” link bc he orders them annually bc he has a condition and whenever the dr puts an order in it triggers a call and they say he has to come in and he says why my leg hasn’t changed and then they order them anyway— i would hope clicking this would avoid the call— you would think that a drs order would be enough 


14. **Many of these links take you elsewhere, like back to MHV. Is that what you expected? How do you feel about that?** 
	- **Would you have expected to be told if a link took you out of this area?**

Would expect to be part of the website



15. _Optional question:_ **What do you want to be able to do on this page? How would you go about trying to do that?**






16. **If you wanted to be reminded that you have an appointment, that would require setting that up as a "preference." How would you go about doing that?**
	- _Probe for whether this should be in Profile or somewhere health-specific._ 

P: I already get a postcard or a letter and a telephone call right when I’m cooking dinner it seems… so I don’t need another reminder… I manage my life pretty well

R: can you try anyway? To set it up so that you always get reminded for appointments?

P: I don’t know, maybe email updates? [scrolling up and down the landing page]
I would probably go to “upcoming VA appointments” and go there to see if there’s a way to sign up for messaging 

R: what if you wanted to see prescriptions?
P: I would go to track prescription delivery 

R explains how to do it — P says that seems confusing enough for no one to use it 




17. **What about if you wanted to sign up for the MHV newsletter - where would you go to do that?**
	- _Probe for whether this should be in Profile or somewhere health-specific._ 






18. **Is there anything else that we haven't talked about that you think I should know?**

P: why couldn’t I sign in? R: I don’t know 

R: have you ever logged in using login.gov?

P: Idk why there are 9 different ways to login there should be one way to login 
P: I do everything by phone and it’s ass baward I look for whats easiest 
