## Warm-up Questions - 5-10 minutes
Let’s start with a few questions... 

1. **What kind of device are you using today? *(Computer / Tablet / Smartphone)*** 

Laptop


2. ***(If using assistive technology:)* How would you rate your level of experience with using [specific assistive technology, such as a screen reader]--beginner, intermediate, advanced, or expert?**



  
- *(If using assistive technology:)* **How long have you been using [specific assistive technology]?**




3. **What benefits other than healthcare, if any, do you receive from the VA?**

I have disability benefits. And healthcare, which encompasses a couple different things. Cuz of VA disability, have VA healthcare audiologists for hearing aids, and podiatrist for my feet. So top and bottom (laughs). 



## Usability testing - 40-50 minutes

4. _Starting from [new home page](https://www.va.gov/new-home-page/):_ **Using VA.gov, if you wanted to send a message to your doctor to follow up about a question you had in a previous appointment, how would you go about doing that?**
	- _Nudge and probe as appropriate. If get totally lost, help them out. Ultimately, need them to sign in._

So the first thing I would do is log in so would have my VA account open. 

Clicks sign in - login.gov. Signs in. Gets "hmmm... can't reach this page." Unclear why. Refreshes. Works fine. 

Clicks "My VA". Clicks "Contact us" - I believe I would click on "contact us" now. And then, shoudl offer me the option to contact them online through SVA or any one of these. The benefits I have irght now - my VA care manager, I have their separate email addresses because after I got set up, the primary care manager sent me an email to say "welcome." So when I interact, I have their separate email. So I don't actually go through the website. Normally, depending on what the question is, will just send a quick email like the one doctor, "hey this is what I'm looking at after reminding them of who I am. And then I'll ask them my question." Will hear back 2-3 days at most. 

J: If you were on this web page and wanted to find a page w/  your personal health information, where go?

P: Um, right here "My health". Gets taken to MHV. 

J: Directs to click on My Healthe Vet. "What woudl you expect?"

P: that would pick up access to page. To MHV. 

Have to switch to CodePen - perhaps because not verified? Didn't think that this was an issue. 


- _Optional alternative approach:_ **There is a new section where you can find all of your personal health information, like your messages with your doctor and your personal health records.** _(If person is MHV user, let them know that we are moving MHV onto VA.gov.)_ 

- **Starting from this home page, how would you find this new page with all your personal health information?**





5. _Once the person arrives at landing page:_ **Why don't you spend a little time getting to know this page.**
 	- _After they've moseyed about:_ **What do you think this space is?**


The two things I'd use most are right at the top - appointments and messages. Medications - important as well, and health record. And if I'm filing a claim - that's good. I don't have hearing aids and batters, bt thtat would be important. And at the bottom - additoinal resources. So fo rme, it's pretty cohesive how it's laid out. I've seen others - like tricare online, use diff metaphor - a wheel metaphor, so you're clicking buttons around the wheel. But it would keep the same topics, so it's good for me. 


6. **What do you believe you are supposed to be able to do here?**


The first thing I would think is make appointments nand see them - what's coming up, or make new ones if soemthing has come up that i need to make another appointment. It's not 100% clear just from Compose messages who itw ould be too, but I"m sure if I clicked I would get options - my primary care doctor, podiatrist. And see messages coming back to me from those doctors, or from the apoinment center if I had to request an appoinment, navigate back and let mek now when it is. 

Medications - self-explanatory. Help me refill prescripsions. Mine's through tricare, so no VA prescriptions. But if I did, would let me know where those are in case was running short on those meds. 

Health records - importnat to check labs/ tests because want to look over so can talk to doctor. Hvae understanding of what they'll be explaining to me. Or might have question about waht lab/test means. 

If I had clicked on labs/test results - just as example, cholesterol and see is low. And by low, I mean normally test results screen give syou range and if it's below, would probably come back up to compose message, send message to doctor asking about it. 



7. **What would you expect to be able to do or find if you clicked on the link "Download my medical record (Blue Button)?** _(Read Health Records section options aloud for participants using screenreaders to save them having to find the section.)_

I've actuallydone this previously - I do get a copy of my medical record. I don't recall - it would show me the med record the VA has for me. This becomes important in case filing new claim, would want to do diligence first and try to find period in medical record that pertains to new claim so can say in new claim - look at dr so-and-so and date. And that may helpe my VA claim more quickly. 




8. **What about "Health history" - what do you think you would find if you clicked on that link?**

So, um, I actually have seen - I did this on a diff website. ON tricare website. And should provide me with a linear listing of all the things I've done. A historical record, if you would, blood work done, appts had, and potential outcomes for those. So if had podiatry appt, date. Should go back and if done correctly, shoudl be time frame. So could change searach parameter - go back 5, 10 years, etc. 

J: In  your mind, how is "health history" and "mdownload med records" diff? 

Health history - just one liner. Synopsis of overall event. Lab work, whatever the type of lab work itwas. But the health history - gives you basic. Medical record - will download the notes the doctor records for that event. Health history - tells me saw podiatrist in June, medical records - says did two xrays, prescribed orthotic, etc. To me, the health history is the short version. Med record - more in depth version. 

J: If wanted to find record of vaccine, where go? 

Would probably go to medicatiosn and allergies - click to start. To me, a vaccine is kind of like a med. Would go in to see if had. If didn't, would probably go into health history. See if recorded when had vaccine. 



9. **If you needed to get paid back by the VA for having to drive a long distance to a VA medical center for an appointment, where would you go to submit the receipts to be paid back?**

Down here in your box - says "Payment", "File a cliam for travel reimbursement." But would first do FAQ to see what distance actually qualifies. If I only went 10-15 miles, might not qualify. 

J: see where could get answer to your question? 

There was a FAQ link... Oh, might be under the search window. ANd if that didn't answer, would just do a Google search. 


10. **If you needed to see a healthcare provider outside of the VA and you wanted to see if that would still be covered by your VA benefits, how would you figure that out?**
	


That's a very good question... Um... Would probably (looks around page). Would probably compose a message and send it to primary care manager, explain circumstances, and find out if needed referral. Or if just talked to them, could do quick online visit and give referral. 

J: To find this outside provider, how go about doing that? 

Um... I would probably go here under My VA health benefits, and probably click on maybe Community Care, or My HealtheVet community. Maybe the person I"m looking for is in there. There are resources in here - being retired, have no dependents on my time, so would just click around. If mental health - right out there. But otehrs, might take me a few seconds to find. BUt I think I would find in resources here (bottom of screen). 



11. _For users who are familiar with MHV:_ **How is this site different than MHV?**

There are a lot of similarities. 

J: Tell me the similarities. 

Obviously at the top, know - does id you're on MHV. Probably should have gone on MHV to prep myself, but the layout seems a little bit better. Some areas stand out more easily for me or Vets. Sometimes as we get older, clikcing around can throw into quantry "where did I end up?" BUt seems to stick to 3 clicks paradigm. If I click on "compose messagees" assume going to lead to where can compose a message. Seems a lot cleaner. Might not have pizazz - but not looking for pizazz, looking for right to what I need. 

**What do you think the My VA health enefits section includes? What is this section "about"?**

I think it's an informational section on topics provided there. Current veteran copay rights - if went to non-VA doctor, what VA would pay versus me. Services provided for mental, dental.. and I'm not exactly sure what Community Care would be, but would click and find out. But might be what's at VA facilities near me. 

J: What else might it be? 

Might be letting me know waht medical care or what I might be able to access in my community. Might answer question earlier - if wanted to go to particular type of doctor, might click on CC to see if any id'd in y area. So if needed dermatologist - don' thave to go to VA hospital, could go to VA authorized dermatologist. 


12. _For users who receive other benefits from the VA:_ **Where do you currently go to access and manage your benefits?** (_If user does not use the VA.gov website to access and manage their benefits:_ **If you were to access and manage your benefits on VA.gov, where would you go?)**
	- **Would you expect to access your other benefits from this page or somewhere else on the VA.gov website?**
	
  Most of the time, so if was checking disability compensation, would go to VA.gov. 
  
  J: Where do you go on VA.gov. 
  
  Link on nit for My benefits. WOuld take me there. And if had anything, might tell me what current rating is, another link if have any pending claims. WOuld take me to claims section. 
  
  J: Expect to access other benefits? 
  
  The VA.gov is, from waht I recall, always been separate from this (MHV). Having togehter would be beneficial. one less place to go. If link down ehre to "my current benefits". Status of benefits, current claims, that sort of stuff. If I could stay on one page, then I'm not goign to get lost. But I know for a long time - before VA.gov, was on DOD page, then moved to VA.gov... So. 
  
  
	- _For users who do not receive other benefits from the VA:_ **If you had benefits, would you expect to access those benefits from this page or somewhere else on the VA.gov website?**






13. **What information would you expect to see on this landing page but don't?**

Only thing - what I would like to see - is to have that same link we were talkinga bout. My current benefits, my statusa nd claims. Or at least a specific link tot ake right to it, so wouldn't have to go out to new webpage and potentially have to re-login.


14. **Many of these links take you elsewhere, like back to MHV. Is that what you expected? How do you feel about that?** 
	- **Would you have expected to be told if a link took you out of this area?**

That's actually very beneficial, because after complete whatever task I want to do, don't watn to be stuck on that page. Once I find what I need, the first thing I want is timeout that took me back to  home page. Sometimes they'll provide you with a back button, but can get lost in browser. Can get stuck. 

I would hope that would be intuitive - if click on messaging, assuming going to messaging page on MHV. While on page, not assuming the page would completely refresh. Maybe only component of page would change "send a message." But would still know that was on messages page for MHV. 



15. _Optional question:_ **What do you want to be able to do on this page? How would you go about trying to do that?**






16. **If you wanted to be reminded that you have an appointment, that would require setting that up as a "preference." How would you go about doing that?**
	- _Probe for whether this should be in Profile or somewhere health-specific._ 

Right now, I put htem in my iphone (ha). I use Outlook as email applicaiton, but woudl make link in iPhone and then appt in outlook email. BUt if there was a way to do it here that link, like ical, would be using that. 

J: Waht about text message reminders? 

Probably go down to "VA resources." Got the VA mobile app. I do have that on my phone. Would do that to get link on my phone. 


17. **What about if you wanted to sign up to track prescription refills?**
	- _Probe for whether this should be in Profile or somewhere health-specific._ 

Let's see - I know there's a link for refill prescriptions. Maybe a link inside the refille prescriptions, like a 90 day reminder. Looks like in "More VA resources" - there are som elinks here in the bottom where could look around. "Get VA updates", like email updates - set up something through that link. 




18. **Is there anything else that we haven't talked about that you think I should know?**

I appreciate keeping color palette neutral. Sometimes get overly creative. So it's nice to keep in things that stand out, a little better organized. 

J: Minimal color palette keeps more organized? 

Use of red - like only at the very top, crisis link is only thing in red. That's appropriate. BUt other than that, I think it's pretty clean. 




## Thank You and Closing - 1 minute

Well we really appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us today. Your feedback is so helpful to us as we continue to learn about Veterans so we can improve the online tools that we provide.

If you know any other Veterans, caregivers, or service members who might be willing to participate in a future research session like this one, you can pass along the web link that you'll receive in your email from our team. 

Thank you so much again, and I hope that you enjoy the rest of your day!
