## Warm-up Questions - 5-10 minutes
Let’s start with a few questions... 

1. **What kind of device are you using today? *(Computer / Tablet / Smartphone)*** 

iPhone 


2. ***(If using assistive technology:)* How would you rate your level of experience with using [specific assistive technology, such as a screen reader]--beginner, intermediate, advanced, or expert?**

No, sometimes will manually zoom or use closed captions but not specific equipment, but he has hearing aids that bluetooth directly into phone (or tv) which came from the VA , these bluetooth hearing aids are managed from an app and he uses them a lot 

  
- *(If using assistive technology:)* **How long have you been using [specific assistive technology]?**




3. **What benefits other than healthcare, if any, do you receive from the VA?**

80% disability rating from VA associated with a previous surgery and hearing issues
Recieves compensation on a monthly basis and put children through California universities at no cost 



## Usability testing - 40-50 minutes

4. _Starting from [new home page](https://www.va.gov/new-home-page/):_ **Using VA.gov, if you wanted to send a message to your doctor to follow up about a question you had in a previous appointment, how would you go about doing that?**
	- _Nudge and probe as appropriate. If get totally lost, help them out. Ultimately, need them to sign in._

P: maybe the menu button? [but he’s scrolling bc he doesn’t see anything else that says message to dr]

P: contact us perhaps? [looking at bottom]
P goes to search and enters “Message to doctor” 
P regards results doesn’t see anything 

P able to login after multiple attempts

NOW logged in P searches “Contact my doctor” looks at results “login to MHV” but he doesn’t have an MHV account 




- _Optional alternative approach:_ **There is a new section where you can find all of your personal health information, like your messages with your doctor and your personal health records.** _(If person is MHV user, let them know that we are moving MHV onto VA.gov.)_ 

Goes to the 

PARTICIPANT DOES NOT HAVE NEW LANDING PAGE SO R SENDS P THE NEW PROTOTYPE 

START WITH PROTOTYPE ON THE LANDING PAGE “MY HEALTHEVET” 



- **Starting from this home page, how would you find this new page with all your personal health information?**

P has never really used MHV because he’s never really been able to make an account there 



5. _Once the person arrives at landing page:_ **Why don't you spend a little time getting to know this page.**
 	- _After they've moseyed about:_ **What do you think this space is?**

START WITH PROTOTYPE ON THE LANDING PAGE “MY HEALTHEVET” 

P: I think it would be really useful to be able schedule my appointments

P clicks on “Compose Message” and it takes him to My HealtheVet 

R: what the difference between between MHV and VA.gov?

P: I’m not sure… never been able to make an MHV account… I guess it would be more personalized to the vet than va.gov… but I’m not sure 

P: It would be nice to have it all in one place esp bc I need to expand my claim because I was in Vietnam and Camp LaJune (?) and exposed to Agent Orange and the toxin in the water at the Camp and its under the PACT Act 



6. **What do you believe you are supposed to be able to do here?**






7. **What would you expect to be able to do or find if you clicked on the link "Download my medical record (Blue Button)?** _(Read Health Records section options aloud for participants using screenreaders to save them having to find the section.)_

P: I would think it would take my health records that the VA established for me but nothing else (not records from service) but I think there may be a way to share across the Naval Hospital [which he also visits bc closer location] but thinks he needs to authorize that 

P: Why is blue button in parentheses? Never heard of it before




8. **What about "Health history" - what do you think you would find if you clicked on that link?**

P expect it would take him to a place showing history with the VA since getting off of active duty 

P: Would expect Records would be a record of every visit with a provider (including records of things like vaccine status), while History would be a chronological overview of health issues and diagnoses (like known knee issues, etc)

P: Like lab tests done at the Naval Hospital if I shared it with the VA would expect to see it in Records 

R: what if you wanted to see a progress note from a recent visit?
P: would go to Medical Records bc when I was in active duty that’s where the dr would make a note going over what he had seen me for 




9. **If you needed to get paid back by the VA for having to drive a long distance to a VA medical center for an appointment, where would you go to submit the receipts to be paid back?**

P: expect Payments > file a claim for reimbursement
R: what would you expect?
P: I would expect based on my experience a file about date seen, how far, etc 



10. **If you needed to see a healthcare provider outside of the VA and you wanted to see if that would still be covered by your VA benefits, how would you figure that out?**
	- **What do you think the My VA health enefits section includes? What is this section "about"?**

P: I would think I would go to My VA health benefits > Community Care
R: why?
P: I thought the VA had a program that lets you go out if you need to… but I’m also on medicause so I can go out if  I need to 

P would expect the “My VA health benefits” would go over what the VA will reimbuse you for services outside the VA (eg, mental health or dental care)

P expects if he clicked on “Dental Care” it would take him to general info, maybe to in network providers that the VA works with and I could get referrals 




11. _For users who are familiar with MHV:_ **How is this site different than MHV?**






12. _For users who receive other benefits from the VA:_ **Where do you currently go to access and manage your benefits?** (_If user does not use the VA.gov website to access and manage their benefits:_ **If you were to access and manage your benefits on VA.gov, where would you go?)**
	- **Would you expect to access your other benefits from this page or somewhere else on the VA.gov website?**
	
R: would you expect your benefits to all be in one location (ex disability benefits)?
P: that would be lovely! I’ve never been able to figure out MHV so i’ve pretty much focused on va.gov and then if I got confused i would make a call and wait times have been pretty significant lately

R: would you want to access your disability benefits on this page or another page?
P: on this page would make it easier than bouncing back and forth that would be easier than me 
  
  
  
	- _For users who do not receive other benefits from the VA:_ **If you had benefits, would you expect to access those benefits from this page or somewhere else on the VA.gov website?**






13. **What information would you expect to see on this landing page but don't?**

P: nothing off the top of my head, looks comprehensive to me 


14. **Many of these links take you elsewhere, like back to MHV. Is that what you expected? How do you feel about that?** 
	- **Would you have expected to be told if a link took you out of this area?**





15. _Optional question:_ **What do you want to be able to do on this page? How would you go about trying to do that?**






16. **If you wanted to be reminded that you have an appointment, that would require setting that up as a "preference." How would you go about doing that?**
	- _Probe for whether this should be in Profile or somewhere health-specific._ 

P would go to appointments > schedule and manage appointments then would expect to see something about alerts and notifications 

R: to track a medication?
P: Medications > Track prescription delivery or Refill VA prescriptions 





17. **What about if you wanted to sign up for the MHV newsletter - where would you go to do that?**
	- _Probe for whether this should be in Profile or somewhere health-specific._ 






18. **Is there anything else that we haven't talked about that you think I should know?**


No 



## Thank You and Closing - 1 minute

Well we really appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us today. Your feedback is so helpful to us as we continue to learn about Veterans so we can improve the online tools that we provide.

If you know any other Veterans, caregivers, or service members who might be willing to participate in a future research session like this one, you can pass along the web link that you'll receive in your email from our team. 

Thank you so much again, and I hope that you enjoy the rest of your day!


