## Warm-up Questions - 5-10 minutes
Let’s start with a few questions... 

1. **What kind of device are you using today? *(Computer / Tablet / Smartphone)*** 
- Desktop computer
- No screen reader



2. ***(If using assistive technology:)* How would you rate your level of experience with using [specific assistive technology, such as a screen reader]--beginner, intermediate, advanced, or expert?**
- N/A


  
- *(If using assistive technology:)* **How long have you been using [specific assistive technology]?**
- N/A



3. **What benefits other than healthcare, if any, do you receive from the VA?**
- Disability - was awarded 100% last year. 


## Usability testing - 40-50 minutes

4. _Starting from [new home page](https://www.va.gov/new-home-page/):_ **Using VA.gov, if you wanted to send a message to your doctor to follow up about a question you had in a previous appointment, how would you go about doing that?**
	- _Nudge and probe as appropriate. If get totally lost, help them out. Ultimately, need them to sign in._
- "Well it took me back to the create account screen, ok." _He clicked something and the screen went blank_
- "I would go to the instant messaging. "
- _Seemed lost on the new home page_
- "Let's click on health care and see where that takes us" 
- _clicked Health Care tile_
- "Let's try My HealtheVet."  
- _My HealthVet link took him to the existing MHV page._
- _User has a Premium account, said he logged in with his bellsouth account, and also stated he'd never been to a VA facility outside FL; we don't know why is is being routed to the old page. Jonathan sent him a link to the prototype._
- "It looks a lot like the old page.  Everything is here.  I like it...The type is bigger, that is good for a person my age....There's a lot of worthwhile information on this page, and it's much larger, it's much easier to read"

- _Optional alternative approach:_ **There is a new section where you can find all of your personal health information, like your messages with your doctor and your personal health records.** _(If person is MHV user, let them know that we are moving MHV onto VA.gov.)_ 

- **Starting from this home page, how would you find this new page with all your personal health information?**






5. _Once the person arrives at landing page:_ **Why don't you spend a little time getting to know this page.**
 	- _After they've moseyed about:_ **What do you think this space is?**





6. **What do you believe you are supposed to be able to do here?**






7. **What would you expect to be able to do or find if you clicked on the link "Download my medical record (Blue Button)?** _(Read Health Records section options aloud for participants using screenreaders to save them having to find the section.)_

- "It would download the information that's in my Blue Button...It's like the medical records.  I can select, I think up to a year, or a closer date." 
- It's got all my appoinments with the VA. I've downloaded it several times."  _Stores it on his computer._  "If anything ever happens to my computer, I'm screwed."




8. **What about "Health history" - what do you think you would find if you clicked on that link?**

- "I've never been in Health History.  I have no idea."

-  _Where would you look for vaccination records?_  
-  "Probably in labs and test results...I can honestly say I've never looked in there."
- _Where would you look for notes?_  
- "In my Blue Button.  That's where all my medical records are."  
- _In this new experience is that where you would expect to find them?_  
- "Yes."
-  _Where would you go if you wanted to see your entire medical record?_ 
-  "I'd assume it's in the Blue Button, and you'd have to select it from the time ranges that are available."

- _What would you guess is under the Health History link?_ " I have no idea."

9. **If you needed to get paid back by the VA for having to drive a long distance to a VA medical center for an appointment, where would you go to submit the receipts to be paid back?**
- "Uh, it's listed under payments.  It says file a claim for travel reimbursement"


10. **If you needed to see a healthcare provider outside of the VA and you wanted to see if that would still be covered by your VA benefits, how would you figure that out?**
	- **What do you think the My VA health enefits section includes? What is this section "about"?**

- Well I have several doctors who are not affiliated with the VA.  They are part of my back up plan.  Off the top of my head, I can't think of what it is."

- _Do you always look for them on the VA web site?_  
- "No, I have appointments scheduled with them every four months...you have to make an appointment. Either that or I call them, and they ask me why and all that stuff."
- _Do you think you would ever make an online appointment?_ 
- "No, from what I understand, it's only VA. If it's a non-VA doctor, I wouldn't go here; I would go to my directory for my back up health care provider, and I'd look for their title in the section that I needed."

11. _For users who are familiar with MHV:_ **How is this site different than MHV?**
- "I like this bigger font better than what's currently on there."


12. _For users who receive other benefits from the VA:_ **Where do you currently go to access and manage your benefits?** (_If user does not use the VA.gov website to access and manage their benefits:_ 
- "I have hearing aids.  If I have a question, my audiologist is in my drop down and I would go there to send a message.  If I already have a rapport, they would already be there.  If they weren't I would look on the web site.
- _Where would you look?" It depends on what it is
- _For your hearing aids?_ "Under medical and supplies and equipement is to order hearing aid batteries and accessories.  Order prosthetic socsk.  That's medical supplies."

14. **If you were to access and manage your benefits on VA.gov, where would you go?)**


	- **Would you expect to access your other benefits from this page or somewhere else on the VA.gov website?**
	
  
  
  
	- _For users who do not receive other benefits from the VA:_ **If you had benefits, would you expect to access those benefits from this page or somewhere else on the VA.gov website?**






13. **What information would you expect to see on this landing page but don't?**

"I don't know; I can't answer that. I don't go to the VA web site unless I need something.  I'm constantly refilling prescriptions.  I'm very familiar with that...managing appointments.  Everything is right here, facing me, that I, let's say use.  Appointments, medical records, prescriptions.  Payments, I don't use.  I'm within 2 miles of the VA.  I don't bother with that.  And with hearing aids, you've got that under hearing aids and batteries."
- _Would you ever order batteries from the web site?_ "Well, they just sent me a ton of stuff.  After I go to the VA, they always send me a bunch of stuff.  When they send it, they send about a zillion of them.  I'll never go through all of them."

14. **Many of these links take you elsewhere, like back to MHV. Is that what you expected? How do you feel about that?** "I have no problem with that.  I'm computer friendly.  I'm on the computer 8 hours a day.  Talking to other people, reading email.  You saw all the screens I had open.  I'm not that computer savvy, but I'm learning."

	- **Would you have expected to be told if a link took you out of this area?**
- "If you're leaving the VA website, it tells you.  They warn you, they tell you, you know.  It's like if you can't read you don't know."

- _Is that something you'd expect?_ "Yeah, sure. I've had that happen to me."




15. _Optional question:_ **What do you want to be able to do on this page? How would you go about trying to do that?**






16. **If you wanted to be reminded that you have an appointment, that would require setting that up as a "preference." How would you go about doing that?**
	- _Probe for whether this should be in Profile or somewhere health-specific._ 
- "I have a calendar on my computer, and every day it warns me that I have an appointment.  If you're computer savvy, you don't...the thing is good.  There's a lot of stuff that you can do as long as you're computer savvy.  Most older people aren't."


_How do you get it on your calendar?_ "I have to add it to the calendar. I open the calendar up, and it's got the current month up front, and you click on one of the boxes, and it gives you a place to type your information.  It sends you a reminder the day before and throughout the day"

- _Are you clicking anything on the web site to add it to your calendar?_ 
- "No, I haven't found one, and I don't use it on the VA website.  If you use one system and you're used to that, you keep using that system."

- _Is there anywhere you'd go to track prescriptions like you would on Amazon?_  
- "I don't know, I don't use Amazon".  What about on this page? "It's right hthere, it says Trace prescription delivery". What if you needed to refill a prescription?  "I send a message to my doctor, or actually the people who monitor these things and tell them I need this refilled or I need that refilled and the doctor, I guess, he handles it. As long as it's during the day before 5 o'clock, there's always somebody at the desk sitting there.  There's 3 or 4 at each one."

- _What do you think you would use My VA Health Benefits for?_
- "If you want to find a shrink, you click on mental health services and you find a shrink to talk to. Or if I'm looking for dental benefits."

- _Any other things that you would use?_ 
- "No, that VA Video connect doesn't work, that's for sure.  Not on my computer or my phone.  My doctor tries to get me to use it, but it never works. The VA tells the doctors to use it, but I don't know why.  Just talk to the guy."

17. **What about if you wanted to sign up for the MHV newsletter - where would you go to do that?**
	- _Probe for whether this should be in Profile or somewhere health-specific._ 






18. **Is there anything else that we haven't talked about that you think I should know?**
- "I can't think of anything about the website, I manage to find everything eventually in the place where it's located.  I guess that's about it."





## Thank You and Closing - 1 minute

Well we really appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us today. Your feedback is so helpful to us as we continue to learn about Veterans so we can improve the online tools that we provide.

If you know any other Veterans, caregivers, or service members who might be willing to participate in a future research session like this one, you can pass along the web link that you'll receive in your email from our team. 

Thank you so much again, and I hope that you enjoy the rest of your day!
