## Warm-up Questions - 5-10 minutes
Let’s start with a few questions... 

1. **What kind of device are you using today? *(Computer / Tablet / Smartphone)*** 


Ipad

2. ***(If using assistive technology:)* How would you rate your level of experience with using [specific assistive technology, such as a screen reader]--beginner, intermediate, advanced, or expert?**

P: That might be the reason I was having trouble all right. iPad has its own program

R: What’s the name of the program?

P: VoiceOver


  
- *(If using assistive technology:)* **How long have you been using [specific assistive technology]?**

3-4 years 

3. **What benefits other than healthcare, if any, do you receive from the VA?**

I don’t 

## Usability testing - 40-50 minutes

4. _Starting from [new home page](https://www.va.gov/new-home-page/):_ **Using VA.gov, if you wanted to send a message to your doctor to follow up about a question you had in a previous appointment, how would you go about doing that?**
	- _Nudge and probe as appropriate. If get totally lost, help them out. Ultimately, need them to sign in._

[Participants will just zoom in really close as voice over was not working - had to share the prototype with the user]


- _Optional alternative approach:_ **There is a new section where you can find all of your personal health information, like your messages with your doctor and your personal health records.** _(If person is MHV user, let them know that we are moving MHV onto VA.gov.)_ 

- **Starting from this home page, how would you find this new page with all your personal health information?**



5. _Once the person arrives at landing page:_ **Why don't you spend a little time getting to know this page.**
 	- _After they've moseyed about:_ **What do you think this space is?**

It used to be easier with my health vet logoon or ID me - you would just logon now you have to choose. I’m sure Fr.‘s that’s easier but for me that’s more difficult. Is there anything I should be looking at specifically should I login?

R: unfortunately, you can’t login because there’s a prototype. What do you think the point of this pages?

P: is here welcome page like here we are

R: who is we?

P: it’s a real it’s like a welcome to my healthy vet

I like messages are right out there. Actually, everything is. At the beginning. You don’t have to search as much and appointments is easy to fine because he used to have to go under something else. And then you had to figure out the appointments because it was all coded pretty much like not in Laymans terms. I like how it’s laid out with Messages health records. It’s all right there in your face so you shouldn’t get lost.

So these are just quick links to the various, oh, I didn’t even know there was a Health library. What’s his community care

R: what do you think it is?

P: is it in case you see doctors outside of the VA?

R: yes

P: would that help me to find doctors outside of the VA 

R: yes


R: **Many of these links take you elsewhere, like back to MHV. Is that what you expected? How do you feel about that?** 
	- **Would you have expected to be told if a link took you out of this area?**

P: I like my healthy vet, so I don’t have a problem with that but if you’re going outside of the I don’t know what the security levels are. like if it’s taking you outside of the VA websites is it scary. Will it be easy to navigate back? 

 R: sometimes a little pop-up pack boxes that let you know you’re about to leave the site is that something you would expect?

P: yeah, I want to know if I am changing if I’m going to switch to a different one, I would like to know

 

7. **What would you expect to be able to do or find if you clicked on the link "Download my medical record (Blue Button)?** _(Read Health Records section options aloud for participants using screenreaders to save them having to find the section.)_


R: what do you expect to do if you click on the download records link?

P: well, it would be like I don’t know what they call a blue some thing where you get your choice? What kind of record you want to look up so you can go in there and put in the date typically say hey, I’m looking for something from March 2020 and I can kind of narrow it down and I’ll show me all the information from that time. And I could click on. and I couldn’t click on whether I want to view that as a download PDF, or just view it.

R: what about health history?

P: I thought that would’ve been the same thing. Health history could just be if you were in emergency room. So health history committee just where you were win just bullet points. And the other be all the data. The doctors notes and stuff like that.. 

R: so health history would be the bullet points and metal crackers would be the whole thing?

P: yes 

I was just looking at labs and test results. Would that have x-rays?

R: would you want that to have x-rays or would you like that in a different section?

P: I mean, x-rays would fall under test results? that be great if you go to one section one area, that would give me all that if I could just go to one section. because I think of an x-ray being a result.


9. **If you needed to get paid back by the VA for having to drive a long distance to a VA medical center for an appointment, where would you go to submit the receipts to be paid back?**


There’s probably a travel section.

T

10. **If you needed to see a healthcare provider outside of the VA and you wanted to see if that would still be covered by your VA benefits, how would you figure that out?**
	- **What do you think the My VA health enefits section includes? What is this section "about"?**

No Idea. maybe maybe incopay? Yeah, I have no clue. Oh, probably community care. Just an educated guess. 


R: this my VA benefit section what is this all about?

P: your care what you have access to for care 

R: when you say you, who are you firm to you specifically or veterans in general?

P: I am thinking veterans generally like this would be what each individual‘s benefits are what they have access to because everybody has different service connections, so everybody might have different things so if you’re an amputee might have prosthetics then somebody did somebody who has a TBI so I’m thinking this will be custom fit maybe

R: What makes you think that? 

P because if you login why have so much unnecessary stuff up there they get somebody doesn’t have dental care with dental care need to be there. If they don’t have access to it. .

R: so you signed it and you would expect to see benefits that are relevant to you?

P: correct. I mean you could have another thing for information where you can find out other. For instance, if they have a dental care type process in the main page, but I think on the main page would be stuff that I would need.

For users who receive other benefits from the VA:_ **Where do you currently go to access and manage your benefits?** (_If user does not use the VA.gov website to access and manage their benefits:_ **If you were to access and manage your benefits on VA.gov, where would you go?)**
	- **Would you expect to access your other benefits from this page or somewhere else on the VA.gov website?**


P: That would make sense

R: Why?

P: cause it’s one of your benefits. I’d be nice if it was all in one section, I think now I have to go to the record section and search everything.

R: where would you put it on here if you were to design us?

P: I would think with health benefits. Right now I think it’s with records or I guess under records or under the benefits so you could have quick access because.


11. _For users who are familiar with MHV:_ **How is this site different than MHV?**

R: Is this different or feel the same as MHV? 

It is quite different. The only thing that is the same is the symbol in the middle and the name but other than that is a complete overhaul that does have like the color but the top is completely different. I kind of like this one a little better, but don’t ask me why

R: why? 

P: oh, I don’t know seems more accessible like everything‘s here. It’s all in one page you don’t have to search is hard and once you get to know the headings and everything you’ll be quicker and easier with color coding to meeting certain things, so when you are zipping through, maybe I’ll see you like orange and you could try to find it kind of like the tabs on a book.


12. _For users who receive other benefits from the VA:_ **Where do you currently go to access and manage your benefits?** (_If user does not use the VA.gov website to access and manage their benefits:_ **If you were to access and manage your benefits on VA.gov, where would you go?)**
	- **Would you expect to access your other benefits from this page or somewhere else on the VA.gov website?**
	
  I expected to see you typical health records. But it’s a lot more than expected to see you and that’s really fresh here because now I don’t have the search cause I have a certain clicking buttons. Everything is assessable right on the front porch. Good headings stuff like that and medical supplies is great, specifically for ordering here in a battery is because I don’t know if you had a call into Colorado whatever but it’s super stressful and they were like oh we had to ship them to you and I was like that’s not the right address but everything‘s here and everything‘s connected. We could do one stop fixes Fixes. 

This has a lot more than I totally expected and I haven’t seen anything yet. That brings up a red flag. Besides that reminds me I’m over 50. You know when I add up scroll up button that is a vantage or even like a middle or half page 
  
Yes, an easer way - like with the messaging - like link up to the nurser - cause right now you have to be connected with them - maybe someone that screens through them - this goes to Dr. so and so - just something easier.  Just something like my neck is hurting today like a Tele health emergency room nurse just heard you’re not sure if it’s emergency or not so might I have a link you don’t have to go in right away

Is there a holistic section on here?

R: where would you look for that?

P: no idea I mean I have five different apps from the VA that tell me how to breathe and be nice to have a page that says here doing acupuncture we’re doing  tai chi because right now everybody Google stuff and 90% of the stuff on Google are scams

  
	- _For users who do not receive other benefits from the VA:_ **If you had benefits, would you expect to access those benefits from this page or somewhere else on the VA.gov website?*



16. **If you wanted to be reminded that you have an appointment, that would require setting that up as a "preference." How would you go about doing that?**
	- _Probe for whether this should be in Profile or somewhere health-specific._ 

She would navigate to appointments

P that’s an option? I just go into I just get the letters.

R: so you go to the appointment section

P: yes, because it says appointments. Yeah I don’t know where it would be in the section unless it was next to the appointment where it says something like remind me 24 hours in advance. But I got text messages for every appointment. I wasn’t sure if everybody gets that.

R: do you have to sign up so somebody must’ve helped you to sign up at some point


17. What about if you wanted to sign up to track you prescription refills, like you can on Amazon - where would you go to sign up to do that? 
	- _Probe for whether this should be in Profile or somewhere health-specific._ 

I will go to medication’s. There is track prescription now I got like one out of 10 prescriptions. I got. Hey we sent you some thing here’s a tracking number. I wish they had like an automatic like they would send you something automatically.

Facilitator shows purchase been how to opt into that


18. **Is there anything else that we haven't talked about that you think I should know?**





## Thank You and Closing - 1 minute

Well we really appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us today. Your feedback is so helpful to us as we continue to learn about Veterans so we can improve the online tools that we provide.

If you know any other Veterans, caregivers, or service members who might be willing to participate in a future research session like this one, you can pass along the web link that you'll receive in your email from our team. 

Thank you so much again, and I hope that you enjoy the rest of your day!

