## Warm-up Questions - 5-10 minutes
Let’s start with a few questions... 

1. **What kind of device are you using today? *(Computer / Tablet / Smartphone)*** 

Smartphone


2. ***(If using assistive technology:)* How would you rate your level of experience with using [specific assistive technology, such as a screen reader]--beginner, intermediate, advanced, or expert?**



  
- *(If using assistive technology:)* **How long have you been using [specific assistive technology]?**




3. **What benefits other than healthcare, if any, do you receive from the VA?**

Compensation



## Usability testing - 40-50 minutes

4. _Starting from [new home page](https://www.va.gov/new-home-page/):_ **Using VA.gov, if you wanted to send a message to your doctor to follow up about a question you had in a previous appointment, how would you go about doing that?**
	- _Nudge and probe as appropriate. If get totally lost, help them out. Ultimately, need them to sign in._

Go into messenger, and send a message. I've done that a number eof times. I used to go into eBenefits _(scrolls to menu)_. Clicks on Health Care hub -> send a message to your healthcare team. Lands on VA Secure Message. 

_Jonathan directs to sign in. Participant clicks on MHV sign in._ 

J: Why sign in via MHV sign in? 

that's the one that I sign in.

_So many nagivation challenges w/ participant; decide to switch to CodePen prototype._


- _Optional alternative approach:_ **There is a new section where you can find all of your personal health information, like your messages with your doctor and your personal health records.** _(If person is MHV user, let them know that we are moving MHV onto VA.gov.)_ 

- **Starting from this home page, how would you find this new page with all your personal health information?**





5. _Once the person arrives at landing page:_ **Why don't you spend a little time getting to know this page.**
 	- _After they've moseyed about:_ **What do you think this space is?**


Top is MyHealtheVet - very understandable. Appointments, Messages, Medications - all very understandable. 


6. **What do you believe you are supposed to be able to do here?**

J: What is page is all about? Be able to do here?

Suppsoed to be abel to manage your VA healthcare. Both requesting/ revealing upcoming appts, what meds on, waht appts are in future, have ability to ocntact treatment team of PCP. Records - can download health records reflecting waht Tx you received, waht diagnoses had, meds on. I think it's a great tool. 




7. **What would you expect to be able to do or find if you clicked on the link "Download my medical record (Blue Button)?** _(Read Health Records section options aloud for participants using screenreaders to save them having to find the section.)_


I would think you could review any of yoru ongoing treatments received at VA, possible exeption - psychiatric records, if in opinion of physicians, would be harmful/upsetting to you. May not be able to review those. But toehrs - labs/ tests, etc. can review. 



8. **What about "Health history" - what do you think you would find if you clicked on that link?**


I think that would reflect waht your HH been trhough department of VA since started receiving treatment, history o fblood pressure, weight control, meds on, any procedures given to you. An overview of waht your health is, has been. 

**If wanted entire records, where click?**

Download your medical record. Pretty simple. As long as - I htink you need premium account to do that, but once have htat, I've gotten med records in past. I think most people that have a premium account are pretty versed in how to sescure the diff things on that - prescription refills, upcoming appts, even downloading records. 


9. **If you needed to get paid back by the VA for having to drive a long distance to a VA medical center for an appointment, where would you go to submit the receipts to be paid back?**

Travel reimbursement. I think used to be btts - don that a number of times. Thought was very confusing initially. But once into system and on it, much easier. 




10. **If you needed to see a healthcare provider outside of the VA and you wanted to see if that would still be covered by your VA benefits, how would you figure that out?*


Well, never done that, but I think i'm familiar with it. To see someone outside VA system, I think you need authorization from loca lVA facility that don't offer type of Tx or appt you need. Through VA healthcare system or primary care team. 

**On this screen, how go about doing that?**

I don't know, because I've never done it. _SCrolls past Community Care._ I think you'd hvave to go update VA benefits... I don't know. THat one I don't know. 

- **What do you think the My VA health enefits section includes? What is this section "about"?**

How does your whole VA health benefits - what you're eligible to request or receive, and what have received in past. This looks like also reflects what types of copays you have or what you would need, not nee,d waht requireemnt would make you hav ea copya. Mental health services - explanatory. Waht the VA would offer any veteran in crisis or believes needs mental health treatment. Dental care - again, limited just to certain amt of veterans. Community Cre - outside VA healthcare system. And the others are, just, yeah. 


11. _For users who are familiar with MHV:_ **How is this site different than MHV?**

Much easier, understanbable - what you might request uner particular section. It's pretty self-explanatory if go into section, waht you would be requestig wtihin section. Pretty understandable. 

**What like?**

Just think would be very easy to manage - find what info you're requesting or appts looking at, or managing meds or upcoming appts. Whatever it is you're looking for. How to request travel reimbursement. 




12. _For users who receive other benefits from the VA:_ **Where do you currently go to access and manage your benefits?** (_If user does not use the VA.gov website to access and manage their benefits:_ **If you were to access and manage your benefits on VA.gov, where would you go?)**

To eBenefits. That tells you what benefits are available. So much depends on what service-connected disability are and what you're eligible for. But eBenefits is very understandable, I believe. 

**Would you expect to access your other benefits from this page or somewhere else on the VA.gov website?**
	
I think you'd have to go to eBenefits, I believe. 



13. **What information would you expect to see on this landing page but don't?**

I think it's pretty all encompassing. If you're having a mental health breakdown, have the Crisis Line at the top of the page. I think that's great reminder to Veteran that can talk to someone, calm down. 


14. **Many of these links take you elsewhere, like back to MHV. Is that what you expected? How do you feel about that?** 

Um, I dont use these resources at bottom very much because pretty familiar how to get info I need, either through MHV or eBenefits. Don't necessarily don't use these down here. 

I think it would be great _(if link took back to MHV)_. 

**Would you have expected to be told if a link took you out of this area?**





15. _Optional question:_ **What do you want to be able to do on this page? How would you go about trying to do that?**






16. **If you wanted to be reminded that you have an appointment, that would require setting that up as a "preference." How would you go about doing that?**
	- _Probe for whether this should be in Profile or somewhere health-specific._ 

In my experience, the VA - if you're in their systme, supplied with email address, you just get automatic notification once a VA scheduled appt has been made - be it dental appt or video call or inpatient appt. Get a reminder. If it's in the system and scheduled, you get a reminder. 





17. **What about if you wanted to sign up for the MHV newsletter - where would you go to do that?**
	- _Probe for whether this should be in Profile or somewhere health-specific._ 






18. **Is there anything else that we haven't talked about that you think I should know?**

I think thew ay the VA is modernized this system, um, it's much more manageable and understandable. More Veteran friendly - I've been using the VA for a long time. I've seen leaps and bounds from what it used to be to what it is now. So much more Veteran friendly. They bend over backwards to assist and help Veterans move forward. Exceptionally pleased witht he ystem, the way it's set up to help Veterans. This one today - it's very well laid out, very easy to understand and navigate. If have question about own health or upcoming health -I think this page would lead to this answer. 
