## Warm-up Questions - 5-10 minutes
Let’s start with a few questions... 

1. **What kind of device are you using today? *(Computer / Tablet / Smartphone)*** 

Smartphone (iPhone 12 Pro)


2. ***(If using assistive technology:)* How would you rate your level of experience with using [specific assistive technology, such as a screen reader]--beginner, intermediate, advanced, or expert?**

Considers himself between advanced and expert. Uses VoiceOver exclusively on both Mac and iPhone.

  
- *(If using assistive technology:)* **How long have you been using [specific assistive technology]?**

Has been using VoiceOver since it first came up with iPhone v. 3xx


3. **What benefits other than healthcare, if any, do you receive from the VA?**

Receives 100% service-connected VA comp. Receives only healthcare and it's sometimes primary, other times secondary to Tricare and Medicare.



## Usability testing - 40-50 minutes

4. _Starting from [new home page](https://www.va.gov/new-home-page/):_ **Using VA.gov, if you wanted to send a message to your doctor to follow up about a question you had in a previous appointment, how would you go about doing that?**
	- _Nudge and probe as appropriate. If get totally lost, help them out. Ultimately, need them to sign in._


- _Optional alternative approach:_ **There is a new section where you can find all of your personal health information, like your messages with your doctor and your personal health records.** _(If person is MHV user, let them know that we are moving MHV onto VA.gov.)_ 

- **Starting from this home page, how would you find this new page with all your personal health information?**

Started out going through all the links and headers on the page to see what the page is about. Chose "schedule or manage health appointments" because it's the only option that mentions "health." 

Aside: had trouble signing in because he uses FaceID to sign in on app and also had trouble determining if he was logged in.



5. _Once the person arrives at landing page:_ **Why don't you spend a little time getting to know this page.**
 	- _After they've moseyed about:_ **What do you think this space is?**

Looked for clues that said "health." The "Download medical record (Blue Button) caught his attention as a feature he really needed because he's had trouble accessing medical records dating back to the 1970s that would have helped him and his current providers.



6. **What do you believe you are supposed to be able to do here?**

"Medical supplies & equipment" was interesting because he usually has to go to a physical location to order things through the VA so he ends up buying things on his own. 

"Veteran health information card" was also interesting - although he uses his SS# to access his records, some Veterans might not have updated their SS#.

When he needs help, he usually calls his providers rather than going through app/site.



7. **What would you expect to be able to do or find if you clicked on the link "Download my medical record (Blue Button)?** _(Read Health Records section options aloud for participants using screenreaders to save them having to find the section.)_


He would except to be able to download and print records for sharing with providers or employers. Ideally, it'd be all his medical records but he'd be satisfied with 6 months of records or the past year. "Whatever they have available, I should be able to download." Insight: key word here is "download".



8. **What about "Health history" - what do you think you would find if you clicked on that link?**

He would expect to review his medical history without having to print or download them. He would expect the same information as Blue Button, just in a viewable format.





9. **If you needed to get paid back by the VA for having to drive a long distance to a VA medical center for an appointment, where would you go to submit the receipts to be paid back?**


Recalled seeing a link to reimbursement for travel. Scrolled up through all the links again to find it. He found the "File a claim for travel reimbursement" link under "Payments" header which makes sense to him (although some hesitation here). If he hadn't found the link by navigating, he would have searched for "travel" or "payments."



10. **If you needed to see a healthcare provider outside of the VA and you wanted to see if that would still be covered by your VA benefits, how would you figure that out?**
	- **What do you think the My VA health enefits section includes? What is this section "about"?**


n/a



11. _For users who are familiar with MHV:_ **How is this site different than MHV?**



It seems to answer all the questions he had.


12. _For users who receive other benefits from the VA:_ **Where do you currently go to access and manage your benefits?** (_If user does not use the VA.gov website to access and manage their benefits:_ **If you were to access and manage your benefits on VA.gov, where would you go?)**
	- **Would you expect to access your other benefits from this page or somewhere else on the VA.gov website?**
	
  
  
  
	- _For users who do not receive other benefits from the VA:_ **If you had benefits, would you expect to access those benefits from this page or somewhere else on the VA.gov website?**


n/a



13. **What information would you expect to see on this landing page but don't?**

He thought through the things he would need:
* Travel
* Upcoming appointments
* Schedule and manage appointments
* Messages 

All of these were on the landing page. He liked that the tasks were grouped by intuitive headings. He uses the rotator(?) tool in VoiceOver to navigate by headings rather than going through every single link. The headings were good but he didn't expect to see "travel reimbursements" under "Payment". 


14. **Many of these links take you elsewhere, like back to MHV. Is that what you expected? How do you feel about that?** 
	- **Would you have expected to be told if a link took you out of this area?**

He expects it and it would be find as long as it tells him first and as long as he knows that the destination is also secure.



15. _Optional question:_ **What do you want to be able to do on this page? How would you go about trying to do that?**






16. **If you wanted to be reminded that you have an appointment, that would require setting that up as a "preference." How would you go about doing that?**
	- _Probe for whether this should be in Profile or somewhere health-specific._ 







17. **What about if you wanted to sign up for the MHV newsletter - where would you go to do that?**
	- _Probe for whether this should be in Profile or somewhere health-specific._ 






18. **Is there anything else that we haven't talked about that you think I should know?**


He likes that there aren't images on the home page that he would have to jump through. He would want the tasks in alphabetical order (or some other logical order) so it's easier for people to know where they are within the page. He'd also like instructions or hints on navigating the page (like "You can navigate with headings" or use certain gestures to go to different pages.)



## Thank You and Closing - 1 minute

Well we really appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us today. Your feedback is so helpful to us as we continue to learn about Veterans so we can improve the online tools that we provide.

If you know any other Veterans, caregivers, or service members who might be willing to participate in a future research session like this one, you can pass along the web link that you'll receive in your email from our team. 

Thank you so much again, and I hope that you enjoy the rest of your day!
