## Warm-up Questions - 5-10 minutes
Let’s start with a few questions... 

1. **What kind of device are you using today? *(Computer / Tablet / Smartphone)*** 

There were three participants that joined this session (friends of the recruited participant)

R:  I’m seeing a couple of smart phones, but are you on a computer tablet or smart phone? 

P1:: I’m on my iPhone 

P2: iPhone

P3: iPhone 


2. ***(If using assistive technology:)* How would you rate your level of experience with using [specific assistive technology, such as a screen reader]--beginner, intermediate, advanced, or expert?**

P1: expert 

P2: yes, mine would be voiceover. Intermediate to advance.

P3: voiceover. intermediate to advance

  
- *(If using assistive technology:)* **How long have you been using [specific assistive technology]?**



3. **What benefits other than healthcare, if any, do you receive from the VA?**

P1: I receive my VA compensation. and I receive low vision support. An adaptive sports technology.

P2: , yes, I receive VA disability

P3: I just received the low vision assistance that’s about it and medical 




## Usability testing - 40-50 minutes

4. _Starting from [new home page](https://www.va.gov/new-home-page/):_ **Using VA.gov, if you wanted to send a message to your doctor to follow up about a question you had in a previous appointment, how would you go about doing that?**
	- _Nudge and probe as appropriate. If get totally lost, help them out. Ultimately, need them to sign in._


P1: I would have to sign in first and then I would have to go to secure messaging Let me see if I could sign in.

P3 signs off

P1: I would go to message and compose message

R: is this a new page for you?

P1: it is a new page. It looks like different if that’s what that’s why I was kind of fumbling because he has appointments and scheduling of top. and then medication‘s a Messages at the bottom and that looks different than it used to.

R: would you go back to the page you were just on? I guess I’m curious what made you go back to your own icon at the top?

P1: because I saw the MIC look different, and I never saw that before with a little arrow with the drop-down that you do that it says menu and you click on that and it has a drop-down

R: I’m wondering if you could do the same thing with the next participant

[Can’t because we didn’t have participants credentials]

[send her the prototype]

R: how would you go about sending a message to your doctor

P2: [she linked back to MHV had to end her participation]


P1 starts sharing screen again 










5. _Once the person arrives at landing page:_ **Why don't you spend a little time getting to know this page.**
 	- _After they've moseyed about:_ **What do you think this space is?**

P: I like the way it is set up. This is telling you right off the top. This is where you at with MHV - and then you scroll down there upcoming appointments and a message and I think it’s in a good order, as a lot of time do you wanna figure out appointment, and then send a message, and medications all on the same screen is good. I like that cause you don’t have to go to a different screen. Seems like the 3 most important things that we do onthe side if right there on the page. 

R: what is this page for?

P: it’s an informational page that lets people know where they could go to manage their care and it also shows exactly what you can manage and I think that is your plan is right there tells you right there. or you could speak to your doctor and check on your meds or order meds so much and informational page.

it’s like a cover letter of information. 


R: when you say information, what kind of information?

P: medical medical, and the government health system

6. **What do you believe you are supposed to be able to do here?**

P: send a message to your doctor. Hopefully you could upload certain documentation. if you need to send a picture or any kind of information. by looking at appointments for scheduling an appointment and schedule appointment. I know we talked about it that you couldn’t schedule a call in. So I don’t know if working out when you can schedule an appointment still had to cal that we need to. I have a call in and get you wait  in-line . Think that would be good.  on messaging am . I wouldn’t change anything with that. I like that. If you like if I have a doctor specialist already popululate there 

I provided I can’t go back in your message my old PA, and DC and I’m  podiatry in Richmond. I can’t cause you not talk to both of them 

The VA don’t talk to each other secure messaging. Like how we blind copy or CC people an email you can’t do that was secure messaging. I’d like to see that with secure messaging. I know it’s probably years down the road.

The way I’ve been using the medication is refilling it online but I like to wait till you see if you have it also shows it all out easily and I can easily message my provider and tell him that I need my medication refill

This is really easy and it’s faster. I know we were working with Alexa being an order online and if that feature works with this app, that would be great. 

P: oh, I just saw some more stuff I didn’t realize. You can download and payment and co-pay of that. You guys put a lot on here order prosthetic socks. This is neat

One stop shop. That’s the hope. 



7. **What would you expect to be able to do or find if you clicked on the link "Download my medical record (Blue Button)?** _(Read Health Records section options aloud for participants using screenreaders to save them having to find the section.)_


P: I’ve done this a lot and I know with the blue button you can download it but I’d still expect a phone has been able to download your medical records and categorize how long far you want to go back and specify if you want labs or radiology or that your health issues summary I just drove like I know you can also do your medication medication list and things like that that’s what I still expect the phone

R: what about the health history section? What would you expect to find?

P: health history, I would hope I would find nachos with the VA put in, but what I put in the system as well. Shots or a shingles shots in so I would think that that we may be included in his part and health history.

R: so what’s the difference between the download my medical records in the health history section?

P: I would input, or on my side, the health history. The download will come from the VA providers . It is more like it would have an ICD nine code.

But to add to this, will talk about what I would like to see any blind and low vision so provider can see that because I know there is stories of providers like sneaking up on people. 




9. **If you needed to get paid back by the VA for having to drive a long distance to a VA medical center for an appointment, where would you go to submit the receipts to be paid back?**

It’s funny you ask that we were talking about this what is not being accessible for blind - file a claim for travel reimbursement - that’s why we’re gone to file it - if I had to go online because the kiosk in the hospital are not acceptable - that’s what I would do the file for reimbursement 


10. **If you needed to see a healthcare provider outside of the VA and you wanted to see if that would still be covered by your VA benefits, how would you figure that out?**
	- **What do you think the My VA health enefits section includes? What is this 

I would think community care - I would like to go to community care and in fact, to see it will be covered

R: What do you think of the My VA health benefits sections? 

P: It’s a resource page. 


11. _For users who are familiar with MHV:_ **How is this site different than MHV?*


P: It’s more cut and dry.  I just like the layout  better just like I said it’s it’s like it’s more like a nicely constructed paper that has  headings - what you can go to instead of just in the past, jumping all over, and I hope that you can find out what this is - but this is all laid out and it seems like this is when I click on something is actually what I was hoping to find -  it seems user-friendly, and without the hiccups in the past 

R: does it feel similar to my healthy vet?

There’s not a lot of changes it just seems like it’s more better laid out and it’s stuff that we need more. It’s right there ready for you. It just seems like somebody herd us and said we want to medication, want appointments, we want to be able to get a doctor and that’s right there. Oh, and I was like if I’m my memory serves me correct when we first started at my healthe vet. The first thing was pop up was that blue button, but you can get your records and that was not always what we needed - the priority things are right here for that when you click on it that’s what I like. 

12. _For users who receive other benefits from the VA:_ **Where do you currently go to access and manage your benefits?** (_If user does not use the VA.gov website to access and manage their benefits:_ **If you were to access and manage your benefits on VA.gov, where would you go?)**
	- **Would you expect to access your other benefits from this page or somewhere else on the VA.gov website?**
	
  P: My E-benefits on my e-Benefits page 

R: if you were to have access to manage your benefits on va.gov instead of e benefits go to look for that stuff? 

P: I would back to the go back to the menu. And click on the VA benefits and healthcare and then I would scroll down from here

This is so much neater. I have to say this is so much better. Now you could just log on and everything’s right there in one place you don’t have to go to three different places have three different passwords. It’s not Ebenefits, the blue button for my records and then secure messaging, it’s all right here. This is good. 

R. You would go to the three different sections to manage those

P: I would hope to be able to disability. And I warn you guys whoever had a play in this this is so much easier. When we needed a paper to get, to show that we were 100% or whatever-r we’re applying for this and that always  log off go to my E benefit and I never had to do that. It’s just one site now…so well done 



13. **What information would you expect to see on this landing page but don't?**

 post Covid but I would expect it to be and mental health crisis right up at the top. Like if I need to talk to someone now.

14. **Many of these links take you elsewhere, like back to MHV. Is that what you expected? How do you feel about that?** 
	- **Would you have expected to be told if a link took you out of this area?**

Yeah.gov is that what you expected out of this site into a different site yeah, like I said cause I thought I would have to log off going to a different totally different link or something I didn’t expect it to be like so if you click on it is there instead of waiting and you have to take this to happen like that happen…I was one of my biggest issue of the navigate from website webpage the web page as opposed to logging in and then, I’m scrolling down and click it and everything’s there so I didn’t expect it to be so much more user-friendly it is like for example when you clicked on the travel reimbursement took you to a different site like how did you feel about that? Was that what you were expecting her prized Ass so I travel I guess, deposit it took me to a different site. I think I am surprised I thought it made me tell you something you had to do it and think it make it easier just to do it right there and that again it makes it easier instead of trying to sit there at that I can’t speak for every VA, but go to when you go to the travel window and him, especially being visually paired they are saying he has the form fill it out or they don’t understand you can’t see it and you ask people to help you fill it out and they don’t have the time because it’s not enough of them in to many bars, and this is easy, you could do it and even if you were, I’m not as computer savvy as me and P2 are you can have somebody there to help you like I’m a caregiver  for most of the time for us if you see a child or grandchild, it computer savvy, I can help And I think that makes it easier makes it is a process tickly because of it with the reimbursement cause I think I got out of that say forget it I’m not gonna get reimbursed message tosome in a pan out of pocket for somebody to take you or take us and they don’t try to get reimbursed for travels. That’s easy I like this the website -  I’m just curious to find out for people that I have to do is Jaws and she was gonna do it with the kinks are up if any areas.


15. _Optional question:_ **What do you want to be able to do on this page? How would you go about trying to do that?**




16. **If you wanted to be reminded that you have an appointment, that would require setting that up as a "preference." How would you go about doing that?**
	- _Probe for whether this should be in Profile or somewhere health-specific._ 


I had that I will go to the appointment schedule and manage my appointments. I think go to appointments and say how are you can I how can I appointment. You manage my care that’s what I was going to.Oh, but I’m surprised 

R: Why? 

P: because of that it was never that easy I know when it first started we had the obvious set up this paper in the with a sign up, saying if we wanted to get email reminders off of him I just like that and it was also I was always someone else I want to help us do it well this you can do it yourself The problem is getting people to use it. I think I think of this is the problem is just getting people to actually come here and put the information in so I can use it to get to use it and I think that’s gonna be the app for me that seem like it’s one of the biggest concerns is rolling out something like this is the lead and everyone know that this is available and to getting them to put it in, the VA give us his phones and then IEP and use and the computer is capabilities. I should say him because not everybody like I said not everyone’s computer savvy but if you can get your healthcare provider on your social work or whatever to put this in it makes it a lot easier easier and it makes it easier for people to make the appointments cancel the appointment and because it’s so hard to get appointments for some specialty care teams but mental health and people won’t be missed appointments or someone else can have an appointment I think, that’s important 

17. What about if you wanted to sign up to track you prescription refills, like you can on Amazon - where would you go to sign up to do that?
Probe for whether this should be in Profile or somewhere health-specific.




18. **Is there anything else that we haven't talked about that you think I should know?**







## Thank You and Closing - 1 minute

Well we really appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us today. Your feedback is so helpful to us as we continue to learn about Veterans so we can improve the online tools that we provide.

If you know any other Veterans, caregivers, or service members who might be willing to participate in a future research session like this one, you can pass along the web link that you'll receive in your email from our team. 

Thank you so much again, and I hope that you enjoy the rest of your day!


