products/identity/Products/Product Briefs/External Auth Data Reporting (Draft).md, before:

# External Auth Data Reporting (Draft)

## Overview: 
There are basically two goals of this project:

- Understand what kind of user data VA Leadership wants from the Identity Team.
- Display and explain the user data in a way that is easy to understand and report upon.

## Problem Statement: 
The data produced by the Identity Team is often not instantly understandable and can be misinterpreted or misrepresented.  We need to find out what kind of data VA Leadership finds useful, and create a way for them to access that data on a regular basis.

## Relevant Documents: 
[Current VA.Gov Identity Stats Datadog Dashboard](https://vagov.ddog-gov.com/dashboard/e3q-6kp-9r4/vagov-identity-stats-public?fromUser=false&refresh_mode=sliding&view=spans&from_ts=1710610618968&to_ts=1713202618968&live=true)



## What's In Scope: 
For this first iteration, the focus will be on user authorization data specifcially for VA Leadership:
* Determine what kinds of user authorization data they find useful.
  * Why are they asking for that data?
  * What is the impact of the data?
* Display the user authorization data for VA Leadership
  * Ensure that there is a common language: that everybody has the same definition of what X is.
  * Industry standards surrounding reporting & displaying user data.
  * We keep the data display as simple as possible.
    * Nothing extraneous -- or secondary -- that we might use to monitor performance ourselves, but could easily be misunderstood.
  * We have easily-understood explanation for what each data point is, and why it's important.

## Out of Scope: (for this iteration)
* Data not specifically for VA Leadership

## Use Cases:
| User          | Problem       | Solution  |
| ------------- |:-------------:| -----:|
| VA Leadership | I want to understand data how Veterans access VA.gov | This dashboard  |

(We'll build out the use cases on a more specific level after we do the research on what kind of data VA leadership is looking for.)

## Assumptions:
* There are common pieces of user authorization data that VA Leadership is continually wanting to view.

## Solution Approach: 
* Do research to determine what kind of data VA Leadership needs.
* Do research around industry standards for reporting & displaying user data.
* Build out the data dashboard, making sure that it's simple and easily interpreted.

  
## Technical Considerations:
| Issue         | Notes         | 
| ------------- |:-------------:| 
| |               |

## UX/ Design Considerations:
| Issue         | Notes         | 
| ------------- |:-------------:| 
|  |               |


## Measuring Success:
| KPI           | Notes         | 
| ------------- |:-------------:| 
| |               |


## Baseline KPI Values:
| KPI           | Notes         | 
| ------------- |:-------------:| 
|  |               |


## Milestones:
* Launch Dates


## Future Scope:
*

Commit message:

Update External Auth Data Reporting (Draft).md

products/identity/Products/Product Briefs/External Auth Data Reporting (Draft).md, after:

# External Auth Data Reporting (Draft)

## Overview: 
External Auth Data Reporting is coming up with the data we are sharing with VA leadership and others surrounding the full authorization process, which is defined as a person doing the following: 
1. Choosing one of our CSP (Credential Service Providers) on the VA.gov sign-in page.
2. Providing credentials on the CSP's login.
3. Returning back to VA.gov with their identity verified.

There are basically two goals of this initial phase of the project:

- Understand what kind of user data VA Leadership wants from the Identity Team.
- Display and explain the user data in a way that is easy to understand and report upon.

## Problem Statement: 
The data produced by the Identity Team is often not instantly understandable and can be misinterpreted or misrepresented.  We need to find out what kind of data VA Leadership finds useful, and create a way for them to access that data on a regular basis.

## Relevant Documents: 
[Current VA.Gov Identity Stats Datadog Dashboard](https://vagov.ddog-gov.com/dashboard/e3q-6kp-9r4/vagov-identity-stats-public?fromUser=false&refresh_mode=sliding&view=spans&from_ts=1710610618968&to_ts=1713202618968&live=true)



## What's In Scope: 
For this first iteration, the focus will be on user authorization data specifcially for VA Leadership:
* Determine what kinds of user authorization data they find useful.
  * Why are they asking for that data?
  * What is the impact of the data?
* Display the user authorization data for VA Leadership
  * Ensure that there is a common language: that everybody has the same definition of what X is.
  * Industry standards surrounding reporting & displaying user data.
  * We keep the data display as simple as possible.
    * Nothing extraneous -- or secondary -- that we might use to monitor performance ourselves, but could easily be misunderstood.
  * We have easily-understood explanation for what each data point is, and why it's important.

## Out of Scope: (for this iteration)
* Data not specifically for VA Leadership

## Use Cases:
| User          | Problem       | Solution  |
| ------------- |:-------------:| -----:|
| VA Leadership | I want to understand data how Veterans access VA.gov | This dashboard  |

(We'll build out the use cases on a more specific level after we do the research on what kind of data VA leadership is looking for.)

## Assumptions:
* There are common pieces of user authorization data that VA Leadership is continually wanting to view.

## Solution Approach: 
* Do research to determine what kind of data VA Leadership needs.
* Do research around industry standards for reporting & displaying user data.
* Build out the data dashboard, making sure that it's simple and easily interpreted.

  
## Technical Considerations:
| Issue         | Notes         | 
| ------------- |:-------------:| 
| |               |

## UX/ Design Considerations:
| Issue         | Notes         | 
| ------------- |:-------------:| 
|  |               |


## Measuring Success:
| KPI           | Notes         | 
| ------------- |:-------------:| 
| |               |


## Baseline KPI Values:
| KPI           | Notes         | 
| ------------- |:-------------:| 
|  |               |


## Milestones:
* Launch Dates


## Future Scope:
*
