# Request & Support Process Phase 2

## Overview: 

Top Goals:  One of our 2024 OKRs is develop an Identity Team Request & Support process for va.gov, which will help us help other teams far more efficiently than currently.

* Create an intake process for feature requests, updates, bug fixes, data requests, etc.
* Allow folks to self-service (access pre-existing materials/answers/FAQ's as much as possible)
* Ability to view all requests holistically
  
For the MVP we leveraged the Slackbot (aka ID Bot) already in development for Sign-In Service requests, and added the following kinds of requests:
- PR Review
- Data pulls
- Test User Authentication Issues
These were chosen because these are requests that our team unambiguously fulfills, and we believe that if we run these cases through the full request and support process, we can then expand it to understand other kinds of requests.

In addition, we created:
- A Github page to to explain how to request support from identity.
- Github Support Template
- Documentation that explained how we supported each of the three kinds of requests detailed above.
- Satisfaction Survey

## Problem Statement: 
Now that we have an MVP of the Request & Support out in the world, we need to iterate on it so that it covers all of the request types, refine the process by which we fulfill requests and measure how we are doing.

## Relevant Documents:
- [UX Brainstorm & Research](https://app.mural.co/t/oddballinternal7486/m/oddballinternal7486/1706233585959/51586c97a249268a2ff9a709024dcd9df18dc6f8?sender=u8f85d3b7f2143f85bb7a9248) 
- Final documents generated by this project will live in the [Request & Support folder](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/tree/master/products/identity/Products/Request%20%26%20Support%20Process)
- [Request & Support Epic](https://app.zenhub.com/workspaces/identity-5f5bab705a94c9001ba33734/issues/gh/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/74622)
- [Requesting Support From The Identity Team](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/blob/master/products/identity/Support%20Documents/requesting-support-from-Identity.md)
- [GitHub Support Template](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/issues/new?assignees=&labels=Identity&projects=&template=1identity-help.yaml)
- [Satisfaction Survey](https://dj540s05.optimalworkshop.com/questions/52low0ey)

## Potential deliverables:
- New Request Types in ID Bot
- New Request Type Fulfillment Processes in Github
- Dashboard to display metrics gathered from customer survey
- Automation of ID Bot responses to certain situations in process flow

## What's In Scope:
* Adding the following Request Types in ID Bot:
  * Bug Fixes
  * Feature Requests
  * Task Request
  * Help Request
  * USiP Questions
* Documentation on how to handle the following request types
  * Bug Fixes
  * Feature Requests
  * Task Requests
  * Help Requests
  * USiP
* Slackbot message automation
   * When a request is assigned.
   * When a request is closed.
* Dashboard displaying results of Satisfaction Survey
* Identity Team branding updates
* Letting the world know

## Out of Scope (MVP): 
* External publishing of metrics garnered from Satisfaction Survey
  * This will be part of the upcoming "Publishing all of the Metrics" project
     

## Use Cases:
| User          | Problem       | Solution to their Problem |
| :------------- |:------------- | :----- |
|Va.gov product team member| Want to ask a data pull |   |
|Va.gov product team member | Want to ask for PR review  |  | 
|Va.gov product team member  | Having issues with Mock Auth   |  |
|Identity team member | Which request should we focus on?  |  |
|Identity team member | No standardized language to communicate with users  |  |
|Identity team member | I don't have a top-level view of the requests | |



## Assumptions:
* ID Bot is used by people in #vsp-identity.
* People fill out the Satisfaction Survey.
* People are looking at the documentation we've provided.

## Solution Approach: 




  
## Technical Considerations:
| Issue         | Notes         | 
| ------------- |:-------------:| 
| Slackbot / Github Connection | Right now, we can have slack can write to github, but not vice versa        |
| Potential Move to Jira | If/when we move to Jira, how much of this work will be duplicated? |

## UX/ Research Ideas Considerations:
| Issue         | Notes         | 
| ------------- |:-------------:| 
|  Dashbo |               |
|  |               |
|   |               |


## Measuring Success:
Measuring the success of the Request & Support process project will be part of the focus of an entire project: O4KR2 - Establish and publish monthly metrics around response times for VA.gov product teams.

That said, some initial thoughts on what that project might entail.
| KPI           | Notes         | 
| ------------- |:-------------| 
| Number of requests | On a monthly basis, we track how many requests were fulfilled via the Request & Support | 
| Percentage of requests | On a monthly basis, we track the percentage of requests that were fulfilled via the Request & Support tracker |
| Customer Satisfaction | Create a customer satisfaction survey



## Baseline KPI Values:
| KPI           | Notes         | 
| ------------- |:-------------:| 
|  |               |


## Milestones:

  


## Future Scope:
* 
