products/identity/Products/Product Briefs/User Actions on VA gov (Draft).md, before:

# User Actions on VA.gov (Draft)

## Overview: 
Show Veterans their actions on VA.gov


## Problem Statement: 
Currently, Veterans have no way of seeing the actions they've taken on VA.gov


## Relevant Documents:

## What's In Scope: 
For this first iteration, the focus will be on:
* 

## Out of Scope: (for this iteration)
*

## Use Cases:
| User          | Problem       | How does this solution address the problem?  |
| ------------- |:-------------:| -----:|
| |   |   |

## Assumptions:
* 

## Solution Approach: 
* 
  
## Technical Considerations:
| Issue         | Notes         | 
| ------------- |:-------------:| 
| |               |

## UX/ Design Considerations:
| Issue         | Notes         | 
| ------------- |:-------------:| 
|  |               |


## Measuring Success:
| KPI           | Notes         | 
| ------------- |:-------------:| 
| |               |


## Baseline KPI Values:
| KPI           | Notes         | 
| ------------- |:-------------:| 
|  |               |


## Milestones:
* Launch Dates


## Future Scope:
*

Commit message:

Update User Actions on VA gov (Draft).md

products/identity/Products/Product Briefs/User Actions on VA gov (Draft).md, after:

# User Actions on VA.gov (Draft)

## Overview: 
Show Veterans their actions on VA.gov


## Problem Statement: 
Currently, Veterans have no way of seeing when they've logged into VA.gov, showing them this could lead to discovery of fraud.


## Relevant Documents:

## What's In Scope: 
For this first iteration, the focus will be on:
* 

## Out of Scope: (for this iteration)
*

## Use Cases:
| User          | Problem       | How does this solution address the problem?  |
| ------------- |:-------------:| -----:|
| |   |   |

## Assumptions:
* 

## Solution Approach: 
* 
  
## Technical Considerations:
| Issue         | Notes         | 
| ------------- |:-------------:| 
| |               |

## UX/ Design Considerations:
| Issue         | Notes         | 
| ------------- |:-------------:| 
|  |               |


## Measuring Success:
| KPI           | Notes         | 
| ------------- |:-------------:| 
| |               |


## Baseline KPI Values:
| KPI           | Notes         | 
| ------------- |:-------------:| 
|  |               |


## Milestones:
* Launch Dates


## Future Scope:
*
