# My HealtheVet Personal Information Discovery Research - P1 notes
3/30/2022


**Moderator:** You have a MHV account, how do you use the personal info section? 
User: “I like to look at upcoming appts, pharmacy, meds, my wife uses it too to see how things are going with therapy and meds, if there’s been any changes. I can go to appts and go in and show my wife the notes from those appts.”

**Moderator:** Do you ever use the profile, health info, emergency contacts, etc? 
User: “I personally have not. My wife probably has.”

**Moderator:** If you have to update personal info how do you do that? 
User: “I usually call or my wife does it on here.” 

**Moderator:** Let’s take a look at MHV. Can you login and share your screen once you’re logged in? *User is signing in*
*User shares that he is using a touch screen computer and having some trouble logging in*

**Moderator:** Can you click on personal info link? Do any of these links look familiar? 
User: “Yes.” 
**Moderator:** Have you used any of them? 
User: “I’ve changed my password, that might actually be it.”

**Moderator:** Let’s go to the profile page - My Profile. Tell me how you use this page - you said you don’t really use it so take a look and tell me how you think it might be useful to you if you used it. I’d like to focus on My Profile, Update Profile Info, in the middle of the page. *User looks over the page.* 
User: “Feel like I’d be signing up for like a social media thing.” 
**Moderator:** Can you say more about that? 
User: “It seems like a place to make sure the VA has all your info correct. It’s just personal info I guess like it states.”

**Moderator:** Why are some of the boxes greyed out? 
User: “Stuff you can’t change. Stuff you have to talk to the VA about changing. I don’t have the ability to change it because if I do there’s a lot of things with the VA that would have to change and they don’t want me to mess things up because I’m a vet and vets mess things up.”

**Moderator:** Do you think any of these fields are important for you to be able to change? 
User: “When I went to the VA, I went to an appt and they thought I was a Vietnam vet. It’s good to be able to change stuff like that so they know who they are taking care of. It’s cool that you can change your name if you don’t like being called that.” 
**Moderator:** If you changed that where do you think that would be reflected back to you? 
User: “Maybe at appts, my primary care doctor might be able to see it before my appts, maybe in letters sent to me.”

**Moderator:** Please scroll down to some other content. 
User: “Oh the blood type - that’s important. That is accurate.”
*User scrolls down.* 
User: “Oh I didn’t know you could get notifications. That’s actually really cool. I get text reminders for appts. Is this the same thing or would it send it through email?” 
**Moderator:** What do you think? 
User: “Oh it says right there - email notification reminders.” 
**Moderator:** How would you update your text notifications? 
User: “Umm…down below?” *User scrolls down the page.* 
User: “Oh wow they have a thing for pager. Didn’t know people still used those. I see you can put a preferred VA medical center. But the text messages, I really don’t know.”

**Moderator:** On the VA treating facilities section - what is this for? 
User: “So that way…where your medical records are located. So that your insurance shows where your primary doctors are I’m assuming? Maybe that’s dumb. That way the VA knows where you prefer your primary care to be? But mine is definitely not one of these options. Oh wait, it is, I didn’t see it. It’s this one here.” *User checks West Palm Beach FL.* 
**Moderator:** Does it help you in any other ways to be able to update this? 
User: “So I know where to get my medical records in case I need to see an outside provider I can call them to get my records to them.” 
**Moderator:** If you were to save this, what would happen to your records in Buffalo NY? 
User: “They would be sent there I assume.”

**Moderator:** So I know that you have been to multiple facilities - can you tell me about that experience? 
User: “Well I was going to Syracuse NY and the one in West Palm is way bigger. It’s the main hospital. But there are others that are closer to me. It’s hard getting back into things with new doctors. I moved and don’t know what I expected having to restart everything again.” 
**Moderator:** Have you experienced any other challenges woth the move? 
User: “The meds were easy to switch to new address. Finding doctors that I’m okay going to has been a challenge.”

**Moderator:** Have you encountered any challenges with online tools with choosing the right facility? 
User: “That’s been pretty straightforward. Online I haven’t done too much online appts yet. I know it’s supposed to be easier than calling and being on hold for a long time. I know I need to get into using this more. And I know you can talk to your doctors on here.” 
**Moderator:** So you don’t use those features? 
User: “No, my wife does. Not the scheduling but she can talk to my doctors if she needs to.” 

**Moderator:** Can you scroll back up to your current relationship with VA? *User scrolls up.* 
**Moderator:** I’m curious about the selections. How did those get selected? 
User: “Well I’m the veteran, I’m a patient there. So I’m not any of the other options. My wife…those are what describe me.” 
**Moderator:** Did you select those? 
User: “I didn’t, maybe my wife did.” 
**Moderator:** How does it help you to be able to update this? 
User: “I don’t know if there would be a time where I would unless I started working there or something. It seems like if my wife made her account she could be a veteran advocate or caregiver.” 
**Moderator:** Does she have an account? 
User: “I don’t think so. I didn’t know she could make her own account.” 
**Moderator:** I think she could be a delegate and have her own account.

**Moderator:** Could you scroll back up to the menu from the beginning of the session? *User scrolls up but his screen is lagging.* 
**Moderator:** Please click on In Case of Emergency.

**Moderator:** Have you ever used this feature? 
User: “I added my wife before.” 
**Moderator:** How is this useful? 
User: “Being able to add or take away someone in case something happens to me or if I didn’t want my wife to be my emergency contact, that’s useful. The VA knows who they can provide personal info to.” 
**Moderator:** How does the VA see this information? 
User: “On the previous screen where it said VA employee, I think my doctors can see all of the info in MHV.” 
**Moderator:** They actually can’t just so you know that. I was curious if that was clear to you.

**Moderator:** Let’s go to the health information card. *User clicks on link.* 
User: “Is that part of that wallet card?” 
**Moderator:** Yeah this is where the emergency contact goes. 
User: “Okay then I need to update my address. That’s an old address.” 
**Moderator:** Can you tell me about how you use this page? 
User: “I haven’t actually or else I would’ve changed the address. It looks like there’s a lot of updating that needs to be done. The primary provider isn’t on there.” 
**Moderator:** How would this card be useful to you? 
User: “If I ever had to have some kind of surgery I could bring it in so they had it all. I don’t know other than that.” 
**Moderator:** Would you print this out and keep it in your wallet? 
User: “Yeah, now that I see it. Once I update it.” 
**Moderator:** Are there any other scenarios you think the VA would have your info without this card? 
User: “I mean this info should all be in the VA system and hopefully more updated than this.”

**Moderator:** Let’s go to the My Links page in the dropdown menu. *User clicks on My Links.* 
**Moderator:** Tell me about how you use this page. 
User: “It seems like I can take notes about my department, stuff that I personally want to remember. It’s to keep track of…hm. My Links. No that’s not true. If there’s a website that seems hard to get to I might be able to add it here.” 
**Moderator:** Go ahead and click on that [Add New] button. I’m curious how this might be useful to you. *User scrolls down the page. 
User: “*I don’t know…” *Laughs.* “Seems like if there’s…no I don’t know what I would use this for. I don’t know what I would use it for, I’m sorry.” 
**Moderator:** That’s okay! Is it clear to you what this does? 
User: “Seems like you can add links to any website you want a quick link to.”

**Moderator:** Now we’re gonna do a sorting activity on a different website. *User opens link that Liz sent in chat.*
**Moderator:** Explains the card sorting activity and what it’s for.
*User drags the practice card to the white space and renames the category. He’s able to drag it to another group. User doesn’t have any questions.*

**Moderator:** Please think out loud while you group the cards. 
User: “So the notification settings, that would be on the Health Care website?” 
**Moderator:** Whatever makes sense to you. What do you expect? 
User: “The prescription part would be on profile cause it’s personal info. Same with the caregivers, her information would be on my profile. It seems like my profile should be all my personal information.” *User drags your birthday to Profile.* 
User: “So payments from the VA? I get disability pay - that would be My Profile.” *Laughs.* “Same with my email address - on my profile. And my mailing address, the same. Printable wallet health information - so that card we just looked at? That would go in profile too.” 
**Moderator:** Now why would that go there instead of health care things?
User: “Cause it’s all personal information again. Address, all that stuff. Well, I guess that’s a lot of information just to have in your profile.” 
**Moderator:** Is that a problem? 
User: “If everything’s on the profile then what’s the point of having the website and not just your profile page pop up when you sign in?”
*User drags notification settings to profile.* 
User: “Your non-VA health insurance - so, you said the VA can’t see anything right? Unless it’s on that card?” 
**Moderator:** Well in MHV they don’t have access to your self-journaled entries. They can’t see those records. For this we’re just thinking broadly not just for MHV. Try not to think into whether the VA could see it, think where it would make sense for you to find it. 
User: “This isn’t really important to me.” *User drags non-VA health insurance to Not Important.*

User: “My next of kin - under my profile.” *User drags it to My Profile.* “I’m just kind of reading to see if there’s anything…This [Notification settings for MHV newsletter] could go to health care cause that’s not really my personal information. Tracking device - that could be good under health care like the website itself. It’s letting me know there’s an option to do that and I didn’t know which is kinda cool.”

User: “[List of apps] - this seems like it’s about the website itself so it can be over here” *Points to health care.* “The rest seems like personal info so it can go on my profile so I can update it if I need to. That’s anything I can personally update. The list of VA facilities - That’s those 3 facilities right? I can’t really update that. Was I able to update that? I saw the checkboxes but I couldn’t add a facilitity right? It would be helpful to update so I could add other clinics I go to [smaller clinics under the larger system]. It’d be more helpful to see it at the clinic level. Maybe be able to click on each one and open up what I’ve done there and the records to sort my information based on what doctors you’ve seen.”

User: “Your non-VA health insurance…” *User drags it out of Not Important but then drags it back in.* Seems like the rest of this [blood type, power of attorney, amergency contacts] would be on my profile. Power of attorney - I don’t have one of those yet. *Grabs blood type.* I didn’t see a section where I could update that.” 
**Moderator:** Yes some of these things are just things we’re thinking about adding.” 
User: “Yeah, I don’t know how to do that so that’d be cool if that was an option on here.” 
**Moderator:** Your blood type - why did you put that in Profile instead of health care? 
User: “I was just thinking it’s not something you can update but it’s personal information but I could see why that would go up here [in Health Care].” 
**Moderator:** What about the providers and doctors; why did that make more sense under Profile than health care? 
User: “I’ve had problems with some of the doctors down here. I don’t know if it’d be possible to request a provider change, I don’t know if that makes sense. That way I can put the names of all the doctors I have, I have like 20 of them.” 
**Moderator:** This would help you manage which doctors you have? And it’s more intituive to have that under profile than health care? 
User: “Yes.” 

**Moderator:** You originally put blood type under profile but then moved it to health care after I asked you. If it makes more sense to you there, I didn’t mean to make you change it. *User drags blood type back to Profile.* 
User: “I just think anything personal should be under profile all in one place.”
*User clicks Finish button.* 
**Moderator:** That’s everything I wanted your feedback on. Any comments? 
User: “No, not that I can think of. No questions.” 

**Moderator:** Do you know any other veterans who might want to participate in future research? 
User: “I have a buddy who might.” *Liz to send an email to user about this.*
