# My HealtheVet Personal Information Discovery Research - P11 notes
4/1/22

**How do you use the personal information section of the site**

Is that the one about where I live, next of kin?

**Yes**

I keep that up to date.

That's a thing I have, with the military, I always keep that up to date.

**When you need to update info with VA, where else do you make that update?**

I go into DS login.

**Thank you. I'm going to share my screen. This is a test account.**

**Does any of that look familiar?**

Yes, I use that to update my profile, my personal information

I change my password and download my info into a spreadsheet or document.

I print my information card.

I haven't had to change it yet, but...next of kin.

**Can you click on "My Profile"? Take a look, let me know how you would use this.**

I'd make sure it was my info - first name, last name, gender.

**Do you have that filled out in yours?**

I believe so - I never know why they ask the question, don't know why they don't like the first name, they use their middle name.

I always call my youngest son by his middle name, because his first is like mine, I don't want to get confused.

**Some of the fields are grayed out - why do you think that is?**

Because it's personal information. Anyone can actually get into the account. To change it you actually need to get into DS Login itself or, show your ID card in your military base.

Why is gender grayed out? Nowadays you can change your sex, not that I want to. I guess you'd have to change that in DS Login.

Date of birth never changes.

Personal info is not to be distributed around unless there's permission to make changes.

**What fields are important for you to update or change?**

At the beginning if it's correct...[notifications and reminders] would be awesome to change.

Email - I don't want to use my government address. I want to use my personal one.

I don't want to give my personal number, just my cell phone.

I don't want them to bother my wife or family.

Whenever you put in your number it's spread out to the entire world. 

I'd like to change thee question and password to have a different one

**Does anything you see here surprise you?**

*Part looks through page, stops at contact info, treating facilities.*

No.

**Any questions?**

I don't know about My VA Treatment Facilities.

Seems like that's where my medical center is located. I'm in Virginia, so that's where I'd go. Folks who live in Northern Virginia might want to go to DC.

**What would checking a box in MY VA Facilities do?**

In case I move...? Can I click on it?

*Clicks*

It doesn't give you choices. I'd like to see a list of locations. Instead of going to Richmond if I want to go to DC VA hospital, I'd be able to change to DC for my records to be kept there.

**If you switched your facilities, what'd happen?**

All my records would be accessible from that hospital. My assigned doctors, my old ones would be new doctors in that area.

**Anything else you'd need to do to make that happen?**

No, after that I'd just be able to go up to the front to ask for an appointment. In Richmond they have different color clinics - I'd just be able to see which clinic I go to and find my doctor there.

**What about the "Relationship to VA" field?**

*Laughs*

I'll always be a Veteran, and a patient.

Oh, in case you change...no.

Oh you can add info, like if I become a caregiver...

But I'll always be a...this is confusing.

The first two are about me; I'm a Veteran and a VA patient.

The others are about other people. 

If my wife had access to my account she'd be a caregiver.

I don't know what a service member is - active duty? Why would you be using VA?

I didn't know VA employees could use VA clinic without being veterans.

**How do you think VA uses this information?**

I believe billing reasons - if you have more than one insurance company. Most of VA have Tricare. I believe Tricare pays first, then VA pays next. 

**How would you update your prescription shipping address?**

Not here. Occupation doesn't ask for address.

I'd have to go...

*Looks in My Account*

My account is Premium.

*Looks in My Profile*

This is where I came from.

*Clicks pharmacy*

Gotta be in Personal Information.

*Hovers over My Profile*

**Is that something you'd typically do online?**

I moved here 16 years ago. I don't think I have this capability, haven't changed my address in a while.

**I actually don't know where you do that in MHV. I know it's not here. We'll look at that in the sorting activity.**

**It sounds like you expect to find it in your Profile**

If not there, then it'd be in Pharmacy

**Back in the Personal Information section, click ICE. You'd expect your wife's info here?**

Correct, or whoever I want to have.

**Who can see that?**

The doctor, clergy, it'll be a small group of people who can actually see it - my point of contact. It should be in my records. If I'm not conscious, and can't say who I am.

**You'd use this if not conscious?**

Yes. 

**Click your Health Information Card**

I've printed this. I'll look at the information to make sure it's correct. I didn't know you could edit this. What can you edit? Your address?

**Do you carry this in your wallet?**

Yes. 

Oh here you go, you can change your address. This should be connected to my address [in the profile.]

**This is only updated for this card.**

*Laughs*

**We know there's another health information card, tell me about that.**

This card tells them you're a Veteran, and your address. The other tells you your privileges.

*Looks at card.*

Your privileges that you can only go to a VA hospital. *Notices he's looking at the wrong card.*Oh, this is a new one, an Army one. Where's my card? Did you take it?

*Laughs*

I have all the cards but that one. Good thing I don't have an appointment coming up. Well, that card makes it easy, when you go to your appointment, to check-in, or get your money for travel, but I can't find it.

*L opens the Change Password page*

**How have you used this?**

I haven't because when I go to sign in, they give me 4 or 5 different links, so I go there. I've never played with this, but I've seen it.

**How might this be useful?**

*L clicks [?]*

This is a consolidation of all the links you can use, but I’m not good with input of info like “HTTPS” etc. That’s why I never play with it. It’d be more useful if you had lists of VA links. Like if you had “lose weight”, “what to eat”, “exercise”, etc.

*L stops sharing*

Man you got me worried I can’t find my card - oh, I found it! Phew!

*L sends link to card sort*

*L explains how to share screen*

*L shares her screen*

What happens when you feel like one item belongs to two?

**Think out loud and we’ll talk it through.**

Power of attorney - Profile. It’s like a contract that you want to be kept. In my Profile it’s accessible to the VA office in case something happens to me. 

Caregiver - Profile. Actually I’d split w/My Health, so in case something happens to me they know how to contact me.

Blood type - both Profile and My Health. My Profile is a hard to change thing. Most direct thing. My Health is for my doctor to know always. My health care.

Mailing address - My Profile

Where you receive health care - My Health Care

Notifications for newsletter - A new group, “Personal Group”

Birthday - Profile.

General notifications - Personal.

Emergency contact - My Profile.

Printable wallet - personal.

Non-VA health insurance - who charges me, the Health Care or…skip that for now.

Notifications settings for prescriptions - My Personal

Fitbit - also My Personal. And I’m mad because you can only have a few items you can link. I have a G2 fitness watch and it keeps paces, distance, everything, but you can’t link it to the VA. You guys don’t have compatibility with Samsung yet.

Email address under Personal.

Next of kin under My VA Profile

“Self entered” under Health Care. My Providers, I mean.

I never have to use the last one because I got 70%.

**This one means, if you have disability compensation and you have a deposit coming you’d get a notification coming in 5 days.**

To me that’s not important. Usually that comes to my bank account, 

Choose to share info with VA - My Personal. And I want My Personal up front!

Non-VA Health Insurance will go to My Profile.

**Difference between Personal and Profile?**

Profile - VA needs to access it, more government required stuff.

Personal is, I have access to it. I can put a link on the front of my phone without going through all the links.

**How is health care different? **

The clinic - this is so they have quick access to my facility, stuff like that.

In my mind, My Profile is for the office people, Health Care is for my doctor, Personal is my own stuff I can do whatever I want with it.

Edit

I love this. I was telling the last person I joined this to make 50 dollars. To heck with the money, this is progress you folks are moving forward with things that I like. I join every time I can.





I don’t know whose idea it was to do these things, but I love it. I was telling the last person, at first I joined to make 50 dollars. and then I realized all the good things that you guys are coming up with! To heck with the money this is progress. You guys are moving forward withthings that I like. And having my choice to give information, I love it. Every chance I get to get into it, I do it.

