#  My HealtheVet Personal Information Discovery Research - P2 notes
3/30/22

**I know you have a My HealtheVet account. Tell me how you use the personal information section of the site.**
I use it to make sure all my information is up to date; mailing address, email, changes within my account or healthcare

**Do you any of the other sections of the sites?**
**Yes. After I have an appointment, I give it a few days to check my lab work. I check all the boxes to make sure I have all the demographic information and download it. I think I am up to 113 pages now. Service history. **

**You’re talking about download my data?**
Yes

**If you had to update personal information with VA, how would you go about doing that?**

I would edit things here or call the helpdesk.
*Participant continues:* I do everything. I use it to request any prescriptions or communicate with my PCPs. 
*User’s laptop was acting up, so had to switch to tablet. Takes time to log in and complete MFA. Moderator explains how to share screen on tablet.*

**Take a look at the sections listed under personal information - before clicking on anything, I’d like to know how you’ve used any of these sections before.**
**Yes I’ve used these. The only one I haven’t used is the health information card [though later the participant admits that they has not used My Links]. I’ve looked the Health Information Card but I’ve never downloaded it - I think it is the same information that is in my benefits center. I’ve used change password quite a few times, like when DS logon is wonky, I have to go in and change my password. **

**Let’s take a look at the profile page - can you click on that link please?** **Tell me about how you use this page.**
**I use this page a lot, but if I have to change anything, I have to call the help desk. When I got married and changed my name, I had to call the help desk. **
**The relationship to VA part is populated when you set up your profile. **
**I haven’t updated the welcome bar much. The welcome bar is what shows what name you want to be addressed by, like some people want to be called by their rank still. **
**Reminders - Oh I need to update this. My husband also wants to know about my appointments for scheduling reasons. I use these reminders so I don’t have to log in every day. **
**Preferred VA health center will show up as an option, but you can check it to make it your preferred. **
Account information: I have been locked out quite a few times, so I use these questions to get back in.

**What part of this page is important to be able to edit?**
**My information. It’s important that my name and birthdate, mailing address, should all be up to date. **
**It is good to have this email reminder notification option available. I also get appointment reminders via text and mail. **

**You mentioned being able to change your name. How does it feel that you can’t do that here?**
*Thinks*
Sometimes it can be time consuming. Sometimes when you call the help desk you are waiting a few minutes. If I had the option to change it here, that would be helpful; maybe even give me the option to upload proof of divorce, or other documents to verify. But this information is requested when you apply for benefits - you need to provide divorce decree - so the VA should already have this information.

**If you update your information here in your MHV profile, do these updates go across the VA or to doctors?**
**Yes, once we update it in MHV, doctors can see it. From my experience, other offices can see these updates too. **

**Regarding the Relationship to VA section - how did those get checked?**
**I clicked VA patient and Service Member. When I logged in, these were here. (NOTE - “Veteran” is not checked, but “Service Member” is) You have to pick one of these because there is an asterisk. **

**You have service member clicked, but not veteran - why?**
At the time I was a service member but not yet a veteran. It needs to be updated
*She changed these textboxes as they spoke*

**How is it helpful to be able to update Relationship to VA field?**
**It helps me a lot, because as you saw I was a service member, but now I am retired and they need to know that. The help desk person told me it takes 24-48 hours to update the system. **

**You mentioned that you receive text message notifications. How do you update that?**
*Scrolls to subscribe to email notifications and reminders.*
I would just click “off” [radio button] here.

**And that will update your texts too?**
Yes.

**What is the My VA Treating Facilities for?**

You have the main facility, but if they need to refer me off post or out of network, I assume those new facilities come here. Or, if I want a copy of my records, I would go to the specific hospital (that is not specifically listed in their list - just the main medical center) I would click on it, and be able to request my records. 

**This box [the only checkbox/facility in their My VA Treating Facilities list] wasn’t checked when we first logged in. Now that you have checked the box, what happens?**
*Scrolls down and clicks save. Page reloads, and they go back to the facility section.*
Now this just tells them that I am acknowledging that this is my preferred facility. 

**How do you use the In case of emergency section ?**
Emergency contacts are here in the event you have to fill out your information of who is the point of contact. And for some reason, my husband’s information fell off. When I download my data, it shows my husband’s residence where we stay. Once I update it here, it populates in my health record. 

*Clicks “add new” button and edits the information to add their husband’s contact.*

**Once you hit save, who can see this?**
**The VA, my primary care provider, and it will be now be accurate. If they need an actual address for my husband, they will now have it. **

**[Moderator explains that this information is not actually seen by VA - Participant is surprised]**

**Is it useful for you to update the In Case of Emergency feature?**
If no one can see it, I guess it is helpful for me only? But if doctors can’t see it, then no, it is not useful

*Participant gets logged out.*
*Recording gets stopped.*

*Participant is confused about the yellow “MHV-only Log In Option is going away” box. Has a difficult time navigating the new sign in page. Face recognition autofill does not work. Safari autofill adds the user ID but not password*
*Moderator resumes recording*

**Tell me about how you use The Health Information Card. How might this be useful?**
**Like any insurance card, it can be useful. It has my allergy on it. You can enter provider information. I just added my husband as my emergency contact, so it showed up here. **

**Would you print this out and carry it?**

**Yes. My blood type will go here. Where it says “medical”, I would put any specific antibodies, in the event I need a blood transfusion. **

**[Note: notetaker is still not sure how to populate information into the “Medical” field on the card]**

**How is this different from the other insurance card you are referring to?**
**It is an insurance card, almost like an ID card. You use it for your VA appointments. That is the first thing they ask for when you check in. **

*Tries to show their card, but their camera is off.*

**Tell me about how you use the My Links feature.**
**This is just like a health journal. I have not used it yet. It is anything that is self entered. **

**[Every time they clicks on Add in MHV, the page cannot load]**
*Scrolls through the “add new” page*

**Is this feature useful to you?**
It is. Like say I joined the Move program, I could enter the link here and log my meals etc

**Who else can see your links?**
**Me, and my Primary Care Provider. **

**Cardsorting Activity**
Next of kin is important to me, so it can go in profile. 
Blood type, can go in health care. 
*Thinks about the insurance option.*I don’t want to put it in “not important”, but I don’t know where to put it. I will wait until the end. Same with notifications for a scheduled payment. 
Email and mailing address would definitely go in profile. 
Non VA health insurance can go in VA profile. 
The ability to connect your fitbit can go in health care, because you might monitor your heart rate and blood pressure and store that information here.
Caregivers go under health care. 
VA Facilities and emergency contacts go under profile. 
Wallet goes under profile. Actually, I am going to switch it to health care. If I am going to use my fitbit for health care purposes, I will use this for health purposes too. 

*Creates a new group called Additional MyHealtheVet Information - adds all notification cards*
**Regarding the list of VA facilities - why did you put that in profile vs. health care?**
**Now that I think about it, it would go better under health care. And wallet card should probably go under profile.**

**Why do you think wallet card goes under profile?**
**Yes, it is more like an insurance card. Because it has blood type/personal information on it. **

**Any other comments?**
**This just lets me know that I need to go in and update things. I use MHV usually to follow up with my doctors or to download my records. I now know about the health card information, and that I need to go back and make sure everything is up to date. **

**Do you know any other Veterans, caregivers, or service members who might be willing to participate in a future user research session?**
Yes
**I like this tool much better than using the tool that I used when I was in the military. It is better to do things online than to call and be on hold for long periods of time. **
