# My HealtheVet Personal Information Discovery Research - P5 notes
3/31/22
**Moderator:** Can you tell me how you use the personal info section of MHV?** 

**Participant:**  “I review it to make sure it’s kosher and up to date, but normally I go there to request medications. Not sure if that’s part of personal info. Personal info to me means name, address, phone number, DOB, etc. Does that include medication?” **

**Moderator:** Not for our convo today. Let’s go ahead and look at the personal info section today.**

**Moderator:** If you have to update your personal info, how do you do that?** 

**Participant:**  “I fill it in on MHV. That’s pretty much it.” 
**Moderator:** Let’s look at MHV.** *Asks participant to log in and share screen. Participant has some trouble logging in and moderator offers to help if they share their screen.*
*User has some trouble getting the scren set up how he wants. moderator asks him to go to MHV. He says he usually goes to it on his phone.*
*User is logging in*
 
**Participant:**  “I was just on MHV 2 days ago to request medication. That’s really nice instead of calling in.”
*moderator directs user to personal information dropdown.*
** 
**Moderator:** Before we click anything, are you familiar with any of these links?**  
**Participant:**  “Personal info, My profile, my accounts, that’s about it. I don’t know about my data or a health information card. That would be nice to get to show I have my booster shot.”
** 
**Moderator:** Please click on My Profile. Tell me how you use this page.**  
**Participant:**  “I scroll down and I look - what the hell is suffix? I don’t have one. My alias…I’m widowed, a VA patient, I’m not a caregiver, how would you like to be addressed…oh okay, I get notifications - emails.” ** 
**Moderator:** Are those emails you currently receive?**  
**Participant:**  “Yes. I do.” *Looking at VA locations list* “I only go to Coatsville anymore.” *User scrolls down the rest of the page.*  
**Participant:**  “I’m gonna hit Save now.” ** 
**Moderator:** And why would you do that?**  
**Participant:**  “I just think it’s the right thing to do now that I’m at the bottom.”
** 
**Moderator:** Why are the boxes greyed out?**  
**Participant:**  “It’s a security number. But my name, I don’t know why. The other information, security number. That’s nice. DOB, I don’t know why. That’s about it that’s greyed out. I don’t know.” ** 
**Moderator:** Any guesses?**  
**Participant:**  “No! No idea.”
** 
**Moderator:** What fields on this page are important for you to change and update?**  
**Participant:**  “The address definitely in case I move, the refill notifications - I want to keep them on. And my phone method of contact, I have a home phone…I guess I should get rid of the fax number, I don’t have one. My work number is the same as my regular phone, yeah those are the ones.”
** 
**Moderator:** Any fields you’re surprised to see here?** *User scrolls up.*  
**Participant:**  “No! Everything looks good.” ** 
**Moderator:** Any questions?**  
**Participant:**  “No.”
** 
**Moderator:** Let’s go to the current relationship with the VA field. How did those boxes get checked?**  
**Participant:**  “I don’t know. I clicked them I guess?” ** 
**Moderator:** You made those settings yourself?**  
**Participant:**  “Yes, right.”
** 
**Moderator:** How does it help to be able to update this?**  
**Participant:**  “If anything should change I could always go back here. If I become an advocate I could put that down there, or caregiver, yeah I could do that.”
** 
**Moderator:** How do you think the VA uses this info?**  
**Participant:**  “To help deal with the patients that go to the hospital who order their prescription and are still alive.”
** 
**Moderator:** Please scroll down to My VA Treating Facilities. What is this for?**  
**Participant:**  “That’s where I visit my regular doctor, main provider, Dr. Fetzer in Philly, as well as a rheumatologist. I was just there to have my teeth cleaned, and got a new pair of glasses. I’m returning in April for hearing aids. I lost them. I’m having a test done and another pair of hearing aids provided. I only go to the Philadelphia one, none of the other ones. ** 
**Moderator:** Why are they there?** 
**Participant:**  “I was in Coatsville years ago, they have a clinic for veterans with PTSD, it might be the only one in the country. I went there for the clinic, and the psychologist taught me how to meditate. We did it every day. I continued with meditation I’ve been doing it now ever since. I meditate with a buddhist monk in Philadelphia.” *moderator and user have some connection over meditation and user shares his experience with a Vietnam veteran monk.*
** 
**Moderator:** What does it do for you to be able to update these things in your profile?**  
**Participant:**  “Feels like I’m more complete and getting it together.” ** 
**Moderator:** What does it change on the VA side if you change these boxes?**  
**Participant:**  “Keeps them abreast of what’s going on with my lifestyle. That’s it.”
** 
**Moderator:** According to my notes you’ve been to 2 different facilities recently.**  
**Participant:**  “I really don’t know where the other 2 facilities come in. I might have requested some medication from somewhere else, or the hearing aids or blood pressure device, I really don’t know.”
** 
**Moderator:** Do you use online scheduling or secure messaging at all?**  
**Participant:**  “No, I usually do it by mail or phone.”
** 
**Moderator:** If you moved, where would you update your address for prescriptions?**  
**Participant:**  “I would go here, I’m sure there’s something that says health…and I would contact them and let them know I have a new address and please look at my profile and mail all new medication there.” ** 
**Moderator:** Are you looking for the address field?**  
**Participant:**  “Oh yeah…” *Scrolls up and down.*  
**Participant:**  “Wow, the address isn’t in my profile? Wow. That is unusual. We gotta get that in there.” ** 
**Moderator:** Would you expect an address in your profile?**  
**Participant:**  “Yeah I would think I would have one! They don’t have the street address, that’s weird.”
** 
**Moderator:** How would you update that if you moved?**  
**Participant:**  “I would call them.” *Looks at other tabs.*  
**Participant:**  “I’m gonna go to My Account.”
 
**Participant:**  “I have a Premium account. That doesn’t have my address either. Aw, man. Wow. That’s weird. Maybe in case of emergency. Let’s see if my son is mentioned here and there’s an address for him. His contact number but no address. Wow. Let’s go back to My Profile. I don’t know what to say. Hey, what about that print health information wallet card, let’s see that. Hey! They got it! Yay! I have 2 different cards here and it looks like they’re both the same. You can edit it, print…eh well I don’t have a printer. It’d be nice if someone could mail this to me.” ** 
**Moderator:** Have you ever used this before?**  
**Participant:**  “No, I didn’t know this existed. I wonder if I can put PTSD on here. Medical conditions, I could put hearing loss from Vietnam, rheumatoid arthritis, I have kidney something or other, enlarged prostate, I could put a bunch of conditions on here in the Edit.” *Clicks Edit.*  
**Participant:**  “Okay the address is correct so I can just go back.”
** 
**Moderator:** I wanted to show you this note at the top of this page. All this info is strictly limited to this card. It doesn’t update your prescriptions. So would this be useful to you?**  
**Participant:**  “Oh yeah, I’d carry it with me. I could fill in primary provider. It’s much easier calling the orange team and they put you through to a nurse or an assistant.”
 
**Participant:**  “I’m gonna hit the back button.” ** 
**Moderator:** Let’s look at My Links. In case of emergency, it looks like you have used that before and put your son in.**  
**Participant:**  “Yes, I put my son in.” ** 
**Moderator:** Who can see that?**  
**Participant:**  “I would imagine anyone at the VA hospital. Doctors, nurses.”

**Moderator:** Click on My Links. Curious if you’ve seen this before. 

No. 


**Moderator:** What do you think it’s for? 


**Participant:** Well, I guess you can have a health journal. You can point out different things, your appts, how you’re feeling on a given day, but I haven’t ever used this. 


**Moderator:** Okay, click on Add New and let me know your thoughts of what you see here. 


**Participant:** I have no idea. Display name, I have no idea. I don’t know what that would be. Let me ask you about this link thing. A website. what would that be for? This allows you to save links to any website. Ohh okay, yeah. Oh wow, a dating site for some girls over 57? Laughs. 


**Moderator:** It;s like bookmarking. Is that something you would use. 


**Participant:** I really don’t know. Probably not. but it’s good to know it’s there.

**Moderator:** I’m gonna send you a link in the chat. moderator directs the user to the chat. User clicks link.

*moderator explains what the card sort is for and how to do it. moderator walks the user through what she wants him to do.*


**Moderator:** You can put the cards on the left where it makes sense to you and please think out loud. 
Okay. User drags cards quickly without speaking through anything. 


**Moderator:** Can you tell me your thought process around the cards for notification settings? You placed them all in your healthcare column. I’m curious why. 


**Participant:** Umm, because that would be more for me than for the profile people at the VA. I have a FitBit, I keep track of myself through it. I want to have the phone number and names of the doctors, so that’s why I put information I would want to have handy, and the other stuff is what I want the VA hispital doctors to have.


**Moderator:** Okay that explains why you put precription shipping in there. 


**Moderator:** I’m curious, are you familiar with the form 1095B? 


**Participant:** Yes, I submitted that as part of my tax records. 


**Moderator:** If that was on a card where would you put it? 


**Participant:** My health care. My stuff. 
Please click Finish in the top right corner. 


**Moderator:** Is there anyhting you want to comment on? 


**Participant:** No the key thing is getting the address on the profile. thart’s crazy thart it’s not on there. And I wish the VA could send me a copy of that card and to have any covid shots on there. I know they’r talking about a second booster shot for people over 65, and that would be helpful ti have on the card.
