#  My HealtheVet Personal Information Discovery Research - P7 notes
3/31/2022

**Moderator: We're here to talk about MHV, specifically the personal information section**
*Moderator goes through instructions*
**Tell me how you use the personal info section of MHV**
I gues I just verify all my contact information is correct
*(navigates to Personal information section)* and that's the area...actually i'm trying to log in now

**So if you have to update personal info, how else would you udpate?**
Probably through ebenefits

**So you update it both places?**
Yep

**Now we'll look at MHV, once you're logged in can you share your screen?**
*Moderator helps with sharing screen*
**Looking at these options here, any ring a bell?**
Yes I think I've check all of them. I frequently go on and download my medical reports or my test results. Prescription refills online. 

**Any others?**
I thought I updated... yes I did, the in case of emergency

**Go ahead and click on profile and tell me about how you use this page**
I went into it when i first got MHV to make sure info was correct. Both my branches were listed, blood type, notifications, contact information was correct. Just moved up here recently so had to update work phone. And of course secruity questions in case I had trouble loggin in. Basic sutff for you profile.

**Why are some of those boxes greyed out?**
I dunno. I think it was maybe auto filled for me. It didn't give me the option of doing it when i registered.

**And what if you needed to change that?**
I don't know how to do that. I guess i'd have to call somebody. Contact the help desk

**Which fields are important to you?**
My martital status. Don't really care about occupation so much. Do like my nickname. *(missed a little here)*Branches. Bloodtype. Notifications. And definitely if you need to get ahold of me how to do that. And you gotta have some sort of secruity/reset questions.

**Who can see this information?**
Just me and whoever at the VA I guess

**If you can scroll down. You said you like having your nickname there and branches**
I like it when someone addresses you by your preferred name. Not that I mind...*(missed a little here)* but it's formal. 
And pretty proud of my service so like having branches there

**Is there any field you're surprised to see there?**
I guess for a health site not surprised to see blood type. Organ donor I guess that was surprising. Usually when you do this you get these options *scrolls to indicate notifications,* but I was kind of surprised this *indicates blood type* was here. I don't care that it's here. Guess it seemed a little out of place

**Anything else?**
No everything else seemed pretty normal

**Anything you have questions about?**
No seems pretty striaght forward

**How did those get selected (status/roll with VA)?**
To be honest with you I don't remember. I must have chosen veteran
missed

**How does this help you to be able to update?**
As far as my status goes that's not going to change, so as long as I know that's permanent to me. If my wife.... (*missed some of this about if his wife were to have an account)*

**How do you think that VA uses this information?**
Sometimes i wonder if they do *laughs*
Don't get me wrong. Overall I've gotten excellent care from the VA, really don't have any complains.... I think theres a lot of info the VA has on you - 40 to 60 pages at a time. Gotta wonder if becaues there's so much... *(missed some of this here about use of info when they have so much)*
missed

**Let's scroll down to facilities**
**What is that for?**
I guess that tells them what market (?) you're in

**How did that get checked?**
Looks like I checked it but I don't remember if there were any other options there. Don't remember... (*missed a little here)*

**What happens if you uncheck that?**
We'll find out. *unchecks box* Nothing. 

**What do you expect would hpepen?**
Would imagine it would pop up give me more choices. Would assume my market (?) would get me more... 
missed
now my primary care is the.... (*missed some of this where he talked about the relationships between the two facilities)*

**Are they part of the same system?**
Yes. .... all my prescriptions refills are processed out of Columbia

**One more question. You mentioned prescriptions. If you moved, where did you go to update your address for presecriptions shipments?**
I think I just updated it here under personal information *goes to personal info*. Maybe not i'm not seeing it... ....when i moved I called the VA and someone on the phone helped me.
I know it was updated ebenefits....
missed

**While you're here, click on ICE and go back there...**
**How is this useful to you?**
If I became incapacitated while at the VA, good for them to know who to call

**So it's your understanding they can see this?**
I would hope so it's on their website

**Ok and then let's go to the health info card**
**How do you use this page?**
Well here's an issue, see that's my old address in Columbia
I've never used this because I have my VA health id card

**Is that the card you use at check in?**
yes

**Kind of like an insurance card?**
yes
I don't know what this thing is for *indicates health id card*

**Want to share a few things so you have this info**
**The previous screen actually populates this card and that's the only palce where ICE is used. So if you do become icapacitated - of course really hope you don't - they will not have that information that you have here in MHV. They probaby have this on record somewhere else, but these systems are not connected.**
Oh alright. I'll go in later and update. It's just the address that's wrong

**Moderator further explains how the card works**
**Let's go to one more section in here called my links. How do you use this page?**
Never used it

**How might it be useful to you?**
Personal health journal. 
**Ya go ahead and click on that **
Like if i have a website maybe that can track a health condition. Like a favorite I imagine.

**Is that something that'd be useful**
would probably just bookmark in my browser. Don't know that I'd save it here.

**Ok that’s everything I wanted to review in MHV. Now we’ll do a sorting activity.****Moderator shares the link for card sorting***opens card sorting tool*

**Moderator explains the card sorting task**
*Starts activity*
Blood type should go in health care
Next of kid in profile
Notification setting for MHV newsletter in profile
Scheduled payments from VA, health care

**I see you’re hesitating, why?**
Because it’s a payment that’s related to healthcare received
This one is a payment the VA would send me *(unsure which he was referring to)*
Oh nevermind *moves back to profile*
Your providers and doctors…health care for sure
Non-VA health insurance information *moved to profile*

**Moderator: Why?**
Because that’s more administrative
Birthday in profile
Notifications for presections, health care
Mailing address, profile
Power of attorney, health care
Emergency contacts and caregivers and email address, profile
Connect to tracking devide, don’t use that not important to me
List of apps, not important
Wallet card, I guess under profile
List of facilities - health care

**Moderator follow-up questions - noticed some notification settings in different categories**
Prescription shipping to me is part of my health care when I go in to request refills. Nice to go to same section for that.

**Interested to learn more about your thoughts behind emergency contact and caregivers in profile but power of attorney in health care**
Because power of attorney can make actually health care decisions for me which could be different than emergency contact or caregiver

**Great, are you familiar with form 1095b?**
Is that the one at end of year for compensation?

**No it’s to verify you received healthcare from VA - where would you put that on the board?**
Probably profile - guess I look at it as an administrative thing. Would kind of go with the printable wallet health information card
More of an administrative function, ya

**Ok great - please click finish in top right corner of screen.**
*finishes activity*
**Well that was everything. Anything you’d like to comment on?**
Don’t think so.
**Any questions for me?**
Nope
