# My HealtheVet Personal Information Discovery Research - P8 notes
4/1/2022

**Moderator confirms that participant is comfortable recording**
**Moderator: Now I’d like to take a look at My HealtheVet with you and get your thoughts on the personal information section of the site.** Participant: I access notes from visits with the doctor, speak to the doctor- you know like secure messaging. Basically for the personal info, I go in and get the information the doctor has written in the notes, diagnoses . . .
**Moderator: If you have to update personal information, how would you do that?** Participant: I would sign into my account, personal info, profile or whatever, but I've never had to do that.
**Moderator asks participant to log into My HealtheVet**
Participant says she hasn't used this computer before
Participant camera and mike turn off, Moderator checks in with the participant but she doesn't respond
Moderator checks in with participant again
Participant drops off the call, Moderator stops recording and checks with Perigean
Participant is back!
Moderator has her share her screen, talks her through the steps of sharing
Participant does not see the screen share option, Moderator logs into staging account for her
Partcipant confirms she can see Moderator's screen
**Moderator asks if anything looks familar?** Participant: Yes
**Moderator ask for more detail**
Participant: It was awhile back, used it to change my password, needed new Heath Information Card, changed emergency contact, updated profile
**Moderator takes her into the profile asks "Tell me about how you use this page"**
Participant says the she added her name, confirmed her SSN, gender, DOB, divorced, disabled. **Moderator: Do you add these into your own profile?** Participant: Yes, *continues to review fields,* never used how she wants to be addressed field, she was in the army
*Participant sees contact preferences* "Most of the time I use refill perscriptions, I use that monthly"
**Moderator: What about these other reminders?** Participant: I use appointment reminders because I have short term memory loss.
**Moderator asks about VA Treating Facilities.** Participant: It shows me that in my perscription history.
**Moderator asks her to look at her MHV profile to see how many VA facilities she has in her history**
Participant confirms that she has been to multiple facilities
*Participant is looking at her MHV page,* sees 9! options, all boxes are unchecked
**Moderator: How does it help, what does it do to check those boxes?**
Participant: Probably it helps because Durham is where my medical records are located so I might want to check that
**Moderator asks what would happen if she checked a box and saved.** Participant says it would let people know that that's where her medical records are stored and that's the main place she gets treatment
**Moderator asks if she has trouble with so many locations in the perscriptions.** Participant says no, they are organized by when they were last used 
**Moderator asks if she uses online scheduling.** Participant says yes and that locations don't cause trouble there either
**Moderator asks why boxes are greyed out.** Participant: That's pertinent informtion, I mean in case someone was able to get into my MHV they grey it out.
**Moderator asks which fields are most important.**Participant says blood type, organ donor status. **Moderator asks who sees those fields.**Participant says it is updated in her medical record. Participant also says address, email, phone number- "basically my contact information", my security questions would be important.
**Moderator asks what is your relation to the VA? Which boxes are checked for you?** Participant says she is a veteran; there's a check on VA patient too.
**Moderator: How do those boxes get checked?** Participant: I checked veteran, maybe whoever updated my file checked VA patient; I have been a patient, it’s very helpful. If I started using champVA *(not totally sure what she said here)* benefit sharing, or had a caregiver start taking care of me . . . **Moderator: Would that caregive have their own MHV account?** Participant expects that they’d go into her account and order her prescriptions
**Moderator: How would the VA would use this info?** Participant: To know if I’m able to use MHV myself or if a caregiver is doing this for me.
**Moderator: How would you update your address?** Participant: I’d probably go to pharmacy, where it says refill perscriptions and see if there’s some way I can update my address, or I’d come back to my profile. **Moderator: Do you see a way to update it in your profile?** Participant:Well I guess it isn’t here, it’d be easier if it was in my profile
*Moderator directs her to the ICE link.* **I’m curious to know how you’ve used this page.** Participant: “I’d use this for my contact information, like if I go into the hospital and I needed someone to contact my emergency person I’d use this method.” She doesn’t have someone entered right now, but it does show up when she goes to the VA and signs into the clinic. **Moderator clarifies that this is a different emergency contact.**
*Moderator directs her to Health Information Card link.* **Moderator: Is this the HIC card that you mentioned earlier?**Participant: This is the same card but I haven’t used it in awhile; it has an old address. I thought this was connected to my card that I use when I go to the VA. **Moderator asks if she’d print it out.** Participant says she would use it; it has good information on it.
**Moderator asks if she uses the MyLinks page if at all.** Participant: “I don’t have any links. I guess I’d use this if I had something that occured in a clinic or a visit, and I wanted to keep a note of the information . . . I don’t know.
*Moderator directs her to add button. Participant gets error message, “says Safari can’t open this page”.*
*Moderator and participant work through technical challenges.*
*Participant takes control of Moderator’s screen. Moderator explains the card sorting activity.*
Participant: Power of attorney goes under my profile, next of kin under profile, list of of where she receives healthcare would go under my healthcare, also list of providers and doctors, email address under my profile
*More technical difficulties. Moderator starts moving cards for her.*
Participant: Blood type would go under healthcare.
Participant: Emergency contact goes in my profile. Non VA health insurance information under healthcare.
Participant: She says she doesn’t have caregivers at this time but it would go under heathcare.
*I missed a few here.* Participant says that notification settings are not important to her as well as apps. Heath tracking device belongs in my healthcare.
Participant: Notification settings for per?? go in my heathcare, notification settings for payment go under profile, notification settings for newsletter go in my heathcare, printable wallet card goes under profile
**Moderator asks why power of attorney and next of kin go under profile.** Participant explains that it is because she thinks it contains personal information and it gives VA better access.
Participant expains why she put the wallet information card in my profile. There is lots of pertinent information in my profile and there is a lot of information in my healthcare so it is easier to access in my profile.
**Moderator asks her about notification settings (4 notification cards she put in 3 different categories).** She says that the scheduled payment notification has pertinent information and is easier to find in profile. The notification for perscription updates goes in healthcare because “you go to a different category when refilling perscriptions and I think it falls under healthcare”. The general updates she had placed in Not Important. She thinks it through and decides it is important. She has Moderator move it to my profile section.
**Moderator asks about 1095B tax form.** Participant says she would put it in my profile section
Participant says she’s not very tech saavy, Moderator reassures her.
Participant says she’s grateful for the opportunity, Moderator thanks her.
