
# **Participant #, Aug 20, 12:00 eastern
Participant is using an Android phone 

## **Instructions**

We will be able to get ok transcripts from EnjoyHQ, so focus notes on observations, clearly defined interpretations, and impactful utterances.


* Focus on observations of user behavior.
    * Example of observation: “Participants clicks on My VA tab, hovers over X header, then back buttons to landing page.”
    * Example of observation: “Participant says ‘this is annoying, that makes no sense.’ when looking to login to BTSSS.”
* Be clear where notetaker is interpreting or making inferences of what participant is thinking/feeling
    * Example of interpretation: “Based on facial expressions, participant seems to be confused. Going back and forth between X and Y pages seems like they are looking for something.”
    * Example of interpretation: “Participant easily found link no frustration.”


**Task order used: **





## **Option A: Veteran does not have an email on file**

[Flow A](https://www.figma.com/proto/CAChU51fWYMZsgDR5RXeSc/MHV-Landing-Page?page-id=5465%3A1304&node-id=5861-21571&viewport=26%2C-947%2C0.42&t=spgbQ62qjaRH4JSQ-1&scaling=min-zoom&content-scaling=fixed&starting-point-node-id=5861%3A21571&show-proto-sidebar=1)

### **Start on: “Add a contact email address” page**


### ***First impressions***


1. What stands out to them?
2. Do they know why asked?
3. What do they think they can do?
4. What questions do they have?
5. What info would they add and why?
6. Do they understand the consequences of not adding info?
7. Do they understand/accurately id how to enter and advance?

Similar type of action, but this one does not give me the email address that's on file, so it's asking me to type one in. 

I'd assume that they don't have an email on file, or was incorrect, like getting auto-rejects back to the system

This one only has 2 options instead of the 3, can only hit save or skip for now

I liked how the previous one gave me the email, so I'd know the email on file

This one is requiring me to do a little extra work since I have to type the email instead of just hitting confirm

Assumes wouldn't be able to move forward if hit save without filling in the field

"I think the only way to eventually get rid of it is to update the email." "It's going to keep giving you that repetitively"

"You have to take care of it as some point"

10.  "Skip this for now" first impressions


[moderator note: instruct to click "Skip this for now"]


### **On MyVA page with yellow "Confirm contact" alert"**

1. What stands out to them?
2. What actions do they identify?
3. What do they think  would happen if they clicked the rectangle? Do they recognize it? Do they know how to dismiss it?

Notices "pop-up warning" - understanding is, hey, we need this, it's important

Importance indicated by bright yellow box, bold type

I could go back and confirm it, notices "quite a bit more links on this page, quite a lot"

Thinks that if he clicks on the yellow box, it's going to take me back to that original screen; thinks he can't close it because it's an arrow instead of an "X"

   
### **On: “Confirm your email” page**  (CARA note: update with new page)

1. What stands out to them?
2. What actions do they identify?
3. What do they think would happen if they clicked the alert? Do they recognize it? Do they know how to dismiss it?

Would hit "add" then hit "save"

### **On: “We've updated your contact email address” page**

1. What stands out to them?
2. What actions do they identify?
3. Next steps?

Notices now that he could edit it or remove it

That's everything that needs to be done with the email, so I'd navigate to whatever I needed to do. Would probably go to menu here to look for category I needed like pharmacy or medications


### **Option Reflection Questions**


1. Overall, how easy or difficult would you say this process was? Probe on why
2. What would you change about this process? Why?
3. What about this process would you keep?
4. Is there anything else you would like to share about this process that we have not covered?

Moderator note: Switch to other Option (so if completed Option A, move to Option B and vice-versa)

Would say this one is a tad bit more difficult bc the other one had one of file, super easy because you can just hit confirm and then you're done, takes a split second

If there was one on file, I'd want to know so I can just click that one and finish it faster (but recognize splitting hairs with time, just a few seconds of difference)

The only thing - again this is splitting hairs - the color of the box with the triangle is different from the muted yellow (saying the two alerts are different yellows) and he thinks they should be the same. Why: "canary yellow pops a lot better" "stands out ten times more"

Would also move the email box (that it's asking you to confirm or update) to the top so I don't have to scroll all the way down to go to what they're asking me to do

## **Option B: Veteran has an email on file**

[Flow B](https://www.figma.com/proto/CAChU51fWYMZsgDR5RXeSc/MHV-Landing-Page?page-id=5465%3A1304&node-id=5861-19456&viewport=26%2C-947%2C0.42&t=spgbQ62qjaRH4JSQ-1&scaling=min-zoom&content-scaling=fixed&starting-point-node-id=5861%3A19456&show-proto-sidebar=1)

### **Start on: “Action needed: confirm or update contact email” page**


### ***First impressions***

1. What stands out to them?
2. Do they know why being asked?
3. Do they notice the Confirm and Update options?
5. What questions do they have?
6. What info would they add?
7. What do they think "Skip for now" means?
8. Do they identify how to confirm?

Being asked to confirm or update contact info to make sure it is correct in the system because probably randomly people update their emails and forget to update other things. Get email reminders for appts, for prescriptions getting shipped out, or messages from the doctor

Sees choices confirm or update, or could actually skip it for now and do it later. If didn't do this now - if email is incorrect, that could have implications. Like not getting notifications or having trouble logging in in the future. Assume I'd get a reminder the next time I log in

"Contact email address" my main email, the one I prefer to have contact through. Some people have work or personal email. For me, that would be the one I use the most as my personal

Thinking that update would take him to a new page where he could make a change; if correct he'd just hit confirm. 

He hits confirm.

_[moderator note: show me/prompt to click confirm]_

*On Confirmation page:*

1. What stands out to them?
2. Next steps?

Recognizes that what's changing content stays the same; next would want to click continue to VA.gov, which he believes will take him to his main home page

### **Option Reflection Questions**

1. Overall, how easy or difficult would you say this process was? Probe on why
2. What would you change about this process? Why?
3. What about this process would you keep?
4. Is there anything else you would like to share about this process that we have not covered?

Super simple, very straightforward

Could see self wanting to skip for now if he's in a hurry and doesn't have time right now to put his new email in there

## **Comparative Reflection questions**

1. What would you change about these processes?
2. What about this process would you keep?
3. Thinking about these processes, is there anything else you would like to share that we have not covered?

## **Comms recall questions**
1. Do you recall getting any communication about upcoming changes to how the VA would be communicating with you?

link to July 7 email 

2. Do you recall this email?
3. Anything else to share?
