
# **Participant #, Date and time**


## **Instructions**

We will be able to get ok transcripts from EnjoyHQ, so focus notes on observations, clearly defined interpretations, and impactful utterances.


* Focus on observations of user behavior.
    * Example of observation: “Participants clicks on My VA tab, hovers over X header, then back buttons to landing page.”
    * Example of observation: “Participant says ‘this is annoying, that makes no sense.’ when looking to login to BTSSS.”
* Be clear where notetaker is interpreting or making inferences of what participant is thinking/feeling
    * Example of interpretation: “Based on facial expressions, participant seems to be confused. Going back and forth between X and Y pages seems like they are looking for something.”
    * Example of interpretation: “Participant easily found link no frustration.”


**Task order used: **





## **Option A: Veteran does not have an email on file**

[Flow A](https://www.figma.com/proto/CAChU51fWYMZsgDR5RXeSc/MHV-Landing-Page?page-id=5465%3A1304&node-id=5861-21571&viewport=26%2C-947%2C0.42&t=spgbQ62qjaRH4JSQ-1&scaling=min-zoom&content-scaling=fixed&starting-point-node-id=5861%3A21571&show-proto-sidebar=1)

### **Start on: “Add a contact email address” page**


### ***First impressions***


1. What stands out to them?
2. Do they know why asked?
3. What do they think they can do?
4. What questions do they have?
5. What info would they add and why?
6. Do they understand the consequences of not adding info?
7. Do they understand/accurately id how to enter and advance?
10.  "Skip this for now" first impressions



[moderator note: instruct to click "Skip this for now"]


### **On MyVA page with yellow "Confirm contact" alert"**

1. What stands out to them?
2. What actions do they identify?
3. What do they think  would happen if they clicked the rectangle? Do they recognize it? Do they know how to dismiss it?

   
### **On: “Confirm your email” page**  (CARA note: update with new page)

1. What stands out to them?
2. What actions do they identify?
3. What do they think would happen if they clicked the alert? Do they recognize it? Do they know how to dismiss it?   

### **On: “We've updated your contact email address” page**

1. What stands out to them?
2. What actions do they identify?
3. Next steps?

### **Option Reflection Questions**


1. Overall, how easy or difficult would you say this process was? Probe on why
2. What would you change about this process? Why?
3. What about this process would you keep?
4. Is there anything else you would like to share about this process that we have not covered?

Moderator note: Switch to other Option (so if completed Option A, move to Option B and vice-versa)


## **Option B: Veteran has an email on file**

[Flow B](https://www.figma.com/proto/CAChU51fWYMZsgDR5RXeSc/MHV-Landing-Page?page-id=5465%3A1304&node-id=5861-19456&viewport=26%2C-947%2C0.42&t=spgbQ62qjaRH4JSQ-1&scaling=min-zoom&content-scaling=fixed&starting-point-node-id=5861%3A19456&show-proto-sidebar=1)

### **Start on: “Action needed: confirm or update contact email” page**


### ***First impressions***

1. What stands out to them?
2. Do they know why being asked?
3. Do they notice the Confirm and Update options?
5. What questions do they have?
6. What info would they add?
7. What do they think "Skip for now" means?
8. Do they identify how to confirm?

_[moderator note: show me/prompt to click confirm]_

*On Confirmation page:*

1. What stands out to them?
2. Next steps?

### **Option Reflection Questions**

1. Overall, how easy or difficult would you say this process was? Probe on why
2. What would you change about this process? Why?
3. What about this process would you keep?
4. Is there anything else you would like to share about this process that we have not covered?


## **Comparative Reflection questions**

1. What would you change about these processes?
2. What about this process would you keep?
3. Thinking about these processes, is there anything else you would like to share that we have not covered?

## **Comms recall questions**
1. Do you recall getting any communication about upcoming changes to how the VA would be communicating with you?

link to July 7 email 

2. Do you recall this email?
3. Anything else to share?
