# **Participant 3, August 20, 2:30-3pm ET**

## **Instructions**

**Task order used:  A, B**

## User information
* Female
* Android cell phone (mobile user)

## **Option A: Veteran does not have an email on file**

[Flow A](https://www.figma.com/proto/CAChU51fWYMZsgDR5RXeSc/MHV-Landing-Page?page-id=5465%3A1304&node-id=5861-21571&viewport=26%2C-947%2C0.42&t=spgbQ62qjaRH4JSQ-1&scaling=min-zoom&content-scaling=fixed&starting-point-node-id=5861%3A21571&show-proto-sidebar=1)

### **Start on: “Add a contact email address” page**

### ***First impressions***


1. What stands out to them? **N/A**
2. Q: Do they know why asked? **P3: They need my email so they can send information to me about my VA healthcare and benefits.**
3. What do they think they can do? **P3: I can access my information if I go to menu, for where I'm trying to go. And up under my name "Jennifer" would have my information.** 
4. What questions do they have?
5. What info would they add and why? **P3: I'd type my email into that box that says "contact email address"** 
6. Do they understand the consequences of not adding info? **P3: If they already have an email on file, they'd use that one - or I think you'd be able to bypass it if you don't have one. But I am not actually sure b/c I've never had that problem. I think you can still do whatever you came here to do - you can find it up under the menu / under your name. I think this will probably always pop up until I add an email address.** 
7. Do they understand/accurately id how to enter and advance? **Yes**

**Facilitator:** How do you think you'd get past this information? 
**P3:** "I'd click the 3 lines beside the menu. Or if it's not there it would be the arrow by your name" 
**Observer note**: [user misses the "skip this for now" URL - gravitates toward mobile mega menu]

**Facilitator:** what do you think would happen if you select the "skip this for now and go to VA.gov" link text? 
**P3:** Oh I didn't see that. It would just take you off of this screen and bring you to the VA.gov screen." 

### **On MyVA page with yellow "Confirm contact" alert"**

**Facilitator:** can you tell me what you're looking at now? 
**P3:** my ratings, my information at the top, with the information that your claim was received. It tells me when my next appt is. 
**Facilitator:** what do you think you can do from here? 
**P3:** What did you say I was supposed to do? Click on my medication records? So I can see how many times per day to take my medicine? 
**Facilitator:** We'll get there, yes. For now, can you scroll back up? Look at that yellow rectangle for me."
**P3:** uh huh
**Facilitator:** what can you tell me about that yellow rectangle? 
**P3:** It says confirm your contact email address by Oct. 15. I think this means if you don't do that by October 15, you won't be able to get VA notifications. 
**Facilitator:** What do you think would happen if you don't add this information? 
**P3:** You wouldn't be able to log onto here.  
**Facilitator:** do you think you can get rid of the yellow rectangle? 
**P3:** you could hit that arrow and find out. 
**Facilitator:** Go ahead and select that. 
**P3:** [Selects the Add email button]
   
### **On: “Confirm your email” page**  

**Facilitator:** Can you tell me what you are seeing now? 
**P3:** [reads the content in the warning alert]. 
**Facilitator:** What do you think you could do from here? 
**P3:** You can add your email address or you can view ... well it says none - you don't have one. So you'd need to add one at least until October the 15th.  
**Facilitator:** what if you don't want to do this right now? Do you think you could get around it? 
**P3:** You could click the "x" in that alert. 
**Facilitator:**  what do you think would happen if you did that? 
**P3:** It would take that box away. 
**Facilitator:** Is there any information you'd want that you don't see here? 
**P3:** No, but I guess I would want to ask the question - not everybody uses email addresses. So what happens in that case? 
**Observer note:** *[Around this point in the study, P3 pivots from thinking they can use the mega menu to go around this requirement until October 15th, to concern that without a valid email address, they (or anyone w/o a valid email address) won't be able to access their medical records at all]*
**Facilitator**: do you think you could add it if you had one? 
**P3:** [Selects "add email" button]. Enter email address into the box and hovers over "Save"  


### **On: “We've updated your contact email address” page**

**Facilitator:** Can you tell me what would happen now if you select "Save"? 
**P3:** It would update.
**Facilitator:** okay, go ahead and do that
**P3:** [clicks save]
**Facilitator:** what happened? 
**P3:** It saved it. 
**Facilitator:** how do you know that? 
**P3:** this thing here says "update saved." *[P3 is refering to the confirmation / success alert]*



### **Option Reflection Questions**

1. Overall, how easy or difficult would you say this process was? Probe on why
	* **P3:** Easy to use, but a lot of people don't utilize email addresses so what would they do? 
2. What would you change about this process? Why? 
 * **P3:** For my case, I am content with this. It's okay with me. It's fairly simple. But I am concerned users would lose access to getting notes from their doctors past October 15th.
 * **Facilitator:** what do you think would happen if they didn't have an email?
 * **P3:** they wouldn't get any notifications
 * **Facilitator:** What do you think notifications means? 
 * **P3:** They won't be able to fill prescriptions or get their notes, or anything they were doing online? 
3. What about this process would you keep?
* **P3:** umm...I would keep all parts of this except for the verify your email address. As long as they cant text you, that should be enough. I know that signing in is complicated, but as long as Veterans know they can't lock out. If they can send you a text to verify the number you have on file, that should be good enough. 
* **Facilitator:** are you saying you are worried users will be locked out if they don't add an email address? 
* **P3:** No, I'm not saying they'll be locked out. But for notes from their doctor that are notifications, they won't be able to see notifications. 
* **Facilitator:** when you say see notifications, what does that mean to you? 
* **P3:** like their notes, lab work, medications, anything of that nature. I feel like they won't be able to get past the home screen. 
* **Facilitator:** the page you're on now - [edit profile] do you think you'd be able to get to this screen? 
* **P3:** Yes
* **Facilitator**: If someone didn't update their email, but came back in 2 weeks after the October 15th date, do you think they'd be able to access their medical records?
* **P3:** then the screen they're on now would be as far as the ycould go. 
* **Facilitator:** So someone who didn't update their email address wouldn't be able to see their records? 
* **P3:** I don't think so. I could be wrong, but I don't think so. 
* **Facilitator:** is there anything we said that made you think that? 
* **P3:** Not on this page but that rectangle box. About the October the 15th data stuff...that brought me to this page because I was trying to update the information. 
* **Facilitator:** okay, so when you looked at the yellow rectangle box. You think it means
* **P3:** if they don't update their email, they can't go further as of October 15th. 
* **Facilitator:** okay, got it. Thank you so much. 


## **Option B: Veteran has an email on file**
**Didn't get to Option B**
