# **Participant 5, 8/20/2025 and 4:30 EST**


## **Instructions**

We will be able to get ok transcripts from EnjoyHQ, so focus notes on observations, clearly defined interpretations, and impactful utterances.


* Focus on observations of user behavior.
    * Example of observation: “Participants clicks on My VA tab, hovers over X header, then back buttons to landing page.”
    * Example of observation: “Participant says ‘this is annoying, that makes no sense.’ when looking to login to BTSSS.”
* Be clear where notetaker is interpreting or making inferences of what participant is thinking/feeling
    * Example of interpretation: “Based on facial expressions, participant seems to be confused. Going back and forth between X and Y pages seems like they are looking for something.”
    * Example of interpretation: “Participant easily found link no frustration.”


**Task order used: Order: B, A**

## **Option A: Veteran does not have an email on file**

[Flow A](https://www.figma.com/proto/CAChU51fWYMZsgDR5RXeSc/MHV-Landing-Page?page-id=5465%3A1304&node-id=5861-21571&viewport=26%2C-947%2C0.42&t=spgbQ62qjaRH4JSQ-1&scaling=min-zoom&content-scaling=fixed&starting-point-node-id=5861%3A21571&show-proto-sidebar=1)

### **Start on: “Add a contact email address” page**

- Clicked right through the sign-in process 

### ***First impressions***

1. What stands out to them?

- Notes, “Add an email contact” 

2. Do they know why asked?
- “You have to put it in there” because you have to continue to VA.gov (move forward on the web) 
- Correspondence with the VA 

3. What do they think they can do?
4. What questions do they have?
5. What info would they add and why?

6. Do they understand the consequences of not adding info?

- You would stop getting the correspondence from the VA 

7. Do they understand/accurately id how to enter and advance?


8.  "Skip this for now" first impressions


- If skipped, it would ask you again 

[moderator note: instruct to click "Skip this for now"]


### **On MyVA page with yellow "Confirm contact" alert"**

1. What stands out to them?

- Reads the page aloud (scrolls up and down) 

2. What actions do they identify?

- Thinks everything is clickable
 
3. What do they think  would happen if they clicked the rectangle? Do they recognize it? Do they 
know how to dismiss it?

- ( interpretation) It does not seem like they notice the yellow box 

_M: Prompt participant to look at the yellow box_

- (interpretation) Understand that they can click on the yellow box 

- Participant clicked on the link before they can talk through it 
   
### **On: “Confirm your email” page**  (CARA note: update with new page)

1. What stands out to them?

2. What actions do they identify?

- Said, They would put email in the box that says email address 

3. What do they think would happen if they clicked the alert? Do they recognize it? Do they know how to dismiss it?   

### **On: “We've updated your contact email address” page**

1. What stands out to them?

-  Back to yellow - says the message will go away if hits X 
- Yellow box should be there if they didn’t add it 

2. What actions do they identify?

- - If they wanted to skip it they would just ignore it and go to Meds 
3. Next steps?

### **Option Reflection Questions**


1. Overall, how easy or difficult would you say this process was? Probe on why

-  Easy 
-  Just find the things on the page 

2. What would you change about this process? Why?

- Nothing really 

3. What about this process would you keep?

- Just the way it was 

4. Is there anything else you would like to share about this process that we have not covered?

- No 

Moderator note: Switch to other Option (so if completed Option A, move to Option B and vice-versa)

## **Option B: Veteran has an email on file**

[Flow B](https://www.figma.com/proto/CAChU51fWYMZsgDR5RXeSc/MHV-Landing-Page?page-id=5465%3A1304&node-id=5861-19456&viewport=26%2C-947%2C0.42&t=spgbQ62qjaRH4JSQ-1&scaling=min-zoom&content-scaling=fixed&starting-point-node-id=5861%3A19456&show-proto-sidebar=1)

### **Start on: “Action needed: confirm or update contact email” page**


### ***First impressions***

1. What stands out to them?
- 

2. Do they know why being asked?

- Make sure you have the right email on file or if something has changed 

- When asked, the  participant confirmed that the email address would be the Veterans 

  
3. Do they notice the Confirm and Update options?

- No, they skipped over at first ask 

4. What questions do they have?
  
5. What info would they add?

- No, they couldn’t think of anything 


6. What do they think "Skip for now" means?

- It would prob be there next time you log in 

Moderator Why? 

- Because they want you to update the email address 
- For any kind of correspondence with the VA 

7. Do they identify how to confirm?

- Yes, they would hit confirm 

_[moderator note: show me/prompt to click confirm]_

*On Confirmation page:*

1. What stands out to them?

- Reads the page 

_Moderator_ What would happen if you click cont. 

- Go to medications
 
2. Next steps?

### **Option Reflection Questions**

1. Overall, how easy or difficult would you say this process was? Probe on why
 
- Pretty easy 

2. What would you change about this process? Why?

- I wouldn’t change anything 

3. What about this process would you keep?

- The prompt was pretty simple 

4. Is there anything else you would like to share about this process that we have not covered?

- No

## **Comparative Reflection questions**

1. What would you change about these processes?
- No
2. What about this process would you keep?

- I would keep it - it was pretty much easy 

3. Thinking about these processes, is there anything else you would like to share that we have not covered?

- No 

## **Comms recall questions**
1. Do you recall getting any communication about upcoming changes to how the VA would be communicating with you?

link to July 7 email 

2. Do you recall this email?

- No 
3. Anything else to share?

- Nothing else to share 

