# **Participant 6, 8/21/2025 and 10AM EST**

## **Instructions**

We will be able to get ok transcripts from EnjoyHQ, so focus notes on observations, clearly defined interpretations, and impactful utterances.

* Focus on observations of user behavior.
    * Example of observation: “Participants clicks on My VA tab, hovers over X header, then back buttons to landing page.”
    * Example of observation: “Participant says ‘this is annoying, that makes no sense.’ when looking to login to BTSSS.”
* Be clear where notetaker is interpreting or making inferences of what participant is thinking/feeling
    * Example of interpretation: “Based on facial expressions, participants seem to be confused. Going back and forth between X and Y pages seems like they are looking for something.”
    * Example of interpretation: “Participant easily found link no frustration.”


**Task order used:A, B**

## **Option A: Veteran does not have an email on file**

[Flow A](https://www.figma.com/proto/CAChU51fWYMZsgDR5RXeSc/MHV-Landing-Page?page-id=5465%3A1304&node-id=5861-21571&viewport=26%2C-947%2C0.42&t=spgbQ62qjaRH4JSQ-1&scaling=min-zoom&content-scaling=fixed&starting-point-node-id=5861%3A21571&show-proto-sidebar=1)

### **Start on: “Add a contact email address” page**

- Participant would sign in (Not sure what they clicked to sign in) 
- Looking at the contact email address, they say “I need to add an email”

_M: What does that mean?_

- They are asking for an email so they can send notifications 

### ***First impressions***


1. What stands out to them?

- Looking at the contact email address, they say “I need to add an email”

_M: What does that mean?_

- They are asking for an email so they can send notifications 


2. Do they know why asked?

-  Says, “Not really sure,”

3. What do they think they can do?

- Participant is scrolling around the page
     - Says they can skip and go to VA.gov 
     - Or enter the email address 
- Participant sees note at the bottom of the screen 

4. What questions do they have? N/A

5. What info would they add and why? N/A 

6. Do they understand the consequences of not adding info?

-  Referencing the note at the bottom of the screen 
- “If skipped, they would not get notifications”

Moderator: What do notifications mean? 
“Anything from VA.gov” 
(Interpetation of paraphrase) Articulates all the things they get notifications for from VA.gov - Prescriptions, secure messaging, etc 

7. Do they understand/accurately how to enter and advance?

Yes, they would “enter email address in the contact email address box and click save” 

8.  "Skip this for now" first impressions

Thinks it would skip and take me to “Main page” 

[moderator note: instruct to click "Skip this for now"]


### **On MyVA page with yellow "Confirm contact" alert"**

1. What stands out to them?

- Landed on what they consider the main page 
- Scrolls down the page and skims the page/reading it aloud 

2. What actions do they identify?

- (Interpretation) Participant reads through the page (which is common during usability studies) 

3. What do they think would happen if they clicked the rectangle? Do they recognize it? Do they know how to dismiss it?

-  (Interpretation) Participant scrolled past the yellow rectangle without verbally acknowledging it or engaging with it 

Moderator directed the participant to look at the yellow rectangle - the moderator asked what this box is all about, and if the participant can get rid of it. 

I think the only have to get rid of the yellow box if they click on the on the “arrow” 
 Participant clicks on arrow 
The second yellow (warning) alert is confusing to  participant 
They note that the first part makes sense of the content makes sense but the second part does not  
Confusion around “They should have the same email” - “they are all connected” - and around the “previous MHV experience” 
   
### **On: “Confirm your email” page**  (CARA note: update with new page)

1. What stands out to them?
2. What actions do they identify?
3. What do they think would happen if they clicked the alert? Do they recognize it? Do they know how to dismiss it?   

### **On: “We've updated your contact email address” page**

1. What stands out to them?
2. What actions do they identify?
3. Next steps?


They would click on the 3 dots - 
### **Option Reflection Questions**


1. Overall, how easy or difficult would you say this process was? Probe on why

- “I would say it was easy. Generally, when I get on here it’s pretty simple.” It’s generally to the point 

2. What would you change about this process? Why?

The repetitiveness of it - When you have notifications like that (confirming the email). It was a little excessive to them personally. 

3. What about this process would you keep?

- Easy it is to navigate the pages 
- How simple it is 
- Not a lot of words
	-  (interpretation) participant noted the importance of not using a lot of words and the cognitive load that could cause, especially with Veterans with PTSD -  they can often get frustrated and angry, and then not want to complete the task

4. Is there anything else you would like to share about this process that we have not covered?

- I think that is pretty much it. 

Moderator note: Switch to other Option (so if completed Option A, move to Option B and vice-versa)


## **Option B: Veteran has an email on file**

[Flow B](https://www.figma.com/proto/CAChU51fWYMZsgDR5RXeSc/MHV-Landing-Page?page-id=5465%3A1304&node-id=5861-19456&viewport=26%2C-947%2C0.42&t=spgbQ62qjaRH4JSQ-1&scaling=min-zoom&content-scaling=fixed&starting-point-node-id=5861%3A19456&show-proto-sidebar=1)

### **Start on: “Action needed: confirm or update contact email” page**

- Knows how to sign in at the top - would use ID.me
- signs in 

### ***First impressions***

1. What stands out to them?
- Back to the contact email address - I need to confirm the email address 

2. Do they know why being asked?

- I need to hit the confirm button there and then read message in box  verbatim

3. Do they notice the Confirm and Update options?

- They don’t mention update options - just confirm button 
- They reference the “skip’ button at the bottom of page (interpretation:  perhaps from being primed from seeing the previous prototype

5. What questions do they have?
6. What info would they add?

7. What do they think "Skip for now" means?
- Yes, it would take them to that “main page” 

8. Do they identify how to confirm?
- Yes, they reference the “confirm” option 


_[moderator note: show me/prompt to click confirm]_

*On Confirmation page:*

1. What stands out to them?

- “I would be at a disadvantage if I didn't do it” (enter the email address 

2. Next steps?

To contour to VA.gov 
They think it would take them to main page on VA.gov 

### **Option Reflection Questions**

1. Overall, how easy or difficult would you say this process was? Probe on why

- “Very easy”
- It doesn’t take long to navigate through it. Anything I have to do (appointment, etc) able to get through them quickly  

2. What would you change about this process? Why?

- I can’t think of anything I would change 
- I prefer this method over having to make a phone call - I don’t have to be on hold - transferred. If I can just update here I prefer that 

3. What about this process would you keep?

- Ease of use. 
- Length 

4. Is there anything else you would like to share about this process that we have not covered?
- No

## **Comparative Reflection questions**

1. What would you change about these processes?

- I don’t think so 
2. What about this process would you keep?
3. Thinking about these processes, is there anything else you would like to share that we have not covered?


## **Comms recall questions** N/A
1. Do you recall getting any communication about upcoming changes to how the VA would be communicating with you?

link to July 7 email 

2. Do you recall this email?
3. Anything else to share?


