# **Participant 8, August 21, 2025 and 3:30 PM EST**


## **Instructions**

We will be able to get ok transcripts from EnjoyHQ, so focus notes on observations, clearly defined interpretations, and impactful utterances.


* Focus on observations of user behavior.
    * Example of observation: “Participants clicks on My VA tab, hovers over X header, then back buttons to landing page.”
    * Example of observation: “Participant says ‘this is annoying, that makes no sense.’ when looking to login to BTSSS.”
* Be clear where notetaker is interpreting or making inferences of what participant is thinking/feeling
    * Example of interpretation: “Based on facial expressions, participant seems to be confused. Going back and forth between X and Y pages seems like they are looking for something.”
    * Example of interpretation: “Participant easily found link no frustration.”


**Task order used:B,A**





## **Option A: Veteran does not have an email on file**

[Flow A](https://www.figma.com/proto/CAChU51fWYMZsgDR5RXeSc/MHV-Landing-Page?page-id=5465%3A1304&node-id=5861-21571&viewport=26%2C-947%2C0.42&t=spgbQ62qjaRH4JSQ-1&scaling=min-zoom&content-scaling=fixed&starting-point-node-id=5861%3A21571&show-proto-sidebar=1)

### **Start on: “Add a contact email address” page**

- Login again 


### ***First impressions***


1. What stands out to them?
- This one did not have email address on file 
- I don’t know how you would get this far with an email 

2. Do they know why asked?
- If for some reason in 2025 they did not have an email address on file 
3. What do they think they can do?
4. What questions do they have?
5. What info would they add and why?
6. Do they understand the consequences of not adding info?
- Has no idea what it would 
7. Do they understand/accurately id how to enter and advance?
10.  "Skip this for now" first impressions

Nottification: ANy kind of correspondents from the VA. The entire VA 

Just move forward with VA
But it would ask again 

[moderator note: instruct to click "Skip this for now"]

-  Seems like they knew they could skip for now 

### **On MyVA page with yellow "Confirm contact" alert"**

1. What stands out to them?

- Branch of the service and disability ratting 
- You can do everything from this page - List off tasks you can do on My VA without scrolling - seems to be familiar with page 
2. What actions do they identify?
3. What do they think  would happen if they clicked the rectangle? Do they recognize it? Do they know how to dismiss it?

- Have until Oct 15 to get notification - likens it to what they did with login 
- If wanted to ignore - would click on something esle and just ignore 
   
### **On: “Confirm your email” page**  (CARA note: update with new page)

1. What stands out to them?

- What can you do with the yellow alert? 
- Hit the X and it will go away 
- Anything  else? 
No
2. What actions do they identify?
3. What do they think would happen if they clicked the alert? Do they recognize it? Do they know how to dismiss it?   

### **On: “We've updated your contact email address” page**

1. What stands out to them?

- He notices the add button after they scrolled down 
- 
2. What actions do they identify?
3. Next steps?

No questions
It’s pretty straightforward for

### **Option Reflection Questions**


1. Overall, how easy or difficult would you say this process was? Probe on why

- Very easy 
2. What would you change about this process? Why?
Nothing 
3. What about this process would you keep?
- Everything -it’s simple enough 
4. Is there anything else you would like to share about this process that we have not covered?
- No, not at all 
Moderator note: Switch to other Option (so if completed Option A, move to Option B and vice-versa)


## **Option B: Veteran has an email on file**

[Flow B](https://www.figma.com/proto/CAChU51fWYMZsgDR5RXeSc/MHV-Landing-Page?page-id=5465%3A1304&node-id=5861-19456&viewport=26%2C-947%2C0.42&t=spgbQ62qjaRH4JSQ-1&scaling=min-zoom&content-scaling=fixed&starting-point-node-id=5861%3A19456&show-proto-sidebar=1)

### **Start on: “Action needed: confirm or update contact email” page**

- Participant would sign in 
- Use the ID.me 


### ***First impressions***

1. What stands out to them?
- 
2. Do they know why being asked?
3. Do they notice the Confirm and Update options?
5. What questions do they have?
6. What info would they add?
7. What do they think "Skip for now" means?
8. Do they identify how to confirm?

_[moderator note: show me/prompt to click confirm]_

*On Confirmation page:*

1. What stands out to them?
-
2. Next steps?

### **Option Reflection Questions**

1. Overall, how easy or difficult would you say this process was? Probe on why
Very easy. Extremely easy 
2. What would you change about this process? Why?
Nothing at all
3. What about this process would you keep?
4. Is there anything else you would like to share about this process that we have not covered?
Nothing at all 
Why update:
- Security reasons 
- Most accurate information 
- mailing address, home address 
- Does mention confirm and update 

- If skipped, it would ask him in the future  


## **Comparative Reflection questions**

1. What would you change about these processes?

- They are easy enough - Pretty straightforward 
- Not a lot of steps you have to take - not a lot of process 

2. What about this process would you keep?
3. Thinking about these processes, is there anything else you would like to share that we have not covered?

## **Comms recall questions**
1. Do you recall getting any communication about upcoming changes to how the VA would be communicating with you?

- Remembers getting communication from the VA regarding communications 

link to July 7 email 


2. Do you recall this email?

- 
3. Anything else to share?


