Uses mail order prescriptions and address change


# Conversation Guide for Address Management Research, April-May 2020

## Moderator logistics
*Use [#feedback-backchannel](https://dsva.slack.com/messages/C40B45NJK/details/) in Slack for real-time feedback from observers.*
*Before the session, send out the [observer instructions](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/vets.gov-team/blob/master/Practice%20Areas/Research/Research%20Process%20and%20Templates/observer-instructions.md) to your observers (Slackbot will do this for you if you type "observer instructions" into [#feedback-backchannel](https://dsva.slack.com/channels/feedback-backchannel)).*
*In the Attendees section, make sure everyone except the participant is on mute*
*In the Audio section, click the drop-down arrow and make sure "Play Entry/Exit Chimes" is unchecked*

*Check your [screensharing setup](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/vets.gov-team/blob/master/Practice%20Areas/remote-work/sharing-your-screen.md)*

*When the participant is ready, begin the session with the following intro*

## Intro - 5 minutes

Thanks for joining us today! My name is Lauryl Zenobi and I also have some colleagues on the line observing and taking notes. Today we're going to talk about your experiences managing your addresses and contact information across the VA. 

Before we start, a few things I want to mention:

- **This entire session should take about 45 minutes.** I want to be sure not to keep you much longer, so I may occasionally prompt you with the next question or topic.
- **In this session, we want to hear your honest opinions.** We are not testing your ability. We just want to improve these tools to better meet Veteran's needs. I will not be offended by any opinions you express, and I welcome your feedback.
- **If for any reason and at any time you want to stop the session, please let me know.** 
- **Are you comfortable if I record my screen and audio as we talk today?** We use the recordings to confirm that we have captured your opinions accurately. The recordings are destroyed after we complete analysis, and none of your comments will be attributed to you directly. 
    - If yes: **Once I start recording, I am going to confirm that you are ok with me recording this session once more.** 

*Start recording.*

- **I have started recording. I'd like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record my screen and the audio as we talk today?" 

## Warm-up Questions
Uses mail order prescriptions and address change
Let’s start with a few warm-up questions.
- What VA websites do you use?
VA.gov
MHV
eBenefits
Directs you to VA.gov
Usually the only thing I’m on there for is to refill meds, see what needs to be done, how many refills are left; follow-up, verify, or schedule appointments; use Blue Button to scroll back through my records to see what the doc has put in my records versus how the conversation went at the time
MHV to refill meds
- How do you normally interact with the VA? In person, online, over phone, etc?
For the most part it’s online
My local VA is only 15 min away from my house -- do a lot of things in person
If I need to make an appointment and I happen to be at my computer I’ll go ahead and do it online; otherwise I’ll call
Refill meds process:
When it’s running low, I’ll log in [to MHV], scroll down to the prescriptions
It’ll propagate a list of medications I’m currently on and how many refills each one has left
Check the box of which ones I need, hit submit
A few days later I’ll get an email that it’s shipped
Last month I had an issue where two meds didn’t have refills left
I called the VA and talked to a pharmacist; she said don’t worry about it, I’ll take care of everything
A week later I got an email that it had shipped and two days after that I got them
Very smooth, no issues
Verified address with the pharmacist over the phone
She said: “I’m showing an address in Ohio but this prescription was filled in Pennsylvania; where do you need it sent?” I said Ohio, it was taken care of
“When I did speak to the pharmacist recently about it, I did verify with her over the phone to verify the address. Reason being, my wife is active duty so we do move every few years, and the reason I bring that up is the last time one of those medications that didn’t have any refills was refilled, it was in Pennsylvania at a VA. And [the pharmacist] brought that up: she said, ‘Well, I show an address that you’re in Ohio, but this was last filled in Pennsylvania.’ And I said, ‘Yes, we recently moved.’ She said, ‘Where do you need it sent?’ I said, ‘I need it sent to the current Ohio address.’ And then it was hey, no problem, and everything was taken care of.”
How do you know where refills ship to?
Somewhere on MHV/VA.gov you can verify the address
I like the veteran’s crisis line banner at the top
Site timed out -- wasn’t able to look at it directly
- What types of addresses have you given to the VA?
- What does the VA use your address or addresses for?


## Updating addresses

- Tell me about the last time you updated your address or contact information with the VA 
- What was that process like?
When we moved from PA to OH, I went to the VA in-person, went to eligibility office, they updated the address
In and out in 10 minutes
The only time I had to verify or check that was with my last prescription refill
“I don’t really think about it, I don’t really second-guess it. If I see the [correct] name and address [on my prescription refill] I don’t mess with it.”
“If the address is not correct, I would search through the website to try and find a place to where you could edit the address and do it that way. If I’m unable to use the website for that for any reason, probably the first thing I would do is I would call the local VA, see if there’s something they could do to change it. I’ve never had that issue. If that doesn’t work, I would probably call the general VA customer service number and try to go through that to see what needs to be done.”
If I can’t find it online, I would call my local VA and see if they can change it
If that doesn’t work, I would call the generic national help line and see what needs to be done
When we moved to Colorado I didn’t know where the VA was in Colorado Springs yet so I went online and changed my address there
Back in 2015-16 -- not sure
Probably eBenefits or MHV
Haven’t had to venture into the other ones
“I guess I’m kind of old school: I would still prefer to talk to someone either on the phone or in person. But I do remember I went online because at the time I had actually started by using google maps to find where the closest VA clinic was, the local one. I went to their website, found out where it was, and then it directed me … to log into MyHealtheVet or eBenefits, whichever one it was, and go from there. So I went in there, I just had some experiences because we do move so often where you go in and all the VAs are supposed to be connected but they’re not. Or they don’t have records.”
Started by using google maps to find the closest local clinic
Website directed me to MHV or eBenefits
All the VAs are supposed to be connected, but they’re not
When we went to PA they hadn’t had a record update since 2012 (this was in 2018) 2012 when I moved from PA the first time, moved back to PA in 2018. There was a gap of records from 2012-2018. According to PA’s systems, the last time I had been seen at the VA was 2012, but I had been seen at VA’s in those six years.
“I don’t mind doing that legwork to make sure everything is good to go because I know down the line it can be a pain. Because that way no healthcare professional, whoever I see, it does no good if they can’t even find my information, my files.”
“When we moved from Colorado to Pennsylvania [in 2018], the last record they had of me being seen at any VA was in 2012, which would have been when we moved from Pennsylvania to Ohio the first go-round. They had nothing at all. I went to Patient Information; the lady who was working there, she kind of had to do some digging to find everything and I guess maybe transfer it over, connect it, whatever needed to be done. The end result was, I wasn’t there for maybe 5-10 minutes, and got everything taken care of. So I consider that a success.”
If I had not gone in person to make that appointment, I wouldn’t have known that they didn’t have my records from that six year period
“Having that gap delayed the physician’s ability to process my appointment, input any new information, look at my past information, verify medications, verify labs that I had done at previous VAs, stuff like that. All in all, it probably added five or ten minutes to the appointment. You know, just kind of trying to remember… Basically the doctor said, ‘Okay, we’ll just go ahead and input the information and hopefully once the computer system recognizes that you’re here everything will populate and it’ll be good to go.’ Obviously if I had gone into the ER, or anything of severity had happened, then yes, it would have been a very large impact.”
If I had had to go to the ER or had something more serious, that could’ve had a large impact.
I don’t mind doing legwork, because down the line when I see a health care professional it can cause problems
“It does no good if they can’t see my files” e.g. when I move and there’s a gap of records
* Why did you need to change your address?
* Where did you go to change it?
* How did you know the change went through?
* How often do you change your address at the VA?
* What information do you change often?
- Have you had issues with Rx refills not going smoothly?
* Would say less than six instances where we’ve moved, had gone in online and in person to makes sure the address was correct, but meds still went to the old address
	* Last time we moved to PA, was at an appt, got updated meds
“There have been some instances where we moved, and then even when I had gone in online and in person to make sure the address was correct, when meds were mailed, they went to the old address.”
“I got the email [that said] your meds are coming, no problem, well when the date came, nothing showed up. So I went back in and looked and they had sent it to the Colorado address. So there was a breakdown somewhere between the computer systems I would assume. Because it was in PA where the prescriptions were inputted, but it just, you know. Luckily for me, I still have quite a few friends that live out in Colorado. One of them was nice enough to drive by the house ... talk to the new gentleman that was living there. He said, ‘Oh yeah we got this package, I wasn’t sure what to do with it, so I kept it.’ ... They picked it up and mailed it to me. Then I called the VA in Pennsylvania and said, ‘Hey this is what happened,’ and they said, ‘Oh, let’s fix that for you.’ And then I haven’t had any issues since then.”
“With the move, it seems like there’s a lag of when I put in an address change, [before] every part of the system gets that address change.”
“I’m able to keep on top of it and willing to do the legwork to make sure everything goes smoothly.”
* I’m in the habit of where I check [address] online [believe it’s MHV] every time I refill
* Same with disability - I check the payment address each time
* With a move it seems like there’s a lag, between when I make the change and when every facility gets that change.
* In every case it’s usually only the first time after I moved. I have heard horror stories from other people where stuff never shows up. I am lucky that I was able to keep on top of it and do the legwork to make sure it goes smoothly
* Horror stories: it’s usually older folks. They’ve requested meds, not gotten them two or three times in a row. Called the VA, went to the VA, what’s going on. One issue was address numbers were transposed, so it went to a po in town instead of at the veteran’s mailing address. I’ve heard stories where they order the medication a month ago, and haven’t gotten it. They hadn’t call, but had told their dr last time. I had to advise them they needed to go talk to other folks at the VA, they had assumed that any address change with their dr was sufficient
* I think in general most people get their meds, even if they have to go pick it up in person. I think it’s usually taken care of.
- How do you know if VA has your most current address information?
	* How would you check that? 
- Why is it important to you for the VA to have up to date addresses?
- What contact information is unnecessary for the VA to have?
* The things I’m concerned with are banking information, making sure I’ve changed VA clinic when I move. They go over contact information each time; name/address, emergency contact name/CI, etc. To me that’s fine it’s the same information I would give to a civilian doctor. There’s no out of the ordinary information that they ask for. 
* I just tried logging in again, and my health.va just said they couldn't log me in because they couldn’t find me

## Final questions
- If you had a magic wand and could change something about updating your information with VA, what would it be? 
“I would like it to be that there’s a one-stop shop website where you could go in, verify your information, make sure all your pertinent stuff is there, that would have name, address, maybe a line that says ‘online prescription refills’. And if you click that it’ll list your address and you can edit that if it’s incorrect. And then say, compensation. So if you receive disability or school ... there could be a tab for educational benefits, and you could click on that and verify that the address and everything is correct there. And that way it’s kind of a one-and-done, it’s submitted. I would like it if there was a confirmation email sent after the fact. And I say that because that way that’s something that if the address isn’t changed, when I do go to get it fixed I can print a copy of that email out and give it to someone and be like, ‘Look, this date, this time, here’s a confirmation that I went in, changed it, it’s something with y’all’s system, I didn’t fat-finger my address or anything, it’s something with the computer system.’” 
* With VHIC when checking in, within reason, if we had the ability to use a CAC card reader to slide that card in to access these websites, so we don’t have to remember all the login information. It would make things so much easier.
- What haven’t I asked you that I should have?
* ”I’ve had instances where I’ve ordered meds online, ran out, called the VA and the pharmacy, said hey I’m out, I have two days left, I need a refill. They send it to me, but it goes through the mailing process, so it takes more than a week.
* I’ve had to call to see if I can pick it up instead. 
* I do wish shipping was faster. Or if there was an option for auto-refills, so I don’t have to go in every 90 days to request the refill. It would make things much easier for older folks.
- Any questions for me? 

## Thank-You and Closing - 2 minutes

Well we really appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us today. Your feedback is so helpful to us as we continue to work on the site and make sure it really works for Veterans.

Thanks! Lastly, do you know any other Veterans, caregivers, or service members who might be willing to participate in a future user research session? 
    If Yes: Thank you! I'll have our team send you an email with a little blurb that you can pass along. 

Great, well thank you so much again, and enjoy the rest of your day!
