Uses mail order prescriptions and address change


# Conversation Guide for Address Management Research, April-May 2020

## Moderator logistics
*Use [#feedback-backchannel](https://dsva.slack.com/messages/C40B45NJK/details/) in Slack for real-time feedback from observers.*
*Before the session, send out the [observer instructions](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/vets.gov-team/blob/master/Practice%20Areas/Research/Research%20Process%20and%20Templates/observer-instructions.md) to your observers (Slackbot will do this for you if you type "observer instructions" into [#feedback-backchannel](https://dsva.slack.com/channels/feedback-backchannel)).*
*In the Attendees section, make sure everyone except the participant is on mute*
*In the Audio section, click the drop-down arrow and make sure "Play Entry/Exit Chimes" is unchecked*

*Check your [screensharing setup](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/vets.gov-team/blob/master/Practice%20Areas/remote-work/sharing-your-screen.md)*

*When the participant is ready, begin the session with the following intro*

## Intro - 5 minutes

Thanks for joining us today! My name is Lauryl Zenobi and I also have some colleagues on the line observing and taking notes. Today we're going to talk about your experiences managing your addresses and contact information across the VA. 

Before we start, a few things I want to mention:

- **This entire session should take about 45 minutes.** I want to be sure not to keep you much longer, so I may occasionally prompt you with the next question or topic.
- **In this session, we want to hear your honest opinions.** We are not testing your ability. We just want to improve these tools to better meet Veteran's needs. I will not be offended by any opinions you express, and I welcome your feedback.
- **If for any reason and at any time you want to stop the session, please let me know.** 
- **Are you comfortable if I record my screen and audio as we talk today?** We use the recordings to confirm that we have captured your opinions accurately. The recordings are destroyed after we complete analysis, and none of your comments will be attributed to you directly. 
    - If yes: **Once I start recording, I am going to confirm that you are ok with me recording this session once more.** 

*Start recording.*

- **I have started recording. I'd like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record my screen and the audio as we talk today?" 

## Warm-up Questions
Let’s start with a few warm-up questions.
- What VA websites do you use?
	I usually use MyHealtheVet. I’ve used eBenefits. I know vets.gov exists but can’t say I use it
- How do you normally interact with the VA? In person, online, over phone, etc?
My preference is online but sometimes on the healthcare side, I find it easier to just call. MyHealtheVet can be cumbersome. For online I have to have my laptop and I don’t always have that. The secure messaging system doesn’t always appear to be compatible with
- Does VA have more than 1 address?
That’s very likely, I’ve moved more than once
- What types of addresses have you given to the VA?
 	* What does the VA use your address or addresses for?
Sending me paper reminders of things I already know
Certify that I had healthcare last year
New PCM (?)
Primary Care Manager(?) either way, a doctor
Relevant stuff on the benefits side


## Updating addresses
- Tell me about the last time you updated your address or contact information with the VA 
* What was that process like?
Went to the Durham VA
They had an intake person that canceled on me. I think they input it manually at that VA
* Why did you need to change your address?
I moved to the DC area, most recently this January 2020
I think I called the DC VA to do it. I’m not sure but I know I’ve received mail from them
I remember the previous move, that would’ve been about a year ago. I remember getting a message from MyHealtheVet saying I can’t change my address, that I have to have VA do it. So I called in
* Where did you go to change it?
* How did you know the change went through?
I don’t know for sure that my address change went through
When I do, through the postal service, I get a notification saying my mail is being forwarded
I remember one time I moved to an apartment and the address change didn’t take. It took a few phone calls. Someone had to do it manually. It always manages to be cumbersome
My banking is more sensitive than my healthcare to me, yet I can go into my banking app to change everything right there
* How often do you change your address at the VA?
I guess I change my address about every two years
We rent condos from other owners, so we change our address every time we move in the area
* What information do you change often?
My approach to the VA is I don’t expect anything to be automatic, I expect to be proactive about everything
I understand VA is a huge connected health enterprise and there’s a lot to keep track of with so many patients
- How do you know if VA has your most current address information?
	* How would you check that?
For healthcare, I would check MyHealtheVet
For the benefits side, I suppose I would check eBenefits
Getting there would just be Google
- Why is it important to you for the VA to have up to date addresses?

“(laughs) I suppose for any information that they need to send me and to verify that I’m not eligible for a homeless vets program, I guess.”

For any information they need to send me
To verify I’m not qualified for any homeless vets program

“I have, that’s part of the reason why I switched to community-based providers….the prescription mail was always such a pain, I mean just utter clown shoes. That’s an example of -- I had a prescription, and not just a prescription, a controlled substance, because there was some -- the pharmacy system is I guess is separate from other systems, I don’t know how the backend works on that. But the rationale that I was given was… your address didn’t update in the pharmacy system. So I actually had a controlled substance mailed to my previous address in another state (laughs) so that was...that was far from ideal. That kind of defeats the purpose; it’s not really a controlled substance if it’s mailed to an address I no longer live at.”

I have used the mail prescription program through the VA before, but that’s why I switched to community providers because it was a pain
I had a prescription for a controlled substance
I was given the explanation that my address wasn’t updated in the prescription system, so I had a controlled substance mailed to an address in another state that I no longer lived at
It sometimes came through UPS, sometimes through Postal Service
The timing [was an issue]...frequently I would have a refill come at day 32, 35. After a year of that, you may have lost 30 days of a prescription
There was no rhyme, no reason, no consistency
I’d have to login to MHV, but couldn’t login on my phone. Contact my provider. Provider says okay, here’s your refill. Once they responded, I’d have to get back on my laptop to see what they said.
Normally would get tracking information. If USPS, it’d come anywhere between 2-10 days
It seemed to be a very poorly managed process
The pharmacy would blame the postal service if the meds came late
If it was life or death prescriptions getting mailed, I can’t imagine what’s going on with that
“I just can’t help but wonder for some vets who are on life and death, no kidding life and death prescriptions that are mailed, I can’t help but wonder what’s happening with them.”
M: What, if anything, did you do to try the fix the prescription mailing issues?
I would always follow up with the most recent point of failure, that usually led me to the pharmacy. But I would have to leave a message, and I almost never received a call back. It felt like screaming into the void.
I happen to be close to the DC VA pharmacy, so sometimes I would drop in to talk to the pharmacist
I have also gone through the Patient Advocate office
My approach would be to seek out the point of failure and expect to run around [until it’s fixed]

Quote: “There were a couple times where I just happened to be close to the DC VA medical center and just drop in and just say -- you know, drop in to the pharmacy -- and say “hey can I speak to someone who’s in charge?” I also went through the Patient Advocate Office and those poor beleaguered souls with a sisyphean task.”

- What contact information is unnecessary for the VA to have?

## Final questions
- If you had a magic wand and could change something about updating your information with VA, what would it be?
[laughs] if I can change anything about it, my first thought would be a complete overhaul of the 1996 HIPAA law
The VA’s requirements are tied to that, so my first thing would be HIPAA reform
I don’t have an app for healthcare, it’s a cumbersome burden to talk to my provider or to update anything
M: What about the next thing?
Patients are always first, but there’s so many requirements. I don’t know how that can be shifted to be in a more patient/Veteran-centered system. And some much of it is at a local level. How big is this magic wand?
“HIPAA is the reason why I have an app where I can change anything with my bank, which is very important to me, but I don’t have an app for health care; it’s a cumbersome burden to speak to a provider it’s a cumbersome burden to adjust anything and that seems to be the reason -- and I could be completely wrong (laughs).”
M: What’s one change that would’ve made your personal experience with the VA easier?
If they could (and I’m sure there’s reasons they can’t) a little usage of non-VA pharmacies. I know that’s probably a whole thing. It would be a lot easier for a tech-savvy Veteran like me to have some way for me to take advantage of my local pharmacy instead of requiring me to drive 35 miles into DC
Having a one-stop-shop!
I can see why on the healthcare side, a one stop shop would be a real pain
“...having a one-stop shop, which I understand how difficult that would be...and I’m just looking at VHA and VBA you know, yes they’re both the VA but the Army and Air Force are both military but they’re very different beasts.”
Veterans ranging from people like me to on the VSO side, I remember working with a WWII Veteran was really difficult. Updating his address and other information was challenging. I was working with him to get his very much earned benefits and the process was something he would not be able to do on his own
I think a lot of this has to be done on the local level
I try to do things on my smartphone and it doesn’t take, so even I (computer and bureaucracy savvy) can’t do it easily
- What haven’t I asked you that I should have?
- Any questions for me? 

## Thank-You and Closing - 2 minutes

Well we really appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us today. Your feedback is so helpful to us as we continue to work on the site and make sure it really works for Veterans.

Thanks! Lastly, do you know any other Veterans, caregivers, or service members who might be willing to participate in a future user research session? 
    If Yes: Thank you! I'll have our team send you an email with a little blurb that you can pass along. 

Great, well thank you so much again, and enjoy the rest of your day!
