Used to Change address

# Conversation Guide for Address Management Research, April-May 2020

## Moderator logistics
*Use [#feedback-backchannel](https://dsva.slack.com/messages/C40B45NJK/details/) in Slack for real-time feedback from observers.*
*Before the session, send out the [observer instructions](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/vets.gov-team/blob/master/Practice%20Areas/Research/Research%20Process%20and%20Templates/observer-instructions.md) to your observers (Slackbot will do this for you if you type "observer instructions" into [#feedback-backchannel](https://dsva.slack.com/channels/feedback-backchannel)).*
*In the Attendees section, make sure everyone except the participant is on mute*
*In the Audio section, click the drop-down arrow and make sure "Play Entry/Exit Chimes" is unchecked*

*Check your [screensharing setup](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/vets.gov-team/blob/master/Practice%20Areas/remote-work/sharing-your-screen.md)*

*When the participant is ready, begin the session with the following intro*

## Intro - 5 minutes

Thanks for joining us today! My name is Lauryl Zenobi and I also have some colleagues on the line observing and taking notes. Today we're going to talk about your experiences managing your addresses and contact information across the VA. 

Before we start, a few things I want to mention:

- **This entire session should take about 45 minutes.** I want to be sure not to keep you much longer, so I may occasionally prompt you with the next question or topic.
- **In this session, we want to hear your honest opinions.** We are not testing your ability. We just want to improve these tools to better meet Veteran's needs. I will not be offended by any opinions you express, and I welcome your feedback.
- **If for any reason and at any time you want to stop the session, please let me know.** 
- **Are you comfortable if I record my screen and audio as we talk today?** We use the recordings to confirm that we have captured your opinions accurately. The recordings are destroyed after we complete analysis, and none of your comments will be attributed to you directly. 
    - If yes: **Once I start recording, I am going to confirm that you are ok with me recording this session once more.** 

*Start recording.*

- **I have started recording. I'd like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record my screen and the audio as we talk today?" 

## Warm-up Questions
Let’s start with a few warm-up questions.
- What VA websites do you use?
	- VA.gov
		- checking for phone numbers, contacts that I can use in the event I were to pass away, what my wife would do to: get burial benefits, survivor benefits, VA disability, stop pension
	- VA disabilities website (eBenefits?)
	- daughter uses education benefits so we fill out forms, receive benefits while she is a full time student
	- monthly VA email newsletter
- How do you normally interact with the VA? In person, online, over phone, etc?
	- phone, web
	- “I usually call them. I’m a baby boomer so I’m not that up-to-date on computers. I do it when I have to. Primarily I use the 1800 number”
- What types of addresses have you given to the VA?
	- when I deal with them I give them my home address, home phone, work phone
 	* What does the VA use your address or addresses for?
Questions about disability, daughter’s education benefits
Dealing with education benefits for 7 years (two daughters)
“To contact me with any questions they may have for my disability pay, as well as proof of attendance for my daughter. I think it’s after 60 days, they need proof that she’s actually attending class.”


## Updating addresses
- Tell me about the last time you updated your address or contact information with the VA 
* What was that process like?
“Actually they’ve been very helpful. We’ve lived in this current house for the last ten years. Everytime I call in or go online, they ask for confirmation of my SSN, my address, the school where she’s going and they’re contact information, and her social security number. I have not had to physically change the address for the last ten years, but they always ask that question: ‘what is your current address or is your address correct?’”. 
They’ve been very helpful
We’ve been in this house for 10 years
Every time I call or go online, they confirm address and daughter’s school info [when dealing with education]
I’ve not have to physically change the address in the last 10 years
They always ask to confirm address
I frequently had to change my address during my military career, but wasn’t interacting with VA then
Pretty clear process then too
We’ve been at the same address since I was still in the military
* Why did you need to change your address?
* Where did you go to change it?
[if you needed to change your daughter’s address] “I would, first of all, call them. That 1800 number seems to be very reliable. They have fairly good hours - they stay open until I think 8pm EST, and I’m usually able to catch them as long as I don’t call after 8o’clock at night, which is 5pm PST, that’s why I think they stay open until 8o’clock. I stay away from Mondays and Tuesdays because the wait can be 1-2 hours. I usually wait until Thursday or Friday when the calls taper off. And I try to stay away from the first of the month, that seems to be absolutely impossible.”
They have good hours, I’m usually able to catch them if I don’t call too late
I stay away from Mondays and Tuesdays because the wait is too long; later in the week they taper off
Never call on the first of the month -- absolutely impossible
I’ve used the VA website to fill out forms -- I have to print them out and mail them in
“I have used the VA website to go in and fill out forms, I manually do that. Then I have to print those  copies out and mail them in physically to Wisconsin.”
* How did you know the change went through?
“I usually have to call them to get that confirmation. Again, being a baby boomer, I usually don’t trust the answer I get unless I physically call and talk to somebody and say ‘did you receive my form, did you annotate the changes to my form, and is my daughter covered for the next scholastic year?’. I’m a telephone guy, although I will go online and provide them what they need, because they do need things that are online. They need the Request for Approval of School Attendance [form 21674 filled out.”
Being a baby boomer, I usually don’t trust the answer I get until I call and talk to someone and say “did you receive my form? Is it being processed? Does my daughter have benefits?”
I will go online because there are things they need online
They need 21674 Request For Approval of School Attendance 
Possibly stuff for survivor benefits and disability, but that’s mostly on autopilot
Currently figuring out what my wife will need to do if I pass, everything that’s involved there
* How often do you change your address at the VA?
* What information do you change often?
- How do you know if VA has your most current address information?
	* How would you check that? 
- Why is it important to you for the VA to have up to date addresses?
	- For one, for fraud or abuse. If I were the VA I wouldn't want to be paying benefits to the wrong person or a person who is deceased. 
 	- follow up if I pass away or no longer qualify
		- ensure that letters get to recipient and recipient updates things as necessary
	- my local facility is an active duty hospital very close to my house, I feel very fortunate that I don’t have to go to a VA hospital
		- soon we’ll move more than 50 miles away from an active duty hospital and have to change
		- “It’s important to have our current address up to date so they can number one, reach out to us with letters to make sure we’re aware of any changes that may be coming to VA, increase in benefits, pay raises, and the like.”
		- “It’ll be very important to connect with them [the VA, after we move to Florida]. So they have our most updated addresses so our letters don’t keep coming to Washington DC. We’ll have a change in address so they start sending our mailing material to this address in Florida. That will be the first thing we change when we get down there”.
- they’ll follow up via mail with anything that will change in my benefits
		- once we move, our address will be very important because we’ll need to be connected with the VA so our letters don’t keep coming to our current address
			- it’ll be the first thing we change when we get down there
- What contact information is unnecessary for the VA to have?

## Final questions
- If you had a magic wand and could change something about updating your information with VA, what would it be?
	- “I wouldn’t have to call and be on the line for an hour. I could make sure they received my changes, and I’d receive some acknowledgement that they’ve received the letter that I snail mailed, which seems like the only way they approve something.” 
	- “I’d like to know when they’ve received something so I’m not just wondering if they received it, which generates another phone call.”
		- would reduce a lot of the manual process of checking via phone calls
	- once my daughter’s out of school, we’re in the clear as long as I keep receiving my monthly benefits
	- they’ve been good about sending monthly emails about what I’m eligible for
	- “If there was some way that I could gain proof that they received what I had to send via snail mail”
	- there have been real improvements in the VA in the last 7 years
- What haven’t I asked you that I should have?
	- I think I’m kind of unique given I haven’t moved in 10 years
	- “When you change an address the first time, it pretty much sticks.”
		- you have to verify things each time you call (including address)
	- they probably don’t have a lot of information on us -- not a lot of address changes
	- we think our next move will be our final move, so we won’t be too difficult to keep track of
	- “For folks who do tend to move a lot, those folks are probably challenged [with address changes], but for us it’s been pretty seamless.”
		- if you fat-finger your SSN it’ll stick with you and you’ll have to deal with the same confirmation questions and wrong SSN number every time you call or go online
		- important to make sure you provide the correct information the first time
	- it’s important to keep getting updates because benefits keep changing
	- “It’’s really important to keep in touch with the VA if you want to receive the benefits that you have accrued.”
- Any questions for me? 

## Thank-You and Closing - 2 minutes

Well we really appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us today. Your feedback is so helpful to us as we continue to work on the site and make sure it really works for Veterans.

Thanks! Lastly, do you know any other Veterans, caregivers, or service members who might be willing to participate in a future user research session? 
    If Yes: Thank you! I'll have our team send you an email with a little blurb that you can pass along. 

Great, well thank you so much again, and enjoy the rest of your day!

