# Session Notes: Federal Standardized Header/Footer Usability Testing - Phase 2 (assistive tech users)

## Warm-up Questions 

1. *I understand you are a (Veteran / Family member / Caregiver). Is that right?* -Veteran.

1. *What kind of device are you using today? (Computer / Tablet / Smartphone)* -Laptop and removable keyboard.

1. *What operating system? (macOS / Windows / iOS / Android / _______)* -Windows 10

1. *What web browser do you use? (Chrome / Firefox / Edge / Safari / _______)* -Google Chrome

1. *What assistive technology are you using right now? (screen reader / magnifier name: _______________________)* -JAWS

1. *How would you rate your level of experience with using a screen (reader / magnifier)--beginner, intermediate, advanced, or expert?* -In the middle, some basics and some intermediate. But I don’t consider myself to be intermediate.

1. *How long have you been using a screen (reader / magnifier)?* - Consistently for about two years.

1. *Have you ever shared your screen in Zoom while using a screen (reader / magnifier)? (Yes / No)* -Yes, I have but it you’ll have to refresh my memory. 

1. *Is there anything else that we can do to support you during this session?* - I can’t think of anything at this time. 

1. *I will be sharing a web page link with you during the session. How would you prefer to receive the URL? I could dictate it to you, put it in the Zoom chat, email it to you, or (for smartphone only) text it to you.*  - Dictate to me. 

1. *What VA benefits, if any, do you have experience with?* - I have Chapter 35 education, VA for my healthcare, and I also receive disability compensation.

1. *How do you typically get information and benefits from the VA?* - I call. I do go to the website periodically but it’s too much and too cluttered.  

## User Tasks

### Task 2: [First impressions]
*I would like you to take some time to check out this web page from top to bottom, and then tell me about it. I'm interested in your impressions of what you see, any questions that you have, and how you feel about it.* - My first impression is that this page is in reference to insurance, and life insurance and I saw the calculator and can calculate how much you can get. 
- It appears I may be on the home page for the VA. Because I didn’t hear any of the insurance links.
- The first thing is that some of the things at the bottom are the typical things. The accessibility is something I would click on to see what that was. It seems like typical VA stuff. It seems a bit much but it’s typical VA stuff that needs to be there. It seems like a lot, like if I count them.

 ### Task 3: [Find VA location]
*I'd like you to imagine that you're planning a trip to another city, and you want to know where the nearest VA hospital is. How would you figure this out from this web page?* - My initial thought was when listening to this, was to select Urgent care or facility type. You would think if someone needed urgent care right away, that they would select that. It seems a little wordy to me. 

### Task 4: [Learn about disability compensation]
*Pretend that lately you've been having difficulty with your hearing, and you think it might be related to your military service. So you're wondering if you qualify for [more] disability compensation. What could you do from this web page?* - So what I did was tab through to see the information and I did a shift tab and click on the VA benefits and Health Care menu. Unless I’m missing something, I don’t see or hear something that would let me know if I qualify. I guess I would go to this disability menu and go to eligibility

### Task 5: [Find a Form]
*Let's say that you're considering going back to school to get your degree, and you'd like to see if the VA can help you pay for it. How might you apply online?* - Search isn’t working. It says the search button collapses, it means I have to hit enter or right arrow key to expand it. There’s usually a box to edit in. It appears to me like the search button and the edit box is below the search button, it’s usually beside it.
- Typically, the search box expanded and arrow to the left and when I went up, it took me to the like above that and you’d find trouble.
- I’m going to tab to the search box, I’m going to press enter and it expanded it. I would either tab to see if it’s to the right or arrow down to see if it’s there. Now, I will arrow down or tab see if takes me to there.
- Now I’m going to right arrow down and it’s spelling the word search. 
- Whenever there is something that says collapse, it lets you know that there are other things to read and you can either enter or right arrow to expand it. Now, when you expand it, right arrow down, and want to collapse it back you hit left arrow and it’s not collapsing.


### Task 6: [Careers at VA]
*I want you to pretend that you're job hunting, and you're wondering if you could get a job at the VA. How might you do that from this web page?* - I would do a Ctrl-End to take me to the bottom page because most career pages are at the bottom. Can you explain to me how this looks.
- When it’s at the end of footnotes, typically the careers for VA is up in that area. I feel like I had to go through a lot to get to careers for the VA. 
- I’d like to show you another thing I would do. Ctrl home and go to the top and Ctrl F. It seems it’s the bottom but there’s so much stuff there.

### Task 7: [Contact VA]
*Say that after using this website for a while, you didn't get all of your questions answered. How might you reach out to someone at the VA?* --I would here to contact and press enter. Sounds like it put me in an edit box. 
- I would go, call us and press enter.


### Task 8: [FOIA]
 *Say that you heard of the Freedom of Information Act, and you want to learn more about it. How might you do that from this web page?* - Because I already heard it from going to the bottom, I know it’s at the bottom but if I didn’t know I would go to Ctrl F. 
- Because it had parenthesis, I can’t click on that.
- I’m used to seeing link at the end. 
- When it says visited link, it should only say that when you click on it.

### Task 9: [Update your contact information with VA]
*Let's say that you recently moved and want to make sure that your mail and benefit information from the VA gets to your new address. I’d like you to update your address from this web page.* - I’m going to hit the tab until I hear something where I can update my information. Two things I would try, I would go home or type it in the search box.
- Typically, I would be looking for something that says update account or update profile to let me know I’m going into my actual information.
- I was trying to get to the search box and put in, update address.
- Ctrl home and now I’m going to do my insert to get to the bottom of the page. I’ll do another Ctrl Home to get to the top. You always start at the top because of the virtual cursor.
* What would you do in that case? -I would probably hit enter I guess to see what it would do. I don’t know what else I would do. I have never encountered that.
End Session. Time Over.

## Post-Task Interview 

1. *What stands out to you on this page that indicates this is an official government website?*

1. *(RECORD all comments on USA Government, VA seal, footer, etc.)*

1. *How often do you use VA.gov?*

1. *Do you use the VA mobile app? If so, how often?*

1. *Overall, about everything you've seen in this session...What worked *well* for you?*

1. *What was *unclear or didn't work well* for you?*

1. *What would you like to *change or add*?*

1. *Is there anything else that we haven't talked about that you think I should know?* 

## Thank You and Closing

*Are you still okay if we use any video or audio clips from this session?*
- *(If participant says yes) Is there any part of our discussion that you would NOT want shared in a video clip?*
