# Session Notes: Federal Standardized Header/Footer Usability Testing - Phase 2 (assistive tech users)

## Warm-up Questions 

1. *I understand you are a (Veteran / Family member / Caregiver). Is that right?*  -Veteran, yes. 

1. *What kind of device are you using today? (Computer / Tablet / Smartphone)* -Desktop computer. And I use Fusion.

1. *What operating system? (macOS / Windows / iOS / Android / _______)* -Windows.

1. *What web browser do you use? (Chrome / Firefox / Edge / Safari / _______)* -Google Chrome.

1. *What assistive technology are you using right now? (screen reader / magnifier name: _______________________)* -Fusion.

1. *How would you rate your level of experience with using a screen (reader / magnifier)--beginner, intermediate, advanced, or expert?* -Halfway between beginner and intermediate.

1. *How long have you been using a screen (reader / magnifier)?* -Maybe 5-6 years. I’m just guessing.

1. *Have you ever shared your screen in Zoom while using a screen (reader / magnifier)? (Yes / No)* -Yes but I’m going to have to have someone help me with that part. 

1. *Is there anything else that we can do to support you during this session?* 

1. *I will be sharing a web page link with you during the session. How would you prefer to receive the URL? I could dictate it to you, put it in the Zoom chat, email it to you, or (for smartphone only) text it to you.*  - If you email it to me,

1. *What VA benefits, if any, do you have experience with?* -I have healthcare, I have blind rehab, I have VA compensation. I use just about anything that is available to me. 

1. *How do you typically get information and benefits from the VA?* -Very hard. It takes you a long time when you put in claims and stuff. 
-I call the VA 1-800 number but that agent sometimes doesn’t have the right answer. 

## User Tasks

### Task 2: [First impressions]
*I would like you to take some time to check out this web page from top to bottom, and then tell me about it. I'm interested in your impressions of what you see, any questions that you have, and how you feel about it.* -This is on something that is available. I was just talking to someone about survivor benefits and talking to someone last week about a website, I use My HealtheVet and they are coming up with a website, VA.gov. 
 

### Task 3: [Find VA location]
*I'd like you to imagine that you're planning a trip to another city, and you want to know where the nearest VA hospital is. How would you figure this out from this web page?* -I guess I can ask Siri if that State that I am going to has a VA medical center. 


### Task 4: [Learn about disability compensation]
*Pretend that lately you've been having difficulty with your hearing, and you think it might be related to your military service. So you're wondering if you qualify for [more] disability compensation. What could you do from this web page?* -There was a link that said, “Increase compensation”. 
-Right there, ( File for VA disability increase).


### Task 5: [Find a Form]
*Let's say that you're considering going back to school to get your degree, and you'd like to see if the VA can help you pay for it. How might you apply online?* - I thought eligibility might take me there but I guess not.  
- How to apply for the GI Bill and related benefits link.

### Task 6: [Careers at VA]
*I want you to pretend that you're job hunting, and you're wondering if you could get a job at the VA. How might you do that from this web page?*

### Task 7: [Contact VA]
*Say that after using this website for a while, you didn't get all of your questions answered. How might you reach out to someone at the VA?*
-Sometimes I go to VISCO. Sometimes she can send someone to our home to help us out. Just last week I called My HealtheVet and helped me over the phone. 
- Resources and support, I’m going to click on that and see. 
- Click Contact Us. 

### Task 8: [FOIA]
 *Say that you heard of the Freedom of Information Act, and you want to learn more about it. How might you do that from this web page?*

### Task 9: [Update your contact information with VA]
*Let's say that you recently moved and want to make sure that your mail and benefit information from the VA gets to your new address. I’d like you to update your address from this web page.* -I’m looking if I moved, how to change my contact information. 

*Logged in : 
-I’m looking at privacy, it might be there. 
-Maybe profile menu helped. 
*What do you expect to find in profile? - My profile would be, birthday, maybe my address. 


## Post-Task Interview 

1. *What stands out to you on this page that indicates this is an official government website?*
-Some of the questions you asked me before, the answers are here on this website. 
-When you open up this website, I think it would be very helpful. 

1. *(RECORD all comments on USA Government, VA seal, footer, etc.)*

1. *How often do you use VA.gov?*

1. *Do you use the VA mobile app? If so, how often?*

1. *Overall, about everything you've seen in this session...What worked *well* for you?*

1. *What was *unclear or didn't work well* for you?*

1. *What would you like to *change or add*?*

1. *Is there anything else that we haven't talked about that you think I should know?* 

## Thank You and Closing

*Are you still okay if we use any video or audio clips from this session?*
- *(If participant says yes) Is there any part of our discussion that you would NOT want shared in a video clip?*

