# Session Notes: Federal Standardized Header/Footer Usability Testing - Phase 2 (assistive tech users)

## Warm-up Questions 

1. *I understand you are a (Veteran / Family member / Caregiver). Is that right?* - Veteran, Yes.

1. *What kind of device are you using today? (Computer / Tablet / Smartphone)*- Smartphone, iPhone.

1. *What operating system? (macOS / Windows / iOS / Android / _______)* -11 Pro max, but I think I just downloaded 17. 

1. *What web browser do you use? (Chrome / Firefox / Edge / Safari / _______)* -Google Chrome.

1. *What assistive technology are you using right now? (screen reader / magnifier name: _______________________)*- I have to zoom my screen to 160%. And other that I don’t use assistive devices. It’s on all apps. It’s a phone level.

1. *How would you rate your level of experience with using a screen (reader / magnifier)--beginner, intermediate, advanced, or expert?* -Expert.

1. *How long have you been using a screen (reader / magnifier)?* -Since 2009. It was probably higher in 2009 because I threw a blood clot. 

1. *Have you ever shared your screen in Zoom while using a screen (reader / magnifier)? (Yes / No)* - I don’t think I have. 

1. *Is there anything else that we can do to support you during this session?*- No, I think I’m okay. 

1. *I will be sharing a web page link with you during the session. How would you prefer to receive the URL? I could dictate it to you, put it in the Zoom chat, email it to you, or (for smartphone only) text it to you.*  - The Zoom chat.

1. *What VA benefits, if any, do you have experience with?* - I have everything. I go to the VA for everything, gyno, vision, dental, and general health, I’ve have COPD, and I have asthma. 

1. *How do you typically get information and benefits from the VA?* - I look at every email they send me. 

## User Tasks

### Task 2: [First impressions]
*I would like you to take some time to check out this web page from top to bottom, and then tell me about it. I'm interested in your impressions of what you see, any questions that you have, and how you feel about it.* - I don’t buy life insurance, so I would bypass that. I always look at the homeless center. I’m not on any social media, so I would pass that. 
 

### Task 3: [Find VA location]
*I'd like you to imagine that you're planning a trip to another city, and you want to know where the nearest VA hospital is. How would you figure this out from this web page?* - I would click on search and type in VA facility Clearwater Florida. 


### Task 4: [Learn about disability compensation]
*Pretend that lately you've been having difficulty with your hearing, and you think it might be related to your military service. So you're wondering if you qualify for [more] disability compensation. What could you do from this web page?* - There’s resources at the top and there’s a menu. I would click the menu. 
-I’d send a message to my healthcare team. 
-This, how to apply is a start to the beginning. That’s the only other thing that I see. 


### Task 5: [Find a Form]
*Let's say that you're considering going back to school to get your degree, and you'd like to see if the VA can help you pay for it. How might you apply online?* - I would probably search for Veteran education. 
-I hate chatbots, they are worthless, I wouldn’t even bother us. 

### Task 6: [Careers at VA]
*I want you to pretend that you're job hunting, and you're wondering if you could get a job at the VA. How might you do that from this web page?* - I would come down here and see if there’s anything related to careers. Careers at VA, here you go. 

### Task 7: [Contact VA]
*Say that after using this website for a while, you didn't get all of your questions answered. How might you reach out to someone at the VA?* -There is a Contact Us list down here. 

### Task 8: [FOIA]
 *Say that you heard of the Freedom of Information Act, and you want to learn more about it. How might you do that from this web page?* -There’s also a click-on for that. It was near accessibility. Press releases, maybe. From this point, I would click on press releases. 
-Here you go, down here at the bottom. 

### Task 9: [Update your contact information with VA]
*Let's say that you recently moved and want to make sure that your mail and benefit information from the VA gets to your new address. I’d like you to update your address from this web page.* - I think I would go to the State of Veterans Affairs office link. 
-If I sign in, it gives me my profile. 
-When I faked my name logged in, I didn’t realize that my sign-in turned into a sign-out and is indicative of your prototype. 
-When I sign in, it should say, Hi Janet you’re here. 
1. *Where would you like to see your name?* Up at the top. 

## Post-Task Interview 

1.	*What stands out to you on this page that indicates this is an official government website?* - The seal.
-I like the seal. I like the wording. 

2.	1. *(RECORD all comments on USA Government, VA seal, footer, etc.)* - The blue, red and black doesn’t look familiar. The blues and black, and white looks familiar. It doesn’t look professional. It doesn’t instill confidence in me. The blue in the U doesn’t correspond with any other blue. 
3.	*Blue section?* -That information leaves you hanging. It should be more descriptive.
-There seems to be a disconnect between these things and then it gets broad. Then business and researchers--I’m not sure why I would be looking at business or researchers. What is researchers? 
- *Black box USA?* It’s got the same font like up at the top but I don’t like that. Other than the S, I don’t like that S. 


1. *How often do you use VA.gov?* - A lot. multiple times a week. 

1. *Do you use the VA mobile app? If so, how often?* I have it on my toolbar on my computer. Yes, I have it downloaded on my phone. Probably, it depends if I have doctor appointments. Like twice a week. If I don’t, then I would not be using it at all. 

1. *Overall, about everything you've seen in this session...What worked *well* for you?* -The links for well. I like the way it’s laid out. It’s what I expect to see with coloring and font. I think it’s pretty good. 

1. *What was *unclear or didn't work well* for you?* - I don’t like the inconsistency with punctuation at the bottom. I don’t like that my name was not at the top once I logged in. When I log into My HealtheVet, it says, Welcome Janet. 

1.	*What would you like to *change or add*?* -I would like to not go so deep in the bowels of this and continue to search (for profile). Other than that, I’m okay with it. 

1. *Personalized to you?* - The first section is personalized to me. 
The second section, are things that I would think this would pertain to the masses. 
1. *Is there anything else that we haven't talked about that you think I should know?* 

1. *Lettering at the top?* -I would wonder who made the decision to make that tacky letter S. Not appealing. I also don’t like that the blue is a different color than any other blue on the page. 
## Thank You and Closing

*Are you still okay if we use any video or audio clips from this session?* -Absolutely. You can share all of it. 
- *(If participant says yes) Is there any part of our discussion that you would NOT want shared in a video clip?*

