# Session Notes: Federal Standardized Header/Footer Usability Testing - Phase 2 (assistive tech users)

## Warm-up Questions 

1. *I understand you are a (Veteran / Family member / Caregiver). Is that right?* - Veteran, Yes.

1. *What kind of device are you using today? (Computer / Tablet / Smartphone)* - Dell Laptop.

1. *What operating system? (macOS / Windows / iOS / Android / _______)*

1. *What web browser do you use? (Chrome / Firefox / Edge / Safari / _______)* - I’m using Firefox.

1. *What assistive technology are you using right now? (screen reader / magnifier name: _______________________)* - Magic 14. It’s both a screen reader and a screen magnifier.

1. *How would you rate your level of experience with using a screen (reader / magnifier)--beginner, intermediate, advanced, or expert?* - I guess intermediate/advanced. 

1. *How long have you been using a screen (reader / magnifier)?* - Magic I’ve been using it since 2010 and Magic 14 since 2019 (a different version). 

1. *Have you ever shared your screen in Zoom while using a screen (reader / magnifier)? (Yes / No)*- Yes.

1. *Is there anything else that we can do to support you during this session?* - Not that I know of. 

1. *I will be sharing a web page link with you during the session. How would you prefer to receive the URL? I could dictate it to you, put it in the Zoom chat, email it to you, or (for smartphone only) text it to you.* -The chat would be fine. 

1. *What VA benefits, if any, do you have experience with?* -I get my visual equipment through there, my healthcare and I just had my first dental. 
1. *Do you receive disability compensation?* - Yes.

1. *How do you typically get information and benefits from the VA?* - I’m on the email list and I receive a lot and I have the app. I have 7 or 8 VA apps. Sometimes it’s through my VISC leader. 


## User Tasks

### Task 2: [First impressions]
*I would like you to take some time to check out this web page from top to bottom, and then tell me about it. I'm interested in your impressions of what you see, any questions that you have, and how you feel about it.* - My first thoughts are, will it work with this screen reader. Both VA Benefits and Healthcare and About VA tab isn’t working well. 
-Occasionally I will get the one that reads the main URL. It’s actually common.
-Typically on the links, it’s just the title, not the entire URL.

 1. *Is what you see magnified?* - Yes, thats why I have to keep scrolling up and down. 
1. *When do you use the screen reader?* -In the evening more, in the morning more, it depends. If there's going to be a lot of reading, I’ll just use the magnifier because there's too much information. 
1. *Are you using your mouse all the time?* -Yes. 

### Task 3: [Find VA location]
*I'd like you to imagine that you're planning a trip to another city, and you want to know where the nearest VA hospital is. How would you figure this out from this web page?* -I’m going to see if there’s anything that says VA locations or my VA. I usually know where it is. 
-I’m going to click on this State Veterans Affairs Offices.
1. *Anything else you might try?* -Search maybe, and search the State to see what pops up. 

### Task 4: [Learn about disability compensation]
*Pretend that lately you've been having difficulty with your hearing, and you think it might be related to your military service. So you're wondering if you qualify for [more] disability compensation. What could you do from this web page?* -I would go under VA benefits and Health Care. I’m looking for something that says Benefits. 
-Disability might be an option.
-None of these headings are reading it. Once, I click it reads it. Usually, when I hover, it reads it. 


### Task 5: [Find a Form]
*Let's say that you're considering going back to school to get your degree, and you'd like to see if the VA can help you pay for it. How might you apply online?* -Go to Benefits. Go under education and training. 
-Click how to apply. 
-This time I click on it and it reads and takes me there. 

### Task 6: [Careers at VA]
*I want you to pretend that you're job hunting, and you're wondering if you could get a job at the VA. How might you do that from this web page?* 

### Task 7: [Contact VA]
*Say that after using this website for a while, you didn't get all of your questions answered. How might you reach out to someone at the VA?* -I usually look for some type of contact or resource thing which is usually on the bottom. 
-Okay, it’s not at the bottom, I’ll look at the top. 
-These (tabs), I hover over and they read. 
-See, now these (sub-tabs) aren’t reading.
-Sometimes the chatbot helps you find it quicker. 

### Task 8: [FOIA]
 *Say that you heard of the Freedom of Information Act, and you want to learn more about it. How might you do that from this web page?*

### Task 9: [Update your contact information with VA]
*Let's say that you recently moved and want to make sure that your mail and benefit information from the VA gets to your new address. I’d like you to update your address from this web page.* 
- I would look at profile, personal data and click on it and see my options. 
- Yes, if I want to change my personal data, I have to be signed in. I typically use My HealtheVet. 


## Post-Task Interview 

1. *What stands out to you on this page that indicates this is an official government website?* -Nothing. I mean it says USA government and symbol but how do I know it’s the government? I’d have to go by the URL. 

1. *(RECORD all comments on USA Government, VA seal, footer, etc.)* 
- It doesn’t read. I would, I usually say US government, but USA is okay too. I’m more interested in the VA part than USA Government. 
- You typically look at the logo. But it’s not reading the logo. 
1. *Footer area?* - It only read accessibility but not about VA (black area). 
1. *Blue area, below the white area?* -It’s not in alphabetical order. 
1. *Black area?* -This look official because of the symbol [VA seal]. 

- The other USA is colorful and pretty but not necessary. 
- The main thing I look for is the seal. 

1. *How often do you use VA.gov?* -Probably 3-5 times a week.
-When I use my computer I go through My HealtheVet. 

1. *Do you use the VA mobile app? If so, how often?* -The app. 

1. *Overall, about everything you've seen in this session...What worked *well* for you?*

1. *What was *unclear or didn't work well* for you?* - The reading. The majority of things that didn’t work, the reading and I had to scroll. 

1.*What would you like to *change or add*?* - Not as much. You have all these down here (blue area) on you information board. Lot of links. 
1. *What do you think of the black part?* – It sticks out. That’s where I’m confused because you normally see that on a footer. It’s so big. 

1. *What is your background?* I have a Masters's degree in Blind and visually impaired. 
End Session. Time Over. 
## Thank You and Closing

*Are you still okay if we use any video or audio clips from this session?*
- *(If participant says yes) Is there any part of our discussion that you would NOT want shared in a video clip?*
