# Session Notes: Federal Standardized Header/Footer Usability Testing - Phase 2 (assistive tech users)

## Warm-up Questions 

1. *I understand you are a (Veteran / Family member / Caregiver). Is that right?* -Yes, Veteran, my dad served, and brother served. 

1. *What kind of device are you using today? (Computer / Tablet / Smartphone)* -Computer.

1. *What operating system? (macOS / Windows / iOS / Android / _______)* -Windows.

1. *What web browser do you use? (Chrome / Firefox / Edge / Safari / _______)* -Google Chrome (Microsoft Edge appeared later in zoom meeting).

1. *What assistive technology are you using right now? (screen reader / magnifier name: _______________________)* -Zoom text.

1. *How would you rate your level of experience with using a screen (reader / magnifier)--beginner, intermediate, advanced, or expert?* -Intermediate or advanced. I’ve been using it since 2006-2007 when I lost my sight. 

1. *How long have you been using a screen (reader / magnifier)?* -I have not. 

1. *Have you ever shared your screen in Zoom while using a screen (reader / magnifier)? (Yes / No)* -No.

1. *Is there anything else that we can do to support you during this session?* -No, I’m comfortable. 

1. *I will be sharing a web page link with you during the session. How would you prefer to receive the URL? I could dictate it to you, put it in the Zoom chat, email it to you, or (for smartphone only) text it to you.*  -Either an email or in the chat. 

1. *What VA benefits, if any, do you have experience with?* -VA healthcare and VISC, I think that’s part of healthcare or not. Disability. 

1. *How do you typically get information and benefits from the VA?* - I do most of it over the phone like setting up appointments or talking to my VISC.

## User Tasks

### Task 2: [First impressions]
*I would like you to take some time to check out this web page from top to bottom, and then tell me about it. I'm interested in your impressions of what you see, any questions that you have, and how you feel about it.* - I’m looking at the headings like VA benefits and healthcare. The dropdowns. I kept my life insurance when I got out of the Navy. 
I’ve only used it on my phone not on my computer. 
Right now I have it where I can see VA and benefits healthcare and to the right I see About VA and a F and deciding how much Life Gets. And the Financial situation at the bottom. 
My magnification is 4 times normal.
 I don’t see color very well. 

### Task 3: [Find VA location]
*I'd like you to imagine that you're planning a trip to another city, and you want to know where the nearest VA hospital is. How would you figure this out from this web page?* - I would go to find a VA location, I’m going to click on it and it gives me the option of city, state, zip code. 


### Task 4: [Learn about disability compensation]
*Pretend that lately you've been having difficulty with your hearing, and you think it might be related to your military service. So you're wondering if you qualify for [more] disability compensation. What could you do from this web page?* -Maybe the VA Benefits and Healthcare. I would probably assume that’s where I would start. So, then it gives me a drop-down list of stuff. I would probably choose disability. It give me another menu that opens up to the side. I can’t see it but now I have to scroll over to see it. 
-I would look at disability increase and see where that takes me.


### Task 5: [Find a Form]
*Let's say that you're considering going back to school to get your degree, and you'd like to see if the VA can help you pay for it. How might you apply online?* - I would probably assume it's still in Benefits. But I remember there is always stuff at the bottom of the screen. 
-Again, assuming it is under benefits. 
-I would go to how to apply even though personally, I would go to eligibility first. 

### Task 6: [Careers at VA]
*I want you to pretend that you're job hunting, and you're wondering if you could get a job at the VA. How might you do that from this web page?* -From this website I thought I saw at the bottom. Careers at VA are kinda at the bottom of the screen. 

### Task 7: [Contact VA]
*Say that after using this website for a while, you didn't get all of your questions answered. How might you reach out to someone at the VA?* - Contact. I would either search to find the topic or answer there.
-Or I would click Contact Us. 
-I would contact the local VA facility, I would choose that one, find a VA location near you. 
*1. Anything else you’d click on this page?* There’s a Call Us link. It depends on what my question was. 

### Task 8: [FOIA]
 *Say that you heard of the Freedom of Information Act, and you want to learn more about it. How might you do that from this web page?* - I would probably use the search. 

### Task 9: [Update your contact information with VA]
*Let's say that you recently moved and want to make sure that your mail and benefit information from the VA gets to your new address. I’d like you to update your address from this web page.* - I will click on the Contact, link on change address. 
1. *Have you tried doing this online before?* - No. I don’t remember how I updated it. 
-I’m going to sign in. I would use My HealtheVet, but I have used ID.me and login.gov. 
1. *Now that you see you name. what would you do?* -That I have an account and it has a drop-down and that is where you can change your profile, those sorts of things. 
## Post-Task Interview 

1. *What stands out to you on this page that indicates this is an official government website?* - Above the seal it says USA government. It doesn’t mean that it is but all the way up at the URL it has a https which is supposed to be more secure, which also makes me think it’s more official. USA government and the US Department of Veteran Affairs and the seal, make me think that it’s legit. 
- I usually look at the URL. One that it has an S and it’s secure and two what the actual web address is. 
1. *(RECORD all comments on USA Government, VA seal, footer, etc.)* - The USA government, it looks kinda legit with the blue and the red, not the black. It looks like intended to be a government website. 
- *Thoughts on the Seal?* makes it look more official and U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs. 
- *Blue section?* – I think it’s a good place to look for whatever information you’re looking for quickly. I like how it’s categorized. It’s sorted well in my opinion. 
- *Black section?* - I think it’s just trying to reiterate that we are on an official website. The seal I can’t really see. It just looks like a circle to me. It tells me down here like at the top that it is an official website.
 - I think it’s still another good place to find information, depending on what you’re looking for. 
1. *How often do you use VA.gov?* - Yes, I have. I was just on the VA.gov website right before the new year. I think because I got a new prescription and I heard there was a way to refill instead of calling in because you have to read the tiny little numbers on the bottle. 
-Periodically, I don’t do it as often. Maybe in the last 6 months, maybe 3-4 times. 

1. *Do you use the VA mobile app? If so, how often?* I do not use. 

1. *Overall, about everything you've seen in this session...What worked *well* for you?* -All of it. I liked the contrast and the headings at the top are straightforward. It’s laid out pretty well. The fonts are good, nice, and smooth. I like the white writing on the blue, white on the black. 

1. *What was *unclear or didn't work well* for you?* -Everything was fine. 

1. *What would you like to *change or add*?* -No. 

1. *Is there anything else that we haven't talked about that you think I should know?*  -Sometimes when you have to fill in a form, depending on what, that’s usually where the accessibility issues come into play for us who use different software. It’s a PDF and it’s not fillable, that’s where there are issues. That is where we get stuck. 

## Thank You and Closing

*Are you still okay if we use any video or audio clips from this session?* -Yes.
- *(If participant says yes) Is there any part of our discussion that you would NOT want shared in a video clip?* -No, I’m okay sharing all of it. 


