# Session Notes: Federal Standardized Header/Footer Usability Testing - Phase 2 (assistive tech users)

## Warm-up Questions 

1. *I understand you are a (Veteran / Family member / Caregiver). Is that right?* -Veteran, Yes. 

1. *What kind of device are you using today? (Computer / Tablet / Smartphone)* -iPad pro (landscape mode) because I have a keyboard and use it like a laptop.

1. *What operating system? (macOS / Windows / iOS / Android / _______)* -Safari.

1. *What web browser do you use? (Chrome / Firefox / Edge / Safari / _______)* -My hearing aids, they hook up to stuff.

1. *What assistive technology are you using right now? (screen reader / magnifier name: _______________________)*, Oh yes, quite a bit ( increase font size)

1. *How would you rate your level of experience with using a screen (reader / magnifier)--beginner, intermediate, advanced, or expert?* -Intermediate.

1. *How long have you been using a screen (reader / magnifier)?* - About 10 years. 

1. *Have you ever shared your screen in Zoom while using a screen (reader / magnifier)? (Yes / No)* -Yes.

1. *Is there anything else that we can do to support you during this session?* -No.

1. *I will be sharing a web page link with you during the session. How would you prefer to receive the URL? I could dictate it to you, put it in the Zoom chat, email it to you, or (for smartphone only) text it to you.* - Can you email it to me. 
-You can put it in the Zoom chat will be fine.  

1. *What VA benefits, if any, do you have experience with?* -100% service-connected disabled. For my mental health, I use the VA video connect and I do that out of Reno because in California just doesn’t take care of us anymore. 
-I use community care. It took me 30 years to get my VA benefits.

1. *How do you typically get information and benefits from the VA?* - I use the messaging system. 
- I was doing it through the VA app but it doesn’t work. So I’m back on My Healthe Vet. 


## User Tasks

### Task 2: [First impressions]
*I would like you to take some time to check out this web page from top to bottom, and then tell me about it. I'm interested in your impressions of what you see, any questions that you have, and how you feel about it.* -The only thing that frustrates me is where the ocean floor, why are they not putting Senior Veterans? That’s how I feel. Now, that I am a Senior, I feel discriminated against. 

 

### Task 3: [Find VA location]
*I'd like you to imagine that you're planning a trip to another city, and you want to know where the nearest VA hospital is. How would you figure this out from this web page?* -I would go to the healthcare and access, quality under more resources. I’m sorry, Find VA location under the blue part on the top. So, now I’m looking at a map of United States and Canada, and saying to put city, state, postal code. 


### Task 4: [Learn about disability compensation]
*Pretend that lately you've been having difficulty with your hearing, and you think it might be related to your military service. So you're wondering if you qualify for [more] disability compensation. What could you do from this web page?* - VA benefits and healthcare, I clicked the drop-down menu and then disability benefits. I would file for a VA disability increase. 
*Is your font enlarged?* -Yes, it’s at 125%. 


### Task 5: [Find a Form]
*Let's say that you're considering going back to school to get your degree, and you'd like to see if the VA can help you pay for it. How might you apply online?* -Its probably under VA benefits and healthcare, educations and training. 

### Task 6: [Careers at VA]
*I want you to pretend that you're job hunting, and you're wondering if you could get a job at the VA. How might you do that from this web page?* -I know careers was underneath education and training. 
-Find a job under manage a career.


### Task 7: [Contact VA]
*Say that after using this website for a while, you didn't get all of your questions answered. How might you reach out to someone at the VA?* -Up on top it says US government of Veteran Affairs and it says Contact. I probably would click, Contact.
-It’s says here Contact us. 
*Which one would you choose?* -If I go down to Call us, I think that would be the best one because it might the main one.

### Task 8: [FOIA]
 *Say that you heard of the Freedom of Information Act, and you want to learn more about it. How might you do that from this web page?* -I’m looking at the bottom under more resources, all the way down at the bottom under USA.gov in black it says, Freedom of Information Act. 

### Task 9: [Update your contact information with VA]
*Let's say that you recently moved and want to make sure that your mail and benefit information from the VA gets to your new address. I’d like you to update your address from this web page.* -I’m looking under benefits and healthcare, I’m not seeing that there. I’m looking at the very bottom, I guess at this point I would, maybe VA. I really can’t see where I would do that. Maybe search for it. 
-There’s a search field, but I’m not sure what I would be searching for at this point. Maybe VA forms under more resources. 
I clicked at, Sign in, the one I use the most is, My HealtheVet because it’s the first one I’ve used. 
-I put my email address in, password and now I hit sign in, it take me to the main screen. It says I’m signed in as William. 
*How will you change your address now?* -Possibly under records, it’s under benefits and Healthcare. 
-I wouldn’t know how to do it on here. I see VA form, then again I went to VA benefits and Healthcare and then, change address under records. I don’t see any other way. 
-I’d probably hit profile. 
-Now, that I see my profile, it probably would let me change everything. 
-When you said it’s by my name, I saw the drop-down. 
-The triangle, I didn’t acknowledge that it was there. 
-The things are not consistent and got me a little confused. 


## Post-Task Interview 

1. *What stands out to you on this page that indicates this is an official government website?* -USA government up on top. It’s in Red, Blue, letters. They have that seal all over the place. 

1. *(RECORD all comments on USA Government, VA seal, footer, etc.)*- It stands out. Usually the address bar, there’s usually something up there popping out to let me know I’m on an official page. 
-It doesn’t look as clean as normal government websites. The fonts aren’t consistent. 
-I’m used to having things be consistent to me. 
*What if I told you this was a real website?* -I wouldn’t care one way or another because I still need to do what I need to do. 
*What do you think of the Seal*- I think it’s appropriate on a Veteran Affairs page. 
-There’s that font again [white logo in the footer], The S is different than the U and the A. You don’t see it as much because it’s in the same color font. It look clean, it looks organized. 
1. *How often do you use VA.gov?* -Yes I have. The last time I used it is when I moved. I used it to change my address, when I bought my house. 
-I use my My Healthe Vet all the time to check my appointments. 
*How do you get to My HealtheVet?* - I open up Safari and enter My HealtheVet

1. *Do you use the VA mobile app? If so, how often?* I used it more than the web page because it was easier. I was using it every day. 

1. *Overall, about everything you've seen in this session...What worked *well* for you?* -Everything except the arrows up on top because I didn’t notice them. 

1. *What was *unclear or didn't work well* for you?* -Not really. It’s clean and it explains everything pretty well. It’s organized well. 

1. *What would you like to *change or add*?* -I think where it says contact search and sign in, if it were me, I would extend the blue area under where it says USA.gov with the same font.

1. *Is there anything else that we haven't talked about that you think I should know?* -No, I think it’s great. I can’t think of anything else. Other than the fact that you can report to have them to add [a link for] Seniors. 
- When you get older, people don’t know who to find aid, so some sort of assistance. 
-A special area would be nice, like day programs. Because if you don’t know where to find them, you don’t know they are there. 
-I had to take a test to find out if I had Alzheimer's, it would be beneficial to have a link like that. 
-Activities for Seniors, because you’re retired and you don’t know what to do.
-Or senior Olympics because I know the VA is involved with that. 

## Thank You and Closing

*Are you still okay if we use any video or audio clips from this session?* -Sure.
- *(If participant says yes) Is there any part of our discussion that you would NOT want shared in a video clip?* -No. Please sure it all with the VA.


