# Session Notes: Federal Standardized Header/Footer Usability Testing - Phase 2 (assistive tech users)

## Warm-up Questions 

1. *I understand you are a (Veteran / Family member / Caregiver). Is that right?* - Veteran, Yes.

1. *What kind of device are you using today? (Computer / Tablet / Smartphone)* -iPhone XR.

1. *What operating system? (macOS / Windows / iOS / Android / _______)* -Safari.

1. *What web browser do you use? (Chrome / Firefox / Edge / Safari / _______)* -.
When I’m trying to learn something, and my muscle memory doesn’t suffice on a website. - Safari
-I don’t browse, I don’t use websites. I limit myself to apps because websites are difficult. 
-I have no central vision. Peripheral (his vision).

1. *What assistive technology are you using right now? (screen reader / magnifier name: _______________________)* Voiceover

1. *How would you rate your level of experience with using a screen (reader / magnifier)--beginner, intermediate, advanced, or expert?* -No experts. Advanced.

1. *How long have you been using a screen (reader / magnifier)?* -Since the iPhone 7, 4-5 years.

1. *Have you ever shared your screen in Zoom while using a screen (reader / magnifier)? (Yes / No)*

1. *Is there anything else that we can do to support you during this session?* -No, I’m fine.

1. *I will be sharing a web page link with you during the session. How would you prefer to receive the URL? I could dictate it to you, put it in the Zoom chat, email it to you, or (for smartphone only) text it to you.*  - I would like to see and learn from the chat function for my benefit.

1. *What VA benefits, if any, do you have experience with?* -The blind rehabilitation center, BRC as an inpatient, I’m a graduate of BRC. I have been asked to move my medical to a VA branch clinic. I’m waiting for a medical provider. 
1. *Do you get disability compensation?* 10%.

1. *How do you typically get information and benefits from the VA?* -Direct deposit, the media exposure for VA’s live well. I’m embedded in a few of their groups.
 -If I initiate it, it would be by phone call. All means possible. I have a case at the white house with a case ID number and see if they can assist me with having my local clinic help me. 

1. *Have you used any VA websites to get a hold of anyone?*- No.

## User Tasks

### Task 2: [First impressions]
*I would like you to take some time to check out this web page from top to bottom, and then tell me about it. I'm interested in your impressions of what you see, any questions that you have, and how you feel about it.* -My initial impression was that things are where I expected them to be. There should be a Contact Us link and it should be towards the bottom. I guess the layout of the button field feels normal.
 

### Task 3: [Find VA location]
*I'd like you to imagine that you're planning a trip to another city, and you want to know where the nearest VA hospital is. How would you figure this out from this web page?* -Is it available on this website? 
-I would go to more resources. I’m listening for anything that sounds. State Veterans Affairs offices, I’ve landed on that one and activated it. 
-I would expect to see a drop-down box that would say, “What State are you looking in?”.
I would go to VA.gov if I were looking for a state-based facility. Looking for a search bar. 
-I have not seen a search bar on this page. I’m looking at the top, yes, right here. 
-I would type in what you said. If it were in my state, I would say, “ VA locations near me”. 


### Task 4: [Learn about disability compensation]
*Pretend that lately you've been having difficulty with your hearing, and you think it might be related to your military service. So you're wondering if you qualify for [more] disability compensation. What could you do from this web page?* -This is a new concept to me. I don’t know enough to ask a question about something new. I don’t know anything about that process or how to word the question. I would think I would need to see an audiologist. 
-Let's search this web page for eligibility. 
*How did you get disability compensation?* -Yes, a VSO took care of everything. I have never filled out a page. 
-I would probably use this menu bottom because of the word “picker”. This is what I expect to see, under healthcare, disabilities, even though I don’t think hearing loss is a disability. 
*Where would you go from here?* -File for disability increase. 

### Task 5: [Find a Form]
*Let's say that you're considering going back to school to get your degree, and you'd like to see if the VA can help you pay for it. How might you apply online?* -Phone a friend is starting to sound real easy. I would start at the menu, see if I saw a top that was close, and I don’t see anything that feels like what I’m looking for. Now, I would go to the top and search for application education opportunities through the VA.
-In all honesty, I would refer to a teenager because you need to know how to speak, they seem to know the keywords. 

### Task 6: [Careers at VA]
*I want you to pretend that you're job hunting, and you're wondering if you could get a job at the VA. How might you do that from this web page?*

### Task 7: [Contact VA]
*Say that after using this website for a while, you didn't get all of your questions answered. How might you reach out to someone at the VA?* - I would scroll to the bottom of the page and find Contact Us. I don’t see it, now I would go to the top of the page and go to the menu, there it is Contact Us.
-I would call them. 

### Task 8: [FOIA]
 *Say that you heard of the Freedom of Information Act, and you want to learn more about it. How might you do that from this web page?*

### Task 9: [Update your contact information with VA]
*Let's say that you recently moved and want to make sure that your mail and benefit information from the VA gets to your new address. I’d like you to update your address from this web page.* -I would do go back to search and ask, “ how do I update my address” I presume I would need to sign in to change my address. 
-My HealtheVet and I would expect that apple would remember my ID.
-I’m looking for something that would be profile, me specific because I am logged in. There it is, choosing profile. 
- I was unaware that my name was on that bar. I didn’t look in that area for my information, I thought it would be in menu. 
-The feature that had my name and profile, that’s totally off the screen now, I guess I would have to go back to the main screen in order to see me. But when you are over in any other menu, that disappears. I would expect, that when I am logged in, that me would probably be visible in the main line up at the top. 


## Post-Task Interview 

1. *What stands out to you on this page that indicates this is an official government website?* - I would look for a Padlock and the first line, Veterans Affairs would mean it was an official website.

1. *(RECORD all comments on USA Government, VA seal, footer, etc.)*

1. *How often do you use VA.gov?*

1. *Do you use the VA mobile app? If so, how often?*

1. *Overall, about everything you've seen in this session...What worked *well* for you?*

1. *What was *unclear or didn't work well* for you?* - My fingers, I saw that because URL density or how much information you want to put on a screen, if the human finger can’t touch it, it can be frustrating. 
-A pop menu if difficult for me because the menu background is always the same color that it’s trying to overlay on. 
-The word close, it is the exact same color as the background and area on the screen below it. I don’t have an area that I can do, I have to activate it, it doesn’t jump to it on the active part of the screen. 
-*What would be helpful?*- Visually a bold type window or changing the background color that isn’t native to the webpage. Is there a way to get Voiceover to jump and read when you select a menu item, I’m not sure. This is not just your website, it’s all websites. Something pops up and I will not know that it popped up. 
-The word close would be better than the letter X.

1. *What would you like to *change or add*?* 

1. *Is there anything else that we haven't talked about that you think I should know?* 

## Thank You and Closing

*Are you still okay if we use any video or audio clips from this session?*
- *(If participant says yes) Is there any part of our discussion that you would NOT want shared in a video clip?*
