# Session Notes: Federal Standardized Header/Footer Usability Testing - Phase 2 (assistive tech users)

## Warm-up Questions 

1. *I understand you are a (Veteran / Family member / Caregiver). Is that right?* -Veteran, Yes.

1. *What kind of device are you using today? (Computer / Tablet / Smartphone)* -Desktop PC

1. *What operating system? (macOS / Windows / iOS / Android / _______)* -Windows 11.

1. *What web browser do you use? (Chrome / Firefox / Edge / Safari / _______)* -Primarily google chrome and sometimes Edge or other browsers.

1. *What assistive technology are you using right now? (screen reader / magnifier name: _______________________)* - Built-in windows magnifier and on other browsers the Zoom function, blow it up to see it.

1. *How would you rate your level of experience with using a screen (reader / magnifier)--beginner, intermediate, advanced, or expert?* -I’ll say intermediate. 

1. *How long have you been using a screen (reader / magnifier)?* -Probably more than 10 years.

1. *Have you ever shared your screen in Zoom while using a screen (reader / magnifier)? (Yes / No)* -Yes.

1. *Is there anything else that we can do to support you during this session?* -Not from the top of my head.

1. *I will be sharing a web page link with you during the session. How would you prefer to receive the URL? I could dictate it to you, put it in the Zoom chat, email it to you, or (for smartphone only) text it to you.*  -Chat is fine.

1. *What VA benefits, if any, do you have experience with?* -Probably just education benefits and I’m 100% disabled and I use VA healthcare and I also use one of the benefits for education, pilot program, VA Vet tech.

1. *How do you typically get information and benefits from the VA?* -I use a mix of online, web browser, and VA app. I use the regular VA website, VA.gov.

## User Tasks

### Task 2: [First impressions]
*I would like you to take some time to check out this web page from top to bottom, and then tell me about it. I'm interested in your impressions of what you see, any questions that you have, and how you feel about it.* -It looks like a traditional VA website, text is similar and standard links that you see on their web page. 
 

### Task 3: [Find VA location]
*I'd like you to imagine that you're planning a trip to another city, and you want to know where the nearest VA hospital is. How would you figure this out from this web page?* -I would use the search option here I guess, nearest VA facility. 


### Task 4: [Learn about disability compensation]
*Pretend that lately you've been having difficulty with your hearing, and you think it might be related to your military service. So you're wondering if you qualify for [more] disability compensation. What could you do from this web page?* -I mean, I usually sign in and then look at VA benefits and healthcare. I would click, Disability, and look into eligibility or how to file a claim. What would prompt me more would be using drop downs. 
-All of this looks all similar, that’s how I found out about the Vet tech. 

*When do you use the magnifier?* -From the browser itself. I would normally open it up and zoom in closer. 
-From the browser but it doesn’t seem to be working in Zoom. 
-I don’t use the built in Windows version because it’s clunky. 
-It’s zooming on the screen but now it won't let me interact with it when I’m magnifying. I can’t scroll down. I have to go back to normal view to be able to interact. 
-Now it’s not responding at all. 
-[stopped screen share, adjusted zoom level, then reshared screen]
-Now it works as intended.
### Task 5: [Find a Form]
*Let's say that you're considering going back to school to get your degree, and you'd like to see if the VA can help you pay for it. How might you apply online?* -I would go to VA benefits and Healthcare, education and training, then how to apply. Instructions on how to generally apply. I would click find the benefits of your education form.

### Task 6: [Careers at VA]
*I want you to pretend that you're job hunting, and you're wondering if you could get a job at the VA. How might you do that from this web page?* -I have no idea. Search functionality. I would go to a specific site, I wouldn’t normally go to VA.gov to do that. I would probably go to about VA, veterans benefits, VA organizations itself.
- There it is, VA benefits and healthcare, find careers and support. 

### Task 7: [Contact VA]
*Say that after using this website for a while, you didn't get all of your questions answered. How might you reach out to someone at the VA?* -Contact here, Contact Us, depends on what I’m doing, I like doing stuff online, or call one of those. I wouldn’t go to VA website for that, I would just google it. 

### Task 8: [FOIA]
 *Say that you heard of the Freedom of Information Act, and you want to learn more about it. How might you do that from this web page?* -Well  search up here in the search box or maybe something down at the bottom of the page. Here you go, the Freedom of Information Act. 

### Task 9: [Update your contact information with VA]
*Let's say that you recently moved and want to make sure that your mail and benefit information from the VA gets to your new address. I’d like you to update your address from this web page.* -I would sign in, DS logon sign in, and click the drop-down with my name on it, I wanted to click this first, but then I saw my profile. 

## Post-Task Interview 

1. *What stands out to you on this page that indicates this is an official government website?* -I don’t think this is on the top of the regular VA website. The seal and similar feel to what I know the regular VA website. I will type VA.gov and look at the web address to make sure it’s official. 
-USA government?*- It doesn’t look like something that is on the VA website. It looks different and stands out like sore thumb. I would automatically, I would think this isn’t it. Nothing about it looks official. 
-Has the seals, US Department of Veterans Affairs, all of that looks normal, similar to what the website looks now. 
-When I first got out, I was a contractor and was an employment coordinator. 
-I’m familiar because I did this myself and with the help of others. 
-Blue area?* - Better categories maybe. I guess they are good categories I just don’t know how I feel about these here like homeless veterans.
-Under information for, these are important  but I don’t know about Women Veterans because we are all Veterans. Homeless, I don’t find those useful, and business. 

1. *(RECORD all comments on USA Government, VA seal, footer, etc.)* The blue stands out more. Then got distracted by this (black area) and came back up to the blue. 
-Seeing the larger logo USA logo, made me think I was at the bottom of the page. 

1. *How often do you use VA.gov?* Probably 8-10 times a year, maybe a little more now because I check my appointments with the VA. Maybe now 1-2 times a week maybe. I find myself looking for disability or compensation letters. 

1. *Do you use the VA mobile app? If so, how often?* I use that normally. I use that  1-2 times a week. I have done my letters on there but it was more of a pain. But I can’t remember if it was weird getting it or how I got it.

1. *Overall, about everything you've seen in this session...What worked *well* for you?* -The way the page is laid out. It does direct you to different things. 
- I do like that there’s larger text. 

1. *What was *unclear or didn't work well* for you?* - Everything seems like it works well, just having the knowledge to find things. 
- I like the buttons, I like the drop-downs. 

1. *What would you like to *change or add*?* -Larger text and cut off the space on the sides.
-If I were going for it, this is how I would look at it, at 175% zoomed. The only issue is the dropdowns because you can’t see the whole drop-down, there’s just an extra step with that.
-Curious why they chose Tagalog, not that it matters. 
-I don’t understand why About VA would be down here (black area). 
-I like this, USA, seal, VA.gov and they’re saying it’s an official website, I like that (black area).
-It looks strange, I would just have it the same at the top and bottom (colored USA). I say just do black on white so it matches the bottom. They look different. 


1. *Is there anything else that we haven't talked about that you think I should know?*  -It would be great to have ways to log in and store our information or a faster way, like a QR code.

## Thank You and Closing

*Are you still okay if we use any video or audio clips from this session?* -No problem.
- *(If participant says yes) Is there any part of our discussion that you would NOT want shared in a video clip?* 

*Search function?* -I went to the search thing, top, across and down. I never used the VA’s website to find a location. I just use Google. 
*Search or link when on other websites?* -I would click on a link. 



