# Session Notes: Federal Standardized Header/Footer Usability Testing - Phase 2 (assistive tech users)

## Warm-up Questions 

1. *I understand you are a (Veteran / Family member / Caregiver). Is that right?* -Veteran, correct.

1. *What kind of device are you using today? (Computer / Tablet / Smartphone)* -iPad, HP Pro.

1. *What operating system? (macOS / Windows / iOS / Android / _______)* 

1. *What web browser do you use? (Chrome / Firefox / Edge / Safari / _______)* -I usually use Google or Safari. Most of the time Safari.

1. *What assistive technology are you using right now? (screen reader / magnifier name: _______________________)* -Apple products. It’s usually a Mac computer, iPad, or iPhone.
-I use Voiceover.

1. *How would you rate your level of experience with using a screen (reader / magnifier)--beginner, intermediate, advanced, or expert?* -I might say Advanced.

1. *How long have you been using a screen (reader / magnifier)?* -About 10 years now. 

1. *Have you ever shared your screen in Zoom while using a screen (reader / magnifier)? (Yes / No)* -No, other than video, no.

1. *Is there anything else that we can do to support you during this session?* -Just keep walking me through it. 

1. *I will be sharing a web page link with you during the session. How would you prefer to receive the URL? I could dictate it to you, put it in the Zoom chat, email it to you, or (for smartphone only) text it to you.* -Let's try it in the chat box.

1. *What VA benefits, if any, do you have experience with?* -VA healthcare, disability compensation, other than my healthcare, my blind rehab, and provide my technology, it just takes longer when seeing doctors. It can take six weeks to see a specialist. 

1. *How do you typically get information and benefits from the VA?* - I get a letter or card that tells me about the meeting. The only problem I have I have with the letter or card is that evidently they forgot they’re sending it to a blind person, and sending it in an inaccessible format. 
1. *Is there electronic means that such information is sent?* I get a text reminder. I don’t recall getting email reminders. 
1. *How do you reach out to the VA?* -Depends on what it is. If I’m trying to get to my primary care provider, I go through my HealtheVet or if push comes to shove, I reach out to my VIST coordinator. 

## User Tasks

### Task 2: [First impressions]
*I would like you to take some time to check out this web page from top to bottom, and then tell me about it. I'm interested in your impressions of what you see, any questions that you have, and how you feel about it.* -I’m wondering why it says life insurance. This is the VA website based on it reading to me. -When I use VoiceOver, I let it read everything to me. 
 

### Task 3: [Find VA location]
*I'd like you to imagine that you're planning a trip to another city, and you want to know where the nearest VA hospital is. How would you figure this out from this web page?* -Resources and support. 
-Find a VA location, now it’s telling me city. 


### Task 4: [Learn about disability compensation]
*Pretend that lately you've been having difficulty with your hearing, and you think it might be related to your military service. So you're wondering if you qualify for [more] disability compensation. What could you do from this web page?* -Seeing a claims officer. 
*How might you find a claims officer to talk to?* -I would notify my organization. I would call BVA headquarters and talk to the man in charge of the field service program and let them know I want to put in a claim.
-I can go to the State Veterans Affairs office if I wanted to or the national resource here or the accredited claims office. The reason I know I would do those things is because I used to be a service claims officer. I helped process claims for blinded Veterans.
-I stopped doing that in 2012. 


### Task 5: [Find a Form]
*Let's say that you're considering going back to school to get your degree, and you'd like to see if the VA can help you pay for it. How might you apply online?* -Resources and support, let's see if they have education. Resources and support, I would assume it’s in there
-The State office, I’d ask them. It should be under benefits too. 
-Education and training. 
-Get education benefits and, an eligibility link, that would be where to start. 

### Task 6: [Careers at VA]
*I want you to pretend that you're job hunting, and you're wondering if you could get a job at the VA. How might you do that from this web page?* -Footer > Careers at VA. 


### Task 7: [Contact VA]
*Say that after using this website for a while, you didn't get all of your questions answered. How might you reach out to someone at the VA?* -Call Us the phone number down there, it’s at the bottom of the page. 
-Contact Us. 
-There it is. I heard the phone number earlier and for some reason, it kept going to the bottom and I brought it to the bottom and worked it backwards. 
-If I had no vision, I would have no idea that there are different columns.


### Task 8: [FOIA]
 *Say that you heard of the Freedom of Information Act, and you want to learn more about it. How might you do that from this web page?* -Hit search and start typing. 
-Or, more resources, the National Resources directory. I should be able to get under that, shouldn’t I?
-I typed on the search window and opened the search window open, tap open close, and I double-tap to open up the keyboard. 
-I shouldn’t have to double-tap. 

### Task 9: [Update your contact information with VA]
*Let's say that you recently moved and want to make sure that your mail and benefit information from the VA gets to your new address. I’d like you to update your address from this web page.* -I would go to my information, pull it up and go down to where it would have my address and make the changes. I would go into my personal information. 
-I see my name there, profile, there we go. 

## Post-Task Interview 

1. *What stands out to you on this page that indicates this is an official government website?*
-US government logo, VA seal. I like the logo myself. 
-I couldn’t tell you if it was an official seal but it tells me it’s an official seal. It says, VA seal, US government logo. 

1. *(RECORD all comments on USA Government, VA seal, footer, etc.)* -

1. *How often do you use VA.gov?*  -I tried going to VA.gov but it was more work trying to get in it’s more cumbersome than My HealtheVet itself. I stick with it. I tried all three of them and My HealtheVet is a little more simple.

1. *Do you use the VA mobile app? If so, how often?* -I got a little trouble with that because of the authentication part and I stopped using it. I got it on my phone now. 
- Well, the thing you have to jump over into text messages to pull it and that’s where it comes a little difficult because it reads the verification information out loud.
1. *Was it uncomfortable to get the authentication code in a public setting?* -Yes. 

1. *Overall, about everything you've seen in this session...What worked *well* for you?* -After it was explained, all of it. But without an explanation of what you are looking for or where to swipe touch, it was difficult to do. 

1. *What was *unclear or didn't work well* for you?* -Home, search window would be one of them.
-It would nice to know if there’s a new column. 

1. *What would you like to *change or add*?* -KISS principle, keep it simple stupid. 

1. *Is there anything else that we haven't talked about that you think I should know?*  -No, I don’t think so. Not from the top of my head. 
-American Legion. 
-The BVA moved to Teams. The trainings are still on Zoom but the VA moved to Teams. 

## Thank You and Closing

*Are you still okay if we use any video or audio clips from this session?* -I’m fine.
- *(If participant says yes) Is there any part of our discussion that you would NOT want shared in a video clip?* -No. You can use it all. 

