# August 29, 2023: Burials and memorials business line review
*Ask VA Integration Team*

## Agenda

- Introductions
- Review AVA form fields
- Review category and topic names

## Attendees

- Our team: Tyler, Becky, Ruchi, Chante
- Survivor benefits team: Victor Breon Johnson
- NCA team: Jennifer Kelly
- CRM team: Jaime, Shelby, Chris, Wayne, Maria
- Not present: Jennifer Reaser-Feuer, Angelita Taylor

## Key takeaways

- The responses to `Tell us the reason you’re contacting us` aren't being used much by agents:
> "I don't think it's useful. We rarely receive compliments... Town hall is different. When we were having the town hall on a regular basis, we did see that. But in general this field doesn't really serve a big purpose. I haven't even looked at the data to see how often this is being used."
- Both Breon and Jennifer said they will use whichever contact method is preferred by the Veteran. Both business lines have the ability to send US mail, too.
- `Gender` is not necessary:
> "NCA doesn't track that inside of AVA. We just respond with she/her or you."
- We looked at each `military service information` field. Jennifer said that these fields are essential. Since these fields are not all required, they have to take it on a case-by-case basis – it depends which fields the submitter fills out and what their inquiry is about.
> "If we have a Veteran who was born before 1968, and they've never filed for anything before with VBA or VHA. It's likely their discharge docs are archived... we have to go into VIS and type in service number, first name, last name and middle name, DOB. If that doesn't work, you go check for SSN. It's essential that we have this information. We know have access to MPI which helps. All the fields are very important to us."
>
> "If they don't provide something, it's case by case. If they don't give it to me, we'll go ask them and find out what it is. There's so many people that don't really give us anything."
- We will follow up over email to discuss the proposed updates to the `Burial and memorials` category's topic names.
 
## Actions

- [ ] Email Jennifer and Breon to ask for feedback on category and topic names.

## References

- [Category, topic and subtopic proposed names spreadsheet](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1AlUqvwn49ah2gHniTwx3x0afOPliKgURo575e73OH40/edit#gid=1192783561) we reviewed in Google Sheets.
- [Form fields review (with business lines)](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1GIsq9Y6Ap9mBUL49j1Ad7tm1N_nfD0Yoxw9ThtexCMU/edit#gid=329502423) we reviewed in Google Sheets.
- [Complete meeting notes](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1y5nzZ1pDojdTjKEXu3d0eM_jxj72WrSRxaEsZOoiqkA/edit) in Google Docs.
