# 2022-05-02 Team Meeting

## Attendees
- Tracey Mulrooney
- Meg Peters
- Jonathan Nelson
- Megan Graham
- Marci

## General Discussion

- Marci will post a high-level plan for moving into sprint planning on Slack
- We will talk about handoff next Monday.  
- Marci will re-post the handoff Mural link nearer to the end of the week so it's not lost in Research & PI discussion

## Updates

### Jonathan
- Attended research session; dropped some notes in there
- Gathered up a list of things that he thinks will be useful as a designer
- Strategizing how detailed the design annotations need to be
- Engineers on MVH - any exposure to 
- Tracey - an hour of engineering time a week
	- Meg - is that hour a week going to be enough? 
	- Tracey requested six hours of engineering from someone that has secure messaging time to talk about the designs and look at them
	- Meg - maybe a demo every two weeks so it's not the first time they've seen it at the end
	- Tracey - we can bring it up, but it's up to them to bring the right resources in
### Megan
- Second round of research most of this week; turnout has not been great
- Session today - participant got through some things very smoothly; some things didn't line up with his mental model
- Interesting opportunities to learn about the appointments research
### Marci
- Signed MHV up for general Product orientation tomorrow
- Opened GitHub issues for their Product onboarding checklists, other than one person without a GitHub handle
### Meg
- Biweekly health/auth sync
- Updated that we had a team onboarding for messaging
- Brought up different intersections of their work
- Pharmacy has kicked off the flagship mobile app
- Talked to Danielle McGee after seeing Mo's work; discussing Get Benefits vs. Learn and Apply and getting more tactical with that.
### Tracey
- Attending PI planning
- We should attend Wednesday to talk about the work we want, who gets it done, and how
- Their Mural board shows the work requested, the sprints, and where the work is allotted.
- Didn't see anything about secure messaging, so she's reaching out to them about that
- 
## Highlights from today's research session
- [Research Mural](https://app.mural.co/t/departmentofveteransaffairs9999/m/departmentofveteransaffairs9999/1650924627121/b05f7f78ed14bad338bd4664791cb8555680e751?sender=u8abf3342601897092e1b3882) - P7
- Participant had some thoughts about how prescriptions should be displayed, had a specific mental model he was expecting it to fit
- Would have relied on the masthead & hamburger menu a lot
- Didn't see this section until there was a bit of an technical issue and it was pointed out
- He was visually impaired; had problems with seeing and was on an iPad.  
- What worked well
	- Knew that all his prescriptions came to him by mail
	- Knew how to track prescriptions - did that a lot
	- A lot of examples where he just "knew the VA", so parts made sense, and other things broke his understanding of the VA
		- Setting up an appointment was a struggle because he just sends his doctor a message.  His mental model was that he would always visit his Primary Care provider and then would be preferred so didn't think he should be making this request.
		- Was super security conscious.  Had worked in IT and was very comfortable with talking about technical aspects
		- VA was the only entity he trusted to have electronic records.  Didn't the WWW as a whole. 
	- His point was that he's not really schedule; I'm just requesting an an appointment (was associating with what he does now)
	- Was tripped up about messaging.  Sometimes he would use the breadcrumbs to navigate smoothly, but on the appointments screen, he looked all over that page and then said he didn't know.  Never thought to back all the way out until prompted.  Took him a little bit to go through and find things in the section header
	- Was not a scroller
	- When asked how he would read an old message, he would filter by his doctor, and if it was really old, he would try to search by oldest first
	- They heard "filter by doctor" several times.  Searching is essentially filtering by doctor, but something we need to think about
	- He initially thought there was no way to search; may have been cognitive load
	- When Perigean sends info, they don't say if they are visually impaired. 
	- Until he tried to Zoom in, they were't aware he was visually impaired.
	- He needed to enlarge the font and put it in dark mode to see it.
	- We need to keep back to top in mind
	- Maybe at the beginning, ask if they use any assistive technology
	- Thought the home page was too long; if you were on a screen reader, it would take a really long time
	- Some people use their screen readers hierarchically.  Others might go through all the links.  '
	- Starting to see some patterns emerge.
	- They requested 14 or 15; thinks they were expecting 10-12 to show
	- If we don't reach the minimum, they would reach out to Perigean for more participants unless there are clear themes.
