# P1
**Self-disclose, 50% or greater disability rating, computer**

Please note: these are not verbatum notes, except where indicated by quotes

M= moderator

P= Participant 1

_recording accepted_



M: Now let's say that you were actually going to apply, tell me what you would do next.

P: _scrolling intro_ Go to start your application (sign in to start your application button)

M: Do you have a VA.gov login

P: I don't think so

P: I would go here (sign in to start your application button)

M: That would be if you were going to do it with an account, do you see away to do it without an account?

P: Yes, (clicks on link to start without signing in)

M: Go ahead and fill it out like a real application, feel free to let me know if something stands out, otherwise go ahead and fill it out

P: OK (starts filling in form)

P: So, never mind...well, for that suffix that refers if they're male, I'm hoping there is something that let's me choose male or female. When I first signed up, I checked female, but it marked me as male in the system, and it took me about two years to get that changed. Because you know we're different, and you know for like surgeries and medication. 

M: Wow that sounds a bit frustrating.

P: Yeah

P: (Sees birth sex question) "ok, good"

P: So I have a comment, and I don't know what's it called, when you fill a lot on sites, and it pops in and it can fill it in. For me, something like this, because I have that on my computer, for security measure, I don't think that should be available, because someone could use it and it wouldn't be legit.

P: Is home address same as mailing address, that's a good question... Because some people have PO boxes, especially if you're getting medication mail."

(Participant answers disability compensation question without hesitation)

(Blue alert- participant clicks on more info component, reads, and confirms)

M: Can I ask what the "hmm" was?

P: (laughs) "I'm sorry, it explained it clearly, it was clear. Because I was like hmm, because I was like 'hmm' because VA is always associated with delays and long waits for answers, it explained it in such a way that it was hmm that makes sense."

P: (Medicaid question) So I would have to google if I was eligible for Medicaid, so maybe just a little sentece in there about income thresholds requirement, just some basics in bullet form.

M: That way you wouldn't have to google it, right?

P: Right, if there's an age thing...

P: (notices green expandable allert) Reads: "You're filling out a shortened application, hmm so I'm going to do the little dropdown thing.(opens)

M: Tell me what you're thinking there.

P: "My first thought is, is that a good thing?"

M: Tell me more

P: (reads alert) "ok, that's cool. So I'm 59, typically people older than me, and that little arrow that indicates the more information, I'd say about 80% of people won't know what that is. So my suggestion is perhaps is mmm say 'click here for more information' or just have it like this (open)"

P: (reads other insurance) So the only way, to my knowledge, that you can get medical coverage is through a spouse or parent if you're a certain age, so how would you get coverage through a significant other?

M: What do you think?

P: Well if you're referring to same sex marriage, it's still a spouse. So not a significant other. I haven't the faintest idea, and I would have to Google it because I'm confused.

M: So if you were on this page, you wouldn't know how to answer it, and you would have to google it, is that right?

P: Yes, because to me, health insurance is through a spouse or parent, so how could you legally get it from a significant other, and what is a significant other?

M: So it would be helpful if it defined what it meant by significant other?

P: Right

M: I know it varies by state, but to your poing it's not clear

P: Yes. (on other information page) I would put the "why we ask this information" underneath the yes/no...because it's confusing...because I'm getting ready to answer (opens)...I guess it doesn't matter. In my mind, I'd want to answer and then find out why. Because it's distracting....Oh this is excellend information about 'giving us your health insurance information for these reasons' and the reasons are very good. (reads)..."yeah, this is terrific information" I was just having this conversation with one of my friends and we couldn't find it. 

P: So my friend is retiring from the VA, and she was told unless she was 100% she couldn't use VA health care, was asking at the VA, and couldn't get a solid answer...ok and because of where this is positioned, now I have to go back up and read the question (reads)

P: That's good that you say where the DBN is and that it's an 11 digit number.

M: Do you feel like you'd be able to find it?

P: Yes

P: (on location): So Alvin C. York is the one I use, I suggest that, I put that it's in Murphyborro

M: So put the location, because the others have locations?

P: Correct, especially if someone just moved here

P: Ok good that there's information about the foreign medical program or Veterans living abroad, that's very good.

P: (reading) "Do you want VA to contact you to schedule your first appointment?" Yes.

P:(review-opens Veteran information) I'm reviewing my information. ok awesome

M: Tell me what's awesome

P: That it's in bold what I put so that it's easy to see, and the disclaimer about criminal penalties if your information is correct.

M: So before you push that (submit application button) I'm going to ask a couple of questions if that's alright?

P: Sure

M: First of all, what did you think? What was your overall experience with this? 

P: It was good. It was good.

M: Anything stand out to you in particular?

P: Um Just the things I had mentioned.

M: As far as length, how did it seem to you?

P: It was good, it didn't seem long or unreasonable. It was good

M: Question on this page, let's say you were reviewing it, and you saw that you made a wrong selection on your disability rating, how would you change that?

P: ahh, let me go back up, (reading "go back to edit compensation information") ahha so there's a hyperlink (reading) I would click on that and change it.

M: And what do expect to happen when you click there?

P: It gets fixed.

M: Ok, did it to what you expected? or was it different?

P: Yes... it took me back to the original page, I'll change, I'll select "yes, for a service-connected disability rating of up to 40%"

M: And before you click on anything, what do you expect to happen when you push continue?

P: "Then I'm going to have to fill out a longer form."

M: Ok, tell me more...about your expectation

P: "Oh this is gonna take me a few more minutes. Darn it, but it's ok because any Veteran filling this out, they want to fill it out. So they're not going to be upset. It just is what it is."

M: Sure, ok now since your accurate selection is made (greater than 50%) and I'm going to ask you a question on the next page.

M: (blue alert) When you got to this page, can you tell me a little bit more about what you were thinking?

P: Um. Well, (sighs) "I would kind of want to know why...well...some people would want to know why we ask fewer questions. Does that even need to be said, do you even need to. Because people that have anxiety are going to freak out about that.

M: Tell me more about that

P: "Because there's people who are even more analytical than me, will say 'ask fewer questions'- does that mean it's going to get screwed up? People will go into a whole hamster wheel. I just wouldn't even say that you're going to ask fewer questions."

M: What about you? What was your feeling?

P: "Well I don't feel it's necessary, we can ask you fewer questions, I don't need to know that. (reading) 'We'll confirm that your information when we receive your application.' Maybe to say we'll send you a confirmation email, that would be nice. Trust but verify." ...Instead of disability pay, I would say disability rating. Because then you'd have to show a disability pay chart, and that opens up a whole other thing. So I would change the word 'pay' to 'rating.'

P: or I don't know (reading again). Um yeah, so that's my feedback on that.

M: You can go to the next page

M: On the next screen there's the green box on the top, and you had already talked a bit about this. On this page, did you see the alert up there (reading). Was that something that stood out to you?

P: No

M: Does it look familiar to you?

P: No

M: I noticed you had glossed over it

P: Yeah

M: And now that you're seeing it, what do you think?

P: Again, I'm not a fan of it saying it's a shorter application. 

M: That concludes the interactive part, now I'm going to ask about the overall experience.

M: Let's say you're going to help your friend apply, and you just applied and had this short form experience, in your own words how would you explain the short form experience to them?

P: Oh that it's super easy to fill out.

M: ok, and how would know, if you were helping a friend, to help them prep, to know if they'll have a the short form or not. 

P: A prep?

M: How would they know, say if they want to fill out an application and they're not sure how long it will take, and you're able to say, if you have a certain circumstance, then you'll get a shorter application.

P: So if you have a 50% or higher, you get a shorter application.

M: So tied to your disability rating.

P: Yes, but then if they say "why?" I'd have to say I don't know because there isn't a technical explanation. Cause people are going to think they're missing out in some kind of way. Because our status gets evaulated every few years, and some people actually get less disability once it's reviewed. I just don't feel it's necessary to say that. It opens up a whole can of worms. Well what information do they not need?

M: If you don't mind take a guess as to why.

P: I haven't the faintest idea

M: Fair enough. That's all of my questions.

_thank you and goodbye_

