# P2

**Full form (control), screenreader, computer**

Please note: these are not verbatum notes, except where indicated by quotes

M= Moderator

P= Participant 2

S= Screen reader

T= Screen reader tech support

_recording accepted_

M: Let's say that you are going to apply for VA health care for the first time, walk me through what you'd do once you got here.

P: I might arrow a couple of times

M: Sure feel free to interact with the page as if it was going to be your real circumstance

P: I'm just using arrow keys (S: read intro page)

M: I'm curious what you're thinking after you just went through this. What's your initial impression?

P: I was just reading down through the instructions and now I'm thinking, I wish it'd give me a sign in button or a start button. I use Microsoft edge and have been in love with it for a couple years, but rapidly falling out of love with it because it refreshes, whether I want it to or not, and puts me at the bottom of the page. Right now I'm just looking for a start button, but it did say if I signed in, then I could save my work, but I haven't yet found that option.

M: The option to sign in?

P: Right.

M: Curious, not going to have you use it today, but do you have a va.gov login?

P: Yes, I do. I use Myhealthevet

M: T, do you have some insight on why that start the application wasn't appearing?

T: So jaws has a buffer it uses, bascially tells the page to stop moving, so that it sn't refreshing, but sometimes with a big page it will freeze. So when it said "progress bar indeterminate, that told me that the page needed to be refreshed. 

M: Before we get too specific with directions, if this were your real scenario, and you had to do this, and we weren't here, what would be your next step? I know you're looking for that sign in button. 

P: Well if I knew it was a button, I'd look for that, but I would probably keep reading.

M: Ok, why don't you do that, we have time. 

P: (S reading) Back to the top

P: (at bottom) See I didn't like that at all

M: Tell me about that

P: Because it dropped me out of, after I read all that stuff, it told me there should be a button. And if I wasn't paying attention, I wouldn't have known that I got dropped out of that content area. I would think that button.. I'm going to click B for button to see something. (S reading). I have yet to find the start button.

M: This will be the last time, I'm going to ask you to pause in a certain section.

P: You want me to read down? (S reading)

M: Within this section, there should be a link, let's see if it reads it (S reading)

M: That would be if you want to sign in, the next one should be if you don't want to sign in. That's the one, you can select it.

M: ok, so now you're in the health care application, and I'm going to have you go through it as if it was your real application. If anything stands out, please let me know. I'll cut in if I have questions.

P: ok (S reading)

P: I shouldn't have that on there again, usually I would hit E and it take me to the first field which would be my name, and there's no edit box. That's annoying. It's forcing me to read through all this crap again. 

M: Yeah I hear you, did it go back? I'm wondering if it took you to the previous page again. Is it reading the same thing?

P: Yeah, I assumed it had changed the screen. 

M: Yeah it did. ok, let's try it again, I don't know why that happened.

T: Hit insert, esc. (S= screen updated) Now do your E for edit.

P: ok why is doing that, because I don't normally have to do that on this computer.

T: It's just not refreshing late enough in the process. It's being wonky.

P: Is this normal wonky? or because we're in this demo?

T: It could be because zoom and it are competing for bandwidth.

P: Oh ok. (begins filling in form)

S: 19, 19, 19, 19 (repeating)

P: So I have a question, can I type a date here?
 
M: You should be able to type in the year

S: edit spin box

T: crtl a to select all and delete

P: I'm going to intervene, I am an expert, I really am, and this whole thing, if you're testing this to how this should work, that spin button is just annoying. I understand on mobile devices, but on computer with a screenreader or keyboard, that spin box is just annoying. I should've just already been highlighted and I should've been able to type over it. I know what's it's doing.

M: I hear you, thanks for pointing it out.

S: Reads Feedback survey pop up

M: To me as a screen reader user, that's another annoying thing

P: (after screener questions- on repeat name once actually start application) Apparently...so what do we think? 

M: Tell me what you're thoughts are and then I'll give a bit of insight on what's going on on my end.

P: It was like I was dropped back to the previous step. Was I?

M: A little background on this. It has a pre-screener before it gets you into the application so it asks for your name, dob, ssn, once in the application it fills that in for you. So you are now in the part of the application...and I hear that that is a bit confusing.

P: Yes it was..it's fine if this was a read only field, but it's asking me again.

P: See I don't understand 1 of 6. I already entered my name. Unless it's back up there.

M: So you're saying, you already entered your name, why is on step 1? Did I capture that right?

P: No, I entered my name, then it dropped me to ssn, but it's still saying step 1 of 6, so I don't know if it's actually changed the page or if my continue button just didn't work.

M: Noting, not clear on the steps

M: And same thing on this page.

P: Why is it asking me this again?

M: Yeah...

P: So it's working? It's not just me?

M: We'll use working in loose terms, but yes, it's working.

P: I hit the continue button twice now

M: Really? and it left you on the birthday?

P: Yep that's what I was kinda asking. 

M: Oh, I apologize, I thought you meant about the birth date itself. 

P: This could be a microsoft edge thing, because sometimes it doesn't like hitting buttons two times in a row. 

M: It did take you to the new page now, but it's weird...you had to hit it three times?

P: Well I hit Enter that time (on the continue button) because space wasn't working. That's not necessarily your form. Like I said edge, they keep breaking it.

P: I would make one suggestion here, if we're still on step 1 of 6, and I know we don't like long forms, because I do some web development too. But if it's going to be step 1, it really all ought to be on one page. This hitting continue every time you... one field at a time is unnecessary.

M: Can you speak a little more on how it would change your experience if it was all on one page vs. having to push continue to the next one. 

P: Well for one thing that continue button may not have given me that trouble. The other thing is, it's confusing, at least to me, because when you hit that continue button, and I'm used to filling out these forms all the time, when you push continue, you go to the next step. Here, it's not changing, it's just bringing up another field. So here, it's not changing steps, it's changing fields. and here again, I don't think having 10 fields, all on one, where you can just tab, tab, tab and keep going, I don't see where that's a problem. This may be because we're doing mobile, but sometimes it may not work as well on computer as it does on mobile.

M: You're on desktop right now?

P: Yes

P: That's unusual, can't remember the last time I saw a form with 3 lines for a street address, but ok.

S: Step 4 of 6

P: ok, so there we changed. Now that, I would've just had all on that on one form page, but that's just me.

M: Question on this page (military history), I noticed that it went to the bottom and then the top, can you walk me through what was going on there?

P: I have no idea, I just knew it was at the bottom of the form. The step before that Jaws left me at the top of the form, after I did continue it left me at the bottom, I could tell that so I went back to the top, but I don't know if any coding could fix, jaws has quirks. 

M: But it took you to the bottom, so that's what I wanted to check. 

P: and that form...maybe the other form when I was putting in dates..I was cold to start. This time the dates worked fine. As long as you can type a date in, people may not know that, I didn't know that. But that was fine. 

M: ok, well noted.

M: Did you mean typing the year, or also the day.

P: All of it, remember before, it might have been because I was monkeying around with it, but this time when I tabbed to it, it just let me change it without blanking anything oout, that's what I'd expect it to do. That first time, was probably my fault.

M: ok, we can still check on that.

P: (on continue) Here again, I don't know where I am. Here's that continue thing where it didn't continue ( on pushing space)...so I pushed enter again, and it went. - that's probably an edge or a jaws thing. It's annoying, but I'm getting used to it, in general, not just on this.

(on financial disclosure page) S: reads list of qualifying factors

P: Do you want a suggestion? ...If for example, I had checked any of those boxes (military history checkbox list) this should've come up with this...well I'm assuming this is an exception thing. So if I'd checked any of those boxes, I could see bringing this up, but since I didn't, I shouldn't really have to read this again. It really should've skipped that.

(in regards to financial disclosure) P: I guess you want me to do this?

M: If this was the real circumstance, what do you think you would do?

P: I would probably do it because it saves time.

M: Save time, can you tell me more.... what do you mean by, "it saves time"?

P: I just have a feeling that down the road, they're going to want that information anyway (laughs)

M: Oh, I see. So you're thinking, and correct me if I'm wrong, if you provide it now, then it's now it's done, but if you don't provide it now, you'll probably have to provide it later any way.

P: Right, that's correct...that's a government thing.

P: (Marital status question) I'm going to assume there's a logical reason you guys ask that question, but to me, you're either married or you're not. Maybe not because of spousal support or something.

S: reads gross annual income section

P: (scoffs)

M: Tell me what you're thinking there

P: That should be changed, because on your tax thing or anytime I'm doing something gross and net, one has nothing to do with this other one. You want to do the farm thing, that should just be in other or something. Because that confused me, net would just be after taxes or gross would be before taxes. Since we're talking normal financial stuff, to me that's what it is, I don't know. 

P: See now we have other, so not sure I get that at all.

M: So if you were filling this out in real time, what would you do to try to understand what you're supposed to be putting in.

P: Well it explained it to me, I just didn't get why it was calling it what it was calling it. It tells me what it means by net, it's just not what net means to me. 

P: (amount paid for burial expenses) When that says required, does that mean I need to put a 0 in there?

M: Before I say anything, what's your take on it?

P:  I would say I have to put something in there, that's why I put a 0.

M: Yep, you would get an error if you didn't put anything in there.

P: I don't know if it might be better to have 0 in there by default, because I'm not sure everyone would know to do that. Then again I'm not that bright, so maybe everyone else can figure it out. 

M: That's good feedback.

S: (VA facility page) reads through page, goes through it a second time

P: Not sure what that...that's not very descriptive (it didn't read, select a VA facility)

M: Can you tell me more about it's not very descriptive?

P: VA facility seems like it's going to give you a place where I'm going to go, and this one, let's just say, (S: reads affordable care act) Let's leave that unchecked,  I would put that somewhere else...now it may be somewhere else... right there (minimum essential coverage).

P: Now is that the way it is on a real screen? Or is that just the way jaws buffered it and is reading it to me?

M: It is the way it is on all of the screens.

P: Well I would move that, honestly. You're confusing, it doesn't belong in that particular spot. 

P: You have VA facility, now this one makes sense 

M: Let me make sure I capture this right. You're expecting to put in a location, but it's asking about min. essential coverage. Right?

P: Right, it's asking me that question in between VA facility and VA facility, that's out of place. It needs to be somewhere else. That confused me. I was expecting the first field I come to to be this one (VA facility state selector)

P: Yeah that field (affordable care act) was sorely out of place.

P: (on confirmation page) There's that thing I was talking about before.

M: What's that? 

P: If I don't put it now (financial) they'll ask me later, right there is the later part (If we need you to provide more info...)

M: You called that one.

M: So you got here, if you were applying, what would you expect to happen next? 

P: Wait for someone to contact me.

M: And what's your expectation, how are they going to get in contact with you.

P: I'll be honest, I wasn't paying much attention

M: That's ok, even just what you think instinctually, what would you guess or what would you want?

P: I would guess I'm going to get a letter.

M: In the mail or email..?

P: In the mail.

M: Overall what do think of this experience of applying for health care? 

P: Actually that form was pretty painless. As far as the information requested. And screenreader-wise I didn't have many complaints about it. Just those couple things. That one place, that radio button I told you (affordable care act).

M: That's a universal issue, appreciate you pointing that out.

M: If you had to say what was the best part about it, what would you say?

P: Really the whole site for me was accessible, there wasn't anything I couldn't read, there might of been some of it that I would've done differently, but at the end of the day, I could get that application submitted, by myself, pretty painlessly vs. if we had to have this in writing, you know I live by myself, I would've had to find someone...and also, it wasn't a long drawn out process. I would say, I'd be pretty happy with that. It was a lot simpler than I had back in 2011.

M: What would be the most negative of this experience?

P: Just anything that I might have mentioned. You see, I can't really blame anything on it, we're on zoom, that whole first part, normally I don't have to do that. I would say, if someone tests this in real life and that was the case, the page needs to be made smaller. Maybe get rid of some of the extra stuff. One of my complaints was, and is not really the case now, but with a screen reader, it's the left to right, top to bottom. With eyes, you can put your eyes anywhere on that screen that you want to. Now I don't have any complaints because I can hit H and it goes to the heading, which is what your eyes would do, you know, so I didn't have to read all that junk. Now I did the first time because I wanted you to hear it, but normally, if it was just me, I would've hit H, and if it wouldn't have taken me to that level 1 heading immediately, I probably would've been aggravated, but it did, so I like how that's laid out. All websites should be like that, and nowadays most of them are.

P: You need all the navigation stuff, I just want a way to skip over it, unless I need it, which is what it did, so that was fine.

M: Now say you have a friend, another Veteran, who is about to start applying for health care, in your own words, how would you speak about this process, and is there any advice you would give?

P: I'd make sure they have that information like they told you in the beginning, you're either going to need it while filling out this application, or they're going to come back and ask it for you later. You know your income, they're going to base it on that no matter what. Unless they weren't a computer user, I'd tell them to start here cause this is easy.

M: That concludes my questions, do you have any other thoughts or questions?

P: Not really

_thank you and closing_









