# P3
**Authenticated, immediate alert, 50% or greater disability rating, computer**

Please note: these are not verbatum notes, except where indicated by quotes

M= moderator

P= Participant 3

_recording accepted_



M: Do you currently with the VA or elsewhere?

P: Yes, both...applied right when I got out of the military. I believe it was in person, got hurt, got disability rating, and went to the hospital.

M: We're going to have you logged into a fake account.

M: Let's say you need to apply for health care, and you come to this page, what would you do?

P: I'm sorry you said, if I'm trying to get health care?

M: Yes

P: I would click on (button) "start the health care application"

P: I help other Veterans to apply for health care.

M: As you go through, feel free to point things out to me that you commonly encounter doing that.

P: (immediate short form alert) ok so this obviously because I'm higher rated, so I guess it'd go to a different field. Most of the time when I get here, nobody is rated for anything.

M: Tell me more about, "you guess it's because you're rated" what specifically?

P: "That there's less stuff to fill out, I'm already in the system. Less stuff to fill out."

M: Makes sense

P: (reads on race, ethnicity, origin page) "Filling out a shortened... (then proceeds to checkbox, doesn't open green alert)

P: "hmm"

M: What was the "hmm"

P: Nothing, just reading, "are you eligible for Medicaid" I would also add a question there, because some people might not know if they're eligible for Medicaid, maybe open a questionnaire to help and be more proactive.

M: Great idea

P: (on facility page) Martinsburg is not on here, why would Martinsburg not be on here...Martinsburg is the actual VA health system that services, now Martinsburg is in West Virgina, but it should definitely populate even if you hit up Maryland because there's a huge portion of Maryland that would go to Martinsburg.

M: Ah because it's closer to go to WV than it is to go to somewhere else in MD?

P: Right. Most of the people in this region or west would go to Martinsburg.

M: Getting your opinion, do you think it would be helpful if you could search by location and then it show within a certain radius, say 50, 100 miles, whatever...as opposed to doing it by state?

P: Well both I think options, because some people are not going to be able to do a radius thing, that could be overwhelming. But having both or put in zip code and then put a radius or something and get medical centers in there. I would like that personally. Another thing, DC isn't in here either or Virginia.

M: Curious since we're on the topic, what does that radius look like for you? 50, 100

P: Yeah for me, I'm basically equidistand from Baltimore and Martinsburg, it's close to 40 miles to get to a big medical center. Now Ft. Didric is maybe 10 miles, but you can't do all the services.

M: How was that overall experience for you?

P: I mean it's smooth, it's so much smoother than it was before. When you had to do by paper or showing up.

M: And you got that short form experience, what was that like for you?

P: Um it's much easier, you don't have to put in as much information so it's not as time consuming, it seems a lot easier.

M: So let's say you're helping someone, as you do, who was about to start applying for health care and they were unsure what the experience would be like, and you didn't know if they'd get the long form or the short form, how would you explain that in your own words, you are embarking on this health care journey, how would you prep them.

P: Well ultimately va.gov is the ultimate resource for Veterans. They can manage their benefits, the VA is trying to combine ebenefits and myhealthevet, it's supposed to be one, but there's still misinformation and multiple logins that the VA could consolodate to just put it all on va.gov. I know that's the plan, but to expedite that process in general. I'm a big advocate of va.gov. I want people to know how to fish, it gives them a lot more control over their benefits and manage it. The problem right now is that a lot of Veterans who needs benefits are older Veterans and ultimately I end up having to do this with them because they're not comfortable using this. Now if we're talking about post 9/11 Veterans I think this is going to make things easy, but until the older Veterans transition, that group I imagine will continue to have difficulties.

M: In your experience helping people, is there any section specifically that you've noticed is difficult for people to get through?

P: The registration and verifying idenity is the hardest part. That's a big barrior of entry. It'll take days and days. It's very overwhelming.

M: And with the health care application.

P: The health care application, once you've registered, it's simple, it's straightforward. Once you're in the system, the VA system works really well, it's that getting there in order to access it that sometimes..

M: Just thinking about today, what would you say was the most positive/negative?

P: Positive would be the ease in which it was able to be completed

P: Negative, I don't know, I don't really know what it'd be...eh I couldn't scroll down to get the United States.

M: Was anything confusing or were you left with any questions.

P: No it says right here that they'll respond to you in a week. I think the followup is really where people will have questions. If I get denied, I'm assuming that email will come with similar notifications- if you disagree with our decision, these are the steps you can take. But I think it's pretty complete for everything we've done. 

M: You mentioned email, what's your expectation on how you'll be contacted? Email? Phone? Mail?

P: My expectation would be that I'd get it by email first and then by mail in typical VA fashion.

M: And what would be your preference?

P: I'm fine with it being email or on my profile, the va.gov should have lifetime documents to track there. They should be there, I should get an email, and I could download it if I want to keep it offline.

M: Do you have any questions?

P: Nope

_Thanks and closing_




