# P4
**Self-disclose, 50% or greater disability rating, iphone**

Please note: these are not verbatum notes, except where indicated by quotes

M= moderator

P= Participant 4

_recording accepted_


M: Do you currently have VA health care?

P: Yes, I do.


M: What was that process like?

P: January 2019, I went through the ides?, I got medical retirement while still on active duty, everything was really fast. Don't know how to answer that.

M: Do remember if you filled it out on paper..

P: I filled out a lot of stuff, can you be more specific about which form.

M: Yes, I'm going to send a link, you can let me know if it looks familiar or not.

M: Does it look familiar or not?

P: Not sure on this page, I don't see the form.

M: Let's say you were new to applying for health care and you were told you could get to the application from this page, walk me through what you'd do.

P: I'd read this, if I was new, I wouldn't sign in to check my application status. ..."oh gross income interesting" .. I was never asked for that interesting

P: I'd skip over that. So I would sign in to start mine.

M: You have a va account

P: I do. I was encouraged to make one to keep up with my evaluationn.

M: How is it?

P: It was fine, the website is actually pretty easy to use...when it works.

M: Let's say you wanted to complete it without signing i 

P: (reads link) actually that makes sense, if I was new, I might not have an account

M: Start filling it out

P: I have an autofill, I'll probably use that. It just did my name, just that.

P: It's a good learning experience for me too using it on the phone.

M: Yeah how is it so far?

P: I prefer it..well I prefer it because my computer is so old. Usually I'll connect my bluetooth keyboard. Just doing it by touch right now.

P: "oh ok"

M: Can you tell me more on that previous page (blue short form confirm) you said "oh ok" what were you thinking there?

P: Well I'm trying to fill this out with the mindset of the scenario you brought up that I don't have any coverage yet, so when it asked about preexisting service connection.. I always think about why something is there. I'm connected 100%. It's interesting it's there. I'm confusing the difference, because when I went out, they evaluated me and then I already had appointments set up. It was all one thing. I guess this apply for health care, I got to skip it because it happened in my exam. So never had to do this.

P: "So I'm just reading this, this is interesting.(short form step 3 of 4 alert) So because my rating is 50% or higher, it's one of our eligibility..we don't have to ask you..oh that's why I didn't have to...wow I find that interesting. That could be confusing to people, I don't understand that. Because to me, if you're service connected, doesn't that put you in the system for health care? or you still have to...I guess it's none of my business, but I guess for me, I would just pass that up."

P: and then am I eligible for Medicaid? I don't know.

M: So what would you do?

P: I would actually...I take that back. I think I am. For example I can go to a civilian dentist, and I'll get that bill or statement that shows what they billed the VA, which is really interesting, and then I remember seeing that Medicaid covered some of the things.

P: To answer your question, I'd stop here...don't see a save so I'd open another window and see what the criteria is to be medicaid eligible. I'd research, as opposed to asking someone, because I've received wrong information. And then come back here and answer the question. 

M: Do think providing additional information on this page would be useful?

P: Yeah, I was a medic, so I helped people with things like this. And a soldier that has a TBI could get them frustrated. So I had an upper lip when I saw this question. I'm trying to get VA health care, to me these are two separate things. Why is it asking me this?

P: See insurance, can we deal with this crap later? Because if you're already straight and you have insurance and everything is covered, then why would you enroll in here unless you're trying to save money or get different care. I just think these kind of questions-the medicaid, insurance stuff should be asked after. 

M: Like after you got setup?

P: Yeah cause this kind of information isn't eligibility criteria is it? No.

P: (on other insurance) so I say yes and then they want to know all this crap, so I'd just say no and skip it. Yeah like they want the group code so i'd say no because I know you can fix it later, maybe other people don't know that.

M: Is that from personal experience? 

P: Yeah and sometimes I haven't been right. I remember sometimes I didn't finish that day because of all the annoying questions.

P: (schedule first appointment) Glad they put that there...so anytime someone offers help or assistance, I instantly felt warm, oh nice, "you want to help me with this" feeling. Especially with others like me with a psychological issue.

P: (review) I like the "why we ask this information" because the more the VA teaches Veterans, the easier it'll be on them. The more educated I became, the less effort it took others to help me. So I like that it explains without going to another website.

M: How is this page? (review)

P: For me, I like how it's collapesed and sectioned off, I like that my answer is bold. This page is user friendly, aesthetically pleasing. I go strgiht to the bold, without getting frustrated with everything else on the page.

P: (does change birth date within review edit) that was easy, worked as expected

M: How was the overall experience?

P: Actually, even with the parts that seem irrelevant, now, it was really fast. Granted I was using autofill, but even if I had to type it in, it was straightforward and not complicated at all.

M: good or negative stand out?

P: I like the "why we ask" - just wish they would've put that under the medicaid thing, if they put a little dropdown about what makes you elgibile for medicaid. The other good thing is how easy it is to review and edit before you submit. 

P: As far as the negative, nothing really

M: I'm going to ask you to do one more thing on this page, if you don't mind. Let's say that compensation is wrong.

P: There's a link so I'd go back, there's a link so I'd go back and change it, and then continue. Oh so now that I did that it wants more information.

M: Let's pause, what are you thinking?

P: Well that's ok, because I read earlier, because this website provided the information earlier, now I know, explaining that if you're less than 50% service-connected you would have to provide that income data and military service. So if the person is reading the information, it shouldn't be a surprise. For me it'd be pretty easy because I have these dates memorized.

M: I'll have you make your original selection and continue.

M: (blue short form confirm screen) I noticed that you went through it really quickly. Did anything come to mind?

P: "It was really straightforward." I'm already used to it. but then goes and looks at the more info

P: Looks like bs. interesting. So I'm just thinking, what's the difference, but I'm spoiled because I got 100%. What's the difference (50% vs. 40%). (more info compoent- sounds like fluff). Not saying it's the wrong answer, I'm just saying maybe they have to ask that of everyone. Like something for my school I had to keep filling out the same information. It's like you all know that. Yeah it gave me a mediocre answer.

P: (see alert second time through) Shorter? Does that mean I'll have to do it later.

P: (opens green alert) "oh look at this, they're educating me. I'm filling out the shortened form because I have a rating of 50% or higher."

M: Is this the kind of answer you were looking for back on that blue one.

P: No, well, (reading) still doesn't answer it because I want to know why someone with 50% or more doesn't have to give that information while someone with 40% or lower does. I'm genuinely curious.

P: (green alert) this just answered why I get to fill out a shortened application, because I have 50% or more.

M: But it doesn't help you know why 40% doesn't.

P: Yeah.

M: This shortened exeperience, let's say you have a friend who is about to apply for health care, how would you explain how the application for health care was like.

M: Oh I've done that plenty of times. So the way I'd explain it. Like when I was helping other Veterans with their school stuff, like I would go through the process myself and then tell them, but mostly it's so self-explanatory. I would tell them heads up, they're going to ask you questions about your income or military service. For example, I don't readily have the health insurance. Because we can get lazy....it's pretty self-explanatory.

M: and what do you think about the short form that you experienced today?

P: "Yeah I think it was, in fact, one of the shortest applications I ever went through. Where was this when I was...super easy and didn't take time at all."

M: If you were to submit, what would you expect?

P: oooh 10 days that's fast, contact by email, this is actually really good information. It does a really good job.

M: How do you prefer to be contacted

P: email

P: (after asking about the purpose of the resaerch) "I don't know how you guys could make it any easier, it's pretty easy."

P: Just that one thing about Medicaid, I don't know walking around with that info so if that's required they should put more information about it.



_thanks and closing_








