# P8
**Full, computer**

Note: Participant sometimes uses a screen reader for long content (not due to vision), but didn't use it for this session. 

Please note: these are not verbatum notes, except where indicated by quotes

M= Moderator

P= Participant 8


_recording accepted_

M: Do you currently have VA health care?

P: Yes

M: Do you remember that process of how you got it?

P: Vaguely, I got into the system and didn't use it for a long time and then got back into it a couple of years ago.

M: Curious if you'd applied online or not and if this would be a familiar experience or not.

P: I think I applied online, I was living in Cincinnati and going there and kind of signed up online when I got to Jacksonville, I live here now. I'm using VOC (Vocational)rehab. So I got setup to see all of my doctors down here and setup the VOC rehab.

M: Feel free to let me know if this looks familiar or not.

P: ok

M: According to my intake paperwork, it says that you are screenreader user, is that right?

P:Yeah, it's not like a requirement for me, it's just that I get distracted easily, so I use a reader to digest the knowledge, not for a vision thing.

M: That makes sense, feel free to do what you'd normally do for this study. If you'd use it, feel free. 

M: link in zoom chat, if you do decide to use screenreader, please make audio available for us to hear as well, if that's ok. And if you don't want to use it that's ok too, it's your choice. 

M: How long have you been using a reader?

P: For about two years. I just finished my associates. I hadn't been to school in a long time, a lot of the educational resources and books are online so it's easier to use a reader.

(share screen)

M: Do you plan to use a screen reader?

P: Just depends if I have to read all of that, because if I have to read all of that, then maybe, but if it's just pecking around, I probably won't have to use it.

M: Sure, feel free to use as you want, and you don't have to make a decision right now.

M: Ok, to get us started, let's say that you don't have VA health care, and found out you could apply online, walk me through what you'd do once you got here.

P: Well I'm kind of looking for apply, so I guess I'd click this blue button (sign in to check your application status button) but it says sign in to check your application status. There's no button...

M: You're looking for?

P: Yeah I thought there'd be a big blue button that says "start application" vs. the sign in...I mean there are steps to get started, so I start with reading through all these steps...(reading) start your application, so I assume that I'd choose one of these two (sign in to start your application button or start your application link). 

M: Do you have a VA login?

P: I should, but I couldn't tell you my login, I'd have to look it up. haha

M: No problem we're not going to sign in today, let's continue in the application as if you were going to sign up, but without signing in.

M: You're here. Go ahead and start filling it out, if you notice anything tell me, and I'll stop you if I have any questions. 

P: It asked for a middle, but it's not required

M: What were you think ing when you got to that last page? (Veteran name in application, after screener)

P: That it kind of looked exactly like the page before it, it's kind of redundant, but I guess I'm used to it.

M: Oh really? from what?

P: Like the VA or anything medical related, even Amazon. Give your information billing info and mailing it's redundant. 

P: I do find it kind of odd that it has the progress bar and we're still on step 1 and the blue progress bar hasn't moved and I've clicked like 6 times. It's different, not bad, but I'd expect it to advance each time I click continue.

M: You said different, not bad, can you explain that?

P: I've done tons of training in my last job and to me if I was an older person, I'd think I'm doing something wrong, but it's not changing. But it's not bad, because nothing has gone wrong and I can still fill out information, so I'd have to assume it's ok.

M: What's your expectation on how long it's going to be?

P: I'd say I wouldn't have an expectation or that it's going to be long, because I've already pushed continue 3-4 times and it hasn't...even at school I like to know how many questions a test is when I get into it. Like am I answering 20 or 60, because then you have an idea of how to regulate your time. Here, it hasn't told me how many pages I have to click through to get to the end.

M: making sure I capture you right, it doesn't provide you with any indication of how long or how many questions, right?

P: Right, I wouldn't know how many steps, even thought I've clicked 3-4 times, each step could be 1 question or 20 questions. It doesn't really tell you.

P: I always click to the bottom to see if I need the info, but so far it has been all the same.

P: (on birth sex question): I mean, not that it bothers me, but at this point, I'm kind of surprised they don't have an "other" or "non-binary."
 Just because, going to college right now, everything says like female, male, non-binary, or prefer not to say/choose, something like that.
 
 M: Yeah definitely.
 
 P: Prefer not to answer- that's what it'd normally say.
 
 P: (on address) Oh see, "is your home address same as your mailing address" just like I was saying with Amazon, so yes, yes it is.
 
 M: Right
 
 P: (on benefits page Yay I'm on step 2
 
 P: (on military service) See one question for step 2
 
 M: What were you thinking about right then.
 
 P: Just like what we were talking about before.
 
 M: You called it
 
 P: Yeah it's kind of a crapshoot
 
 M: Which it is if it's not indicating
 
 P: I don't remember my start date, i mean it doesn't matter
 
 M: (on upload discharge papers) You don't have to upload, just curious if this was real, would you have that or have to stop to go get it?
 
 P: Like my DD214?
 
 M: mmhmm
 
 P: Um, I'd have to go...well I'm on the fence on that one, I'm sure I have a digital copy somewhere, but I'd have to go find it. I do have an electronic copy, but everything got moved so I have to go find it. I also have a scanner if I had to. I could do this, but it wouldn't be an immediate thing.
 
 P: Do you need me to upload a document?
 
 M: Curious, if this was real and you were signed in and could save it. Would you save it and then come back? or would you pause, go get it, and continue within same session?
 
 P: "I would definitely pause and go look for it. That's one thing I wish with the VA, I wish it was more streamlined, I wish that there was some kind of  way ...almost like ID.me or other things, where I could just use that, because there is somewhere a record of my dd214 or my disability rating and all that stuff, versus me always having to find my disability rating letter or an electronic copy of dd214. Because to me, if I were to complain, which I am, it doesn't make sense that the people that use those two things, don't have that readily available for Veterans who are trying to use the benefits that they have through the VA.

M: Makes total sense.

P: So here (financial disclosure page) I want to know what recently means. (Bullet list "recently discharged combat Veteran) It should say in parentheses what the threshhold should be.


M: Like how many years is considered recent?

P: Yeah that's what I mean, is it a year? Is it less than a year?

M: Yeah, makes sense. What's your assumption. 

P: I assume I don't fall under this, just assuming with the government, I'd guess 60-90 days or at most a year, because at a year, you're pushing it with "recently."

M: Noting that it's not clear.

P: Yeah. 

P: (selects yes to financial disclosure) See here, I would expect it to dropdown after click yes, as opposed to continue to the next page.

P: It's not bad, it's just adding another step when you're already here.

M: Yeah, good to hear your expectations, and as far as that page, overall do you have any thoughts. 

P: For me, I think it's about as straightforward as it can be, it's just kind of weird because I read all of that in terms of financial disclosure and then I click that, yes, and then it never asked about financial disclosure, and then I click continue and it asks me about household information. But I would think, that it'd immediately ask me for my household income. 

P: (clicks on yes to dependents to report, dropdown opens) See like that.

M: That's what you expected on the..?

P: Yeah, it asks me if I have dependets, I click yes, and the it immediately asks me for the stuff.

M: And this is what you thought it'd do on that financial page, right?

P: Right.

P: (on when did they become your dependent question) "See now this one, I mean it's... I don't want to say...I mean it is straightforward, but then it makes me stop and pause because it says what their birth date was and then it asks me when they became a dependent, and that's another thing that I really honestly couldn't remember when I put them in as a dependent to the VA, like I don't think I even have a document stating when I added them as a dependent. Like I remember it happening, like I think I talked to someone on the phone versus like getting a letter, like if it was a month or two after he was born or something like that, I don't really remember.

M: Makes sense, so if you were really filling this out, what would you do?

P: "Kind of panic, because like I said, I don't know where I'd get this information, I'd guess and put his birthday, but that might not be accurate." So I think for my second son it was pretty immediate. Because I was in school and someone said if you're planning to have any more kids, be ready to add them immediately to your thing because they're a dependent. Because with my first son, it was likely a good while before I added him into the system, it's not something I thought about, because I wasn't married in the military, I got married way after.

P: (on Veteran's other income amount) So this one always get me too. I get a stipend, like VA, like a month dollar amount, then from my disability and then I get a stipend from VOC rehab so I never know if this goes in here. And I don't necessarily think that's a form problem, it's jsut an organizational problem, because I never know when to add them together, when to not include my disability. Or if I do need to include this, because it says other income, so I would assume that I would add my VOC rehab in here, but I never really know.

M: Right...but it's not clear...So if you were really filling it out you would add the VOC rehab in but not the VA compensation, is that right?

P: Yeah only because that one is basically for my medical disabilities so it's to cover the medical side of it, so I don't really consider it an income. Whereas VOC rehab is a work program and an educational program so I do kind of consider it an extra income, it's what we use it for. So like I'm not working, my spouse works fulltime, so that's like my contribution. So that's why I'd consider it an other income.

M: I hear you, maybe we should be more clear on what to include.

P: Yeah and I mean it gets tough on the other hand, I've done this type of thing before, and you don't want to put too many entry blocks. I just wonder if this is important for someone. If I'm filling this out for medical reasons, is that other income important for someone. and if it is, do you have a line for VA compensation, VOC rehab. or GI bill, you'd have a million lines. Very user dependent. I don't know, "but like my complaint, when it comes to filling things out in terms of income with the VA, I've never really understood what they consider an income. In terms of compensation adn VOC rehab- which is what I consider an income. 

P: (on amount you or your spouse paid in non-reimbursable medical expenses this past year.) So this one right here, I don't feel like I'd have that readily available. Very user specific, but my wife deosn't use the VA for anything, so I wonder why they need to know that, like is it important to someone? Clearly since it's required, because I use both. Like I use the VA for my disability stuff, but I don't use them for like wellness visits or anything like that. That was always unclear for me, and I think some things changed, but i was told that anything related to my service-connected disability, I wouldn't pay for, but now because I provided my insurance card to them, because they asked for it, and now my doctor's visits and prescriptions, I'm now paying for it. Which I don't complain because I get that disability compensation so that's my assumption that I pay for it with that, but no one ever told me that that's the case. So that's what I'm saying, I don't understand what the outide of the VA has to do with me applying for medical benefits. 

M: So knowing what you know now, but still filling this out, what would you put in here?

P: A real answer is I'd ask my wife. Because she keeps track of that. I'm not working, in VOC rehab, so I think she has a website through her insurance where she can check that, so I'd probably get that number, because they're asking for it. But still not sure why they need it.

M: Do you think it'd be helpful on this page, if it gave maybe a reason why it's asking and how it'd be used.

P: Yeah I guess. Because to me it doesn't make sense why my outside medical, I know they're trying to integrate, so that anything they do wouldn't be conflicting with your regular doctors, but yeah. As my expectations as a Veteran, I don't know what any of my outside stuff has to do with the VA, because I kind of think anything with the VA is strictly based on what I did in my time in the military. 

P: (Amount your paid for educational expenses) "This one is kind of tough for me. Because like VOC rehab, not to complain about it all the time, but they hypothetically pay for everything, but then they don't. Like, the VOC rehab is a benefit for a Veteran, but the biggest problem with VOC rehab, is like when you're trying to get benefits from the VA, you have to fight for it, which I find asinine. They want to say VOC rehab is a benefit, but then I have a VOC counselor, and I don't expect the government to just give me anything I ask for, but if I need anything it's usually denied. Because they have a framework that they utilize. Trying to think of an example. Something stupid, but they provided me with this computer that I'm on now, because I didn't have a working computer to attend a class online, and my entire associate's was online because of covid. And they provided an older, cheaper computer for a technology program, and what I've had to do, because this computer got really slow, even to the point where it'd tell me it was going to kick me out when I'd be in a quiz or test because it didn't have enough RAM becuase it's so slow, and I reached out about getting upgraded RAM and was immediately denied, so I went ahead and paid for it and put the RAM in myself, because I can, but if it were someone else, they wouldn't know how to do that. Like if I didn’t have my wife and I had to live off the stipend I get from VOC rehab, I wouldn’t be able to live. So any extra expense is tough. And just like, we're required, I don't have a documentation from the VOC rehab, but my norton antivirus is going to expire in a couple of days, and it expired a year ago. When I initially got the computer it had norton on it, so after that year, I reached out to my counselor, and she’s said well that's on you, and had to purchase anything from that first year on.  Again that’s another expense that it doesn’t make sense that’s supposed to be fully covered in terms of my educational needs.


M: yeah these unexpected costs

P: Again, nothing to do with you guys, but when I see this (Amount paid for anything related to your own education…) it makes me think of this, and I have spent money out of my own pocket.

M: Yeah it is relevant because we are trying to connect all of the dots.

M: So then would you put that here?

P: I would, yeah, it’s asking for any expenses.

P: Again user specific

M: I’m sure there are other people encountering this

P: (on Medicaid) This doesn’t apply to me, but I don’t understand what Medicaid has to do with VA care, in terms of disability. I guess some people do utilize the VA for all of their care, but if I only see VA for my service-connected disabilities, I don’t know why that matters. Same thing with the insurance. Again, I didn’t understand why they asked me when I was there, but I just gave it to them, because that’s what I would do, but now they’re billing my insurance company. Which doesn’t make sense to me.

M: And they never explained it?

P: No, they asked for it, put it in, and then I started getting bills to cover my medical visits and medication, and I never understood because almost everything is service-connected. Except one of the conditions I get medication for isn’t listed, well, I’m not being compensated for it. This is a VA issue, not a this issue.

M: But more transparency it sounds like, like when I provide information, how does that affect my VA benefits, right?

P: Right, but again nothing to do with this program. More a VA thing. I don’t think I’ve ever had an explanation on how things work.

P: (on other insurance) See right here, do you have other insurance. Like yes, yes I do, see, but why?

P: This is exactly like what we’ve been talking about. Like all of the sudden they want my insurance information, and I’m not sure why. But again, I guess it might apply to some people, like if you use the VA as your primary health provider, but if it’s outside insurance, what does that have to do with VA?

P: (on affordable care act) I don’t know what this means. Because it says VA facility, (reading) “I’m enrolling to get coverage under ACA.

P: (expands more info) ok, I feel like it should say, I’m enrolling into VA health care, because like, when I read it, I thought it was acknowledging that I’m going to enroll into affordable care act.

M: As if it’s something separate?

P: Right, I read this (more info) and so I understood, but I think it should say, I’m enrolling into the VA care system to be covered under the affordable care act.

P: (location selection): I’m not sure, I’m not sure what to select. I’m not sure what it’s considered, I usually go to southside. So I’d just pick Jacksonville.

M: The one you were looking for isn’t there?

P: I mean, I don’t think so, from my understanding I’ve never heard it called either of these things. So I don’t know what CBOC is.

P: There is a find a location with the VA locator (opens) I don’t know if it works

P: (does search by zip code) ok see now there’s a VA2, see here’s the one I go to Jacksonville Southpoint Clinic. 

M: But then it’s not on that list…

P: Yeah, see here is the Jacksonville1, it’s not a bad thing I chose this one, it’s the main one, but I’ve never referred to the Jacksonville1. I didn’t even know there was a 2. So the rest are out of the way…Counting -there’s 4 in my area that I could go to, but the one I usually go to, isn’t listed here.

P: (clicks on preferred location and goes to its clinic detail page) Ok I think I’m getting too far from where we need to be. This is fine, but I don’t know, I’ve done this type of thing before, but if it was an older person, I think they might get lost and not find their way back. I would have figured, when I selected Southpoint, it would’ve made that selection. 

P: See (clicking back arrow) I just want to make sure I get back to the form (can’t click back anymore) oh it opened in a new tab, see I didn’t realize it opened up a new tab. It took me 3 clicks to realize I couldn’t get back.

P: (back on application) So I guess I’d choose Jacksonville 1, but that’s not the one I go to, I’ve been to that one one time when I first got here. You asked me when I first signed up, I think I went on the VA website, and did something like this, and then contacted the VA and went through my initial appointment to get settled down here: had to do that for:
To change my location and information for my service-connected disability and
To get setup for VOC rehab

P: at the time, so it was two birds with one stone kind of thing.

P: Ah ok, this is just a review. 

P: and like, I kind of thought about it, but didn’t say it when I did this (highlights “Do you want to provide your financial information?) but like is it, in terms of filling this out, does it matter? Like I was saying with the gender thing, some people might not select it, I don’t think it is required, but if I say no, does that change the application process? 

P: Because I guarantee you, and this is just me being cynical, but if I say no, then on my first appointment, they’re going to ask me for all this information. And then it’s going to be a person asking me or they hand me a tablet and I have to do this all over again. 

P: (clicks on more info component  on the other insurance) I don’t remember this being at the initial site where it asked me for it. 

P: It says for billing purposes only, this doesn’t affect the VA health care benefits you can get. See like then why do you need it?

P: To be honest with you, but like I wouldn’t have provided my health insurance if I knew they were going to use it like a normal outpatient. I would’ve just gone to see my normal primary care doctor, and just leave the VA out of the loop. Because I don’t really see them for my well visits, so if it doesn’t have anything to do with my service-connected, then what does the VA have to do with any of my outside stuff. 

M: Sure

P: I always thought that in regards to service-connected that was all in house, but it says they must bill outside. No one ever explained this to me, because I wouldn’t use the VA honestly, it would not be my choice.

P: I need to see if it’s applying to my deductible or not, because again, if it’s not, then I’m not going to see the VA. I’m not going to pay if it doesn’t apply for my deductible.

M: Before you submit, I have a couple of questions. One, if you push that submit button, what would be your expectation of what’s going to happen next?

P: Well I would hope that it will tell me something about your application is in process. It will say either we’ll reach out to you or you reach out to us, what’s the next step. If it is in process, where can I track like where my application is at. I’ve been on both sides, I’m not that old, but I still remember when the majority was done on paper with VA. So once you submit it, I have no clue, like how long it was going to take, where it was at, if someone threw it in the trash, if anyone was going to find it, and just sit there waiting. Versus now, a lot of times you can go on the VA website and see where it’s out. See if it’s being working on or pending. I feel like it’s pretty good, 50/50 on kicking back to ask for more information, like I didn’t upload my dd214, I would hope immediately, it would say something lille, here’s where you can go to upload your dd214 or you need to reach out to your VA location to supply this information. I don’t know if it recognizes your social security. Because any one off the street could apply, but not have dd214, so where in the process is it a requirement? But that would be my expectation, a what’s next page.

M: mmhmm 
What’s next
How someone will be in contact with you or you with them
Where you can check the status

M: Overall, how has this experience been applying for health care?

P: I mean, it was fairly straightforward, anything that like, I mean I don’t feel like I could not fill out this form. But again we discussed and touched on everything, where me specifically, I would pause, and it would either be a delay or I wouldn’t be quite sure when I got to certain steps. I know you can’t make this perfect, but some things you just don’t know about when you are filling out this form. Some things I didn’t have 100% confidence that I was providing the information they were asking for. Like this right here (clinic location), 1VA am I going to start, are they going to sign me up to go to this clinic? If I’m new, it didn’t say Southside. But maybe for my first visit, they’re trying to process everyone through here, but it wouldn’t be my choice because it’s a giant VA clinic and there’s no parking. You literally have to park on the street. This is a military town. This clinic literally has valet parking. 

P: Again nothing to do with this form, but if I have to select it, I don’t know what the CBOC is, and if I selected it not knowing, am I going to have to end up driving an hour away…it may seem like nothing, but that’s what going through my head. And then it gave me that hyperlink to find a location, and as soon as I put in my zip code it was right there, the one that I go to. So why is it not a selection. I always think of these things in terms of the older Veterans, because they’re not tech savvy and they’re used to a very structured way. If there are too many unknowns while filling this out, I mean I would still submit it, with the best hopes that I’m doing it correctly.

M: If you have a friend, how would you prep them?

P: Just because we went through this, but just fill it out to the best of your ability. Because they’re probably going to ask you all this on your first visit, so just get it in to get you into the system and get a placeholder, just fill out to the best of your ability. And if you need help contact me, even though I’m not a subject matter expert.

M: That’s nice of you. We’re getting close to being done. We’re going to be using this page. If you noticed you put the wrong home address, what would you do?

P: I know I’d hit the edit button, don’t know where it’s at. (clicks edit and changes) verify I have all the required fields. This is funny it says mailing address as the header, but then it asks is your home address same as your mailing address but where is your home address. I was wondering if I missed home address. 

M: Would that be the same thing if it said is your mailing address the same as your home address?

P: Sighs, I mean maybe, but almost feel like it’s the same thing. Only because it has the header of mailing address and then says home address, made me think, did I miss that section? Because I know how to answer it but if I’m scrolling here, I’d think man, did I not put it here?

M: and when you made that edit, was it like you expected it to or not?

P: I think that’s exactly how I expected it to work

M: If you notice there’s a mistake in your VA compensation, what would you do to change that. 

P: I wouldn’t know what to do.

P: I have one here (looking at mail), normally in a VA thing you get 2-3 pages on how to reach out. So if something was wrong, that’s what I would do, not go to the website, find a letter and call someone. I don’t have a lot of faith in the electronic system of the VA. In terms of resolution the website is a dead end. If I call can get an immediate response, but if fill out online, will have to wait to hear back. For me I get a better resolution talking to a person than online.

M: Do you have a specific example?


P: I know I’ve had to do that, like I know I used…There’s so many different websites, I never know where to go. I think to get my disability letter, I went on a website, and it took awhile to get something back. I could’ve called them, they send out mail all the time, and I know I could’ve had it in a day or two. That was a regret because it held up the process to applying for school. Online you are at the mercy of the process. If I called could’ve had it. Wish there was online access for electronic version of like dd214, etc.

M: I’ll have you look at VA Benefits, you don’t have to click. After you had the experience of changing your address, and now you are here. What are thinking when you see this one?

P: I would hope there’s an edit button like the address, but to me it feels like it’s going to kick me back to the main information screen, and a lot of online platforms do that, they kick you back and then have to go through every section again. I would hope I could just edit.

M: Go ahead and submit and take a look at this page and tell me your thoughts

P: Only because I’ve done this, I did process improvement as a job.

P: If you’re going to put print this for your records, then give me a print button. 

P: again thinking about my audience, as an older person, they might not know to go to the top right or CTRL P. They just don’t get that. So there should be a print button and a printer friendly printable version. If it doesn’t give me a printer friendly version, it’s going to print the header and footer. I right click and it doesn’t give me the option to print. Looks like it’s going to print the whole thing…including the feedback button haha and print in just black ink.

M: We had discussed the things you were hoping to know, just wondering if this page answers your questions or leaves you with more questions.

P: We’ll contact you by email- so that’s cool. I think it’s pretty good. It tells you what’s going to happen, some people might want to view the status, it says it’s going to call you. I like that they give you a contact number. With it being such a fast process I think it’s ok that there’s not a click here to check your progress. It’s an either or with VA, it’s like click here to check your eligibility and your status, but then this one is like we’ll call you, if we don’t call you, you call us. So it’s fine, but like…

M: You’d like to be able to do it yourself?

P: Yeah I think some people would like to be able to view their status instead of waiting for someone to call. I’ll tell you if someone doesn't contact me then it’s going to be a week or two before I realize that someone hasn’t called me. Then I’d have to find this. I’d probably save a digital copy, copy and paste in Word or something else and not just have a hard copy that I print out. I feel like this same information should be emailed to your primary email. Because that’s another way to have this information. Because then I’d have to call some random number or google VA main line, tell them I’m applying, then they put me to someone, and hopefully they answer the phone, and then tell me they don’t have access to that information. 

M: Your process and thinking is really good. 

M: You went through this whole process, what was the best part of this and what was the worst part of this.

P: Being that this is my second time doing this, I do feel like it was an easy process, I feel like, the negative is, just somethings aren’t clear. In terms of what it’s asking, on certain things, but in terms of what the VA is asking for on what they’re asking and why they’re asking. I get that you don’t want to have really long pages, but overall it does a good job of just getting the application in. 

P: But like you asked, if you have a friend doing this, I would never be 100% confident that what I gave the VA accurate information vs did I get a form in? But fear that if I didn’t give the right information- selected the wrong location, didn’t give the correct financial information, is that going to slow me down. I know if I need to correct this, it’s a pain. I feel like some of the questions need to be fleshed out a bit more. 



_thanks and closing_






