# P9
**Immediate alert, 50% or higher disiability rating, computer**

Note: Participant sometimes uses a screen reader for long content (not due to vision), but didn't use it for this session. 

Please note: these are not verbatum notes, except where indicated by quotes

M= Moderator

P= Participant 9


_recording accepted_

M: You arrive here with the intention of applying for health care for the first time, what would you do?

P: I would read this whole thing before starting anything. I’d make sure I have everything.
get my dd214, mines digital so probably just pull it up
Insurance cards

P: I’d read this, well to be honest it’d depend on which mood I was in. Might just come here and click on start the health care application button

P: but usually with the VA I like to read it because there’s a lot. (reads) 30minutes, yep we’re good there and then start the health application (then clicks start button)

M: This is the fake information, but keep going as if it was your real information

M: I heard when you first landed on this page, I heard you say “hmm” were there any thoughts?

P: I was reading this (immediate alert) and was like “ooh shorter application, that’s always better, but then I decided, it’s the VA and would rather just do it the long way. Because what happens, I do it the short way, and then they come back with oh you didn’t do this and then they kick you back, and I just wouldn’t want to go through that. So would rather just fill out the long thing.”

M: So say this was your real life, and you were right here and saw this, what would be your next step.

P: I would continue I guess, I guess I thought you had to click here to do the shorter one, is it going to automatically prompt me to do the shorter one? I don’t know if I like that. I guess I would just keep going then, and be like that’s what they’re telling me to do. It just makes me nervous because it’s the VA and one person could tell you what to do and then another person says no you did it completely wrong and then you have to spend, and it’s very emotionally taxing  to deal with the VA and seeing this I’m like oh there’s different processes for different people? Meaning maybe I’m reading this and it says I have a disability rating of 70%, but maybe I’m thinking oh I’m up for renewal so that might…I’m just thinking I don’t know if I trust this, it’s the VA.

M: And you asked me a question, and I’m going to ask it back to you, when you said is it going to ask me to confirm if I want to do a shorter application, so what’s your expectation? 

P: It shows that I’m X rated. So I expect when I push continue, it’s going to give me the shorter application

P: (reading) You aren’t required to fill in all fields, but we can review…” See that’s exactly what I was thinking. I would rather, just do the long one and give them all the information because I’d want to deal with them the least amount of time and get to a decision as quickly as possible. 

M: Do you have a service-connected disability above 50%?

P: Yeah

P: (next page) I mean everytime I see form blah blah blah EZ I laugh because these forms are not easy and I laugh. But that’s just my corniness. 

P: (clicks on green alert) ok you’re filling out a shortened application, if it was just about the other criteria- income and military service, if that was the only difference, then maybe I’d feel better not doing that.

M: And can you tell me a little bit about if it’s only income and military, why you’d feel better?

P: Um because really I feel like they already have my military service information so I don’t have to re fill it out, and income is just none of their business, like honestly. I’m always worried that if I like Doordash too much, they’ll think I’m completely employable and then they’ll take my disability away and then I’m screwed. So I am very aware when they ask for income, I don’t know what they’re going to do with it and I don’t know if they’re going to use it as justification to take away benefits or so that’s kind of my thought.

P: So that’s why I was like “ok cool” because if that (income) was part of the application, I would be stressing about it. So I’d be like, I really don’t want to give them my income. So almost reading that it makes me feel a little better, like ooh I get to fill out the shortened application, ok cool. 

M: and I’m wondering, if that was specified on the previous page, would that have been helpful for you?

P: I mean yeah, either way, you can’t really customize your VA experience, so if they want me to fill out the shortened application, I’ll fill out the shortened application because that’s what I have to do to get the benefits that I earned. So when they make me jump through a million hoops, I mean it makes me mad, but that’s what I have to do to get those benefits. 

P: oh ok so prefilled, that’s cool. I like the idea of a shortened application if that’s what that is, it’s just it gives you that information with the opportunity to change it, I like that, that’s nice.


P: Yeah i like that, if you need, you can correct it. 

P: (on race, ethnicity, origin page) (reads) ok for statistical purposes. Now again when it comes to race or ethnicity, as a white person, and this is so horrible, I’m in the academic realm so I shouldn’t feel this way, but if you’re white you’re more prosecuted now in a lot of areas. So with the VA it makes me kind of nervous, are they going to start changing benefits based on race, that’s kind of scary. 

M: Do you think you would’ve provided that?

P: I mean usually I do, I’m just kind of cognizant of it and it makes me nervous, but if it says it’s just for demographic purposes, I mean I don’t trust the VA, but in this situation I think that I can trust them to not take away money just because I’m white. It sounds absurd, but in the academic realm that has been a topic of conversation around scholarships and such. 

P: (on address, state isn’t prefilled) I mean why isn’t this prefilled though? 

M: Oh yeah because all the rest of the address was except the state? (M thinks P changed the country thus this is why)

P: Yeah good question

P: I mean I feel like it would be, it should’ve all been prefilled because it says it’s prefilled but it wasn’t.

P: Again I feel like email should’ve been prefilled…oh I guess it was, I just changed it.

P: Oh medicaid, I don’t know if I’m eligible for Medicaid. I don’t even know, I can never remember if Medicaid or Medicare is for the old people and the other one if for people uninsured, but I don’t know. Yeah so I don’t know.

M: So what would you do if this was your real application? 

P: I would stop here and look it up. Google Medicaid in Maryland to see

M: Do you think it would be useful if something was provided right here?

P: Yeah like an info, you know like sometimes there’s the “i” and when you hover, it gives you more info. Saying here are the eligibility requirements for Maryland and giving you like a bullet point, like if you make under this and are unmarried…that would be really helpful. Because especially if I have to open another window, I don’t know if I’m coming back to this one, I get distracted really easily.  So if I open another window, I might start shopping, who knows… and forget about this. Plus for people who have certain mental illnesses, doing more than one thing, it might discourage them, and you know it’s just too much work. 

M: Feel free in this case to just pick whichever one. 

P: (on other insurance) Like why are they asking (sees more info component of “why we ask this information”) oh ok (clicks it)

P: Good I’m glad you guys thought of that already. (reading) “for billing purposes only” hmm see they say that, but it just makes me nervous, I don’t really trust that it doesn’t affect because…I don’t know. 

P: (reads) ok. Oh interesting, near the end it says it goes to your deductible. Ah ok that’s interesting.

M: What’s interesting?

P: uh just that they might apply the charges toward your annual deductible. 

M: Any thoughts around that?

P: I’m just now foraying into the world of private insurance so I don’t really know how it all works yet. I had tricare and then my ex husband was in still while we were married, and then we got divorced. I was just using the VA because I was still in grad school. And then, I just now got a job, so I’m having my first experience with health insurance so I’m not really sure how deductibles works yet. So I think that helps me because it goes towards the deductible so that’s less that I have to pay out of pocket or something if I have health care somewhere else. 

P: (on policy number and group code) I’m just going to put a random thing, but these are all on the cards I think. 

M: Usually, is that where you would look first?

P: Yeah I’d just go get my insurance card. Which it did say at the beginning to have your insurance card so I would get that, but maybe if people were in the military they might not know that. So maybe right here (under policy number) it could say where to find that info..on the back of the card or maybe noting where to find it if someone didn’t know. 

P: (reading more info component on the Affordable health care act) huh yeah that’s good to know, the whole minimum essential coverage, that’s a nice bullet there. 

P: (on review page) oh wow that was pretty simple

M: and before you hit submit, I have a couple of questions

P: ok

M: I heard you say it was pretty simple, but I’m still going to ask the question of, overall how did you feel this experience was?

P: “Good, I mean, it was easy. I like the digital aspect of it, how it’s just each step, each question. It was really simple so yeah, I thought it was good. 

M: And as far as time, how was it based on your expectations versus what happened?

P: Um I expected it to take longer because anytime we’re talking about health care and an application or the VA you just expect it to take longer, so it’s almost this feeling like, “am i done?” “Did I do everything I needed to do?” I’m assuming I’ll get a confirmation email afterwards. Confirmation saying what to expect next, kind of a timeline, and if this doesn’t happen by this date, you can reach out to this phone number or something like that to get help, but yeah it seemed really straightforward so that was nice. 

M: And just thinking about, we talked about this in the beginning, the shortened form experience,  let’s say you had a friend just about to apply for health care. Given what you saw today what would you tell them in your own words. 

P: I would tell them it’s super easy to do on the website, I could even help you. You could login, it took me about 20minutes, as long as you have your information like your dd214, i think the prep time actually takes longer, so you have the list of documents, which it did tell you at the beginning, so that was good. 

M: Curious, what’s your expectation? Does everyone get the short form? Do some people get the short form? What’s your feeling?

P: One I got the short form because I’m regularly involved with the VA, updating little bits along the way. I imagine, especially for older Veterans, that it’s probably a little bit more difficult for them. They probably don’t have their DD214 on their computer. Their information might not have been documented on the computer from the beginning so some documents could have been lost or things like that. I could imagine for the older generations, what we call the old core, that they might have more difficulties, but for the more modern troops it’s pretty easy. 

M: Before you push submit, what do you expect to happen? I expect it to say, we’ve received your application, here’s a confirmation number, and then maybe we’ll send you an email or something like that.

M: ok go ahead and then let me know if that meets or changes your expectations or whatever you’re feeling. 

P: (highlighting the we’ll email section) oh ok great it tells you, if I didn’t do something right, because that would be my thing, if I’m doing anything alone, I’m nervous that maybe I interpreted something wrong, you know I don’t know all the legalese or verbage so um, maybe I misunderstood, so knowing that if there is something wrong, they’re going to reach out and it’s not just going to sit there and linger for years. But with that, they have to actually do that, I hope they actually follow through because sometimes you’re told that and then it doesn’t always, ya know

P: (highlights the part about if we haven’t contacted you) see this is exactly what I was talking about should be in the email, so this is nice. This whole thing would be great if it was also in my email, because I could read this and then get distracted, but if it’s in my email, I can go, well it has been a week, where are they? 

M: What’s your preferred contact method

P: Email and/or text. Email for any official communications or a lot of information. A text for an appointment reminder or maybe you have a message on the secure. 

M: Do you currently receive emails or text messages from the VA

P: Nooo, I don’t think I get texts 

M: What was the best part of this specific experience and what was the worst part of this specific experience?

P: The best part was it was quick and I knew what they were asking for, there wasn’t anything, except the whole Medicaid eligibility, other than that, I was familiar with what they were asking for, like the policy number. Because sometimes they ask for a random paper, but here everything was relevant.

P: And then just not knowing the eligibility for Medicaid or whatever it was.

P but other than that, it was pretty great.




_thanks and closing_





