## Notes from 8/18/2021 meeting

**CMS fields**:

- Entity Reference Field and Language Field addition requires PR to add them via a Drupal config file change.
    - That config file can be exported from a sandbox and then added to the repo for PR
- The fields will most likely be discarded in the future when a public api is exposed for content via Drupal.
    - Once the api is available, the discovery of adding the official multi-lingual modules to Drupal can be done, and a roadmap for migrating from the Entity Reference Fields would be created to assist in moving existing content appropriately.
- The scope of using Entity Reference Fields approach should be limited as much as possible.
    - Only used on main page content type (Benefits Derail Page)
    - Minimize the amount of translated content for the POC. 100 pages max, but I would say only 10-20 for POC to minimize migration effort down the road.

**Weblate**

- Standing up the service will take work
- A content sync process would need to be engineered to move content and translations between the systems in some way. If we had an open cms api we wouldnt need this.
- ATO considerations have to be addressed
    - Access levels of the service could impact complexity of ATO requirements
- Adding more complexity by the additional service seems somewhat unnecessary overhead if we can centralize the process (multilingual modules in drupal)

C**ontent-build Updates**

- CMS is moving to an open REST api.
- React I18n solution would be the main translation implementation that we would need to focus on, in addition to client api calls and routing
- Forms translations could be migrated to an api based solution and could be an easier process than content at this point.
- Long term, full integration of content localization relies on an open content api

**Managing Translated Content** 

- All translations and strings are managed in the CMS, and applications will pull CMS information about translations from api and show it accordingly.
- Content translations live in the CMS, and application translations live at the code level in JSON files. If the need arrises to move all translations for apps to CMS, then the migration could be in the secondary engineering phase after MVP, and after the public api is available.
- Forms should be the main area of work for content localization, and supporting translations in the applications may need to be part of the new form system in general. Only new forms going forward could be translated, and over time a migration to the new forms library with translation support would be done for all legacy form library apps.
