## 2023-01-19 Health Apartment Team Meeting

## Attendees
- Stephen Barrs
- Mikki Northuis
- Eric Voshall
- Danielle Thierry
- Jonathan Nelson
- Lean Bannon
- Martha Wilkes
- Ryan Thurlwell
- Patrick

## Agenda
Track-specific updates from each team member
  * MHV app migrations
  * Where will health apartment live?
  * Cerner data integration
  * Support Identity changes

Tech chat - OR - Design & Research Strategy Discussion

## Track-Specific Updates
- Lauren
	- New team members from OCTO
	- Migrations
		- Major concern on appointments is having a clear track back to MHV during the transition.  We'll need to design that as part of the plan to shut off the MHV version
		- Records - trying to keep that ball rolling as fast as possible.  Figure out a plan to figure out Low Fi mocks ASAP.   Meeting with Ryan after this meeting.  Once Coulton is back, perhaps Ryan can help. 
	- Where will Health Apt Live
		- That will be the next priority after Medical Records
		- Alicia is scheduling a meeting for Jan 30 or 31 to discuss building the apartment
	- Cerner integration
		- Met with Cerner, and is working with COP (Cory Trim) on how to integrate them. Lauren is working to get access to GH, ZH and limited access to Slack and start to cross walk with them the data we will need from Cerner.
		- Lauren, Stephen, Mark Dewey, Shane Elliot, Leila will be meeting with Intermountain (Gov only meeting)
- Mikki
	- Dec tree tests are closed out.  
	- Looking for time to synthesize
	- Deep dive - will close out soon
- Jonathan
	- MHV migration - met with ByLight team to handoff Immunizations assets
	- Getting organized to dig into Labs & Tests
- Danielle
	- Comms charter & elevator pitch from big meeting - next step is getting folks from other groups joined
	- Putting together a comms & content matrix to clear up any confusion 
	- Working with Carnetta on functionality around unified Terms & Conditions
	- Secure messaging content
	- Patient safety work
	- Shift in approach - where content, IA and accessibility feedback can be obtained at the same time.  Considering combined office hours
- Stephen
	- Digging into VA Profile API to map data there to existing Blue Button demographic info
	- Shared how he is doing the mapping to verify that is what we are looking for.
	- Will do pre-work before Intermountain meeting
- Martha
	- Nothing for this team
	- Working with Danielle on interstitial convo guide
	- Reshuffling folks; concerns about this team not having its own accessibility folks
	- Shared support concern - 5 accessibility people to two. 
- Eric
	- Questions from Lexi & Bobby about PDF functionality
	- Been diving into any PDF generation patterns & examples
	- Reached out to the PHR team about immunization dosage - currently not available via PHR, but doing some digging about if it can be
	- Collect docs to handoff to Daniel
- Leila 
	- Working on setting up infrastructure for Phase 0 on getting feedback
	- Needs to talk with Marci and Jonathan about next designs
	- Housekeeping on meetings
- Leah
	- Meeting strategy
	  
## Other meeting topics
- None

## Action Items
- Marci check to see if Daniel is on this meeting,  if not ask Alicia to add
