# Health Apartment and Content Team Sync

## 10/26/22
* Alerts
  * It would be good to bring all of the alerts into one file, that could be added as a file in Github. 
  * We add onto this file as we find new alerts. 
  * Create a ticket for content team to do a review of these alerts over time. 
* Backend vs Frontend alerts
  * How do we help the front end users communicate what error they are receiving to help desk staff. 
  * Keep track of this as we go forward, to potentially be included in call center staff training. 
  * https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/blob/831d86434675da2e72809ee5eadf7d8ee79c4ae6/products/identity-personalization/error-messaging/error-code-matrix.md

## 10/12/22
* R&S demo
 * Content that is generally about a feature should go into R&S. 
 * Content that is about how to use a feature, and whose information would be helpful in the moment, should go in feature-specific FAQs.
 * Future vision is for content that is published in R&S can be published elsewhere. Publish once, show everywhere. That is not the way it is today. 
 * To decide this, we need to look at each FAQ and tag it to where it needs to go. R&S, In Feature Unauth FAQ, In Feature Auth FAQ, or a combo of them.
 * Content team will share a document with us to start tagging FAQs to where they belong. 
* Reviewed 911 message content
 * Concern that it may be too long.
 * Concern that it doesn't explicitly say "Don't use SM in emergency situations"
 * Content team to take these concerns into consideration
* Next meeting
 * Danielle to give an overview of what Unauth pages should and will look like (template for these pages)

## 10/5/22
* 911 messages
 * Content team is currently working on.
* Inbox naming convention
 * Agreed on Inbox being the name of the Messages landing page. 
 * Design team to figure out how to integrate this into the application.
* FAQs
 * Talk about where this lives for both authenticated and unauthenticated use cases. 
 * Agreed that we need to better understand how Resources & Support works on VA.gov and how this should be reconciled with SM specific FAQs. 
 * Danielle to give a demo/overview of R&S at next meeting.
