# Medical Records: design and research sync

## 2022-11-30 

## Attendees
- Lexi Wunder
- Jonathan Nelson
- Jenny Wang
- Bobby Bailey
- Anne Costello 
- Robyn Singleton 

## Agenda
- How to include ByLight folks in data mapping and strategy.
    - @Marci and @Jenny Wang can speak to the current data mapping work.

- List of handoff artifacts and timelines that is thinking through
- 

## Notes

- Marci and Jenny walked through the background of the MR domains, fields, capabilities 
    - Wellness reminder and EKG not included in 13 domins that Coulton and Jenny listed 



## 2022-11-9 

## Attendees
- Lexi Wunder
- Jonathan Nelson
- Coulton Bunney
- Bobby Bailey
- Anne Costello 

## Agenda
- Updates 
- Medical records and broader My Health IA (Coulton)

## Notes

**Updates** 
- Include Jenny on strategy and research workshop plan prep (Jonathan and Robyn) 

**IA** 
- Coulton walked through the IA (focusing on MR) 

- Recording of the meeting [see recording here](https://adhocteam-us.zoom.us/rec/play/HpLEly58yl-FVONmptKBXeIHituP4yTEnFtwD_uaUutEOKQ84fBherMeauwfx2JtYCNVW4JL64Eb68h-.oxNhql0RdAlj--RX)

  - Passcode: LE.0VEZw 


# Medical Records: design and research sync

## 2022-10-26 

## Attendees
- Robyn Singleton 
- Lexi Wunder
- Jonathan Nelson
- Coulton Bunney
- Jenny Wang 

## Agenda
- Generative research update (card sorting approach, pilot sessions, next steps) 
- Epic tickets set up for domains x domain, or some other strategy? 
- Coordinating with flagship mobile app team around immunizations. What do we want that to look like? 
- Leaving space for any design review questions/discussion

## Notes

**Generative research update (card sorting approach, pilot sessions, next steps)** 
  - Robyn (Pilot session): they went well - made updates based on feedback and Robyn and Jonathan's expereinces. Will have one more "practice' this afternoon. Card sorting approach: Landed on open card sort.  Wanted to capture the how users would categorize and label groups.
  - Coulton That sounds great. More interested in how partipants group than how they label. 

Next steps: 
- Sessions start Monday, Oct 31 
- Fill the notes slot by Lexi and Jenny  

**Epic tickets set up for domains x domain, or some other strategy?** 

- Coulton: Any contract requirments on tickets? 
- Robyn: Not that we are aware of 
- Coulton: Do this exercise for each category:
   - Where does the data live?
   - What is the shape of the data?
   - How should the data be displayed?
   - Prototype and test
   - Probably get 2 primary ways to display information - (1) list view, (2) more detailed view of items in list.
- How does that data exist together? Display info for immunizations, and lab results, how navigate between sections? How to stitch together. Informed by Mikkiâ€™s research.
Stitching will probably come together later - want more of bottom up question. 

**Coordinating with flagship mobile app team around immunizations. What do we want that to look like?** 

- Coulton: We will use that biweekly sync to touch base first and schedule additional followups, etc 

**Leaving space for any design review questions/discussion**

- Discussed intention and history of the meeting 
- Coulton: Bring more structure to the meeting. We should have a strong design decisions. I am going to purpose that Jonathan and Lexi do not own that meeting - I am going to purpose Brian owns that meeting.


# Medical Records: design and research sync

## 2022-10-18 

## Attendees
- Robyn Singleton 
- Lexi Wunder
- Bobby Bailey 
- Anne Costello 
- Jonathan Nelson

## Agenda
- What is the purpose and who owns the VA.gov SM Weekly Design Review meeting? 
- Robyn S: Crowdsource ideas for categories and cards on [this Card Sorting mural board](https://app.mural.co/t/adhoccorporateworkspace2583/m/adhoccorporateworkspace2583/1657220913258/6fcf8b252749414f8881e6751f3654344f4cbad7?sender=u24af215c7d9bf806b8545488)

## Notes
- Weds meeting: What's helpful for us? 
  - Lexi: Helpful for getting feedback, face time with VA.gov stakeholders. Helpful for relatioships with devs, helping them to see designs. Helpful to show stakeholders (devs, VA.gov POs) to provide feedback before things go in front of users. 
  - Jonathan: So much historical knowledge in Patty/Carnetta's mind libraries. "These stakeholders" - OCTO POs (Patty, Carnetta), and our PO (Tracy in the past). Helpful to have backing of Tracy/Lauren - making aware of our perspective and what going to fight for. Better understand resistence. 
  - Lexi: Help keep everything agile. Tracy helped navigate issues brought up by Patti. May take multiple meetings to understand root of problem. Can also help shift responsibility for prior research that is out of scope (e.g., patient safety group). Have it documented - they are responsible for X action item. 
  - Robyn: What about devs? What's been useful in past? 
  - Lexi: In past, basic IA. Devs able to take that, make scaffolding, get started on developing before designs finalized. Helped to flag what's possible/ impossible. Do technical research. 

Robyn: Two groups of stakeholders - different needs. OCTO POs - need to be updated about progress to provide historical insight/feebdack, to get feedback on designs, and to get buy-in. Devs - to get insight into and provide feedback on designs to ensure progress, avoid problems. 
  - Lexi: Maybe add to agenda - have a meeting for the meeting. What's the purpose of the meeting? As devs able to demo what done to stakeholders. When no designs to show, devs show what done prior to company-wide demos. 

Action items: 
  - Identify who "owns" the agenda - Bryan or Lexi? 
  - Potentially use today's meeting to talk about the meeting


**Card sorting activity**

- Robyn ran exercise around card sort with the [mural board](https://app.mural.co/t/adhoccorporateworkspace2583/m/adhoccorporateworkspace2583/1657220913258/6fcf8b252749414f8881e6751f3654344f4cbad7?sender=u24af215c7d9bf806b8545488)

Action items: 
 - Robyn and Jonathan will refine and continue to work on card sorting activity 
 


