# Secure Messaging: Weekly design and research critique

## 2022-11-02

### Attendees
* Alexia Wunder
* Anne Costello
* Coulton Bunney

### Agenda and notes
Short meeting. Only lasted 30 mins. 

**SM Usability research**
  * Discussed last minute edits to usability conversation guide based on previous week's pilot sessions. Made a few edits, such as updating the way we ask about threads, introducing the 1 to 5 likert scale, and simplifying the tasks around using search. 
  * Discussed making small edits to conversation based on initial sessions with users. Nothing that will impact the fundamental goals of the research.

### Action items
*None*

## 2022-10-25

### Attendees
* Alexia Wunder
* Anne Costello
* Coulton Bunney

### Agenda and notes

**Updates to this meeting**
* In order to reduce the meeting burden on the Bylight UCD team, we will reduce this meeting from twice per week to once per week. New meeting will be on Tuesdays at 11am-noon ET.
* Meeting agenda to be set by EOD on Mondays. Reminder will be sent in #mhv-secure-messaging channel. 
* Notes will be taken each week. 

**SM usability research round 2**
* Ran first pilot session. Made updates to script. Next pilot will be on Thursday. Coulton plans to attend. 
* Discussed making sure folks can sign up for research. 

**911 alerts**
* Lexi presented on ideas for updates to alerts. 
* Three different pages to design for
  * Inbox: Decided on using an expandable alert, initially in collapsed state
  * Compose page: Decided on using an alert, always on top of page. 
  * Reply: Decided on using an alert. Appears at top of reply area (within Blue bar area)

**Triage research** 
* Coulton to be added to check in session on Thursday morning.

### Action items
* [x] Cancel Thursday meetings (Lexi) 
* [x] Update Tuesday meetings to be one hour (Lexi)
* [x] Create Slack bot to collect agenda items (Lexi)
* [x] Create notes document (Coulton)
* [x] Send out sign up sheet for SM usability research (Anne or Lexi)
