### Justin
- Full name field is preventing the PR from going in
- Action items: fix the bug, get the PR merged so we can send to A11y and QA (before? or after?):shrug:

### Jonathan
- Content and IA changes from review + usability study changes

### Patrick
- Working with Jonathan :tada:
- Submitted draft definitions for 1010-CG to Lauren Taub
- Working with Peggy to understand process for content review
- Looking for a plain language Privacy Act

### Kevin
- Finished research on Veteran Verification
- Starting work on CARMA Authetication Service

### CC
- We have stakeholders!
