# Standup April 16

### Open items

- ~Jonathan: question on error messaging~
- ~Justin: question on analytics~
- Team: response to Dark Release definition email
- Content: Response to Pam's feedback/plan for staging review

## Backend
- Endpoint code merged
- PR for new facility list
- PR for MVI check

## Content
- Revised content!

## Design/Research
- Making final content changes to send to Justin in Prototype
- Error message page

## Frontend
- Working on the redesign :exclamation-point:
- Working with Analytics on GA

## To Do
- Add testing dates to Phase 0 schedule
- For 2pm meeting: Are we removing the suffix field/duplicate email?
- Find resolution on page unavailable (reach out to IA team?) 
