# Product Outline: IES Download on VA.gov 

## Points of Contact 
- VA.gov AE Profile Team
- VEO - Melissa R, Reginald M.
- ILER API - Chris, Lisa J. < this isn't possible to reuse bvt their team has some learnings  



## Overview
The VA.gov Profile IES Initiative is aimed at integrating a feature within the VA.gov that allows veterans to easily access and download their Individual Exposure Summary (IES). The IES is a report generated by the Individual Longitudinal Exposure Record (ILER) system, and this initiative responds to a legislative mandate requiring veterans' access to their ILER data.

## Problem Statement
Veterans need a way to access and download their Individual Exposure Summary (IES) within VA.gov ecosystem (likely the profile or letters/records/documents page). Challenges lie in determining the optimal location for this feature, particularly as the IES has different types of data including military history and medical history as well as exposure data and in providing sufficient context to users especially considering data quality can vary dramatically from veteran to veteran.

**How might we seamlessly integrate the IES download feature into the VA.gov profile (?), particularly within the Military Info section (¿ maybe lightest lift not necessarily ?), ensuring it meets veterans' needs and expectations while enhancing their overall experience?**

## Desired User Outcomes
- Veterans can easily locate and download their IES 
- Veterans have a general understanding of what the IES is and the constraints related to reading and updating it. 
- Veterans feel confident using the IES in related applications, such as benefits claims (e.g., 526EZ application) and disability rating appeals.

## Undesired User Outcomes
- Veterans struggle to find the IES download 
- Increased support requests due to difficulties in finding or understanding the IES and/or IES feature.

## Desired Business Outcomes
- Compliance with legislative requirements to provide veterans with access to their ILER.
- A reduction in support requests by ensuring the IES is available to all veteran users.
- Increased user satisfaction and trust in VA.gov, evidenced by positive feedback and higher engagement with the IES feature / VA.gov location where this is deployed.

## Undesired Business Outcomes
- Failure to comply with legislative mandates.
- Increased operational costs if the enhancements to the Military Info section and the IES feature lead to confusion or additional support needs.

---
## Metrics 

## Baseline KPI Values
- **Service completion:** Matches metrics for similar download functionalities on VA.gov.
- **Trust/Satisfaction:** Existing user satisfaction ratings with VA.gov profile Military Info Page (or wherever we launch this).
- **Health:** Current volume of support requests regarding exposure history access.

## Objectives and Key Results (OKRs)
- **Objective:** Ensure veterans can find, download, and use their IES 
  - **Key result:** Increase user satisfaction scores related to the corresponding page launches by 5%.

---

## Assumptions/Risks
- Veterans associate exposure-related information with their health care and may look for the IES in health realted sections of the website. However, in a card sort, veterans expected the first thing the IES would contain was deployment history ([see BAH card sort](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team-sensitive/blob/master/products/identity-personalization/profile/military_info/2023-enhanced-military-information/stakeholder-artifacts/MCT%20ILER%20HCD%20Research%20Findings_20230328%20(1).pdf)).
- The most significant risk is placing the IES download option in a location that veterans do not intuitively associate with exposure information, potentially leading to usability issues.
- Because of the complexity of the document and the lack of process available for addressing inaccuracies, Veterans might lose trust in VA for providing a this information without greater support or pathways for fixing issues. This could also lead to increased demand on call centers and support groups. 

## Solution Approach
- **Initial Build:** The IES download feature will be integrated into the VA.gov profile, with placement starting in the Military Info section, where veterans typically expect to find service-related data.
- **Explicit exclusions:** The initial implementation will not include placement in the medical records section or under MyHealtheVet, as feedback suggests the IES is not solely health-related and could lead to misinterpretation.
- **Future Evolution:** Following usability testing we may make changes to how we're linking to the IES from other places but shouldn't delay getting this in the hands of veterans. After the initial launch we can continue to collect/monitor user feedback and usage analytics to guide any necessary adjustments, such as considering placement in additional sections of the website (e.g., Claims sections) or incorporating alerts or links to the IES page on relevant benefits forms.

---

## Important Artifacts
- [project outline](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/blob/master/products/identity-personalization/profile/military-information/2024-ies/README.md)
- [mural ](https://app.mural.co/t/departmentofveteransaffairs9999/m/departmentofveteransaffairs9999/1695126310753/6ab8c3953d2eeaa067f666d5a03a754c5ded3d82?wid=0-1723060024022)
- [Readout Mural](https://app.mural.co/t/departmentofveteransaffairs9999/m/departmentofveteransaffairs9999/1725050478478/cbc93cb664ebcfabf7312092de9b31784a6a3cda?sender=uaa72d11015d3f7c704a64191)
- [Process flow](https://app.mural.co/t/departmentofveteransaffairs9999/m/departmentofveteransaffairs9999/1725569346643/fd28cd77f4dc39baa50f3aa752a85e7dc99b03fa?sender=uaa72d11015d3f7c704a64191) 
- [Stakeholder artifacts ](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team-sensitive/blob/master/products/identity-personalization/profile/military_info/2023-enhanced-military-information/stakeholder-artifacts/Doolin_Andrea_Marty_Complete_Report.pdf) 
- Research resources
     - [10/2023 Profile: Enhanced Military Information MVP - Stakeholder Interview Summary](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/blob/master/products/identity-personalization/profile/military-information/discovery-and-research/2023-09-enhanced-military-info-mvp/stakeholder-interviews/stakeholder-interview-summary.md)
     - [10/2023 Enhanced military information MVP, desk research summary](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/blob/master/products/identity-personalization/profile/military-information/discovery-and-research/2023-09-enhanced-military-info-mvp/desk-research-summary.md)
     - [08/2024 ILER IES Report, Desk Research Findings](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/blob/master/products/identity-personalization/profile/military-information/discovery-and-research/2024-ies/ILER%20Desk%20Research%202024.md)
- Backend resources
     - [(new) Individual Longitudinal Exposure Record (ILER) API - Dept of Veterans Affairs-External - Confluence (va.gov)](https://confluence.devops.va.gov/display/VAExternal/%28new%29+Individual+Longitudinal+Exposure+Record+%28ILER%29+API) 
     - [Claims Evidence API (i think?)](https://confluence.devops.va.gov/pages/viewpage.action?pageId=48090012) 
- [Repo for the ILER ART team](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/bip-cfapi-iler-api)
- [Collab Cycle](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/issues/106583)
- Release Plan

## Launch Dates
- **Target Launch Date:** tbd
- **Actual Launch Date:** tbd
- **Impact Review Date:** tbd
