# Vet Centers - touchpoint meeting 8-24-2020

VC = Vet Center 

Jessica Schiefer (director) gave most of the answers to Leyda’s ?s. 


**1) Services - official services versus group outings**

> LH - We are understanding the uniqueness of each VC, with a list of svcs, how do you reconcile the official svcs v. the group outings? Is a group outing counseling? How to appropriately reflect all these other things VCs offer?

> JS - tough question. VCs as a whole - message is consistent, but it’s how each VC goes about doing it. Could look diff per VC. You could consider a lot of what they do part of community building, inside or outside VC. 

> There are counseling components to the group activities, but not all. 

> No outreach specialists chimed in. 

> LH - the PDF about branding research talked about some of those things. 

> JS - from a leadership level, we emphasize flexibility. I see general svcs as consistent, but then maybe a VC could add its “flavor” to it. 


**2) Photos and other things we can start getting from VCs**

> LH - weather could change. Autumn is coming. 

> JS - agree on photo. Also want to be careful about the number of times we go to VCS and ask them for info. Let’s group what we ask about. Give them the lay of the land w.r.t. we are asking and when. Give them a heads-up.

> Things we’ll definitely need:
> * Photo
> * Parking
> * Transportation


**3) Differentiating VCs from each other and from VAMCs**

> This relates to #1 ^. 

> MM - on VC detail page, the intro text could capture individual VC spirit and personality. 

> JS - want to hear from outreach specialists. I worry about the need for guidelines. 

> DC - for VAMCs, we put up very specific guardrails.  

> JS - Bryan, Austin, Troy? 

> Austin - I am of mindset to keep things uniform. Don’t know about adding individual flavor…

> Bryan - yes, that 1st paragraph should be uniform, very basic. W.r.t. services provided, we have that basic list. Say if you have someone who’s initially coming into the VC program, need to find a way to plug in therapeutic recreational activities in the right way. Want to be careful with how we promote it. Unique approach. VAMCs offer some of the same therapy svcs. Have to have something that really draws ppl in, shows the flavor. Clinicians, outreach specialists running diff groups.

> JS - Aptive is on the line. They are helping us with messaging. 

> JS - agree that we need to differentiate from VAMCs. Peer to peer, friendly approach. 

> Bryan - example is someone in Enfield, CT, which is right between 2 VCs. What if that person has specific interests? We use the term “therapeutic recreation.” We offer “Mindfulness on the water, “which is kayaking. That differentiator could be the determinant for getting that veteran into care. 

> JS seemed open to asking the VCs for info more than once, but wants to be careful. Yes, let’s tell them what’s coming next. She struggles to get high-quality photos from the field. Might need some back and forth w.r.t. that. 


**4) Form we want to use to collect info** 

> LH — we are not quite to this yet. MM agrees. 

> LH - think we might want to try a few things before we decide what to ask VCs for yet. Might want to do some design exploration. 

**5) No scheduling tool yet for VCs**

> JS - Showed the 3 top task button on the VAMC page for Pitt. Don’t have scheduling tool now. But I would like to have a tool that emails an outreach specialist directly. 

> DC - we were going to ask you whether you have a scheduling tool. 

> JS - I am a little fearful of using an outreach specialist’s email. What if they move? Also want to tie in call center. If someone wants to talk but is not in crisis (outside of hours), it would be good to enable them to do that.

> LH asked about call center data. 

> JS will check. She does not think the calls get recorded. Thinks they track what calls were for. 

> LH - it would be good to hear what language | terms veterans used to ask about something like bereavement, for example. 

> JS - sometimes they are transferred to White House call center or somewhere else. We do need to get our call center up to speed. 


**6) Aptive team** 

> Ashley from Aptive - No ?s but ready to jump in to hear next step. 

> JS - we are trying to get Aptive computer access. We can talk offline about how they can help. 

> DC - sounds good. I am scrambling to get some resources. 












