# Vet Centers - touchpoint 9-21-2020

**Catchment areas and how to administer services across rural areas**

Rich Barbado from 10R6, the person Jessica asked to attend: 
We are at phase where we are trying to figure out where we are covering and where we’re not covering as best we could be. 

Last month we asked VCs for what they thought their svc area was by ZIP. Also asked for MVCs. The folks on this call can give helpful info. 

RGIS - just mapped the results into this system. Planning ofc objective is that when a lot of the physical VCs were stood up, there were factors that went into that. We are re-looking at coverage the physical locations have now. Projecting for when there won’t be Korean and Vietnam Vets anymore. 

Are brick and mortar stations and outreach and MVCs deployed appropriately?

Considerations like migratory patterns of Vets going to where jobs are. 

Visual aids: location parking, what the team composition is. The more things you can have that may decrease the Vets’ level of anxiety, the better. If we can showcase those things up front, the more Vets will use the VCs. 

Dave C - You did 1 call to the facilities, asking about ZIP codes they serve? Will this be a regular data call? And wd we be revisiting the positioning of that? Plans to keep that data fresh? 

Rich - yes, I understand that we plan to do this annually at a minimum. Don’t know what they did last time they did this. I’ve only been in VA 6 yrs. 

600 VAMCs. 300 VCs. 

Dave C - if you include the clinics with VAMCs, you get into the thousands. We’ll need this data to build and evolve the product. 

[Jessica joined.}

Bryan - MVC catchment areas - static or change? In New England area, personnel wise, you have a MVC assigned to a specific VC. But the MVC is a district asset. There are 5 districts across the country. And there are several MVCs that support a district or region. That kind of overlaps dep on avail of MVCs, and their mission. At district level, assign availability of the MVC. The MVC is a district asset. A VC cd have a large geographic area. But in New England, you have 18-20 VCs. 

Ken - If the MVC is assigned to a VC, that VC is tasked with operating it, but things could change. MVCs can pretty much go anywhere the district or RCS need them to go.

LH - if you find a need in a rural area 300 miles away, how would that work?

Ken - if a director for a certain VC (that VC has its catchment area), if they have a MVC, they can just use it. Or they can request a MVC. There’s not really a limit on where they cd go. Usually if there is a need, you request the closest one. If it’s not available, you just work your way out. 

LH - plan for all ZIP codes in the country to be assigned. 

Rich - in theory, we should be covering military installations. There are odd things like Dodger Stadium having own ZIP. Military bases, too. We are looking for gaps in coverage. 

Hopi or Navajo - we went into an area with lots of Vets, figured out what the community looked like. Do we need to send clinician and outreach specialist? Do we need outstation? In theory, that’s how it’s supposed to work. 

Bryan - 1 big thing to get across - not just looking at the brick and mortar VC — having that reach. Ok, temporarily we might push out a MVC and access point. But we really want to show that expanse, that reach. That reach is extremely important to represent. 

A VC’s might be over state lines. 

Dave C - how do you communicate the catchment area and your reach with MVCs, etc? 

Rich - I think that’s what we’ve been struggling with. It’s been a challenge. We’re trying to mitigate and eliminate as many barriers to access as possible. When I left the military, I was not willing to drive 2 hours to a VC. There was nothing online to say where VCs covered near me. Lowell, MA. 

Bryan - 
How do we communicate about geographic avail to Vets today? It’s an in-depth convo about catchment areas, CAPs, etc. 

W.r.t. how to represent this on website: have a lit-up area of what the VC roughly covers. CAPs are often updated. There has been talk of putting them on the map as well. We used a MVC as a CAP for a ltd time. Not sure how we’d represent that. 

Dave C - freshness of data is critical. Especially if VA is revisiting where the brick and mortar VCs are over the new few years. 

Ken - that would be very helpful. We have 3 therapists who work far away. 

Bryan - I have a QR code on my business card. 

















