# Meeting Notes

## Attendees
- John Hashimoto
- Marci McGuire
- Cassandra Allen
- Zach Morel
- Allison Christman
- Josh Kim
- Angela Fowler
- Randi Hecht
- Peter Hill
- Trevor Pierce
- Noah Gelman
- Dariusz Dzien
- Tze-ChiuLei

## Notes
- Several accessibility feedback items from Josh and Angela
   - From Angela - one other thing she would add for users with cognitive impairments - it would be helpful to include a definition of the form (what is it supposed to do?) - I noted that we are moving that direction by starting to collect descriptions for the top 100 most used forms.
 - Allison clarified what changes they were actually reviewing. Josh may have been reviewing an older version.
 - Trevor - feedback button interfering with mobile forms  - they are working on a permanent solution - this is already being hidden on Production
 - Peter - not much feedback
 - Sync up the prototype to the link
 - Tze - has a follow-up and will be updating the test cases that are not included in the current testing
 - Mikki - Peggy had a couple of content things. They would like to revisit "Online Tool" labels at some point.
 - Dariusz - Make sure there are end to end tests - be believe they are already there.
 - Tze will rely on Zach for the end-to-end tests - they should already be there.
