# Notes: PACT Act Wizard Usability Testing

## Warm-up Questions - 5 minutes
Let’s start with a few questions... 

1. I understand you are a (*Veteran / Family member).* Is that right? That’s correct.
	- *(If Family member, confirm:)* Are you a family member of a Veteran? Are you also a Veteran yourself?
	- Thanks for confirming that.

1. What kind of device are you using today? *(Computer / Tablet / Smartphone)* Laptop.

1. I will be sharing a web page link with you during the session. How would you prefer to receive the URL? I could dictate it to you, or put it in the Zoom chat. *(RECORD)* Either way. If its not too long, you can dictate it to me. 

1. Do you have any experience with VA health care? Yes, I go every 6 months

1. Do you get disability compensation from VA? Yes

1. Are you familiar with the PACT Act?  Yes

    - *(If Y)* Have you applied for VA benefits under the PACT Act? No. I’m waiting for something, but they haven’t approved it. 
      - *(If Y)* Can you tell me about your experience? *(when, how, results)*

    - *(If N)* No problem. You'll learn about it as we go through this session. 


## User Tasks

### Task 1: [Wayfinding] 
If you wanted to learn more about the PACT Act, what would you do? Normally I would go to the VA’s website. VA.gov. Depending on what I’m looking for. I haven’t used it for a while. I’m also applying for combat compensation. It was supposed to happen sometime this fall and I check on it here and there. I normally go to the CRSC website to check an update. I never see anything on the VA website.

- *RECORD what they do: Google / VA.gov / words looking/searching for: _______________________*


### Task 2: [Open prototype] 


### Task 3: [Go through questions in wizard]
Let's suppose that (Google/VA.gov) led you to the web page that I'm going to show you. I'd like you to try to use it, and please share **your feedback** while you're doing that. I'm interested in your impressions of what you see, any questions that you have, and how you feel about what you're doing. I'd like you to talk to me about what you're thinking and what you plan to do BEFORE selecting anything.

*(RECORD all feedback on questions:)*
- *Intro screen* Seems to be more informational here. How it may benefit you and what categories are covered in the PACT Act. 
  - *especially if p doesn't know what the PACT Act is*
- *Service years* During both… Location, I have served in most of them, no, no, I don’t know what C-123 airplanes are, I'm not sure, no, no, no, clicked continue. (browsing the VA benefits page)
  - *any difficulty selecting an option? Y / N*
   - *(family members who aren't Veterans should answer based on the service of their Veteran family member)*
  - *(if p not sure, ask p what they'd do. then advise to select "both")*
- *Burn Pit questions* 
- *Agent Orange questions*
- *Radiation question*
- *Camp Lejeune question*


### Task 4: [Results screen--Lejeune or VA Benefit eligibility]
*(RECORD which results screen they see: Lejeune / VA Benefit eligibility / You may be eligible)*
 
Please tell me about what you see here. I may be eligible for some compensation, VA healthcare. For me the Persian Gulf. I’ve been reading a lot of the presumptive conditions. They have added new ones. 

What does this mean to you? Because of where you were at, some of the conditions that we have, we don’t have to sit there and prove that it’s because of that. I can understand it better than I can explain it.  I think whoever is doing this for the VA, it's more clear. I find myself going multiple times for the toxic exposure exams (burn pit). Initially the first exams in 2011,2012 they said I didn’t fall into this, but I knew I did. I had to go back multiplies for them to finally say, “Yes, you do fall under that”. It was more rule-wise, I had multiple years of no diagnosis. For instance: allergies, you don’t have allergies even though you have the symptoms. Took over a decade of symptoms. 

What would you do now? Go to, “learn what to do next”. Then start a claim. Then apply for VA healthcare and start making those burn pit exposure appointments. I would also look at the list to see if anything impacts me that I may not be considering. For me, if I wasn’t waiting, I would go to, “file a supplemental claim”. They are always installing fear that if you file a supplemental claim and then they take it away and you’d have to start all over. It’s like suing the government. I know many veterans who are afraid to file a supplemental claim because there is a lot of “I don’t know” or file the claim and possibly lose what I have now. (Participant has some disability compensation but is afraid to file a supplemental claim because may lose a percentage of compensation). 
It's a shame that we have to walk in there and list everything because if we say, “we are fine” they will use those words against us. 
At that point, for the combat service, it goes to your service not a VA thing. It impacts retirees. It only impacts our retirement pay. PACT Act is a portion of the combat service. I’m not concerned because it’s not VA-related. 

*(When all done with feedback on this page...)* Now I'm going to show you a different version of what you might see, which does NOT correspond to your answers to the questions, but I'd like you to take a look at it anyway. 

Could you please select "Continue"?

  
### Task 5: [Results screen--You may be eligible]
*(If participant notices that locations don't match their answers to the questions asked...)* This is a sample page that doesn't correspond to your answers to the questions. I'd like you to pretend that you served in the Middle East.

Please tell me about what you see here. 

Why do you think you’re seeing this page? 

What does this page mean to you?

What might be unclear to you?

- *(RECORD all comments, especially about the date. Did they notice it? Y/N)*

Could you tell me what "presumptive conditions" are?

- *(If they didn't read the description at the bottom of the page...)* Did you see anything about that on this page?
- Could you please take a look now? 
- *(After they read it...)* What do "presumptive conditions" mean to you?

*RECORD other comments on “You may be eligible for VA benefits” page:*
- *“Learn what to do next” link*


*RECORD comments on “Apply for VA benefits now” page:*
- *New PACT Act conditions accordion*
- *Other Gulf War illnesses accordion*
- *File for disability compensation*
- *Apply for VA health care*


If you saw this page based on the questions you just answered, **how confident are you that you could take action**? I’d like you to rate your confidence level.  

- On a scale from 1 to 7, where 1 is *Not at all confident* and 7 is *Extremely confident*, how confident are you that you could take action based on the information in this page? 7, the last time I did it in 2017-2018, I submitted additional information that they needed online. It was pretty easy. The combat one doesn’t have online action. I have to print everything up and highlight, highlight, and submit a packet. It looks like about 200 pages. You have to submit everything, not portions, all of the recurring self-notes. I have everything ready; I’m just waiting for them to get guidance from Congress.

What worked well for you? Almost everything. I like that they are consolidating everything. I like that they are going to one website instead of multiple sites. Minimizing is always nice. 

What didn’t work well for you? I can’t think of anything. I think it works fine. For a government site, it’s impressive. 
Change or add the screens? It’s nice, I like the “ New PACT Act presumptive “ tab. Because you don’t remember where you started. I like the drop-down menu and links. 

I was on sites a lot when I was getting my claims ready. I saw a lot of changes and realized that they are making it easier. I forgot the name of the previous sites: one for health, I don’t remember the sites. It was nice to go to one site. Mainly right now, I use My HealtheVet. I’m requesting refills and prescriptions. 
When do you go to VA.gov? If I'm looking for general. 
When do you go to My Healthy Vet? I only go there if I need to make an appointment, message my doctor, refills, or prescriptions.




- Why? 

- What might that action be? 

- *(RECORD what they do: Apply for disability / supplemental claim / health care / ________)*?
  
 
## Post-Task Interview - 7 minutes

*Type into #feedback-backchannel: "Any questions you want me to ask?"*


1. What worked *well* for you?
1. What was *unclear or didn't work well* for you?
1. What would you like to *change or add*?
1. Is there anything else that we haven't talked about that you think I should know? 

## Thank You and Closing - 3 minutes
