# Notes: PACT Act Wizard Usability Testing

## Warm-up Questions - 5 minutes
Let’s start with a few questions... 

1. I understand you are a (*Veteran / Family member).* Is that right? Correct.
	- *(If Family member, confirm:)* Are you a family member of a Veteran? Are you also a Veteran yourself?
	- Thanks for confirming that.

1. What kind of device are you using today? *(Computer / Tablet / Smartphone)* Laptop.

1. I will be sharing a web page link with you during the session. How would you prefer to receive the URL? I could dictate it to you, or put it in the Zoom chat. *(RECORD)* Zoom Chat would be fine.

1. Do you have any experience with VA health care? I’m in the VA health system now.

1. Do you get disability compensation from VA?  I do not. 

1. Are you familiar with the PACT Act?  I am. 

    - *(If Y)* Have you applied for VA benefits under the PACT Act? No. 
      - *(If Y)* Can you tell me about your experience? *(when, how, results)* I do not get disability compensation. It’s still being reviewed. (The American Legion did the filing). 

    - *(If N)* No problem. You'll learn about it as we go through this session. 


## User Tasks

### Task 1: [Wayfinding] 
If you wanted to learn more about the PACT Act, what would you do? I would go to a web browser and search, PACT ACT (clicked on the first site with PACT ACT title). 

- *RECORD what they do: Google / VA.gov / words looking/searching for: _______________________*


### Task 2: [Open prototype] 


### Task 3: [Go through questions in wizard]
Let's suppose that (Google/VA.gov) led you to the web page that I'm going to show you. I'd like you to try to use it, and please share **your feedback** while you're doing that. I'm interested in your impressions of what you see, any questions that you have, and how you feel about what you're doing. I'd like you to talk to me about what you're thinking and what you plan to do BEFORE selecting anything. I have seen this before and relatives convinced me to apply for benefits. I have a cousin who is a retired Marine and saw something for a registry and we were both stationed at Camp Lejeune, and I got a letter from the VA and they were contacting me because of the water contamination and PACT Act. 

*(RECORD all feedback on questions:)*
- *Intro screen* I would click continue, and 1989 or earlier, no, no, I don’t remember what a C-123 is; I’m not sure, yes, no, yes, clicked continue. 
  - *especially if p doesn't know what the PACT Act is*
- *Service years*
  - *any difficulty selecting an option? Y / N*
   - *(family members who aren't Veterans should answer based on the service of their Veteran family member)*
  - *(if p not sure, ask p what they'd do. then advise to select "both")*
- *Burn Pit questions* 
- *Agent Orange questions* 
- *Radiation question*
- *Camp Lejeune question*


### Task 4: [Results screen--Lejeune or VA Benefit eligibility]
*(RECORD which results screen they see: Lejeune / VA Benefit eligibility / You may be eligible)*
 Exposure to contaminated water for at least 30 days and for me it was 18 months at both Camp Lejeune and New River. 
Please tell me about what you see here. Exposure to contaminated water for at least 30 days and for me it was 18 months at both Camp Lejeune and New River. I would click continue to see other benefits and learn more. 
What does this mean to you?

What would you do now?

*(When all done with feedback on this page...)* Now I'm going to show you a different version of what you might see, which does NOT correspond to your answers to the questions, but I'd like you to take a look at it anyway. (Participant scrolling the new page) It mentions that burn pits and toxic exposures are now added as new presumptive conditions. This would apply to me. I wonder if I served on a ship if this would apply (the participant's uncle was on a ship). That is a question I would have, what is service: in the country, boots on the ground? Unlike Camp Lejeune, does it matter what period you were there, matter? Is there a minimum of time that you have to be there to qualify for the PACT Act is what I’m asking. 
Do you know what presumptive conditions are? Certain types of cancers; prostate, colon, liver. If you were stationed at these locations, your condition is because you served in one of those locations. 

Go ahead and file medical benefits. I would click on “learn what to do next”

Could you please select "Continue"?

  
### Task 5: [Results screen--You may be eligible]
*(If participant notices that locations don't match their answers to the questions asked...)* This is a sample page that doesn't correspond to your answers to the questions. I'd like you to pretend that you served in the Middle East.

Please tell me about what you see here. 

Why do you think you’re seeing this page? 

What does this page mean to you?

What might be unclear to you?

- *(RECORD all comments, especially about the date. Did they notice it? Y/N)*

Could you tell me what "presumptive conditions" are?

- *(If they didn't read the description at the bottom of the page...)* Did you see anything about that on this page?
- Could you please take a look now? 
- *(After they read it...)* What do "presumptive conditions" mean to you?

*RECORD other comments on “You may be eligible for VA benefits” page:* I would click on File a claim and VA health care. Then I would file a supplement.
Do you know what a supplement claim is? I did not do the filing. I saw this 2-3 years ago but I was advised to use the American Legion because it would be confusing, I was told. I don’t have direct experience doing this. 
- *“Learn what to do next” link*


*RECORD comments on “Apply for VA benefits now” page:*
- *New PACT Act conditions accordion*
- *Other Gulf War illnesses accordion*
- *File for disability compensation*
- *Apply for VA health care*


If you saw this page based on the questions you just answered, **how confident are you that you could take action**? I’d like you to rate your confidence level.  

- On a scale from 1 to 7, where 1 is *Not at all confident* and 7 is *Extremely confident*, how confident are you that you could take action based on the information in this page? 7, very confident that I could file and apply for a claim. I would go to the American Legion to do it. The VA contacted me because I put my name on a registry and looked at my records and I met the minimum requirement, and they automatically enrolled me in the VA system. Then I was going to file online but the American Legion filed a claim on my behalf. I didn’t have my medical military records until after and then filed the supplemental after I received my military medical records. Health records took 2 years to receive military records. That is after applying 3 separate times. I called, went online, and 6 months after that I wrote a letter. After 18 months of that, I got my military medical records. The first two times you get a tracking number, and you check online and it just says, “received”. After I sent the letter, it went from received to processed. 

- Why? 

- What might that action be? 

- *(RECORD what they do: Apply for disability / supplemental claim / health care / ________)*?
  
 
## Post-Task Interview - 7 minutes

*Type into #feedback-backchannel: "Any questions you want me to ask?"*

1. What worked *well* for you? The link made it easy to get to this page (file a claim). Being a Vet, the military is precise and when they show you a list of duty questions, that is why I asked in the country or not. When I clicked 1990 (airspace over), that is why I asked in ship or over. 
1. What was *unclear or didn't work well* for you? Yes, the airspace above, I look at that as the aircraft has to land in the country or landed on a ship. I was around a lot of aircraft. It has to land somewhere. I was a parachute rigger. That is why I don’t know what a C-123 is. But I have jumped a lot out of planes. 
1. What would you like to *change or add*? I remember someone saying that it had to be continuous service, but the one for the Middle East, is there a time period (not stated)? Does that also include, offshore like the Gulf, and minimum time serving on a ship? 
There are other conditions that are not on this web list but may be added later. I just know that some conditions that we Vets have, are not on the list but were added, and to let the VA know so that in the future and there is another list, those conditions might be on that list. 
For example, my uncle did not get his Vietnam benefits until after he passed, his family did but not the Vet. 
1. Is there anything else that we haven't talked about that you think I should know? 

## Thank You and Closing - 3 minutes

