# Notes: PACT Act Wizard Usability Testing

## Warm-up Questions - 5 minutes
Let’s start with a few questions... 

1.	I understand you are a (*Veteran / Family member).* Is that right? 
- Yes I am a Veteran.
	- *(If Family member, confirm:)* Are you a family member of a Veteran? Are you also a Veteran yourself?
	- Thanks for confirming that.

1. What kind of device are you using today? *(Computer / Tablet / Smartphone)*
- Laptop.
1. I will be sharing a web page link with you during the session. How would you prefer to receive the URL? I could dictate it to you, or put it in the Zoom chat. *(RECORD)* 
- Zoom chat should be fine. 
1. Do you have any experience with VA health care? 
- Yes, currently enrolled
1. Do you get disability compensation from VA?
- Yes
1. Are you familiar with the PACT Act?  
- Yes
    - *(If Y)* Have you applied for VA benefits under the PACT Act?
-So, it’s weird for me because I have one disability that falls under the PACT Act but it doesn’t qualify me. I have a precancerous condition from the PACT Act but I was not in Vietnam. What I have been diagnosed with doesn’t fall under the PACT Act. 
      - *(If Y)* Can you tell me about your experience? *(when, how, results)*

    - *(If N)* No problem. You'll learn about it as we go through this session. 


## User Tasks

### Task 1: [Wayfinding] 
If you wanted to learn more about the PACT Act, what would you do?
- I would go to the VA’s website and look up PACT Act information and different areas it would apply to me. 
- *RECORD what they do: Google / VA.gov / words looking/searching for: _______________________*
-Search bar, typed in VA.gov. Scrolled over to search and clicked PACT Act. 

### Task 2: [Open prototype] 


### Task 3: [Go through questions in wizard]
Let's suppose that (Google/VA.gov) led you to the web page that I'm going to show you. I'd like you to try to use it, and please share **your feedback** while you're doing that. I'm interested in your impressions of what you see, any questions that you have, and how you feel about what you're doing. I'd like you to talk to me about what you're thinking and what you plan to do BEFORE selecting anything.

*(RECORD all feedback on questions:)*
- *Intro screen*-
  - *especially if p doesn't know what the PACT Act is*
- *Service years* -1989 or earlier. ( then the participant was confused and second-guessed himself at checking 1990 or later). I guess I would say 1989 or earlier if your question is, “When did you begin serving?”.  (Participant clicked, served both of those years, ultimately). 
Next question? - I have not been read out of a classified question. I cannot confirm or deny.  (Participant would not be able to answer that question with an audience or not because of the classification)
  - *any difficulty selecting an option? Y / N* 
-Yes, I joined in 1989 but does military training and tech training include 1989? You're really not in the military until you’re done with training. 1990 or later, I finished tech training and in 1989 I was in basic training. Are they looking at this as military service years. 
   - *(family members who aren't Veterans should answer based on the service of their Veteran family member)*
  - *(if p not sure, ask p what they'd do. then advise to select "both")*
- *Burn Pit questions* -No
- *Agent Orange questions* -No
- *Radiation question* -No
- *Camp Lejeune question* -No
-(Because participant did something classified, he answered, no to the questions). 


### Task 4: [Results screen--Lejeune or VA Benefit eligibility]
*(RECORD which results screen they see: Lejeune / VA Benefit eligibility / You may be eligible)*- I can not click on learn more. 
 
-Please tell me about what you see here. – At this point here, I would still want to learn more. Because what I have seen so far is the Korean conflict. I joined after 1989 and saw more conflicts, like the Desert Storm.
-I would be curious if any of those would impact me. I would want to learn about disability compensation. 
-I was in Turkey for a year (stationed there), and I was eligible for combat pay. 
_ In the past few years, I have been diagnosed with a pre-cancerous disease that may have been linked to other chemicals. Not sure if it’s related. 
Years in Service? 
-Active time 23 years, left the Guard 2010/2011 December. 
What does this mean to you?
-My background is blue-collar, and I was not comfortable with taking benefits that didn’t really apply to me. But during my out-processing, we had a brief and we had an individual that said, “ I know where you’re coming from, do it for your family and the sacrifices they made” That changed my mind; I was not going to apply for disability. But that statement changed my mind. 
What would you do now?

*(When all done with feedback on this page...)* Now I'm going to show you a different version of what you might see, which does NOT correspond to your answers to the questions, but I'd like you to take a look at it anyway. 

Could you please select "Continue"?

  
### Task 5: [Results screen--You may be eligible]
*(If participant notices that locations don't match their answers to the questions asked...)* This is a sample page that doesn't correspond to your answers to the questions. I'd like you to pretend that you served in the Middle East.

Please tell me about what you see here. 
– For me personally, it does not apply because I was not in those areas. For other people that I know who served in that area, this might apply to them. 

Why do you think you’re seeing this page? 
– I would see this page because during those times I was deployed to one of those areas and may have been exposed to burn pits. 

What does this page mean to you?

What might be unclear to you? 
– Maybe actually state the total country of Iraq in the list of locations. Kuwait, I know they’re burn pits and that is not included there. List seems kind of vague. I’m an IT person and I might include a link to a map here.
If someone was on a ship?
- If people who designate these areas that it include ship/naval areas, they should be included. 
*Is it curious to have the date there?*
 - I don’t know the exact date but should have a date of when we went. 

- *(RECORD all comments, especially about the date. Did they notice it? Y/N)*

Could you tell me what "presumptive conditions" are?
 – We assumed that you were here at this time and probably were exposed to whatever, so, if you are diagnosed with certain diseases that should be indicative of exposure during that time. 
- *(If they didn't read the description at the bottom of the page...)* Did you see anything about that on this page?
- Could you please take a look now? 
- *(After they read it...)* What do "presumptive conditions" mean to you? 
-For my case, I have been diagnosed with a disease that may have been due to Agent Orange, but I did not have exposure to Agent Orange. My father had exposure, could that be genetic?


*RECORD other comments on “You may be eligible for VA benefits” page:*
- *“Learn what to do next” link*- Participant clicked “learn what to do next”


*RECORD comments on “Apply for VA benefits now” page:*
- *New PACT Act conditions accordion*
- *Other Gulf War illnesses accordion*
- *File for disability compensation*
- *Apply for VA health care* 
- I would apply for disability benefits, health care, for Gulf War illnesses, (participant scrolled down the page). So, in my particular condition which is MGUS is not included in the service in Turkey. (Participant clicked, “learn more”)


If you saw this page based on the questions you just answered, **how confident are you that you could take action**? I’d like you to rate your confidence level.  

- On a scale from 1 to 7, where 1 is *Not at all confident* and 7 is *Extremely confident*, how confident are you that you could take action based on the information in this page? 
- At this point, I already know I can’t get anything under the PACT Act. For someone who may qualify, it may be a 5 or 6. In my case, for me a 1 (because the participant has already done the investigation). 

- Why? 

- What might that action be? 

- *(RECORD what they do: Apply for disability / supplemental claim / health care / ________)*?
  
 
## Post-Task Interview - 7 minutes

*Type into #feedback-backchannel: "Any questions you want me to ask?"*

1.	What worked *well* for you?
- I like the way they broke down the PACT ACT, time, and places. If my dad were alive today, I would try and convince him (to apply for PACT ACT). I think if he was alive today, he could have been convinced to apply, (participant believes his condition is due to his father’s service in Vietnam) ***session went over***
1. What was *unclear or didn't work well* for you?
1. What would you like to *change or add*?
1. Is there anything else that we haven't talked about that you think I should know? 

## Thank You and Closing - 3 minutes
