# Notes: PACT Act Wizard Usability Testing

## Warm-up Questions - 5 minutes
Let’s start with a few questions... 

1.	Veteran?
•	I am ( Veteran).

1.	What kind of device are you using today? 
•	Laptop.

1.	Do you have any experience with VA health care? 
•	 Yes

1.	Do you get disability compensation from VA?
•	Yes.

1.	Are you familiar with the PACT Act?  
•	I know what it is but it doesn’t really apply to me. 



## User Tasks

### Task 1: [Wayfinding] 
If you wanted to learn more about the PACT Act, what would you do?

•	Type in Pact Act in the address bar. Clicked, Pact Act 2023. Clicked on law Legal website. 

### Task 2: [Open prototype] 
•	Well, I would read the couple paragraphs and act accordingly. 


### Task 3: [Go through questions in wizard]

*(RECORD all feedback:)*
- *Intro screen*
  
- *Service years*
•	1989 or earlier (no questions) Yes, Vietnam, 
- *Burn Pit questions*
•	No
- *Agent Orange questions* 
•	No
- *Radiation question* 
•	No
- *Camp Lejeune question* 
•	No


### Task 4: [Results screen--Lejeune or VA Benefit eligibility]
 
Please tell me about what you see here. 
•	I see a bunch of locations and if served there, you might be eligible for PACT Act. And I see 1990, you might be eligible for something. 
•	Because I typed in the URL and based on my responses, I might be eligible for benefits. That makes sense. 

What does this mean to you?
•	For the most part, this page deals with burn pits. If you were of low ranked, you got signed to that task. I was an NCO and I was never bothered with it. The Gi’s that were manning them probably ingested that and who knows what else. 
What would you do now?

  
### Task 5: [Results screen--You may be eligible]

Please tell me about what you see here. 

Why do you think you’re seeing this page? 

What does this page mean to you?

What might be unclear to you?

Could you tell me what "presumptive conditions" are?
•	The government or VA will assume that if you come down with certain illnesses or diseases and served in these its because of it. 
•	Clicked on “what to do next”? This page is nothing more than, they think I qualify, and I can file a claim, file for healthcare, they have other like burn pit or gulf war. 
•	All the benefits available under the PACT Act, I have already taken advantage of. 
•	Had I not been involved in the VA, I would have read about it or seen it on the news. I would never thought that I have diabetes from being in Vietnam. 
•	I was in college after the military, and I needed a ride and I asked Bob (brother -in -law) and he was going to run to the VA. I asked him what the VA was. 
•	My brother-in-law told me that I should file for VA benefits, and I signed everything and maybe about 3-4 weeks later, I got a notification that I qualified. I so shocked (applied in 2004 or 2005). 
•	Healthcare started immediately. Took a week or two that I was 70% and the lady that helped me appealed the decision and got me to 100% service connected. 
•	When I was discharged, I was given a final check, returned my ID and I started driving back to Washington. I had never heard of the VA. We were never given any information about contacting anyone. 5-6 years, I had never heard a thing about it. 

How would you figure out which conditions related to your heart condition are relevant to PACT Act?
•	I found out that 5 or 6 things presumptive that would qualify me. I have now seen that many more conditions are connected but those don’t apply to me. Clicked on “learn more” it then takes me to a different page and asks me questions if I’m eligible for VA health care benefits (participant read off the links). 

When asked participant to return to previous page? 
•	Gulf War illness are associated with stationed in Iraq, Afghanistan and certain locations during certain time periods. 

If you saw this page based on the questions you just answered, **how confident are you that you could take action**? I’d like you to rate your confidence level.  


- On a scale from 1 to 7, where 1 is *Not at all confident* and 7 is *Extremely confident*, how confident are you that you could take action based on the information in this page? 
•	I don’t think it would be difficult. I would say 4 or 5 area. 

- Why? 

- What might that action be? 
•	Knowing what I know now, I would go back to the VA and ask them. 

What would you do now? 
•	That I might be one of those people and how do I find out that’s the case. 

Would you apply for benefits? 
•	If I didn’t have benefits, I would absolutely do it. But I have benefits, and I don’t see why I would. 

Publicity about Pact act? 
•	I don’t think it affected anything that I was currently doing other than the fact that they listed all of these other things and I thought, oh my god, how can you be at one of these horrible places and not get one of these illnesses. 
•	None of my providers have mentioned the PACT Act to me at all. 
 
## Post-Task Interview - 7 minutes

1.	What worked *well* for you?
All of it.

1.	What was *unclear or didn't work well* for you?
•	No. Other than clicking on links to find other things of that subject. It’s all very clear. 

1.	What would you like to *change or add*?
•	I don’t think so. 

1.	Is there anything else that we haven't talked about that you think I should know?
•	Prior to discharge, I think all these that are widely known should be explained to GI’s that are getting discharged. If my brother-in-law had not told me about the VA, I probably would not be a patient now. Well maybe from seeing all this PACT Act stuff I would apply under the PACT Act. 
