# Notes: PACT Act Wizard Usability Testing

## Warm-up Questions - 5 minutes
Let’s start with a few questions... 

1.	Veteran?
•	Yes, Veteran

1.	What kind of device are you using today? 
•	Computer, desktop.

1.	Where would you like the URL sent? 
•	Either one is fine. Zoom chat.

1	Do you have any experience with VA health care? 
•	Not really except with my brother who is 70% disabled from Vietnam. I retired from another federal benefits that is good. I have not had any services from the VA. I am not getting disabilities from the VA. 
•	I’m interested in caregiving, my wife has MS and I just talked to a state benefits counselor. 

1.	Do you get disability compensation from VA?


1.	Are you familiar with the PACT Act?  
•	No. Not eligible for PACT Act. 



## User Tasks

### Task 1: [Wayfinding] 
If you wanted to learn more about the PACT Act, what would you do?
•	Well frankly I have read much about the PACT Act online, that is where I get most of my information. I’m also part of a Veterans association and we talk a lot about it there. 
•	On AOL they have news articles and I picked that up and may have received an email from the VA. But I don’t remember to be honest. 
•	Today I would do a search online; searched PACT and clicked 2022 presumptive conditions, then I’m particular what I do, I’m looking for a .gov website. I’m always going to start with VA.gov URL. 
•	I have friends with Agent Orange, our son was in Iraq. I would go no further than this because of what I know from the past. 

### Task 2: [Open prototype] 


### Task 3: [Go through questions in wizard]

*(RECORD all feedback:)*
- *Intro screen*
•	I’m being doubtful this applies to me because I was a Navy Officer on ship. 
  
- *Service years*
•	Not appropriate answer for me, then clicked 1989 or earlier after having to get frustrated with myself. I tend to read through stuff quicker than I should and make assumptions, I didn’t try to make sense of that. 
•	If it said 1990 to present or 1989 or earlier would be more clear for me. For some reason I got those two confused. 


- *Burn Pit questions* 
•	No. I did not serve in Vietnam but my ship took material to Marines there and then left. Only for brief periods of times.

- *Agent Orange questions*
•	No.

- *Radiation question*
•	No.  I don’t think a lot of people know what  C-123 are. A little explanation of that it is would be helpful.  I know just in passing what a C-123 is, maybe transportation for the Airforce. You must have specific knowledge of those to know what a C-123 is.

- *Camp Lejeune question*
•	No. I have not been to either of those places. 


### Task 4: [Results screen--Lejeune or VA Benefit eligibility]
 
Please tell me about what you see here. 
•	Learn more about  VA benefit eligibility. 

What does this mean to you?
•	Could still be eligible for but VA doesn’t want to discourage you. If I were seriously looking, disability eligibility is what I’m interested but I don’t think I would be eligible for. I only served for a few years. 

What would you do now?
•	Click on disability compensation eligibility and VA health care eligibility. 
  
### Task 5: [Results screen--You may be eligible]

Please tell me about what you see here. 
•	I would always check URL to make sure I’m on the VA.gov. 

Why do you think you’re seeing this page? 
•	This is the gulf war situation though it could be army and navy both. 


What does this page mean to you?
•	I’m familiar with presumptive conditions because of my brother. (P10 read off the page).

What might be unclear to you?
•	Makes me a little confused here, simple presence determines eligibility. because it’s talking about condition not presence. 
•	I understand that maybe happening and make want to carry forward. 

Could you tell me what "presumptive conditions" are?
•	Are a lot of medical issues, diseases, symptoms that are brought on not just by exposure like smoking: lung cancer. Even though there is no proof like Agent Orange, presuming from where stationed. 
•	I knew that already. The last paragraph is a good explanation of what it is. 
•	I would click here for “Apply for VA healthcare” and learn more about healthcare eligibility and click on that (I didn’t realize that it took me further down to the page). 

Did you expect to start applying from clicking on the link*? 
•	I’m not surprised that there’s an option to get more information on it. 
•	I’m a Vietnam era veteran not a Vietnam Veteran and you have to read that you had exposure to Agent Orange and burn pits. This doesn’t apply to every Veteran because there’s a lot of Vietnam Era Veterans not, Vietnam Veteran. 
•	I do not get Medicaid benefits, I do have Medicare. This makes me pay attention because I really need information about that. 

If you saw this page based on the questions you just answered, **how confident are you that you could take action**? I’d like you to rate your confidence level.  

- On a scale from 1 to 7, where 1 is *Not at all confident* and 7 is *Extremely confident*, how confident are you that you could take action based on the information in this page? 
•	7
- Why? 
•	Based on the pages I have filled out past.

- What might that action be? 

  Fill out the healthcare application. 
 
## Post-Task Interview - 7 minutes

1.	What worked *well* for you?
•	We are lucky to have pages like this is helpful. The VA does a good job of putting information out.

1.	What was *unclear or didn't work well* for you?
•	It’s clear to me that you must have been in those places to apply for PACT Act. I don’t think anything was confusing.

1.	What would you like to *change or add*?
•	We don’t want to be writing beyond our audience.

1.	Is there anything else that we haven't talked about that you think I should know?


