# Notes: PACT Act Wizard Usability Testing

## Warm-up Questions - 5 minutes
Let’s start with a few questions... 

1.	Veteran?
•	Yes, Veteran. 

1.	What kind of device are you using today? 
•	iPhone (switched from his computer).
Easier in the zoom chat (URL sent).

1.	Do you have any experience with VA health care? 
•	Very little. I retired in 2006 and only applied to the VA about a month ago. I got a package that I’m signed up as of yesterday and I’m working with a VSO.

1.	Do you get disability compensation from VA?
•	I have not applied yet. 
•	My primary care provider gave me a hard time that I had not yet applied to the VA. I thought you had to be wounded to apply. (P9 stated it was a “pride issue”). 
•	I think the second followed the first and I have a lot of things that are wrong, and they are getting worse, I knew the help was there I just didn’t ask for help. 

1.	Are you familiar with the PACT Act?  
•	Yes. I applied just recently. I have not heard anything back. (P9 applied last week). 

## User Tasks

### Task 1: [Wayfinding] 
If you wanted to learn more about the PACT Act, what would you do?
•	I would search online. Use Google or Bing. Then I would probably go to Twitter and see what other Veterans would say. 
•	Look at the link from the VA and click on it. 

### Task 2: [Open prototype] 



### Task 3: [Go through questions in wizard]

*(RECORD all feedback:)*
- *Intro screen*
•	Seems perfectly clear. I would hit continue. 
- *Service years*
•	1990 or later, during both of these, served in Iraq, briefly visited Somalia, never served in DMZ or Vietnam, No, NO C-123 (no personal experience but P9 knows the aircraft). 

- *Burn Pit questions* 
- *Agent Orange questions*
•	No

- *Radiation question*
•	No

- *Camp Lejeune question*
•	Yes, time at both of those places. 


### Task 4: [Results screen--Lejeune or VA Benefit eligibility]
 
Please tell me about what you see here. 
•	I might be eligible. From those, presumptive locations. 

What does this mean to you?
•	Click, “learn what to do next”.

What would you do now?
•	I would think because they want to very of the places I went and want to verify. It’s giving you a yes or no if you have filed and if you were denied, it tells you what to do. 

  
### Task 5: [Results screen--You may be eligible]

Please tell me about what you see here. 

Why do you think you’re seeing this page? 

What does this page mean to you?

What might be unclear to you?

Could you tell me what "presumptive conditions" are?
•	I would think that I would look for information that showed conditions that served those locations, and I can look to see and determine. I assume the reason is because enough Veterans showed conditions from those locations that they served and bad developments from serving in those areas. 
•	That’s just it, nothing that I’m aware of. I’m also signed up for Camp Lajune when I served there. I see that as a presumptive condition. 
If a presumptive condition appeared, what would you do? 
•	I would come back to the VA and report it. 


If you saw this page based on the questions you just answered, **how confident are you that you could take action**? I’d like you to rate your confidence level.  

- On a scale from 1 to 7, where 1 is *Not at all confident* and 7 is *Extremely confident*, how confident are you that you could take action based on the information in this page? 
•	6. 

- Why? 
•	Because it’s clear to me that I can take action. Afterwards I would only give it a 7 if I got the responses I was looking for. 
- What might that action be? 
•	Applied for supplemental and apply for VA healthcare. I used these recently because I recently applied. 
•	I applied for VA healthcare and 48 hours later I got a call to verify who I was and that I served. She got me signed up but not for the PACT Act. First, I need to sign up for my first care visit and then I’m on a list and speak to someone about the PACT Act specifically. 
•	I love that they have the crisis hotline, that’s brilliant. (P9 has not used it but he has lost some friends).  
 
## Post-Task Interview - 7 minutes

1.	What worked *well* for you?
•	I find it logical. Theres a clear button that takes me to the next question. 
•	The back button takes you right back. 

1.	What was *unclear or didn't work well* for you?
•	I haven’t seen it here but there were originally when I clicked on a link it had a deadline. That is confusing. I would think that no matter when decided to file, there shouldn’t be a deadline. 
•	I have to speak to someone that handles exposure (the next step in his application)

1.	What would you like to *change or add*?
•	What would improve this if there’s more VA involvement when Marines are getting out. I retired and I had no idea that you had to transfer the GI bill and I lost that. 

1.	Is there anything else that we haven't talked about that you think I should know*?
•	I don’t. It makes it harder for the Veteran if there’s a lot of questions to answer. There are no sub questions. 
•	If I did serve around that (C-123) aircraft- you either knew if you or you didn’t if you were around because service members know their equipment. 

 
