# Conversation Guide Template for Moderated Research

## Moderator logistics

*Use [#feedback-backchannel](https://dsva.slack.com/messages/C40B45NJK/details/) in Slack for real-time feedback from observers.*

*Mute your Slack notifications*

*Before the session, send out the [observer instructions](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/blob/master/platform/research/during-research/howto-observer-instructions.md) to your observers (Slackbot will do this for you if you type "observer instructions" into [#feedback-backchannel](https://dsva.slack.com/channels/feedback-backchannel)).*

*In the Attendees section, make sure everyone except the participant is on mute.*

*In the Audio section, click the drop-down arrow and make sure "Play Entry/Exit Chimes" is unchecked*

*Check your [screensharing setup] and share permissions for participants.*

*When the participant is ready, begin the session with the following intro*

### Project-specific setup

- [ ] Ensure participant has been emailed the correct staging link and fake username/password: https://staging.va.gov/virtual-agent-study/ 


## Intro - 5 minutes

Thanks for joining us today! My name is [Shane Strassberg] and I also have some colleagues on the line observing and taking notes. Today we're going to talk about and interact with our VA Virtual Agent chatbot currently in development. Last year we ran a proof of value study to gauge interest in a chatbot for Veterans, and your input today will directly impact the future development of this tool to help Vets better self-serve and get faster outcomes to their questions.

Before we start, a few things I want to mention:

- **This entire session should take about [30-45 min].** I want to be sure not to keep you much longer, so I may occasionally prompt you with the next question or topic.
- **In this session, we want to hear your honest opinions.** We are not testing your knowledge or ability to use chatbots. We just want to improve these tools to better meet Veteran's needs. I will not be offended by any opinions you express, and I welcome your honest feedback.
- [IF APPROPRIATE:] **You'll be interacting with a prototype chatbot.** This prototype chatbot may not function exactly the way you expect. Some areas of the prototype will be clickable, and some will not. Since it's a prototype, none of your actions will affect your actual VA information or benefits.
- **If for any reason and at any time you want to stop the session, please let me know.** 
- **Are you comfortable if I record my screen and audio as we talk today?** We use the recordings to confirm that we have captured your opinions accurately. The recordings are destroyed after we complete analysis, and none of your comments will be attributed to you directly. 
    - If yes: **Once I start recording, I am going to confirm that you are ok with me recording this session once more.** 

*Start recording.*

- **I have started recording**. I'd like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record my screen and the audio as we talk today? 

## Warm-up Questions (Optional) - 5 minutes

Before we look at the prototype, let’s start with a few warm-up questions.

- What's has your general experience with chatbots been like?
	- somewhat helpful. you have to ask the right questions. many times you want to talk to a real person wen you get tired of using it.
- When you need general VA information, what actions do you normally take?
	- Normally, va website, question in google rather than navigate the site. hard to get folks on phone.
	- reach out to another vet. rather than contacting the va.
	- why? honestly, i just feel more comfortable talking to a vet or googling myself. the va here... there're not very helpful. i don't know how to get to someone directly.
- When you need specific information about yourself from the VA, what actions do you normally take?
	- Organization in Alabama. Helps navigate claims.
	- they helped me get the info needed. very helpful.
	- i did have to give my name, social, not much else. had to sign a consent form. simple process. track my claim. break it down for me.


*Background info about the participant should have been provided by Coordinator already, so use this time to ask any other questions that you feel will help with the session. This warm-up is not required*

## First Task: [Screen Share] - 1-2 minutes

- I'd like you to share your screen with me. Can you click on the green share screen button, located at the bottom middle of the Zoom window.
- Please select your desktop window to share so we can be sure to see the web browser you're using.

### Things to watch for:

- Are they able to find the share screen button?
	- She had it up before we had finished the instructions.

## Second Task: [Open Chatbot URL] - 2-3 minutes

- You should have just received a link to your provided email to access the chatbot. Can you please open it now? 
	- some small troubles getting to this point.
- Can you take a moment to familiarize yourself with the webpage you just opened?
	- thorough review of text.
- Next I'd like you to use the provided username and password from the same email to sign into to the chatbot.
	- smooth process.
	- redirect to home, rather than virtual agent study page.
- Take a moment to read the intro text and let me know if it is clear or if there is anything confusing. 
	- "I'm accepting the rules to talk with the bot?"
- What do you think about the crisis disclaimer?

### Things to watch for:

- Are they able to find the provided link and open it. If not we can dictate the url or in worst case, share our screen and sign in to demo the tool.
- Do they sign in using the button in the chatbot or the regular sign in button on the upper right corner of the webpage?
	- chatbot
- Do they read the intro text to the chatbot?
	- yes.

## Third Task: [Ask General Question] - 5 minutes

- Now that you have read the intro text, I'd like you to ask the chatbot a general question about benefits. Please type in "Am I eligible for health benefits"
	- done.
- Next copy and paste which response you would like to view for a link, preview or full chatbot response.
	- (FULL)
- Please take a moment to read the chatbot response and click any links that may be relevant to your question. What do you think about the info provided? Is it helpful? Why or why not? If not, what would you expect to see as a response instead?
	- Full is better than a link. Everything you need, including links from the article.
	- More questions answered? Call first, then "Request a representative".
- Please copy/paste the next view you want to read
	- (PREVIEW) Helpful?  Yes. Short and sweet. Here's the article link. likes the layout of the page more than the full response in chat window. "font is kind of smaller in chatbox." full page layout seems more organized, less cramped
- And lastly please copy/paste the remaining view to read the response.
	- (LINK) prefers preview to this. "it gives you a little info to get you going. short and sweet." "might be all someone needs" preview provides just enough context.

### Things to watch for:

- Which view do they choose and in what order?
	- full, preview, 
- Do they automatically click provided links in the response?

## Fourth Task: [Ask 2nd General Question] - 5 minutes

- Please ask the chatbot another general topic question.
	- "Do I qualify for education benefits?"
	- There may be a general question that would make the bot answer correctly.
	- "What is chapter 33 benefits?"
	- **Searched google to verify bot's response. "I don't think it was correct." response was medical. expected education benefits.**
	- Click link for va benefits. **probably not ask the bot again**.
	- Bot did get me to the education page originally.
- Please take a moment to read the chatbot response and click any links that may be relevant to your question. What do you think about the info provided? Is it helpful? Why or why not? If not, what would you expect to see as a response instead?

### Things to watch for:

- Does the participant use a whole question or keywords?
	- whole questions usually.
- Do they automatically click provided links in the response?
	- awaits instruction most times

## Fifth Task: [Ask about Claims] - 5 minutes

- Ok, now I'd like you to ask the chatbot about the status of your fake users disability claim.
- Please take a moment to read the chatbot response. What do you think about the info provided? Is it helpful? Why or why not? If not, what would you expect to see as a response instead?
	- "really neat". useful information, may have forgotten date need rep, they're there.
- What step would you take next based on the buttons provided in the chat window? Why would you choose that button?
	- (see next claim)
	- (link claim and appeal status page) logged out. back to main page.

### Things to watch for:

- Does the participant click the Speak with agent button? What do they think of the response after they click it?
	- "speaking with a live person?" "possibly to mean the phone" "does it give me a number to call in?"

## Post-Task Interview - 5-10 minutes

- When the bot tells you it does not have the answer, how does it make you feel?
	- "it made me feel like it didn't understand the word qualify, but it was able to pull up the link."
- How do you feel about the voice and tone of the response you received?
	- "it was fine. i didn't feel like the bot was being rude or anything. was overall helpful. I wasn't offended by the bot at all." / "answers are fast... informative... easy to understand."
	- it keeps you from doing a lot of googling. va website has a lot of different links up there, and bot just takes you there.
- If the chatbot couldn't answer your question but could connect you to a live agent chat, would you prefer that over speaking by phone with the VA help desk/contact center?
- Was it clear what all the buttons did (button labels) or where all the links went? Would you rephrase any of the buttons?
- Based on your experience today, are you willing to use the chatbot again?
	- Yes. because it's really good helpful technology. you want information fast.
- What additional feature to the chatbot would improve your experience?
	- I didn't use it long enough. I don't know. I wish it would understand a little more speech recognition. southern dialect. i've seen bots with animation. maybe a little soldier"
- Do you have any other feedback you'd like to share?
- Any questions for me? 

## Thank-You and Closing - 2 minutes

Well we really appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us today. Your feedback is so helpful to us as we continue to work on this virtual agent chatbot and make sure it really works for Veterans.

Thanks! Lastly, do you know any other Veterans, caregivers, or service members who might be willing to participate in a future user research session? 
    If Yes: Thank you! I'll have our team send you an email with a little blurb that you can pass along. 

Great, well thank you so much again, and enjoy the rest of your day!

## Sample Conversation Guides _(note: these links point to resources in the va.gov-team GitHub repo)_

- [Scheduling Accessibility and Usability Study: Complex Recruit, Highly Variable based on User Profile](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/blob/master/products/health-care/appointments/research/2017-studies/access-usability/access-usability-conversation-guide.md) 
- [Veteran ID Card Discovery Interview](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/blob/master/products/veteran-id-cards/research/discovery/discovery-conversation-guide.md)
