# Conversation Guide Template for Moderated Research

## Moderator logistics

*Use [#feedback-backchannel](https://dsva.slack.com/messages/C40B45NJK/details/) in Slack for real-time feedback from observers.*

*Mute your Slack notifications*

*Before the session, send out the [observer instructions](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/blob/master/platform/research/during-research/howto-observer-instructions.md) to your observers (Slackbot will do this for you if you type "observer instructions" into [#feedback-backchannel](https://dsva.slack.com/channels/feedback-backchannel)).*

*In the Attendees section, make sure everyone except the participant is on mute.*

*In the Audio section, click the drop-down arrow and make sure "Play Entry/Exit Chimes" is unchecked*

*Check your [screensharing setup] and share permissions for participants.*

*When the participant is ready, begin the session with the following intro*

### Project-specific setup

- [ ] Ensure participant has been emailed the correct staging link and fake username/password: https://staging.va.gov/virtual-agent-study/ 


## Intro - 5 minutes

Thanks for joining us today! My name is [Shane Strassberg] and I also have some colleagues on the line observing and taking notes. Today we're going to talk about and interact with our VA Virtual Agent chatbot currently in development. Last year we ran a proof of value study to gauge interest in a chatbot for Veterans, and your input today will directly impact the future development of this tool to help Vets better self-serve and get faster outcomes to their questions.

Before we start, a few things I want to mention:

- **This entire session should take about [30-45 min].** I want to be sure not to keep you much longer, so I may occasionally prompt you with the next question or topic.
- **In this session, we want to hear your honest opinions.** We are not testing your knowledge or ability to use chatbots. We just want to improve these tools to better meet Veteran's needs. I will not be offended by any opinions you express, and I welcome your honest feedback.
- [IF APPROPRIATE:] **You'll be interacting with a prototype chatbot.** This prototype chatbot may not function exactly the way you expect. Some areas of the prototype will be clickable, and some will not. Since it's a prototype, none of your actions will affect your actual VA information or benefits.
- **If for any reason and at any time you want to stop the session, please let me know.** 
- **Are you comfortable if I record my screen and audio as we talk today?** We use the recordings to confirm that we have captured your opinions accurately. The recordings are destroyed after we complete analysis, and none of your comments will be attributed to you directly. 
    - If yes: **Once I start recording, I am going to confirm that you are ok with me recording this session once more.** 

*Start recording.*

- **I have started recording**. I'd like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record my screen and the audio as we talk today? 

## Warm-up Questions (Optional) - 5 minutes

Before we look at the prototype, let’s start with a few warm-up questions.

- What's has your general experience with chatbots been like? 
    - Used chat technologies 'quite a bit' to talk to VA representatives
- When you need general VA information, what actions do you normally take?
    - Very familiar with various resources and the multiple avenues to get info -- volunteers with an org to connect vets to resources
    - Start with Google and scan for va.gov links (VA.gov is trusted, legitimate source for participant)
    - Fits self-server archetype: Very savvy with Google e.g. compare multiple suggestions and rephrase search query if can't find info they desire
    - Phone calls are a secondary/backup resource (knew the claims phone number by heart)
- When you need specific information about yourself from the VA, what actions do you normally take?
    - Knows enough about VA systems to not need to ask information specific to themself

*Background info about the participant should have been provided by Coordinator already, so use this time to ask any other questions that you feel will help with the session. This warm-up is not required*

## First Task: [Screen Share] - 1-2 minutes

- I'd like you to share your screen with me. Can you click on the green share screen button, located at the bottom middle of the Zoom window.
- Please select your desktop window to share so we can be sure to see the web browser you're using.

### Things to watch for:

- Are they able to find the share screen button? 
    - Took a minute

## Second Task: [Open Chatbot URL] - 2-3 minutes

- You should have just received a link to your provided email to access the chatbot. Can you please open it now? 
- Can you take a moment to familiarize yourself with the webpage you just opened?
- Next I'd like you to use the provided username and password from the same email to sign into to the chatbot.
- Take a moment to read the intro text and let me know if it is clear or if there is anything confusing. 
- What do you think about the crisis disclaimer?
    - Makes sense

### Things to watch for:

- Are they able to find the provided link and open it. If not we can dictate the url or in worst case, share our screen and sign in to demo the tool.
- Do they sign in using the button in the chatbot or the regular sign in button on the upper right corner of the webpage?
- Do they read the intro text to the chatbot?
    - No, zoom amount was too high so it was out of view upon chatbot load
- Additional notes
    - Participant needed guidance arounnd login , so we dictated which sign in button to use
    - Needed involved guidance in general with navigating the chatbot as well as desktop management- unable to zoom out so screen real estate was cramped and participant could only see 2-3 chat bubbles at a time and claims buttons stacked vertically
    - Qualify guidelines for what the chatbot can answer shown on the study page - "You can type in any question *except* the ones listed below (e.g. crisis management)"
    - Uses spellcheck plugin

## Third Task: [Ask General Question] - 5 minutes

- Now that you have read the intro text, I'd like you to ask the chatbot a general question about benefits. Please type in "Am I eligible for health benefits"
- Next copy and paste which response you would like to view for a link, preview or full chatbot response.
- Please take a moment to read the chatbot response and click any links that may be relevant to your question. What do you think about the info provided? Is it helpful? Why or why not? If not, what would you expect to see as a response instead?
- Please copy/paste the next view you want to read
- And lastly please copy/paste the remaining view to read the response.

### Things to watch for:

- Which view do they choose and in what order?
    - Preview
        - Adjust language to reference 'active duty.' Feels that the preview format is unclear.
        - Felt that the CTA to the full article was helpful, and found info in article sufficient 
- Do they automatically click provided links in the response?
    - Yes

## Fourth Task: [Ask 2nd General Question] - 5 minutes

- Please ask the chatbot another general topic question.
    - "Can my spouse get VA benefits?" to encompass a myriad of benefits (education, health, burial etc.)
- Please take a moment to read the chatbot response and click any links that may be relevant to your question. What do you think about the info provided? Is it helpful? Why or why not? If not, what would you expect to see as a response instead?
    - "No, it's off track." Response is not specific enough to spouse -- response provides link to general Education & Training Benefits page. Also not comprehensive of the diversity of benefits a spouse could receive
    - Upon visit to linked page, noticed a reference to benefits for 'qualifying family members' and noted that is still not specific enough to answer question about *spouse*

### Things to watch for:

- Does the participant use a whole question or keywords?
    - Whole question
- Do they automatically click provided links in the response?
    - Yes

## Fifth Task: [Ask about Claims] - 5 minutes

- Ok, now I'd like you to ask the chatbot about the status of your fake users disability claim.
- Please take a moment to read the chatbot response. What do you think about the info provided? Is it helpful? Why or why not? If not, what would you expect to see as a response instead?
    - Confused by 'See next claim' button - unsure if it will show earlier claim or later claim
    - Suggested that we offer 'See other claim(s)' or 'Previous claim' button to move away from implied chronological sequencing
- What step would you take next based on the buttons provided in the chat window? Why would you choose that button?
    - Expectation that `Speak with agent' button will either a) provide phone number or b) launch new chat in existing chatbox with a real human

### Things to watch for:

- Does the participant click the Speak with agent button? What do they think of the response after they click it?
    - Set expectation that the following experience would not be automated responses, it would be a real human interaction

## Post-Task Interview - 5-10 minutes

- When the bot tells you it does not have the answer, how does it make you feel?
    - Frustrated and disappointed
    - Next steps: first try to rephrase question in bot, and then fall back to prior behaviors (Google, phone calls)
    - Sees this as a 'standard problem solving process'
- How do you feel about the voice and tone of the response you received?
- If the chatbot couldn't answer your question but could connect you to a live agent chat, would you prefer that over speaking by phone with the VA help desk/contact center?
    - Preferred phone for direct dialogue
- Was it clear what all the buttons did (button labels) or where all the links went? Would you rephrase any of the buttons?
    - 'See next claim' => 'See *other/previous* claims' to avoid implied chronological sequencing of claims
    - 'Speak to agent' => 'Speak to *live* agent'
- Based on your experience today, are you willing to use the chatbot again?
    - Yes! In future, may trust it enough to get information I need. This shows "potential for getting information I need quickly, simply and reliably." 
    - Would definitely use chatbot as first resource in info-finding after chatbot goes through a few more rounds of development
- What additional feature to the chatbot would improve your experience?
- Do you have any other feedback you'd like to share?
    - Delighted by the work we are doing
    - "Automated is good, and option to speak with agent is outstanding!"
- Any questions for me? 

## Thank-You and Closing - 2 minutes

Well we really appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us today. Your feedback is so helpful to us as we continue to work on this virtual agent chatbot and make sure it really works for Veterans.

Thanks! Lastly, do you know any other Veterans, caregivers, or service members who might be willing to participate in a future user research session? 
    If Yes: Thank you! I'll have our team send you an email with a little blurb that you can pass along. 

Great, well thank you so much again, and enjoy the rest of your day!

## Sample Conversation Guides _(note: these links point to resources in the va.gov-team GitHub repo)_

- [Scheduling Accessibility and Usability Study: Complex Recruit, Highly Variable based on User Profile](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/blob/master/products/health-care/appointments/research/2017-studies/access-usability/access-usability-conversation-guide.md) 
- [Veteran ID Card Discovery Interview](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/blob/master/products/veteran-id-cards/research/discovery/discovery-conversation-guide.md)
