# Conversation Guide Template for Moderated Research

## Moderator logistics

*Use [#feedback-backchannel](https://dsva.slack.com/messages/C40B45NJK/details/) in Slack for real-time feedback from observers.*

*Mute your Slack notifications*

*Before the session, send out the [observer instructions](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/blob/master/platform/research/during-research/howto-observer-instructions.md) to your observers (Slackbot will do this for you if you type "observer instructions" into [#feedback-backchannel](https://dsva.slack.com/channels/feedback-backchannel)).*

*In the Attendees section, make sure everyone except the participant is on mute.*

*In the Audio section, click the drop-down arrow and make sure "Play Entry/Exit Chimes" is unchecked*

*Check your [screensharing setup] and share permissions for participants.*

*When the participant is ready, begin the session with the following intro*

### Project-specific setup

- [ ] Ensure participant has been emailed the correct staging link and fake username/password: https://staging.va.gov/virtual-agent-study/ 


## Intro - 5 minutes

Thanks for joining us today! My name is [Shane Strassberg] and I also have some colleagues on the line observing and taking notes. Today we're going to talk about and interact with our VA Virtual Agent chatbot currently in development. Last year we ran a proof of value study to gauge interest in a chatbot for Veterans, and your input today will directly impact the future development of this tool to help Vets better self-serve and get faster outcomes to their questions.

Before we start, a few things I want to mention:

- **This entire session should take about [30-45 min].** I want to be sure not to keep you much longer, so I may occasionally prompt you with the next question or topic.
- **In this session, we want to hear your honest opinions.** We are not testing your knowledge or ability to use chatbots. We just want to improve these tools to better meet Veteran's needs. I will not be offended by any opinions you express, and I welcome your honest feedback.
- [IF APPROPRIATE:] **You'll be interacting with a prototype chatbot.** This prototype chatbot may not function exactly the way you expect. Some areas of the prototype will be clickable, and some will not. Since it's a prototype, none of your actions will affect your actual VA information or benefits.
- **If for any reason and at any time you want to stop the session, please let me know.** 
- **Are you comfortable if I record my screen and audio as we talk today?** We use the recordings to confirm that we have captured your opinions accurately. The recordings are destroyed after we complete analysis, and none of your comments will be attributed to you directly. 
    - If yes: **Once I start recording, I am going to confirm that you are ok with me recording this session once more.** 

*Start recording.*

- **I have started recording**. I'd like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record my screen and the audio as we talk today? 

## Warm-up Questions (Optional) - 5 minutes

Before we look at the prototype, let’s start with a few warm-up questions.

- What's has your general experience with chatbots been like? 
	- mixed, generally good. bad when lag between her query and bot's reply. 1-2 minutes isn't acceptable. feels like you're being blown off. has used for retail, order status. (Live chat)
	- with virtual, experience isn't good. terminology is limited, get into a loop of "try this again". will ask for live person at that point.
- When you need general VA information, what actions do you normally take?
	- va.gov website, but will fall back to calling in if she cannot find an answer. "It's just easier".
	- deals with a local office, hasn't had much need to call into the main number.
- When you need specific information about yourself from the VA, what actions do you normally take?
	- website, get into disability arena, try to get call-in number. speak with a person.
	- others of her circle use the vfw.
	- va.gov, logged in, more specific info for her.

*Background info about the participant should have been provided by Coordinator already, so use this time to ask any other questions that you feel will help with the session. This warm-up is not required*

## First Task: [Screen Share] - 1-2 minutes

- I'd like you to share your screen with me. Can you click on the green share screen button, located at the bottom middle of the Zoom window.
- Please select your desktop window to share so we can be sure to see the web browser you're using.

### Things to watch for:

- Are they able to find the share screen button?
	- yes. even with dual monitor setup.

## Second Task: [Open Chatbot URL] - 2-3 minutes

- You should have just received a link to your provided email to access the chatbot. Can you please open it now? 
- Can you take a moment to familiarize yourself with the webpage you just opened?
	- appreciates the crisis line link
- Next I'd like you to use the provided username and password from the same email to sign into to the chatbot.
	- login fine. redirected to homepage, not study page.
- Take a moment to read the intro text and let me know if it is clear or if there is anything confusing. 
	- went thru screens rather quickly. not much feedback
- What do you think about the crisis disclaimer?
	- she loved it. commented without prompting

### Things to watch for:

- Are they able to find the provided link and open it. If not we can dictate the url or in worst case, share our screen and sign in to demo the tool.
- Do they sign in using the button in the chatbot or the regular sign in button on the upper right corner of the webpage?
- Do they read the intro text to the chatbot?

## Third Task: [Ask General Question] - 5 minutes

- Now that you have read the intro text, I'd like you to ask the chatbot a general question about benefits. Please type in "Am I eligible for health benefits"
	- ?
- Next copy and paste which response you would like to view for a link, preview or full chatbot response.
	- (FULL). She loved that it was in plain english. talks about medicare and medicaid. "I like it." "A lot of info to put in a text box". Maybe the link should open in another tab. Tried it. It did.
- Please take a moment to read the chatbot response and click any links that may be relevant to your question. What do you think about the info provided? Is it helpful? Why or why not? If not, what would you expect to see as a response instead?
- Please copy/paste the next view you want to read
	- (PREVIEW) not a great diff between link and preview. use link for new tab, and even bookmark that screen. Full would be hard to save.
- And lastly please copy/paste the remaining view to read the response.

### Things to watch for:

- Which view do they choose and in what order?
- Do they automatically click provided links in the response?

## Fourth Task: [Ask 2nd General Question] - 5 minutes

- Please ask the chatbot another general topic question.
- Please take a moment to read the chatbot response and click any links that may be relevant to your question. What do you think about the info provided? Is it helpful? Why or why not? If not, what would you expect to see as a response instead?

### Things to watch for:

- Does the participant use a whole question or keywords?
	- sentence without punctuation. impressed with response.
- Do they automatically click provided links in the response?
	- yes. impressed with va medical care location map. "I'll be darned. i didn't know we had a va clinic!"
	- most vets she knows will wait until last minute to ask for help.
	- gave me info i didn't know already. easily understandable information.
	- no need for map in chatbox. it's a conversation. don't want to scroll back thru 6 pages. rather have a link. have another question for chatbox. keep that interaction relatively clean.

## Fifth Task: [Ask about Claims] - 5 minutes

- Ok, now I'd like you to ask the chatbot about the status of your fake users disability claim.
	- claim status
	- good to have loading text, know it's doing something.
- Please take a moment to read the chatbot response. What do you think about the info provided? Is it helpful? Why or why not? If not, what would you expect to see as a response instead? 
	- assumed that the speak to an agent button would lead to a phone call. the word "speak" led her there. "live agent chat" would make her think chat window.
	- if i have more than one claim, show them chronologically. "First claim" is ambiguous.
- What step would you take next based on the buttons provided in the chat window? Why would you choose that button?
	- See next claim. thanks for including "one moment, please".
	- check your claims and appeals status.

### Things to watch for:

- Does the participant click the Speak with agent button? What do they think of the response after they click it?

## Post-Task Interview - 5-10 minutes

- When the bot tells you it does not have the answer, how does it make you feel?
- How do you feel about the voice and tone of the response you received?
	- i thought they were an approachable tone. not full of a lot of dub speak. very conversational. not overly casual or stuffy.
- If the chatbot couldn't answer your question but could connect you to a live agent chat, would you prefer that over speaking by phone with the VA help desk/contact center?
- Was it clear what all the buttons did (button labels) or where all the links went? Would you rephrase any of the buttons?
	- yes, clear. rephrase live agent button.
- Based on your experience today, are you willing to use the chatbot again?
	- oh, yes! i like the fact that it answers (not "we don't understand"). clear language, likes the buttons in chat. was responsive.
- What additional feature to the chatbot would improve your experience?
	- no.
- Do you have any other feedback you'd like to share?
	- appreciate the opportunity to interact. appreciate you going out to eh vets, incl. gray-hair brigade. appreciate it. thank you.
- Any questions for me? 
	- no. not at all.

### extra notes

- prefers to talk to a person. (how far can i push the website or bot. if i hit enough roadblocks, talk to a human on the phone.
- wants to self-serve as much as possible. only contact when frustrated with website and virtual assistant.

## Thank-You and Closing - 2 minutes

Well we really appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us today. Your feedback is so helpful to us as we continue to work on this virtual agent chatbot and make sure it really works for Veterans.

Thanks! Lastly, do you know any other Veterans, caregivers, or service members who might be willing to participate in a future user research session? 
    If Yes: Thank you! I'll have our team send you an email with a little blurb that you can pass along. 

Great, well thank you so much again, and enjoy the rest of your day!

## Sample Conversation Guides _(note: these links point to resources in the va.gov-team GitHub repo)_

- [Scheduling Accessibility and Usability Study: Complex Recruit, Highly Variable based on User Profile](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/blob/master/products/health-care/appointments/research/2017-studies/access-usability/access-usability-conversation-guide.md) 
- [Veteran ID Card Discovery Interview](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/blob/master/products/veteran-id-cards/research/discovery/discovery-conversation-guide.md)
