
# Conversation Guide Template for Moderated Research

## Moderator logistics

*Use [#feedback-backchannel](https://dsva.slack.com/messages/C40B45NJK/details/) in Slack for real-time feedback from observers.*

*Mute your Slack notifications*

*Before the session, send out the [observer instructions](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/blob/master/platform/research/during-research/howto-observer-instructions.md) to your observers (Slackbot will do this for you if you type "observer instructions" into [#feedback-backchannel](https://dsva.slack.com/channels/feedback-backchannel)).*

*In the Attendees section, make sure everyone except the participant is on mute.*

*In the Audio section, click the drop-down arrow and make sure "Play Entry/Exit Chimes" is unchecked*

*Check your [screensharing setup] and share permissions for participants.*

*When the participant is ready, begin the session with the following intro*

### Project-specific setup

- [ ] Ensure participant has been emailed the correct staging link and fake username/password: https://staging.va.gov/virtual-agent-study/ 


## Intro - 5 minutes

Thanks for joining us today! My name is [Shane Strassberg] and I also have some colleagues on the line observing and taking notes. Today we're going to talk about and interact with our VA Virtual Agent chatbot currently in development. Last year we ran a proof of value study to gauge interest in a chatbot for Veterans, and your input today will directly impact the future development of this tool to help Vets better self-serve and get faster outcomes to their questions.

Before we start, a few things I want to mention:

- **This entire session should take about [30-45 min].** I want to be sure not to keep you much longer, so I may occasionally prompt you with the next question or topic.
- **In this session, we want to hear your honest opinions.** We are not testing your knowledge or ability to use chatbots. We just want to improve these tools to better meet Veteran's needs. I will not be offended by any opinions you express, and I welcome your honest feedback.
- [IF APPROPRIATE:] **You'll be interacting with a prototype chatbot.** This prototype chatbot may not function exactly the way you expect. Some areas of the prototype will be clickable, and some will not. Since it's a prototype, none of your actions will affect your actual VA information or benefits.
- **If for any reason and at any time you want to stop the session, please let me know.** 
- **Are you comfortable if I record my screen and audio as we talk today?** We use the recordings to confirm that we have captured your opinions accurately. The recordings are destroyed after we complete analysis, and none of your comments will be attributed to you directly. 
    - If yes: **Once I start recording, I am going to confirm that you are ok with me recording this session once more.** 

*Start recording.*

- **I have started recording**. I'd like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record my screen and the audio as we talk today? 

## Warm-up Questions (Optional) - 5 minutes

Before we look at the prototype, let’s start with a few warm-up questions.

- What's has your general experience with chatbots been like? 
	- Both good and bad. Some chatboxes are based on the quality of the person and who is responding to the topics they ares uppoosed to be chatting with me about. I had to call customer service for Univ. of Maryland football tickets after the chatbox wouldn’t allow me to choose the ticket for the four in a row I wanted. It said I had a gap but I didn’t have a gap. It told me to go back and do it again.
- When you need general VA information, what actions do you normally take?
	- Chatbox open for year's follow on for illness. Spoke to a person he knew
	- ebenefits site, scroll thru. then look for contact information: email, phone number, typing is last choice.
	- expects he will get someone who knows answer to what he's looking for.
- When you need specific information about yourself from the VA, what actions do you normally take?
	- No specific stuff on me.

*Background info about the participant should have been provided by Coordinator already, so use this time to ask any other questions that you feel will help with the session. This warm-up is not required*

## First Task: [Screen Share] - 1-2 minutes

- I'd like you to share your screen with me. Can you click on the green share screen button, located at the bottom middle of the Zoom window.
- Please select your desktop window to share so we can be sure to see the web browser you're using.

### Things to watch for:

- Are they able to find the share screen button?
	- had to determine which device to select. otherwise, smooth.

## Second Task: [Open Chatbot URL] - 2-3 minutes

- You should have just received a link to your provided email to access the chatbot. Can you please open it now? 
	- sent / visited
- Can you take a moment to familiarize yourself with the webpage you just opened?
	- Read page thoroughly.
- Next I'd like you to use the provided username and password from the same email to sign into to the chatbot.
	- smooth, appreciated the 2FA
- Take a moment to read the intro text and let me know if it is clear or if there is anything confusing. 
	- you aren't going to leave personal information. Trusted the accept button after reading.
- What do you think about the crisis disclaimer?
	- 

### Things to watch for:

- Are they able to find the provided link and open it. If not we can dictate the url or in worst case, share our screen and sign in to demo the tool.
- Do they sign in using the button in the chatbot or the regular sign in button on the upper right corner of the webpage?
- Do they read the intro text to the chatbot?

## Third Task: [Ask General Question] - 5 minutes

- Now that you have read the intro text, I'd like you to ask the chatbot a general question about benefits. Please type in "Am I eligible for health benefits"
	- 
- Next copy and paste which response you would like to view for a link, preview or full chatbot response.
	- (PREVIEW) basically told me to go to another page, after a basic outline.
- Please take a moment to read the chatbot response and click any links that may be relevant to your question. What do you think about the info provided? Is it helpful? Why or why not? If not, what would you expect to see as a response instead?
	- helpful as initial step.
	- probably click link. (clicks link)
	- read page thoroughly
	- to some degree (helps me find the information i need)
	- thought it would say choose one of the descriptors, expected to see "click here", "choose your circumstance. "Looking for a hotlink"
- Please copy/paste the next view you want to read
	- (LINK) "apprehensive to go for the full description, which is why i picked preview"
	- He prefers the preview link, more closely matches what he'd do in normal course of using va site.
- And lastly please copy/paste the remaining view to read the response.
	- (FULL) reviewed text. "Basically, it's talking about who's not eligible. Disconcerting."
	- Less helpful. Too much text. I'd rather use a decision tree to navigate to get to what i want. 
	- Prefers smaller snippets.

### Things to watch for:

- Which view do they choose and in what order?
- Do they automatically click provided links in the response?

## Fourth Task: [Ask 2nd General Question] - 5 minutes

- Please ask the chatbot another general topic question.
	- is VA covering CLL studies? (No answer from bot) CLL = chronic lymphomatic leukemia
- Please take a moment to read the chatbot response and click any links that may be relevant to your question. What do you think about the info provided? Is it helpful? Why or why not? If not, what would you expect to see as a response instead?
	- Not dissatisfied with answer. next step might be "Can i speak to an agent?"
	- might retype CLL to expand acronym.
	- (does that) Same response, "...doesn't have the answer right now"
	- speak with agent; ask bot to give him agent's contact info.
	- "can i speak with an agent?" ... "ah. good!" / appropriate response
	- Would like to have the bot understand departments for his condition, rather than here's a number to start your search.

### Things to watch for:

- Does the participant use a whole question or keywords?
	- whole sentences
- Do they automatically click provided links in the response?
	- sometimes.

## Fifth Task: [Ask about Claims] - 5 minutes

- Ok, now I'd like you to ask the chatbot about the status of your fake users disability claim.
	- "what is the status of my claims?"
	- correctly described the options available.
	- "see next claim"
	- if missing, what do next? "I'd get my claim number, type it into the chatbot."
	- "what is status of 122121" (didn't press enter. just showing what he typed)
	- OT: uses chatbox for medicare. search by timeframe. seemed impressed with it.
- Please take a moment to read the chatbot response. What do you think about the info provided? Is it helpful? Why or why not? If not, what would you expect to see as a response instead?
- What step would you take next based on the buttons provided in the chat window? Why would you choose that button?

### Things to watch for:

- Does the participant click the Speak with agent button? What do they think of the response after they click it?

## Post-Task Interview - 5-10 minutes

- When the bot tells you it does not have the answer, how does it make you feel?
	- "I didn't feel bad. I knew I still have more questions I could ask" willing to retry a certain number of times before resorting to live call.
- How do you feel about the voice and tone of the response you received?
	- "I felt ok. It wasn't talking down to me." "I didn't read anything into what it said."
- If the chatbot couldn't answer your question but could connect you to a live agent chat, would you prefer that over speaking by phone with the VA help desk/contact center?
	- "I don't mind chatting with a live agent. I don't know if it's a live person." "No satisfaction, then go to a live phone if i can."
- Was it clear what all the buttons did (button labels) or where all the links went? Would you rephrase any of the buttons?
	- "I don't think we had problems maneuvering." "buttons appear to be ok. I could see them."
	- Needed guidance to get back to chatbot after visiting a link. ("I'm pretty sure i would have gotten back to it when on my own"
- Based on your experience today, are you willing to use the chatbot again?
	- he'd use chatbot. "does it probably faster than you'll do it for me."
	- Yes. Primarily checking simple statuses, assume i can make appointments on release, may not accept the answer, even when correct. likes that he can escalate to a manager with live call.
- What additional feature to the chatbot would improve your experience?
- Do you have any other feedback you'd like to share?
	- My medicare has some circle in tricare. there's my health records, appointments, prescriptions, referrals, primary care, ...
	- Shane points him to "My VA" button, mentions similarities.
- Any questions for me? 
- "As new veterans come aboard, they'll get this faster than me." mentions generation gap.

## Thank-You and Closing - 2 minutes

Well we really appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us today. Your feedback is so helpful to us as we continue to work on this virtual agent chatbot and make sure it really works for Veterans.

Thanks! Lastly, do you know any other Veterans, caregivers, or service members who might be willing to participate in a future user research session? 
    If Yes: Thank you! I'll have our team send you an email with a little blurb that you can pass along. 

Great, well thank you so much again, and enjoy the rest of your day!

## Sample Conversation Guides _(note: these links point to resources in the va.gov-team GitHub repo)_

- [Scheduling Accessibility and Usability Study: Complex Recruit, Highly Variable based on User Profile](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/blob/master/products/health-care/appointments/research/2017-studies/access-usability/access-usability-conversation-guide.md) 
- [Veteran ID Card Discovery Interview](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/blob/master/products/veteran-id-cards/research/discovery/discovery-conversation-guide.md)
