# Conversation Guide Template for Moderated Research

Moderator: Luciana Morais 

## Moderator logistics

*Use [#feedback-backchannel](https://dsva.slack.com/messages/C40B45NJK/details/) in Slack for real-time feedback from observers.*

*Mute your Slack notifications*

*Before the session, send out the [observer instructions](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/blob/master/platform/research/during-research/howto-observer-instructions.md) to your observers (Slackbot will do this for you if you type "observer instructions" into [#feedback-backchannel](https://dsva.slack.com/channels/feedback-backchannel)).*

*In the Attendees section, make sure everyone except the participant is on mute.*

*In the Audio section, click the drop-down arrow and make sure "Play Entry/Exit Chimes" is unchecked*

*Check your [screensharing setup] and share permissions for participants.*

*When the participant is ready, begin the session with the following intro*

### Project-specific setup

- [ ] Ensure participant has been emailed the correct staging link and fake username/password: https://staging.va.gov/virtual-agent-study/ 


## Intro - 5 minutes

Thanks for joining us today! My name is [Shane Strassberg] and I also have some colleagues on the line observing and taking notes. Today we're going to talk about and interact with our VA Virtual Agent chatbot currently in development. Last year we ran a proof of value study to gauge interest in a chatbot for Veterans, and your input today will directly impact the future development of this tool to help Vets better self-serve and get faster outcomes to their questions.

Before we start, a few things I want to mention:

- **This entire session should take about [30-45 min].** I want to be sure not to keep you much longer, so I may occasionally prompt you with the next question or topic.
- **In this session, we want to hear your honest opinions.** We are not testing your knowledge or ability to use chatbots. We just want to improve these tools to better meet Veteran's needs. I will not be offended by any opinions you express, and I welcome your honest feedback.
- [IF APPROPRIATE:] **You'll be interacting with a prototype chatbot.** This prototype chatbot may not function exactly the way you expect. Some areas of the prototype will be clickable, and some will not. Since it's a prototype, none of your actions will affect your actual VA information or benefits.
- **If for any reason and at any time you want to stop the session, please let me know.** 
- **Are you comfortable if I record my screen and audio as we talk today?** We use the recordings to confirm that we have captured your opinions accurately. The recordings are destroyed after we complete analysis, and none of your comments will be attributed to you directly. 
    - If yes: **Once I start recording, I am going to confirm that you are ok with me recording this session once more.** 

*Start recording.*

- **I have started recording**. I'd like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record my screen and the audio as we talk today? 

## Warm-up Questions (Optional) - 5 minutes

Before we look at the prototype, let’s start with a few warm-up questions.

- What's has your general experience with chatbots been like? 
- A: The only ones he has used are customer service + facebook platform. As long as dragon software allows to type in with voice, but some don't accept dragon - then he has to type which is extremely slow. Dragon - downloaded on computer that allows him to use text to speech microphone. Navigate on the screen just MS Windows 10 to direct mouse pointer within a grid, very time consuming and tedious. Doesn't use it. Uses a joystick to use his hands to navigate. 

- When you need general VA information, what actions do you normally take?
- A: VA.gov navigate through that + premium member of MyHeatheVet + Luis Stokes VA Cleveland w/helpful tabs to find information. 95% self-service when he looks at Va.gov. 
- When you need specific information about yourself from the VA, what actions do you normally take?
- A: Uses MyHeahty Vet and email directly to doctor or pharmacy. Direct phone numbers for SCI and spinal chord Eerie VA - I call them directly and they'll help with questions I have. 

*Background info about the participant should have been provided by Coordinator already, so use this time to ask any other questions that you feel will help with the session. This warm-up is not required*

## First Task: [Screen Share] - 1-2 minutes

- I'd like you to share your screen with me. Can you click on the green share screen button, located at the bottom middle of the Zoom window.
- Please select your desktop window to share so we can be sure to see the web browser you're using.

### Things to watch for:

- Are they able to find the share screen button? 
- They're able to find the share screen but do not have chat. We had to email the log in information. 

## Second Task: [Open Chatbot URL] - 2-3 minutes

- You should have just received a link to your provided email to access the chatbot. Can you please open it now? 
- Can you take a moment to familiarize yourself with the webpage you just opened?
- Next I'd like you to use the provided username and password from the same email to sign into to the chatbot.
- Take a moment to read the intro text and let me know if it is clear or if there is anything confusing. 
- What do you think about the crisis disclaimer?


### Things to watch for:

- Are they able to find the provided link and open it. If not we can dictate the url or in worst case, share our screen and sign in to demo the tool.
- Do they sign in using the button in the chatbot or the regular sign in button on the upper right corner of the webpage?
- Do they read the intro text to the chatbot?

- A: Feels confident with the informaiton he found on the landing. Tries to sign in at utility nav. Has to type each login information, adds a bit of friction here. Was able to copy and paste that password. Authentication is taking a while. 
- A: Introduction Text -- nothing misleading or confusing. 

## Third Task: [Ask General Question] - 5 minutes

- Now that you have read the intro text, I'd like you to ask the chatbot a general question about benefits. Please type in "Am I eligible for health benefits"
- Next copy and paste which response you would like to view for a link, preview or full chatbot response.
- Please take a moment to read the chatbot response and click any links that may be relevant to your question. What do you think about the info provided? Is it helpful? Why or why not? If not, what would you expect to see as a response instead?
- Please copy/paste the next view you want to read
- And lastly please copy/paste the remaining view to read the response.

A: he scrolled all the way down to ask a new question -- Can I get a longer supply of medicatons for my prescription? -- Bot responded wth a generic response. He understands that he does not know how to ask the right question, so he was surprised at the response. It picked up his keywords "supply + medication" Feels that it will point him in the right direction. Landed at unauthenticated Refill Prescription Page. He thinks it took him to the right place. He knows that it's a personal question and likes that it pointed him to a page with a phone number. 

A: With a tool like this I can keep going back to that question box and figure out myself what question to ask. I prefer interacting with it myself instead of a human because I may not know what question to ask that human. 
A: Going back to the virtual agent 

### Things to watch for:

- Which view do they choose and in what order?
- Do they automatically click provided links in the response?

A: Sentence "Am I eligible for health benefits?" Tried it with dragon and it worked. 
A: Link - Very fast and I believe it will be helpful because he can click on a link. He understands that it's a link because it' a different color and underlined, but feels that older Veterans will not get it. He would hover and click on it as his next action. 
A: Preview - Generic answer he knows he is eligible but "health care eligibility" may want to specific that you can click on that link. Would click on the link to see what it has to say.
A: Full - Difficult to scroll all the way up for him not knowing where to stop -- Scrolling through it fast -- Likes the response best by scrolling and there is a phone number that he can call to someone. Moderator explained that this content comes straight from Va.gov but participant still likes the full view. The last answer lays everything out for him to read. 

## Fourth Task: [Ask 2nd General Question] - 5 minutes

- Please ask the chatbot another general topic question.
- Please take a moment to read the chatbot response and click any links that may be relevant to your question. What do you think about the info provided? Is it helpful? Why or why not? If not, what would you expect to see as a response instead?

### Things to watch for:

- Does the participant use a whole question or keywords?
- Do they automatically click provided links in the response?

## Fifth Task: [Ask about Claims] - 5 minutes

- Ok, now I'd like you to ask the chatbot about the status of your fake users disability claim.
- Please take a moment to read the chatbot response. What do you think about the info provided? Is it helpful? Why or why not? If not, what would you expect to see as a response instead?
- What step would you take next based on the buttons provided in the chat window? Why would you choose that button?

A: Claims - I think it's impressive, feels that he would understand the information there, likes the link for more information and likes the agent access. Knows that he has to go through a series of Next Claims, would have liked buttons for each one of his claims so he can directly to the one he is acquiring about. Differentiating: Date he filed and who he filed it with. He finds that the claim is very  useful but the only downside is that it may not be what he is looking for. He is concerned about how long it will take for him to find the claim he wants. Agent name, where they work and a phone number (Speak with an Agent) expects that it's a rep of that claim. 

### Things to watch for:

- Does the participant click the Speak with agent button? What do they think of the response after they click it?

## Post-Task Interview - 5-10 minutes

- When the bot tells you it does not have the answer, how does it make you feel?
- How do you feel about the voice and tone of the response you received?
- If the chatbot couldn't answer your question but could connect you to a live agent chat, would you prefer that over speaking by phone with the VA help desk/contact center?
- Was it clear what all the buttons did (button labels) or where all the links went? Would you rephrase any of the buttons?
- Based on your experience today, are you willing to use the chatbot again?
- What additional feature to the chatbot would improve your experience?
- Do you have any other feedback you'd like to share?
- Any questions for me? 

A: Feels that the tone and voice is very professional, courteous. He would prefer to use a live agent for additional help over the phone because he likes being anonymous and he can close it out and be done (assumes that he is anonymous). Many of customer support people are not English as a first language, so he prefers to see it being typed so he can understand it better. 

He would 100% use the chatbot again because it allows him to work at his own pace and not be pressured for questions. He has no complaints about the bot right now. 

## Thank-You and Closing - 2 minutes

Well we really appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us today. Your feedback is so helpful to us as we continue to work on this virtual agent chatbot and make sure it really works for Veterans.

Thanks! Lastly, do you know any other Veterans, caregivers, or service members who might be willing to participate in a future user research session? 
    If Yes: Thank you! I'll have our team send you an email with a little blurb that you can pass along. 

Great, well thank you so much again, and enjoy the rest of your day!

## Sample Conversation Guides _(note: these links point to resources in the va.gov-team GitHub repo)_

- [Scheduling Accessibility and Usability Study: Complex Recruit, Highly Variable based on User Profile](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/blob/master/products/health-care/appointments/research/2017-studies/access-usability/access-usability-conversation-guide.md) 
- [Veteran ID Card Discovery Interview](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/blob/master/products/veteran-id-cards/research/discovery/discovery-conversation-guide.md)
