

# Supplemental Claims Research Plan


### [draft] 8.24.2022
Research and Design: Pamela Hastings

Product: Sade Ragsdale


## Background
As per the Appeals Modernization Act of 2017, Veteran and non-Veteran claimants seeking to correct perceived discrepancies in their benefit awards must submit new and relevant evidence by initiating the supplemental claim process. To do this, they must submit the Supplemental Claim form (VA Form 20-0995). New evidence enables a reviewer to determine if they should change the previous decision. Claimants can use the supplemental claims process in three ways: 

* Supplement a claim within 1 year - Use this to add supplemental evidence to a claim decision within 1 year of its effective date.
* Reopen a prior claim closed 1+ years ago - Use this to re-open a prior decision that denied service connection, so that you can continue to prosecute the claim. This action will not reopen the prior effective date.
* Continuously prosecute a claim - Use this to continue prosecuting a claim and keep your effective date rolling.

Of the three decision review pathways, supplemental claims are the most widely used. More than 32,000 supplemental claims are filed each month (more than double the number of board appeals and higher-level reviews, combined) which indicates that streamlining and enhancing this pathway has an outsized potential to impact the lives of Veterans and their families.

### Strategic Alignment
Benefits OKR: Make the VAs claims experience better than the private sector's
CTO Priority: Reduce the time it takes for Veterans to find, use, and receive VA services.

[Link to product brief](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/tree/master/products/decision-reviews/Supplemental-Claims)

## OCTO Objectives

✅  Increase the usage and throughput of VA services

✅  Decrease the time Veterans spend waiting for an outcome

✅  Increase the quality and reliability of VA services


## Veteran Journey
Since Veterans can file Supplemental Claims benefits with VA between 180 and 90 days before separating from the military, this work impacts the Veteran journey from _serving_, to_ getting out_, and all the way to *dying* as survivors can also file Supplemental Claims on the Veteran’s behalf.

This work especially maps to the *taking care of myself* part of the Veteran journey, as Supplemental Claims for disability compensation supports:

* Recognizing and addressing mental health needs
* Managing primary care and chronic health issues
* Maintaining my health

## Research Goals

### 1. Determine if the beginning of the process of filing a Supplemental Claim is clear and actionable. 
* How likely are they to file an SC on VA.gov? If not, why?
* Do users understand if this is the right form for them?
* Do users understand how to file claims other than disability? 
* Do they understand that they need to _sign in_ to complete the form online?
* Do any users understand that the VA has data on file for them and what it is?
* Do users know when they have everything they need to successfully complete the form? 
    * If yes, how do they know it?
    * If not, how would they go about finding it?
* Do users understand how to correct the contact information that the VA has on file for them? 
* Do users understand why VA needs to know the primary way to reach them?

### 2. Determine if the user sees or can successfully add the issues they need to appeal 
* Do users understand the issues the form is presenting to them?
* Do they understand how to add a new issue?
    * What do they expect to happen if they choose to add a new issue?
    * How do they describe a medical issue?
* Do users know what information is necessary to add an issue?
* Do they know where to find their decision letter(s)?
    * What would a user do if they had questions about their decision letter?
    * Is it clear how to edit or make changes to their issues? 
* Does the form contain everything users need to know to confidently continue? 
* When users review the summary of their entries, do they understand how to edit/change it?
* What do users expect to happen next, when they select continue?

### 3. Validate that the details displayed are helpful to completing the form. 
* Do veterans understand the AMA language presented to them?
    * If yes, what is their understanding?
    * If not, what do they not understand?
    * What do they think will happen if they opt in?
    * If they don’t?
    * Is there any important information missing?
    * What do they expect to happen when they continue?

### 4. Validate that the pieces of new and relevant evidence presented are what users need to get a favorable decision.
* Do users understand the step of the form they are in?
* Do they understand the language of evidence needed?
    * If yes, what is their understanding?
    * If not, what do they not understand?
    * What do they think will happen if they check I certify?
    * What about if they choose not to check it?
    * What do they expect to happen when they continue?
* Do users understand what new and relevant evidence means?
    * Where would they go to learn more?
* Do they understand the relationship between issue, evidence and time in service?
    * If yes, what type of evidence will successfully connect them?
    * If not, how would they go about learning more?
* Do they understand that VA will get VA evidence for them?
    * If yes, why
    * If no, why
* Is it clear how the VA can assist in gathering private evidence?
    * If yes, what is their understanding?
    * Do they understand they need to authorize private medical release?
    * Do they understand what limiting consent means?
    * Do they understand how providing additional info might impact their claim?
        ** What do they think is expected in this field?
* Do they understand how to upload evidence? 
    * If yes, how do they go about it?
    * If not, how do they go about learning how to do it?
* Is there any important information missing in this section?

### 5. Validate that the users have what they need to review and submit the claim.
* Do users understand the accordion behavior to review each section?
* Do they understand how to change their entries?
* Can they successfully review each entry?
* Can they confidently agree to the privacy policy?
* Do they feel confident submitting their claim?
* What do they expect to happen next?

## Outcome
We'll use the findings from this research to iterate on anything critical that impedes the user from completing the form, add notable enhancements and concerns for the backlog, and refine our MVP.

## Hypothesis 
We believe that all users will be able to successfully complete a Supplemental Claim.
We believe Veterans will understand the decisions they need to make with the content presented to them.
We believe Veterans will be able to achieve a more favorable outcome by submitting a Supplemental Claim via this digital experience. 

## Method 
We'll conduct remote usability testing over Zoom using a prototype. This method will enable us to observe participants attempting to file a claim with clear objectives given to them. We will plan to test in production with a screen reader user before launch since that is a limitation of testing with a prototype.

## Research materials 
Link to conversation guide


## Links to prototype
[Supplemental Claims mobile experience](https://www.figma.com/proto/JveclTFbNNSmx4eiYwbZdZ/Supplemental-Claims?node-id=70%3A5676&scaling=scale-down&page-id=10%3A1697&starting-point-node-id=70%3A5676)
