# New Ask VA queue for Federal & State Approvals

Last updated: May 27, 2025

## Purpose

The Federal & State Approvals team would like to add a new queue to Ask VA to support requests to their business line.

### Attendees

- **Ask VA team:** Tyler Gindraux (Facilitator), Jaime Rocha, Becky Phung, Kathleen Reavy, Kyle Polewaczyk, Irisa Roze, Jennifer Abernathy
- **Federal & State Approvals team:** Shawn Erie, Elizabeth Alexander

## Highlights

- The Federal & State Approvals team manages program approvals for federal training facilities, foreign facilities, and VET TEC training providers.
- They don't currently have a queue in Ask VA. We'd like to add 1 queue to support their business line.
- We could add subtopics to existing `Education benefit and work study` topics in Ask VA and route to this new queue.
- We need to meet with other GI Bill partners who use Ask VA to explore any potential overlap that could cause confusion for submitters.

## Next steps

1. Agree category, topic and subtopic structure with Federal & State Approvals team and other GI Bill partners who use Ask VA.
2. Draft topic and subtopic labels with VA.gov Content and Information Architecture (IA) Team.
3. Receive approval for topic and subtopic labels from Federal & State Approvals team.
4. Agree queue settings, including replies, attachments and contact options.
5. Define submitter flow for new topic(s) and subtopic(s) that route to new queue.
6. [If applicable] Design and develop any new question(s) or VA.gov page(s) required for new queue.
7. Add category and topic labels to Ask VA CRM.
8. Agree launch plan.

### Action items

- [ ] `Ask VA Team` Schedule meeting with Federal & State Approvals team and other GI Bill partners who use Ask VA
- [ ] `Ask VA Team` Gather a handful of FAQ questions to existing GI Bill topics in Ask VA, including `Benefits issues outside the U.S.`
- [ ] `Ask VA Team` Read more about [Federal programs](https://www.va.gov/education/about-gi-bill-benefits/how-to-use-benefits/study-at-foreign-schools/#:~:text=Send%20an%20email%20to%20federal.approvals%40va.gov) for background knowledge

## Appendix

### Unabridged meeting notes

- Their topics could be something like: Federal facility, Foreign facility and Vet Tech (Program).
- Most of the inquiries received are relatively homogenous. Majority of their questions are, "Is my program approved at __ school or training facility?"
- They also answer questions about enrollment manager issues.
- They do need to know specifics, like, if they're the beneficiary or if they're asking about a payment.
- They received 88 questions over the weekend, for example, wanting to know if the program is approved at [this] foreign school.
- Questions currently get routed to VA education benefits' regional mailboxes.
- Their work all falls under the umbrella of Education benefits.
- Education benefits doesn't currently have a queue relating to foreign programs or federal facilities.
- If they're asking about a benefit payment or eligibility, it should route elsewhere.
- There is a distinction between federal and foreign, but not down to state or school of residence. We don't need to collect state or school of residence, or school facility, or country.
- We need 1 queue for Federal and State approvals.
- Certain topics that are under `Education benefits and work study` in Ask VA are applicable to Federal & State Approvals, and other are not. We identified these as being most relevant: Licensing and testing fees, On-the-job training and apprenticeships, School Certifying Officials (SCOs)
- SCOs could ask them about enrollment manager, tuition amounts, 'When can I certify this person?', training programs
- Example of the most common question they receive:
  
  > Good evening,
  >
  > I am writing to see if the following program is approved for use of the Post 9-11 GI Bill:
  >
  > School Name: Freie Universität Berlin
  > Address: Kaiserswerther Str. 16-18, 14195 Berlin, Germany
  > Program: North American Studies - Master's Program
- We need to discuss options eg. replies allowed, reply window, attachments allowed, contact options they support
- We need to consider how to handle the existing category `Benefits issues outside of the U.S.` which appears to overlap with this new queue.
