## Meeting notes from 2 separate meetings to kick-off discussions on implementing Confirmation Emails through VA Notify

**Notes from VA Notify meeting on 12/7/2022:**
- Open questions
     - what status code do we get back from ES upon recpt?
     - We should push to have notifications stay in ES, allows for more notifications based on statuses
     - Where is this trigger coming from and going to?

- Comments
     - VN Strike doesn't have integration with ES today
     - concern that applicants wont be known to VA, may not have profile with email address.  Is there a way to pull email from form? - yes, we can send that to VAN
     - need to have convo with Joshua & team
          - then maybe a VAN meeting with demo

---

**Notes from mtg with Joshua Faulkner on 12/12/2022
- They use a java mail client
- VA Notify would replace Java mail client
- VA Notify would manage content template
- how would we trigger this? 
     - would prefer ES response before sending, 
     - how much work to replace email handler with VA Notify?
          - not hard, but not soon (backlog)
          - confirmed it'll just log a message and do no harm, just need to coordinate the timing of when you want to turn on the new flow
- person in MPI, would provide icn to VA Notify (ideally) or email address from the form (race! added a couple miliseconds before ICN created?) 
     - Chk with VAN on this race, may not need ICN
- move content to VA Notify
     - first/last and pref facility
- Set up change request from Tarsha
     - DONE - 1/13/2022 via emailed Change Request form

- Open question
     - What does that API look like?
          - Can send over when we get closer to being scheduled
