# Conversation Guide Template for Moderated Research

## Moderator logistics

Use #feedback-backchannel *in Slack for real-time feedback from observers.*

*Before the session, send out the observer instructions to your observers (Slackbot will do this for you if you type "observer instructions" into #feedback-backchannel).
In the Attendees section, make sure everyone except the participant is on mute
In the Audio section, click the drop-down arrow and make sure "Play Entry/Exit Chimes" is unchecked
Check your [screensharing setup]
When the participant is ready, begin the session with the following intro*

## Project-specific setup
 - Have live site link ready to share with participant [Live site](https://www.va.gov/health-care/covid-19-vaccine)

 
## Intro - 5 minutes

Thanks for joining us today! My name is Lauryl Zenobi and I also have some colleagues on the line observing and taking notes. Today we're going to talk about your thoughts on the COVID-19 vaccine and how you would like to receive information and updates on the vaccine in the months to come.  

Before we start, a few things I want to mention:
- **This entire session should take about 45-60 minutes.** I want to be sure not to keep you much longer, so I may occasionally prompt you with the next question or topic.
- **In this session, we want to hear your honest opinions.** We are not testing your ability. We just want to improve these tools to better meet Veteran's needs. I will not be offended by any opinions you express, and I welcome your feedback.
- **If for any reason and at any time you want to stop the session, please let me know.**
- **Are you comfortable if I record my screen and audio as we talk today?** We use the recordings to confirm that we have captured your opinions accurately. The recordings are destroyed after we complete analysis, and none of your comments will be attributed to you directly.
- If yes: **Once I start recording, I am going to confirm that you are ok with me recording this session once more.**

*Start recording.*
- **I have started recording.** I'd like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record my screen and the audio as we talk today?

## Warm-up Questions (Optional) - 5 minutes
- Do you use the VA for healthcare?
  - Yes
- Do you use Community Care?
  - If necessary, usually going to VA, they don't do some of my appointments
  - if I need something and the VA doesn't have anything in the next 3o days they send me out, 90% of what I do is at the VA
  - used to be easy when I worked there
- How do you typically communicate with your doctor?
  - MHV, send emails thorugh there
  - it's just easier to do that
  - If I need something right away I call but email has been really easy
- How often do you go to VA.gov? What for?
- How often do you use MyHealtheVet? What for?
  - I make all my appts, email docs, get questions answered
  - In fact, I just called in for my rx and they weer able to fill it right away
  - usually go in once a week or so
  - will get email notifications if somethign pops up there
  - I get emails, texts and phone calls about every single appt
  - that's fine, with texts, was able to cancel an appt

### First Task: Would you be interested in receiving the COVID-19 vaccine? 5-10 min
- Are you interested in receiving the COVID-19 vaccine?
  - probably
- Why?
  - we're real careful at work, only a few of us
  - my partner works for the VAMC, they sent out an email a few days ago to gauage interest for those workers
  - doing my own research on whether it's safe for me, and will make decision based on that
  - continue to follow social distancing measures at home
- Why not?
- What information would you need to decide?
  - I go to the CDC, and check the manufacturing company websites
  - watch how other states are doing in the south, and have medical friends down there, and I talk to them and doctor family members to get their opinions
  - side effects are what I'm interested in learning, followed the UK allergy reactions
  - I have rx allergies, and as an epipen carrier I'm concerned
- _For those who are interested_ How would you express your interest, say, to your doctor or the VA?
  - I would put in a request, make an appointment
  - concern, why get two shots? why not one? not always feasible
- What are your expectations after expressing interest?
  - I would expect to go in, get the shot, and discuss any potential side effects
  - I think you should wait 20-30 minutes to make sure there's no immediate reaction
  - would make appt in MHV
- Where would you go to get the vaccine? Why there?
  - VA, why not?
  - likely combine it with a appt I already have


**Things to watch for:**
- Does the participant understand their options?
- Capture where the reluctance to receiving vaccine and why.
- Is the participant interested in additional information? (For the vaccine and for how to navigate expressing their interest)
- Are there concerns that can be addressed with proper communications?

### Second Task: How would you like to you like to receive informative updates on vaccine status? 5-10 min
- How soon do you expect you'll be able to get the vaccine? 
    - it hasn't rolled out here yet, at least not what the VA hospital is doing here yet
    - maybe 4-6 weeks. I'm not a frontline worker or living in a care facility, so I know I'm not first
  - How will you know when you're able to get the vaccine?
    - VA email, VA put something on facebook or instagram, like the flu shot clinics they run
    - VA public affairs will probably put out an email, a text, maybe even a phone call, probably will get a letter too
    - VA.gov news releases
    - here you often get the option to go out to a local hospital or clinic, but would do VA because convenient if I'm already there for an appt.
- _If interested in receiving the vaccine_ How would you like to learn when the vaccine is available?
  - What is your preferred method?
    - probably email, I'm on email everyday. 
    - VA has both my work and personal, so I'll get updates there
    - also hear from my partnet when he comes home from work 
  - How often would you like to get updates on whether the vaccine is available yet or not?
    - weekly, as updated, and then would get a schedule.
    - would think it's similar to flu shot clinics or even the covid testing set ups, eg drive thru

**Things to watch for:**
- Does the participant seem frustrated with how they have been receiving updates to-date? From VA? Generally?
- Is the participant aware of the prioritization guidelines from CDC and how vaccine will be distributed?
- Is the participant aware of how the prioritization guidelines may impact when they may receive vaccine?  
- What information, if any, would be helpful to the participant?

### Third Task: How would you like to receive general information about the COVID-19 vaccine? 5-10 min
- Where do you typically go to get information about covid-19 vaccines? Why that source?
  - I listen to a lot of broadcast news at work, so I'll hear latest numbers and such there
  - I also follow international papers to get different views to get a cross-section of different news
- What information would be important to you to know about the vaccine? Where would you want to get that info?
  - would like to learn more about the testing, it does seem like it was rushed out, but I know they've been working on it since last spring.
  - safety factor with rx allergies, that does make me concerned
- How do you decide what information to trust?
  - It depends on the website and what I'm looking for. There's a lot of hype, it's been politicized quite a bit, so I'll glace thru the hype and try to get to the meat of the story. It's up to individual beliefs and choices. 
  - I don't like the fact that you have to go back twice?
  - Why would someone who had covid get the shot? Don't you already have antibodies? Are there different strains?
  - to get answers: I don't know, maybe CDC, might call doctor relative

**Things to watch for:**
- Does the participant express an information gap? Is there interest in receiving additional information from VA?
- Is there a cultural gap in current communications effort?
- Is there any trust concerns with the current information they are receiving?
- Is there any frustration from the Participant on where to find trusted information? 


## Stay Informed Website 20-30 mins

Ok, now I'd like to have you look at a potential solution and get your feedback. I'm going to share a link in the chat. What I'd like to do is have you open that on your computer's internet browser and share your screen so we can follow along with what you're seeing. I'd like you to think out loud as you look at this prototype together. I want to point out that since this is a prototype, not everything will work, so in that case, please tell me what you expect would happen. Remember, there are no right or wrong answers, and your feedback will help us build better tools for Veterans. 
**Share link** [Live site](https://www.va.gov/health-care/covid-19-vaccine)



### Main Mini Hub page
- What are you seeing here?
   - covid 19 vaccines at the VA and what they're doing to work with the gov, CDC and other fed partners
   - this is a nice website, nice and clean
   - who's getting it first, I already know that
- What stands out to you?
- (stay informed call out) What is this telling you?
  - What would you be signing up for?
- Who is this site for?
  - Veteran population
  - A lot of people will prefer to get a letter though, with steps on what to do if interested in getting the vaccine

### On this page links
- Let's say you wanted to find out when you might be able to get the vaccine, how would you do that?
  - [scrolled down and read through all the links]
  - "who's getting it first section" I can understand how they might roll that out to healthcare workers and nursing home residents nearby but you got a lot of tiny towns and not everybody has a hospital
  - free, great
  - question, if it rolls out to my VAMC, there are 7 clinics around us, how will it be rolled out if the facilities aren't able to store the vaccines? e.g. with temperature, shipping logistics, do I have to go the main VAMC instead of a clinic that's 3-4 hours away from the VA?
   - would ask my partner those questions, or assume the public affairs officer at my VA will do announcements, might put him on the local news too
   - concern, rural areas having to go all the way out
  - Privacy - never had any problem with that. The VA is so HIPPA trained, I'm not concerned about that
  - FAQ: 
   - can I get vaccine if I had covid? question, I like they are being honest that they don't know
   - I see they are doing additional trials on that
   - receive at same time as flu shot, huh, i already got the flu shot. If you could or why it's not recommended, that's good to know
   - Dose count: depends on the vaccine. I'd rather just have one, rather than two doses. I owuld rather go in once and get it.
   - protection length: they don't know yet, I think this is one giant gerbil test for everybody
   - mask at va facilities, nope still have to!
   - Find VA locations link, that's a good idea, some people just don't know where they're at
    - [clicks into Facilities finder]
    - [played around with map finder and direction]
    - huh, I didn't know this clinic was open. I thought it wasn't open yet, opening sometime next year. 
    - If this clinic was open I could go there, that location is very convenient to work
    - Not everybody knows where facilities are, say you just moved here
    - clicked into public health link, getting a general sense of what the VA is doing, looking at news release. Found PDF of vaccine distribution plan dated to Dec 14. [read thru doc]
    - read thru vaccine storage requirements, which one will be available, how often I have to come in, will they centralize it or have people go to clinics, or go to Comm Care
    - I like there are links to apply for healthcare online on this site
- How would you find out more information about the vaccine?
- What information is missing here?
  - Privacy, safety, eligibility, cost, risks, those are the big ones
  - looks like high risk folks woud go in round 2, depending on what you have, that's good to know.
  - this is clear, not a lot of color, not a lot of pictures
  - I don't see anything missing

### Sign up
- Let's say you wanted to sign up to get updates on when a vaccine was available, how would you do that?
  - usually they roll out an email or letter from the facility with directions
  - not everyone up here has internet or mobile phones, so will only come in if they get a letter
- _auth vs non-auth flow_ What are you seeing here?
    - don't need to sign up to get a vaccine
    - way to stay informed, looks like something would get sent to my email
    - choose sign on, ah, you can use all the logons
    - Would use MHV, most common way for me to do what I need
  - Which option would you choose? Why?
    - MHV
    - let's see what would happen once signed in
    - signed in with MHV, signed in with 2FA
    - do a lot of this stuff on my iphone, don't like using MHV on my work computer and everything's already saved in there
    - signed in, it brought me back to the page and I have to click "sign up for updates" again


### Communication sign up form
- What do you think this page is for?
  - to send me updates, but I don't need to sign up if I don't want to
  - I would highlight that, some people don't want to put out their information
- What do you think of the information you're asked to fill out here?
   - I would be a little concerned, because it's got all this info, but I guess this is from my MHV, so everything's already in there
  - _probe on zipcode_
  - _probe on interest level radio buttons_
    - Sounds like they are trying to get extra information, whether you're interested or not
    - sounds like they are trying to get numbers, maybe for order for local facility 
- What would you expect to happen once you fill out this form?
  - get a periodic update, maybe once a week, updates specific to local facility
  - they have a specific plan on how they will do the roll out
  - would change if I don't want it anymore, looks like you can go back and resubmit if you change your mind

### Confirmation/review page
- What are you seeing on this page?
  - not signing up to get a vaccine, I know that
  - thank you for signing up, new info will go directly to my email or text, and I get lal that information anyways from MHV, and you can also get info from this website.
  - remember it's not a signup for a vaccine, I know that
  - info used for interest, still sounds like they are trying to get numbers, if only five people sign up only order five vaccines?
  - [asked partner question about interest at VAMC survey] sounds as though they did an interest gauging survey in order to plan order for fisrt
- Let's say you change your mind about your interest in getting the vaccine, say after 6 months, what would you do?

### Post-Task Interview - 5 minutes
- What are you thoughts on what you looked at today?
  - I'm interested in more info to see how this would be rolled out
  - would prefer only one shot, expediency
  - it's clearcut, nice website
  - and people don't have to signup if they don't want to, that's all about individual choice
  - I know some people aren't comfortable, I tell people get information and make your decision
  - there's nothing in here singling people out, it's clear that this is a choice
- Is there anything we didn't ask you that would be important to know?
  - It'd be nice to have the familes get it, say a caretaker was bringing in a Veteran, it'd be nice if they can get it to, but I guess they could go to the local hospital instead
- Do you have any questions about what you saw today?
  - no
- Any questions for me?
  - no

### Thank-You and Closing - 5 minutes
Before we go, I just want to mention that what you saw today is something that the VA is considering building to help Veterans like yourself get more information about when a vaccine might be available, but it's not a way to sign up or reserve a spot to get a vaccine. The VA will be following CDC guidelines on how to roll out the vaccine. We really appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us today. Your feedback is helpful to us as we continue to work on solutions to support Veterans’ needs. 


Thanks! Lastly, do you know any other Veterans, caregivers, or service members who might be willing to participate in a future user research session? 

**If Yes:** Thank you! I'll have our team send you an email with a little blurb that you can pass along.
Great, well thank you so much again, and enjoy the rest of your day!


Observer #1 Raw Notes:

- Get texts, phone calls, and emails for every single appt … I am fine with it.  
- Q: Interested in getting the vaccine?
    - Probably … We are very careful at work.  My husband works for VA hospital … anything he is exposed to would expose me.  Doing own research if it will be safe enough for me.  Continue to wear mask and stay away from people.  
    - There was other comms asking about who is interested. 
    - Her mom will get it in next couple of weeks in nursing facility in NY. 
- Q: what information would be helpful?
    - CDC
    - Manufacturers of vaccine
    - Have medical provider friends and discussing with them. Brother in law med dr in WI and his family had it and he had shared w/ her on his views of the vaccine. 
- Q: What info interested?
    - Side effects
    - Watching UK w/ some who reacted badly to the vaccine.
    - Veteran is allergic to certain animals and Cipro and carries Epi Pen … am concerned.
- Q: How request for vaccine if interested?
    - Put in an appt through MyHealtheVet to request for the vaccine
    - Why do we need 2 shots … why not just 1 shot?  That is not feasible … get it done in one shot.
- Q: What are you expectations?
    - Go in and have the shot done 
    - Talk about side effects b/c of her allergies
    - People should wait 20-30 min to watch if have any reactions. 
    - Insist to stay to be monitored.
- Q: where to get vaccine
    - Same place where get 
- Q: how soon do you expect to get the vaccine?
    - Probably in 4-6 weeks
    - I am not a front line worker and not living in care facility … those people are first. 
- Q: who will you know when you can get vaccine?
    - Facebook message
    - Email
    - Similar to flu shot to come in on certain days to get the vaccine.  
    - VA hospital in Iron Mt. Will put out instagram, email, public affairs and including a letter a text and phone call for all that I know.  
    - They are good at getting the word out. 
    - Keep up w/ VA.gov news about things that are coming up. 
    - I will wait until it comes to VA thought it may be avail at local hospitals.  
- Q: Why wait for VA?
    - One stop shop for all my other treatments and get the vaccine at the same time.
- Q: Preferred option for getting updates?
    - Email b/c she is on email everyday through 3 diff email accounts. 
- Q: How often would you like to get updates on vaccine avail?
    - Weekly at first
    - Then they will put out schedule 
    - Similar to the COVID test and flu shots
    - Through drive through
- Q: Where do you typically go to get info on vaccine?
    - Listen to a lot of broadcast news at work to hear the latest numbers
    - International papers to get news (Australia, UK, etc.)
    - Look up company and CDC for updates
- Q: What other information is important to know about vaccine besides vaccine?
    - Hear more about the testing that has been done.
    - Seems like they are rushing this out. 
    - Working on vaccine since last spring.
    - Seems like companies just want to roll it out … w/ my allergies I do get a little concerned.
- Q: How do you know what info to trust?
    - Depends on the website and what I am looking for
    - Covid has been politicized
    - Trying to work through hype and get through meat of the story
    - Not everyone should be made to take it if they don’t want to
    - Really don’t like 2 shots
    - Why would someone who had covid, get the shot?  Is it one strain?  Are there diff strains and require a diff vaccines?
- Q: where to go to find those answers?
    - I don’t know … CDC, my brother in law (dr)

Second part:
- Shared link: https://www.va.gov/health-care/covid-19-vaccine/
- Q: What are you seeing?
    - Covid vaccines at VA
    - Govt working w/ CDC and other federal partners
    - Very nice and clean website
    - Who is getting it first — I already know that.  This all looks pretty good
    - Like “free” — that is a good one
    - If it rolls to Iron Mt. There are 7 clinics across WI and upper peninsula of MI … with how it is supposed to be stored, how will that happen?
        - Does everyone need to go to VA?  Does someone need to drive 3-4 hours to get the vaccine?  That is a concern I would have especially if they can get it locally. 
        - Get that information from public officer at the VA and publish in the local papers and local news. Worried about those rural veterans and how to get vaccine to them.  
        - Lots of tiny towns and not everyone has a hospital
    - Never had problem w/ privacy act … I’m happy to give you my record.
    - Interested in “How do vaccines for viruses like the coronavirus protect me from getting sick?”
    - Interested in “Can you get the vaccine even if you had Covid 19?”
        - That’s good … why, this is honest.  I see they are doing vaccine trials on this.  
    - Interested in “Can you get the flue vaccine and covid vaccine at the same time?”
        - This is good and a good idea to wait in b/w the vaccines
    - Interested in: How many doses of vaccine you will need?
        - Prefer to have one.
    - Interested in: Can I still get covid after vaccine?
    - Interested: How long will vaccine protect me?
        - One large test
    - Interested in: Find VA Locations
        - This is good .
            - Why: some people don’t know where they are.  
                - NEED TIMES HERE … WORRIED ABOUT GLADSTONE VA CLINIC … IS THIS EVEN OPEN.  NOT SURE IT WAS OPEN.  THIS MAY BE INCORRECT.
    - Q: What hoping to find out by looking at facility locator?
        - What happens if you just moved in the area and will check on your eligibility and transfer over info to the new facility. Need to get pulled into the system. 
    - Interested in: VA Public Health Response
        - What is the VA doing. VA Distribution Plan — scrolling through the plan.  
            - Which vaccine are they doing? How often come in? Do they need to send things out everyday?  Or local hospitals and community care will pay for it?
    - Q: what is missing from main page?
        - Like the apply for VA healthcare online
            - Only clicked into this link
        - Like that there are not a lot of color or pics
        - Don’t see anything else that she is missing
    - Q: How would you sign up to get updates?
        - Sign up for newsletter from facility or email.  Not everyone has iPhone or internet and people live off the grid in the back woods and would only come in with a letter.
        - Just noticed to click in to stay informed:
            - Staying informed about the vaccine … send something to my email
            - Happy that can sign in w/ MyHealtheVet 
            - Wanted to sign in to see what was there
            - Most common to get into medical record and Rx through MyHealtheVet
        - Q:Which prefer to sign in w/
            -  Would prefer to sign in w/ sign in
            - She signs in … Prefers text me updates
            - Entering in the confirm number … do a lot of this on her iPhone
                - I don’t like to go through portal in my work computer. 
                - Thought she already signed in … but had to get a pin code 
                    - HIGHLIGHT YOU DON’T NEED TO SIGN UP TO GET A VACCINE. SOME PEOPLE DO NOT WANT TO PUT OUT THEIR INFORMATION. 
        - Q: are you concerned with the info the form is asking about? 
            - Concerned about the information that is in the system … 
        - Q: what do you think about the last question?
            - They want more information about the vaccine. Sounds like they are trying to get numbers so that they can place an order.  
            - Its ok since I get all my information from MyHealtheVet
        - Q: what do you see here?
            - Thank you for singing up
            - Go to website
            - Still sounds like they are trying to get numbers
        - Q: Now that you submitted, what do you expect?
            - Weekly updates on the vaccine availability
            - They have a specific plan on how they are going to do the roll out.
            - I can always go back in and change it if I don’t want a vaccine …. Go back and submit again changing her status.  
- Q: what are your thoughts overall:
    - I am interested in more information and how it will roll out.
    - I don’t want a 2nd shot.
    - It should be a one shot deal - people don’t want to have to go back. 
    - Nice website. 
    - People don’t have to sign up if they don’t want to … its all about individual choice. 
- Q: who do you feel that this website is intended for?
    - Veteran population. 
    - Not everyone has access to internet or wishes to have access to the internet or the iPhone, etc.
    - Many would prefer to get a letter in the mail. If interested, here are the steps.  
- Q: Anything else you would like to share?
    - No, it would be nice to have a families to get it especially if the veteran has a caretaker (even if caretaker not a veteran) but I understand they can go to local hospital.
    - Pretty straight forward. 
- Q: Any questions?
    - No
