# Conversation Guide Template for Moderated Research

## Moderator logistics

Use #feedback-backchannel *in Slack for real-time feedback from observers.*

*Before the session, send out the observer instructions to your observers (Slackbot will do this for you if you type "observer instructions" into #feedback-backchannel).
In the Attendees section, make sure everyone except the participant is on mute
In the Audio section, click the drop-down arrow and make sure "Play Entry/Exit Chimes" is unchecked
Check your [screensharing setup]
When the participant is ready, begin the session with the following intro*

## Project-specific setup
 - Have live site link ready to share with participant [Live site](https://www.va.gov/health-care/covid-19-vaccine)

 
## Intro - 5 minutes

Thanks for joining us today! My name is Marian Adly and I also have some colleagues on the line observing and taking notes. Today we're going to talk about your thoughts on the COVID-19 vaccine and how you would like to receive information and updates on the vaccine in the months to come.  

Before we start, a few things I want to mention:
- **This entire session should take about 45-60 minutes.** I want to be sure not to keep you much longer, so I may occasionally prompt you with the next question or topic.
- **In this session, we want to hear your honest opinions.** We are not testing your ability. We just want to improve these tools to better meet Veteran's needs. I will not be offended by any opinions you express, and I welcome your feedback.
- **If for any reason and at any time you want to stop the session, please let me know.**
- **Are you comfortable if I record my screen and audio as we talk today?** We use the recordings to confirm that we have captured your opinions accurately. The recordings are destroyed after we complete analysis, and none of your comments will be attributed to you directly.
- If yes: **Once I start recording, I am going to confirm that you are ok with me recording this session once more.**

*Start recording.*
- **I have started recording.** I'd like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record my screen and the audio as we talk today?

## Warm-up Questions (Optional) - 5 minutes
- Do you use the VA for healthcare?
  - Yes
- Do you use Community Care?
  - Yes
  - decision to use one or the other based on referrals for specialty
  - use VA for any other kind of appointment
  - most comfortable at the VA and I like my doctor there
- How do you typically communicate with your doctor?
  - usually call and leave a message, phone
- How often do you go to VA.gov? What for?
- How often do you use MyHealtheVet? What for?
  - once month
  - refill Rx, it's so easy, I love it

### First Task: Would you be interested in receiving the COVID-19 vaccine? 5-10 min
- Are you interested in receiving the COVID-19 vaccine?
  - no, not right away
- Why?
- Why not?
  - just got over having covid
  - I'm a little hesitant to get a vaccine that hasn't been studied long term
  - I don't seek out research on it, I will hear bits and pieces, but to take care of my own mental health, I've been stepping back from the news and trying to protect myself that way
  - the vaccine was developed quikcly, for good reason of course ,and it wouldn't be pushed out if not safe. But it hasn't been studied in the long term, so I might want to wait a year or two to see where it goes
- What information would you need to decide?
  - more studies on safety, especially mental health
  - covid is one of those things where we're not sure how it affects our bodies, neurological impacts
  - long term impacts of the vaccine
- _For those who are interested_ How would you express your interest, say, to your doctor or the VA?
  - I would bring it up at an appt
  - don't think would actively seek it out myself, but would expect my doctor to ask about it
  - If comfortable at that time, would get it then
- What are your expectations after expressing interest?
  - If I were to express interest, would expect a hand out and a vaccine
  - same process as if I got a flu shot
- Where would you go to get the vaccine? Why there?
  - The VA, the clinic I usually go to, so I would go there
  - I could see one day the vaccine being at a walgreens, but who knows when that would be
  - probably go to VA clinic for no specific reason other than that's what I'm used to

**Things to watch for:**
- Does the participant understand their options?
- Capture where the reluctance to receiving vaccine and why.
- Is the participant interested in additional information? (For the vaccine and for how to navigate expressing their interest)
- Are there concerns that can be addressed with proper communications?

### Second Task: How would you like to you like to receive informative updates on vaccine status? 5-10 min
- How soon do you expect you'll be able to get the vaccine? 
  - How will you know when you're able to get the vaccine?
     - I'm relatively healthy, so I don't think I'm high on the list if I did want it right away, but I do work in healthcare
     - I guess within a year, if I wanted it
     - I would expect an email, or text from the VA. I feel like the VA either makes texts or mass phone calls when things comes down the pipeline
- _If interested in receiving the vaccine_ How would you like to learn when the vaccine is available?
  - What is your preferred method?
     - email
     - I tend to check email frequently, when I get texts that aren't from friends or family I ignore them
     - I need to have my inbox a certain way, so I keep on top of my email. I focus more energy on my email
  - How often would you like to get updates on whether the vaccine is available yet or not?
    - no more than once a month
    - 

**Things to watch for:**
- Does the participant seem frustrated with how they have been receiving updates to-date? From VA? Generally?
- Is the participant aware of the prioritization guidelines from CDC and how vaccine will be distributed?
- Is the participant aware of how the prioritization guidelines may impact when they may receive vaccine?  
- What information, if any, would be helpful to the participant?

### Third Task: How would you like to receive general information about the COVID-19 vaccine? 5-10 min
- Where do you typically go to get information about covid-19 vaccines? Why that source?
  - I would google it
  - General google query, it's familiar and easy
- What information would be important to you to know about the vaccine? Where would you want to get that info?
  - I guess really just the long term effects. Research conducted, longitudinal research over 2-3 years just to see any impacts that vaccinated folks are experiencing
  - I'm not sure on experiences or side effects right now
  - do folks lose their taste or smell, do you get covid anyways? Eg flu shot is a best bet to protect against flu but someties you still get it
  - efficacy of the vaccine
  - having just gone thru covid I might have different feelings
- How do you decide what information to trust?
  - the source, if we're talking about research articles, looking at who funded the research. Big Pharma isn't necessarily the most trusted, due to monetary investment in research and vaccine development. Looking into who conducted and funded the research.
  - news article, finding info from the most unbiased source, find sources that compliment each other and have similar info

**Things to watch for:**
- Does the participant express an information gap? Is there interest in receiving additional information from VA?
- Is there a cultural gap in current communications effort?
- Is there any trust concerns with the current information they are receiving?
- Is there any frustration from the Participant on where to find trusted information? 


## Stay Informed Website 20-30 mins

Ok, now I'd like to have you look at a potential solution and get your feedback. I'm going to share a link in the chat. What I'd like to do is have you open that on your computer's internet browser and share your screen so we can follow along with what you're seeing. I'd like you to think out loud as you look at this prototype together. I want to point out that since this is a prototype, not everything will work, so in that case, please tell me what you expect would happen. Remember, there are no right or wrong answers, and your feedback will help us build better tools for Veterans. 
**Share link** [Live site](https://www.va.gov/health-care/covid-19-vaccine/)



### Main Mini Hub page
- What are you seeing here?
  - beginning part is interesting, calls out that info is changing
- What stands out to you?
  - content wise, I feel like there's a lot of unknowns, not providing specific information about the questions that I would want answers to
  - lack of info, and then the part about who is getting the vaccine first, those stand out to me
- (stay informed call out) What is this telling you?
  - What would you be signing up for?
    - assume it's putting an email in, and they would email me when they get new information
    - and then you can find out when you could get a vaccine from the VA, that's nice
- Who is this site for?
  - Veterans and VA healthcare professionals, and I guess anybody with a vested interest in working with Veterans

### On this page links
- Let's say you wanted to find out when you might be able to get the vaccine, how would you do that?
  - [scrolled down], intersting that that's in here. Since I'm younger, I dont' think I'd get the vaccine early unless I worked at the VA
  - Looking at who will get it, Veterans in long term facilities, older Veterans with higher health risks, and VA healthcare personnel. So those in and working with covid patients, that makes sense that those are the first two groups to get it
  - it doesn't talk about Veterans that aren't in long term facilities, but are still at risk of severe illness. That's a little suprising to me that they aren't listed. People in long term care facilities aren't the only ones at risk of long term illness or death. Those Veterans that aren't, it feels a little shitty to be not in a long term facility but still at risk. Feels like they are being left to the side until those first two groups are vaccinated. What happens to the Veterans who aren't in the long term care facilities, if vaccines run out? It makes sense, but it's also kind of crappy. 
  - maybe those not at care facilities can get their vaccine in a different way
- How would you find out more information about the vaccine?
  - Basic info section, oh so it looks like it will go to the bigger hospitals first and then smaller clinics as they get more vaccines
   - So in the beginning, it's telling me that it will cost something, if the plan is to make them free when they get more
   - good plug with the link to apply for healthcare
   - Safety: like I said this is a big thing for me. A lot of what this tells me is again, if I take this for what it is, it tells me they don't know a lot about the safety. No info on side effects or reactions here, but maybe there will be lower on the page
   - Privacy: that they keep track of demographics and adverse reactions, it makes sense that you would track who is getting the vaccine and where.
   -FAQ: didn't know the vaccine would shorten risk and/or length of disease.
     - again, not seeing anything on safety
     - operation warp speed, I didn't know that's what they're calling it, I see links to click thru to learn more, but I don't really care. My mind is pretty made up that I'm not going to get it right now, and have a lot of other things on my mind than to research how they are going to distribute a vaccine I'm not going to get right away
- What information is missing here?
  - [clicked thru FAQ], I heard it was an inactive virus, but people are dumb, sometimes they think the flu shot will give them the virus even though it also is inactive
  - getting flu and vaccine at the same time, never thought about that
  - "We expect that it's ok", but it's also not very clear on if getting both shots is ok
  - I expected safety to be in the FAQ, since that's where the bulk of the info is
  - safety, as with any vaccine, especially somethign that's been developed rapidly, knowin ghte risks would be helpful. It would make sense given that this is the giant website iwth all the info, it would make sense that it would be here so folks can make a more educated decision.
  - I know there have been some adverse reactions and that not being listed here doesn't give the Veteran reading this site the ability to make an informed decision. It feels like they're minimizing any risks by not calling that out. Would like to see something, would expect them to talk about risks and side effects before even talking about whether you can get the covid and flu vaccine at the same time. 
  - it feels very "we don't know anything but here's our plan"
  - would use Google or Google Scholar to find the info that I think is missing here
  - CDC is an option, but I'm a little hestitant to trust the CDC. I think as I've aged I've become more reserved about everything the gov puts out. I tend to lean more towards trusting the WHO since that's a bigger group of intelligent people as opposed to one country worth of people working together.
  - WHO is a place I have gone to in the for information on covid

### Sign up
- Let's say you wanted to sign up to get updates on when a vaccine was available, how would you do that?
  - [sign up buttom]
- _auth vs non-auth flow_ What are you seeing here?
    - we have a signup, what am I signing into?
    - I was thinking MHV, so good to knwo that's one of the options. 
    - MHV since I'm used to it
    - looks like you can also continue without signing in
  - Which option would you choose? Why?
    - knowing you dont need to sign in is also good, cause I'm lazy
    - unless it autopopulate stuff from MHV, which I would expect it to

### Communication sign up form
- What do you think this page is for?
  - this also tells me that if you're not a Veteran, you can't sign up for this
  - it says your SSN needs to match your Veteran record
  - I don't necessarily like that, I get protective of my SSN, since I've had security breaches of it in the past, but I see it's not required, so there's that. It's interesting they would use that to track Veterans, not sure what the purpose would be other than to match it to your records
  - I'm guessin gif the vaccine were available it would then flag the Veterans that signed up for this
- What do you think of the information you're asked to fill out here?
   - all the required stuff makes sense to me, if you're using it to track.
   - DOB and SSN tells me they're matching whatever I put in here with the Veteran system, maybe they are tracking what Veterans sign up, but not sure what that info would be used for
  - _probe on zipcode_
     - 6-12 months option, looks like that's the timeframe they suspect vaccines would be available
     - looks like they're tracking responses and location of responses, to figure out when a vaccine becomes available, they would alert whoever signed up for this form 
  - _probe on interest level radio buttons_
    - interesting that "prefer not to answer" is an option, maybe that's for people who want to get info but want to keep interest private
    - My intial thought is if I said "yes" vs "prefer not to answer", not sure if they would tailor information based on how you respond to this question. If yes do you get more infor on where to get it, vs if you say no or not sure, maybe you get more info on why it would be good to get?
    - weird to me that there would be these different options, maybe you get different info based on your answer
- What would you expect to happen once you fill out this form?
  - I would expect an email to whatever email I put in saying hey you're signed up to get these notifications.
  - as info gets updated, they would send out information periodically about availability, research, when I'm able to get it based on age, etc

### Confirmation/review page
- What are you seeing on this page?
- Let's say you change your mind about your interest in getting the vaccine, say after 6 months, what would you do?
  -  I would unsubscribe from the emails
  - would expect to use unsubscribe feature in Gmail, or unsubscribe from the update email itself.

### Post-Task Interview - 5 minutes
- What are you thoughts on what you looked at today?
  - overall, I think there's not a whole lot of info that the VA knows yet about the vaccine, or when it will be available to more of the Veterans that want or need it. It seems set on getting the first two waves available. 
  - the signup form makes me think it'll be 6-12 months before it's widely available
  - General lack of info, but that's understandable given it only started to get distributed two days ago
  - Seems like they are doing what they can to keep people up to date, seems tightly linked to CDC in this
- Is there anything we didn't ask you that would be important to know?
  - no, I think 
- Do you have any questions about what you saw today?
  - no
- Any questions for me?

### Thank-You and Closing - 5 minutes
Before we go, I just want to mention that what you saw today is something that the VA is considering building to help Veterans like yourself get more information about when a vaccine might be available, but it's not a way to sign up or reserve a spot to get a vaccine. The VA will be following CDC guidelines on how to roll out the vaccine. We really appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us today. Your feedback is helpful to us as we continue to work on solutions to support Veterans’ needs. 


Thanks! Lastly, do you know any other Veterans, caregivers, or service members who might be willing to participate in a future user research session? 

**If Yes:** Thank you! I'll have our team send you an email with a little blurb that you can pass along.
Great, well thank you so much again, and enjoy the rest of your day!



