# Conversation Guide Template for Moderated Research

## Moderator logistics

Use #feedback-backchannel *in Slack for real-time feedback from observers.*

*Before the session, send out the observer instructions to your observers (Slackbot will do this for you if you type "observer instructions" into #feedback-backchannel).
In the Attendees section, make sure everyone except the participant is on mute
In the Audio section, click the drop-down arrow and make sure "Play Entry/Exit Chimes" is unchecked
Check your [screensharing setup]
When the participant is ready, begin the session with the following intro*

## Project-specific setup
 - Have live site link ready to share with participant [Live site](https://www.va.gov/health-care/covid-19-vaccine)

 
## Intro - 5 minutes

Thanks for joining us today! My name is Lauryl Zenobi and I also have some colleagues on the line observing and taking notes. Today we're going to talk about your thoughts on the COVID-19 vaccine and how you would like to receive information and updates on the vaccine in the months to come.  

Before we start, a few things I want to mention:
- **This entire session should take about 45-60 minutes.** I want to be sure not to keep you much longer, so I may occasionally prompt you with the next question or topic.
- **In this session, we want to hear your honest opinions.** We are not testing your ability. We just want to improve these tools to better meet Veteran's needs. I will not be offended by any opinions you express, and I welcome your feedback.
- **If for any reason and at any time you want to stop the session, please let me know.**
- **Are you comfortable if I record my screen and audio as we talk today?** We use the recordings to confirm that we have captured your opinions accurately. The recordings are destroyed after we complete analysis, and none of your comments will be attributed to you directly.
- If yes: **Once I start recording, I am going to confirm that you are ok with me recording this session once more.**

*Start recording.*
- **I have started recording.** I'd like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record my screen and the audio as we talk today?

## Warm-up Questions (Optional) - 5 minutes
- Do you use the VA for healthcare?
  - Yes
- Do you use Community Care?
  - No, I'm retired, and I use the VA and Tricare sometimes for family
  - managing records back and forth between the VA was hard, so now just go to the VA
- How do you typically communicate with your doctor?
  - use secure messaging
  - if I have a question or need, refill Rx
  - doctor will call me directly
  - like secure messaging, usually get a response same day unless late or after hours. I know my doctor gets my requests fairly quickly and answers promptly, quick communication. 
- How often do you go to VA.gov? What for?
   - not very often
   - as of late, I've gone a few times as I've started my doctoral degree so was looking at GI Bill, which I also gave to my wife and kids
- How often do you use MyHealtheVet? What for?
  - when I need to refill Rx or confirm an appt
  - I schedule them far out in advance so sometimes have to check that
  - once a month, some months a little more, depends on needs and Rx, and appts
  - sometimes pull down forms I need

### First Task: Would you be interested in receiving the COVID-19 vaccine? 5-10 min
- Are you interested in receiving the COVID-19 vaccine?
  - yeah, I think
- Why?
  - I haven't caught it yet, haven't been to any concerts
  - from Navy time, you get used to getting lots of shots, none of those killed
  - I believe in better living via medication, I'm not afraid of shots or vaccines. My mom's a nurse, we've talked about it. I don't think I want to be the first, but 
- Why not?
- What information would you need to decide?
  - disclaimers on side effects, potential issues, test results would be good
  - I don't watch a whole lot of tv, I teach online and am doing my own school, and have my family, so don't have a lot of time to watch news
- _For those who are interested_ How would you express your interest, say, to your doctor or the VA?
  - bring it up at my next video appt call or send secure email
  - is there a timeline for the VA? How find out: go to VA.gov, or look at MHV, ask my dotor, work with retired folks, so might pick their brains to see what they've heard as well
- What are your expectations after expressing interest?
  - depends on what doctor says, if it's in stock, however that would work. 
  - if they had it, I would get it, if waiting on distribution would wait
- Where would you go to get the vaccine? Why there?
  - to my clinic, I don't know if that needs to be controlled or given at the hospital, I guess I could go there. Clinic is less than ten minute away, would prefer to go there rather than hospital which is an hour away

**Things to watch for:**
- Does the participant understand their options?
- Capture where the reluctance to receiving vaccine and why.
- Is the participant interested in additional information? (For the vaccine and for how to navigate expressing their interest)
- Are there concerns that can be addressed with proper communications?

### Second Task: How would you like to you like to receive informative updates on vaccine status? 5-10 min
- How soon do you expect you'll be able to get the vaccine? 
   - not sure, I know the first batch of folks are getting it this week
   - whenever it comes around, not really have a specific timeline or need
   - right now for me it's pretty benign, the office space I work in, everyone teleworks, I go into the office since it's easier to get work done there, and there are less than ten folks in the office regularly, and I have my own office there, so have been lucky
  - How will you know when you're able to get the vaccine?
     - I'd imagine the VA would put out a notice to everybody, website or email, or through pracitioners
- _If interested in receiving the vaccine_ How would you like to learn when the vaccine is available?
    - no preference, email is fine
  - What is your preferred method?
  - How often would you like to get updates on whether the vaccine is available yet or not?
    - good question, thinking monthly, quarterly would also be ok. It would depend on general receptivity. If the greatest thing since sliced bread I want to hear about it more, but otherwise get it when you get it.

**Things to watch for:**
- Does the participant seem frustrated with how they have been receiving updates to-date? From VA? Generally?
- Is the participant aware of the prioritization guidelines from CDC and how vaccine will be distributed?
- Is the participant aware of how the prioritization guidelines may impact when they may receive vaccine?  
- What information, if any, would be helpful to the participant?

### Third Task: How would you like to receive general information about the COVID-19 vaccine? 5-10 min
- Where do you typically go to get information about covid-19 vaccines? Why that source?
  - as a researcher, go to the internet, don't mind looking up my own facts and doing my own research
- What information would be important to you to know about the vaccine? Where would you want to get that info?
- How do you decide what information to trust?
  - reputable sources, not Jim and Johns' website, official sources
  - probably like to look at manufacturers website, see what literature they have

**Things to watch for:**
- Does the participant express an information gap? Is there interest in receiving additional information from VA?
- Is there a cultural gap in current communications effort?
- Is there any trust concerns with the current information they are receiving?
- Is there any frustration from the Participant on where to find trusted information? 


## Stay Informed Website 20-30 mins

Ok, now I'd like to have you look at a potential solution and get your feedback. I'm going to share a link in the chat. What I'd like to do is have you open that on your computer's internet browser and share your screen so we can follow along with what you're seeing. I'd like you to think out loud as you look at this prototype together. I want to point out that since this is a prototype, not everything will work, so in that case, please tell me what you expect would happen. Remember, there are no right or wrong answers, and your feedback will help us build better tools for Veterans. 
**Share link** [Live site](https://www.va.gov/health-care/covid-19-vaccine/)

**Note, participant was on mobile so moderator screen shared site**

### Main Mini Hub page
- What are you seeing here?
  - see vaccines at the VA website, looks like working closely with CDC and fed partners to get vaccines out
- What stands out to you?
  - where we will offer vaccines, storage and handling...
  - I'm guessing the hospital would get it first, doesn't say clinic there. And then as available would extend out to other networks, I guess that would be the clinics.
- (stay informed call out) What is this telling you?
  - What would you be signing up for?
    - I would do the signup, I'm hoping the vaccine provides stability get back to get back to precovid days
    - Imagine get current status from the VA on the vaccine, timelines, who's ready to get it, how many people have gotten it
- Who is this site for?
  - VA, Veterans, curious general population to see how the VA is approaching things. Mostly Veterans, maybe family members

### On this page links
- Let's say you wanted to find out when you might be able to get the vaccine, how would you do that?
  - links to more info on the rest of the website
  - would read "who gets it"
  - not surprised there's a limited amount initially, interesting that they're goal is the most good for the most people, imagine that would mean excluding some people. I don't know who exactly would be excluded. Guessing healthy younger people would be at the bottom of the list
   - I would imagine they would put prioritization and who is excluded on this site for transparency, or it might be on the CDC website
   - I can see that after the first two groups, my healthcare team will contact me, that makes sense
   - good to see it's free, I get VA healthcare, so glad it would be free
   - good to see a link to apply for VA healthcare benefits, is that on all pages? Because that would drive me to the VA.gov site
   - [wants to read safety] I hope this is a good vaccine, there's definitely things the gov has covered up
- How would you find out more information about the vaccine?
  - this page or CDC site
  - FAQ: would click on all these pluses, would go down entire list
    - is remdesivir the vaccine? The name for the vaccine?
    - next section, can see who the maker of the vaccine is - Pfizer, next few months, that's good to put some timeline perspective to it, helps sets expectations so I'm not wondering if it'll be ten years before I get it. Gives you hope. Never heard of Operation Warp Speed [clicked link]. Eventually I would want to click on all these things, looks like this is getting put out for general awareness, would want to read it two or three times. I like to be knowledgeable.
    - would then click Fact Sheet, ok that gives me a general idea of Operation Warp Speed
    - Why do I need the vaccine, that's basic and clear
    - how do vaccines work section, is there a way to test antibodies? I wonder if there will be a study on why some don't need it
    - vaccine benefits and certain populations, protecting families by getting vaccinated, good reason why
    - can I get vaccine if I already have it? I would guess yes
    - good to know it's an inactive virus
    - flu and covid separately, that makes sense
    - [clicked thru every FAQ]
- What information is missing here?
  - I don't know, wouldn't mind seeing statistics like how many people got it, howm any need it, the good and bad findings from research. Sometimes pharmaceuticals only like to tell you the good and you don't hear about the bad until later during class action suits. 
  - curious about the volunteer for research, does that mean you are a guinea pig? [clicked into volunteer list]. I don't think I'd volunteer for a research study I don't knwo about, but that's kind of cool. Not ready to volunteer myself.

### Sign up
- Let's say you wanted to sign up to get updates on when a vaccine was available, how would you do that?
  - I think there was a link, yeah, the stay informed link
- _auth vs non-auth flow_ What are you seeing here?
  - can sign in with credentials or not, would expect to see standard login page, yeah, the single sign on thing. I could do any of those three, would choose MHV because that's how I sually go to the VA site
  - after signing in, I'd hope that the information would come up to stay informe
  - Which option would you choose? Why?

### Communication sign up form
- What do you think this page is for?
    - collect some data on you
- What do you think of the information you're asked to fill out here?
    - redundant info, they already have that information if you are receiving care. Guessing if you clicked continue without logging in, this is a way for them to get this data on you, maybe get more Veterans interested in getting healthcare and creating accounts. Standard tracking info on who is clicking continue without signing in
   - would not expect to see this information if signed in. Rather than normal data collection, I'd guess to see the other questions too if signed in. (eg zip code, and interest level would happen even if signed in.
  - _probe on zipcode_
  - _probe on interest level radio buttons_
     - looks like they'd do some analysis based on response, maybe identify reasons why you're not sure if you'd want to get the vaccine. 
     - I wonder if folks put any thought into it
- What would you expect to happen once you fill out this form?
  - Reach back from the VA, maybe why you're not sure or get more info on your interest level
  - maybe more info on the vaccine itself, like on the previous page, info on why it's important
  - info received vary by signed in or not: I don't know
  - I'd guess the VA might use this as a metric for ordering vaccines, quantify interest to prepare for number of doses needed, target folks that didn't want to get it and maybe give them more info and outreach opportunities

### Confirmation/review page
- What are you seeing on this page?
- Let's say you change your mind about your interest in getting the vaccine, say after 6 months, what would you do?
  - for those with an account, I think they could change their response, but don't see that here. Have a link that you could click in the future if you change your mind so you could remove your name, and give a reason why. 

### Post-Task Interview - 5 minutes
- What are you thoughts on what you looked at today?
  - I think it's good information, I think it's adequate to answer a lot of questions folks may have. It's not too technical, not over the top and going over people's heads. 
- Is there anything we didn't ask you that would be important to know?
  - No, nothign jumping 
- Do you have any questions about what you saw today?
- Any questions for me?
  - Dad is a Veteran, and not as fluent in internet, so maybe the older generation may not like all the links, the easier it is for non-internet savvy folks.

### Thank-You and Closing - 5 minutes
Before we go, I just want to mention that what you saw today is something that the VA is considering building to help Veterans like yourself get more information about when a vaccine might be available, but it's not a way to sign up or reserve a spot to get a vaccine. The VA will be following CDC guidelines on how to roll out the vaccine. We really appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us today. Your feedback is helpful to us as we continue to work on solutions to support Veterans’ needs. 


Thanks! Lastly, do you know any other Veterans, caregivers, or service members who might be willing to participate in a future user research session? 

**If Yes:** Thank you! I'll have our team send you an email with a little blurb that you can pass along.
Great, well thank you so much again, and enjoy the rest of your day!



