# Conversation Guide Template for Moderated Research

## Moderator logistics

Use #feedback-backchannel *in Slack for real-time feedback from observers.*

*Before the session, send out the observer instructions to your observers (Slackbot will do this for you if you type "observer instructions" into #feedback-backchannel).
In the Attendees section, make sure everyone except the participant is on mute
In the Audio section, click the drop-down arrow and make sure "Play Entry/Exit Chimes" is unchecked
Check your [screensharing setup]
When the participant is ready, begin the session with the following intro*

## Project-specific setup
 - Have live site link ready to share with participant [Live site](https://www.va.gov/health-care/covid-19-vaccine)

 
## Intro - 5 minutes

Thanks for joining us today! My name is Lauryl Zenobi and I also have some colleagues on the line observing and taking notes. Today we're going to talk about your thoughts on the COVID-19 vaccine and how you would like to receive information and updates on the vaccine in the months to come.  

Before we start, a few things I want to mention:
- **This entire session should take about 45-60 minutes.** I want to be sure not to keep you much longer, so I may occasionally prompt you with the next question or topic.
- **In this session, we want to hear your honest opinions.** We are not testing your ability. We just want to improve these tools to better meet Veteran's needs. I will not be offended by any opinions you express, and I welcome your feedback.
- **If for any reason and at any time you want to stop the session, please let me know.**
- **Are you comfortable if I record my screen and audio as we talk today?** We use the recordings to confirm that we have captured your opinions accurately. The recordings are destroyed after we complete analysis, and none of your comments will be attributed to you directly.
- If yes: **Once I start recording, I am going to confirm that you are ok with me recording this session once more.**

*Start recording.*
- **I have started recording.** I'd like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record my screen and the audio as we talk today?

## Warm-up Questions (Optional) - 5 minutes
- Do you use the VA for healthcare?
    - Yes
- Do you use Community Care?
    - No, not anymore.
    - I did prior to 2016
    - I used to live in rural area away from the VA so used community care for urgent matters
      - use VA solely no
- How do you typically communicate with your doctor?
    - MHV
- How often do you go to VA.gov? What for?
- How often do you use MyHealtheVet? What for?
    - a few times a month
    - mostly for Rx refills or to reschedule appts
    - rescheduled september appts for december

### First Task: Would you be interested in receiving the COVID-19 vaccine? 5-10 min
- Are you interested in receiving the COVID-19 vaccine?
    - absolutely, yes
- Why?
    - they say that if you get the vaccine, you'll have less serious Sx if you get covid, and i definitely want to go for that. I don't know if I have underlying conditions, and that's a heck fo away to find out. 
- Why not?
- What information would you need to decide?
    - It's kililng the world, anything that will help stop that I'm all for. If me getting a vaccine will save somebody else I'll take it
- _For those who are interested_ How would you express your interest, say, to your doctor or the VA?
  - tell doctor, but from what I've heard is they will reach out to us. But I have doubts on that. Will my doctor actually call me if vaccines are avialable ni January if my appt isn't until March?
  - I would like to see clinics like they did with a flu shot, because everyone had access to it, didn't have that extra step of going to doctor. Every extra step has more time to wait, more chances for mistakes. Streamline it and give it to us out in the parking lot. 
- What are your expectations after expressing interest?
  - yeah, ok, we'll let you know, because they don't have it now. They don't know when they'll have it so can't schedule. 
- Where would you go to get the vaccine? Why there?
  - they're saying right now it'll be primary care clinics. I don't know if that's reliable info. I think it would take a lot of time to cycle everyone thru clinics unless there are special arrangements. I think there will be a big rush when things do open up. It might be months done the road. 

**Things to watch for:**
- Does the participant understand their options?
- Capture where the reluctance to receiving vaccine and why.
- Is the participant interested in additional information? (For the vaccine and for how to navigate expressing their interest)
- Are there concerns that can be addressed with proper communications?

### Second Task: How would you like to you like to receive informative updates on vaccine status? 5-10 min
- How soon do you expect you'll be able to get the vaccine?
   - that question remains unanswered, I think I'm in the general population, under 64, not pregnant, no underlying conditions. I have no clue when that would be. 
  - How will you know when you're able to get the vaccine?
- _If interested in receiving the vaccine_ How would you like to learn when the vaccine is available?
   - most reliable way is either they tell everyone on MHV or facebook that it's available. I dont think the clinics have the time or personanel to call every single person. It would take weeks to schedule everyone. The clinics are overworked. 
  - What is your preferred method?
    - It'd be wonderful to get a phone call form teh lcinic and it would be 2-3 weeks to get you in. Learn from a reliable source like a clinic, or make a special clinic and they would call you and give you an estimated timeline for your group. 
  - How often would you like to get updates on whether the vaccine is available yet or not?
    - would love weekly, but that's probably not practical, so once a month would suit.
    - text, email, I don't know the logistics, but I'm sure not all the older Veterans have email. The whole logistics boggles mind me. A lot of different sectors, folks who don't use smart phone. Are they going to rely on mail? 

**Things to watch for:**
- Does the participant seem frustrated with how they have been receiving updates to-date? From VA? Generally?
- Is the participant aware of the prioritization guidelines from CDC and how vaccine will be distributed?
- Is the participant aware of how the prioritization guidelines may impact when they may receive vaccine?  
- What information, if any, would be helpful to the participant?

### Third Task: How would you like to receive general information about the COVID-19 vaccine? 5-10 min
- Where do you typically go to get information about covid-19 vaccines? Why that source?
  - I've been listening to Dr. Fauci, since he's been spearheading it. 
- What information would be important to you to know about the vaccine? Where would you want to get that info?
  - For me, I want to keep tabs on side effects. I supposed I would find that info when I get the vaccine they'd give me a little card with what type I got, when to come back, side effects. 
  - I think this is an overwhelming task to vaccinate the whole population
- How do you decide what information to trust?
  - I dont' trust if I hear it from word of mouth, people I've never heard of before.
  - If the VA director, CMO, came out and said this is the plan, I'd put a lot of stock in that. 
  - Dr. Fauci seems to be someone in charge who knows the plan.
  - On the local level I don't know who to trust, certainly not the Governer. 
  - not seeking out info, waiting for it to come to me. Eg. ABC news, Time magazine, I'll wait to hear from the people in charge.

**Things to watch for:**
- Does the participant express an information gap? Is there interest in receiving additional information from VA?
- Is there a cultural gap in current communications effort?
- Is there any trust concerns with the current information they are receiving?
- Is there any frustration from the Participant on where to find trusted information? 

**moderator shared screen for participant**

## Stay Informed Website 20-30 mins

Ok, now I'd like to have you look at a potential solution and get your feedback. I'm going to share a link in the chat. What I'd like to do is have you open that on your computer's internet browser and share your screen so we can follow along with what you're seeing. I'd like you to think out loud as you look at this prototype together. I want to point out that since this is a prototype, not everything will work, so in that case, please tell me what you expect would happen. Remember, there are no right or wrong answers, and your feedback will help us build better tools for Veterans. 
**Share link** [Live site](https://www.va.gov/health-care/covid-19-vaccine/)



### Main Mini Hub page
- What are you seeing here?
  - VA website, working with CDC and all that
- What stands out to you?
- (stay informed call out) What is this telling you?
   - they'll update me, if they decide Pfiser couldn't deliver because of snow storms so it's set back or we're ready to do the VA now that we've done all the healthcare workers and ready for general population
   - expect email, I get emails from the VA all the time
  - What would you be signing up for?
- Who is this site for?
  - probably for general VA, since usually the VA sends VA info to VA people.
  - this site is for me

### On this page links
- Let's say you wanted to find out when you might be able to get the vaccine, how would you do that?
  - look at rest of page, who will get it first. Let's click on basic info
  - not real helpful, since it just says "Certain VA centers". That increases my anger. I know certain drugs are available on the east coast but not midwest, I don't like when they say it that way. 
  - they should list the 37 VAMC that got it so we can see who is going to get it
  -eligibility: it says the health team will schedule with you, that will take a long time, there's so many people. I'd expect you'd have to make an appointment, and if you don't make an appointment, you're at the bottom of the list
  - not sure why the healthcare link is, if they aren't getting VA healthcare why would they come to the VA instead of their regular doctor? But the homeless Veterans, they shoudl be able to come use this
  -Safety: we're closely monitoring, yeah for 15 minute, but then what? If I get a headache am I supposed to call, how do I know when to call? That's a stupid sentence, how can they keep close track of you? I don't think they could. Reasonable to check for sudden adverse reactions, but as far as long term tracking, how could they do that?
  - if you have a serious reactions, then there should be a line to say contact your doctor, that makes more sense to me
  - Privacy seems like the generic info they use for all vaccines
  - FAQ: Most of these questions I've had answered thru other means
   - choice of vaccine if multiple: not that I care, but others have asked me that
   - I've heard that the VA people will be guinea pigs, because the vaccine is unproven, so they are using the VA to see what happens. I don't think that, but I've heard that from others
   - booster shot: how will they kept track of who needs part one and part two? Can you mix different companies? Get one Pfizer and one Moderna? How do you keep track?
- How would you find out more information about the vaccine?
  - no idea
- What information is missing here?

### Sign up
- Let's say you wanted to sign up to get updates on when a vaccine was available, how would you do that?
  - [back up to the top]
   - hope that would help answer questions as we learn them
- _auth vs non-auth flow_ What are you seeing here?
    - sign in, get updates, they're saying they would inform us as we get more information, that's what I'm wanting
    - I would sign in because I want the updates
    - would take me to a page to enter email
    - I see MHV, that's nice
    - I don't know ID.me or DS Logon, so I choose MHV, looks like you can create
  - Which option would you choose? Why?
    - not sure why you wouldn't sign in
    - maybe those not interested in getting updates wouldn't sign in?
    - if didn't sign in, I'm guessin git would say "goodbye"

### Communication sign up form
- What do you think this page is for?
  - doesn't say how they would send it?
  - if only sending updates, why do they DOB and SSN? Why do they need that info?
  - will match it to your Veterans records, why are they doing that if they're just sending updates, that doesn't seem appropriate.
  - These are people who said they weren't going to sign in, and here you're asking for that information, that's wrong. Since they said they already didn't want the updates. [assumes continue without signing in means don't want update]
- What do you think of the information you're asked to fill out here?
  - _probe on zipcode_
    - Why collecting information if they don't want updates?
    - when I signed in with MHV, that means they will send me updates ia MHV (not sure how other login methods would send updates)
    - if signed in with MHV, would expect to see the questions on the other page. Would ask about zip code and interest, maybe underlying conditions, help them group you into priority groups. 
     - If signed in, that information can help them allot how much vaccine goes to each place, where and when
  - _probe on interest level radio buttons_
- What would you expect to happen once you fill out this form?
  - I have no clue, since they are already saying they don't want updates since they didn't sign in

### Confirmation/review page
- What are you seeing on this page?
- Let's say you change your mind about your interest in getting the vaccine, say after 6 months, what would you do?

### Post-Task Interview - 5 minutes
- What are you thoughts on what you looked at today?
  - I'm glad to see that someone's thinking about putting this on MHV, it looks like it'll eventually come thru clinics which will add a lot of time as opposed to having a vaccine clinic like the flu
  - since I use MHV, I would like to stay informed. I consider MHV to be a higher source as opposed to word of mouth or social media. 
  - why is the MHV and other things in the menu? That doens' tmatch the MHV site [confused VA.gov for MHV]
- Is there anything we didn't ask you that would be important to know?
  - I appreciate getting asked to do this 
  - I have used the VA for 25 and rarely have I been asked
- Do you have any questions about what you saw today?
- Any questions for me?

### Thank-You and Closing - 5 minutes
Before we go, I just want to mention that what you saw today is something that the VA is considering building to help Veterans like yourself get more information about when a vaccine might be available, but it's not a way to sign up or reserve a spot to get a vaccine. The VA will be following CDC guidelines on how to roll out the vaccine. We really appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us today. Your feedback is helpful to us as we continue to work on solutions to support Veterans’ needs. 


Thanks! Lastly, do you know any other Veterans, caregivers, or service members who might be willing to participate in a future user research session? 

**If Yes:** Thank you! I'll have our team send you an email with a little blurb that you can pass along.
Great, well thank you so much again, and enjoy the rest of your day!

Raw Notes from Observer #1:
- Q: Use care in the community care since live in a rural area and use it for urgent matters
- Q: How do you normally communicate w/ dr?
    - MyHealtheVet
- Q: How often to to MHV?
    - Couple of times a month
    - Q:What for?
        - Especially Rx refills and rescheduling appts
- Q: Interested in vaccine?
    - Absolutely yes … to get less serious symptoms of covid
- Q: What info used to get vaccine?
    - The killing in the world … I am for it … If me getting the vaccine is going to save someone from killing them then I will certain get my vaccine.
- Q: How express interest in getting vaccine?
    - That seems like it is in flux
    - Expect my PCP to tell me but I have my doubts
    - Not sure if you are familiar w/ VA system … only see drs every 6 months … he not going to call me
    - Other drs will try to call in to get me schedule
    - I would rather see it like a clinic like the flu shot
- Q: why is that?
    - Everyone had access to it
    - Did not have to go through extra step of seeing a doc … every aextra step adds more time to the wait and adds more opportunities to mistakes …
    - Just give it to us out in the parking lot and make it ieasy
- Q: Expect docs to reach out to you … what about if you reached out?
    - They will say yeah ok, we will let you know. 
    - Can’t schedule an appt now since don’t have enough now
- Q: how would you like to know when it is avail?
    - Most reliable way, tell on Facebook or on MHV
    - Clinics don’t have time or personnel to call every person
    - Would take weeks to schedule everyone in the clinics 
    - They are vastly worked overworked … takes a lot of time to get through this.
- Q: how soon do you expect to get vaccine?
    - That is unanswered … I might be in the general population at the bottom of the list.  I have no clue when it is going to be.
- Q: how would you prefer to find out when it would be avail. What is the best way?
    - Wonderful to get a call … we have xx doses and it will take xx weeks to get you in
    - Make a special clinic
    - From a reliable source - from the clinics
- Q: Where expect to go to get vaccine?
    - Primary care clinic … 
        - Q: what do you think about that?
            - Not sure if that is the truth .. it will take a long time to syphon through the clinic and make special arrangements
            - So many people put off going to dr
            - I am not going to make an appt right away … it might be months before they get to me
- Q: where go to get info about vaccine?
    - Dr. Fauci
    - Q: Why?
        - B/c he was w/ it from the beginning … seems to be the spearhead that knows
- Q: what info is important to know about vaccines?
    - Keep tabs about side effects
- Q: where go to get that info?
    - I suppose when I get the vaccine, they will give me a list of those side effects 
    - I don’t know they are going to do it
    - It is an overwhelming task to vaccinate the whole population
- Q: What info do you trust?
    - People I never heard about for … what is stopping that
    - If I hear it from another veteran hears 
    - Dr. Hill and VA Director and trust her … and share the plan
    - Dr. Fauci I trust him as the dr who knows
    - From local level don’t know who to trust … certainly not the governor
- Q: where to go to find the information 
    - Waiting on that information
    - Time Magazine had article side effects
    - ABC News and television sometime cover it
    - I wait to hear about it from teh people who are in charge.
- Q: how often would you like to get updates?
    - Would like to hear weekly but probably not practical … once a month would suite me
        - Q: how would you like to get it?
            - Text, email, 
            - Worried about older veterans who don’t use the smart phone at all … rely on mail — mail is crazy now and w/ snow storm - don’t know when to get it 
            - It is a heck of a mess
            - How vaccinate whole country

Entering 2nd part of convo:
Q: Any thing else want to share
	no, just want to hear from the right folks
Share link: https://www.va.gov/health-care/covid-19-vaccine/

Missed 2nd part

