# Conversation Guide Template for Moderated Research

## Moderator logistics

Use #feedback-backchannel *in Slack for real-time feedback from observers.*

*Before the session, send out the observer instructions to your observers (Slackbot will do this for you if you type "observer instructions" into #feedback-backchannel).
In the Attendees section, make sure everyone except the participant is on mute
In the Audio section, click the drop-down arrow and make sure "Play Entry/Exit Chimes" is unchecked
Check your [screensharing setup]
When the participant is ready, begin the session with the following intro*

## Project-specific setup
 - Have live site link ready to share with participant [Live site](https://www.va.gov/health-care/covid-19-vaccine)

 
## Intro - 5 minutes

Thanks for joining us today! My name is Lauryl Zenobi and I also have some colleagues on the line observing and taking notes. Today we're going to talk about your thoughts on the COVID-19 vaccine and how you would like to receive information and updates on the vaccine in the months to come.  

Before we start, a few things I want to mention:
- **This entire session should take about 45-60 minutes.** I want to be sure not to keep you much longer, so I may occasionally prompt you with the next question or topic.
- **In this session, we want to hear your honest opinions.** We are not testing your ability. We just want to improve these tools to better meet Veteran's needs. I will not be offended by any opinions you express, and I welcome your feedback.
- **If for any reason and at any time you want to stop the session, please let me know.**
- **Are you comfortable if I record my screen and audio as we talk today?** We use the recordings to confirm that we have captured your opinions accurately. The recordings are destroyed after we complete analysis, and none of your comments will be attributed to you directly.
- If yes: **Once I start recording, I am going to confirm that you are ok with me recording this session once more.**

*Start recording.*
- **I have started recording.** I'd like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record my screen and the audio as we talk today?

## Warm-up Questions (Optional) - 5 minutes
- Do you use the VA for healthcare?
  - I do
- Do you use Community Care?
  - Yes
  - I use Comm Care for specialty services, but not for primary care
- How do you typically communicate with your doctor?
  - Secure messaging
- How often do you go to VA.gov? What for?
  - 1-2 a month
  - usually to see new information, sometimes you hear things second hand and I like to go to the VA.gov to fact check information
- How often do you use MyHealtheVet? What for?
  - twice a week
  - mostly secure messaging or to review labs

### First Task: Would you be interested in receiving the COVID-19 vaccine? 5-10 min
- Are you interested in receiving the COVID-19 vaccine?
  - No
- Why?
- Why not?
  - I've had reactions to other injections, so I try to stay away from things that could drug interactions and such
- What information would you need to decide?
  - I would want a couple more years of seeing people's reactions to it, safety procedures, if there is any long term effects, and research that comes out if there's a second injection needed, or if the coronavirus mutates and we need annual injections
- _For those who are interested_ How would you express your interest, say, to your doctor or the VA?
  - I would use secure messaging, and say I'm interested, what are your thoughts? My doctor is familiar with me and would be able to ascertain if it'd be a good fit or not. 
  - Because I have a brain injury, I forget things, so secure messaging is easy for me because I can go back and track 
- What are your expectations after expressing interest?
  - usually they respond in a day or two, and if I were a good candidate, I'd want to know manufacturer, and if it's not one I'm comfy with after my research, I'd ask for another manufacturer option. If not available, I'd ask to go on a waiting list or go to the community
- Where would you go to get the vaccine? Why there?
  - prefer local VA, since my medical records would be in one spot, vs going to walgreens and the info doesn't get back to the VA

**Things to watch for:**
- Does the participant understand their options?
- Capture where the reluctance to receiving vaccine and why.
- Is the participant interested in additional information? (For the vaccine and for how to navigate expressing their interest)
- Are there concerns that can be addressed with proper communications?

### Second Task: How would you like to you like to receive informative updates on vaccine status? 5-10 min
- How soon do you expect you'll be able to get the vaccine? 
    - maybe the next two months that it would be available for someone other than first responders, healthcare workers, those with serious illnesses
  - How will you know when you're able to get the vaccine?
    - usually our news puts it out, when it's coming in. 
    - local newspaper has been really good about saying when and where it's going
    - I would trust the VA to at least have a ballpark figure
- _If interested in receiving the vaccine_ How would you like to learn when the vaccine is available?
  - What is your preferred method?
    - I'd like to get a text or an email from the VA saying "here's where we stand, you may have heard", locale specific information on rollout, how to get it
    - I don't like the long emails with all the details, I want the blurb
  - How often would you like to get updates on whether the vaccine is available yet or not?
    - once a week, because it's on the forefront of everyone's convesations, so once a week would be good to stay on top of everything

**Things to watch for:**
- Does the participant seem frustrated with how they have been receiving updates to-date? From VA? Generally?
- Is the participant aware of the prioritization guidelines from CDC and how vaccine will be distributed?
- Is the participant aware of how the prioritization guidelines may impact when they may receive vaccine?  
- What information, if any, would be helpful to the participant?

### Third Task: How would you like to receive general information about the COVID-19 vaccine? 5-10 min
- Where do you typically go to get information about covid-19 vaccines? Why that source?
  - usually go to NIH, start there
  - because of my son's reactions, go to the NAID site, and then go to the CDC last because they use a lot of jargon
  - I haven't found a good one on the VA website yet about vaccine specifically, they have stuff about coronavirus
  - I've checked international news just to see what other countries are up to
  - I would like to see info on MHV, I called the covid help line and it wasn't much help. They weren't very compassionate about answering questions so I got turned off. 
- What information would be important to you to know about the vaccine? Where would you want to get that info?
  - past studies, want to compare manufacturers to see if there are differences or different reactions, shipping and safety information. Would want to know who manufacturer is. I want to know some of the things like the additives, stablizesr, etc, so if I have an allergy to something I can be better prepared for it. How many reactions have there been? Are they continuing research
  - My son has had reactions to the flu shots so we go to different manufacturers to find ones that are safe not just for me but also family
  - VA.gov, NIH, CDC, NIH breaks it down easier than CDC sometimes, manufacturers website
- How do you decide what information to trust?
  - well reputed program, like NIH or CDC 
  - not news or social media
  - go to hospital or research facilities

**Things to watch for:**
- Does the participant express an information gap? Is there interest in receiving additional information from VA?
- Is there a cultural gap in current communications effort?
- Is there any trust concerns with the current information they are receiving?
- Is there any frustration from the Participant on where to find trusted information? 


## Stay Informed Website 20-30 mins

Ok, now I'd like to have you look at a potential solution and get your feedback. I'm going to share a link in the chat. What I'd like to do is have you open that on your computer's internet browser and share your screen so we can follow along with what you're seeing. I'd like you to think out loud as you look at this prototype together. I want to point out that since this is a prototype, not everything will work, so in that case, please tell me what you expect would happen. Remember, there are no right or wrong answers, and your feedback will help us build better tools for Veterans. 
**Share link** [Live site](https://www.va.gov/health-care/covid-19-vaccine/)



### Main Mini Hub page
- What are you seeing here?
  - covid 19 vaccines at the VA, kind of buried under manage benefits in the side menu, would like to see that further up instead of right near prosthetic socks, since it's on everyone's minds these days. I think there are more people worried about vaccines than about prosthetic socks
- What stands out to you?
- (stay informed call out) What is this telling you?
    -  Doesn't tell me if I'm going to get texts, emails, ohone, secure messaging. It doesn't tell me how I'm going to stay informed
    - if interested will let me know when one is available
    - So I give them a little info and they can be better about communicating
    - like that you don't have to sign up to get a vaccine, a lot of Veterans are leary about vaccines from our experience in the military
    - I'd like to see if it's email alerts or text alerts, so I know what information I'm going to be sharing
  - What would you be signing up for?
- Who is this site for?

### On this page links
- Let's say you wanted to find out when you might be able to get the vaccine, how would you do that?
  - links, so I would know where I stand about not just Veterans getting it but healthcare personnel as well. 
  - assuming drs and nurses would get it as well as Veterans in long term, which is how it should be, they are at high risk
  - rationale for decisions, criteria and who's at risk, why those groups would get the vaccine first, link to CDC website - I like that because I'm programmed to go straight to the horses mouth and not go by hearsay, so it takes me directly to the CDC which is what they base this info off of. So I could browse around at my own leisure. I might also check how the flu is going to work with this too. So I like having that link there. 
- How would you find out more information about the vaccine?
  - basic information about the vaccine, where it's offered, eligbility, storage, safety, etc
  - Been hearing about the logistics of getting it some places, that's nice to see htey've acknowleged that's an issue, might relay some fears for those in rural areas
  - when more vaccines available they'll expand it into the community, some folks are hours away from a VA facility, so if they know it will be offered in their community, that's a good thing for them to know. 
  - I like eligbility and cost. The phrasing that it's offered to those who want one, that's important, as Veterans, we can be leary, we like to be able to chose it. The fact that you acknowledge we have a right to chose is important. Team will contact us, I'm not sure, unless we're at high risk, I'm not sure if the teams can contact everyone. Unless that connects to the sign up updates above and then we can call in. 
  - if not getting healthcare, I like that the link is here to apply for VA healthcare. This might inspire some to get healthcare
  -Safety: based on what they said before, assuming this comes from CDC guidelines, and I'd like to see maybe side effects that are common. So if my arm swells and I get a fever I don't panic. If it lasts more than three days then it says I should call, etc. Woud like to see side effects to look for or be prepared for. 
  - recording tracking system. I like that. I got a flu shot and shingles shot at the same time and I was knocked off for a few days, but I knew ahead of time so I was prepared. Unless you had that info, you wouldn't know to expect that.
  - Privacy: adverse reactions is under privacy, not really something you think of. I appreciate you can share the information but would be anonymous. Would assume HIPPA would apply.
  -FAQ: Authorization process: don't know why the cure question is under here, that doesn't seem to fit under here. The other two fit in this section. That would make more sense under the Getting Vaccine section. 
   - answers about why I need to get one, I'd be clicking on this information to see if I'm exluded based on conditions
   - I really like this, can you get the vaccine if you've had covid. I like that, since a lot of news I've seen is about how the virus mutates and people get it a second time, so that's good information.
   - getting covid from the vaccine, that's good information to debunk conspiracies.
   - choice of vaccine: I like that, because it gives me the option to research manufacturers and their side effects, which gives me peace of mind
   - changing mind, good to see that yes you can. I appreciate they tell you to cancel appt if you do change your mind.
   - doses, booster dose, good information
   - post care for after getting vaccine, this aligns with everything I've heard so far, we don't know because everything is so new. i appreciate that being there.
   - resources on how to apply for care, and find locations, things to know
- What information is missing here?
  - I'd like to see if other resources listed, like a DoD or NIH, or FDA website, or mentions about finding additional information 
  - I'd like to have a phone number if I have questions that I can call. I think there is a covid hotline, I've called htem. But I don't see that phone number here. Some of us with brain injuries, I'll read this, but will forget this in half an hour. So having another learning style (phone), that I can listen to I will remember better. 

### Sign up
- Let's say you wanted to sign up to get updates on when a vaccine was available, how would you do that?
  - [go up here, click stay informed]
- _auth vs non-auth flow_ What are you seeing here?
    - how to stay informed, help us prepare, I don't know what I'm helping you prepare. prepare to order vaccines based on interest? I'm confused on the help prepare part, what am I helping you do?
     - [reads] help prepare, still not sure what I'm helping you prepare for. By signing up you get an idea based on interest? I don't understand the help us prepare part. I would like that clarified. I'm not helping them prepare to receive it. Are you helping me to be prepared and ready to come in with the information we need?
     - you giving me info helps me prepare to come in and be educated
  - Which option would you choose? Why?
    - see two options to sign in or not, sign in will autofil
    - A littel leary, am I signing into VA.gov, MHV?
    - I would continue without signing in, since I don't know where it's sending me to, even though it's a trusted website
    - tells me I'm jsut signing up for information, not to get the vaccine.
    - using it to gauge interest and help us get prepared
    - sign in: this is usually what I see when I sign into VA.gov, very familiar with this page. usually use MHV, since that's saved on my computer, and it autofills. Would expect after signing it, it would take me to a VA.gov website. 
    - happy to use MHV [click sign in with MHV, uses MFA]
    - signed in, see the same page as before. So I'll click that button, and assume it will take me somewhere to put in my info, and it'll give me the option to do email or text or it will tell me what way it'll come

### Communication sign up form
- What do you think this page is for?
  - for signing up, so they can get prepared for the amount of vaccines they will have avialble and if you're going to be in that area.
  - assuming it'll take about a year, 6-12 months for them to get out and get everyone vaccinated
- What do you think of the information you're asked to fill out here?
  - _probe on zipcode_
    - for location
  - _probe on interest level radio buttons_
    - I'm a no to not sure, because I'd want to discuss it with my doctor
    - that's a conversation I'd need to have with my doctor
    - It still doesn't tell me, I'm filling out the form, but still not sure how I would get updates. Email? postcard? text me?
     - would prefer email, I like a blurb in here that says how your updates will come or give you options
- What would you expect to happen once you fill out this form?
  - that I would get another screen saying it's submitted, or that screen will tell me how I will get updates, by which methods
  - [hits submit]
  - I know people who don't get texts because they have flip phones, so that won't do them any good

### Confirmation/review page
- What are you seeing on this page?
  - confirmation, when new info is shared, will happen by email or text. I'd like to chose which one. I'd like the option, email/text/both, so I know how I'll get it. 
  - like the disclaimer that you're just sogning up for info, not the vaccine. This also verifies that this is being used to gauge interest, I like that.
  - would like to see a link that would give me info on my local VA, like my local CBOC's phone number, local facility resources. How this will work in rural, low population areas. 
- Let's say you change your mind about your interest in getting the vaccine, say after 6 months, what would you do?
  - Says I can submit a new form. It doesn't say it sent me an email, so I'd have to remember to go back to this site, have to remember where to go.
  - If I got an email, there should be a reminder in that email and there's a link and it would take me to where I could submit a new form. Make that easy. 
  

### Post-Task Interview - 5 minutes
- What are you thoughts on what you looked at today?
  - I like the layout, I like how it's clean and not a lot of medical-ese. Straightforward information that's easy to read and easy to understand. It does exactly what it says it should do. It's short and sweet, not long and drawn out. Easily digestible. Still would like a phone number, even here on this page, a phone number where if you still have question you could call the VA. Right now, outside of these pages, I don't know where else to turn outside of my clinic. 
  - I like how it's not pushy about "you need to get the vaccine". It's factual. 
- Is there anything we didn't ask you that would be important to know?
  - no
  -  I like that it's short, succint. 
- Do you have any questions about what you saw today?
- Any questions for me?

### Thank-You and Closing - 5 minutes
Before we go, I just want to mention that what you saw today is something that the VA is considering building to help Veterans like yourself get more information about when a vaccine might be available, but it's not a way to sign up or reserve a spot to get a vaccine. The VA will be following CDC guidelines on how to roll out the vaccine. We really appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us today. Your feedback is helpful to us as we continue to work on solutions to support Veterans’ needs. 


Thanks! Lastly, do you know any other Veterans, caregivers, or service members who might be willing to participate in a future user research session? 

**If Yes:** Thank you! I'll have our team send you an email with a little blurb that you can pass along.
Great, well thank you so much again, and enjoy the rest of your day!


Raw Notes from Observer #1: (actionable considerations are in bold)

- Q: Interested in vaccine
    - No, had reactions to other injections and stay away from anything that does not make my health better.  Too many reactions in the past.
- Q: What info needed to feel comfortable?
    - A couple more years of peoples reactions and safety procedures and any long terms effects from it and if there is a 2nd injection needed or if the virus mutates and if need more vaccinations
- Q: where get that info
    - From VA and CDC
    - Manufacturers
    - NIH: NIH website breaks it down easier than CDC
- Q: What info to trust?
    - Well reputed program such as NIH and CDC and not a news program, social media, or news article.  The actual research facilities, Johns Hopkins, and in Bethesda
- Q: What info is important about vaccine?
    - Past studies have shown
    - Compare it with Pfizer and other manufacturer to see diff … if have similar studies and reactions
    - How came to the decision about shipping it?
    - I would want to know the manufacturer, what the additional ingredients in the vaccine and not the primary ingredient for allergy reasons and how many reactions they have had and if they are continuing research.
    - My son has had reactions even to flu shot … needed to find diff manufacturer for flu vaccine to find one w/o allergies
    - Researching for me and family
- Q: If were interested w/ vaccine, how would you express interest to dr or VA?
    - Secure message and say I am interested and what are your thoughts
    - Dr. Would ascertain if I would be a good fit or not
    - Has a brain injury and secure message provides a history and cannot forget 
- Q: If share that message w/ dr, what do you expect?
    - Expect respond in a day or so 
    - Know who the manufacturer … do research
    - Maybe ask about taking another vaccine and be put on waiting list
- Q: where prefer get vaccine?
    - Prefer my VA since my primary is there and where all my records are at
    - Don’t prefer Walgreens, or pharmacy
- Q: how soon expect to get it?
    - In Idaho, we are out of reach due to shipment for refrigerant … perhaps in the next 2 months after first line workers, healthcare workers, and those w/ breathing conditions, heart conditions, and diabetes
- Q: How will you know?
    - Our news and local news paper will report it out and give me a heads up and ask questions of my primary 
    - May say January but in reality it may be June
- Q: preferred method of communication?
    - Text or email from VA and this is where we stand
    - Don’t like the long emails … get through half way and done care
    - Just want the blurb
- Q: how often receive updates?
    - Once a week would be good to stay on top of everything
- Q: Where do you go to get info about vaccines?
    - NIH website … I start there
    - B/c of my sons immunology issues … I go to NIAID
    - Save CDC for last … use too much jargon and not layman’s terms
    - Have not found a good one on VA website yet … especially about the vaccine
    - Over seas news in US and Australia
- Q: Any other thoughts or anything to add?
    - No, I would like to see the info put on my MHV and w/ links
    - Called covid helpline and were not compassionate about answering questions and not helpful at all and were short and just asked if I wanted vaccine or not and it turned me off.

2nd part website
Shared link: https://www.va.gov/health-care/covid-19-vaccine/

Q: What are you seeing?
- Covid vaccine at VA
- King of buried on the left hand side under “Manage benefits” … I would like to see it much further up rather than under “order prosthetic socks” and up higher
- Option to sign up to stay informed
    - Q: what does that tell you?
        - Does not say anything about how I am going to stay informed … text, phone, etc.
        - I need to give them info so that they can be better about communicating
        - I like I don’t need to sign up to get vaccine
            - Many veterans are very leary … did not have fond memories about those experience while in the military
        - I like the link to the CDC website … b/c I am programmed to go straight to the horse’s mouth and not hearsay. Give me a chance to browse around for that info. 
        - In Idaho, we have many that are out hours away from a VA facility … that would be a good for them to know so that they don’t have to drive through avalanche territory
        - I like eligibility and cost … especially saying offering to those “who want one”. We are very leary of vaccines.  
        - She doubts the message that “your team will contact you…” don’t know of the VA who will call every person to coordinate on this.
        - I like to apply for VA Health
        - Under safety would like to see a list of common know side effects.  
        - I like the reporting information.  I had the shingles and flu vaccines together but I was prepared for it since they had warned me ahead of time.
        - Like under privacy that adverse reactions to the vaccine and that it will keep person anonymous
        - For authorization, not sure why the “cure” question is under it.  This may not belong here and maybe better under “getting a vaccine” section.
        - I really like about getting vaccine if you had the virus … lots of news outlets talking about the virus mutating and if the vaccine protect.
        - I like can I get the virus fro the vaccine —this is part of the conspiracy thing.
        - Really like the question about choosing the vaccine and gives me peace of mind after I research manufacturers information.
        - I’d like to see if there can be additional websites (NIH, military based website, FDA). Include the FDA link in the question about choosing which vaccine to receive. 
        - Any information missing:  
            - I would like to have a phone number if I have questions.  
            - Some of this w/ brain injuries, I will read this and forget about this.
            - I need another way to learn it … by listening than reading. 
- Q: how would you stay informed?
    - I would click on sign up to stay informed. 
    - I don’t know how I will help prepare … do they order more vaccines.  
    - I am confused on “Help us prepare” 
        - I don’t know what I will be doing
        - Would like this clarified … “We need your help to prepare”
    - That’s good to have 2 options to sign in or continue w/o signing into 
        - Wary b/c do not want to sign into a different website
        - This is a trusted website but don’t know where it is sending me
        - Would continue w/o signing in
        - Using algorithm to gauge interest 
    - Q: Get your thoughts when sign in
        - This is what I usually see when I sign in and I am very familiar with this
        - I sign in w/ MHV and it autofills it in
    - Q: What would you expect w/ MHV?
        - It would take me to the va.gov website. 
        - She sign into MHV:
            - Same page as before … Sign up to stay informed.  Log in there and I assume it will take me to enter my information to get notification about the latest updates.
            - Q: What is the page for?
                - Signing up for the VA to be prepared for vaccine availability.May take 6 months to 1 year to order. 
                - I am between No to not sure yet … so I will click on “I’m not sure” b/c it is a convo I need to have w/ my dr. 
                - I still don’t know how will I be informed … email me, text me, postcard … They should say in the form so you can choose how to receive updates and know what you are getting yourself into. 
                - Q: which do you prefer?
                    - Prefer email
                - Q: what assume?
                    - If I submit, I still don’t know how I will be communicated.
                    - I will probably get a confirmation after I submit. 
                    - She submits the form. 
                    - I know guys my age who still have flip phones and don’t get texts.  And many rural areas in Montana, Idaho, etc. don’t have cell phone signal. 
                    - Sees information about receive info by email or text … should have options: email, text, or both.
                    - She likes remember about you are not signing up for the vaccine it is about keeping informed. 
                    - Provide a link to their local VA and to have the phone number and location handy. 
                    - Q: If change mind about vaccine, what would you do?
                        - Submit a new form and change.
- Q: Thoughts on everything:
    - Like the layout - clean and not a lot of medicalease — easy to understand the information
    - Short and sweet
    - Still would like the phone number on confirmation page and call VA about vaccine
    - I like the setup a lot
    - I like its not pushy and how its factual

