# Conversation Guide Template for Moderated Research

## Moderator logistics

Use #feedback-backchannel *in Slack for real-time feedback from observers.*

*Before the session, send out the observer instructions to your observers (Slackbot will do this for you if you type "observer instructions" into #feedback-backchannel).
In the Attendees section, make sure everyone except the participant is on mute
In the Audio section, click the drop-down arrow and make sure "Play Entry/Exit Chimes" is unchecked
Check your [screensharing setup]
When the participant is ready, begin the session with the following intro*

## Project-specific setup
 - Have live site link ready to share with participant [Live site](https://www.va.gov/health-care/covid-19-vaccine/stay-informed)

 
## Intro - 5 minutes

Thanks for joining us today! My name is Lauryl Zenobi and I also have some colleagues on the line observing and taking notes. Today we're going to talk about your thoughts on the COVID-19 vaccine and how you would like to receive information and updates on the vaccine in the months to come.  

Before we start, a few things I want to mention:
- **This entire session should take about 45-60 minutes.** I want to be sure not to keep you much longer, so I may occasionally prompt you with the next question or topic.
- **In this session, we want to hear your honest opinions.** We are not testing your ability. We just want to improve these tools to better meet Veteran's needs. I will not be offended by any opinions you express, and I welcome your feedback.
- **If for any reason and at any time you want to stop the session, please let me know.**
- **Are you comfortable if I record my screen and audio as we talk today?** We use the recordings to confirm that we have captured your opinions accurately. The recordings are destroyed after we complete analysis, and none of your comments will be attributed to you directly.
- If yes: **Once I start recording, I am going to confirm that you are ok with me recording this session once more.**

*Start recording.*
- **I have started recording.** I'd like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record my screen and the audio as we talk today?

## Warm-up Questions (Optional) - 5 minutes
- Do you use the VA for healthcare?
    -yes
- Do you use Community Care?
    -no, but I love my VA doctor
- How do you typically communicate with your doctor?
   - usually thru MHV, secure messaging
   - I have her phone number, but don't call her
- How often do you go to VA.gov? What for?
    - depends on claims
    - More recently to get CT appointment
- How often do you use MyHealtheVet? What for?
   -  3 or four times a month, mostly to get meds filled

### First Task: Would you be interested in receiving the COVID-19 vaccine? 5-10 min
- Are you interested in receiving the COVID-19 vaccine?
   - absolutely not
- Why?
- Why not?
   - way too fast and way too soon, I think we're going to see some bad stuff come from the vaccine
- What information would you need to decide?
   - not going to take it no matter what
- _For those who are interested_ How would you express your interest, say, to your doctor or the VA?
- What are your expectations after expressing interest?
- Where would you go to get the vaccine? Why there?

**Things to watch for:**
- Does the participant understand their options?
- Capture where the reluctance to receiving vaccine and why.
- Is the participant interested in additional information? (For the vaccine and for how to navigate expressing their interest)
- Are there concerns that can be addressed with proper communications?

### Second Task: How would you like to you like to receive informative updates on vaccine status? 5-10 min
- How soon do you expect you'll be able to get the vaccine? 
    - How will you know when you're able to get the vaccine?
- _If interested in receiving the vaccine_ How would you like to learn when the vaccine is available?
  - What is your preferred method?
  - How often would you like to get updates on whether the vaccine is available yet or not?

**Things to watch for:**
- Does the participant seem frustrated with how they have been receiving updates to-date? From VA? Generally?
- Is the participant aware of the prioritization guidelines from CDC and how vaccine will be distributed?
- Is the participant aware of how the prioritization guidelines may impact when they may receive vaccine?  
- What information, if any, would be helpful to the participant?

### Third Task: How would you like to receive general information about the COVID-19 vaccine? 5-10 min
- Where do you typically go to get information about covid-19 vaccines? Why that source?
   - mostly online
- What information would be important to you to know about the vaccine? Where would you want to get that info?
   - touting this as the latest and greatest, most fantastic thing. They found a cure in 8 months and we still have the common flu, and we can't whip that? So there's no way to fix this in 8 months, same with cancer, HIV
- How do you decide what information to trust?
   - I've got friends who are med professionals, and I have some medical background myself, and bounce things back and forth
   - too fast too soon
   - it feels like walking on water
   - if doctor wanted me to, I wouldn't, and she would be ok with it
   - only thing I've taken in the pneumonia shot, I don't take the flu shot
   - I'd get the pneumonia vaccine and the shingles again
- What do you think could be done to convey this message more effectively to skeptics such as yourself?
   - Don't have a good answer. My and my friends are conspiracy theorists, so there's always something behind what the gov is involved
   - not necessarily that the gov is involved, because I don't take the flu vaccines

**Things to watch for:**
- Does the participant express an information gap? Is there interest in receiving additional information from VA?
- Is there a cultural gap in current communications effort?
- Is there any trust concerns with the current information they are receiving?
- Is there any frustration from the Participant on where to find trusted information? 


## Stay Informed Website 20-30 mins

Ok, now I'd like to have you look at a potential solution and get your feedback. I'm going to share a link in the chat. What I'd like to do is have you open that on your computer's internet browser and share your screen so we can follow along with what you're seeing. I'd like you to think out loud as you look at this prototype together. I want to point out that since this is a prototype, not everything will work, so in that case, please tell me what you expect would happen. Remember, there are no right or wrong answers, and your feedback will help us build better tools for Veterans. 
**Share link** [Live site](https://www.va.gov/health-care/covid-19-vaccine/stay-informed)



### Main Mini Hub page
- What are you seeing here?
   - covid 19 vaccines at the VA
   - I know the VA was supposed to get a bunch of vaccines to start giving to Veterans
- What stands out to you?
   - who will get vaccine first
   - what groups of people are considered first to get the vaccine
   - basic information about getting vaccine at VA,feels like a vague answer without any sort of timeline. I'd be looking for. timeline: if I'd filled out form and was interested, the VA has access to all my med records, and they should be able to group Veterans by risk factors. 
 -expect notification by text message, phone, or MHV message, I'd get them all
   - a lot of Veterans are older, might not be as comfortable with electronic messages
   - I would expect info by text message, by phone call, or email
   - no preference, they all go to my phone
- (stay informed call out) What is this telling you?
 - stay informed - sign up to show interest
    - don't need to sign up, can get one when it's available
    - What would you be signing up for?
    - not sure, looks like a way for them to send you more information about how and when to get the vaccine
- Who is this site for?
    - probably for people who don't try to stay up to date around what's going on, for folks who might not know when or if it will be available

### On this page links
- Let's say you wanted to find out when you might be able to get the vaccine, how would you do that?
 -[clicked sign up button]
   - would send my doctor/team a message thru MHV to ask when I could get it
   - sometimes it takes them a day or two to get back, and would get a message back about when it's available
   - not sure how the VA is going to handle different risk factors to decide when you get can it
- How would you find out more information about the vaccine?
- What information is missing here?

### Sign up
- Let's say you wanted to sign up to get updates on when a vaccine was available, how would you do that?
- _auth vs non-auth flow_ What are you seeing here?
    -information to help VA see who will sign up to try to get the vaccine
    - [reads disclaimer] 
    - looks like even if you signed up youw ouldn't have toget the vaccine but it lets them track who would want to get it
- Which option would you choose? Why?
    - without signing in, not interested in getting the vaccine
    - signing in would be just another way to track you

### Communication sign up form
- What do you think this page is for?
    - fill out form, first last, dob, ssn, email, phone etc
    - demographic information
- What do you think of the information you're asked to fill out here?
  - _probe on zipcode_
     - gives them a geographic area for you, because there are hotspots in different areas, and they want to see if you're in a hotspot, that'd be my guess
  - _probe on interest level radio buttons_
   -typical of web form 
     - legit question, as long as you give htem an honest answer, as for now my answer is no
     - wasn't going to put ssn since it's optional, wouldn't put it on anything anyways
- What would you expect to happen once you fill out this form?
    -it goes into huge database
    - whether I signed in or not, since they can connect who I am, whether I signed in or not is irrelevant
 

### Confirmation/review page
- What are you seeing on this page?
   - info received, and they give you a link to visit vaccine page for latest info and common questions
- Let's say you change your mind about your interest in getting the vaccine, say after 6 months, what would you do?
   - send a message to primary care provider to indicate interest
   - update form: submit a new form

### Post-Task Interview - 5 minutes
- What are you thoughts on what you looked at today?
   - it's well presented, allows you to get to where you need to go to fill out the form
- Is there anything we didn't ask you that would be important to know?
   - not that I can think of
- Do you have any questions about what you saw today?
   - what is this more resources show? ah, not related to covid-19
   - no, pretty straightforward, easy to understand
   -FAQ drop downs, looking at community
- Any questions for me?

### Thank-You and Closing - 5 minutes
Before we go, I just want to mention that what you saw today is something that the VA is considering building to help Veterans like yourself get more information about when a vaccine might be available, but it's not a way to sign up or reserve a spot to get a vaccine. The VA will be following CDC guidelines on how to roll out the vaccine. We really appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us today. Your feedback is helpful to us as we continue to work on solutions to support Veterans’ needs. 


Thanks! Lastly, do you know any other Veterans, caregivers, or service members who might be willing to participate in a future user research session? 

**If Yes:** Thank you! I'll have our team send you an email with a little blurb that you can pass along.
Great, well thank you so much again, and enjoy the rest of your day!


