# Conversation Guide Template for Moderated Research

## Moderator logistics

Use #feedback-backchannel *in Slack for real-time feedback from observers.*

*Before the session, send out the observer instructions to your observers (Slackbot will do this for you if you type "observer instructions" into #feedback-backchannel).
In the Attendees section, make sure everyone except the participant is on mute
In the Audio section, click the drop-down arrow and make sure "Play Entry/Exit Chimes" is unchecked
Check your [screensharing setup]
When the participant is ready, begin the session with the following intro*

## Project-specific setup
 - Have live site link ready to share with participant [Live site](https://www.va.gov/health-care/covid-19-vaccine/stay-informed)

 
## Intro - 5 minutes

Thanks for joining us today! My name is Lauryl Zenobi and I also have some colleagues on the line observing and taking notes. Today we're going to talk about your thoughts on the COVID-19 vaccine and how you would like to receive information and updates on the vaccine in the months to come.  

Before we start, a few things I want to mention:
- **This entire session should take about 45-60 minutes.** I want to be sure not to keep you much longer, so I may occasionally prompt you with the next question or topic.
- **In this session, we want to hear your honest opinions.** We are not testing your ability. We just want to improve these tools to better meet Veteran's needs. I will not be offended by any opinions you express, and I welcome your feedback.
- **If for any reason and at any time you want to stop the session, please let me know.**
- **Are you comfortable if I record my screen and audio as we talk today?** We use the recordings to confirm that we have captured your opinions accurately. The recordings are destroyed after we complete analysis, and none of your comments will be attributed to you directly.
- If yes: **Once I start recording, I am going to confirm that you are ok with me recording this session once more.**

*Start recording.*
- **I have started recording.** I'd like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record my screen and the audio as we talk today?

## Warm-up Questions (Optional) - 5 minutes
- Do you use the VA for healthcare?
  - yes
- Do you use Community Care?
  - sometimes, if the VA can't get me in within 30 days, then they offer me community care
- How do you typically communicate with your doctor?
  -  during covid it's telehealth, otherwise I just call, usually once a month
- How often do you go to VA.gov? What for?
  - not too often, maybe once every two to three months, mainly to see appointments and see if there's any new information I need to know
  - I go for other information for womens at VA group on facebook, go to VA for covid information and art information
- How often do you use MyHealtheVet? What for?
  - not very often, I have it but don't use it often
  - haven't gone to either site in a while, but I think it's MHV most

### First Task: Would you be interested in receiving the COVID-19 vaccine? 5-10 min
- Are you interested in receiving the COVID-19 vaccine?
  - If my doctor says yes then I will
  - I want to see how it really works
  - I'm immune conpromised and in stage three kidney failure
- Why?
- Why not?
- What information would you need to decide?
- _For those who are interested_ How would you express your interest, say, to your doctor or the VA?
  - I want to make sure it won't damage my kidneys further, that's a big one
  - otherwise if it works, then sure
- What are your expectations after expressing interest?
  - would probably be put on a list in order of health needs, and might have to wait a bit, could be a month or could be a week, depends how many Veterans are on the list and how many are ahead of me
- Where would you go to get the vaccine? Why there?
   - "I would [get the vaccine at] the VA, because I trust them and they take good care of me". 

**Things to watch for:**
- Does the participant understand their options?
- Capture where the reluctance to receiving vaccine and why.
- Is the participant interested in additional information? (For the vaccine and for how to navigate expressing their interest)
- Are there concerns that can be addressed with proper communications?

### Second Task: How would you like to you like to receive informative updates on vaccine status? 5-10 min
- How soon do you expect you'll be able to get the vaccine? 
   - probably 2-3 months from here, the healthcare workers need it first, and teachers, so I expect to wait a while
  - How will you know when you're able to get the vaccine?
    - I think my doctor will let me know, it could be an email, a letter, a text, any one of those is good
- _If interested in receiving the vaccine_ How would you like to learn when the vaccine is available?
  - What is your preferred method?
    - text, it's fast, it gives me all the information, and it gives me an option to say yes or no in response to the text
    - VA or doctor would send text
  - How often would you like to get updates on whether the vaccine is available yet or not?
  - maybe twice a month, i don't want to overwhelm the system
  
  
**Things to watch for:**
- Does the participant seem frustrated with how they have been receiving updates to-date? From VA? Generally?
- Is the participant aware of the prioritization guidelines from CDC and how vaccine will be distributed?
- Is the participant aware of how the prioritization guidelines may impact when they may receive vaccine?  
- What information, if any, would be helpful to the participant?

### Third Task: How would you like to receive general information about the COVID-19 vaccine? 5-10 min
- Where do you typically go to get information about covid-19 vaccines? Why that source?
  - usually the news, because it's always on the news
  - I don't quite trust the news media with everything that's gone on
- What information would be important to you to know about the vaccine? Where would you want to get that info?
  - is it live or is it a dead strain? how are immune compromised people doing on it? I have neuropathies, osteomyelitis, fibromyalgia, would that make those conditions worse or not?
  - My doctor 
- How do you decide what information to trust?
  - "I trust the VA." , when I came back, the (location) VA was the worst ever. Came to (location), they were really good, the doctor found conditions I didn't even know about and they worked with me to treat those. So the VA, I trust them. 
  - My daughter and son in law, her immune system is gone, she had cancer treatment, so I'd want to know if I got the vaccine there's no way for her to get covid. Same with my mother, I would ask my doctor to get those concerns addressed. 

**Things to watch for:**
- Does the participant express an information gap? Is there interest in receiving additional information from VA?
- Is there a cultural gap in current communications effort?
- Is there any trust concerns with the current information they are receiving?
- Is there any frustration from the Participant on where to find trusted information? 


## Stay Informed Website 20-30 mins

Ok, now I'd like to have you look at a potential solution and get your feedback. I'm going to share a link in the chat. What I'd like to do is have you open that on your computer's internet browser and share your screen so we can follow along with what you're seeing. I'd like you to think out loud as you look at this prototype together. I want to point out that since this is a prototype, not everything will work, so in that case, please tell me what you expect would happen. Remember, there are no right or wrong answers, and your feedback will help us build better tools for Veterans. 
**Share link** [Live site](https://www.va.gov/health-care/covid-19-vaccine/stay-informed)

**Note: Participant was on an iPad, so moderator screen-shared and had participant verbalize where to go on the site. For that reason, we didn't complete a form and did not look at confirmation page**

### Main Mini Hub page
- What are you seeing here?
  - Covid 19 vaccines at VA, I see this is the VA.gov site, that looks good
- What stands out to you?
- (stay informed call out) What is this telling you?
  - "Oh, you can sign up! Awesome. I like that. That tells me that when I sign up, I'll get information on when the vaccine is available, and that will help them to prepare to get more vaccines"
  - "it says you don't sign up to get a vaccine but I'd sign up to stay informed"
  - What would you be signing up for?
- Who is this site for?
  - For Veterans, to keep us infomred and updated on what is going on

### On this page links
- Let's say you wanted to find out when you might be able to get the vaccine, how would you do that?
  - basic information, who will get it first
- How would you find out more information about the vaccine?
  -  I'd click on basic information link
  - it tells you where they'll offer the vaccine, that it's free, the eligibility
  - "they tell who who's going to get it first. It's very succint, tells you what you need to know." I'm good with that
  - safety section, "It says they'll closely monitor everyone for reactions and side effects, that's good. I don't think regular doctors would be able to do that out in the public. There's a lot more civilians out there than Veterans. I just don't think they can monitor as well as the VA can. And they share info with CDC, they're upfront about that."
  - they give you demographics, but won't share names, addresses, I like that. We're already monitored by the gov, I don't want them to know where I live and know my name. I don't trust the new President, and don't want them to know more information about me than I have to provide.
   - want to click on "can I get covid" from vaccine, "that's good to know"
   - will I get to choose which vaccine I use? Pfiser, etc. [reads answer], no problem
   - how long will vaccine protect me? Ok, I understand we would still need to wear masks, that's not an issue
- What information is missing here?
  - How far apart the vaccines are, that's not listed. How you get the two shots, I think it's a month apart, but some people might not know that

### Sign up
- Let's say you wanted to sign up to get updates on when a vaccine was available, how would you do that?
  - come to this website
  - I'd think I'd have to ask my doctor? (to sign up for vaccine)
  - I don't think it says where to sign up for it, if it did I missed it
  - that's one thing I'd want, how to sign up to get a vaccine
  - to get updates, I'd click on sign up to get informed
- _auth vs non-auth flow_ What are you seeing here?
  - I would sign in so they knew I wanted it and they could keep me informed, they need to know who is interested.
  - I think the other button doesn't tell them you're interested in getting the vaccine, I'm assuming sign in actually tells them your name and who to contact when the vaccine is avaiable
    - signin - different ways to sign into VA.gov
    - I'd chose sign in with MHV if I can remember my password
    - I'd use MHV since it has all my other health charts
    - haven't used the other sign in options
  - Which option would you choose? Why?

### Communication sign up form
- What do you think this page is for?
  - It looks like when you signin for an appointment
- What do you think of the information you're asked to fill out here?
  - _probe on zipcode_
    - I think that shows where the radius of the Veterans that would be going to a VA, I'm ok with that
  - _probe on interest level radio buttons_
    - interest level is good, I'm not sure yet if I'm interested so I'd click "I'm not sure"
    - rest of the info looks normal
    - "I like that they are matching records with DOB, they can look at them so they can see that I have xyz conditions, so it's safe for me"
    - email and phone is ok, if they have questions they can call you
- What would you expect to happen once you fill out this form?
  - I would expect to get updates
  - as vaccine becomes more accesible, maybe a questionnaire would come out and say do you want to get it? And then you can talk to your doctor to see if you're at risk or not and make a decision
   - I check the list you can go to, I forget the site, and I was 250 million down the list

### Confirmation/review page
- What are you seeing on this page?
- Let's say you change your mind about your interest in getting the vaccine, say after 6 months, what would you do?
  - I would go to the website and go into the main page and see if there's a way to update it there
  - I don't see a place where you can go in and update it, though
  - I guess i'd talk to my doctor to update

### Post-Task Interview - 5 minutes
- What are you thoughts on what you looked at today?
  - I think it's pretty informative
  - I think it looks like it could be really good
- Is there anything we didn't ask you that would be important to know?
  - no
- Do you have any questions about what you saw today?
  - I don't, because I probably kept up on it [coronavirus]. If I didn't know anything I might, but I try to keep updated, beacuse it's not going to go away any time soon. And for all the people who refuse to follow guidelines, it's going ot be around for a while, so I think it's good to keep updated. And the VA does take care of use really well. 
- Any questions for me?

### Thank-You and Closing - 5 minutes
Before we go, I just want to mention that what you saw today is something that the VA is considering building to help Veterans like yourself get more information about when a vaccine might be available, but it's not a way to sign up or reserve a spot to get a vaccine. The VA will be following CDC guidelines on how to roll out the vaccine. We really appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us today. Your feedback is helpful to us as we continue to work on solutions to support Veterans’ needs. 


Thanks! Lastly, do you know any other Veterans, caregivers, or service members who might be willing to participate in a future user research session? 

**If Yes:** Thank you! I'll have our team send you an email with a little blurb that you can pass along.
Great, well thank you so much again, and enjoy the rest of your day!


