# Conversation Guide Template for Moderated Research

## Moderator logistics

Use #feedback-backchannel *in Slack for real-time feedback from observers.*

*Before the session, send out the observer instructions to your observers (Slackbot will do this for you if you type "observer instructions" into #feedback-backchannel).
In the Attendees section, make sure everyone except the participant is on mute
In the Audio section, click the drop-down arrow and make sure "Play Entry/Exit Chimes" is unchecked
Check your [screensharing setup]
When the participant is ready, begin the session with the following intro*

## Project-specific setup
 - Have live site link ready to share with participant [Live site](https://www.va.gov/health-care/covid-19-vaccine/)

 
## Intro - 5 minutes

Thanks for joining us today! My name is Lauryl Zenobi and I also have some colleagues on the line observing and taking notes. Today we're going to talk about your thoughts on the COVID-19 vaccine and how you would like to receive information and updates on the vaccine in the months to come.  

Before we start, a few things I want to mention:
- **This entire session should take about 45-60 minutes.** I want to be sure not to keep you much longer, so I may occasionally prompt you with the next question or topic.
- **In this session, we want to hear your honest opinions.** We are not testing your ability. We just want to improve these tools to better meet Veteran's needs. I will not be offended by any opinions you express, and I welcome your feedback.
- **If for any reason and at any time you want to stop the session, please let me know.**
- **Are you comfortable if I record my screen and audio as we talk today?** We use the recordings to confirm that we have captured your opinions accurately. The recordings are destroyed after we complete analysis, and none of your comments will be attributed to you directly.
- If yes: **Once I start recording, I am going to confirm that you are ok with me recording this session once more.**

*Start recording.*
- **I have started recording.** I'd like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record my screen and the audio as we talk today?

## Warm-up Questions (Optional) - 5 minutes
- Do you use the VA for healthcare?
  - I do use
- Do you use Community Care?
  - I do
  - for me, if there's something I can't get at the VA, and I can't get Comm Care, I'll use my own "comm care"
  - eg, VA doesn't have endocrinologist, it's hard to get an appt, and the VA doesn't carry, so I use my own health insurance (I'm retired) to go outside 
- How do you typically communicate with your doctor?
  - usually most care is at the VA, I talk to them through secure messaging
- How often do you go to VA.gov? What for?
- How often do you use MyHealtheVet? What for?
  - depends on what my health is doing
  - using the VA is usually my first choice
  - If health conditions are acting up, I'll call the VA if it's not an emergency
  - right now things are acting up so I message more
  - on average, maybe twice a month
  

### First Task: Would you be interested in receiving the COVID-19 vaccine? 5-10 min
- Are you interested in receiving the COVID-19 vaccine?
  - no
- Why?
- Why not?
  - "Well, I'm a 60s child. I grow up learning about Tuskegee airmen. I also knew about the Polio vaccine, I'm just not convinced it's quite ready. I also heard people with severe allergies shouldn't take it"
   - I heard on the news that people with severe allergies shouldn't take it either
- What information would you need to decide?
  - I can't say specifically, but I think that it's been rushed, and because the current President. If it had been earlier, or later, but right now it's being pushed so this President can have a legacy. I'm no politician, but I feel like, we have childhood cancer and all these illnesses that have been around for years, and years of research, and this isn't rushed
  - "I would tell folks that do what feels right for them as an individual. What works for them might not work for someone else. Do your own research. Do whatever you feel is right for you as an individual and your family". 
  - do your own research. I'm not a scientist, I'm not a politician, do whatever you feel is right for you as an individual and your family
- _For those who are interested_ How would you express your interest, say, to your doctor or the VA?
- What are your expectations after expressing interest?
- Where would you go to get the vaccine? Why there?

**Things to watch for:**
- Does the participant understand their options?
- Capture where the reluctance to receiving vaccine and why.
- Is the participant interested in additional information? (For the vaccine and for how to navigate expressing their interest)
- Are there concerns that can be addressed with proper communications?

### Second Task: How would you like to you like to receive informative updates on vaccine status? 5-10 min
- How soon do you expect you'll be able to get the vaccine? 
  - How will you know when you're able to get the vaccine?
- _If interested in receiving the vaccine_ How would you like to learn when the vaccine is available?
  - What is your preferred method?
  - How often would you like to get updates on whether the vaccine is available yet or not?

**Things to watch for:**
- Does the participant seem frustrated with how they have been receiving updates to-date? From VA? Generally?
- Is the participant aware of the prioritization guidelines from CDC and how vaccine will be distributed?
- Is the participant aware of how the prioritization guidelines may impact when they may receive vaccine?  
- What information, if any, would be helpful to the participant?

### Third Task: How would you like to receive general information about the COVID-19 vaccine? 5-10 min
- Where do you typically go to get information about covid-19 vaccines? Why that source?
  - The VA does send emails, and AARP sends out emails, and I listen to the news, read stuff online, I talk to people that are smarter than me. 
  - "Despite how I feel about it, I think it's wise to be informed. Even if I feel like the vaccine may not be for me, but it may help others. If I can help others, give them information, so they can make their own information."
  - I know a lot of people just talk to their neighbors, their mom. Those aren't sources. I want to find sources that are more reputable. 
- What information would be important to you to know about the vaccine? Where would you want to get that info?
  - I want to know side effects, and now that they've started giving the vaccine, I'd really like to know what the first thing that people feel when they get the vaccine. 
  - what does the injection feel like? Does it bruise, does it leave a knot, scar, etc
  - for long term effects, how do all people and people with certain conditions react to it? Eg diabetes, fribomyalgia
  - I would try to find things online. I haven't seen anything to say how it affects those people. It's still relatively early, so I'm still learning, everytime I hear something new I go to the internet or use online library. 
- How do you decide what information to trust?
  - "When I read stuff, hear stuff, a lot of it is experience, like the yellow fever shot, I knew what to expect because other soldiers had gotten it."
  - where is the info coming from, who is giving the information? "The source is just as important as the information itself"

**Things to watch for:**
- Does the participant express an information gap? Is there interest in receiving additional information from VA?
- Is there a cultural gap in current communications effort?
- Is there any trust concerns with the current information they are receiving?
- Is there any frustration from the Participant on where to find trusted information? 


## Stay Informed Website 20-30 mins

Ok, now I'd like to have you look at a potential solution and get your feedback. I'm going to share a link in the chat. What I'd like to do is have you open that on your computer's internet browser and share your screen so we can follow along with what you're seeing. I'd like you to think out loud as you look at this prototype together. I want to point out that since this is a prototype, not everything will work, so in that case, please tell me what you expect would happen. Remember, there are no right or wrong answers, and your feedback will help us build better tools for Veterans. 
**Share link** [Live site](https://www.va.gov/health-care/covid-19-vaccine)

**Note, used a phone and iPad with moderator doing screenshare**

### Main Mini Hub page
- What are you seeing here?
  - I see a VA website about covid vaccines at the VA
  - this is the VA's covid info site and they'll be
  - this looks like MHV, like where I go to refill Rx, use secure messaging
  - I see "get benefits", so that makes me thingk about VA health benefits
  - (scrolls down) Ah I see that htis is the VA and this is like the one source, and you can login and get to other things
- What stands out to you?
  - authorization process, Il like that that's the top FAQ, because to me that's one of the most important things, and cost, and who they will give it to first
- (stay informed call out) What is this telling you?
  - A lot VA pages have this, you can put in your email and they'll send you messages about it
  - but I'm already in the loop, I already receive the VA notifications, so this looks like just signing up to get those notifications. I already get the covid emails from the VA. I think I get them two or three a week
  - What would you be signing up for?
   - VA covid emails, notification. 
- Who is this site for?
  - Veterans and their family  members or caregivers

### On this page links
- Let's say you wanted to find out when you might be able to get the vaccine, how would you do that?
  - "who will get covid vaccine first" I want to see what they have to say basically
  - the first group will be VA nursing home residents and staff
  - talks about who's at risk...
  - "If i want the vaccine I can contact VA or send a secure message to my doctor"
  - Not all VA clinics will have it right away, but eventually will have free vaccines for those that like it
  - I see a safety warning letting everyone know the vaccine is safe and being monitored and tracked, as they do with shingles and flu
  - disclaimer on what they do with your information
  - "this is the kind of information I'm looking for online - the authorization process, can you get covid, can you get the flu shot with it, these are things I want to know."
  - "I like that they have authorization at the top. To me the authorization process is the most important thing"
  - At the bottom, this is the kind of info I want to find online when doing research, like auth process, benefits to me or my family, what kind of vaccine it is (live or not)
- How would you find out more information about the vaccine?
  - I would go to Pfizer (the vaccine company), and go to that company website to see what htey're saying about it. And look for folks who have gotten it, to see how they feel. Or reach out to study participants. Looking at this, I still don't see people excluded from this. It would be very important for people to know. Who should not take it? Disclosures for those with particular illnesses, or conflicts or interferences with other illnesses or diseases. 
- What information is missing here?
  - "The only thing that I can think of is a start date, that's the only thing that I don't see. When will they start and a definitive list of VA facilities that will have it right away
  - "If I wanted to get it, and they weren't doing it near me, where could I go to get it?" If I wanted to tell others that they do have it in their town, then I could tell them. That's how Veterans trasmit info to each other.
  - 

### Sign up
- Let's say you wanted to sign up to get updates on when a vaccine was available, how would you do that?
  - According to this I can go thru MHV or contact my primary care doctor
   - my doctor would then contact me and let me know when and if I qualify
   - it doesn't say here if any of my current conditions would prohibit me from getting it, my doctor would look at my records to let me know
- _auth vs non-auth flow_ What are you seeing here?
  - they want you to sign in
  - you could use a couple of different logins here
  - looks like oyu can continue without logging in
  - non-auth: I'd click that because I don't always remember my password. If I can continue with just an email that you could match in your database, I'm fine with that. 
  - Which option would you choose? Why?

### Communication sign up form
- What do you think this page is for?
  - This looks like when you fill your info in, it'll match up with your VA database, and they can associate it with you
- What do you think of the information you're asked to fill out here?
  - Basic info you would fill out on any VA or fed, military website
  - _probe on zipcode_
  - _probe on interest level radio buttons_
    - This is what I'd expect. 
    - they always give prefer not answer as an option
    - I like they aren't limiting you to yes and no answers
    - I'm not sure why it matters if I'd be in the same zip code for the next 6-12 months
     - zip code, maybe to match you, they may pull that out of the database to match me
     - gives another option to find you
- What would you expect to happen once you fill out this form?
  - depending on how fast the process is moving, and uploading it to the db, I'd expect to start getting emails, within the next month or so, with info about the covid vaccine

### Confirmation/review page
- What are you seeing on this page?
- Let's say you change your mind about your interest in getting the vaccine, say after 6 months, what would you do?
  - I would contact my primary care manager, let her know that I am considering it and to make sure I'm a candidate for it, and go from there.
  - to update notifications, log in to ebenefits to update that

### Post-Task Interview - 5 minutes
- What are you thoughts on what you looked at today?
  - I think that it's good and timely
  - I like that it's not taking the VA weeks to get the information out to Veterans, since the VA is the first place we go
  - It has a lot of good information, first target audiences, option to opt in for more information and follow along, and it answers your questions, and offers reassurance that they are monitoring and following FDA and CDC guidelines and following along with who they give vaccines to. 
  - Important because the vaccine came out fast, and you just give it to people and aren't sure how it's interacting with their bodies, meds, etc, you have nothing, there's no research pool
  - knowing it's tracked and monitored, means that if they can track side effects, and see patterns over time, they'll be able to be more certain about side effects, learn more about the vaccine itself. 
- Is there anything we didn't ask you that would be important to know?
  - only thing I'd be concerned about for me, what's important for me, is who, with preexisting conditions, and who should be excluded, current meds that will countereffect the vaccines. 
- Do you have any questions about what you saw today?
  - 
- Any questions for me?

### Thank-You and Closing - 5 minutes
Before we go, I just want to mention that what you saw today is something that the VA is considering building to help Veterans like yourself get more information about when a vaccine might be available, but it's not a way to sign up or reserve a spot to get a vaccine. The VA will be following CDC guidelines on how to roll out the vaccine. We really appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us today. Your feedback is helpful to us as we continue to work on solutions to support Veterans’ needs. 


Thanks! Lastly, do you know any other Veterans, caregivers, or service members who might be willing to participate in a future user research session? 

**If Yes:** Thank you! I'll have our team send you an email with a little blurb that you can pass along.
Great, well thank you so much again, and enjoy the rest of your day!


