# Conversation Guide Template for Moderated Research

## Moderator logistics

Use #feedback-backchannel *in Slack for real-time feedback from observers.*

*Before the session, send out the observer instructions to your observers (Slackbot will do this for you if you type "observer instructions" into #feedback-backchannel).
In the Attendees section, make sure everyone except the participant is on mute
In the Audio section, click the drop-down arrow and make sure "Play Entry/Exit Chimes" is unchecked
Check your [screensharing setup]
When the participant is ready, begin the session with the following intro*

## Project-specific setup
 - Have live site link ready to share with participant [Live site](https://www.va.gov/health-care/covid-19-vaccine/stay-informed)

 
## Intro - 5 minutes

Thanks for joining us today! My name is Lauryl Zenobi and I also have some colleagues on the line observing and taking notes. Today we're going to talk about your thoughts on the COVID-19 vaccine and how you would like to receive information and updates on the vaccine in the months to come.  

Before we start, a few things I want to mention:
- **This entire session should take about 45-60 minutes.** I want to be sure not to keep you much longer, so I may occasionally prompt you with the next question or topic.
- **In this session, we want to hear your honest opinions.** We are not testing your ability. We just want to improve these tools to better meet Veteran's needs. I will not be offended by any opinions you express, and I welcome your feedback.
- **If for any reason and at any time you want to stop the session, please let me know.**
- **Are you comfortable if I record my screen and audio as we talk today?** We use the recordings to confirm that we have captured your opinions accurately. The recordings are destroyed after we complete analysis, and none of your comments will be attributed to you directly.
- If yes: **Once I start recording, I am going to confirm that you are ok with me recording this session once more.**

*Start recording.*
- **I have started recording.** I'd like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record my screen and the audio as we talk today?

## Warm-up Questions (Optional) - 5 minutes
- Do you use the VA for healthcare?
  - Yes
- Do you use Community Care?
  - Sometimes
  - depends on if it's service connected or something I can run to urgent care clinic
  - I live about 45 minutes from the VA
  - sometimes I'll call the VA and if there's nothing aviable, then I'm more likely to go to urgent care
- How do you typically communicate with your doctor?
  - secure messaging, if urgent I'll call
- How often do you go to VA.gov? What for?
  - use that more, but use that for work, since I work for homeless Veterans, use it for them but myself, not often. Use daily for work, once a few months if that for self.
- How often do you use MyHealtheVet? What for?
  - at least once a month, order my Rx, check appointments, email doctor

### First Task: Would you be interested in receiving the COVID-19 vaccine? 5-10 min
- Are you interested in receiving the COVID-19 vaccine?
  - Yes
- Why?
  - I have lung concerns and due to demographics and work environment, yes I want that
- Why not?
- What information would you need to decide?
  - common sense, science
- _For those who are interested_ How would you express your interest, say, to your doctor or the VA?
  - secure messaging, send email, when are they available, if work doesn't offer them before. If VA first, I'll get it there
- What are your expectations after expressing interest?
  - I would expect a response within 24 hours saying we don't have htem yet, but will then
  - and then eventually a response of hey it's ready pick a time
  - otherwise would expect something on VA.gov
    - would think once it's available there'd be a banner on the site to check your facility to get scheduled
  - if something to schedule I'd want it thru secure messaging, if a drive in sort of thing, then on va.gov
- Where would you go to get the vaccine? Why there?
  - depends

**Things to watch for:**
- Does the participant understand their options?
- Capture where the reluctance to receiving vaccine and why.
- Is the participant interested in additional information? (For the vaccine and for how to navigate expressing their interest)
- Are there concerns that can be addressed with proper communications?

### Second Task: How would you like to you like to receive informative updates on vaccine status? 5-10 min
- How soon do you expect you'll be able to get the vaccine? 
   - hopeful within the next month or two
  - How will you know when you're able to get the vaccine?
    - thru email blast at work
    - at VA, some sort of communication. I'd hope not snail mail, but I could see you might need to. Signs, news, radio, VA.gov website, I'd also expect a mass email over secure messaging
- _If interested in receiving the vaccine_ How would you like to learn when the vaccine is available?
  - What is your preferred method?
    - secure messaging
  - How often would you like to get updates on whether the vaccine is available yet or not?
    - every few weeks at least

**Things to watch for:**
- Does the participant seem frustrated with how they have been receiving updates to-date? From VA? Generally?
- Is the participant aware of the prioritization guidelines from CDC and how vaccine will be distributed?
- Is the participant aware of how the prioritization guidelines may impact when they may receive vaccine?  
- What information, if any, would be helpful to the participant?

### Third Task: How would you like to receive general information about the COVID-19 vaccine? 5-10 min
- Where do you typically go to get information about covid-19 vaccines? Why that source?
  - I go to NHS website, CDC website, state covid website, lancet site
  - more accurate, less political, more science based
- What information would be important to you to know about the vaccine? Where would you want to get that info?
  - which vaccine I'm getting, "I've seen that Pfizer has had anaphalysis issues for those with severe allergies, so I definitely want to know which one I'm getting. I want to know what side effects are."
  - I would want to know when followup shot is, side effects (common and rare), data sheet to know
  - would want that information when getting the shot
- How do you decide what information to trust?
  - if a politically based site tend to be skeptical, try to find medicine based or less political sites, going to manufacturers website

**Things to watch for:**
- Does the participant express an information gap? Is there interest in receiving additional information from VA?
- Is there a cultural gap in current communications effort?
- Is there any trust concerns with the current information they are receiving?
- Is there any frustration from the Participant on where to find trusted information? 


## Stay Informed Website 20-30 mins

Ok, now I'd like to have you look at a potential solution and get your feedback. I'm going to share a link in the chat. What I'd like to do is have you open that on your computer's internet browser and share your screen so we can follow along with what you're seeing. I'd like you to think out loud as you look at this prototype together. I want to point out that since this is a prototype, not everything will work, so in that case, please tell me what you expect would happen. Remember, there are no right or wrong answers, and your feedback will help us build better tools for Veterans. 
**Share link** [Live site](https://www.va.gov/health-care/covid-19-vaccine/stay-informed)

**note, moderator screenshared site as participant was on mobile**

### Main Mini Hub page
- What are you seeing here?
- What stands out to you?
  - sign up to stay informed, stands out because of box, color
  - don't have to search for where to sign up, sometimes you have to search on va websites
- (stay informed call out) What is this telling you?
  - you don't need to sign up to get a vacccine, that's good, cause some people think you have to
  - What would you be signing up for?
    - assume I would give them email info
- Who is this site for?

### On this page links
- Let's say you wanted to find out when you might be able to get the vaccine, how would you do that?
  - click on who will get vaccine link
  - I like that it's clear
- How would you find out more information about the vaccine?
- What information is missing here?
  - link to VA medical centers with vaccines - which ones will have it? when will we get it at that facility, allows people to judge when it will be at a certain facility
  - would tell me if my area is lower on a list or has the right facilities to store the vaccine
   - FAQ: 
     - looking at questions, I really like the questions, these seem like the ones most people would ask
     - flu and covid vaccine - can you receive them, that's a good question. I'd find out by clicking on the link
     - vaccine protection length, what veterans need to know. "Ok, I like that they have apply for VA helathcare on every page. I work with Veterans who don't know that they can get VA healthcare, I like that they are promoting that"

### Sign up
- Let's say you wanted to sign up to get updates on when a vaccine was available, how would you do that?
  - I assume if you're signing in that would come through secure messaging, assume updates would come to secure messaging

- _auth vs non-auth flow_ What are you seeing here?
    - MHV if has password, would click sign in 
    -non-auth is probably for those not set up or not currently accessing VA health care
    - generally at the VA if you choose non-auth, they help you get signed up
  - Which option would you choose? Why?

### Communication sign up form
- What do you think this page is for?
  - common sense stuff
  - phone required, but more Veterans than I would expect do not have email, as a required field could be a stopping point for them
  - of the 60 homeless Veterans, only 20 or so I've helped set up emails
- What do you think of the information you're asked to fill out here?
  - _probe on zipcode_
    - that will tag it to which VA, I'd assume there's an automatic counting that the VA could use to figure out how many min doses they need on hand
    - 6-12 months if you're not in the zip code in April will you still be there? That's good to know
  - _probe on interest level radio buttons_
    - Veterans are very fact based, so having "i haven't decided yet" are good answers
    - might put that thought in their head
- What would you expect to happen once you fill out this form?
  - would expect an SMS or an email saying thank you for filling out the form
  - may be a link to sign up for VA healthcare if you aren't already signed up

### Confirmation/review page
- What are you seeing on this page?
- Let's say you change your mind about your interest in getting the vaccine, say after 6 months, what would you do?
  - probably just ignore anything I got sent
  - "Most Veterans see their primary care once a year or so, so I'd expect my doctor to ask me if I want it at an annual appointment like when they ask you about flu shots"

### Post-Task Interview - 5 minutes
- What are you thoughts on what you looked at today?
  - it would be nice if priority groups were broken down in the messaging so I know where  I am on the list, or is it first come first serve?
  - "[This is ] suprisingly straightforward, often using VA websites are difficult, so I'm impressed when I find something that is"
  - "I really like it, it answers questions, provides info in an easy to understand straightforward manner. It's direct, not confusing." Doesn't say say over here and over here. The more you have to click through to read stuff the more frustrating it can get. 
- Is there anything we didn't ask you that would be important to know?
  - no not really
- Do you have any questions about what you saw today?
  - Are they going to publish the results of this or is this internal?
  - sometimes VA emails will reference other studies that are going on, so this is one I'd be interested to see if other Veterans are interested in getting vaccines or not. That would help me understand the population I work with too, extrapolate interest. 
   - "I've already decided I'm getting it so that wouldn't convince me personally, but [having data on interest level that's published] could help convince other folks. Say 55% of Veterans want it, how can that data help others make better choices?". 
- Any questions for me?

### Thank-You and Closing - 5 minutes
Before we go, I just want to mention that what you saw today is something that the VA is considering building to help Veterans like yourself get more information about when a vaccine might be available, but it's not a way to sign up or reserve a spot to get a vaccine. The VA will be following CDC guidelines on how to roll out the vaccine. We really appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us today. Your feedback is helpful to us as we continue to work on solutions to support Veterans’ needs. 


Thanks! Lastly, do you know any other Veterans, caregivers, or service members who might be willing to participate in a future user research session? 

**If Yes:** Thank you! I'll have our team send you an email with a little blurb that you can pass along.
Great, well thank you so much again, and enjoy the rest of your day!


RAW NOTES FROM OBSERVER #1:
- Recording started: confirm w/ user if ok to record.
- Q1: Use VA. for healthcare
- Q2: use communicate care:
    - Sometimes 
    - Depends and live 45 min from VA
    - If nothing avail and not appt, more likely to go to urgent care
- Q3: How comm w/ dr.
    - Secure messaging 
    - If urgent, call
- Q4: How often use Myhealthevet?
    - Once per month
    - Order Rx
    - Check appts
    - Email drs too
- Q5: VA.gov website how often
    - Don’t use it for herself
        - Once every couple of months
    - But yes for work since work w/homelsss veterans
- Q6: interesteed in vaccine?
    - Yes, damaged young, have asthma, and work w/ homeless people
- Q7: what used to inform decision
    - Common sense 
    - Science
- Q8: express interest for vaccine?
    - Secure message to dr
    - If her company does not get them first
- Q9: What do you expect would happen?
    - Expect response w/in 24 hours when can get vaccine or indicate when to be informed along with information on where to go for where to go
    - More comfortable: secure message
    - Would like it similar on VA.gov and drive through like testing
    - For scheduling want secure message
    - Expect a banner at the website and a link to you VA site … and go to the following location.  It is a campus in Salt Lake and not hear the hospital and follow direction on how to get there.  
- Q10: how soon expect to get vaccine?
    - W/in next month or 2
- Q11: How will know?
    - If work get email blast
    - Through VA expect some kind of notification and hope don’t use mail.
        - Definitely on website, news, radio, and send out a mass email over secure messaging
        - Most preferred is secure messaging
- Q12: How often would like to receive updates?
    - Every couple of weeks at least
- Q13: where go to to get info on vaccines:
    - CDC, NHS, Lancet, State website
    - Why those sources:
        - Less political, more science based, and more accurate
- Q14: what info is important to know?
    - Which vaccine I can get
    - When the follow up
    - What to expect complications and side effects … data sheet and what to be worried about
- Q15: where get that info from?
    - Who ever giving shot give me paper
- Q16: What information is trusted?
    - Political based site skeptical
    - Look up medicine based sites
    - Going to manufacturers website

Next Session:
- Showing website
- She likes the website and the call out that you don’t need to sign up to get vaccine
- Click on who will get vaccine first:
    - Like that it is very clear
    - Go Back
- Basic info to get vaccine at VA
    - Hyper link about which facilities will receive vaccine — would like to know which ones?  Is it sooner than later?  For their facility.  
- Questions you might have
    - Really like the questions
    - Most questions that will ask
    - Really liked the flu and covid vaccine at teh same time
        - Clicked into it and said it made sense
    - How long will the vaccine will protect me?
    - Like that apply for VA healthcare on every page. - need to better promote this.
- Sign up to stay informed stands out and like it … 
    - Nice and obvious
- Click on teh button
    - If I sign in expect that it will come through via secure messaging.  Sign into my healthevet
        - What would come through:
            - Progress and based on where you are and what priority group updates
                - Provide more info on priority groups and how they determine who gets it when 
                    - By age group
                    - Health conditions
                    - Or free for all
            - Continue w/o signing in
                - For those who don’t have VA healthcare
                - Reviewing the forms:
                    - Many veterans don’t have email and could be a stopping point for the Email Address as Required
                        - Of the 60 veterans, 20 needed help signing up for email
                        - People will just quit for the “required” field.
                        - Like zip code tag to close VA and tagging to help VA facilities to distribute vaccine.
                    - Last question:  
                        - Like it … puts thought in their head.  
    - Expect a message on phone or email confirming filling out form and will use this to communicate about vaccine. And provide link to get VA healthcare if don’t get VA healthcare now.  
    - 6 months change interstate’s in vaccine, would just ignore what got sent. 
    - Most veterans get seen at least once in Primary care and the primary care can follow up based on record of vaccine. 
    - Anything else would like to look at:
        - Surprisingly straight forward
        - Sometimes working through VA websites can be difficult and are not well laid out
    - Couple of more questions:
        - Overall thoughts:
            - I really like it and it answers questions, and answers are easy to understand and direct and not confusing.The more you need to click through things the more frustrating it can get.  
        - Anything I asked that is important:
            - No not really
        - Any questions for Lauryl?
            - Are they going to publish the results or is this just internal?
                - What would you want in this?
                    - When I get emails from the VA and can click through the studies and get a sense of how the rest of the veteran community feel
                    - I have already decided to get the vaccine … I have made a decision … 
                        - But would help her to convince other veterans to get hesitant veterans to make better choices.  
- Thank you for your time and for her service.
