# Conversation Guide Template for Moderated Research

## Moderator logistics

Use #feedback-backchannel *in Slack for real-time feedback from observers.*

*Before the session, send out the observer instructions to your observers (Slackbot will do this for you if you type "observer instructions" into #feedback-backchannel).
In the Attendees section, make sure everyone except the participant is on mute
In the Audio section, click the drop-down arrow and make sure "Play Entry/Exit Chimes" is unchecked
Check your [screensharing setup]
When the participant is ready, begin the session with the following intro*

## Project-specific setup
 - Have live site link ready to share with participant [Live site](https://www.va.gov/health-care/covid-19-vaccine)

 
## Intro - 5 minutes

Thanks for joining us today! My name is Lauryl Zenobi and I also have some colleagues on the line observing and taking notes. Today we're going to talk about your thoughts on the COVID-19 vaccine and how you would like to receive information and updates on the vaccine in the months to come.  

Before we start, a few things I want to mention:
- **This entire session should take about 45-60 minutes.** I want to be sure not to keep you much longer, so I may occasionally prompt you with the next question or topic.
- **In this session, we want to hear your honest opinions.** We are not testing your ability. We just want to improve these tools to better meet Veteran's needs. I will not be offended by any opinions you express, and I welcome your feedback.
- **If for any reason and at any time you want to stop the session, please let me know.**
- **Are you comfortable if I record my screen and audio as we talk today?** We use the recordings to confirm that we have captured your opinions accurately. The recordings are destroyed after we complete analysis, and none of your comments will be attributed to you directly.
- If yes: **Once I start recording, I am going to confirm that you are ok with me recording this session once more.**

*Start recording.*
- **I have started recording.** I'd like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record my screen and the audio as we talk today?

## Warm-up Questions (Optional) - 5 minutes
- Do you use the VA for healthcare?
  - For certain healthcare, but not all
- Do you use Community Care?
  - Yeah, I use the VA clinic and I have other doctors that I see occasionally
  - I haven't seen a VA doctor in a long time, so I wonder why I would waste time during a telephone interview with a doctor. 
  - during covid I decided to get doctors outside of the VA
  - I want to see a cardiologist
- How do you typically communicate with your doctor?
  - if VA doctor:
   - the only doctor I've talked to face to face in over a year is my foot doctor
   - I have talked on the phone to a pharmacist a few times
   - I talked to a doctor over a year ago and I understand she's no longer at my clinic, so I think I'll have a phone interview
- How often do you go to VA.gov? What for?
- How often do you use MyHealtheVet? What for?
  - probably one or twice a month
  - go on to check Rx
  - check appointments just in case I missed one on my phone calendar
  - I get lots of email from the VA, I'll scan mosto f it

### First Task: Would you be interested in receiving the COVID-19 vaccine? 5-10 min
- Are you interested in receiving the COVID-19 vaccine?
  - after 6 or 7 months, I don't want to be the first one
- Why?
  - "Like any new vaccine, I have my doubts for a while. Once I see it's working well I'll jump out to get a shot."
- Why not?
- What information would you need to decide?
  - see results, say statistical results
- _For those who are interested_ How would you express your interest, say, to your doctor or the VA?
  - I would ask when and where, and if not available, and interested, I would go to the local hospital or where ever. 
  - I can get a flu shot at a grocery store, and a shingles shot, since the VA wasn't seeing anybody, so I decidede I would get it whenever
- What are your expectations after expressing interest?
  - I would expect to go somewhere to get a shot
- Where would you go to get the vaccine? Why there?
  - probably a local clinic
  - I know the VA says we can go get shots for the flu at a drugstore, eg, so if that's where it's available I go there
  - if available at the VA go there

**Things to watch for:**
- Does the participant understand their options?
- Capture where the reluctance to receiving vaccine and why.
- Is the participant interested in additional information? (For the vaccine and for how to navigate expressing their interest)
- Are there concerns that can be addressed with proper communications?

### Second Task: How would you like to you like to receive informative updates on vaccine status? 5-10 min
- How soon do you expect you'll be able to get the vaccine?
    - probably this coming summer, in the same amount of time (6-7 months)
  - How will you know when you're able to get the vaccine?
    - imagine the VA would send out a weekly or whenever email they would announce it officially there
    - unless you call me direct call
- _If interested in receiving the vaccine_ How would you like to learn when the vaccine is available?
  - What is your preferred method?
  - How often would you like to get updates on whether the vaccine is available yet or not?

**Things to watch for:**
- Does the participant seem frustrated with how they have been receiving updates to-date? From VA? Generally?
- Is the participant aware of the prioritization guidelines from CDC and how vaccine will be distributed?
- Is the participant aware of how the prioritization guidelines may impact when they may receive vaccine?  
- What information, if any, would be helpful to the participant?

### Third Task: How would you like to receive general information about the COVID-19 vaccine? 5-10 min
- Where do you typically go to get information about covid-19 vaccines? Why that source?
  - television, internet sources
  - I read newspaper articles, friends send me articles
- What information would be important to you to know about the vaccine? Where would you want to get that info?
  - that it'll work
  - from a reliable source
- How do you decide what information to trust?

**Things to watch for:**
- Does the participant express an information gap? Is there interest in receiving additional information from VA?
- Is there a cultural gap in current communications effort?
- Is there any trust concerns with the current information they are receiving?
- Is there any frustration from the Participant on where to find trusted information? 


**Note moderator shared screen as participant was on mobile**

## Stay Informed Website 20-30 mins

Ok, now I'd like to have you look at a potential solution and get your feedback. I'm going to share a link in the chat. What I'd like to do is have you open that on your computer's internet browser and share your screen so we can follow along with what you're seeing. I'd like you to think out loud as you look at this prototype together. I want to point out that since this is a prototype, not everything will work, so in that case, please tell me what you expect would happen. Remember, there are no right or wrong answers, and your feedback will help us build better tools for Veterans. 
**Share link** [Live site](https://www.va.gov/health-care/covid-19-vaccine)



### Main Mini Hub page
- What are you seeing here?
  - This is a website I get, it looks familiar
  - covid vaccines at the VA, I've already read an article if not about this one, something similar
- What stands out to you?
  - increased risk, I already know that
  - basic info of getting vaccine at VA, not sure about that. I haven't seen anything that directly pointed in my direction, the things I've seen are that VA has vaccine available for health care providers and folks that need to have it immediately. Which I have no problems with that
- (stay informed call out) What is this telling you?
   - I think I've already signed up?
   - it's pretty clear and straightforward, asking you to sign up and you get certain facts and info
    - I would sign up and want to stay informed
    - I imagine it would be a source htat would reach out to you with useful information in case you want to get the vaccine or stay abreast of CDC or VA medical team inforamtion
  - What would you be signing up for?
    - like a newsletter, what VA thinks is important to this audience, covid, when you can start going back to your clinic
- Who is this site for?
  - I think Veterans

### On this page links
- Let's say you wanted to find out when you might be able to get the vaccine, how would you do that?
  - look for contact information, send someone an email or give a phone call
- How would you find out more information about the vaccine?
- What information is missing here?
  - safety, I haven't noticed anything about that. I've seen so much of this through so many sources, hard to say I got this from VA or not
  - Privacy i dont' care who you tell I got a vaccine
  - FAQ:
    - seen it so many times
    - "My bottom line, does it work on the first ones who get the shot and if so then everyone should go get it"
    - FDA, I know if playing a role, so not worried
    - I understand why I need a vaccine
    - "How do vaccines work, that's over my head and I don't care. I believe that if you're a doctor and you tell me to get one, I believe you"
    - all this looks like valid info, I would scroll thru and see what's interesting and then read the answers
    - I thought about volunteering for research but I have a friend and she worked for the senate, and she told me you don't want to be a test bunny with your health conditions
    - will wait on info from VA or major newspaper to see if this is safe or not, have worked with doctors, etc, so I got all kinds of sources

### Sign up
- Let's say you wanted to sign up to get updates on when a vaccine was available, how would you do that?
- _auth vs non-auth flow_ What are you seeing here?
    - looks like a survey that would want info to help the VA udnerstand interest in getting vaccines, and send updates
    - you sign up for updates, you'd expect feedback that will generate useful information and decision making re coronavirus
  - Which option would you choose? Why?
    - Sign in, do my password and it would facilitate all the info you need, you're signing up when you're signing in
      - auth pop-up, that's exactly what I expected, would use MHV, since that's memorized and what I use every time
      - keep my passwords on my phone
    - wouldn't use non-auth, if I'm interested in signing up I'm going to do it

### Communication sign up form
- What do you think this page is for?
  - kind of an odd, fill out form?
  - it's the page that I hate, I hate having to put my name and email down. I'd rather sign in, that's why I would rather use signin (have things prefilled)
  - if signed in, wouldn't expect to see any of this, would expect to go directly to whatever I'm supposed to sign up for. Might answer a few questions, but not fill out everything here. Once you sign in they know where you are anyways
- What do you think of the information you're asked to fill out here?
   - I don't want to answer questions, I want to read information 
  - _probe on zipcode_
  - _probe on interest level radio buttons_
    - yeah, but might not want to get one when it's first available
- What would you expect to happen once you fill out this form?

### Confirmation/review page
- What are you seeing on this page?
- Let's say you change your mind about your interest in getting the vaccine, say after 6 months, what would you do?

### Post-Task Interview - 5 minutes
- What are you thoughts on what you looked at today?
- Is there anything we didn't ask you that would be important to know?
- Do you have any questions about what you saw today?
- Any questions for me?

### Thank-You and Closing - 5 minutes
Before we go, I just want to mention that what you saw today is something that the VA is considering building to help Veterans like yourself get more information about when a vaccine might be available, but it's not a way to sign up or reserve a spot to get a vaccine. The VA will be following CDC guidelines on how to roll out the vaccine. We really appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us today. Your feedback is helpful to us as we continue to work on solutions to support Veterans’ needs. 


Thanks! Lastly, do you know any other Veterans, caregivers, or service members who might be willing to participate in a future user research session? 

**If Yes:** Thank you! I'll have our team send you an email with a little blurb that you can pass along.
Great, well thank you so much again, and enjoy the rest of your day!


RAW NOTES FROM OBSERVER #1:
Raw Notes from Observer:
- Start the recording … but before, do you have any questions. 
- Only interested in 25-30 min
- Q1: Do you use VA for healthcare?
    - Use VA for certain healthcare but not all healthcare
- Q2: use care in the community
    - Use vA clinic
    - Cardiologist and neurologist
    - Haven’t seen a VA doc in a long time … why waste time to do telephone interview w/ doc and have major health issues .. they cannot hear my heart of telehealth
    - Am concerned and went through many heart tests due to recent chest pains .. I want a heard doc for my heart and not physician assistant
- Q3: How do you typically communicate w/ your doc?
    - VA docs
    - Only doc spoke to face to face is a foot dr.
    - Talked on the phone to a pharmacist a couple of times
    - Talked w/ dr a year ago but she is no longer there and wants to do a phone interview w/ new dr. 
- Q4: How often use Myhealthevet?
    - 1-2x per month
        - Check rx
        - Check appts just in case missed one on the calendar 
        - Stay up to date
        - Read articles that are of interest
        - Get lots of emails from VA
            - Scan it and read only what’s of interest
- Q5: Interested in vaccine?
    - After 5-6 months and don’t want to be the first one
    - Like any new vaccine, have doubts
    - Once see it working well, then will get it
- Q6: What info would be helpful
    - See statistical results
- Q7: how express VA docs for vaccine?
    - Ask when and where
    - Run down to local hospital 
    - Get a flu shot anywhere … got it at the grocery store this year along with a Shingles shot and I was not getting anywhere w/ VA so I got it where I could
- Q8: What are you expectations after express interest?
    - Expect to go to the local clinic 
    - VA told us to go to drug stores like CVS and Walgreens like flu … I think that the same
    - Or go to the VA to get the shot
- Q9: How soon would you expect to get the vaccine?
    - 6-7 months and this coming summer …
    - Plan to do travel this summer and if the vaccine is successful then I can go to Canada w/ my RV w/ tulip festival
- Q10: How would you know when you can get the vaccine?
    - VA would let me know in one of those weekly emails or those sources or if you call me directly
- Q11; WHERE GET info on vaccine?
    - TV and internet
    - Friends share articles  
    - Lots of sources
- Q12: what info is important?
    - That it will work
- Q13: where get info?
    - From a reliable source
 Part II:
- He said the website is familiar and read something recently
- I think I am already signed up
- I know who will get the vaccine first
    - Healthcare workers and those at treatment facilities who are susceptible to the virus
- He said he is signed up for something: thinks it is a newsletter … 
    - What kind of info in newsletter?
        - What VA thinks is important to audience … covid to when you can go back to your clinic
        - Who is the website for … 
            - Veterans
- If you want to find out more about the vaccine?
    - Scroll down, make a phone call or click on a contact us
- Anything else standout:
    - I read some of this before … I am familiar
    - Not sure about getting the vaccine at VA … I have not seen it.  I have seen VA has vaccine available. I am alert and keeping out of large crowds, wearing a mask, and washing my hands.  
    - I have not seen anything on safety .. I would read that.
    - I pay attention to the emails from VA.
    - I don’t care about privacy - I don’t care who they tell. 
    - I have seen the questions in several different places and location … but what I want to know if it works and everyone will get the shot. 
- Questions additional feedback:
    - Curious about the cure one
    - Have confidence that if FDA auth to give vaccine it will be good
    - Believes it will benefit whole country 
    - All looks like valid information
    - I would scan that I find interesting
    - I thought about volunteering for covid vaccine but as a nurse working on capital hill and recommend not to volunteer since he was exposed to agent orange and have heart issues, etc. so I decided not to.
- Question: Where would you find that information based on your needs/risks?
    - Do my research and wait on information from VA and any major newspaper will say something about the situation
    - Watch the news
    - Former doctor colleague 
- Question: asked about the box and clear
    - Sign up and get certain facts and information
    - I would sign up
    - I would want to stay informed
    - This will be a source that will constantly keep me informed of the covid vaccine
- Question: feedback on the page for the sign in
    - Survey to capture interest in vaccine
        - Would expect them to do 
        - Expect provide feedback so help support the decision making about the virus
- Question: if want to sign in
    - I would sign in and do my password and it would take me to where I need to
    - Facilitate all the information you need after click sign in
        - “You are signing up when you sign in”
        - I would not do it w/ the “continue w/o signing in”
- Question: Click Sign in 
    - That is what I would expect
    - I would sign in w/ MyHealtheVet
        - I remembered this and I don’t want to remember all passwords
        - I can’t remember all the trash I make up every time … I have 500 saved passwords on my phone
        - Ask about the page:
            - Reaction: Odd
            - This is the page I hate … I hate repeating entering this info … that’s why I would sign in, then I am where I want to be w/ the information 
            - Q: If signed in, I don’t expect to see any of this … I expect to see where I am guided to.  Still having to scroll down … answer all the questions about all the crap I don’t like.  
            - I don’t want to answer questions, I want to receive information. 
            - Don’t want to see form.  I may have to answer some questions … what difference does that make.  They have your address, phone number and all the above.  
- Question: What do you think about what we looked at?
    - hope it is useful to the VA and hope this information was helpful
    - My time is valuable just like your time.  


