# Conversation Guide for Back-End Tools Team, External Services Integration, June 2020: P2

## Intro - 5 minutes

Thanks for joining us today! My name is Emily and I also have some colleagues on the line observing and taking notes. Today we're going to talk about integrating an app to an external service.

Before we start, a few things I want to mention:

- **This entire session should take about half an hour** I want to be sure not to keep you much longer, so I may occasionally prompt you with the next question or topic.
- **In this session, we want to hear your honest opinions.** We are not testing your ability. We just want to improve these tools to better meet developers’ needs. I will not be offended by any opinions you express, and I welcome your feedback.
- **If for any reason and at any time you want to stop the session, please let me know.** 
- **Are you comfortable if I record the screen and audio as we talk today?** We use the recordings to confirm that we have captured your opinions accurately. The recordings are destroyed after we complete analysis, and none of your comments will be attributed to you directly. 
    - If yes: **Once I start recording, I am going to confirm that you are ok with me recording this session once more.** 
*Start recording.*
- **I have started recording. I'd like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record the screen the audio as we talk today?**

## Introduction

- To start, let’s talk a bit about what application(s) you're working on. Can you tell me about it/them?
  - P2: I'm on the eBenefits team. Something that might be a little bit different than most teams is that we have 2 backend engineers including myself. I see most have one. We are working on a pretty complex project right now where we're trying to automate or digitize the 686 form.
  
- What do they enable Veterans to do?
  - It enables Veterans to add information about their dependents to their benefits and report different things like deaths, divorces. 
  - It gets pretty crazy as you get to the form, the things you have to account for. The Veteran's spousal history, and also the spouse's spousal history. You have to report things like that.
  - You can add children to your benefits.
  - You can report divorce, deaths, you can report all kinds of stuff.
  - We are also doing kind of a side form, it's 674. It allows you to add a child who is over 18 who is attending school to your benefits.
  - You have to account for things like financial information, property they own, all kinds of things. It's crazy.
- Does the 674 also account for if the child has any disabilities, to account for those too?
  - The form itself proper, the paper one does account for that.
  - It'll be like, a child over 18 who isn't independent.
  - But we don't, the external service we integrate with doesn't seem to support that.
  - What will happen is we generate this information, we make like 17 calls and what will happen is something goes wrong and you can change a status and then a human reviews it.
- Which external services do they integrate with?
  - This is all going to BGS.
- What does that stand for?
  - Benefits Gateway... Service?
  - It's funny, I know these granular details but then I don't know BGS [laughter]
  - Benefit Gateway Services.
- Have you worked with that service before?
  - No, this is the first project, the first task for me.

## External services integration

- Describe the process of integrating BGS to an external service. What has that been like from your perspective being on the newer side, ramping up and learning how to work with it?
  - It's been... I'm working on sorting that out in my head.
  - I kinda do little retros for myself every day. Thinking about what went well today, what didn't.
  - I don't know what I'm supposed to know, what I'm not supposed to know.
  - Especially being a developer, you can fall into a bad habit of not speaking up because you're afraid to tip your hand on what you don't know.
  - It's been a little tough.
  - My partner in crime, Kathleen, has the EVSS code that drives the 686 form process and eBenefits. I don't have access to that. She was given a GFE with that base on it.
  - It's been pretty painful for me.
  - I've been cobbling together business logic by making SOAP calls and seeing what data exists already in the system and hoping, like, "Hey, it's there... maybe they want this for a value, or that for a value."
  - We had a really great meeting last week with BGS. I don't know if they have a different name... That shed a lot of light on what we need to do.
  - It was validating, too.
  - After the meeting we were all talking to each other and saying how well that went, and our PM was saying, "Well what do you think? Should we have had that meeting earlier or later?"
  - And I said, "Well I'm not really sure because I didn't have any domain knowledge at the time about anything VA-related. So maybe that would've gone over my head." 
  - But that meeting was really helpful.
- Do you get the sense that it was complex or tough to connect with that team? Other teams sometimes have to jump through a lot of hoops to get in touch with the right people behind external services. Do you know if that's the case with the BGS folks?
  - I didn't really know who to connect with.
  - I guess it was difficult, becuase I didn't know what I didn't know, ya know?
  - Our PO facilitated the meeting and got us together.
  - I guess it was very difficult, because I didn't...
  - That's kind of been my problem, or my struggle with this position so far is just, not knowing what I don't know.
  - There is this error of like - since we are contractors, it seems like we have to be kind of careful about what we say and don't say, how we talk to people. So we don't really say anything, ya know.
- What is the documentation situation with BGS?
  - Cool question.
  - So we got a 70-page Word document, which is fine. Totally cool. 
  - Too much information is better than not enough.
  - It had the list of calls and then the WSDL file URL. And so we would copy the WSDL file URL and paste it in the SOAP UI
- Was this the first time you've worked with that external service?
- How long did it take?
- What parts went well? Why?
- What was easy? Why?
- What parts were difficult? Why?
- What kind of support did you need?
  - Did you connect with anyone at the external service that was helpful (or not)?
  - What documentation was useful? What wasn't?
  - What other resources did you come across that was useful? What wasn't?
- What kinds of questions came up?
  - Did you get them answered?
  - Who answered them?
  - What questions remain unanswered?
- Is there anything you will do differently next time?
- What advice would you give other developers doing this integration for the first time?
- What have you learned in your time working with this service that has made the process easier?
- Are there notes or things that you wrote down that were helpful for you as you completed the integration?

## Post-Task Interview

That covers all of the things we wanted to talk about with you today! 

- Are there any other thoughts you’d like to share about integrating with external services?
- Is there anyone else you think we should talk to about this?
- Before we wrap up, do you have any questions for me? 
- Please send any links that you mentioned to Alex Pappas and myself.

## Thank-You and Closing

Well we really appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us today. Your feedback is so helpful to us as we continue to work on the platform and make sure VFS teams are fully supported.

Great, well thank you so much again, and enjoy the rest of your day!


