# Conversation Guide for Back-End Tools Team, External Services Integration, June 2020: P3

## Introduction

- To start, let’s talk a bit about what application(s) you're working on. Can you tell me about it/them?
 	 - P3: I’m on the VFS team, previously Identity and vet.gov

## External services integration

- To start, let’s talk a bit about what application(s) you're working on. Can you tell me about it/them? Was this the first time you've worked with that external service?
	 - P3: Not new services, changes to existing services
- What parts were difficult? Why?
	 - P3: Documentation is harder than it should be. MVI documentation, went through Keybase (what do I do with this? Where it came from?) Documents are not where they say it is, not sure if it’s current. You read it, think you have an idea - trial and error in practice, can’t do it locally.
	 - P3: In testing, you will do what you think will work, push to review instance but it’s unlikely to work (need test coverage to get it pass, code review required) Or, almost works, but doesn’t quite - and then you want to make changes, so options are edit on server to see if it works - but you want to keep it, and you can’t commit. Catch 22’s testing means testing before. Would be a significant help to just skip coverage tests (could remove 10 mins out of the cycle.)
	 - P3: There’s a grey area between who owns what. For documentation, does my team fully own this because we needed to use it the first time? Or something that others would use?  Or, something is wrong everywhere, but who is going to fix it? We do it ourselves, if we want it done, we do it.
- Is this the first time you’ve worked with EVSS or what has that been like navigating?
	 - P3: It’s tricky because they are on a sustainment contract. They didn’t write it and they will be ending. Careful about what we ask for. Tests where failing; we can fix it, but right choice for them was too correct. But we made it work for our needs, we just play along with their requirements. Their suggestions are sometimes hostile to users, suggestion was to just put up a message and come back tomorrow.
	 - P3: We sometimes determine upstream problems based on just the errors it throws back
- Is there anything you’d do differently if you had to do this process again, or recommend?
	 - P3: Sooner get guidance on if I can duplicate documentation, or put it somewhere that didn’t need CAG. Hard to save anywhere easily.
- Are there any workarounds that you’ve put into place to make it easier?
	 - P3: No, but I coded after a single screen grab that was shared in a meeting. 
- Are there other external services you work with now or have in the past?
	 - P3: MVI, is worse. Before they had review instances, needed certain certificates, GFE, thought I had the whole set-up 3-6 months later - had to go to office to have install and they ended up uninstalled what was needed. Someone ended up setting it up for me on another instance. MVI requires you know a specific language from the 60s “mumps”
- What has gone well?
	 - P3: Helpful that I am adding to things that already exist. It helps to have a good contact list. 
- Has the Platform documentation helped, should it?
	 - P3: No. I did look at a presentation on end points (could use a refresh) There could be a document that is what we think of the cycle of the workflow. There are sometimes multiple sets of documentation, that might be territorial/relationship based.
