Showing us the workflow and system for manual processing of applications.
User: Legal Administrative Specialist
Systems: Add a Person + Enrollement System 
_These two systems look like ONE system to the user. They refer to it as two separate things, but it is for all intents and purposes a single system._ 

> SUMMARY: this system collects a LOT of unnecessary information. I want to know what is REQUIRED, by law, to determine eligibility...

## PROCESS

### Step 1: ADD A PERSON 
This is the application portion of the system. 

1. Search for a person. Add information of person.  
2. “Add a person” to create a new profile/application
    + No address added at this point 
    + returns "no records found" (searches for same data)
    + click "add" to create this new profile
    + eligibility screen...
        + veteran indicator = eligible, y/n... does NOT mean _is this person a veteran_? 
3. Identity Traits 
4. Personal 
+ Alias 
+ Preferred Facility (required)
+ Preferred Language (required) 
5. Associates (points of contact)
6. Addresses
7. Insurance 
8. Save in process
9. Complete registration

Then the data goes "to the ES system." 

### Step 2: ENROLLMENT SYSTEM

QUESTIONS:
+ Can you change or delete a record? No. Must go through coordinator
+ What is the name of this system? 
+ How is the SSA check triggered?
+ What about vets who don't have SSNs (born abroad)?
+ Why is the preferred facility required? Sounds like they need to be "assigned" to a facility, but can go anywhere... 
+ Why are "associates" required? 
+ Why isn't data from the DD214 being auto-populated in the "add a person" system?
