
Veteran ID: P2

Moderator: Christine

Note taker: Carolyn

Observer: Jen

Consent to record: yes

Key takeaways

HATED blue. But thought it might dissuade her.

Didn’t like the “Are you sure?” aspect of it?

o Wasn’t sure if she could select tinnitus bc we were lazy in how we coded the page.

Assumed they could get an increase for ‘all other conditions’ (including migraines)

Purple made her feel more confident in moving forward.

o On the other hand also seemed to waffle a bit in considering if she would apply.

o Liked that it kept her in the flow

o Might think about applying for one of the other conditions that might be aggravated by the tinnitus.

o Noticed that we listed the max rating for all conditions. Knew arthritis could go up to 20 without prompting.

 Would go on Reddit to find out how other people handled max disability.

Warm up

M: past experience with va.gov?

First around 2009 to file for disability compensation. Lot of questions redundant or unnecessary.

Data they already know, birthday, SSN, units I served in. Asked if I served in Vietnam, I’m not old enough. Then asked if I had been exposed to AO, well no. Same with Korean war.

Having to fill out info for units I was in, only for reserve when I did appeal a few years later. I filled it out online, then got a paper form in the mail asking me to fill out what reserve unit I was in. seemed really dumb and redundant and a waste of time. VA dragging its heels to help me.

Frustrating, not enough to deter me, but make me angry. Such a waste of time for everyone.

This year when condition got worse I filed again or additional things and increase website was much better. I didn’t have to remind them I wasn’t in VTN or Korea, not exposed to mustard gas in WWII. Didn’t have to fill out each unit I was in. made it a lot faster. Liked drop down for a lot of things, esp. for conditions, bc know she spelled it right. Quicker and improved.

As soon as you start the app your ITF is filed, which is nice. So much easier to fill out than before.

M: working with anyone else?

Doing it on my own. Fine with forms, I worked in HR. don’t intimidate me. Fine with a nice PDF.

Tried to work with a vets org on my appeal but I went in person and they never got back to me. So I decided to deal with it myself. Disappointing but wanted to get it going. They didn’t help me fill out any forms.

M: any other benefits?

Healthcare.

M: for disability comp, how many conditions?

3 conditions.

M: which ones?

Lumbar strain, which has been upgraded. Starting to take [missed this] and have a bulging disk. Tinnitus, don’t remember the third.

Scenario 2: Request CFI for Tinnitus: Purple (First!)

Clicks arthritis and tinnitus without noticing additional language at first (moving fast).

This is max so I’m not going to get anymore.

M: what does that mean to you

That’s the limit, doesn’t matter if it is bothering more or happening more often. The most they give you is 10 percent. VA thinks it only affects 10 percent of my life, or my body, but it doesn’t. it affects more.

Hovers over “what to do at max”

I have two things at max.

My arthritis could go up 10 percent if I can prove it is worse. And if there’s documentation or during my exam.

I could look here [at expando] and what do I do about T since it’s at the max, maybe other supports, other appeal process for that. So it’s not hopeless. Maybe there’s some recourse.

M: what would happen if you did click that?

Since arrow I would expect info to appear below this area. Below title. If not I would expect to open in another window. But would rather it here so I don’t have to leave the form, most important not to leave bc I’m in the middle, it may not have saved this data.

Clicks on expando

It’s telling me what cases that an increase would be possible. So if it doesn’t adequately describe my symptoms, maybe I Have other symptoms that he VA cookie cutter description isn’t cover, or if I have other evidence. Disrupting my ability to focus, or to drive, it’s distracting me. Or maybe outside ...

(veteran video froze and they lost connection)

if I had other audiology reports or other doctors I’ve seen or testimonies from people that know you I can submit that. It does say it’s possible.

M: what would you do?

I would still proceed, leave the box checked. Then I would see … imagine after this there will be something to submit some paper or document that I could attach as evidence.

M: reading that information. Would that influence your decision to file a claim for increase?

Yes, it would encourage me to complete an increase. Because at first, it’s at max they’re not going to do anything. Now I’m better educated, it is possible. If it is as bad as I’m experiencing it I can prove that, and I will be listened to. So it gives me hope.

Scenario 3: Request CFI for Tinnitus with Friction: Blue (Second!)

I’m already on the page in the form. Make sure info is right so it doesn’t go to the wrong house, an they can call me.

Something that has gotten worse.

I like that anything that I already have a condition for is here, I don’t have to retype or look it up.

It’s my D arthritis, and tinnitus.

I like the other one better, this one just says you’re at the max, and it’s it. First I’m wondering why it’s listed bc I can’t get more, only bc I saw the other form I’m assuming I can. Also it’s letting me click on it so maybe I can? But experience from before asking me if I was in the Korean war when they have my birthday, maybe it’s just a mistake that they let me click on it. Maybe they didn’t put any parameters to limit things you can’t get an increase for.

Well I’ll try but maybe they’re lazy in designing this bc they didn’t put a parameter not to select things you’re already at the max for. (Good quote!)

M: what do you think of your eligibility?

I’m still eligible for the other things, hypertension can be increased, everything else can be increased. If T doesn’t work, maybe pick something that T is contributing to, like migraines. Maybe T is contributing to stress and I need to apply for HTN. This does rely on the veteran knowing their condition well enough that those things are interconnected and having done own research or talk to doctor.

M: after reading message in T box.

I would still try, throwing all the darts on the wall to see what sticks. It says max, but I’ll still select it. My hopes not too high, maybe 50/50 chance.

(clicks continue)

It’s an alarm it says I can’t get any more!!! I’m glad it’s yellow, red would be too much.

It’s at the max, would you like to ask? Yes, that’s why I clicked the box.

Yes, I know it’s at 10 percent, why are you telling me that?

This is telling me the same info it told me before, I liked it better before when it told me on thatpage. And the ones that are at max are in a different space. This one feels like “whoa whoa whoa hey are you sure?” yes, that’s why I’m here! This makes it a little more frustrating. Bc if you have a condition you’re not going to not apply for an increase bc you’re already at the max. you’re experiencing your life, this is affecting more than 10 percent of my life, I don’t care that that’s what they decided is the maximum. (GOOD QUOTE). I Don’t need a warning are you really sure, the previous form was not frustrating it was informative, in the area where I was prepared to see it. Instead of another step stopping me from the next page. This is like a speed bump. We don’t want you to do this, can you just not?

M: what would you do next?

I would hit continue. I’d probably go online, google, or go to reddit and see if anyone has advice or experience did they get an increase? Was it possible? If that happened, how long it took? I would use that to gauge how possible is this, is it worth the effort and struggle and fight? Did anyone have advice on that?

I like reddit and I want to stay there, but the VA doesn’t provide a disability community, I have to go somewhere else to get that. Even if they did, I don’t know if I would be as streamlined and effective as reddit is.

M: if reading info on this screen would influence your decision at all to file?

I think it could influence other people, oh it’s more paperwork, gonna have to fight and convince them. I would still move on, bc what else do I gotta do? This is affecting me? This is a little frustrating, but I maybe a little anger and that can be motivating emotion. Can be frustrating, or can be like, “Hell yeah I’m going to apply for me, why is this my problem, this is your problem now!!”

M: tell me about the diff between how you experience the prototypes?

I liked that I could scroll down, here are my conditions, I don’t; see my tinnitus, oh bc there’s another section. I checked arthritis, oh here’s tinnitus, oh it’s at max, or here’s how I could get it in plain language.

Here it’s all together, T is the only on eat max, by why do I care, it’s bothering me let me do. Maybe I can click on this on accident and they weren’t through in creating this website and weren’t accounting for people at max. I did move forward, but gave me a warning that I’m at max. Worse to me. Good to know I’m at max, you already told me, it’s still bothering, and I still have to check another box that yes, I Do want an increase. And see the reason that I could get an increase. Slowing me down, speed bump in filling out the firm.

Like seeing it in one page, like that’ sit’s not a warning like I’ve made a mistake. I guess this is verifying that I saw the information. Honestly I don’t care if it’s at the max bc it’s bothering me. Doesn’t change what I need, would still continue with my form after this.

M: between the two? Which would more likely influence your decision to submit to T?

The other one would increase my decision, it’s in the max area, then info is repeated underneath, but gives me the info right there about why I can select it, is it possible. The other one is more likely to deter someone from going ahead and increasing. Might be I don’t have all the docs ready right now. I know you can put a delay so I can gather the documents. But if I didn’t know that I would maybe say no I don’t want to do that right now, just go with arthritis, and get the paperwork for T later. That might discourage me from doing it at the moment.

M: Overall experience with the research so far?

The only one thing was that the time is listed in Eastern time, so it was great when I scheduled myself, it showed me my time zone and I was about to pick, but in all follow ups it’s only in eastern time. So I get it and think wait, I’m busy at 3:30. I would like it if listed eastern and pacific time. Or just list the time zone I’m in.

