# Conversation Guide
Notetaker Notes

P1 - Oct 10, 2023

Moderator: Christine

Notetaker: Kim

Wants our help figuring out how to file her claim. Also, no observers and no video. Transcripts are ok.

Background

Talk to me about your past experience using VA.gov? 

Ed benefits. During COVID pandemic, VA set up educational benefits.

Have filed disability benefits.

Sometimes challenging to get on. Supposed to be able to get on through myHealthEVet. But I’ve never been able to do that.

Different ways to log in are confusing, multiple accounts. Usually able to get on, but not always. ID.me caused trouble. Can’t stand ID.me. Makes me change my password.

Good for getting basic information, but sometimes challenging to get to my personal information.

Was that with a rep or by yourself?

By myself. Have called the 800 number & talked to someone. They referred me to some electronic thing. Didn’t really walk me through it.

Could you tell me about the types of benefits you are receiving from the VA at this time? 

x

About how many conditions are you receiving benefits for?

My case is really weird. I’m considered disabled with 0%, which doesn’t make sense to me. But I get health care.

Not sure how many conditions. I’ve received educational benefits. I get medical care. 

I’ve been told I need to redo my claim, but I’m not sure.

If you’re comfortable sharing this information, what are some of those conditions?

Doesn’t like using this kind of website on her phone. I use my computer.

Scenario 1: Review currently rated conditions (Yellow)

If this is the 1st task: (add these instructions to chat in zoom)

Your Tinnitus and Arthritis have gotten worse, so you’re coming to the website to determine what you should do next.

View my Rated Disabilities Screen

x

What is this screen telling you? What is your initial impression of it?

I have all these issues. As of this date, my disability rating combined is 70% But it breaks it down… 30% for hypertension, etc.

This makes a difference because on applications it asks you what is your disability rating. 30% makes a difference. If you’re 100% you can get your education.

Looks like most of the rating is related to the migraines. Is my math wrong? 

How is it coming up with 70%??? It should add up to more than 100.

What does this screen tell you about your conditions? 

Looks at migraines. It’s mostly why the person is disabled. Because it’s half. Head trauma would affect your blood pressure. Arthritis just kind of happens. Right arm .. perhaps there was some injury. Everything kind of stems from the head. Ears .. maybe being in battle, hearing bombs, loud noises.

What do you think about your eligibility for more benefits? (rephrase? Doesnt think they are able to get more)

Probably because of the migraines. They’re service connected. Conditions are exacerbated with age. Yes for arthritis & tinnitus.

It says “highest standard rating.” This has confused me when I filed mine. They have certain parameters that make you over a standard.

Which conditions could you get more compensation for? 

I think I could get more for all the conditions. Except hypertension, because it might be under control with medication. Everything else.

What does “highest standard mean to you”

(1 only) 

What does the phrase ‘highest schedular rating’ mean to you?

It’s cookie cutter. Because they get all these claims. The lowest you could get would be [couldn’t hear]. Then it goes up from there.

What do you think would happen if you clicked that link?

An explanation of what this means.

Instruct participant to click on the link if they haven’t already

What can you tell me about this explanation for maximum schedular rating?

Reads aloud. Empahsizes word “capped”. It’s saying the highest you can get is 10% for Tinntus.

Reads about extraschedular rating. If someone wanted to challenge the 10%, it would maybe make me go to a doctor to have testing done. Sounds like for T, you’d have to be basically deaf to get a higher rating.

A whole bunch of process, to challenge it is going to take a lot, still might not work out to my benefit.

(1A only) 

What does the phrase ‘highest standard rating’ mean to you?

x

What do you think would happen if you clicked on that triangle symbol?

x

Instruct participant to expand the caret if they haven’t already

What can you tell me about this explanation of maximum ratings?

x

(Both versions)

What do you think you would do after reading the message about ratings at the highest level?

What do you think you might do after reviewing this screen?

Would depend on how bad my T is. If I already have 70%, would going through all this stuff, would it reduce my hypertension. I’d probably let it go, unless I were totally deaf.

What if your migraines had gotten worse - what do you think you could do?

I’m almost certain I’d have to see a neurologist, get tests. It depends on how bad it is, how much does it interfere with basic functions? Might pursue that. Maybe.

What do you think you might do here to potentially increase your overall rating?

I’d have to have a thorough medical exam. By a VA doctor. Probably would have to see different doctors, starting with a primary care, then refers out to other specialists. Neurologist, cardiologist, ENT, etc.

This is the last screen for this prototype. Before we go to the next one, can you tell me if reading that information would influence your decision to file a claim for increase? 

Only if something was really getting far worse or wasn’t manageable with care and/or medication. If my right arm was totally immobilized. Or the medication wasn’t controlling my hypertension, or my lifestyle. If I have a healthy lifestyle (don’t drink or smoke, eat healthy, not overweight, no illegal drugs, etc.), and my hypertension is still going out of whack, I’d probably look into it more. If I have migraines, have to look further. Is there an abusive situation? 

Things to watch for:

Does the intervention discourage them from claiming tinnitus and/or migraines? 

Yes

Green

800 numbers - when you can get someone on the phone, they’re usually helpful.

“Check your claims & appeals” - if I have filed a claim. Might tell me status.

“Stat a new disability claim” - would I be starting a completely new claim for something else? Maybe my left arm? A new issue. She’s unsure, giving best guess.

What’s the screen tellign you about your conditions?

It’s telling me what they know about my conditions.

What about eligibility for more benefits.

Tricky. Tinnitus & migraines are at maximum. It would have to be something extreme to go above the max.

Which could you get more comp for?

The ones where I’m at the max would be other.

What does “maximum scheduler rating” mean to you?

According the VA, this the maximum they give. Migraines, 50%. To go above, ti would have to be something extreme. Like you can’t function at all, almost comatose. Like you would need a nurse to do just basic things.

Points her to expando.

Would give me a definition.

Instructs her to click. What do you think about this explanation?

Says what I expected it to say.

Possible but rare. You have to weight it out. Is it going to make a difference in my overall rating? Some things aren’t worth the hassle.

What would you do after reading the message?

I’d probably let it go.

If my migraines got that bad, I’d have to have somebody help me file the claim. Find a Veteran organization or someone really knowledgeable to do it for me.

What would you do to increase overall rating?

Look at Degenerative Arthritis at 10% to see if it could be increased. Maybe right arm 2nd, hypertension 3rd.

Would this info influence your decision to file a claim for Tinnitus?

No. I probably wouldn’t do it. Too much hassle. I have a very peaceful life, I’d have to weigh it out.

Preference between two screens?

Goes back to look at differences.

I like the Green better, a little bit better. It separates the maximum ones.

Scenario 2: Request CFI for Tinnitus - Purple

Screen 1 (Start)

Screen 2 (Veteran Details screen)

Would check on the info. Make sure my contact info is correct. 

When I do things like this, I don’t want to have to finish later. I’d try to set aside enough time.

Screen 3 (New or Increase) → Screen 4 (New or Increase)

Condition has gotten worse. They’ve already rated, but it’s gotten worse.

Screen 5 (Select conditions)

Reading instructions carefully.

Clicks Arth & Tinnitus. But sees the maximum: It’s going to be a whole bunch of trouble.

If you were going to choose to increase, which conditions would you increase?

x

What can you tell me about the conditions on this screen?

For arthritis, max possible rating is 20%. Might be worth pursuing.

Tinn: Maximum possible is 10%. It’s going to be extremely hard to get a higher rating. You can always apply, but for me I don’t know if it would be worth it. If it was so bad my ears were falling off.

What do you think about your eligibility for more benefits?

x

What does the phrase ‘Maximum Possible Rating’ mean to you?

They have a cap. 20% for D.A. Like for 99% of the people. It would have to be something extreme, like lockjaw for your legs.

What would you do?

I’d let it go.

Moderator note: Encourage participant to open expando if they have not already

What is this text telling you? What do you think you would do after reading it?

x

This is the last screen for this prototype. Before we go to the next one, can you tell me if reading that information would influence your decision to file a claim for increase? 

x

Things to watch for:

Does the intervention discourage them from claiming tinnitus? 

Yes

Do they find knowing the maximum possible rating for all conditions helpful/useful? Do I need to add a question for this?

x

Compare prototypes

Now that you’ve looked at the two different prototypes, can you tell me about the differences in how you experienced each of them?

Between these two prototypes, which do you think would be more likely to influence your decision about whether or not to submit a claim for increase on Tinnitus or other conditions?

With all of them, I’d let it go. A lot of hassle with very little benefit.

Thank-You and Closing - 5 minutes

Well we really appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us today. 

In general, I’d love to hear what do you think about your overall experience - being scheduled for this research session, participating in the research session. Could we have done anything differently/better?

Appreciate getting the emails. But I really thought I’d be getting help filing my claim. Do you have someone who can help with that? I don’t know how to go about getting my records, doesn’t the VA have them?

Also, if they could have an explanation on the DD214 of the different codes.

