Notetaker notes

P3 2023 11 10 11:00 a.m. EDT notes 

Veteran ID: P3 

Moderator: Christine 

Note taker: Kim 

Consent to record: Yes 

Background 

Experience using VA.gov 

4 years ago, submitted claim. No problem using it. Very user friendly. 

By myself, no rep. My initial claims all done by me. 

Type of benefits 

80% IU & PT for PTSD, MST, Depression/Anxiety, Sexual Arousal Disorder 

Prototype 1 – Green 

Perfect. Tells me what to look for.  

Looking at the jump links. Combined rating – great! 

“Everything I need is right here” Effective date is really good. 

Most important right now: Starrting a new claim. Want to see if I can get an exam for increase based on my conditions getting worse. I would go to Learn more about VA disabilities. Learn what criteria I need to get to the next step. 

This is perfect! 

What’s it elling you about your specific conditions? 

If it’s service connected.  

Notices expando. I’ve never seen that before. 

Eligibility for more benefits? 

Tinitus no. Arthritis yes. 

“Maxiumum schedular ratings”? 

Never seen that before. Means I can’t apply for an increase because I’ve reached the maximum rating. 

Expando? 

I could read about what it was. Clicks and reads. 

So I could file for it, but that doesn’t mean I’d get it. I’d have to have evidence... Never seen that before – that's wonderful! that’s helpful. 

What would you do? 

I probably wouldn’t go any further. I don’t see anything unusual to say I needed the extra rating. Tinnitus causes migraines so you have a 60% right there. Why mess with it? 

What if your migraines have gotten worse? 

Might file for an increase. Meds could stop working. I’d leave Tinnitus alone. For migraines I’d definitely go for that because a lot of things could make it an unusual disability experience. 

To increae your overall rating? 

Looks at top list. DA studies show it gets worse year after year, so I could probably go for that one. 

Would this information influence your decision to file a CFI? 

Absolutely. Everything is right there. 

Prototype 2 – Yellow 

[sound broke up – missed the beginning] 

 

Mentions secondary. 

 

What’s it tellign you about your conditions? 

Percentage, SC, effective date. 

I could have other claims or appeals. 

Last two: it’s at highest standard rating. We know “standard” doesn’t mean it’s the highest. 

Clicked on the link to more info. 

Similar to other info. Tells you how to apply for an extraschedular rating. Reads bottom paragraph. 

What woiuld you do? 

I’d submit depending on what evidence I had. If I had documention that things were worse, and why, then I’d file for increase. If I didn’t', I probably wouldn’t. But they’d give you a C&P exam. You could still file for th eincrease and let them help you get that information. 

 

What if your migraines had gotten worse? 

It says I’m at the highest standrard. Clicks info link. I could still apply for an increase if there was a reason for that. Extraschedular rating – more than what the 50% standard rating is. 

 

What wiould you do to increase overall rating? 

I’d file an increase on DA or Right arm motion. Possibly migraines, tinnitus. For migraines could file secondary insomnia because I don’t sleep. 

 

Would this info influence your decision? 

Similar to the other one. Only difference was “schedular” or “standard” - but those are the same thing. 

Prefer Yellow. Wording “Highest standard” vs. “maximum schedular.” “Highest standard” you could understand without having to look up what is “maximumm schedular”? 

Prototype 3 – Blue 

I’m filing insomnia secondary to migraines. 

Worse: DA, arm. 

 

Clicks DA 

Tinnitus – that's a hard one. I wold probsbly put it in and see. Problem is: sometimes you don’t want to poke the bear. 

 

Clicks continue, then Yes. 

 

RAted disabilities screen. 

Tell me about your eligibility for more benefits. 

It doesn’t tell me anything about eligibility. 

 

Tinnitus messaging? 

Like that it tells you might not get rated for it, but it gives you the option. 

 

yes/no page 

What is this page telling you? 

I’ve reached my maximum rating BUT I can still file for increase. 

 

Click link. 

I like that word, too, “maximum rating.” 

I’m still gonna ask for an increase. Might have mitigating circumstances. But you don’t know until you submit. I’m always going to submit for the increase. 

Comparison 

 

All very similar. The wording that makes it easy. “Maximum rating” - simpler. Can understand it means “you’ve reached the highest.” “Maximum standard rating” -- too many words. “Maximum schedular rating” - what is that?!? Now you gotta go do research to figure out what that is.  

 

Any more likely to influence your decision? 

The third one would definitely influnece me just because it’s easier to undersand.  

Itwould influence you to go ahead and file?  

Yes. 

Wrap up 

It’s my fifth research session I’ve done over the years. I enjoy them. Filing was frustrating for me. Anything I can do to help make it easier for people is great! 

 

 

 
