Notetaker Notes

P6 2023 10 11 3:30 pm Notes 

Veteran ID: P6 

Moderator: Kim 

Note taker: Amy 

Observer: None 

Consent to record: Yes 

 

Background 

Experience using VA.gov 

Use it quite a bit for medical reasons: checking appointments, doing travel claims, doing VA claims 

Yes, have used it to file disability claims. Have done it on her own. 

Benefits received: 

Healthcare 

Disability 

Number of rated disabilities: 3 

PTSD 

Migraines 

Chronic Rhinitis 

 

-Technical difficulties: started looking at the prototypes around 20 minutes after the recording started- 

 

Purple 

Scenario: taken directly into a 526, here to submit a claim because tinnitus and arthritis have gotten worse]  

“It says I’m at the maximum possible rating for tinnitus, but I’m going to check it anyway. You’re going to tell me no more than once.” 

Kim prompted P6 to pretend that this was her real claim and take the time to decide what to do 

P6 decided to still check tinnitus. Then read the “what to do if you’re at the maximum” expando without being prompted. 

“They say in rare cases, but it’s possible, so I’m glad I clicked it anyway” 

“It’s confusing when it says that you’re at the maximum rating, but there’s a chance to get higher” 

What does “maximum rating” mean to you? 

That’s the most you can get compensable for that particular problem 

Tell me more about why you would still check the checkbox 

Would rather try and hear no from VA 

Possibility of getting more compensation for arthritis? 

Arthritis never gets better, always gets worse 

So the max rating is low 

Always going to try to push for the max rather than getting discouarged 

What are the chances of getting higher than 10%? 

I still think there’s a chance to get a higher 

There’s an opportunity to get to a hearing 

Can you tell which disabilities you’re at a maximum for? 

Tinnitus & Migraines 

It’s discouraging to see some things like that, might cause people to fall back, but not me 

Would it discourage you at all for claiming an increase? 

Would discourage me some 

Would be sad for someone that just started with the claim, but they couldn’t have just started... 

I’m already used to the process, so I would keep moving forward. You need to tell me to my face 

Yellow  

[information page on My VA] 

What would you do on this page? 

Would go to “Learn about VA disabilities” to see a description of disabilities and why they have a certain rating 

P6 notes that my VA already shows her combined disability rating 

If you’re thinking about tinnitus & arthritis, where would you go? 

I’d click on my individual ratings 

Would definitely read “what does it mean to be at the highest standard rating?” 

[clicks & spends time reading the page] 

“It’s basically saying what I thought it would say when I clicked it...actually, it’s a bit confusing. It’s called extraschedular rating, but I’m putting in an increase. I’m confused.” 

Kim explained that there’s a few terms: extraschedular rating, maximum possible rating, highest standard rating. What do you think about it? 

It’s too much 

It’s confusing, because I’m submitting an increase 

This information might discourage other people, not me 

Give me something simple 

We want that – the extraschedular rating 

[Going back to the previous screen] 

Individual ratings – can you tell which ratings are at the maximum? Not at the maximum? 

No, not from this page 

Well, why is that start beside the 50% 

Yes you can tell on this pgae, because it has the little star beside it 

The little star tells me that there’s something else you gotta read 

Green 

[VA disability ratings page] 

This box is useful if I had any claims I wanted to check out 

I’d probably look over hypertension and go to arthritis 

Shows I’m at 10%, service connected 

This tells me everything I’m rated on, and I’d start a new disability claim 

No, I would not start a new disability claim, because I’m trying to get an increase 

Difference between green& yellow 

The yellow one has more stuff 

It had more info 

This one tells me I'm at the max, but it doesn’t tell me more info even though there’s a smallll thing about “about maximum schedule ratings” 

There's nothing about it that makes it think it will help me 

(she does not click on it without prompting) 

She thinks it will tell me about the extraschedular rating info -- I know this because of the other prototype 

Information is good, but I don’t think I would have clicked on that 

What would you do next? 

I would file an increase 

I would do the arthritis 

But me as an individual, I might submit an increase for the other one even though it tells me I’m at the maximum just to see what happens 

What does maximum schedular ratings mean to you? 

It says to me that I can’t go higher 

It’s telling you that it’s maxed out, but there’s a rare case where you can get more than that. It should just say that in the first place. 

 

Wrapping up 

Is there a prototype that you think would be more helpful than the other ones? 

The second one 

Felt more empowered than this last one 

Don't remember purple at all 

Liked the explanation that explains what it means to be at the highest standard rating (associated with the asterisk) 

Other feedback? 

Figuring out how to use Zoom on mobile, that was frustrating 

I like what you all are doing. It can be intimidating so people might try to get help from others. 

 
