# Conversation Guide
Max CFI explorations Veteran research 

P9 – 10/12/23 – 2:30pm ET 

Participant #: 9 

Moderator: Christine 

Notetaker: Kim 

Observers: Amy 

Consent to record: Yes 

Warm-up Questions 

Talk to me about your past experience using VA.gov?  

Use it for travelPay, myHealtheVet, get a lot of email from them. Used to work at VA, training emails, benefits emails. Claims.  

I’m 100% so I don’t have to do claims now. 

Did you work with a representative or group to help you?  

There’s a VA advocate that helps you update things like status for MyHealtheVet. I did the claim myself. 

Could you tell me about the types of benefits you are receiving from the VA at this time?  

Started at 10% for Tinnitus. Went to audiology department – benefit to get my foot in the door, receive free health care. I get community care now. Now at 100% I get everything under the sun. 

If they are getting disability compensation from the VA right now, ask: 

About how many conditions are you receiving benefits for? 

Disabled since 2019. It progressed from 10% to 100%. 

Scarring – 30% (that’s why I rock a beard).  

PTSD, Sexual trauma – moved it up to 100%. 

If you’re comfortable sharing this information, what are some of those conditions? 

Scenario Blue  

Veteran Details screen 

New or Increase screen 

Select conditions 

Clicks DA and Tinnitus 

What can you tell me about the conditions on this screen? 

x 

What do you think about your eligibility for more benefits? 

It doesn’t tell me what the requirements are to be eligible. Like for a car, you need a certain credit rating. 

Before, I went to my primary doctor first, figured out what I needed to show. 

Can you tell me about the messaging for Tinnitus and what you think it means? 

I’m at the maximum rating. It means I can’t go higher than 10%. So I can’t claim it. Even if doctor at audiology said you’re getting worse. 

What do you think you would do after reading that message about Tinnitus? 

Leave it alone. (not sure what he means, leaves Tin. Selected) 

 

Screen 6 (Tinnitus Friction) 

Can you tell me what this page is about? 

Tells me again you’re at the max. 

Gives you an option. But why, if it told you you can’t get it. I’m black & white, no gray. There’s no chance – it told me you can’t. That’s why people go to the USO, they want a different answer. But you can’t, those are the instructions. 

 

Expando: 

If you’re curious you’ll click on it. 

He doesn’t click. Christine prompts him to. 

What is this text telling you?  

There’s an exception. Maybe someone diabolically would try to go out there an get that rare case. 

What do you think you would do next? 

I’d reflect on whether I have a way to prove this. If not, I’d click No. Clicks No. 

This is the last screen for this prototype. Before we go to the next one, can you tell me if reading that information would influence your decision to file a claim for increase?  

If it’s a rare case, you have to go to your doctor to find out what is that rare case. You have to present it to the VA or the regional (not sure what he means) and they show it to the VA. 

Things to watch for: 

Does the intervention discourage them from claiming tinnitus? Yes 

Scenario Yellow 

View my Rated Disabilities Screen 

What is this screen telling you? What is your initial impression of it? 

Gives you your rating, and a breakdown of what it consists of. 

What does this screen tell you about your conditions?  

Reads out the conditions. Service connected? Date effective. 

Do you think you are eligible for more benefits? 

Doesn’t say. Not like the last page (blue Yes/No). Might have to dig deeper. Notices the “What does it mean…” text. Would that give me that information? 

For which conditions?  

x 

What does the phrase ‘highest standard rating’ mean to you? 

The pinnacle, the top.  

What do you think would happen if you clicked that link? 

What does it mean… screen 

Mentions these: Rating schedule, how the VA rates your disability, maximum standard ratings. 

Hmmm…  

Reads down to bottom. 

What can you tell me about this explanation for maximum schedular rating? 

x 

What do you think you would do after reading the message about ratings at the highest level? 

Take it, do more research, see if I need it. It doesn’t give you an option, if you do meet it, to do something on the spot. Can I back out and make the claim there and then? No. It’s just an explanation. 

 

What if your migraines had gotten worse - what do you think you could do? 

Nothing. 

What do you think you might do here to potentially increase your overall rating? 

Add another issue by doing a secondary. Like I have sciatica, I could claim that. I don’t see any way to increase it besides a secondary. 

This is the last screen for this prototype. Before we go to the next one, can you tell me if reading that information would influence your decision to file a claim for increase?  

It’s not going to deter me. 

Things to watch for: 

Does the intervention discourage them from claiming tinnitus and/or migraines?  

Yes 

 

Scenario Green 

View my Rated Disabilities Screen 

What is this screen telling you? What is your initial impression of it? 

Notices Start a new disability claim. Could use it to advance my 70%. Could do it right on the spot, not have to back out. 

What does this screen tell you about your conditions?  

Why is it separated? Individual ratings, then individual ratings at the maximum. On the last page, it said for Tinnitus you’re at your max. Here it’s combined in a group with Migraines. On other page, it was in blue. Here, no option to do any more research. 

Do you think you are eligible for more benefits? 

x 

For which conditions?  

x 

What does the phrase ‘maximum schedular rating’ mean to you? 

Highest point. 

What do you think would happen if you clicked that link? 

Clicks on it. 

About maximum ratings screen 

What can you tell me about this explanation for maximum schedular rating? 

Gives you a rundown. 

What do you think you would do after reading the message about ratings at the highest level? 

Not much I can do but go talk to the doctor to see if I have that rare … (I have to go back to that page.) Feels like you’d be stuck. Doesn’t click link at bottom of expando. 

 

What if your migraines had gotten worse - what do you think you could do? 

x 

What do you think you might do here to potentially increase your overall rating? 

I would call for help. 

Or would start another disability claim. 

This is the last screen for this prototype. Before we go to the next one, can you tell me if reading that information would influence your decision to file a claim for increase?  

Yes and no. 

Yes if I know it’s going to go through. 

No, if you tell me No. There’s no caution sign either, I noticed that. 

Things to watch for: 

Does the intervention discourage them from claiming tinnitus and/or migraines?  

Yes 

 

Compare Yellow and Green: 

After reviewing the two different versions of this screen, which do you prefer and why?  

Green. It’s more detailed. 

 

Compare prototypes 

Now that you’ve looked at the two different prototypes, can you tell me about the differences in how you experienced each of them? 

x 

 

Which wording choice did you prefer - Maximum Schedular Rating, Maximum Standard Rating, Maximum Possible Rating or Maximum Rating? 

Max. Means you can’t go higher. “Maximum rating” 

 

Between these two prototypes, which do you think would be more likely to influence your decision about whether or not to submit a claim for increase on Tinnitus or other conditions? 

I would base it off of whether I have substantial evidence. 

With Blue, it doesn’t tell you in advance, you have to go through that work first. With Yellow/Green, it does the work for you. Tells you up-front. 

Doesn’t have much of a preference between Green & Yellow. Asterisks worked fine, I know what those mean. 

 

Thank-You and Closing - 5 minutes 

Feedback on overall experience? 

X 

 

Any redactions? 

x 
