# Conversation Guide
Participant Info 

Participant # 8 

Scenarios / Purple 2 - Green 1A - Yellow 1 

Date / 10/12/2023 

Time / 2 – 3pm 

Intro - 5 minutes 

Warm-up Questions - 5 minutes 

Talk to me about your past experience using VA.gov? Was that with a rep or by yourself? 

What part of it? Login has improved with some multiple options, your password can’t be like the last 10, it’s always a reset password. I used it more because I was a student and GI benefits. I started using it for PACT act, to check status of appeal, adding dependents, I’ve worked through a lot of these different things. 

(Did on his own.) 

My original claim I used VSO American Legion and they helped me with the claim and filing appeal. It’s convoluted. 

I stayed with Legion. I knew Legion at post 1, Veteran Service Officer not Organization. Adding a dependent that was pretty straightforward. 

Could you tell me about the types of benefits you are receiving from the VA at this time?  

So I originally got my first semester GI bill, and then post 9/11, and second year of grad school, and disability claim, and added dependent because it’s 75% per dependent. Service connected disabled veteran insurance, that was a terrible experience, I was trying to pay. I'm trying to get this. Part of that is process it’s and so I applaud you for trying to improve it. 

Is receiving disability benefits. 

If they are getting disability compensation from the VA right now, ask: 

About how many conditions are you receiving benefits for? 

Number I’d say 10 - 12, it’s 80% right now. 

If you’re comfortable sharing this information, what are some of those conditions? 

So headaches, tinnitus, PTSD, knee and back pain, airborn things like that. There's other things in appeals, sometimes its service connected sometimes it’s not, sometimes the percentages don’t add up. I don't fully understand. 

Upgraded this condition and the percentage stayed the same. I don’t know how that works. 

Scenario 2/Purple: Request CFI for Tinnitus - 15 minutes  

Screen 1 (Start) 

Do you have any questions before you start? 

[He is very knowledgeable of wireframes and early designs.] 

I use control and tab and hotkeys to go back and forth [strong tech user it seems]. 

Assuming Alex has similar demographics to me, tinnitus, arthritis, I assume I'm not trying to channel someone older or younger, just myself. 

Screen 2 (Veteran Details screen) 

As I mentioned before, this is fake data. You can imagine this is your personal information. Go ahead and show me how you would get started. 

(Reads info silently.) I’d check all my information, it’s great. There’s one time I had to call in to update my information but it’s terrible. I couldn't do it it in there. Helpful to know it’s saved and it’s saved here and I can finish it later and come back to it. Seeing it there and all my information is correct I click continue. I don’t need help right now just seeing what alls there. 

​​Screen 3 (New or Increase) → Screen 4 (New or Increase)​ 

Talk me through what you would do on this screen. 

Little pizza chart is helpful so I know how far along I am. You don’t know how far you are or how long it’ll take. One has gotten worse. My tinnitus and arthritis are worse. They rhyme is that on purpose? 

Screen 5 (Select conditions) 

When I clicked I expected it (the steps) to be 3 of 5 but it’s 2 of 5 still. If it stayed like that long I’d get frustrated. 

If it’s gotten worse for me I can see the max for arthritis is 20% and tinnitus is 10% and I already have 10%. What would upgrading it be for me? Is it more healthcare benefits? Is that my intention? 

If you were going to choose to increase, which conditions would you increase? 

What can you tell me about the conditions on this screen? 

What do you think about your eligibility for more benefits? 

So if I’ve already been approved of a rating and it’s gotten worse I'm trying to apply and get it. I'd see what I can get from the maximum and see what I can get to find out. Here I’d have documentation and care. I'd submit that to show I'm getting worse. If I need help I can see the different places. The VSO I've used before it’s a quick call. The contact us at the top is helpful. All the different pages to click on I’m assuming Alex would have clicked on things on the VA before getting to this form. Or had clicked around on the disabilities so see what led them here. Logging in and I’d want to see the info, it’s helpful. When I bought a house with a VA loan I'd see the info before the login to understand before going forward. (User describing the informational pages before the processes on VA.gov.) 

What does the phrase ‘Maximum Possible Rating’ mean to you? 

I don’t know what … there's a max rating, it’s linked to hearing loss, I have normal hearing loss, they’re linked, my tinnitus has gotten worse and it’s acting more frequently or intensely with that I'd want to look for treatment. The rating it increases gives me a bit more money. I just want relief from these things. Arthritis is going to hurt me, knees shoulders hurt all the time, increased rating is ok, but access to care is what I really want out of this. 

VA math we don't know what’s going to happen. If it were me I'd click on what to do if you're on the max to see what I can do. 

So I know that when I have PTSD I'm at 30% not 50% because it’s not fully debilitating so if symptoms worsen that’s what the max rating would be. VA math. It doesn’t equate to a total rating. I’m drawn here to the bold and I see the max rating is this. I'm going with my intent is Alex. I'm saying things have gotten worse. I want relief. I want a higher rating. I'm at 10%. I want a 20% because it’s worse. 10% is the max and the dropdown says it’ll go higher. It’s not always so much the rating, it’s the care and the relief of that care. I don't want ringing in my ears all the time, I'm miserable and want a  better quality of life. 

What is this text telling you? What do you think you would do after reading it? 

That’s helpful so I know I'd want to proceed with tinnitus if I can show higher rating. If it's a higher rating it’s more care, maybe a 30% or 50% would give me options of care available and that’s what I’m solving for. 

It's possible or impossible that I can get a higher than max rating. It's a little VA technical. The rating scheduler it’s almost like computer code this plus this plus that equals VA confusion. I don't’ know what usual disability is … miss work, quality of life. Arthritis isn’t going to allow me to do my job, I’ll miss work. Tinnitus I can't hear all the time because of the ringing in my ears. It's going to impact my work. I don't know the overall rating schedule, or unusual, right? 

Vague VA speak 

It might be weird a link within a link - what’s a rating schedule? What do they mean by unusual disabilities? VA has publications on everything and the VSOs are helpful finding that. (He’d read materials online.) 

Has not heard rating schedule term before. VA speak. Certain conditions at certain thresholds have ratings. They’re asking how frequent headaches are, they’re (the doctors are) trying to bracket me into something. 

This is the last screen for this prototype. Before we go to the next one, can you tell me if reading that information would influence your decision to file a claim for increase?  

Part of it’s time dependent. If I have more time I'd highlight copy in a new tab and search what the keywords are. Because I know there's upside for this one and potential for this one (referencing different conditions) and this one I'd try and put this in knowing the VA takes its sweet time and pull that number and waiting in line. What I want is relife out of this. 

Scenario 1A/Green: Review currently rated conditions - 15 minutes 

Screen 1 (Start) 

Do you have any questions before you start? 

Screen 2 (Authenticated Home)  

Talk me through what you would do on this screen if you wanted to learn more about your current condition ratings. 

Screen 3 (View my Rated Disabilities Screen) 

What is this screen telling you? What is your initial impression of it? 

This is my rating. And then I always check where my appeals are sitting. There's a long bar chart you're here 24k behind this person. I'll check in a year. 

Yes and no. I know something, and I know that I actually have a number in a line. I don’t like it, it’s so long but I know I have a place rather it being in the ether and I have no idea. By vintage this is what the board is seeing, May of 2018, you're July 2022, to see they’re making progress and have a backlog. I'm not happy about it but I'm informed. 

(Reads info. Calls out rating schedule. Calculates out the percentages and calls out that it doesn’t add up.) 

If I needed to contact the crisis line I probably wouldn't look at the bottom of my phone. Put it up top. 

I don’t have any claims or appeals. I wouldn't click there. I might be curious about the difference between the max scheduler ratings. Is the modifier scheduler necessary? I would think I'm a simple guy. My max rating there has to be some rubric. I'm from the army, there’s a rubric. What’s my max rating? There's normal ratings, there’s normal ratings, that's confusing. Maximum ratings minimum rating right? It’s a service disability so I can get treatment but it’s rated 0%. Extra scheduler it sounds like a vocabulary word. So my tinnitus I’m at the max rating and my arthritis I'm not. But I need to learn more to see it’s getting worse. I'm assuming it’s after 2013. It’s been 8 years since I've been having this and it’s getting worse. Doc asks if it’s getting worse, and I say it’s getting worse and the meds aren’t working. 

If you're in the VA healthcare system and have care available and talking to a doctor about it. You know the treatments happening and might or might not work and it’s not getting better you're looking for more comp. How would that affect what you would do? 

So if I’ve gone through the treatment piece and shifting through more compensation doctor would let me know I can get an increased rating. I have to say it’s getting worse. I don't know if it’s a new claim or upgrading an existing claim. I can check claims and appeals. I don't know if it’s a new claim, it’s here it’s just gotten worse. 

Looking for a link that says upgrade existing claim. 

Stick away from big words. Has it gotten worse? Can I upgrade my clam? Keep it simple. No scheduler. 

What was confusing about individual ratings? 

Are they connected? In the same group? They look separate just from scrolling. This big header and if it was all there the note telling me that it’s maximum rather than a separate piece. Where’s my tinnitus oh it’s down here. 

What does this screen tell you about your conditions?  

What do you think about your eligibility for more benefits? 

Which conditions could you get more compensation for?  

Arthritis from this screen because it’s not in my maximum. Tinnitus says I'm at the max and they're separated out that way. I get the bucketing this is maximum, these are not. It's confusing because this is my individual. Here are my ratings and then service connected is great. I don't know if my effective dates are helpful on this screen. The maximum piece if i’m looking at compensation this is what I’m thinking about. This is maximum here. I don't know what maximum is here for the individual ones. 

Would want to see maximum for each disability. I’m an average person i don't know what is 0 is it 10 17 20 what is the rating schedule? 

I would think my individual ratings is everything and noting that these are at max. 

Small chance to increase depending on how severe it is (max rating). I’m unsure the max rating on these. I'm guessing I can go higher on this. 

 

(1A/Green only)  

What does the phrase ‘highest standard rating’ mean to you? 

What do you think would happen if you clicked on that triangle symbol? 

Instruct participant to expand the caret if they haven’t already 

What can you tell me about this explanation of maximum ratings? 

 

(Both versions) 

What do you think you would do after reading the message about ratings at the highest level? 

What if your migraines had gotten worse - what do you think you could do? 

I’d want to learn more about it. I'd search “my conditions are getting worse how do I show that”. I’m going to go to the doctor. I want to get a higher rating and I'd think learning more about it, doing that research here’s what to do. Tell me to do a new claim or upgrade an existing. What’s that call to action? I’d want to learn more. 

What do you think you might do here to potentially increase your overall rating? 

That is, I'd have to understand VA math. If I'm trying to get my overall rating up, if you’re in the cusp you can get a tax break, so it sometimes is what is worsened and what have I done? If I have a claim or appeal in. I was in the initial claims that was the big VA issue in 2010, so they quickly adjudicated claims and they denied them so I went from clams to appeals. They moved from one mess to another. They get more and more as it filters in. So if I’m Alex I put in 2013. I waited 2 or 3 years. I do an appeal because they denied something. They have arthritis and I probably have other joint issues. 

This is the last screen for this prototype. Before we go to the next one, can you tell me if reading that information would influence your decision to file a claim for increase?  

I’d go with the rating schedule doesn’t accurately reflect my schedules. I'd still try because you don’t know. It's frustrating. Similar to the bar chart at least if they say no I’ve tried. I can tell my doctor I tried. Try a fan at night, it’s not helping doc. Other question, the effective date of me getting worse is when I put in this claim is it back dated to the original date? If I'm looking at compensation it has a big impact. 

I’d say I can increase one and there's a small chance I'll at least try. It’s therapeutic at least I've tried and know and get communication from the VA. 

Scenario 1/Yellow: Review currently rated conditions - 15 minutes 

Screen 1 (Start) 

Do you have any questions before you start? 

One thing I haven't mentioned on the official website of US, the VA government always loses my social. So seeing the claim at the top helps with security. 

Screen 2 (Authenticated Home)  

Talk me through what you would do on this screen if you wanted to learn more about your current condition ratings. 

Screen 3 (View my Rated Disabilities Screen) 

What is this screen telling you? What is your initial impression of it? 

Erasing what i’m saying earlier. It’s letting me know what the highest rating is. Standard rating it’s probably VA legalese. Why the highest rating with the highest rating, and what does it mean? See I'm not at the highest rating with these? Hopefully my hypertension hasn’t gotten worse but I know my arthritis has, so I know with this I'd apply to increase the arthritis, and tinnitus is the max standard. Click on it to see what it means. Here we are explaining the rating schedule. (Reads.) Gives me the next steps on what to do. Doesn't really describe that to do something for this I have to do this. I have to select the conditions. Know this, I know I have to submit the claim and the ones increased. (Goes back) Then I'd like to try and put in a claim but I’m not seeing where to. 

What does this screen tell you about your conditions?  

Me just looking at it I don’t know how they’re ordered, they're random. I don't’ know highest to lowest, it’s not alphabetized, I have to search. I know everything is service connected with save date that's when I put in the notice to file. I see a bit of the structure because they don’t have the high standard. Tinnitus doesn’t have the highest. I’m not going to put in more but, arthritis got worse. Question I don't’ know to solve for that if my arthritis goes from 10 - 20 does the percentage go from 70% to 80% or does it stay at 70%? If I use a calculator to do a bank loan I have a calculator, if I have these claims at these percentages what would happen? 

(Would a calculator be helpful?) Not so much on that screen but when I apply to upgrade something like that would be helpful.  

This screen is looking at rating, the niche case to look at ratings. Sometimes people ask when I was doing my rehab. I had to show I was at least 30% to get rehab. Property tax exemption. I get at last 30%, I show that, VA will occasionally send mail to let me know qualifications. 

What is helpful verses information overload? 

Was a product manager at military.gov 10 years ago. 

I’m a user. What are the different use cases? I’m trying to over verbalize why I would use this page. 

What do you think about your eligibility for more benefits? 

Which conditions could you get more compensation for?  

 

(1/Yellow only)  

What does the phrase ‘highest standard rating’ mean to you? 

I think there’s always an outlier plain language. There's always a standard rating. I’m from the army. I’m trained. There’s always a standard I can’t go over that, there might be an exception this is what they’re going to give me. It’s not going to fix the headaches, it's going to give me the best care and access. 

What do you think would happen if you clicked that link? 

Instruct participant to click on the link if they haven’t already 

What can you tell me about this explanation for maximum schedular rating? 

Headline approachable, what does it mean when I'm at the highest standard of disability? VA has to have some structure, some rubric even though each case can be a bit different. It’s helpful to see some disabilities have 100 and some have lower. Tinnitus is capped at 10%. It’s annoying but not like my roommate is an amputee. Different ratings have different levels they are capped at, and max rating which is that cap. Sometimes very rare we can get higher but probably not and that defines what extra scheduler is. I've never heard that word but at least I know that word. If I go with the flow and go with that rating I have to do both these bullet points not either. Uhm, the one thing for me is that’s how I have to do it. Going back I'm probably not going to do extra for tinnitus. Going back my arthritis has gotten worse. I'm going to try and upgrade that. I’m going to apply to upgrade that. 

 

(Both versions) 

What do you think you would do after reading the message about ratings at the highest level? 

What if your migraines had gotten worse - what do you think you could do? 

What do you think you might do here to potentially increase your overall rating? 

This is the last screen for this prototype. Before we go to the next one, can you tell me if reading that information would influence your decision to file a claim for increase?  

The way i’ve understood this this page in isolation I’m at the top here at 10%. it's annoying but I'm not going to get anything else if the intent is to get the higher rating. I'm going to focus on arthritis. 

This version shows the higher ratings, somewhat dissuaded on this one to increase tinnitus even though it’s gotten worse. I’m assuming Alex was in combat as I was, everyone has tinnitus. 10% isn’t a lot but it is what it is. Arthritis there’s room to increase this. If I increase it maybe one rating will be a quicker turnaround, still VA speed. 

Compare prototypes 

Now that you’ve looked at the two different prototypes, can you tell me about the differences in how you experienced each of them? 

On green you’d still apply for both, but on yellow that one dissuaded you from applying. Do you know why? 

More information. This information was included in the other but didn’t tell me what the rating scheduler was or what the standard rating was. Verses yellow when I click on this it explains what the rating schedule is and how each one is applied at certain levels. Ok this one is going to be capped at 10%. I’m frustrated. I want answers. Not only am I coming here to increase the claim I want to know what's the realm of possible. If I say ok some are just capped at 10%, tinnitus is capped at 10% I’m not going to do anything. The other you have a shot because I only see this little piece. 

How does purple compare to yellow? 

So if I did yellow and came to this, this is building and teaching me more. I’m aware of rating schedules. I'm aware of my ratings and this is my max. I can see I can get an additional 10% here. I know 10% is 10% and I'm not going to go here. It's incremental, I don’t know what I don't know. The first time you submit a claim, I don't know anything. I start to learn more and more educated and more patient. The VA is more up front telling me what’s going on. Even the long bar chart at least I'm being more informed. If I'm not informed I speculate I wonder what this is or what this can be. 

Rating wording feedback 

Maximum rating is more definitive. Maximum standard rating is wiggle room. Maximum rating is this is the max there is more chance of getting something, why can I click on these if I can’t do anything. Simpler is better, what to do if I’m at the max. I could do something but I understand min and max. Extra scheduler highest standard may work because VA is bureaucracy what is normal speak? What do people say? 

 

Between these two prototypes, which do you think would be more likely to influence your decision about whether or not to submit a claim for increase on Tinnitus or other conditions? 

Thank-You and Closing - 5 minutes 

In general, I’d love to hear what do you think about your overall experience - being scheduled for this research session, participating in the research session. Could we have done anything differently/better? 

From the scheduling piece this is the second one I’ve done, every time they send a calendly all spots have been taken even though it just launched. I think there’s an issue. This time there was a cancellation and there was this time and this time only. 

Sending a calendar invite, this was an email with a zoom link. A calendar invite would be helpful. 5 min calendar hold but didn't have the details. This was making sure I did this and you can see it’s 5 mins. This was when I went through to do the filtering to see if I was qualified. This is how I had to enter. 

I work at USAA now. I want to help veterans to take time to make things better because when veterans hit too many blocks they stop seeking help. 

Trying to be solution oriented rather than complaints. 

Your feedback is so helpful to us as we continue to work on the site and make sure it really works for Veterans. I just want to check once more that you are still feeling good about us using your feedback or if you would like to redact anything we discussed today? 
