Notetakers Notes

Conversation Guide

Participant Info

●       Participant # 7

●       Scenarios / Green 1A - Yellow 1 - Purple 2

●       Date / 10/12/2023

●       Time / 11a - 12p

●       Sketch link

●       Prototype link

Intro - 5 minutes

Warm-up Questions - 5 minutes

●       Talk to me about your past experience using VA.gov? Was that with a rep or by yourself?

○       I have started a claim on va.gov. After I had a claim and it was approved I called in I think to the 1800 number to get an update because I thought something wasn’t processed correctly. Oh we processed it, but we need you to find form (big number) you go here and search this specific thing and I found it and I printed it out but I didn’t know what to do so I took it to a DVA rep. I still have a pending claim and I filed a supplemental claim, I got to look for updates frequently. I use eBenefits a lot, I use that site a lot and use that often.

●       Did you start off alone and then get help?

○       Yes

●       Could you tell me about the types of benefits you are receiving from the VA at this time?

○       Enrolled in the VA for all my healthcare that’s the only place I’m going now. I have private insurance secondary through my work. Actually I think VA bills my insurance first and they cover the rest. I’m at 40% disability, I receive disability for tinnitus and a knee injury from when I was a firefighter. Those are the 2 claims I have now.

Scenario 1/Yellow & 1A/Green: Review currently rated conditions - 15 minutes

Screen 1 (Start)

●       Do you have any questions before you start?

Screen 2 (Authenticated Home)

●       Talk me through what you would do on this screen if you wanted to learn more about your current condition ratings.

○       I can tell I’m logged in cause there’s my name. I assume it’ll be my actual information. So first if I wanna see what my disability is I’d probably click here it looks like it’ll take me here anyway. (Read info on screen.) Mentions that it doesn’t include claims in process. It actually breaks it down for what it is. (Read more.) I See what I currently have and if I want to, let’s see, uhm, that ones maxed (noticed max) lets see I’m at 70%. And then so it tells me I don’t know I’ve never seen that wording before, maximum schedular rating, I’m assuming you have the max percent for tinnitus and migraines but not up here.

GREEN - Screen 3 (View my Rated Disabilities Screen)

●       What is this screen telling you? What is your initial impression of it?

●       What does this screen tell you about your conditions?

●       What do you think about your eligibility for more benefits?

●       Which conditions could you get more compensation for?

(1A/Green only)

●       What does the phrase ‘highest standard rating’ mean to you?

○       Probably that it’s the highest rating for that so if I I actually do have tinnitus if I have my disability was worse, 10% is the max i can get anyway, to me I’d think that filing an increase for more service connected to that specific disability. If I’m already at 10% then I wouldn’t be able to get that increase, same for migraines. If I was looking to increase it to 60% or 100% i’m already getting the max allowed for migraines specifically. That’s what it looks like. I know how they bundle some things so it’s like 2 + 2 + 2 = 40% so uhm I know that’s interesting, they combine them weird. If I wanted to increase my arthritis one looks like I’m not at that max so I can use these up here I can still file for additional compensation if it’s gotten worse if it’s a secondary.

●       What do you think would happen if you clicked on that triangle symbol?

○       Hopefully it’s going to tell me that … what I’m assuming that since I’m at the max for that that it can’t be increased. If I’m at the max for tinnitus what can I do for like hearing that’s similar and maybe file for an increase on that one.

○       I’ve never heard of extrascheduler ratings either. I guess my math then, I really do have tinnitus and it’s just constant high pitched, it’s kinda like a suspense right before something bad happens in a horror movie all the time. It’s crazy but uh but I think wow if it maybe I might be able to if it was causing me miswork or hospitalization I think hey maybe I can file for an increase for that because it's just mildly effecting me it’s REALLY affecting me a lot because I had not heard I could do that before.

●       Instruct participant to expand the caret if they haven’t already

○       What can you tell me about this explanation of maximum ratings?

(Both versions)

●       What do you think you would do after reading the message about ratings at the highest level?

○       I’d click on to learn more about what that is and how to go about that if I can do it myself or if I need to present more evidence get more info from a doctor sometimes you go to a private doctor to get an extra opinion to submit claim for more evidence or go to VA to look into it further.

●       Feedback on extrascheduler rating info:

○       It looks like if that was I’m at the max for tinnitus, I know it says rare cases, if it really is something I really wanted to specifically pursue and that I can show that the scheduler doesn’t see my symptoms or if I have a second opinion from a private doctor and if I have a new evidence I want to support why I need to increase what I’m maxed out at, I’d click it and see about submitting a claim for that. And I would also wonder too I guess, theres 2 as Alex I’m thinking if I do the extrascheduler rating do I need to do it separate from the one I’m trying to do or is it in the same one. Because I’ve heard not to do more than one at a time because it muddles things. I don’t think you can have two (claims) open at the same time, I’d call the phone number to ask a service rep, Google in a search bar and see you know, what the best way would be if I want to pursue two different claims and I’m at the max, is that pursued separately or at the same claim.

●       What if your migraines had gotten worse - what do you think you could do?

○       I would probably go down to look I’d see I’m at the max there also and see if I could qualify if I had extra ratings, like tinnitus if I can get an increase for those as well and go about the same path, but then I’d worry do I need to do one at a time or do both together, I’d have to look and see how that went.

●       What do you think you might do here to potentially increase your overall rating?

○       I would probably, to increase overall, I would check to see if had any existing claims or appeals out there, sometimes I forget if I have something pending, I have to wait until that one closes, or just start a new disability claim, and I think it walks you through what it’s going to be for.

●       This is the last screen for this prototype. Before we go to the next one, can you tell me if reading that information would influence your decision to file a claim for increase?

○       Definitely would by looking at if I think I have a case that, it says rarely, but if I have a strong case and it doesn’t hurt if you do have a case then I would probably pursue that and move forward with trying to get an increase. But I would prioritize which one if I’m wanting to get an increase for arthritis and that’s not maxed out. I'd start there first, because the other ones it says I have a rare case. Maybe I need to gather more evidence and move forward with that one, but prioritize the others first.

YELLOW Screen 3 (View my Rated Disabilities Screen)

●       What is this screen telling you? What is your initial impression of it?

○       (Scrolls through and reads.) Ahh I think I kinda like this one a bit better because it groups them together, I see the combined math is 70% but then it says then you’re at 30% for this 10% for this, and then it tells me right there that I’m at the highest standard rating for migraine and highest in the same group. Earlier I was trying to add them up and I don’t see this up here or that down there. That’s a bit more confusing, I like this because it’s grouped together instead of separate but the asterisk telling me I have the same info and I can click here to find out what that means to be at the highest standard and the extrascheduler and what to do if I think I have a case. I like it arranged better this way. I see I’m at the max, now that I see this here I think that was the intent, but before I thought it was categorizing it different somehow.

●       What does this screen tell you about your conditions?

●       What do you think about your eligibility for more benefits?

●       Which conditions could you get more compensation for?

(1/Yellow only)

●       What does the phrase ‘highest standard rating’ mean to you?

○       That 50% if I’m at the max I guess, like a cap, of what that can be rated at. Then that’s what it says to me. For the standard rating. I think that’s what it means.

●       What do you think would happen if you clicked that link?

○       I see it does say I think something I missed in the wording although I read over it in the previous prototype. So it makes sense that some disabilities you can get up to 100% rating maybe there’s something arthritis maybe that's able to be 100% but others are capped at lower levels. Those are definitely capped at less than 100% for that condition and I was like oh I'd be interested in knowing what disabilities you can get 100% for. Maybe I should pursue one of those. I don’t know it depends sometimes you get secondary this this and this and maybe I try and pursue the 100% rating through a different way. That does make sense. I read that earlier, I skimmed over it. I see now it says not all disabilities are capped at a specific rating, I don’t know which aren’t, maybe cancer?

●       What would you do next?

●       Instruct participant to click on the link if they haven’t already

○       What can you tell me about this explanation for maximum schedular rating?

(Both versions)

●       What do you think you would do after reading the message about ratings at the highest level?

○       If I am at ones that are capped at lower level I would go ahead and after I read how you might be able to get above the rating limits for that as long as I can uh, I guess it says the rating schedule does not adequate describe the limits, since tinnitus is related to hearing, maybe I have to go back and pursue higher rating for hearing. Maybe if it’s specifically causing missed work or hospitalizations maybe I’d be able to get the evidence uploaded to support it and go from there.

●       What if your migraines had gotten worse - what do you think you could do?

●       What do you think you might do here to potentially increase your overall rating?

○       I world first I’d probably check to see if I don’t have an existing claim then I would look to see if I had a recent decision do I want to file for an appeal or a supplemental claim sometimes because I know they send you a letter and if you don’t agree with the current decision you can file an appeal in a certain number of days and you can go back to your start date from your original claim rather than starting over I made that mistake once. I was trying to do it by myself, I’d click on the one I wanted to increase and started looking there but first I'd look to see what my recent ones were and go from there.

●       This is the last screen for this prototype. Before we go to the next one, can you tell me if reading that information would influence your decision to file a claim for increase?

○       I definitely would still pursue that if I would like to get an additional increase from my rating. I would still go ahead with my claim.

●       Preference between the two?

○       Definitely prefer this one over the first one. I like the way it shows the 70% and has your individual ratings and has it all together. Blocking it up, here’s the ones you’re at the highest, I was going back and forth. Is it separate or is it the same? That was confusing, but now I see it was separated because these were the two that the max. I like seeing it all together and that I'm at the highest for that. I was going to wait I don’t see that one.

Scenario 2/Purple: Request CFI for Tinnitus - 15 minutes

Screen 1 (Start)

Do you have any questions before you start?

Screen 2 (Veteran Details screen)

As I mentioned before, this is fake data. You can imagine this is your personal information. Go ahead and show me how you would get started.

●       Let’s see, step 1 of 5, (reads info on screen), I’d make sure all my information is accurate, I want to make sure they can let me know a status or know if you have to take a test. Then I would go ahead and and everythings correct, I'd hit continue and go to the next step.

Screen 3 (New or Increase) → Screen 4 (New or Increase)

Talk me through what you would do on this screen.

●       (Reads) So I definitely would want to file for an increase I’d select the bottom one it’s not something new I want to make sure I get an increase on something I've been rated on.

Screen 5 (Select conditions)

●       So if we’re doing the arthritis and the tinnitus it’s going to let me do it together even though I’m at the max rating, I’d also look at the info at the bottom I’d see if I need to do it separately or not. So I know that part. Ok so it tells me about what to do. So you maybe able to get a higher rating - so I guess what to do when I'm at the max - I'm assuming I'm doing it correctly. Assuming I do have extra evidence I want to submit. I’m going to leave it clicked. So it says what to do if I'm at the max. So far it doesn't look like I have to do outside of what I'm expecting. It’s just letting me know you have to have other evidence, something unusual. Then I would go to continue.

●       If you were going to choose to increase, which conditions would you increase?

●       What can you tell me about the conditions on this screen?

●       What do you think about your eligibility for more benefits?

○       So definitely it doesn’t look like my if my arthritis and I’m at a 10% and I can go up to at least another 10% and I know it’s possible with supporting evidence that’s it's worse or I don't agree with the initial rating and I want it at the max. And then I see I'm at the max for tinnitus. Maybe I'd decide I don't want to go for the max on that one. But if I think I have enough supporting evidence I'd go ahead and get that rare grant of an additional disability however it might be increased.

●       What does the phrase ‘Maximum Possible Rating’ mean to you?

○       Such as here it says I’m at 10% and the max is 20% I know if I do have if it has gotten worse I’m eligible for that extra 10% and it’s already the max and I really think I have a strong case I’m going to go ahead and try and submit my evidence to see if I’m eligible for that.

●       What is this text telling you? What do you think you would do after reading it?

○       Probably go ahead and click continue. I guess maybe at first before I clicked on it. I thought maybe it might be an extra step maybe it’s a form or maybe have more info. I'm assuming I'm doing the same thing. I'm clicking here and here and it’s a next step. It let me click it. It really just kinda tells me that if you’re at the max. I think if it’s not possible at all it wouldn’t let me select it in the first place. Since it I did let me select it’s telling me that you have to provide extra evidence and provide a strong case to be able to have that particular disability increase.

●       This is the last screen for this prototype. Before we go to the next one, can you tell me if reading that information would influence your decision to file a claim for increase?

○       I would definitely continue moving forward with my rating increase for sure.

Compare prototypes

Now that you’ve looked at the two different prototypes, can you tell me about the differences in how you experienced each of them?

●       I’d definitely there’s that funny form name, why do they put EZ after it, is it easy? So I like that it says your app will be saved at every change. If I wanted to pause here because I'm anticipating that the next screen will say something like do you have evidence and it wants you to upload it right now, I forget if I did that and if I submit my claim and if you submit your evidence later. I anticipate that’ll be my next step that I’ll be uploading any new material that I have or any new evidence that I have to support my increase request. I might come back later I’d get this extra evidence together and if I don’t have it and well maybe it’s something I need to get. I need to go back to the doctor before I claim it. I might uncheck the tinnitus and continue with the other one. I’d want to find out more about if I can have two claims open at the same time or if I should wait or do them together. That would be my next thought process. I’m assuming if I’m asking for something that’s already documented and has more available and it’s getting worse I have that on file or maybe I have a visit and I was expecting I was going to upload something. This one here is saying I have some compelling evidence. Maybe I need a letter or really documented in my case somewhere that when the VA goes to look with it they’ll find it and I'll upload at the next step.

Wording variations opinions?

●       Definitely possible rating is the more simple way for that. I”ve never seen extrascheduler or scheduler I’ve never heard of that before. It probably is a term that the VA uses, but I hadn’t heard it before so it definitely as far as keeping it as simple and easy to understand as possible the max possible rating makes the most sense for sure. I like that it says your current and max possible I see each thing that I’m eligible for increase too.

Between these two prototypes, which do you think would be more likely to influence your decision about whether or not to submit a claim for increase on Tinnitus or other conditions?

●       I think probably definitely the second one, the first one the layout was a bit more, I guess it doesn’t flow as smoothly, so the second one for sure.

Thank-You and Closing - 5 minutes

In general, I’d love to hear what do you think about your overall experience - being scheduled for this research session, participating in the research session. Could we have done anything differently/better?

●       No I mean ya’ll I’ve done a couple of these I think with the 3rd party that sends them out so it’s always you know you sign up here, find an open slot, get the confirmation and sometimes you get an outline what the prerequisite are. I haven’t done that or experienced that etc. I like to help others if I can have the process easier. I get a confirmation great you are confirmed. Yesterday I got a reminder that it’s tomorrow. I had it on my calendar like all right. It’s been easy and the contact I’ve had there and she's always been quick to reply on anything.

Your feedback is so helpful to us as we continue to work on the site and make sure it really works for Veterans. I just want to check once more that you are still feeling good about us using your feedback or if you would like to redact anything we discussed today?

●       Absolutely, I like the way you’re like talk through as you’re thinking as you read things. I'm an overthinking and pick through things sometimes.
