# Conversation Guide
Max CFI explorations Veteran research 

P11 - Date - Time 

Participant #: p11 

Moderator: Christine 

Notetaker: Kim 

Observers:  

Consent to record: Yes 

Warm-up Questions 

Talk to me about your past experience using VA.gov?  

To file adiitional claims, supplemental claims to my initial claim. Recently filed a new claim for new issues related to PACT Act. Didn’t use it for initial claim. 

Did you work with a representative or group to help you?  

Yes. Texas Veteran’s Commission. 

Could you tell me about the types of benefits you are receiving from the VA at this time?  

Disability, healthcare appointments, prescription refills. 

If they are getting disability compensation from the VA right now, ask: 

About how many conditions are you receiving benefits for? 

4 now, claims in on an additional 6. 

If you’re comfortable sharing this information, what are some of those conditions? 

PTSD, right knee, left knee, tinnitus.  

Scenario Green 

View my Rated Disabilities Screen 

x 

What is this screen telling you? What is your initial impression of it? 

Pretty standard. Combined stuff 70%. Individual ratings. 

What does this screen tell you about your conditions?  

Service connected, date it was awarded. % the VA is awarding it as. 

Do you think you could get more benefits? 

Doesn’t explain how to get more benefits. Guess I could start a new claim. The question is unclear to him. 

When I went through the process myself, it was very un-intuitive. That’s why I reached out to TVC to understand what was needed. 

Doesn’t tell me what to do if they get worse over time. How I could get those increased. 

E.g. My right knee problem has caused problems on my left side. What do I do? 

For which conditions?  

x 

What does the phrase ‘maximum schedular rating’ mean to you? 

No idea. 

Clicks link (unprompted) 

What do you think would happen if you clicked that link? 

X 

About maximum ratings screen 

What can you tell me about this explanation for maximum schedular rating? 

Reads short text, then goes to longer page. All unprompted. Is reading quickly word by word. 

The VA has a cap on what each condition can be rated as. If your condition falls outside the bell curve – you’re an extreme case – if you can prove that, you deserve a higher rating. If you have the medical documentation to back that up, then ok. That makes sense. That makes perfect sense. I didn’t understand what that meant at all, but you click on that and it makes sense. 

What do you think you would do after reading the message about ratings at the highest level? 

I don’t think I have something that would fall under those conditions. 

If I did, I’d understand what to do.  

I think that’s a pretty good explanation for it. 

 

What if your migraines had gotten worse - what do you think you could do? 

If you could show it was that bad, you could file for an increase. 

What do you think you might do here to potentially increase your overall rating? 

Is stuck on bottom part of screen. Doesn’t know what to do. 

Show all of your medical records. 

Are there conditions you think you could get an increase for? 

Possibly. 

This is the last screen for this prototype. Before we go to the next one, can you tell me if reading that information would influence your decision to file a claim for increase?  

It might. Now that I know this information. 

I’d make a claim for both Arthritis and Tinnitus. And migraines, you learned you could make a claim for those to. 

Things to watch for: 

Does the intervention discourage them from claiming tinnitus and/or migraines?  

No 

 

Compare Yellow and Green: 

After reviewing the two different versions of this screen, which do you prefer and why?  

x 

Scenario Yellow 

View my Rated Disabilities Screen 

x 

What is this screen telling you? What is your initial impression of it? 

I still don’t understand VA math! 

Click the link to info page. 

What does this screen tell you about your conditions?  

…. Reading out… Highest standard rating… tinnitus, right arm, hypertension 

Do you think you are eligible for more benefits? 

x 

For which conditions?  

x 

What does the phrase ‘highest standard rating’ mean to you? 

Clicks on link. Reads. Same thing as the last one. You can submit showing you’re having lost work or frequent hospitalizations to go above 

What do you think would happen if you clicked that link? 

X 

About maximum ratings screen 

What can you tell me about this explanation for maximum schedular rating? 

x 

What do you think you would do after reading the message about ratings at the highest level? 

Depends on what your situation is. How bad your disability is. Frequent, debilitating migraines. If you can show that they affect your ability to work, you could submit that to the VA, apply for the disability rating to be raised. 

What if you were alex? 

I wold take my documentation for the arthritis, whatever I have, submit that. There’s nothing that says you’re at the top. 

For tinnitus, take the documentaiton I have and still submit for Tinnitus. Because if you’re filing a claim for your arthritis as well, the most the VA is going to do is say “No.” You might as well take the extra time to file for your Tinnitus as well. 

 

What if your migraines had gotten worse - what do you think you could do? 

x 

What do you think you might do here to potentially increase your overall rating? 

x 

This is the last screen for this prototype. Before we go to the next one, can you tell me if reading that information would influence your decision to file a claim for increase?  

x 

Things to watch for: 

Does the intervention discourage them from claiming tinnitus and/or migraines?  

Nope 

Compare 

They’re both pretty … both good. Yellow might be slightly better. Because it’s letting you know you’re at the top. 

Scenario Blue  

Veteran Details screen 

New or Increase screen 

Clicks worsened. 

Select conditions 

Clicks arthritis and Tinnitus. 

What can you tell me about the conditions on this screen? 

Arthritis - Current rating – 10% 

Tinnitus – 10% - already at the maximum rating. They’re not going to increase the rating above 10%. 

What do you think about your eligibility for more benefits? 

x 

Can you tell me about the messaging for Tinnitus and what you think it means? 

What do you think you would do after reading that message about Tinnitus? 

I’m still going to submit the claim. Just so it’s in the file, that it’s getting worse. 

 

Tinnitus Friction 

Can you tell me what this page is about? 

x 

Expando: 

Clicks immediately 

What is this text telling you?  

Reads aloud. Emphasis on “official”, “and” 

What do you think you would do next? 

Clicks Yes. It’s just double-checking that you read it. Are you one of those special rare cases, you think you deserve more and can you prove it, before we’re going to spend time looking at the evidence you send in. 

I guess it depends on what you believe you have. It’s up to what Alex feels – if it’s really bad, he’s at the end of his rope, he’s been to the hospital, been to the psych ward. 

This is the last screen for this prototype. Before we go to the next one, can you tell me if reading that information would influence your decision to file a claim for increase?  

I don’t know if it would influence me yes or no. I think the first two boxes… I already understand what “you’re at the maximum” means. Unless you can show you’re special, you deserve more. 

By the time I’ve gotten here, I’ve already made that decision. 

When did you make that decision? 

Ooops, I’m thinking of the last example. So yeah, I guess this would work, if you didn’t see the previous ones.  

This would influence me, that if I didn’t have the medical documentation to back it up, this would be a waste of time. I probably wouldn’t do it. Unless I have the documentation. Otherwise there’s no point in doing it. 

Things to watch for: 

Does the intervention discourage them from claiming tinnitus?  

x 

Compare prototypes 

 Wording 

Maximum Possible Rating is clearest. Most definitive, makes the most sense. “Schedular” – huh?!? 

Explainer text. Small box or whole page. 

I didn’t like Green. It used “schedular”.  

Blue is pretty good. Concise. Makes sense. It’s all right there. Not so much the verbiage, but the way it’s set up. Verbiage – prefers “maximum possible rating” 

What about the yellow box alert format? 

I’m used to seeing stuff like that, clickiing on the drop-down arrow. 

 

Between Green and Yellow, is there a preferred condition display? Separated vs. big list? 

Not really. 

I didn’t notice in Green that they were broken apart. That’s interesting. That’s kind of nice!  

 

Between Green/Yellow and Blue, would one be more likely to influence you? 

The ones that show you’re not at the max possible might be… not sure what he’s saying. You’re putting a claim in anyways, why not add to it?  

 

Between these two prototypes, which do you think would be more likely to influence your decision about whether or not to submit a claim for increase on Tinnitus or other conditions? 

None of them would make me stop. I wouldn’t put a frivolous claim in. 

 

Thank-You and Closing - 5 minutes 

Feedback on overall experience? 

Pretty good. 

Let people know they need a mouse. 

 

Any redactions? 

No 
