# Conversation Guide 

Participant Info 

Participant # 12  

Scenarios / Blue 3 - Green 1A 

Date / 10/13/2023 

Time / 230 – 330pm 

Sketch link 

Prototype link 

Intro - 5 minutes 

Warm-up Questions - 5 minutes 

Participant was only told that they were to join from 230 - 3 rather than a full hour. Also requested to do the interview off camera. 

Talk to me about your past experience using VA.gov? Was that with a rep or by yourself? 

Yeah uhm I used VA.gov to navigate and to see different benefits and enrollments years back and to … I didn't know how to do much about claims and they try and put you in contact with a VSO and in time they tried to integrate the site into being more user friendly and it’s more accessible now. 

It (their claim) goes somewhere it takes an extremely long time and I don't know why it takes so long. I know you don’t do that you only do the website that’s the most frustrating part. I don’t know why it takes so long (to get my claim processed). 

Could you tell me about the types of benefits you are receiving from the VA at this time?  

Is receiving some sort of disability benefits. 

If they are getting disability compensation from the VA right now, ask: 

About how many conditions are you receiving benefits for? 

3 conditions 

If you’re comfortable sharing this information, what are some of those conditions? 

Scenario 3/Blue: Request CFI for Tinnitus with Friction - 15 minutes  

Screen 1 (Start) 

Do you have any questions before you start? 

Screen 2 (Veteran Details screen) 

As I mentioned before, this is fake data. You can imagine this is your personal information. Go ahead and show me how you would get started. 

(Read info. Clicked continue.) 

​​Screen 3 (New or Increase) → Screen 4 (New or Increase)​ 

Talk me through what you would do on this screen. 

(Clicked bottom selection and continued, no comments.) 

Screen 5 (Select conditions) 

(Clicked arthritis and tinnitus, no comments.) 

What can you tell me about the conditions on this screen? 

The percentage rating. 

What do you think about your eligibility for more benefits? 

Do I think I'd be approved? Do I think I have the option to select it? 

It's hard to say it doesn’t say you have “hey the opportunity”. There's no proof of burden. (Reads.) I’m not sure it’s saying this is the list, what are you asking for? Is there documentation that it’s worse? You need to back it up, I can’t just go “hey I want to increase”. However, I know from past experience and reading on it too. If you're at 10% and you got it at the beginning and you're at the max you’re not going to get it. Arthritis you would. It doesn’t really pay to check out tinnitus because you're tapped out. 

I guess to put it through anyway and you’re at the max for tinnitus like I guess to keep it checked anyway then they can tell you verbally or in writing you can't do it anyway, it’s a mistake. (User mentioning they’d put the claim through anyway just to see what they can get.) 

Can you tell me about the messaging for Tinnitus and what you think it means? 

What do you think you would do after reading that message about Tinnitus? 

Screen 6 (Tinnitus Friction) 

Can you tell me what this page is about? 

It says you're at the max for tinnitus (reads). Yeah, I guess yes, I mean what’s it really going to do? Can you? If it’s already maxed out is it BSing people that they have an opportunity to get an increase? 

My truth it I think it’s BS. If it’s telling you you’re maxed you know the person wouldn’t submit. But another person puts it through cause they’re stubborn and it turns out you're maxed out. It’d ask if you want an increase. If I did put yes I want an increase and I get it it’s not fair to those that took it off before because they didn’t click it because they were told it’s maxed out. If it’s telling you it's maxed out it should be maxed out. It’s not a good system. 

What is this text telling you? 

What do you think you would do next? 

I still feel strongly I'd ask for an increase. If I don’t meet any of this criteria I’d still say yes to see if it goes through. 

I'm going to see if I can get something (would still ask for an increase). 

This is the last screen for this prototype. Before we go to the next one, can you tell me if reading that information would influence your decision to file a claim for increase?  

Scenario 1A/Green: Review currently rated conditions - 15 minutes 

Screen 1 (Start) 

Do you have any questions before you start? 

Screen 2 (Authenticated Home)  

Talk me through what you would do on this screen if you wanted to learn more about your current condition ratings. 

Screen 3 (View my Rated Disabilities Screen) 

What is this screen telling you? What is your initial impression of it? 

It’s telling me. (Reads info.) Individual ratings broken down.  

What does this screen tell you about your conditions?  

What do you think about your eligibility for more benefits? 

Yeah I guess cause I’m not at 100 so. 

Which conditions could you get more compensation for?  

Uhm, now I'm seeing I'm maxed out. (Reads info.) Nothings saying you're maxed out so you can get it for any of them. 

 

(1A/Green only)  

What does the phrase ‘max scheduler rating’ mean to you? 

Would give you a chart about what you're maxed out at. Maybe the tinnitus is maxed out and that’s why it’s separated? 

What do you think would happen if you clicked on that triangle symbol? 

Instruct participant to expand the caret if they haven’t already 

What can you tell me about this explanation of maximum ratings? 

(Reads.) Basically telling ya you’re already at the max and you should get an increase anywho you would submit for an increase. If I feel strongly about a higher rating I'd submit it. If I don't, I won't submit it. 

 

(Both versions) 

What do you think you would do after reading the message about ratings at the highest level? 

What if your migraines had gotten worse - what do you think you could do? 

What do you think you might do here to potentially increase your overall rating? 

This is the last screen for this prototype. Before we go to the next one, can you tell me if reading that information would influence your decision to file a claim for increase?  

Compare prototypes 

Now that you’ve looked at the two different prototypes, can you tell me about the differences in how you experienced each of them? 

All the rating terms, which term is best? 

I don’t like the schedular rating, maximum possible sounds better and it’s telling you what the max you can possible, the highest, max. 

Explaining that - the yellow box vs the dropdown. Preferences? 

No, I think they were similar. They were fine either way. 

Did he like seeing the yellow alert box - did he prefer that styling? 

I like that one it was alert and it brought your attention oh wow it’s already at the max. It stood out. 

 

Between these two prototypes, which do you think would be more likely to influence your decision about whether or not to submit a claim for increase on Tinnitus or other conditions? 

I think the first one was easier. Just like seeing it and uhm being able to like tap on it and ask if you still wanted to submit it higher it was more user friendly. 

Thank-You and Closing - 5 minutes 

In general, I’d love to hear what do you think about your overall experience - being scheduled for this research session, participating in the research session. Could we have done anything differently/better? 

No, I think everything is good. It came through to schedule a time, got an email through the system and being able to choose a time. It worked and it was fine. Being able to participate and giving feedback is always good, is great. Looking forward to doing more, want to do more. 

Your feedback is so helpful to us as we continue to work on the site and make sure it really works for Veterans. I just want to check once more that you are still feeling good about us using your feedback or if you would like to redact anything we discussed today? 

No, one thing I didn't like. I wish you can get the max and things can go higher. Like a lot of people didn’t know you can put in a claim and you don’t know what you can get a claim for. Example someone has migraines and they take meds through the va and they didn’t know they can do a disability service connected. If a persons been seeing doctors for years there should be a thing asking if you want to back date your claim. It shouldn’t be when you do it, it should be protected from 10 years ago. I don’t know if that’s eligible or if you’re allowed to do that but a section put in a rating from documentations from years ago. Someone lost out on 10 years of benefits they should be getting.  

