# Conversation Guide 

Participant Info 

Participant # 16 (Allen) 

Scenarios / Yellow 1 - Green 1A - Blue 3 

Date / 10/16/2023 

Time / 3 – 4pm 

Sketch link 

Prototype link 

Intro - 5 minutes 

Warm-up Questions - 5 minutes 

Talk to me about your past experience using VA.gov? Was that with a rep or by yourself? 

I’ve had a very recent experience. One of my friends had it easier to use it. So far it seems ya know like it flows very well. There are a couple of hiccups, but so far it seems, it's a little better than it was before. 

Filing claims things like that. 

So I usually file claims myself then get the DAV involved. Or usually file a claim through them but they prefer you involve them after. 

Could you tell me about the types of benefits you are receiving from the VA at this time?  

Right now I’m getting 50% disability for sleep apnea. 

I’m technically receiving them for my knee and hypertension but it’s 0%. 

If they are getting disability compensation from the VA right now, ask: 

About how many conditions are you receiving benefits for? 

If you’re comfortable sharing this information, what are some of those conditions? 

Scenario 1/Yellow: Review currently rated conditions - 15 minutes 

Screen 1 (Start) 

Do you have any questions before you start? 

Screen 2 (Authenticated Home)  

Talk me through what you would do on this screen if you wanted to learn more about your current condition ratings. 

Screen 3 (View my Rated Disabilities Screen) 

What is this screen telling you? What is your initial impression of it? 

(Reads silently.) I mean so my impressions of the screen is giving me my combined rating. A lot of Veterans do not know how the ratings are designed. If you’re 50% disabled you’re 50% abled and a lot of people don’t understand that. To explain how the claims rates are adjusted for the combined rating. Other than that it looks great. 

What does this screen tell you about your conditions?  

It’s telling me for 3 of them it’s telling me I’m not at the highest, and the other 2 are at the highest. It’s telling me that I'm messed up here. It looks like he took an IED to the right side. 

What do you think about your eligibility for more benefits? 

Well I’m assuming that because it says asterisks you’re at the highest standard rating for migraine but it doesn't say that for these three. I’m probably not as messed up for hypertension, arthritis, and limitation of motion, but if I’m looking for an upgrade for migraines or hearing loss it’d be  a lost bet because I’m at the highest I can be. 

Which conditions could you get more compensation for?  

 

(1/Yellow only)  

What does the phrase ‘highest standard rating’ mean to you? 

I’m thinking that’s the highest you can be disabled, if you lose an arm you might be 10% or 20% disabled. 

What do you think would happen if you clicked that link? 

Instruct participant to click on the link if they haven’t already 

What can you tell me about this explanation for maximum schedular rating? 

It’s saying that even though I'm the highest there’s case by case basis I can get a rating increase if the developments are met. 

 

(Both versions) 

What do you think you would do after reading the message about ratings at the highest level? 

I mean the content is good and gives you a good explanation. Then it elaborates how you can go about it, and the criteria for going above are. 

What if your migraines had gotten worse - what do you think you could do? 

No because it says the highest standard rating. 

What do you think you might do here to potentially increase your overall rating? 

After reading this I would probably go to see what other people have used in the appeals and things like that. Specifically for unusual disability experiences. 

There’s websites, government websites you can go through. I do legal work by trade so I can get those. 

The things that are kind of low like arm limitation I’d try and get those increased. 

This is the last screen for this prototype. Before we go to the next one, can you tell me if reading that information would influence your decision to file a claim for increase?  

For arthritis I think I may be depending on the criteria for the higher rating. For tinnitus it’s at the highest standard. I'd have to look into what different standards are and things like that. 

It probably would, the message would tell me I’m limited and the criteria for it, it’s a double standard, it’ll have to be something not in the manual and I have to show other evidence it affects me. 

It probably would make me less likely to investigate tinnitus seriously and more likely to investigate arthritis and arm limitation. 

Scenario 1A/Green: Review currently rated conditions - 15 minutes 

Screen 1 (Start) 

Do you have any questions before you start? 

Screen 2 (Authenticated Home)  

Talk me through what you would do on this screen if you wanted to learn more about your current condition ratings. 

Screen 3 (View my Rated Disabilities Screen) 

What is this screen telling you? What is your initial impression of it? 

So this screen is telling me my combined disability rating is 70% and it’s telling me that I'm individually rated for conditions, situations, it says individual ratings at max schedular rating. I know that’s very technical for the people looking at it but being a mobile facing ad, the max schedular rating is too technical for the average Veteran. I like how there is information that does describe what you need and it says and bolded you need extra evidence. It lets me learn more about extra schedular ratings. 

What does this screen tell you about your conditions?  

What do you think about your eligibility for more benefits? 

Not knowing more about Alex’s situation and the evidence he has on hand I would shy away from the tinnitus and migraines. It's saying I'm at the highest rating the VA allows about special cases. It’ll be a headache going through the VA. I would more likely go after arthritis and right arm motion. 

Which conditions could you get more compensation for?  

 

(1A/Green only)  

What does the phrase ‘highest standard rating’ mean to you? 

What do you think would happen if you clicked on that triangle symbol? 

I would if I was looking for an increase in my tinnitus. It's something I'm trying to pursue. 

Instruct participant to expand the caret if they haven’t already 

What can you tell me about this explanation of maximum ratings? 

Differences between the yellow and green versions? 

It’s the same, but the previous page takes me to another page, this is a tab dropdown, this allows for easier flow, the other one allows the same thing on a different page and it’s a headache to go back. 

 

(Both versions) 

What do you think you would do after reading the message about ratings at the highest level? 

I would see what evidence I have and align what evidence with boards and appeals in the past. 

What if your migraines had gotten worse - what do you think you could do? 

What do you think you might do here to potentially increase your overall rating? 

I would focus on hypertension, arthritis and since my arthritis is already acting up I would try and pursue the higher rating because it’s acting up. I would be less likely to do arthritis and migraines, showing those to the average Veteran aren’t going to do without the DAV or attorney with them. 

This is the last screen for this prototype. Before we go to the next one, can you tell me if reading that information would influence your decision to file a claim for increase?  

This would influence my claim for tinnitus because I'm at the highest, and it’s 10%, and I have to show that extra evidence. It’s not something I would do on my own. This is something I would not do on my own. 

Scenario 3/Blue: Request CFI for Tinnitus with Friction - 15 minutes  

Screen 1 (Start) 

Do you have any questions before you start? 

Screen 2 (Veteran Details screen) 

As I mentioned before, this is fake data. You can imagine this is your personal information. Go ahead and show me how you would get started. 

Looks like you guys have my correct mailing address now. (Reads more.) 

​​Screen 3 (New or Increase) → Screen 4 (New or Increase)​ 

Talk me through what you would do on this screen. 

No comments. 

Screen 5 (Select conditions) 

What can you tell me about the conditions on this screen? 

I’m just going to do them all (would click ALL disabilities). 

Well they can just deny you even if it didn’t get worse, they can also test it too. It’s one of those kitchen sink type deals.  

No, it wasn’t, I’m thinking the average VA guy are going to click click click. 

The only two things are my arthritis and tinnitus I would click them even if it said I'm at the max because it has gotten worse. 

What do you think about your eligibility for more benefits? 

Can you tell me about the messaging for Tinnitus and what you think it means? 

On the tinnitus box it’s telling me I'm at my max which means I probably won’t get a higher rating. If it’s gotten worse I might get better medical attention. It's not just the rating, it's the medical attention involved. You just know it’s worse. 

What do you think you would do after reading that message about Tinnitus? 

Screen 6 (Tinnitus Friction) 

Can you tell me what this page is about? 

I think this is kinda like are you sure, it shouldn’t be there they said yes, this shouldn't be here you asked on the previous screen. Yes I’m sure. It’s (my conditions) bad. 

What is this text telling you?  

Cautionary, telling me you’re already here are you trying to confirm. It’s already confirming what I said on the previous screen and what it told me already. It would cause frustrations, you know confirm, confirm yes, I've already done that. 

I would click the dropdown (to get more information). 

This information is just reiterating what’s on the previous slides, do you really want to try this? 

What do you think you would do next? 

This is the last screen for this prototype. Before we go to the next one, can you tell me if reading that information would influence your decision to file a claim for increase?  

It would give me pause on this screen because it’s asking me to confirm it again and I don’t know why. It’s telling me I'm at the max and I need to show more work, but if it’s acting up I'm still going to go ahead with it. They’re not going to stop me. 

Compare prototypes 

Now that you’ve looked at the two different prototypes, can you tell me about the differences in how you experienced each of them? 

I would have preferred 2 better, 3 it seems like you have my information and you're asking the basic questions and you’re asking why you’re applying things like that. 

Yellow things like it’s more pages, this is the one you click something it takes you to another page. That I'm going back and forth. Green everything is contained on one page. If you wanted to find out about something it’ll drive down on the page you’re on. It flows a little bit better. 

Did the grouping make a difference? 

No, one is saying hey you’re at the max. I don’t think separating them out makes them any different. It’s just as effective to say hey you’re at the highest. It’s just as effective. Yellow multiple pages, green all is on one page. 

More info placement? 

(Having the link) in each box works (Yellow version). Nothing wrong with that. 

Probably, I say it probably depends on the age of the person, but I prefer Green. If I was making a product for Veterans I’d do it in the boxes (Yellow). 

Phrases which do you prefer? 

I would say highest standard rating is better, maximum possible and then you throw you can do this and this and get more. Highest standard is standard, you can get more if you do xyz. 

 

Between these two prototypes, which do you think would be more likely to influence your decision about whether or not to submit a claim for increase on Tinnitus or other conditions? 

What do you mean influence? It can go either way. 

Yellow would probably, you know, allow me to go ahead and file your claim. You know this is what your ratings are. 

Green would say file your claim to me. 

Blue is ok, I get what you’re going for. The information how it's presented you’re filling out the information that would go out on the form and it works also. That’s one thing the VA has: this one has the confirmation page. That was weird. Yeah the confirmation page would influence me hey are you sure you want to do that? Usually they don’t ask you twice, it makes me feel like i need to review something before I do it. 

 Yes it would dissuade him. 

Participant is a lawyer in Wisconsin and thinking of going into VA law. 

I mean I know it personally because I had to investigate it, the ratings are convoluted and complex. The way they’re calculated it’s a secret. Everyone is looking at different formulas. You can lose different parts of your body, range in your elbow and they’re rated differently than a loss of a complete arn. It’s not put out there for people. Manual people can click and it’ll say you have loss of this. 

When he was in the navy they called him the sea lawyer - and that’s how he got into law. 

You want to know what you’re getting into; that’s a contract! (Response to reading terms and conditions online.) 

Thank-You and Closing - 5 minutes 

In general, I’d love to hear what do you think about your overall experience - being scheduled for this research session, participating in the research session. Could we have done anything differently/better? 

So sitting on the other side of the seat from where you guys were it’d be easier to do updates. I got a simple update 3 days before, update people 6 to 8 hours before right in the morning right when they wake up and you catch them and they’re in the car. (Wants same day reminders.) 

Allow to cancel same day. Sometimes stuff comes up and sometimes people need to cancel and they should be able to do so by email. 

Your feedback is so helpful to us as we continue to work on the site and make sure it really works for Veterans. I just want to check once more that you are still feeling good about us using your feedback or if you would like to redact anything we discussed today? 

