# Conversation Guide 

Participant Info 

Participant # 14  

Scenarios / Yellow 1 - Green 1A - Purple 2 

Date / 10/16/2023 

Time / 11am 

Sketch link 

Prototype link 

Intro - 5 minutes 

Warm-up Questions - 5 minutes 

Talk to me about your past experience using VA.gov? Was that with a rep or by yourself? 

(Big sigh.) I have multiple levels of using VA.gov, I am a volunteer claims officer at DAV as well. I use VA.gov 2 to 3 days a week to pull forms. I use form finder to pull claims. Some of the things for VA.gov for Veterans for getting different packages, memorial things, survivors. (As well as) from personal experience from my own claim. Most of my own claim was before we could do stuff digitally online, some of the updates were done online. I’m a frequent flier to VA.gov. 

I’ve used DAV primarily, I did have 1 claim I preferred a woman and did a county representative for that one. 

Could you tell me about the types of benefits you are receiving from the VA at this time?  

I am 100% service connected with rating S and dependent spouse. 

If they are getting disability compensation from the VA right now, ask: 

About how many conditions are you receiving benefits for? 

(Counts on fingers.) Ten? 

If you’re comfortable sharing this information, what are some of those conditions? 

PTSD with MST, knee condition, fibromyalgia, GI issues, GERD, no that one got denied, that was denied, those are the ones I remember off the top of my head. 

Scenario 1/Yellow: Review currently rated conditions - 15 minutes 

Screen 2 (Authenticated Home)  

Talk me through what you would do on this screen if you wanted to learn more about your current condition ratings. 

 

Screen 3 (View my Rated Disabilities Screen) 

What is this screen telling you? What is your initial impression of it? 

Unrealistic. (Reads.) Hypertension, that person is half dead if they have 30% rating on hypertension, standard rating is 0% service connected because the bottom number has to be under 100 on a regular basis. Standard I’ve seen is 10% and that’s someone on 2 medications and the bottom number is still 100. I’ve never seen 30%. 

(User comment that the percentages aren’t realistic based on their experience.) 

Migraines is at the highest, you say that. (Reads more.) 

What does this screen tell you about your conditions?  

What do you think about your eligibility for more benefits? 

You can’t get. For tinnitus and migraines there is no more compensation for those disabilities. You'd have to go off a secondary condition. If you’re getting 50% in migraines it's impairing your work. If you’re a claims officer and people come in with tinnitus and they’re crying and want to increase their tinnitus. 

At work she apologizes and explains to the Veterans that they have to look at a secondary condition such as mental health. Such as depression and anxiety. There’s not higher compensation for benefits they can get; they're maxed out. 

Which conditions could you get more compensation for?  

 

(1/Yellow only)  

What does the phrase ‘highest standard rating’ mean to you? 

That means that it's the highest scheduled rating for a condition. That no matter how much worse it is you’re not going to get higher than that percentage. Tinnitus and arthritis are maxed out. The highest you can get for tinnitus is 10%, and there’s no higher rating for that. So some Veterans understand that, some don't. It clearly states you're at the highest rating for migraines. I don’t know if I click that if it’ll explain if it’s the highest you get for it?  

What do you think would happen if you clicked that link? 

Instruct participant to click on the link if they haven’t already 

What can you tell me about this explanation for maximum schedular rating? 

(Silently read.) That’s a good explanation of it. I can tell you the way the laws are written that explains it well, it gives people the idea they can get more and they can’t. The percentage of people getting an extra schedular rating increase when it’s maxed out is slim to none. (Reads.) That’s calculated into the migraines. Your migraines are so bad you’re missing work. You’re in the hospital getting treated. You have 15 - 20 migraines a month and it’s causing employment barriers and it’s included in the benefits to get a 50% service connection to migraines. 

That’s a great definition. It’s well done. 

 

(Both versions) 

What do you think you would do after reading the message about ratings at the highest level? 

As an uneducated veteran reading that explanation I'm saying I’m missing and can't complete work. I might be able to get an extra rating for tinnitus. Now it doesn’t explain what kind of documentation you need. Is that the employer saying I'm missing work? Is that someone saying they’ve done xyz treatment and it’s getting worse? Could I find what I need as evidence? Some things do, some things don’t. Who do you go to for that evidence? Is it your doctor? That’s one way. If it’s your employer because you’re missing work, that's another way. Some of it gets into that confusion zone of what is evidence and how do I submit it? 

What if your migraines had gotten worse - what do you think you could do? 

What do you think you might do here to potentially increase your overall rating? 

Uhm, if i’m putting in for the arthritis and the tinnitus and I’ve read that explanation on extra schedular then I’m maybe going to talk to my employer saying give me evidence that I’m missing work? Maybe I’ve lost my job because I’ve been out sick so much. So as an uneducated veteran that might be what I try to do. As an educated Veteran I’d get full documentation to try and get it but I mean I’d look at my degenerative arthritis and limitation of motion but again if I’m looking for a higher percentage I need a lot ot get any of this up and none of these are going to help me get much higher than an 80% on what’s sitting here. 

This is the last screen for this prototype. Before we go to the next one, can you tell me if reading that information would influence your decision to file a claim for increase?  

As an uneducated veteran I would file a claim for increase. As an educated veteran I would look at a mental health condition secondary to this. To get my stuff get a higher rating. I’d go for individual unemployability that’s not mentioned here. 

Scenario 1A/Green: Review currently rated conditions - 15 minutes 

Screen 1 (Start) 

Do you have any questions before you start? 

Screen 2 (Authenticated Home)  

Talk me through what you would do on this screen if you wanted to learn more about your current condition ratings. 

Screen 3 (View my Rated Disabilities Screen) 

What is this screen telling you? What is your initial impression of it? 

I like this one on the fact that the ones that have room for increase there and you know that the two that are maxed are separated. Going through and reading through the extra stuff and getting the full definition still doesn't tell me to make sure to upload the evidence to support an extra schedular rating. It doesn’t tell me what that evidence might look like. I like that it’s separated; these are what you have room to get increased on. These are likely not going to get any higher. 

What does this screen tell you about your conditions?  

What do you think about your eligibility for more benefits? 

Which conditions could you get more compensation for?  

 

(1A/Green only)  

What does the phrase ‘highest standard rating’ mean to you? 

I think that’s clearer for the Veterans to understand the maximum schedular. They don't have 50% in the first three and 60% in the second and they ask why aren’t I being rated 100%? I don’t know what a good word for you've maxed your condition in this category is. These conditions have this to this thing, some can be rated 100% and some can’t. There are some conditions that have an all or nothing service connection, there's 0 and 100 and you get all or nothing. You get non compensatable for it. You get treated for that and it has to meet this criteria and it’s hard for Veterans to understand. Lymphoma is an example, is 0 or 100 unless you're getting treatment. You're diagnosed and you have something that can cause your death but you don’t get a 10% rating for that. You know if they are going to this screen no they haven’t maxed it out, but their rate of increase is not something that’s going to be easy for them to understand. Very seldom are you going to see the VA change any of that and some of it is outside this scope of study is due to other limitations. Yeah. I like that you separated this way and it’s more realistic I’m not going to win anything. 

Anything in the explanation that made her feel like she could continue. 

The words that show me that I might be able to do more. The rating scheduler does not - to qualify for an extra schedular rating you must you must show the rating schedular (reads the copy). If I’m looking at migraines at 50% and they're the ones that are dragging me down that's my highest rating. I’ve missed work. I'm in the hospital. I'm missing work 2 - 3 times a week for the migraines. I’ve lost my job. They're not adequately describing, but in the rating decision, gets back to the Veterans rating, it says you're at this category because it impacts your employment. People don't understand tinnitus or degrees of tinnitus. I’ve had people literally call me crying. I can't sleep, no one understands how bad it is in my head. You know you're half driving yourself crazy and you can’t get anyone to understand it. There’s nothing that says tinnitus can make you half make you crazy. You can write all that up you can have people say that but again what other evidence are you showing, no one can hear your tinnitus. 

[At DAV]  no claims are frivolous, but putting in a claim that isn’t going to go anywhere we consider a frivolous claim. Tinnitus is a frivolous claim, because VA has never given an increase on it. But if you secondary mental health to it they’ll give it every time. Extra schedular rating goes into employability or secondary condition not the condition you have. 

What do you think would happen if you clicked on that triangle symbol? 

Instruct participant to expand the caret if they haven’t already 

What can you tell me about this explanation of maximum ratings? 

 

(Both versions) 

What do you think you would do after reading the message about ratings at the highest level? 

I might do the tinnitus and it says that and I’m not working with someone it doesn’t say I can’t get an increase on it. It does say rarely happens but can happen. I’m going to say I haven’t touched my claim since 2013. Maybe I have enough evidence that it's bad and they’re going to believe me. (She’d submit the claim. Nothing stopping her.) 

What if your migraines had gotten worse - what do you think you could do? 

What do you think you might do here to potentially increase your overall rating? 

This is the last screen for this prototype. Before we go to the next one, can you tell me if reading that information would influence your decision to file a claim for increase?  

Depending on the Veteran I would read that stuff and go, “I don't know what evidence they want since I'm saying it’s worse. I’m not maxed out on these other things, maybe I just put those in.” I might decide not to do the tinnitus. 

Between the two do you have a preference? 

I like this one (Green) better. It’s set up better for Veterans that don’t understand the claims process. These can be increased, these not so much. 

Scenario 2/Purple: Request CFI for Tinnitus - 15 minutes  

Screen 1 (Start) 

Do you have any questions before you start? 

Screen 2 (Veteran Details screen) 

As I mentioned before, this is fake data. You can imagine this is your personal information. Go ahead and show me how you would get started. 

(Reads silently. Hit continue.) 

​​Screen 3 (New or Increase) → Screen 4 (New or Increase)​ 

Talk me through what you would do on this screen. 

(Reads.) That’s a good one to have in there that makes a difference (talking about checkbox). 

Screen 5 (Select conditions) 

If you were going to choose to increase, which conditions would you increase? 

What can you tell me about the conditions on this screen? 

Uhm, that’s gotten worse. Oh I like that. That you show the max possible rating for the other ones. Like that arthritis max is 20%, the hypertension is 60%, I’d think that's a dead man walking with hypertension. Or they’ve had several strokes. You are at the max for these disabilities. Ok you’ve told me what to do if I’m at the max. Ok. You know adequately describe your symptoms and evidence. VA math being very funny for some of them - when they get their package - let’s say when I get my 20% on arthritis it’s only going to move my 70% 1 point and it’s only 75% until I get to 80%. Even if I increase all these I might only get to 80%. It’s that much harder once you get a rating and scheduler. Veterans don’t understand that. 

What do you think about your eligibility for more benefits? 

What does the phrase ‘Maximum Possible Rating’ mean to you? 

It gives a realistic expectation. Some Veterans have deep dived rating charts and are educated. If I’m just going to put in a couple things I know my tinnitus and arthritis have gotten worse, now you’re telling me max possible rating is 10% and my max is 20% but my limit of motion and hypertension have higher, if I can get a higher rating I might click all 3 to see if I can get all of them. You’re not asking for evidence. It’s the understanding of the system. I think the max possible rating is a good thing to show though. 

What is this text telling you? What do you think you would do after reading it? 

I might just look at and go, that's the max they’re going to give me. I have that evidence and I have the chance to get the higher percentage on. I might select the other 2 to get a higher rating. 

This is the last screen for this prototype. Before we go to the next one, can you tell me if reading that information would influence your decision to file a claim for increase?  

I think so. I’m thinking of the Veteran who comes into my office and things have gotten worse and I want to do more. 

Compare prototypes 

Now that you’ve looked at the two different prototypes, can you tell me about the differences in how you experienced each of them? 

Feedback on explanations? 

I think Green explained it the best with it separated and saying here these are maxed out. Again I do claims work about 3 days a week and answer the phone 7 out of 7 days a week. And have a hard time getting Veterans to understand this is the most you’re going to get for this condition. I like that you’ve separated these are the max and outside telling them do they have anything else? You can’t write asking if they have a secondary condition due to law. If someone walks in and asks to increase their claim that's all the VA can do. On the website we can let them know they can increase. Many at the VA, in fear of losing their jobs, will tell the Veterans that they can submit, they might not get it, but they can do it. 

VA is not allowed to say to add a secondary condition. Not allowed to ask about other medical conditions. 

We used to share the office with BVA employee that did claims and he literally would tell the Veterans he can do the education and death benefits and go to DAV to file a claim. Now I know one of the employees I can’t put anything in unless the Veteran tells me to put it in. I don't know where the policy is and it’s contradictory. You can’t say something about a secondary condition and ask if you (the Veteran) have this. I’m wondering about hearing loss. I’ve seen it - their first one was VA and they have tinnitus and they don’t ask about hearing. They go to her and she asks about hearing. Well the VA never asked about it. 

Placement on max info on purple. 

Likes that it has the explanation. Gives them it might be a long shot but I might be able to win it. 

That’s good because I've gone that. Before I hit continue or finish later I finish what I'm doing with that. 

 

Between these two prototypes, which do you think would be more likely to influence your decision about whether or not to submit a claim for increase on Tinnitus or other conditions? 

This one because it’s giving me what my max possible rating is. Because again if I’ve been through the VA system this gives me a better idea of what I’m doing.  

DAV is who she works for. 

Really likes the last one, it really tells me what to do with my claim. If I want to do an increase because I don't have someone nearby it gives me a realistic expectation. A lot aren't going to be realistic; they want the max for everything. 

I would go well they’re not going to give it to me and take that off (on Purple). 

Thank-You and Closing - 5 minutes 

In general, I’d love to hear what do you think about your overall experience - being scheduled for this research session, participating in the research session. Could we have done anything differently/better? 

I think what you’re doing is great. One thing the company should think about. I’m 100% total and permanent. Short of getting cancer I'm not opening my file for VA review ever again. I work on claims all the time. 

Was added to the research list at a DAV conference. 

What are we doing for people who submit and accidentally lower their claim? 

Her concern at the end. 

Your feedback is so helpful to us as we continue to work on the site and make sure it really works for Veterans. I just want to check once more that you are still feeling good about us using your feedback or if you would like to redact anything we discussed today? 

All good. 

