# Conversation Guide

Max CFI explorations Veteran research 

PX - Date - Time 

Participant #:  15

Moderator:  Kim

Notetaker:  Christine

Observers:  Sudeepti, Eva

Consent to record:  Yes

Warm-up Questions 

Talk to me about your past experience using VA.gov?  

Medically discharged – didn't know about benefits at first 

Filed claims, rejected for first few years, went through appeals – currently waiting to submit another unless the judge comes back with 100% - also used it for my mortgage – filing wherever I can. 

Did you work with a representative or group to help you?  

I had a VSO at the beginning, but when I went in for my first appeal I fired him and have been going solo ever since 

Could you tell me about the types of benefits you are receiving from the VA at this time?  

60% service connected disability – hopefully going up any moment 

Health care services 

Mortgage 

If they are getting disability compensation from the VA right now, ask: 

About how many conditions are you receiving benefits for? 

5 now – 6 more on appeal 

If you’re comfortable sharing this information, what are some of those conditions? 

Stomach condition (gastritis), 30% anxiety related to medical condition, 10% tinnitus, throat inflammation, etc 

Scenario Purple  

This is a pretty familiar page 

Veteran Details screen 

x 

New or Increase screen 

x 

Select conditions screen 

If we’re exploring it, I might as well check on it (Tinnitus) 

I had experience as a broadcast journalist and had videos of me not using hearing protection but I still had to fight for Tinnitus. It’s annoying that 10% is all you can get – mine ebbs and flows – there is only 1 rating for it and it doesn’t make sense to me. Sometimes its debilitating and I’ve been to the ER for it and sometimes I get vertigo – maybe I need to file a secondary claim. 

If you were going to submit a request for increase on any of these conditions, which conditions would you choose? 

x 

What can you tell me about the conditions on this screen? 

x 

What do you think about your eligibility for more benefits? 

Hypertension, arthritis and right arm you’re eligible for more – it's nice they have the 2 lists separated – it will draw my attention and make it clear that there is something different about these two lists 

What does the phrase ‘Maximum Possible Rating’ mean to you? 

Highest you can get – there are a certain number of ratings for each one – if there was something that started the process for each of the conditions to see the rating possibilities. Knowing the next possible rating would be helpful to know what the next level – but I don’t want to clutter the page. For those of us with other ratings it will get crowded. 

What do you think about your eligibility for more benefits for your degenerative arthritis?  

x 

Expando: What is this text telling you? What do you think you would do after reading it? 

I didn’t see this without you mentioning it. 

Explanation – This is a good point, in my particular case – I don’t think I can get more. I wouldn’t hold out hope for higher than 10 for Tinnitus, but other conditions I might go for it. I don’t see the harm in re-applying for tinnitus even though I’ve never seen higher than 10%  

This is the last screen for this prototype. Before we go to the next one, can you tell me if reading that information would influence your decision to file a claim for increase?  

No I wouldn’t start the process but knowing I’m already at my max, I wouldn’t have checked Tinnitus. 

I’m confused why I can check it in the first place – but I don’t think I can do anything. Maybe if there is stronger evidence? But I don’t know why you want to submit it – the golden rule is to not mess with what they’ve given you. Sadly I’ve done a lot of this and so I want to give back doing research studies like this one.  

Based on my own history I’d be reluctant, but after reading this text I might be inclined that there is something else there worth trying for – there is always a fear it could get reduced. It took me 5 years to get the service connection, I’m paranoid about losing that. I’m waiting to hit the 10 year mark – but based on what is written here, it’s as strong as it can be.  

Things to watch for: 

Does the intervention discourage them from claiming tinnitus?  

Yes and no – the explanation seemed to make them more confident in trying 

Do they find knowing the maximum possible rating for all conditions helpful/useful?  

x 

Scenario Blue  

x 

Veteran Details screen 

x 

New or Increase screen 

x 

Screen 5 (Select conditions) 

**He noticed Migraines wasn’t listed at the max even though the it is at the max** 

I will have done some research before coming here so I would know going in what my condition maxes 

What can you tell me about the conditions on this screen? 

I would just think this is a master list of my conditions – but with that max message I would think ‘don’t bother’ - it’s a clean list and I like that. 

What do you think about your eligibility for more benefits? 

For migraines – I wouldn’t think there is an issue, unless I know the schedular – especially if I see this on the other line (Tinnitus) 

Kim – what if you heard you’re at the max after the fact? 

I’d probably have frustration – if the next page told me the criteria before I’ve committed to the process. Particularly if there was a note about secondary or aggravated conditions, but maybe there’s something else I can apply for  - less disheartening – if I get that message after many screens that would be worse. 

If you had a drop down with that text here that would be better 

Can you tell me about the messaging for Tinnitus and what you think it means? 

It stands out to see the maximum listed there 

What do you think you would do after reading that message about Tinnitus? 

The message would discourage me from going forward. To me , that is just a No – don’t bother 

 

Screen 6 (Tinnitus Friction) 

Can you tell me what this page is about? 

High visible alert – its good at this point but it’s confusing -  

Expando: 

x 

What is this text telling you?  

It’s telling me you can’t get it – it’s not obvious there’s more information. There may still be a reason to do that – I might miss the little arrow off to the side.  

What do you think you would do next? 

I’d go for No cuz I would think I couldn’t do anything about that 

This is the last screen for this prototype. Before we go to the next one, can you tell me if reading that information would influence your decision to file a claim for increase?  

X Yeah I’d probably walk away without filing at this stage 

Things to watch for: 

Does the intervention discourage them from claiming tinnitus?  

x 

Compare prototypes 

Now that you’ve looked at the two different prototypes, can you tell me about the differences in how you experienced each of them? 

I liked the 2nd one – seeing I was at the maximum caught my attention more – but I liked seeing what the maximum was like on the first section 

I don’t know if the VA always posts the schedular rating but being able to see that would be helpful 

I usually know exactly what I’m doing when I go here – I want the clean, streamlined look. It already feels like a lengthy process. If I know what I’m doing, I want a streamlined approach. My dad is terrified that nobody will take me seriously, regardless of documentation. We see that among the Vietnam Vets.  

I’d pick the first one (purple) - want more information, I’d rather have more info even if it slows the process down a bit.   

 

Which wording choice did you prefer - Maximum Schedular Rating, Maximum Standard Rating, Maximum Possible Rating or Maximum Rating? 

Maximum Possible Rating – I’m not gunna remember the different terms – there’s no way to misinterpret that phrase – its the highest you’ll ever get with this condition 

 

Explanation? 

The yellow caught my attention more – but I like the phrase – the yellow was harsh phrasing. We’re not telling you Not to apply – read this. Its not very eye catching bc its already confusing to navigate. The language needs to be more informational, less harsh. 

 

Between these two prototypes, which do you think would be more likely to influence your decision about whether or not to submit a claim for increase on Tinnitus or other conditions? 

If I had seen the expando, that would increase my chance to apply for tinnitus – I will do it until I run into a roadblock. I think this one will increase my chance to apply for Tinnitus, and the other (Blue) is less likely cuz of the harshness 

You could put secondary service connections – it may be a hard battle to prove, but I’m not easily deterred by rejection. 90% has been rejected so far – If someone asked me if I should, Id definitely tell them to do it but for my own sake I would not because of my experience. 

 

Thank-You and Closing - 5 minutes 

Feedback on overall experience? 

Overall pretty good – if I don’t get that email, all the availability is gone – many of the past ones, it sends me the wrong consent form. I’ve never been able to get the consent forms. I get a follow up email – then I get a link I can really follow. Consent form issues – this is a different studies. I’m not gunna give people a hard time about things cuz I know how studies go, but for some reason the consent form doesn’t work out.  

 

Any redactions? 

No 

