# Bi-weekly sync: Sitewide Content / CMS Content

<details><summary>About this meeting</summary>

- Tuesday 2:30pm ET 
- Meeting owner: Clarence Maeng
- Facilitator: Denise Eisner

</details>

<details><summary>Parking lot</summary>
 </details>

**## December 14, 2021
## Priorities for VA team
- Establish baseline metrics (Danielle)
- **Hubs** -- How are the hubs performing? How we are going to base success? I’ve been looking at Hubs: digging into funnels, paths, etc. Ongoing comprehension testing.Structured content: talking about chatbot where content is scraped from Drupal. Don’t want to have to rewrite content.
- What belongs where: where does content belong (benefits vs Resources & Support)
...Beth: why was CMS team brought on? Strategy sat with us before. We’ve been in react mode up to now. 
...Kevin: same here, chasing products and not finding common foundations in content strategy. Ex: health services taxonomy that has things other than services. Taxonomy is a foundational organizing principle for all the products.
Quality: once we have more authors, how do we retain quality? Some have content backgrounds, others don’t. We use checklists of basics before articles get published. There’s room for collaboration on templates for types of articles. Example: “squishy template”. Is it guidance or planning or review?**
...Suzanne: measuring good content? Beth: no but use the checklist. Next step is to quantify the quality of the product (used internally by content team).We haven’t used these lists with the Vet Centers.
Beth: we were guinea pigs for CMS and ran into constraints like character counts so we have experience of creating articles using the templates. Tried to use multiple FAQ but there were character count. Would there be a review process to help author use correct template? Learn the challenges faced by new authors.
Governance - doing a pilot with VHA to start working through what a planning group would look like
Kevin: need to figure out governance structure
- Translation: new law passed. Danielle represents this team.
- Training for authors
- Community of practice for authors (MFA style model): to get ready for Resources
- **Workflow:** Beth: we may need an override for authors who are not content designers
**FAQs** - Danielle: we were not involved in R&S that uses FAQs. 
Danielle: sounds like we’re in same place, with thinking about foundational issues. Bring Mickey into this conversation.
...Denise to add Mikki Northuis (IA) to invite)

## November 30, 2021
* Resources and Support
  * Foundational work that goes across Benefits Hubs, will want to coordinate across all affected teams
* Reusability of content, how to use content across products most effectively
  * Epic https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/issues/21112 
  * Issue https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/issues/31912
  * Might want to start with a content audit, similar to the audit that was recently done for the right rail
    * Helptext: may be waiting for Design System work, but what might be blocking?
    * Q4 goal was to align on table guidance, but CMS hasn’t gotten to it yet
    * Could Sitewide Content support in the next 4 weeks? They will think about who would be the right person and get back to us
    * Want to make sure it aligns with the style guide
    * https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-cms/issues/2932
  * Design Council - run by Kevin Hoffman, with representatives from all workstreams, looking at experimental design patterns
    * Design System team channel has the notes from there
    * #vsp-design-system
  * Accordions: when to use
    * Sitewide Content is putting together when accordions are good to use
    * https://design.va.gov/components/accordions
    * https://design.va.gov/components/accordions#when-to-use-accordions
    * Has there been any research done around this to date? And if so how can CMS Content get access?
  * Components that are being used across multiple products, how do we coordinate across all the various stakeholders? To keep eyes on change management
    * VAMC product as an example where accordions have been leveraged heavily
    * When to use guidance rather than rules, when to lock down in the CMS versus heavily discourage yet allow
    * Currently 30 content types and only 3 that allow editors to go freestyle
* Danielle talking with Natalie of Design System team in regards to Design System for Drupal
  * Wanting to hone in on consistency
  * Connecting CMS design system with content style guide
* Workflows / notifications is big priority for Dave for Q1 2022 with translation implications
* Most recent demo has work that translation team just did

## November 16, 2021
* initial questions:
  * How do y’all organize? More or less as consultants?
    * Peggy? Selina? Mikki?
  * What are the main problems y’all are trying to solve?
    * https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/blob/master/products/content/benefit-hubs/optimize-hubs/problem-brief.md
    * Main “Hubs”
    * Resources and Support product
    * Search
    * Legacy Teamsite content that needs to get migrated into hubs
    * Miscellaneous (chatbot, localization, more…)
    * Reusable content, patterns
  * How could we get visibility into your roadmap?
  * What are some ways that our team could support y’all?
    * What does ongoing collaboration look like?
    * Coming up and enforcing shared standards (e.g. 6641)
    * Taking their ideas and scaling for the enterprise
  * Goals of the Friday sync:
    * Agree on a cadence for collaboration
  * How to move away from a page centered view of content to a model that supports scaling and aligns with CMS structures
  * Want to do a roadmapping exercise around R&S / search
  * Want to clarify when to use certain products
  * Facilities content
    * Sitewide Crew is in the process of reorganizing to figure out where this would sit
    * Facilities Team would own for now
  * Content style guide
    * Collaboration points
    * Who owns / drives? A: Sitewide Content team does (Beth and Danielle)
      * Intake through their slack channel?
      * Buttons and action links, link labels, would like to specify
      * How could we distinguish between source of truth (CMS KB or style guide)?
      * How can we protect editors from themselves?
      * Guide towards plain language
    * Bi-weekly sync to include Mikki
    * Q1 planning will be dependent on OCTO-DE changes
    * Centralized content debrief for Sitewide Content folks
