# Sign in Service Postman Collection
SiS features a [Postman Collection](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team-sensitive/blob/master/teams/vsp/teams/Identity/Sign%20In%20Service/sis_postman_v1.json) that provides routes for both cookie-based & API-based authentication.

# Authenticating with SiS & Postman

## Localhost authentication
The SiS Postman collection cannot perfectly imitate a web browser - in particulr the initial authorization with a CSP must be performed in a web browser due to the necessity of completing various web forms. In order to use the Postman collection begin with the following steps:
1. Make sure that your local instance of `vets-api` (localhost:3000) is running and `vets-website` (localhost:3001) is NOT, as the latter will automatically call the `/token` endpoint at the end of the callback process, consuming the auth_code that is needed for use in Postman.
2. Navigate in your web browser to the `/authorize` endpoint generated by Postman. It is critical that the `code_challenge` is either the same as Postman's saved variable or generated from a `code_verifier` that you have access to in order for later token request to work:

    `localhost:3000/v0/sign_in/authorize?type=logingov&acr=min&client_id=web&code_challenge=JNkFflCkxk1K6gQUf23P_5Ctl_T65_xkkOU_y-Cc2XI=&code_challenge_method=S256`
3. Complete the CSP authentication and find the `callback` call that `vets-api` makes to `vets-website` at the end of the authentication process. This can either be done in your web browser or in Postman via the [Postman Interceptor](https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/postman-interceptor/aicmkgpgakddgnaphhhpliifpcfhicfo?hl=en) plugin:

    `http://localhost:3001/auth/login/callback/?code=37349963-776e-4e39-aa86-2369da43b51a&type=logingov`
4. Copy the `code` URL parameter into your Postman SiS collection variables as the new `auth_code` and save the variables file. If you were using a newly generated `code_challenge` for the `/authorize` call you'll need to update the `code_verifier` variable as well.
5. You should now be able to use Postman to make a `/token` call, passing the `auth_code` and receiving a set of tokens that Postman will save to make further calls. Postman will also automatically update tokens for `/refresh` calls and wipe them for `/logout`, `/revoke`, and `/revoke_all` calls.

## Dev & Staging authentication
Interacting with dev & staging SiS through Postman is largely the same as the process on localhost; you will still need to authenticate through an `/authorize` request with a `code_challenge` that you have the corresponding `code_verifier` to, then copy the `code` passed to the frontend `/callback` route into Postman to receive your tokens. In addition, the following changes will need to be made to the preceding workflow:

1. The SiS Postman `vets_api_env` variable must be set to `https://{dev|staging}-api.va.gov` - note the necessary `https` scheme.
2. In order to prevent the vets-website frontend from calling the `/token` endpoint immediately and rendering the copied `code` useless you must prevent the request from sending in your browser's devtools: block `{dev|staging}-api.va.gov/v0/sign_in_token`
