# P11: CuraPatient Conversation Guide August 2025
- Date: Aug 8, 2025
- Moderator: Nina Anusavice
- Notetaker: Alyssa Li

## Intro - 5 minutes

1. Thanks for joining us today! My name is [moderator] and we have our notetaker on for taking notes.
2. I also have a couple other colleagues in the Zoom waiting room who would like to observe and take notes. But before we get to them...
3. Today we're going to talk about answering health questionnaires that your VA physician may have sent you to prepare for your medical appointment.
4. Before we start, a few things I want to mention:
5. **This entire session should take about [an hour]**. I want to be sure not to keep you much longer, so I may occasionally prompt you with the next question or topic.
6. In this session, we want to hear your honest opinions. We are not testing your ability. We just want to improve these tools to better meet Veterans' needs. I will not be offended by any opinions you express, and I welcome your feedback.
7. You'll be interacting with a demo tool. This is a demo tool that may look and function like the live site but since it's a demo, none of your actions will affect your actual VA healthcare.
8. If for any reason and at any time you want to stop the session, please let me know.
9. Perigean did ask for your consent to allow observers, but I want to be sure before we get going. Are you okay with a couple of additional observers during this session?
    - If no: Use Slack to kindly ask the observers to leave the Zoom.
    - If yes: Admit observers.
10. Then, ask the notetaker and observers to give a brief, camera-on, introduction, like their first name and position with VA.gov. (This is meant to humanize the interaction of observation for the participant)
11. Once complete, ask notetaker and observers to turn off their cameras for the remainder of the session to save bandwidth.
12. Are you comfortable if I record my screen and audio as we talk today?
    - We use the recordings to confirm that we have captured your opinions accurately. The recordings are destroyed after we complete the analysis, and none of your comments will be attributed to you directly.
    - We either report findings out in groups (i.e., 5 out of 10 participants said this) or if we want to quote you directly, we take away any identifying information and give you a participant ID, like P7. Knowing that, are you comfortable if I record my screen and audio as we talk today?
    - If yes: Once I start recording, I am going to confirm that you are okay with me recording this session once more.

**Start recording**

I have started recording. I'd like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record my screen and the audio as we talk today?

## First Task: Warm-up questions – 3 minutes

1. Have you ever filled health questionnaires that you received from the VA provider either at your appointment or through email or text?
    - If so, can you tell me about your experience?
    - If you received health questionnaires via email or text, what devices have you used to respond to the questionnaires?
        - Did you use any accessibility features that are native to the device such as the Voiceover or Zoom?
        - What was your experience using that device to respond to the questionnaire?
        - Did you experience difficulties with completing the questionnaire?

**Doesn't recall doing them. Gets surveys from the scheduling department about how the scheduling went. Hasn't chosen to respond to those because they don't have any issues with the scheduling department.**

## Second Task: Log-in screen - 10 minutes
**Notetaker:** Please note what browser is being used. There are 4 questionnaires; note which questionnaire branching logic they follow, if the questions and subsequent screens make sense, inconsistencies or awkward content, and any comments a participant shares without prompting from the moderator.

**Using Brave version of Chrome browser on laptop.**

1. Now, we are going to pretend that your doctor emailed you some health questionnaires for you to complete before your upcoming appointment.
2. Some of the questions will be familiar to you as you answered them before while others may not.
3. As you read each screen, please think aloud.
4. And I’ll ask you a few questions on each screen before you move on through the prototype.
5. Just a reminder-this just a prototype and your answer to questions will not affect you or your benefits in any way.
6. What device are you using today?
7. In the Zoom chat, located at the X part of your screen, I’m going to send you a link to a questionnaire tool along with a fictitious date of birth and a last name, then I’ll ask to share screen, but don’t click on that link just yet.
8. Can you share your screen located at X. 
9. I’m sending the links and credentials in your Zoom chat now. Do you see them? Great.

    - CuraPatient link: 
    - Log-in credentials: 

10. Now, I’ll ask you to click on the link.


**User sees a Login Screen**     

11. What are your first impressions after opening the link?  
12. Please answer the questions and move on.

**Text is very small on this screen, just like for P8. Probably using big monitor.**

**On first page: what is this? I don't see any questionnaires on it. I see clinical reminders. I don't really know what a clinical reminder is.**

**Tries clicking on first reminder, but nothing happens**

**Mouses over whole page, but doesn't click anything else**
**Hits Home button. Doesn't look like anything's happening there. Was expecting to see a dashboard or something.**
**Tries clicking other reminders, but again nothing happens. Says they look like links because when they mouse over, they get a clickable mouse cursor and when they click, they see a blue bar on the left so it looks like something happens.**
**Then, clicks "Start Clinical Reminders"**

**Asked to go back to the previous page. After thinking a while, hits back button in browser.**

**User sees a Questionnaire Option List**  

13. For each screen from now on, please think out loud and tell me what you think of the page before you click anything. We’re most interested in what you think of the questionnaire platform’s formatting and how the questions are laid out, and we are less focused on the questions themselves and their wording.  
14. Is anything unclear or unexpected? 
15. Okay, please move on.
    
**Moderator:** Participant may choose to select the questionnaires out of order listed.

## Third Task: Toxic Exposure – 10 minutes
1. Please read this screen out loud and tell me what you think of it before you answer.
2. Is anything unclear or unexpected?
3. If you did not want to complete this set of questions, what would you do next?
4. Okay, please move on.

**Was exposed to Agent Orange**
**Also had occupational hazards due to work that aren't listed on the page. "I wouldn't know what to do"**

**Clicked back button from middle of a screener, it took them back to the home page instead of back one screen.**

**Confused by description at top of page about asking for more information. There's a typo**

**Confused by what "connect you with someone" means. Is it phone? email?**
   
**Moderator:** At the end of each questionnaire, ask the following:

5. Based on the layout and formatting of the questions, on a scale from 1 to 5 (with 1 being very easy and 5 being very difficult), how easy or difficult was it to answer these questions about Toxic Exposure?
6. Were there any terms that seem unfamiliar or confusing to you?

   
## Fourth Task: Homelessness/Food insecurity – 10 minutes 
**Moderator:** On each subsequent screen, ask the following:
1. Please read this screen out loud and tell me what you think of it before you answer.
2. Is anything unclear or unexpected?
3. Okay, please move on.
   
**Moderator:** At the end of each questionnaire, ask the following:

4. Based on the layout and formatting of the questions, on a scale from 1 to 5 (with 1 being very easy and 5 being very difficult), how easy or difficult was it to answer these questions about Homelessness/Food insecurity?
5. Were there any terms that seem unfamiliar or confusing to you?


## Fifth Task: Tobacco Pack Year History – 10 minutes 
1. Please read this screen out loud and tell me what you think of it before you answer.
2. Is anything unclear or unexpected?
3. Okay, please move on.

**"I'm proud of the fact I've never smoked, I don't want to leave anything up to the ..." Doesn't want to select the option that says never smoked or fewer than 100 cigarettes**
   
**Moderator:** At the end of each questionnaire, ask the following:

4. Based on the layout and formatting of the questions, on a scale from 1 to 5 (with 1 being very easy and 5 being very difficult), how easy or difficult was it to answer these questions about Tobacco Pack Year History?
5. Were there any terms that seem unfamiliar or confusing to you?


## Sixth Task: Sexual Orientation – 5 minutes 
1. Please read this screen out loud and tell me what you think of it before you answer.
2. Is anything unclear or unexpected?
3. Okay, please move on.

**The description and question use the phrase "sexual orientation" in every sentence. Seems redundant**

**Asked what they would do if they received a phone call. Ideally, would be able to come back to my computer and have it the way I left it. I don't see anything obvious here that would tell me to save. I would assume it saves right where it was**

**Notices that it saved previous completed reminders with the dates. Wishes the dates were bigger "I'm old"****
**Tries to click on last incomplete reminder, again it doesn't work. Then clicks Start Clinical Reminders**
   
**Moderator:** At the end of each questionnaire, ask the following:

4. Based on the layout and formatting of the questions, on a scale from 1 to 5 (with 1 being very easy and 5 being very difficult), how easy or difficult was it to answer these questions about Sexual Orientation?
5. Were there any terms that seem unfamiliar or confusing to you?



## Seventh Task: End of the Questionnaire Experience– 3 minutes

Moderator: At the end of the entire questionnaire experience, ask the following:
- Can you tell me about your overall impression of this prototype?
**Felt a little clumsy to me. I would just make it very straightforward. The navigation is straightforward, might just be a wording thing. Individual clinical reminders were confusing because they looked like they should be links, would assume the website is down. Would either make those reminders actual links or make the Start button clearer like "click here to begin questionnaires". Doesn't remember the term "clinical reminders"**
- What did you notice about the process of submitting the questionnaire?
**I don't actually remember submitting it.**
**Asked whether each question was easy or difficult: [missed one, need to double check transcript] gave a 4 for toxic exposure, gave a 1 for homelessness and food insecurity, gave a 3 for tobacco usage because of their "personal thing" of not wanting to select fewer than 100 cigs**
- What parts of the experience worked as you expected?
- Were there any parts that didn't match what you thought would happen?
- Was there anything that stood out or that you weren't sure about?
- If you had to step away and return later, what would you expect to happen?
- How do you feel about using this type of tool for questions about personal health information; did you feel safe/secure?
**I would probably go ahead and trust them**
- What do you think about the length of time to complete the experience? Was it reasonable or unreasonable?
- How does this prototype compare to other questionnaire platforms you have used in the past to fill out digital health questionnaires?
**There's some degree of awkwardness. A little outside of the norm of what I would expect for a questionnaire. I had to concentrate a little more in what was being asked.**
- If you could change one thing about the entire questionnaire experience what would that be?
**Had trouble starting the questionnaire. Should make the start button easier to find**
- And finally, if you had to interact with this prototype to answer questions about your healthcare on a particular cadence and consistent basis, how satisfied or dissatisfied would you be?  **Would give it a 3 because of the questions (wording), not the layout**
    - Very dissatisfied
    - Dissatisfied
    - Neither dissatisfied, nor satisfied
    - Satisfied
    - Very satisfied  
- Before we close, do you have any questions for me?
**Glad we're doing this, would prefer to do this online then to have to fill it out online and mail it in**
- For those of you who are observing, do you have any questions to ask?

## Thank-You and Closing - 3 minutes

1. Well, we really appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us today. Your feedback is so helpful to us as we continue to work on these experiences and make sure it really works for Veterans.
2. Before you go, I wanted to iterate that everything we did today wasn’t real. The questions that you answered were not submitted to your provider or anywhere.
3. Lastly, Perigean will be sending you a thank you note with a little blurb that you can pass along to other Veterans you may know to provide them the chance to participate in future research studies.
4. Thank you so much again and enjoy the rest of your day!

## Emergency Exit

1. Out of questions: We have covered all the questions I have for you today. Thank you so much for your time and feedback.

2. Blame technology: I am so sorry, but I just learned that the thing I wanted to test with you today is unexpectedly not working. I apologize for the inconvenience and thank you for your time.
