# P12: CuraPatient Conversation Guide August 2025
- Date: Aug 8, 2025
- Moderator: Alyssa Li
- Notetaker: Nina Anusavice

## Intro - 5 minutes

1. Thanks for joining us today! My name is [moderator] and we have our notetaker on for taking notes.
2. I also have a couple other colleagues in the Zoom waiting room who would like to observe and take notes. But before we get to them...
3. Today we're going to talk about answering health questionnaires that your VA physician may have sent you to prepare for your medical appointment.
4. Before we start, a few things I want to mention:
5. **This entire session should take about [an hour]**. I want to be sure not to keep you much longer, so I may occasionally prompt you with the next question or topic.
6. In this session, we want to hear your honest opinions. We are not testing your ability. We just want to improve these tools to better meet Veterans' needs. I will not be offended by any opinions you express, and I welcome your feedback.
7. You'll be interacting with a demo tool. This is a demo tool that may look and function like the live site but since it's a demo, none of your actions will affect your actual VA healthcare.
8. If for any reason and at any time you want to stop the session, please let me know.
9. Perigean did ask for your consent to allow observers, but I want to be sure before we get going. Are you okay with a couple of additional observers during this session?
    - If no: Use Slack to kindly ask the observers to leave the Zoom.
    - If yes: Admit observers.
10. Then, ask the notetaker and observers to give a brief, camera-on, introduction, like their first name and position with VA.gov. (This is meant to humanize the interaction of observation for the participant)
11. Once complete, ask notetaker and observers to turn off their cameras for the remainder of the session to save bandwidth.
12. Are you comfortable if I record my screen and audio as we talk today?
    - We use the recordings to confirm that we have captured your opinions accurately. The recordings are destroyed after we complete the analysis, and none of your comments will be attributed to you directly.
    - We either report findings out in groups (i.e., 5 out of 10 participants said this) or if we want to quote you directly, we take away any identifying information and give you a participant ID, like P7. Knowing that, are you comfortable if I record my screen and audio as we talk today?
    - If yes: Once I start recording, I am going to confirm that you are okay with me recording this session once more.

**Start recording**

I have started recording. I'd like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record my screen and the audio as we talk today? Yes

## First Task: Warm-up questions – 3 minutes

1. Have you ever filled health questionnaires that you received from the VA provider either at your appointment or through email or text? Yes
    - If so, can you tell me about your experience? It was asking how the appointment was, how long did it take, did the nurses show you respect. It asked if the VA was a valuable place to get your help from. Questions like that.
Have you ever gotten one before an appointment? No, I’ve always gotten them after. I have gotten an email and then a few days later the same thing comes in the mail so I get 2. I prefer an email, if it comes in the mail I put it down and forget it. 
    - If you received health questionnaires via email or text, what devices have you used to respond to the questionnaires? I usually do it on whatever device I get it on. If I am on my phone I will respond right then. 
        - Did you use any accessibility features that are native to the device such as the Voiceover or Zoom?
        - What was your experience using that device to respond to the questionnaire?
        - Did you experience difficulties with completing the questionnaire?

## Second Task: Log-in screen - 10 minutes
**Notetaker:** Please note what browser is being used. There are 4 questionnaires; note which questionnaire branching logic they follow, if the questions and subsequent screens make sense, inconsistencies or awkward content, and any comments a participant shares without prompting from the moderator.
1. Now, we are going to pretend that your doctor emailed you some health questionnaires for you to complete before your upcoming appointment.
2. Some of the questions will be familiar to you as you answered them before while others may not.
3. As you read each screen, please think aloud.
4. And I’ll ask you a few questions on each screen before you move on through the prototype.
5. Just a reminder-this just a prototype and your answer to questions will not affect you or your benefits in any way.
6. What device are you using today? Android phone, Chrome
7. In the Zoom chat, located at the X part of your screen, I’m going to send you a link to a questionnaire tool along with a fictitious date of birth and a last name, then I’ll ask to share screen, but don’t click on that link just yet.
8. Can you share your screen located at X. 
9. I’m sending the links and credentials in your Zoom chat now. Do you see them? Great.

    - CuraPatient link: 
    - Log-in credentials: 

10. Now, I’ll ask you to click on the link.


**User sees a Login Screen**     

11. What are your first impressions after opening the link?  I would be like okay, when you get out of the military you have to take the toxic exposure, and the sexual orientation. The other 2 don’t pertain to me. I would click start clinical reminders. 
12. Please answer the questions and move on.


**User sees a Questionnaire Option List**   

13. For each screen from now on, please think out loud and tell me what you think of the page before you click anything. We’re most interested in what you think of the questionnaire platform’s formatting and how the questions are laid out, and we are less focused on the questions themselves and their wording.  
14. Is anything unclear or unexpected? 
15. Okay, please move on.
    
**Moderator:** Participant may choose to select the questionnaires out of order listed.

## Third Task: Toxic Exposure – 10 minutes
1.	Please read this screen out loud and tell me what you think of it before you answer.
The first page is easy, it’s not confusing to me. The next page it’s still self explanatory. I clicked all of them to get more information for all of these categories.
The page froze. Trying to go back to previous page then, go back and see if I can go to next. Still not working. If stuck on the page and can’t go forward, I would go back to the first page and see if there were a phone number to call. Okay no phone number to call. So, there’s really nothing I can do but try to start over. But I can’t when I go back to the first one it doesn’t have anything there. I would call the medical provider that sent it to me and tell them when I try to answer the question it froze up. If they would send me the paperwork I would fill it out. It’s easier to do on line, but I would do it on paper work because it might be something that would help me something I need. 
Having to prompt the participant to scroll to the top, the page did not open at the top. 
What do you think just happened and how do you feel about it? I think maybe if I took it on a computer screen it would have been different. Maybe I would have seen the top of course. 
2. Is anything unclear or unexpected? No ma’am. 
3. If you did not want to complete this set of questions, what would you do next?
4. Okay, please move on.
   
**Moderator:** At the end of each questionnaire, ask the following:

5. Based on the layout and formatting of the questions, on a scale from 1 to 5 (with 1 being very easy and 5 being very difficult), how easy or difficult was it to answer these questions about Toxic Exposure? 1to me it was very easy, self-explanatory questions, you pick what pertains to you. 
6. Were there any terms that seem unfamiliar or confusing to you?

   
## Fourth Task: Homelessness/Food insecurity – 10 minutes 
**Moderator:** On each subsequent screen, ask the following:
1. Please read this screen out loud and tell me what you think of it before you answer. IT’s self-explanatory. This page was self-explanatory.
2. Is anything unclear or unexpected?
3. Okay, please move on.
   
**Moderator:** At the end of each questionnaire, ask the following:

4. Based on the layout and formatting of the questions, on a scale from 1 to 5 (with 1 being very easy and 5 being very difficult), how easy or difficult was it to answer these questions about Homelessness/Food insecurity? It was a 1, it was very easy.
5. Were there any terms that seem unfamiliar or confusing to you?


## Fifth Task: Tobacco Pack Year History – 10 minutes 
1. Please read this screen out loud and tell me what you think of it before you answer. I don’t smoke at all so, that’s an easy question. But you know this page should have, it says I never smoked or smoked few than 100 in a lifetime. There should be one on her that says I do not smoke, never. That’s the only thing I see on that page that needs to be added. There should be an option that says I do not smoke or I have never smoked.
2. Is anything unclear or unexpected?
3. Okay, please move on.
   
**Moderator:** At the end of each questionnaire, ask the following:

4. Based on the layout and formatting of the questions, on a scale from 1 to 5 (with 1 being very easy and 5 being very difficult), how easy or difficult was it to answer these questions about Tobacco Pack Year History? I’m going to say 2 because they didn’t have my answer. 
5. Were there any terms that seem unfamiliar or confusing to you?


## Sixth Task: Sexual Orientation – 5 minutes 
1. Please read this screen out loud and tell me what you think of it before you answer.
2. Is anything unclear or unexpected? No. You know what all the answers they are offering 2 of the questions have the same meaning. Lesbian, gay, queer, bisexual are all the same things. Straight and heterosexual are the same thing. So, either fewer options or ask what you would prefer to be labeled as. 
If you were filling out this questionnaire and there was a word you didn’t understand, how would you try to find out what it means? You can look on google or ask someone in your house. 
3. Okay, please move on.
   
**Moderator:** At the end of each questionnaire, ask the following:

4. Based on the layout and formatting of the questions, on a scale from 1 to 5 (with 1 being very easy and 5 being very difficult), how easy or difficult was it to answer these questions about Sexual Orientation?
5. Were there any terms that seem unfamiliar or confusing to you?

Okay now what would you do next? Click on whichever one I am interested in. Like VA health care. It’s an easy page, it’s self-explanatory. 

## Seventh Task: End of the Questionnaire Experience– 3 minutes

Moderator: At the end of the entire questionnaire experience, ask the following:
- Can you tell me about your overall impression of this prototype? It was a great prototype, if that add that one answer in there, I do not smoke it would be okay. 
- What did you notice about the process of submitting the questionnaire? It’s user friendly.
- What parts of the experience worked as you expected?
- Were there any parts that didn't match what you thought would happen? No, it got stuck and you had to figure out how to get it unstuck. It was just like I imagined. I have been with the VA long enough to know something always happens. 
- Was there anything that stood out or that you weren't sure about?
- If you had to step away and return later, what would you expect to happen? I would tell my friend to call me back in 10 minutes, I am doing paperwork for the VA. If it’s a very important call, I would minimize the screen. 
Imagine after you returned, is this what you expected to see? Yeah, it shows the one I haven’t completed. First I would try to mash on the one I have not done, but then I would mash start clinical reminders. And it takes me to sexual orientation. It makes sense. It didn’t work to click on the reminder I had to click start clinical reminders. 
- How do you feel about using this type of tool for questions about personal health information; did you feel safe/secure? Yeah, anything coming from the VA is safe and secure as long as you stay on their page. Yeah, I’m pretty sure it was safe. With the VA it’s always going to have some .gov at the heading of where it comes from. I haven’t seen too many people that can scam from the VA. If you go off the page then yeah you can get in trouble. 
- What do you think about the length of time to complete the experience? Was it reasonable or unreasonable?  - How does this prototype compare to other questionnaire platforms you have used in the past to fill out digital health questionnaires? It was reasonable. 
- If you could change one thing about the entire questionnaire experience what would that be? If you get stuck, you know we had to go back, but then I realized there was a question at the top that I had not answered and that is why I couldn’t go forward. I probably would have tried again on my computer. Try to put the question closer together or number it. 
- And finally, if you had to interact with this prototype to answer questions about your healthcare on a particular cadence and consistent basis, how satisfied or dissatisfied would you be?  I would be very satisfied. It’s pretty easy and simple, you know I work on a computer all the time so it would be simple for me. 
    - Very dissatisfied
    - Dissatisfied
    - Neither dissatisfied, nor satisfied
    - Satisfied
    - Very satisfied  
- Before we close, do you have any questions for me?
- For those of you who are observing, do you have any questions to ask?

## Thank-You and Closing - 3 minutes

1. Well, we really appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us today. Your feedback is so helpful to us as we continue to work on these experiences and make sure it really works for Veterans.
2. Before you go, I wanted to iterate that everything we did today wasn’t real. The questions that you answered were not submitted to your provider or anywhere.
3. Lastly, Perigean will be sending you a thank you note with a little blurb that you can pass along to other Veterans you may know to provide them the chance to participate in future research studies.
4. Thank you so much again and enjoy the rest of your day!

## Emergency Exit

1. Out of questions: We have covered all the questions I have for you today. Thank you so much for your time and feedback.

2. Blame technology: I am so sorry, but I just learned that the thing I wanted to test with you today is unexpectedly not working. I apologize for the inconvenience and thank you for your time.
