# P2: CuraPatient Conversation Guide August 2025
- Date: Aug 4, 2025
- Moderator: Alyssa Li
- Notetaker: Nina Anusavice

## Intro - 5 minutes

1. Thanks for joining us today! My name is [moderator] and we have our notetaker on for taking notes.
2. I also have a couple other colleagues in the Zoom waiting room who would like to observe and take notes. But before we get to them...
3. Today we're going to talk about answering health questionnaires that your VA physician may have sent you to prepare for your medical appointment.
4. Before we start, a few things I want to mention:
5. **This entire session should take about [an hour]**. I want to be sure not to keep you much longer, so I may occasionally prompt you with the next question or topic.
6. In this session, we want to hear your honest opinions. We are not testing your ability. We just want to improve these tools to better meet Veterans' needs. I will not be offended by any opinions you express, and I welcome your feedback.
7. You'll be interacting with a demo tool. This is a demo tool that may look and function like the live site but since it's a demo, none of your actions will affect your actual VA healthcare.
8. If for any reason and at any time you want to stop the session, please let me know.
9. Perigean did ask for your consent to allow observers, but I want to be sure before we get going. Are you okay with a couple of additional observers during this session?
    - If no: Use Slack to kindly ask the observers to leave the Zoom.
    - If yes: Admit observers.
10. Then, ask the notetaker and observers to give a brief, camera-on, introduction, like their first name and position with VA.gov. (This is meant to humanize the interaction of observation for the participant)
11. Once complete, ask notetaker and observers to turn off their cameras for the remainder of the session to save bandwidth.
12. Are you comfortable if I record my screen and audio as we talk today?
    - We use the recordings to confirm that we have captured your opinions accurately. The recordings are destroyed after we complete the analysis, and none of your comments will be attributed to you directly.
    - We either report findings out in groups (i.e., 5 out of 10 participants said this) or if we want to quote you directly, we take away any identifying information and give you a participant ID, like P7. Knowing that, are you comfortable if I record my screen and audio as we talk today?
    - If yes: Once I start recording, I am going to confirm that you are okay with me recording this session once more.

**Start recording**

I have started recording. I'd like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record my screen and the audio as we talk today?

## First Task: Warm-up questions – 3 minutes

1. Have you ever filled health questionnaires that you received from the VA provider either at your appointment or through email or text?
    - If so, can you tell me about your experience?
    - questionnaire can be confusing. some questions may sound repetive. Like what exactly are they answering. 
    - If you received health questionnaires via email or text, what devices have you used to respond to the questionnaires?
    - I usually send emails to my doctors about referrals. 
        - Did you use any accessibility features that are native to the device such as the Voiceover or Zoom?
        - What was your experience using that device to respond to the questionnaire?
        - Did you experience difficulties with completing the questionnaire?

I use to fill them before my appointment in the waiting room. 

## Second Task: Log-in screen - 10 minutes
**Notetaker:** Please note what browser is being used. There are 4 questionnaires; note which questionnaire branching logic they follow, if the questions and subsequent screens make sense, inconsistencies or awkward content, and any comments a participant shares without prompting from the moderator.
is using a desktop/laptop. 
1. Now, we are going to pretend that your doctor emailed you some health questionnaires for you to complete before your upcoming appointment.
2. Some of the questions will be familiar to you as you answered them before while others may not.
3. As you read each screen, please think aloud.
4. And I’ll ask you a few questions on each screen before you move on through the prototype.
5. "it doesn't say anything about my appoinment"
6. Just a reminder-this just a prototype and your answer to questions will not affect you or your benefits in any way.
7. What device are you using today?
8. In the Zoom chat, located at the X part of your screen, I’m going to send you a link to a questionnaire tool along with a fictitious date of birth and a last name, then I’ll ask to share screen, but don’t click on that link just yet.
9. Can you share your screen located at X. 
10. I’m sending the links and credentials in your Zoom chat now. Do you see them? Great.

    - CuraPatient link: 
    - Log-in credentials: 

11. Now, I’ll ask you to click on the link.


**User sees a Login Screen**     

11. What are your first impressions after opening the link?
12. "I like the large type of the questions and it is not confusing" the second questions was quick and there was not delay" I understand the questions and it's big enough to see" the score at the bottom of questionnaire. I feel like I'm being tested" I don't need a score on the questionnaire" but maybe if I move on further then I will get a score."
13. Please answer the questions and move on.


**User sees a Questionnaire Option List**   

13. For each screen from now on, please think out loud and tell me what you think of the page before you click anything. We’re most interested in what you think of the questionnaire platform’s formatting and how the questions are laid out, and we are less focused on the questions themselves and their wording.  
14. Is anything unclear or unexpected? 
15. Okay, please move on.
    
**Moderator:** Participant may choose to select the questionnaires out of order listed.

## Third Task: Toxic Exposure – 10 minutes
1. Please read this screen out loud and tell me what you think of it before you answer.
2. Is anything unclear or unexpected?
3. If you did not want to complete this set of questions, what would you do next?
4. Okay, please move on.
   
**Moderator:** At the end of each questionnaire, ask the following:

5. Based on the layout and formatting of the questions, on a scale from 1 to 5 (with 1 being very easy and 5 being very difficult), how easy or difficult was it to answer these questions about Toxic Exposure?
6. Were there any terms that seem unfamiliar or confusing to you?

   
## Fourth Task: Homelessness/Food insecurity – 10 minutes 
**Moderator:** On each subsequent screen, ask the following:
Often true, sometimnes truee- It would be difucult to understand because it is not direct."

1. Please read this screen out loud and tell me what you think of it before you answer.
2. Is anything unclear or unexpected?
3. ASK BETWEEN THE HOMELESSNESS AND FOOD INSECURITY QUESTIONS: Now let’s pretend that you received a call from a friend while you were filling out this questionnaire.
I would ask then to call back. You would only get a certain amount of time or questionnaire because it times out. 

What would you do next? 
I would let it open. I would expect it to go back and leave on the where I left off. P@ closes screen and clicks on the screen.  If it timed out, I would expect to go back where I left off at. I would expect it to pick-up where it left off at. 
(P2 didn't releaze that it was brought back to the questionnaire where they left off at-they had already completed TES screener)
Please pause the questionnaire and return to the questionnaire. What happens? 

What do you expect to happen when you return and want to finish the questionnaire?  

Was your progress saved?  

Was it clear how to resume? 

Is this what you expected to happen? 

If you needed help with anything on this questionnaire, where would you look? Try to find support or help features now. 

Did you find what you needed?  

Was it helpful? 

What changes would you recommend? 
4. Okay, please move on.
   
**Moderator:** At the end of each questionnaire, ask the following:

4. Based on the layout and formatting of the questions, on a scale from 1 to 5 (with 1 being very easy and 5 being very difficult), how easy or difficult was it to answer these questions about Homelessness/Food insecurity?
5. Were there any terms that seem unfamiliar or confusing to you?


## Fifth Task: Tobacco Pack Year History – 10 minutes 
**Note: This version of Protoype did not contain this questionnaire.**
1. Please read this screen out loud and tell me what you think of it before you answer.
2. Is anything unclear or unexpected?
3. Okay, please move on.
   
**Moderator:** At the end of each questionnaire, ask the following:

4. Based on the layout and formatting of the questions, on a scale from 1 to 5 (with 1 being very easy and 5 being very difficult), how easy or difficult was it to answer these questions about Tobacco Pack Year History?
5. Were there any terms that seem unfamiliar or confusing to you?


## Sixth Task: Sexual Orientation – 5 minutes 
"I'm not offended, but someone else may feel offended if they get this questions. Some people may feel that they maybe discriminated against. I think they should have the option to prefer not to answer-Now I got a score of 1."
1. Before you move on to answer this questionnaire, can you please tell what you would do if you: 

a. wanted to go back to the previous screen; is this what you expected to happen? 
(this is what I expected) 
"I would expect to go on the Profile Icon- so I don't see help there. the home button just took be back. I would like to see a "help" button near the home" icon.
b. Okay, go back to the SO questionnaire screen again; how would you navigate to the next screen - is this what you expected to happen? 
1. Please read this screen out loud and tell me what you think of it before you answer.
2. Is anything unclear or unexpected?
3. Okay, please move on.
   
**Moderator:** At the end of each questionnaire, ask the following:

4. Based on the layout and formatting of the questions, on a scale from 1 to 5 (with 1 being very easy and 5 being very difficult), how easy or difficult was it to answer these questions about Sexual Orientation?
5. Were there any terms that seem unfamiliar or confusing to you?



## Seventh Task: End of the Questionnaire Experience– 3 minutes

Moderator: At the end of the entire questionnaire experience, ask the following:
- Can you tell me about your overall impression of this prototype?
- "this expericne has nothing about your upcomming appoiment. I would expect to see if I'm having any problems any questions I have with my provider. I would expect the questions have to do with my appoinment it is medical history which they already have."
- What did you notice about the process of submitting the questionnaire?
- What is the score for" It was easy to submitt. everything else was what I expected." it says Recommended so I'm not finished the questions . I would click on the . I didn't have any expectations on what I expected to see "in recomendations" It say P Mand R execrice Resource. I would expect them to have any resources about exercises"
- What parts of the experience worked as you expected?
- 
- "this did not have anything to login with my crenditals but if I did have to log in then I would feel safe"
- Were there any parts that didn't match what you thought would happen?
- Was there anything that stood out or that you weren't sure about?
- If you had to step away and return later, what would you expect to happen?
- How do you feel about using this type of tool for questions about personal health information; did you feel safe/secure?
- all 3 questions, how easy of difficult would did you feel to answer all questions, very easy"
- What do you think about the length of time to complete the experience? Was it reasonable or unreasonable?  - How does this prototype compare to other questionnaire platforms you have used in the past to fill out digital health questionnaires? It was short.  the layout is very easy. the word on the bottom are larger thant the questions, is this more important than the questionnaires" 
- If you could change one thing about the entire questionnaire experience what would that be?
-     to put on the help button, which is not there. to see it is more visible. I would say to put it up there.
- on the TES, other exposures. what are the options for the other exposures. I would like to see a help button for the exposures, because i want to know what the other exposure are, what options. Mod ask what would you do if you had other exposures. she still anwered NO, she didn't realize she could click on Yes"
- And finally, if you had to interact with this prototype to answer questions about your healthcare on a particular cadence and consistent basis, how satisfied or dissatisfied would you be?  
    - Very dissatisfied
    - Dissatisfied
    - Neither dissatisfied, nor satisfied
    - Satisfied
    - Very satisfied  
- Before we close, do you have any questions for me?
- For those of you who are observing, do you have any questions to ask?

## Thank-You and Closing - 3 minutes

1. Well, we really appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us today. Your feedback is so helpful to us as we continue to work on these experiences and make sure it really works for Veterans.
2. Before you go, I wanted to iterate that everything we did today wasn’t real. The questions that you answered were not submitted to your provider or anywhere.
3. Lastly, Perigean will be sending you a thank you note with a little blurb that you can pass along to other Veterans you may know to provide them the chance to participate in future research studies.
4. Thank you so much again and enjoy the rest of your day!

## Emergency Exit

1. Out of questions: We have covered all the questions I have for you today. Thank you so much for your time and feedback.

2. Blame technology: I am so sorry, but I just learned that the thing I wanted to test with you today is unexpectedly not working. I apologize for the inconvenience and thank you for your time.
