# P3: CuraPatient Conversation Guide August 2025
- Date: Aug 4, 2025
- Moderator: Nina Anusavice
- Notetaker: Alyssa Li

## Intro - 5 minutes

1. Thanks for joining us today! My name is [moderator] and we have our notetaker on for taking notes.
2. I also have a couple other colleagues in the Zoom waiting room who would like to observe and take notes. But before we get to them...
3. Today we're going to talk about answering health questionnaires that your VA physician may have sent you to prepare for your medical appointment.
4. Before we start, a few things I want to mention:
5. **This entire session should take about [an hour]**. I want to be sure not to keep you much longer, so I may occasionally prompt you with the next question or topic.
6. In this session, we want to hear your honest opinions. We are not testing your ability. We just want to improve these tools to better meet Veterans' needs. I will not be offended by any opinions you express, and I welcome your feedback.
7. You'll be interacting with a demo tool. This is a demo tool that may look and function like the live site but since it's a demo, none of your actions will affect your actual VA healthcare.
8. If for any reason and at any time you want to stop the session, please let me know.
9. Perigean did ask for your consent to allow observers, but I want to be sure before we get going. Are you okay with a couple of additional observers during this session?
    - If no: Use Slack to kindly ask the observers to leave the Zoom.
    - If yes: Admit observers.
10. Then, ask the notetaker and observers to give a brief, camera-on, introduction, like their first name and position with VA.gov. (This is meant to humanize the interaction of observation for the participant)
11. Once complete, ask notetaker and observers to turn off their cameras for the remainder of the session to save bandwidth.
12. Are you comfortable if I record my screen and audio as we talk today?
    - We use the recordings to confirm that we have captured your opinions accurately. The recordings are destroyed after we complete the analysis, and none of your comments will be attributed to you directly.
    - We either report findings out in groups (i.e., 5 out of 10 participants said this) or if we want to quote you directly, we take away any identifying information and give you a participant ID, like P7. Knowing that, are you comfortable if I record my screen and audio as we talk today?
    - If yes: Once I start recording, I am going to confirm that you are okay with me recording this session once more.

**Start recording**

I have started recording. I'd like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record my screen and the audio as we talk today?

## First Task: Warm-up questions – 3 minutes

1. Have you ever filled health questionnaires that you received from the VA provider either at your appointment or through email or text?
    - If so, can you tell me about your experience?
    - If you received health questionnaires via email or text, what devices have you used to respond to the questionnaires?
        - Did you use any accessibility features that are native to the device such as the Voiceover or Zoom?
        - What was your experience using that device to respond to the questionnaire?
        - Did you experience difficulties with completing the questionnaire?
     
**Got a surprise questionnaire about vision at last appointment. Paper based, got a clipboard and pen. No problems, and then had to do an eye exam. It was their first eye exam at the VA, which was a surprise.**

## Second Task: Log-in screen - 10 minutes
**Notetaker:** Please note what browser is being used. There are 4 questionnaires; note which questionnaire branching logic they follow, if the questions and subsequent screens make sense, inconsistencies or awkward content, and any comments a participant shares without prompting from the moderator.

**Using a laptop**

1. Now, we are going to pretend that your doctor emailed you some health questionnaires for you to complete before your upcoming appointment.
2. Some of the questions will be familiar to you as you answered them before while others may not.
3. As you read each screen, please think aloud.
4. And I’ll ask you a few questions on each screen before you move on through the prototype.
5. Just a reminder-this just a prototype and your answer to questions will not affect you or your benefits in any way.
6. What device are you using today?
7. In the Zoom chat, located at the X part of your screen, I’m going to send you a link to a questionnaire tool along with a fictitious date of birth and a last name, then I’ll ask to share screen, but don’t click on that link just yet.
8. Can you share your screen located at X. 
9. I’m sending the links and credentials in your Zoom chat now. Do you see them? Great.

    - CuraPatient link: 
    - Log-in credentials: 

10. Now, I’ll ask you to click on the link.


**User sees a Login Screen**     

11. What are your first impressions after opening the link?   
12. Please answer the questions and move on.


**User sees a Questionnaire Option List**   

13. For each screen from now on, please think out loud and tell me what you think of the page before you click anything. We’re most interested in what you think of the questionnaire platform’s formatting and how the questions are laid out, and we are less focused on the questions themselves and their wording.  
14. Is anything unclear or unexpected? 
15. Okay, please move on.

**Notices there are three different sets of questions, says they seem to be "scrambled" in no particular order.**
    
**Moderator:** Participant may choose to select the questionnaires out of order listed.

## Third Task: Toxic Exposure – 10 minutes
1. Please read this screen out loud and tell me what you think of it before you answer.
2. Is anything unclear or unexpected?
3. If you did not want to complete this set of questions, what would you do next?
4. Okay, please move on.

**Clicked yes for toxic exposure. Quickly selected option for the type of exposure.**"

**Selected "I don't have any questions at this time" because they have researched this topic before. Then, next button wasn't working. Had to scroll up to figure out what was wrong. They had missed a checkbox acknowlegement. Would have expected the acknowlegement to be at the bottom of the screen instead of the top. Since it was at the top, they skipped over it in order to read the question.**
   
**Moderator:** At the end of each questionnaire, ask the following:

5. Based on the layout and formatting of the questions, on a scale from 1 to 5 (with 1 being very easy and 5 being very difficult), how easy or difficult was it to answer these questions about Toxic Exposure? **Gave it a 1**
6. Were there any terms that seem unfamiliar or confusing to you?

   
## Fourth Task: Homelessness/Food insecurity – 10 minutes 
**Moderator:** On each subsequent screen, ask the following:
1. Please read this screen out loud and tell me what you think of it before you answer.
2. Is anything unclear or unexpected?
3. Okay, please move on.

**Said it was very simple, flew through the questions.**
**When asked hypothetical about receiving a phone call. Would leave the screen on and running. Would expect to go back to the start screen and then be able to go back to the question they were last on.**

**When they opened up the home page, they selected the questionnaire where they left off [Homelessness and Food Insecurity] but it didn't work. Then, they clicked the black button on the bottom which says something like "Start clinical reminders"**

**They expected to go back to the specific question they were on, but it brought them to the start of the Homesslessness and Food Insecurity questions.**

**Could not find help button. Said they would expect a floating help button on each screen**


   
**Moderator:** At the end of each questionnaire, ask the following:

4. Based on the layout and formatting of the questions, on a scale from 1 to 5 (with 1 being very easy and 5 being very difficult), how easy or difficult was it to answer these questions about Homelessness/Food insecurity?
5. Were there any terms that seem unfamiliar or confusing to you?


## Fifth Task: Tobacco Pack Year History – 10 minutes 
1. Please read this screen out loud and tell me what you think of it before you answer.
2. Is anything unclear or unexpected?
3. Okay, please move on.
   
**Moderator:** At the end of each questionnaire, ask the following:

4. Based on the layout and formatting of the questions, on a scale from 1 to 5 (with 1 being very easy and 5 being very difficult), how easy or difficult was it to answer these questions about Tobacco Pack Year History?
5. Were there any terms that seem unfamiliar or confusing to you?


## Sixth Task: Sexual Orientation – 5 minutes 
1. Please read this screen out loud and tell me what you think of it before you answer.
2. Is anything unclear or unexpected?
3. Okay, please move on.

**Thinks they are not able to go back and change previous responses. Does not see a "previous screen" button. Tried clicking on Home and then clicked on previous set of questions, just to see what would happen. They were able to go back and change previous answers, but they didn't think they would have been able to do so.**

**Notes that there aren't many help screens. They were fine navigating through it, but thinks other people might need 2 things: a help button and/or a chat feature to get help from AI or a real person.**


**When going back through toxic exposure questions, is confused by the 2nd question which says "Thank you for answering [the first quetsion]...." They were confused why it said thank you because they had already answered the question.**

**Would have expected green/yellow/red colors to illustrate the previous and next buttons**




   
**Moderator:** At the end of each questionnaire, ask the following:

4. Based on the layout and formatting of the questions, on a scale from 1 to 5 (with 1 being very easy and 5 being very difficult), how easy or difficult was it to answer these questions about Sexual Orientation?
5. Were there any terms that seem unfamiliar or confusing to you?



## Seventh Task: End of the Questionnaire Experience– 3 minutes

Moderator: At the end of the entire questionnaire experience, ask the following:
- Can you tell me about your overall impression of this prototype?
- What did you notice about the process of submitting the questionnaire?

**Says it was simple. On final page of toxic exposures which says "Thank you for completing this screener" and requires a checkbox to be clicked that says "Ok" -- there is no next or submit button at the very end when they are going through it a second time. Is this a bug? Or does the next button only show up if changes are made? The participant would close the window since there is no button to "close" the questionnaire.**
  
- What parts of the experience worked as you expected?
- Were there any parts that didn't match what you thought would happen?
- Was there anything that stood out or that you weren't sure about?
- If you had to step away and return later, what would you expect to happen?
- How do you feel about using this type of tool for questions about personal health information; did you feel safe/secure?

**Thinks an attestation should be made at the start of the survey discussing the level of security. And participants should be given the option to refuse to answer if they do not feel safe.**

**If they verified that this came from a VA email, they would be fine answering the questions, especially since it does not ask for PII.**

- What do you think about the length of time to complete the experience? Was it reasonable or unreasonable?

**Would have taken 2-3 minutes to complete the whole thing if they were on their own**

- How does this prototype compare to other questionnaire platforms you have used in the past to fill out digital health questionnaires?
- If you could change one thing about the entire questionnaire experience what would that be?

**Would add a help button**
  
- And finally, if you had to interact with this prototype to answer questions about your healthcare on a particular cadence and consistent basis, how satisfied or dissatisfied would you be?  
    - Very dissatisfied
    - Dissatisfied
    - Neither dissatisfied, nor satisfied
    - Satisfied
    - Very satisfied
 
**Very satisfied. Would think "this only takes 2-3 minutes, I can do it right now".**

**For people who are less technologically savvy, would reccommend putting a video tutorial on the home page.**

- Before we close, do you have any questions for me?
- For those of you who are observing, do you have any questions to ask?

## Thank-You and Closing - 3 minutes

1. Well, we really appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us today. Your feedback is so helpful to us as we continue to work on these experiences and make sure it really works for Veterans.
2. Before you go, I wanted to iterate that everything we did today wasn’t real. The questions that you answered were not submitted to your provider or anywhere.
3. Lastly, Perigean will be sending you a thank you note with a little blurb that you can pass along to other Veterans you may know to provide them the chance to participate in future research studies.
4. Thank you so much again and enjoy the rest of your day!

## Emergency Exit

1. Out of questions: We have covered all the questions I have for you today. Thank you so much for your time and feedback.

2. Blame technology: I am so sorry, but I just learned that the thing I wanted to test with you today is unexpectedly not working. I apologize for the inconvenience and thank you for your time.
