products/accredited-representation-management/readme.md, before:

# Accredited Representation Management (ARM)

_Formerlly known as Find a Representative (FAR)_

The Accredited Representation Management (ARM) team is part of the Accredited Reps Crew in the OCTO Benefits Portfolio.

**Mission**: Create a high-quality, accessible suite of services within VA.gov to serve Veterans in managing their representation, and to support the deprecation of legacy systems (eBenefits, OGC) currently being used for these actions.

## Product Resources

#### In Production
1. Find a Representative product: [Find a VA accredited representative or VSO](https://www.va.gov/get-help-from-accredited-representative/find-rep)
2. Supporting landing page from CAIA: [Get help from a VA accredited representative or VSO](https://www.va.gov/get-help-from-accredited-representative/)

#### Product Documentation
1. [Find a Representative](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/tree/master/products/accredited-representation-management/product-documentation/find-a-representative)
2. [Representative Status Widget](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/tree/master/products/accredited-representation-management/product-documentation/representative-status-widget)
3. [Appoint a Representative](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/tree/master/products/accredited-representation-management/product-documentation/appoint-a-representative)

#### [Zenhub board](https://app.zenhub.com/workspaces/accredited-representation-management-team-64d0dc51d3e8f4788ac6ef96/board)

## CAIA Resources
1. [Content source of truth - Sharepoint](https://dvagov.sharepoint.com/:f:/s/SitewideCAIA/EpKqFTllvlxOkDwz2iFgveAB9PjkKVIrJu_TUAkQPbsU0g?e=L92kpF)
2. [Entry Point Tracker - Sharepoint](https://dvagov.sharepoint.com/:x:/r/sites/SitewideCAIA/_layouts/15/Doc.aspx?sourcedoc=%7B11D63FFC-ABED-4D32-BBBE-E92FC16428B2%7D&file=2023.12.11%20ARM%20entry%20points%20tracker.xlsx&action=default&mobileredirect=true)
3. [IA source of truth - Github](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/blob/master/products/information-architecture/ia-design-docs/manage-accredited-representative.md)
4. [IA redirect plan - Sharepoint](https://dvagov.sharepoint.com/:w:/r/sites/SitewideCAIA/_layouts/15/Doc.aspx?sourcedoc=%7B203EE57C-1260-4A20-9981-40A7396FB36A%7D&file=0.0%20Redirect%20plan.docx&action=default&mobileredirect=true)
5. [A11y review log - Github](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/tree/master/teams/CAIA/accessibility/Deliverables/Benefits%20Representation%20Management)

## ARM Team Members

- DSVA Product Owner: Jennifer Bertsch, Jennifer.Bertsch@va.gov
- Product Manager: Lindsay Li-Smith, lindsay.li-smith@oddball.io
- [Full ARM team roster](https://github.com/orgs/department-of-veterans-affairs/projects/947/views/5)

## Communication
Questions?  You can find us on the DSVA slack channel **#benefits-representation-management**

Commit message:

Add note about encrypting fields for ARM team (#85922)
* new folder

* Update setup-real-user-monitoring.md (#77303)

Adds info on how to globally override clicked element titles.

* add note about encrypting fields that contain pii

* add note about encrypting fields that contain pii

---------

Co-authored-by: Janie Tankard-Carnock <126614629+janieTC-USDS@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: Adrian Rollett <acrollet@gmail.com>

products/accredited-representation-management/readme.md, after:

# Accredited Representation Management (ARM)

_Formerlly known as Find a Representative (FAR)_

The Accredited Representation Management (ARM) team is part of the Accredited Reps Crew in the OCTO Benefits Portfolio.

**Mission**: Create a high-quality, accessible suite of services within VA.gov to serve Veterans in managing their representation, and to support the deprecation of legacy systems (eBenefits, OGC) currently being used for these actions.

## Product Resources

#### In Production
1. Find a Representative product: [Find a VA accredited representative or VSO](https://www.va.gov/get-help-from-accredited-representative/find-rep)
2. Supporting landing page from CAIA: [Get help from a VA accredited representative or VSO](https://www.va.gov/get-help-from-accredited-representative/)

#### Product Documentation
1. [Find a Representative](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/tree/master/products/accredited-representation-management/product-documentation/find-a-representative)
2. [Representative Status Widget](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/tree/master/products/accredited-representation-management/product-documentation/representative-status-widget)
3. [Appoint a Representative](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/tree/master/products/accredited-representation-management/product-documentation/appoint-a-representative)

#### [Zenhub board](https://app.zenhub.com/workspaces/accredited-representation-management-team-64d0dc51d3e8f4788ac6ef96/board)

## CAIA Resources
1. [Content source of truth - Sharepoint](https://dvagov.sharepoint.com/:f:/s/SitewideCAIA/EpKqFTllvlxOkDwz2iFgveAB9PjkKVIrJu_TUAkQPbsU0g?e=L92kpF)
2. [Entry Point Tracker - Sharepoint](https://dvagov.sharepoint.com/:x:/r/sites/SitewideCAIA/_layouts/15/Doc.aspx?sourcedoc=%7B11D63FFC-ABED-4D32-BBBE-E92FC16428B2%7D&file=2023.12.11%20ARM%20entry%20points%20tracker.xlsx&action=default&mobileredirect=true)
3. [IA source of truth - Github](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/blob/master/products/information-architecture/ia-design-docs/manage-accredited-representative.md)
4. [IA redirect plan - Sharepoint](https://dvagov.sharepoint.com/:w:/r/sites/SitewideCAIA/_layouts/15/Doc.aspx?sourcedoc=%7B203EE57C-1260-4A20-9981-40A7396FB36A%7D&file=0.0%20Redirect%20plan.docx&action=default&mobileredirect=true)
5. [A11y review log - Github](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/tree/master/teams/CAIA/accessibility/Deliverables/Benefits%20Representation%20Management)

## Engineering
All database tables created to support ARM products must encrypt fields that contain PII.

## ARM Team Members

- DSVA Product Owner: Jennifer Bertsch, Jennifer.Bertsch@va.gov
- Product Manager: Lindsay Li-Smith, lindsay.li-smith@oddball.io
- [Full ARM team roster](https://github.com/orgs/department-of-veterans-affairs/projects/947/views/5)

## Communication
Questions?  You can find us on the DSVA slack channel **#benefits-representation-management**
