# Yellow Ribbon School Finder Conversation Guide for Moderated Research

## Intro - 5 minutes

Thanks for joining us today! My name is Liz Lantz and I also have some colleagues on the line observing and taking notes. Today we're going to talk about Yellow Ribbon education benefits, and how you, as someone eligible to receive them, understand your benefits and go about using them.

Before we start, a few things I want to mention:

- This entire session should take about 40 minutes. I want to be sure not to keep you much longer, so I may occasionally prompt you with the next question or topic.

- In this session, we want to hear your honest opinions. We are not testing your ability. We just want to improve these tools to better meet Veteran's needs. I will not be offended by any opinions you express, and I welcome your feedback. The more you can think out loud and share what you're thinking as you go through the session, the better.

- You'll be interacting with an interactive prototype. This is means it may not function exactly the way you expect. Some areas of the prototype will be clickable, and some will not. Since it's a demo, none of your actions will affect your actual VA information or benefits.

- If for any reason and at any time you want to stop the session, please let me know.

- Are you comfortable if I record my screen and audio as we talk today? We use the recordings to confirm that we have captured your opinions accurately. The recordings are destroyed after we complete analysis, and none of your comments will be attributed to you directly.

- - If yes: Once I start recording, I am going to confirm that you are ok with me recording this session once more.

Start recording.

- I have started recording. I'd like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record my screen the audio as we talk today?" 

## Warm-up Questions - 10 minutes

Before we look at the website, let’s start with a few warm-up questions.

For participants who have already used the Yellow Ribbon benefit:

- I understand you've used your education benefits, which is great. Are you currently in school?

-I graduated in May (2019) 

- Where are/did you going to school, and what degree?

-Methodist University in North Carolina: BS in computer science and information technology

- I'd love to hear about your research and decision process once you knew you wanted to go to school.

-I decided to go to college because in the military I was in infantry - which didn’t give me any marketable skills, so I didn’t have any other choice.

What stage of your military service were you in when you decided to go to school?

-Probably a year from getting out

How many schools did you apply to?

1 – University of Alaska Anchorage, but I transferred to Methodist. I don’t recall whether YR was used at Alaska, but it was used at Methodist every semester.

Do you recall the factors that made you want to apply to a specific school?

I picked my schools based on location. Not many choices in Alaska, but Methodist was right down the street from my fiancée at the time.

Why did you choose that school, and area of study?

I picked my schools based on location. Not many choices in Alaska, but Methodist was right down the street from my fiancée at the time.

I understand you've used the Yellow Ribbon benefit. Tell me how that benefit works.

I don’t know, but I’m sure you had to be in the military at some point and I think it is supplemental to the GI Bill.

How did Yellow Ribbon benefits play into your decision?

I received post 9/11 GI Bill and other smaller scholarships. I used those to cover housing cost to avoid having a part time job so I could focus on school full-time. I first learned about my benefits in my exit briefing, but it’s hard not to know about the GI Bill. I had no idea what Yellow Ribbon was until I saw my first statement from Methodist. I never applied for it or researched it - it was just given to me.  

What specific methods did you use to research schools, and your VA education benefits?

Google – I usually didn’t look at the VA websites because they are confusing, so I used other websites that had the info. The VA’s page has infinite loops of pages that lead back to each other, so after two attempts on there I haven’t gone back.

### First Task: Find relevant schools in legacy Yellow Ribbon tables - 5 minutes

*Started on home page (va.gov)*

- Tell me how you’d find the yellow ribbon program from here?

Well I see the search menu, so I’ll search for “yellow ribbon” and click the first link.

Then I’d probably click “see if your school participates in the program” first to see if this is something I should keep searching through.

- Start on Yellow Ribbon benefit hub page.

- Find a school they're interested in, and tell me the Yellow Ribbon benefit information for that school

- - If participant is interested in a state with a very small number of rows, once they have completed the task, ask them to react to a state like California with numerous rows.

*used Methodist*

“School or program” is confusing – I think it may be too much to list degree programs that it applies to, so I guess they are just the divisions or schools of Methodist University.

It looks like different schools offer different amounts so I guess I would just keep in mind the number of students they offer it to because that will impact the certainty that I’ll get it. It may not be worth the competition over an amount like 500 dollars. 

- Let’s say you wanted to find Xavier University, how would you go about it?

*Looked alphabetically*

I don’t see it here

If you wanted to reduce the number of results, how would you like to do that?

Maybe just a set of ranges of letters that we could go between. 

Things to watch for:

- How does the participant understand and navigate the accordion pattern?
- How does the participant navigate the table on the state page? (Ctrl+f, manual scroll, etc)

Always manual Scroll

- What emotions/thoughts does the participant verbalize while looking at a table presentation of this data?

Participant understands the layout well, but also seems a bit overwhelmed by the amount of information present at once.

## Second Task: Conduct a search in prototype - 5 minutes

- Go to the other tab we opened earlier, with the prototype.
- Take a look at the content on this page. Tell me what you think this page is for, what you can do here. You can scroll up and down, but don't click on anything just yet. Think aloud as you look.

I like this. I have not had great interactions with things where you just type in a name because of semantic problems. I’d probably have better luck if there were a location dropdown rather than having to type in a name to begin with.

*did not seem to notice that you can search by all or one of the fields*

My first impression was that this was a series of fields to search by rather than choices. 

I like this, it would be helpful to have a filter button (for school programs, degree types offered for money) being able to order the information would be useful to see other than alphabetical info. 

I like the add to compare button. It makes me think that you can add multiple and look at the different characteristics across your top schools. 



Lets imagine you want to find an undergrad degree in illinouis – let’s see those results and tell me what you think of this info and the page.

Prompt: “Looking for art degree – how would you do it?”

I’d probably start with the ones where they offer all degree types or the ones specific to fine arts.

I tried to see if I could click to see more pages (numbers at bottom of page)



- What are your thoughts on the search criteria?



- Let's imagine you live in California, and you're interested in finding an in-state school for a Bachelor's degree. Go ahead and see if you can find that.



- After results are presented:

Again, take a look at the content on this page. Don't click on anything just yet. Tell me what you're looking at, what you can do here. Think aloud as you look.



Imagine you wanted to see this list in a different order, such has highest benefit amount first. How would you do that?



Does the information about each school feel complete to you?



Is the meaning of each piece of information in the card clear to you?



If you wanted to see the next set of schools, how would you do that?

I would’ve just picked the school I wanted to go to and apply the GI Bill, but if I wasn’t sure which school I was going to, I’d keep looking for schools or keep looking through this school list to see which ones would be best between YR and GI Bill to see if I could cover my costs. But I would pick mostly based on the school I want to go to and see if I can cover that often through YR and then other funding. The only time I’d make the decision through YR is if I knew I couldn’t afford it and needed to have it financially covered. 

I’d contact the office at the school because they know how it realistically looks at that school and the process it takes. 

How would you get that contact info?

I’d go to the school’s website.



## Third Task: Compare schools and change criteria - 8 minutes

- Let's say you're interested in [School A, School B, and School C] , and you want to see which one offers Yellow Ribbon to the most students. How would you do that?

- - If student does not use add to compare button and make their way to the comparison table, guide them there

I’d probably try to copy and paste this into a Excel sheet and sort them based on degree type and then amount offered. I don’t see a way to do that on this website. 

The program details and then the number of students who are offered that YR money



- Tell me about this screen - what do you see here, what do you think you can do?



- What are your thoughts on the way this information is presented?

Even though this doesn’t present any new info, I like that you can do it because you can look at only the best ones without having to scroll through all of the other schools

- If you wanted to update this list somehow, how would you do that?



- Now that you have this information about these schools, what would your next step be?



- Imagine you want to go back and search for something different, maybe a specific school, or a different kind of degree. How would you do that?

Back button (top left of window)



## Post-Task Interview - 5 minutes

- Do you have any other thoughts or feedback you haven't had a chance to share yet?

Positives:

The search worked a lot better than I expected and the website itself is designed much better than I’ve experienced with the VA in the past. There isn’t a bunch of garbage on the sides that takes me away from what I’m looking for. It’s a lot more intuitive than I remember it being. 

Negatives:

It was irritating to have to scroll so much to find what I’m looking for and then sorting the results.

I also found it annoying to have to go up and down to see the column headers, so maybe having them floating would be helpful.

Thank-You and Closing - 2 minutes

Well, we really appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us today. Your feedback is so helpful to us as we continue to work on the site and make sure it really works for Veterans.

Thanks! Lastly, do you know any other Veterans, caregivers, or service members who might be willing to participate in a future user research sesson? If Yes: Thank you! I'll have our team send you an email with a little blurb that you can pass along.

Great, well thank you so much again, and enjoy the rest of your day!
