# Yellow Ribbon School Finder Conversation Guide for Moderated Research

## Intro - 5 minutes

Thanks for joining us today! My name is Liz Lantz and I also have some colleagues on the line observing and taking notes. Today we're going to talk about Yellow Ribbon education benefits, and how you, as someone eligible to receive them, understand your benefits and go about using them.

Before we start, a few things I want to mention:

- This entire session should take about 40 minutes. I want to be sure not to keep you much longer, so I may occasionally prompt you with the next question or topic.

- In this session, we want to hear your honest opinions. We are not testing your ability. We just want to improve these tools to better meet Veteran's needs. I will not be offended by any opinions you express, and I welcome your feedback. The more you can think out loud and share what you're thinking as you go through the session, the better.

- You'll be interacting with an interactive prototype. This is means it may not function exactly the way you expect. Some areas of the prototype will be clickable, and some will not. Since it's a demo, none of your actions will affect your actual VA information or benefits.

- If for any reason and at any time you want to stop the session, please let me know.

- Are you comfortable if I record my screen and audio as we talk today? We use the recordings to confirm that we have captured your opinions accurately. The recordings are destroyed after we complete analysis, and none of your comments will be attributed to you directly.

- - If yes: Once I start recording, I am going to confirm that you are ok with me recording this session once more.

Start recording.

- I have started recording. I'd like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record my screen the audio as we talk today?"

## Warm-up Questions - 10 minutes

Before we look at the website, let’s start with a few warm-up questions.

For participants who have already used the Yellow Ribbon benefit:

- I understand you've used your education benefits, which is great. Are you currently in school?

I graduated in 2018. I am considering furthering towards a RN degree and certificate. 



- Where are/did you going to school, and what degree?

I have an Associates as a certified medical assistant.

- I'd love to hear about your research and decision process once you knew you wanted to go to school.

What stage of your military service were you in when you decided to go to school?

I was in the reserves when I decided to go to school. I figured I earned the GI Bill, so I should use it.

How many schools did you apply to?

Only 1 because that school was here in my town. But later it’ll be farther away.

Do you recall the factors that made you want to apply to a specific school?

Location, but also how military friendly they are. I talk to them beforehand – the Financial Aid people and other students who are in the military and go there. Where I went before would work with me when I had to miss classes – they would let me make-up that work I missed if it was for military reasons. 

Why did you choose that school, and area of study?



I understand you've used the Yellow Ribbon benefit. Tell me how that benefit works.



How did Yellow Ribbon benefits play into your decision?



What specific methods did you use to research schools, and your VA education benefits?

Just Google. 

I used my GI Bill but then I was able to transfer over to the post 9/11 GI Bill to finish out my degree with 12 more months of coverage. I already knew I had the GI Bill from when we come off active duty – they tell us about all of the benefits we have. 



## First Task: Find relevant schools in legacy Yellow Ribbon tables - 5 minutes

- Start on Yellow Ribbon benefit hub page.

- Find a school they're interested in, and tell me the Yellow Ribbon benefit information for that school

- - If participant is interested in a state with a very small number of rows, once they have completed the task, ask them to react to a state like California with numerous rows.

*Finding Yellow Ribbon information from va.gov*

To find the Yellow Ribbon benefits I would scroll down to the education block. Then I’d click “compare GI Benefits by school.” I would use the search bar to type and search for Yellow Ribbon benefits. This page looks simple to me because you can find out if you qualify and if you have questions you can answer them. It’s pretty self-explanatory. You’d click “see if you’re school participates in the program” - so I‘d click Pennsylvania and then it gives you an entire list of the schools in Pennsylvania.  



Things to watch for:

- How does the participant understand and navigate the accordion pattern?



- How does the participant navigate the table on the state page? (Ctrl+f, manual scroll, etc)



- What emotions/thoughts does the participant verbalize while looking at a table presentation of this data?



## Second Task: Conduct a search in prototype - 5 minutes

- Go to the other tab we opened earlier, with the prototype.
- Take a look at the content on this page. Tell me what you think this page is for, what you can do here. You can scroll up and down, but don't click on anything just yet. Think aloud as you look.

This shows the colleges that participate in the Yellow Ribbon program and the name, location, and contribution amounts. Does “number of students” mean that is the number of students who can participate? So unlimited would mean there is no limit? – because that’s how I would understand it. My assumption is that they can only have X students who can receive the Yellow Ribbon and then each student would get the X amount in the other column. So it is per student, per year. I have no clue what the division or school means…there are four divisions but maybe it doesn’t matter which division the school is in. But I assume the division is talking about the program because some of them list program types not divisions. I would try to choose the school that covers all programs and that have higher limits to student funding and funding amount. I’d look for colleges that had no restrictions on funding. That leaves your options open for different programs rather than being limited to certain ones. 

*did not seem to realize that they are alphabetically listed*

HEAVILY focused on finding the college that will provide the most funding

I would use the “GI Bill Comparison Tool” to narrow the number of search results for schools. 



- What are your thoughts on the search criteria?



- Let's imagine you live in California, and you're interested in finding an in-state school for a Bachelor's degree. Go ahead and see if you can find that.



- After results are presented:

Again, take a look at the content on this page. Don't click on anything just yet. Tell me what you're looking at, what you can do here. Think aloud as you look.



Imagine you wanted to see this list in a different order, such has highest benefit amount first. How would you do that?



Does the information about each school feel complete to you?



Is the meaning of each piece of information in the card clear to you?



If you wanted to see the next set of schools, how would you do that?



## Third Task: Compare schools and change criteria - 8 minutes

- Let's say you're interested in [School A, School B, and School C] , and you want to see which one offers Yellow Ribbon to the most students. How would you do that?

- - If student does not use add to compare button and make their way to the comparison table, guide them there

- Tell me about this screen - what do you see here, what do you think you can do?



- What are your thoughts on the way this information is presented?



- If you wanted to update this list somehow, how would you do that?



- Now that you have this information about these schools, what would your next step be?



- Imagine you want to go back and search for something different, maybe a specific school, or a different kind of degree. How would you do that?



## Post-Task Interview - 5 minutes

- Do you have any other thoughts or feedback you haven't had a chance to share yet?

I like the VA’s webpage because it is simple and to the point – you can pretty much search for anything and they have so much information. I enjoy the webpage. 

Having an advisor help you fill it out is nice because you don’t have to worry about the process and you can focus on classes and work while it’s taken care of for you.



- Any questions for me?



## Thank-You and Closing - 2 minutes

Well, we really appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us today. Your feedback is so helpful to us as we continue to work on the site and make sure it really works for Veterans.

Thanks! Lastly, do you know any other Veterans, caregivers, or service members who might be willing to participate in a future user research sesson? If Yes: Thank you! I'll have our team send you an email with a little blurb that you can pass along.

Great, well thank you so much again, and enjoy the rest of your day!
