# Yellow Ribbon School Finder Conversation Guide for Moderated Research

## Intro - 5 minutes

Thanks for joining us today! My name is Liz Lantz and I also have some colleagues on the line observing and taking notes. Today we're going to talk about Yellow Ribbon education benefits, and how you, as someone eligible to receive them, understand your benefits and go about using them.

Before we start, a few things I want to mention:

- This entire session should take about 40 minutes. I want to be sure not to keep you much longer, so I may occasionally prompt you with the next question or topic.

- In this session, we want to hear your honest opinions. We are not testing your ability. We just want to improve these tools to better meet Veteran's needs. I will not be offended by any opinions you express, and I welcome your feedback. The more you can think out loud and share what you're thinking as you go through the session, the better.

- You'll be interacting with an interactive prototype. This is means it may not function exactly the way you expect. Some areas of the prototype will be clickable, and some will not. Since it's a demo, none of your actions will affect your actual VA information or benefits.

- If for any reason and at any time you want to stop the session, please let me know.

- Are you comfortable if I record my screen and audio as we talk today? We use the recordings to confirm that we have captured your opinions accurately. The recordings are destroyed after we complete analysis, and none of your comments will be attributed to you directly.

- - If yes: Once I start recording, I am going to confirm that you are ok with me recording this session once more.

Start recording.

- I have started recording. I'd like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record my screen the audio as we talk today?"

## Warm-up Questions - 10 minutes

Before we look at the website, let’s start with a few warm-up questions.

For participants who are in the process of researching their education benefits:

- I understand you're considering going to school, and using your VA education benefits. That's great! Where are you in that process?

I’m looking into programs to utilize the GI Bill. I have an undergrad degree from the national online school. I used tuition assistance with that degree. 

- Do you know what you want to study?



- I'd love to hear about your research and decision process so far.

To research so far I would look at the schools website and ranking websites.

- What stage of your military service were you in when you decided to go to school?



How many schools are you planning on applying to?

If/when I go back to school, I’ll apply to 3-4 different universities

What factors make you want to apply to a specific school?

Some of my most important factors are location and cost.

How have you done your research on schools so far?

How about research on education benefits available to you?

I’m eligible for GI Bill, tuition assistance, and Yellow Ribbon – although I can’t say I fully understand that information because it’s out there, but we don’t get instructed on that. Other than Google searches I’m not aware of ways to get more info on benefits.

Have you encountered anything that made it harder, or easier, to do this research?



Are you familiar with the Yellow Ribbon benefit? Tell me how it works.

*dodged question without answering*

How does it fit into your decision-making process?

How much money they are willing to offer is important because my decision comes down to out-of-pocket cost. 

For all participants:

- How did you first learn what VA education benefits were available to you, and how Yellow Ribbon fit into those benefits?



- Were there any parts of the process that were particularly confusing? If so, how did you get clarification?



- Imagine I don't know anything about VA benefits. Can you tell me how the Yellow Ribbon program works?

No

We're almost ready to move to the website/prototype now, and I'll ask you to do a few tasks related to finding schools and understanding Yellow Ribbon benefits. Before we jump in, can you tell me where you would typically conduct this type of research?



We're almost ready to move to the prototype now, and I'll ask you to do a few tasks related to finding schools and understanding Yellow Ribbon benefits. Before we jump in, can you tell me where you would typically conduct this type of research?

## First Task: Find relevant schools in legacy Yellow Ribbon tables - 5 minutes

- Start on Yellow Ribbon benefit hub page.

- Find a school they're interested in, and tell me the Yellow Ribbon benefit information for that school

- - If participant is interested in a state with a very small number of rows, once they have completed the task, ask them to react to a state like California with numerous rows.

*Finding Yellow Ribbon information from va.gov*

If I’m searching right now my first question is whether the school’s I’m interested in take part in Yellow Ribbon. I’d already have those schools in mind before I start this research. If they aren’t a part of the Yellow Ribbon program, I’d wonder if there is another method that they would be willing to do to meet that same amount to mirror the Yellow Ribbon benefit. I’d click the link that shows whether they participate in Yellow Ribbon. It is broken down by states. I’d expect there to be a search box I could use to search for the school by name – it doesn’t make sense to me why it is broken down by state.

*Prototype:*

This is what I would expect the webpage to look like originally. I can search by the school names and degree type or then even the location. I’d like the page to work where I can leave the school name blank and fill in degree type and maybe location and then see the schools that apply.



Things to watch for:

- How does the participant understand and navigate the accordion pattern?



- How does the participant navigate the table on the state page? (Ctrl+f, manual scroll, etc)



- What emotions/thoughts does the participant verbalize while looking at a table presentation of this data?



## Second Task: Conduct a search in prototype - 5 minutes

- Go to the other tab we opened earlier, with the prototype.
- Take a look at the content on this page. Tell me what you think this page is for, what you can do here. You can scroll up and down, but don't click on anything just yet. Think aloud as you look.

I think it is interesting that there is an option to add to compare. that tells me there is probably a page that will give me just those schools with some addition information. I’d expect it to include degree cost with tuition and other costs. I’d also be interested in the unfunded amount after Yellow Ribbon and a breakdown of what the unfunded amount is and whether it’s per semester or year etc. That would help me determine if I can go to the school. What I learn from here is the max amount of funding, but I don’t know if that is per semester or year…or for the whole degree – I don’t really know what it means. The unlimited funding seems great, but I also don’t really know what that means because everything has a limit – would they cover room and board or where is the cut off? When it says degree type “all” I don’t know what that means either because there’s no way that all of these schools offer every single undergrad degree type. I saw at the top that it is only displaying 10 of 59 schools so if I was looking for a specific school that wasn’t in here, I would have to extend the amount or click through the tabs of pages. As a recommendation I would say to put the tabs of pages display at the top of the page in addition to having it at the bottom to make people aware that that is an available option. An option to adjust the number of results displayed per page would be useful. A filter option would also be helpful where I could choose to display schools based on certain criteria. They seem to be in alphabetical order which makes sense to me, I don’t know any other option that would work for this type of search other than maybe a “most relevant” option. If I could select an option to sort schools by ranking that would be incredible. USNews has a ranking. In general, having more information about the school’s performance would be useful. 



- What are your thoughts on the search criteria?



- Let's imagine you live in California, and you're interested in finding an in-state school for a Bachelor's degree. Go ahead and see if you can find that.



- After results are presented:

Again, take a look at the content on this page. Don't click on anything just yet. Tell me what you're looking at, what you can do here. Think aloud as you look.



Imagine you wanted to see this list in a different order, such has highest benefit amount first. How would you do that?



Does the information about each school feel complete to you?



Is the meaning of each piece of information in the card clear to you?



If you wanted to see the next set of schools, how would you do that?



## Third Task: Compare schools and change criteria - 8 minutes

- Let's say you're interested in [School A, School B, and School C] , and you want to see which one offers Yellow Ribbon to the most students. How would you do that?

- - If student does not use add to compare button and make their way to the comparison table, guide them there

- Tell me about this screen - what do you see here, what do you think you can do?

I see the compare selected school’s option at the bottom. This compare screen has the same information displayed in a different way but for those specific schools. I’d be most interest in the funding amount column – which again I don’t fully understand what it means. 



- What are your thoughts on the way this information is presented?



- If you wanted to update this list somehow, how would you do that?



- Now that you have this information about these schools, what would your next step be?

Now that I’ve seen this info my next step would be to find out my priorities for location and degree requirements. After this page I would reach out to the school itself – the admissions department.

- Imagine you want to go back and search for something different, maybe a specific school, or a different kind of degree. How would you do that?

If I wanted to update this list I would go back to the search with the breadcrumb. The way it displays the previously selected schools is what I would expect, but I’m also not sure. I think I’d like them to still be selected because then if I want to add or replace one I won’t have to go back through all of the schools I just did.

## Post-Task Interview - 5 minutes

- Do you have any other thoughts or feedback you haven't had a chance to share yet?



- Any questions for me?



## Thank-You and Closing - 2 minutes

Well, we really appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us today. Your feedback is so helpful to us as we continue to work on the site and make sure it really works for Veterans.

Thanks! Lastly, do you know any other Veterans, caregivers, or service members who might be willing to participate in a future user research session? If Yes: Thank you! I'll have our team send you an email with a little blurb that you can pass along.

Great, well thank you so much again, and enjoy the rest of your day!
