# Yellow Ribbon School Finder Conversation Guide for Moderated Research

## Intro - 5 minutes

Thanks for joining us today! My name is Liz Lantz and I also have some colleagues on the line observing and taking notes. Today we're going to talk about Yellow Ribbon education benefits, and how you, as someone eligible to receive them, understand your benefits and go about using them.

Before we start, a few things I want to mention:

- This entire session should take about 40 minutes. I want to be sure not to keep you much longer, so I may occasionally prompt you with the next question or topic.

- In this session, we want to hear your honest opinions. We are not testing your ability. We just want to improve these tools to better meet Veteran's needs. I will not be offended by any opinions you express, and I welcome your feedback. The more you can think out loud and share what you're thinking as you go through the session, the better.

- You'll be interacting with an interactive prototype. This is means it may not function exactly the way you expect. Some areas of the prototype will be clickable, and some will not. Since it's a demo, none of your actions will affect your actual VA information or benefits.

- If for any reason and at any time you want to stop the session, please let me know.

- Are you comfortable if I record my screen and audio as we talk today? We use the recordings to confirm that we have captured your opinions accurately. The recordings are destroyed after we complete analysis, and none of your comments will be attributed to you directly.

- - If yes: Once I start recording, I am going to confirm that you are ok with me recording this session once more.

Start recording.

- I have started recording. I'd like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record my screen the audio as we talk today?"

## Warm-up Questions - 10 minutes

Before we look at the website, let’s start with a few warm-up questions.

For participants who are in the process of researching their education benefits:

- I understand you're considering going to school and using your VA education benefits. That's great! Where are you in that process?

I have not done research on specific schools so far. If I were to find out about the benefits available to me, I’d search online and then go to a VA office near me and they could probably help me. 

- Do you know what you want to study?



- I'd love to hear about your research and decision process so far.

What stage of your military service were you in when you decided to go to school?



How many schools are you planning on applying to?



What factors make you want to apply to a specific school?

Location and cost are important to me because I want to be able to drive to it.

How have you done your research on schools so far?



How about research on education benefits available to you?



Have you encountered anything that made it harder, or easier, to do this research?



Are you familiar with the Yellow Ribbon benefit? Tell me how it works.



How does it fit into your decision making process?



For all participants:

- How did you first learn what VA education benefits were available to you, and how Yellow Ribbon fit into those benefits?



- Were there any parts of the process that were particularly confusing? If so, how did you get clarification?



- Imagine I don't know anything about VA benefits. Can you tell me how the Yellow Ribbon program works?



We're almost ready to move to the prototype now, and I'll ask you to do a few tasks related to finding schools and understanding Yellow Ribbon benefits. Before we jump in, can you tell me where you would typically conduct this type of research?

## First Task: Find relevant schools in legacy Yellow Ribbon tables - 5 minutes

- Start on Yellow Ribbon benefit hub page.

- Find a school they're interested in, and tell me the Yellow Ribbon benefit information for that school

- - If participant is interested in a state with a very small number of rows, once they have completed the task, ask them to react to a state like California with numerous rows.

*Finding Yellow Ribbon information from va.gov*

I’m looking for a Yellow Ribbon breadcrumb but I’m not seeing anything. From this page I would use the tabs on the left to see if there is an option for it. I’d probably click apply just to see what happens. 

*Guided to Yellow Ribbon page due to time constraint*

 This page is really good. I see the options for seeing which schools qualify and seeing if I qualify for it. And then I’d click to see which schools apply. 



Things to watch for:

- How does the participant understand and navigate the accordion pattern?



- How does the participant navigate the table on the state page? (Ctrl+f, manual scroll, etc)



- What emotions/thoughts does the participant verbalize while looking at a table presentation of this data?



## Second Task: Conduct a search in prototype - 5 minutes

- Go to the other tab we opened earlier, with the prototype.
- Take a look at the content on this page. Tell me what you think this page is for, what you can do here. You can scroll up and down, but don't click on anything just yet. Think aloud as you look.

*Prototype:*

This is pretty straightforward. 

- What are your thoughts on the search criteria?

I see you can look by different characteristics and it prompts you to type in the school name and it has some other fields too. It looks like all of the fields here would need to be filled in. There would probably be one of those red prompts that says you’re missing one of the fields if you didn’t fill it out.

- Let's imagine you live in California, and you're interested in finding an in-state school for a Bachelor's degree. Go ahead and see if you can find that.

To look for a school in Illinois I would start by searching for the school’s name. Once I get the search results it gives you all of the schools that are participating in the program.

- After results are presented:

Again, take a look at the content on this page. Don't click on anything just yet. Tell me what you're looking at, what you can do here. Think aloud as you look.

I see it gives information for each school. I see the funding amount and number of students and program type. For example: the school would have funding for 20 students and the max amount is 20,000. Add to compare is interesting, but I don’t know what it really is or how it works. If I was looking for York University I would type the school name into the search bar. 

Imagine you wanted to see this list in a different order, such has highest benefit amount first. How would you do that?



Does the information about each school feel complete to you?



Is the meaning of each piece of information in the card clear to you?



If you wanted to see the next set of schools, how would you do that?



## Third Task: Compare schools and change criteria - 8 minutes

- Let's say you're interested in [School A, School B, and School C] , and you want to see which one offers Yellow Ribbon to the most students. How would you do that?

- - If student does not use add to compare button and make their way to the comparison table, guide them there

- Tell me about this screen - what do you see here, what do you think you can do?

The compare schools page gives you the programs and all the information. This is helpful. What’s the red X? It doesn’t make sense to me unless it gives you another format for that university.

If I clicked on the name of the school, I’d expect to see a more detail description of the school and program and the curriculum. I don’t know what ALL PROGRAMS means. It doesn’t tell you which programs they offer but just that all of their programs can be funded. 

- What are your thoughts on the way this information is presented?



- If you wanted to update this list somehow, how would you do that?



- Now that you have this information about these schools, what would your next step be?



- Imagine you want to go back and search for something different, maybe a specific school, or a different kind of degree. How would you do that?



## Post-Task Interview - 5 minutes

- Do you have any other thoughts or feedback you haven't had a chance to share yet?



- Any questions for me?



## Thank-You and Closing - 2 minutes

Well, we really appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us today. Your feedback is so helpful to us as we continue to work on the site and make sure it really works for Veterans.

Thanks! Lastly, do you know any other Veterans, caregivers, or service members who might be willing to participate in a future user research sesson? If Yes: Thank you! I'll have our team send you an email with a little blurb that you can pass along.

Great, well thank you so much again, and enjoy the rest of your day!
