# Yellow Ribbon School Finder Conversation Guide for Moderated Research

## Intro - 5 minutes

Thanks for joining us today! My name is Liz Lantz and I also have some colleagues on the line observing and taking notes. Today we're going to talk about Yellow Ribbon education benefits, and how you, as someone eligible to receive them, understand your benefits and go about using them.

Before we start, a few things I want to mention:

- This entire session should take about 40 minutes. I want to be sure not to keep you much longer, so I may occasionally prompt you with the next question or topic.

- In this session, we want to hear your honest opinions. We are not testing your ability. We just want to improve these tools to better meet Veteran's needs. I will not be offended by any opinions you express, and I welcome your feedback. The more you can think out loud and share what you're thinking as you go through the session, the better.

- You'll be interacting with an interactive prototype. This is means it may not function exactly the way you expect. Some areas of the prototype will be clickable, and some will not. Since it's a demo, none of your actions will affect your actual VA information or benefits.

- If for any reason and at any time you want to stop the session, please let me know.

- Are you comfortable if I record my screen and audio as we talk today? We use the recordings to confirm that we have captured your opinions accurately. The recordings are destroyed after we complete analysis, and none of your comments will be attributed to you directly.

- - If yes: Once I start recording, I am going to confirm that you are ok with me recording this session once more.

Start recording.

- I have started recording. I'd like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record my screen the audio as we talk today?"

## Warm-up Questions - 10 minutes

Before we look at the website, let’s start with a few warm-up questions.

For participants who are in the process of researching their education benefits:

- I understand you're considering going to school, and using your VA education benefits. That's great! Where are you in that process?

I have a bachelor’s in digital design. I’m looking for schools to extend my degree to something that doesn’t require me to sit in front of a screen all day – teaching.  

- Do you know what you want to study?



- I'd love to hear about your research and decision process so far.

What stage of your military service were you in when you decided to go to school?



How many schools are you planning on applying to?



What factors make you want to apply to a specific school?

The funding. I want to know everything that I am eligible for because I want to come away without any debt. 

How have you done your research on schools so far?

A couple different angles. I’ve looked at programs first and then looked for veteran service coordinators, which makes it hard to get information. I’ve also gone directly to the US department of education as well as the VA websites. I’ve also contact the education resource people within the state here and what I’ve found that the information is very overwhelming. 

How about research on education benefits available to you?



Have you encountered anything that made it harder, or easier, to do this research?



Are you familiar with the Yellow Ribbon benefit? Tell me how it works.

I started backwards – I started with the GI Bill and was told about Yellow Ribbon from a fellow veteran, but I haven’t found much information. I’d like to explore it more, but nobody has seemed to know too much about it. I’d like to use Yellow Ribbon first so that I can pass my GI Bill down to my kids.

The only thing I know about Yellow Ribbon is conflicting. Some veterans have told me that its only post 9/11 and others have told me its for all veterans. Even when I look it up, its conflicting info. 

How does it fit into your decision-making process?



Can you describe the environment you would typically be in?

In my living room at home on a laptop. 

For all participants:

- How did you first learn what VA education benefits were available to you, and how Yellow Ribbon fit into those benefits?



- Were there any parts of the process that were particularly confusing? If so, how did you get clarification?



- Imagine I don't know anything about VA benefits. Can you tell me how the Yellow Ribbon program works?



We're almost ready to move to the prototype now, and I'll ask you to do a few tasks related to finding schools and understanding Yellow Ribbon benefits. Before we jump in, can you tell me where you would typically conduct this type of research?

## First Task: Find relevant schools in legacy Yellow Ribbon tables - 5 minutes

*Start on VA.GOV*

Under the education section I see the “check your post 9/11 GI Bill benefits.” That gets confusing because I am both pre and post 9/11 and the rest of the tabs don’t apply to me so I guess I would use the tab that says “apply.”

*walked through each section on the page, none applied / were related to Yellow Ribbon*

I would click the apply button since none of this applied to me, but I still don’t have any other information.

*walked through how to get to YR page*

To me, Yellow Ribbon is separate form the GI Bill, so I never would’ve found that.



- Start on Yellow Ribbon benefit hub page.

I like the option to find out if you apply because that will make sure I’m not wasting my time. The tabs below it with information are good and it tells me there is a cap on the number of students who can get the funding. I like it simple and I like a checklist.

The section for finding out if my school participates in the Yellow Ribbon program is fine, but it doesn’t say anything about online. Where would I go for that? 

- Find a school they're interested in, and tell me the Yellow Ribbon benefit information for that school

- - If participant is interested in a state with a very small number of rows, once they have completed the task, ask them to react to a state like California with numerous rows.

Things to watch for:

- How does the participant understand and navigate the accordion pattern?



- How does the participant navigate the table on the state page? (Ctrl+f, manual scroll, etc)



- What emotions/thoughts does the participant verbalize while looking at a table presentation of this data?



## Second Task: Conduct a search in prototype - 5 minutes

- Go to the other tab we opened earlier, with the prototype.
- Take a look at the content on this page. Tell me what you think this page is for, what you can do here. You can scroll up and down, but don't click on anything just yet. Think aloud as you look.

I like that it’s straightforward. The first thing I would do is click to find out if I qualify. I love that it’s simple and straightforward. There’s no extra info or pop-ups. 

- What are your thoughts on the search criteria?

To find my school I’d start with the school’s name, but I like that it uses all or one of the categories so I can go as specific as I want. At this stage, I would have some specific schools in mind, but I’d be open to finding a new one depending on their programs/benefits.

- Let's imagine you live in California, and you're interested in finding an in-state school for a Bachelor's degree. Go ahead and see if you can find that.

I’d click degree type. *prepopulates* and then I’d click search. 

- After results are presented:

Again, take a look at the content on this page. Don't click on anything just yet. Tell me what you're looking at, what you can do here. Think aloud as you look.

I don’t understand what “unlimited” under funding amount means. “All” degree types is clear and the funding for students makes sense but the funding amount is unclear. What does unlimited mean? When there is a specific amount, I don’t know if the amount is per student or overall? This is exactly what I would’ve hoped it’d be. Its clear and straightforward. I like the add to compare option, I assume it would put the schools side by side with their info. To find a specific school I would either use the search option or look alphabetically. I don’t see a way to further narrow down the results beyond the original criteria.

Imagine you wanted to see this list in a different order, such has highest benefit amount first. How would you do that?

I would just have to scroll down through each of the results because I can’t narrow down by business programs. 

Does the information about each school feel complete to you?



Is the meaning of each piece of information in the card clear to you?



If you wanted to see the next set of schools, how would you do that?



## Third Task: Compare schools and change criteria - 8 minutes

- Let's say you're interested in [School A, School B, and School C] , and you want to see which one offers Yellow Ribbon to the most students. How would you do that?

- - If student does not use add to compare button and make their way to the comparison table, guide them there

- Tell me about this screen - what do you see here, what do you think you can do?

Once I selected the 3 schools, I would click the option to compare the 3 schools. This compare page shows me the school’s info nicely, but I’d like a box that differentiates online or in a campus. 

What are your thoughts on the way this information is presented?

When I clicked “add to compare”, I would’ve expected the notification to be at the top of the screen, not the bottom because the bottom is where junk usually pops up (downloads, cookies notifications, etc…). I would expect the compare bar to be the blue of the rest of the screen to match, rather than green.

- If you wanted to update this list somehow, how would you do that?

To remove schools I’d click the red X and to add more I’d go back to the search results.

- Now that you have this information about these schools, what would your next step be?

Next, I would want more info that is school specific. I’d want the schools name to be clickable to give me contact info at each school.

- Imagine you want to go back and search for something different, maybe a specific school, or a different kind of degree. How would you do that?

The back arrow. If I re-click the add to compare button again, I’d expect it to unadd the school from the list. 

## Post-Task Interview - 5 minutes

- Do you have any other thoughts or feedback you haven't had a chance to share yet?



- Any questions for me?

I’d like to see a differentiating piece between online/campus/both. I wouldn’t expect online programs to be in this list because it searches by geographic location. 

## Thank-You and Closing - 2 minutes

Well, we really appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us today. Your feedback is so helpful to us as we continue to work on the site and make sure it really works for Veterans.

Thanks! Lastly, do you know any other Veterans, caregivers, or service members who might be willing to participate in a future user research sesson? If Yes: Thank you! I'll have our team send you an email with a little blurb that you can pass along.

Great, well thank you so much again, and enjoy the rest of your day!
