# Yellow Ribbon School Finder Conversation Guide for Moderated Research

## Intro - 5 minutes

Thanks for joining us today! My name is Liz Lantz and I also have some colleagues on the line observing and taking notes. Today we're going to talk about Yellow Ribbon education benefits, and how you, as someone eligible to receive them, understand your benefits and go about using them.

Before we start, a few things I want to mention:

- This entire session should take about 40 minutes. I want to be sure not to keep you much longer, so I may occasionally prompt you with the next question or topic.

- In this session, we want to hear your honest opinions. We are not testing your ability. We just want to improve these tools to better meet Veteran's needs. I will not be offended by any opinions you express, and I welcome your feedback. The more you can think out loud and share what you're thinking as you go through the session, the better.

- You'll be interacting with an interactive prototype. This is means it may not function exactly the way you expect. Some areas of the prototype will be clickable, and some will not. Since it's a demo, none of your actions will affect your actual VA information or benefits.

- If for any reason and at any time you want to stop the session, please let me know.

- Are you comfortable if I record my screen and audio as we talk today? We use the recordings to confirm that we have captured your opinions accurately. The recordings are destroyed after we complete analysis, and none of your comments will be attributed to you directly.

- - If yes: Once I start recording, I am going to confirm that you are ok with me recording this session once more.

Start recording.

- I have started recording. I'd like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record my screen the audio as we talk today?"

## Warm-up Questions - 10 minutes

Before we look at the website, let’s start with a few warm-up questions.

For participants who are in the process of researching their education benefits:

- I understand you're considering going to school, and using your VA education benefits. That's great! Where are you in that process?

I’m always interested in bettering myself. I’m in the early stages of pursuing an MBA. My employment opportunities are limited and I think I can be doing more in my life so I want some credentials to make myself stand out. I have a BA in communications and psychology. 

- Do you know what you want to study?



- I'd love to hear about your research and decision process so far.

What stage of your military service were you in when you decided to go to school?

Many stages. When I finished, I was out. I did them intermittently throughout military service. 

How many schools are you planning on applying to?



What factors make you want to apply to a specific school?

Some important factors for a new school would be the professors themselves and how they structure the class.

How have you done your research on schools so far?

So far, Google. 

How about research on education benefits available to you?

GI Bill, funding contracts, VOC Rehab, and apparently Yellow Ribbon.

Have you encountered anything that made it harder, or easier, to do this research?

It can be hard to get information from certain agencies because the employees seem to be overworked and we are more of numbers in their system. 

Are you familiar with the Yellow Ribbon benefit? Tell me how it works.

No, I don’t know much about it.

How does it fit into your decision-making process?

They are paramount. I wouldn’t go to a school that hasn’t worked with the VA and these programs before because them I’m on the hook for everything. 

\###For all participants:

- How did you first learn what VA education benefits were available to you, and how Yellow Ribbon fit into those benefits?



- Were there any parts of the process that were particularly confusing? If so, how did you get clarification?



- Imagine I don't know anything about VA benefits. Can you tell me how the Yellow Ribbon program works?



- Can you describe the environment you would typically be in when doing this research?

At home on the couch with my computer.



We're almost ready to move to the prototype now, and I'll ask you to do a few tasks related to finding schools and understanding Yellow Ribbon benefits. Before we jump in, can you tell me where you would typically conduct this type of research?

## First Task: Find relevant schools in legacy Yellow Ribbon tables - 5 minutes

*Finding Yellow Ribbon information from va.gov*

I would start under the education section and click on the post 9/11 GI Bill section. I don’t see anything on this page, so I would use the search bar. From this Yellow Ribbon page is a brief overview. I guess I’m a little confused because I thought post 9/11 covered everything. Some schools do or don’t participate. So it looks like its separate from the GI Bill in terms of getting the funding. 

- Start on Yellow Ribbon benefit hub page.

- Find a school they're interested in, and tell me the Yellow Ribbon benefit information for that school

- - If participant is interested in a state with a very small number of rows, once they have completed the task, ask them to react to a state like California with numerous rows.

Things to watch for:

- How does the participant understand and navigate the accordion pattern?



- How does the participant navigate the table on the state page? (Ctrl+f, manual scroll, etc)



- What emotions/thoughts does the participant verbalize while looking at a table presentation of this data?



## Second Task: Conduct a search in prototype - 5 minutes

- Go to the other tab we opened earlier, with the prototype.
- Take a look at the content on this page. Tell me what you think this page is for, what you can do here. You can scroll up and down, but don't click on anything just yet. Think aloud as you look.

I’m assuming this is where I would find a Yellow Ribbon school that participates. I’d enter the school name and search it. The number of students who can receive the funding and the max amount plays a factor. It would have to be a school that I’m interested in and would need to match the program type. What are your thoughts on the search criteria?



- Let's imagine you live in California, and you're interested in finding an in-state school for a Bachelor's degree. Go ahead and see if you can find that.



- After results are presented:

Again, take a look at the content on this page. Don't click on anything just yet. Tell me what you're looking at, what you can do here. Think aloud as you look.

To reduce the number of options I would specify the search criteria. I don’t see any other ways to reduce the number of schools. 



Imagine you wanted to see this list in a different order, such has highest benefit amount first. How would you do that?



Does the information about each school feel complete to you?



Is the meaning of each piece of information in the card clear to you?

I assume the max funding amount to be per student.

If you wanted to see the next set of schools, how would you do that?



## Third Task: Compare schools and change criteria - 8 minutes

- Let's say you're interested in [School A, School B, and School C] , and you want to see which one offers Yellow Ribbon to the most students. How would you do that?

- - If student does not use add to compare button and make their way to the comparison table, guide them there

- Tell me about this screen - what do you see here, what do you think you can do?

Adding the schools to the compare feature gives you a more streamlined way to look at the schools that you’re interested in and their info. I would hope I can click on one of these to get more information. 

- What are your thoughts on the way this information is presented?



- If you wanted to update this list somehow, how would you do that?

To remove one of the schools, I would use the red X.

- Now that you have this information about these schools, what would your next step be?



- Imagine you want to go back and search for something different, maybe a specific school, or a different kind of degree. How would you do that?

If I went back to the search results, I would expect it to be the same results we were just looking at. If I re-click the add to compare button, would expect it to un-add.



## Post-Task Interview - 5 minutes

- Do you have any other thoughts or feedback you haven't had a chance to share yet?

I think it would be good if they advertised the Yellow Ribbon Benefit more.

- Any questions for me?



## Thank-You and Closing - 2 minutes

Well, we really appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us today. Your feedback is so helpful to us as we continue to work on the site and make sure it really works for Veterans.

Thanks! Lastly, do you know any other Veterans, caregivers, or service members who might be willing to participate in a future user research sesson? If Yes: Thank you! I'll have our team send you an email with a little blurb that you can pass along.

Great, well thank you so much again, and enjoy the rest of your day!
