# Yellow Ribbon School Finder Conversation Guide for Moderated Research

## Intro - 5 minutes

Thanks for joining us today! My name is Liz Lantz and I also have some colleagues on the line observing and taking notes. Today we're going to talk about Yellow Ribbon education benefits, and how you, as someone eligible to receive them, understand your benefits and go about using them.

Before we start, a few things I want to mention:

- This entire session should take about 40 minutes. I want to be sure not to keep you much longer, so I may occasionally prompt you with the next question or topic.

- In this session, we want to hear your honest opinions. We are not testing your ability. We just want to improve these tools to better meet Veteran's needs. I will not be offended by any opinions you express, and I welcome your feedback. The more you can think out loud and share what you're thinking as you go through the session, the better.

- You'll be interacting with an interactive prototype. This is means it may not function exactly the way you expect. Some areas of the prototype will be clickable, and some will not. Since it's a demo, none of your actions will affect your actual VA information or benefits.

- If for any reason and at any time you want to stop the session, please let me know.

- Are you comfortable if I record my screen and audio as we talk today? We use the recordings to confirm that we have captured your opinions accurately. The recordings are destroyed after we complete analysis, and none of your comments will be attributed to you directly.

- - If yes: Once I start recording, I am going to confirm that you are ok with me recording this session once more.

Start recording.

- I have started recording. I'd like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record my screen the audio as we talk today?"

## Warm-up Questions - 10 minutes

Before we look at the website, let’s start with a few warm-up questions.

For participants who are in the process of researching their education benefits:

- I understand you're considering going to school, and using your VA education benefits. That's great! Where are you in that process?

I’m currently active duty and I’m planning to transition out of active duty soon. Some injuries are making me want to change what I do and that leads me to education. I’m not positive what I want to study but I’m looking at the healthcare field to possibly be a physician. 

- Do you know what you want to study?



- I'd love to hear about your research and decision process so far.

What stage of your military service were you in when you decided to go to school?

Active duty. About a year and a half ago.

How many schools are you planning on applying to?

A lot – no specific number

What factors make you want to apply to a specific school?

How well it will prepare me and allow me to reach my goals. Also, the kind of financial assistance I can take advantage of.

How have you done your research on schools so far?

A lot of Google searches.

How about research on education benefits available to you?

GI Bill, Yellow Ribbon - if the school participates, VOC rehab, other scholarships. I learned about these through briefings and a lot of Google searches. I used the VA website, Reddit and the school’s websites.

Have you encountered anything that made it harder, or easier, to do this research?

Easier – first-hand or primary info within a Google search

Harder – No definitive explanations of programs

Are you familiar with the Yellow Ribbon benefit? Tell me how it works.

I’ve Googled it. From my understanding it is most commonly used privately. A university would accept the GI Bill and fund the other portion with Yellow Ribbon.

How does it fit into your decision-making process?

Expenses are a priority. This funding opens more doors that would have been financially closed.

Describe the environment you’d be in during this research.

I have a workstation in our living room. Its well-lit and could be quiet…or there could be screaming from kids in the background.

For all participants:

- How did you first learn what VA education benefits were available to you, and how Yellow Ribbon fit into those benefits?



- Were there any parts of the process that were particularly confusing? If so, how did you get clarification?



- Imagine I don't know anything about VA benefits. Can you tell me how the Yellow Ribbon program works?



We're almost ready to move to the prototype now, and I'll ask you to do a few tasks related to finding schools and understanding Yellow Ribbon benefits. Before we jump in, can you tell me where you would typically conduct this type of research?

## First Task: Find relevant schools in legacy Yellow Ribbon tables - 5 minutes

*Finding Yellow Ribbon information from the VA.GOV homepage*

I’d usually not use a page like this, but I’d start with the education section. I don’t see anything that screams yellow ribbon…so I’d start with “change your education benefits.” I don’t see anything here, so I’ll use the search function which gives me a couple of different pages. I’ll open a couple of these in the off chance that it isn’t in the first one. From this page, the layout is pretty good and organized well. It’s a lot of information all on the same page. It seems like this is THE PAGE to find out everything I’ll need to know about Yellow Ribbon. 

- Start on Yellow Ribbon benefit hub page.

- Find a school they're interested in, and tell me the Yellow Ribbon benefit information for that school

- - If participant is interested in a state with a very small number of rows, once they have completed the task, ask them to react to a state like California with numerous rows.

Things to watch for:

- How does the participant understand and navigate the accordion pattern?



- How does the participant navigate the table on the state page? (Ctrl+f, manual scroll, etc)



- What emotions/thoughts does the participant verbalize while looking at a table presentation of this data?



## Second Task: Conduct a search in prototype - 5 minutes

- Go to the other tab we opened earlier, with the prototype.
- Take a look at the content on this page. Tell me what you think this page is for, what you can do here. You can scroll up and down, but don't click on anything just yet. Think aloud as you look.

It seems pretty upfront. It has the search fields and I assume it would tell me how much money I could get if my school participates in the programs. I expect this to be tiered, so I expect there to be a lot of options in there indented to the right with other options that become more specific depending on your previous choices. Or possibly just a simple list.

- What are your thoughts on the search criteria?
- Let's imagine you live in California, and you're interested in finding an in-state school for a Bachelor's degree. Go ahead and see if you can find that.



- After results are presented:

Again, take a look at the content on this page. Don't click on anything just yet. Tell me what you're looking at, what you can do here. Think aloud as you look.

It’s a page with 10 of 59 schools and appears to be in alphabetical order. There’s info for each school in their block. 

To find a specific university I could either search for the school name or just go where Y (York University) is, probably page 4. To reduce the number of options I could do it by name or location/campus if it were tiered the way I mentioned. 



Imagine you wanted to see this list in a different order, such has highest benefit amount first. How would you do that?

Being able to sort the school by the metrics in the blocks would be helpful.

Does the information about each school feel complete to you?



Is the meaning of each piece of information in the card clear to you?

It appears that some have unlimited slots and others are limited. Some have a certain amount of money which can go up to unlimited. So the students would receive the max funding EACH. The funding I could get is a large factor in my decision.

If you wanted to see the next set of schools, how would you do that?



## Third Task: Compare schools and change criteria - 8 minutes

- Let's say you're interested in [School A, School B, and School C] , and you want to see which one offers Yellow Ribbon to the most students. How would you do that?

- - If student does not use add to compare button and make their way to the comparison table, guide them there

- Tell me about this screen - what do you see here, what do you think you can do?

I’d like to condense the information to eventually get down to one school. Once I selected one, a green box popped up to notify me, so I know its added. Once I’ve added them, I would click compare schools (referred to it as blue). 



- What are your thoughts on the way this information is presented?

It appears to be the same info but displayed in a easier to read fashion and with only the school I was looking at. I expected there to be additional information now (student-teacher ratio, graduation rate, housing costs, employment % post-graduation). The maximum funding amount is very important. 

- If you wanted to update this list somehow, how would you do that?

The red X would also let me remove a school from the list.

- Now that you have this information about these schools, what would your next step be?

Once I had my schools finalized, I would want to look further into the school – probably by going to their website or a Google search. 

- Imagine you want to go back and search for something different, maybe a specific school, or a different kind of degree. How would you do that?

I would use the green bar to go back to the search results which would maintain the info from before but also allow me to adjust it.

## Post-Task Interview - 5 minutes

- Do you have any other thoughts or feedback you haven't had a chance to share yet?



- Any questions for me?



## Thank-You and Closing - 2 minutes

Well, we really appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us today. Your feedback is so helpful to us as we continue to work on the site and make sure it really works for Veterans.

Thanks! Lastly, do you know any other Veterans, caregivers, or service members who might be willing to participate in a future user research session? If Yes: Thank you! I'll have our team send you an email with a little blurb that you can pass along.

Great, well thank you so much again, and enjoy the rest of your day!
