# Sprint planning priorities: April - June 2024 (Q2)

## 4.25.24 - 5.8.24

Roughly in priority order:

### Identity integration support

- Launch TOU
- Continue to support other in-flight efforts (eg. accredited rep, etc)

### General platform support

- Provide support to VFS teams as needed
- Identity SDK project & CAIA issues
- Wrap support project --  identify metrics to help tell us if we moved the needle
- SLA work

### Removing dependencies work

- SiS Isolation

### Fraud-related support

- Samara to review Charlye's demo presentation and come up with next steps for discussion

~- [Maybe] Run a team meeting to discuss effort and impact of proposed improvements~
  ~- Charlye is presenting on this at demo tomorrow. We may not need further discussion, but we can schedule something if we do.~

### Sign-in user experience

Let's conduct a phase 0 to onboard our team to this portfolio. This work will likely take 1 - 2 sprints. 

Goal: Our team has an understanding of the user-facing sign-in landscape beyond the unified sign-in page.

- Review [Mikki's audit for account creation and sign-in flows](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/blob/master/products/identity/login/discovery/account-creation-and-singn-in-flow-audit.pdf)
- Review [latest content updates made by CAIA](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/issues/76785) -- this is for knowledge purposes only. We do not need to offer feedback on their changes.
- Potential idea: If the team feels it would be helpful, I would encourage you to meet with Mikki/Danielle/CAIA folks to talk about issues they've encountered around sign-in flows
- Potential idea: Ask in Slack for other teams' research insights around sign-in (sign-in frustration comes up frequently in research)
- **What else would the team find helpful?**

## 5.9.24 - 5.22.24

Roughly in priority order:

### Identity integration support

- **ToU**: Launch to MHV on 5/15
- Continue to support other in-flight efforts
  - BTSSS (this work is on hold for our team until they come back to us)
  - Chatbot (this work is on hold for our team until they come back to us)
  - VAOS -- Slowly releasing SiS token integration
  - [Other work not in flight]
- Mobile > VA.gov SSO: Discovery, scoping, and planning
- CHAMPVA form authentication: Discovery, scoping, and planning

### General platform support

- Provide support to VFS teams as needed
- Identity SDK project
- Support project
  - UAT for slackbot
  - Comms around support bot
- Improving maintenance window communication: Discovery to support design system updates

### SiS Isolation 

- Continued work
  - Pause after this sprint to focus on mobile work, then will come back to this

### Sign-in user experience

- Finish discovery
- If we feel like discovery is done, create Github summary of our findings that outlines key issues.
  - [Here is an example of a generative research report](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/blob/master/products/identity-personalization/onboarding/discovery-research/2024-03-onboarding-generative-research/findings-summary.md), though what this team creates should be tailored to their discovery and does not need to copy this exactly.
 
## General

- Meet to discuss sign-in service overview
