# Notes: 534EZ usability testing

## Warm-up Questions

1. I understand you are a surviving spouse/child of a Veteran. Is that right?
    - Thanks for confirming that.
2. What kind of device are you using today? (Computer / Tablet / Smartphone)
    - Mobile probe: if Smartphone, ask about any specific challenges they face using government websites on a mobile device.
3. What web browser do you use? (Chrome / Firefox / Edge / Safari / _______)
4. I will be sharing a web page link with you during the session. How would you prefer to receive the URL? I could dictate it to you, or put it in the Zoom chat.
5. What do you know about survivor benefits?
6. Are you familiar with how to get survivor benefits?
    - (If Y) Have you applied for survivor benefits in the past? i.
        - (If Y) Can you tell me about your experience? (when, how, results)
            - Once you realized you might be eligible for benefits, what was the very first step you took to get started?
            - Where did you go to find information about what you were entitled to?
            - Did you experience any difficulty finding information”
                - If Y: At what point in the process did that occur?
            - Were there any aspects of that application experience, positive or negative, that stand out in your memory?
                - (If Y)Can you talk about that?
    - (If N) No problem. You'll learn about it as we go through this session.
        - As someone new to this process, what are your immediate thoughts or concerns about applying for VA benefits for the first time?

## User Tasks

### First Task: Wayfinding

- First we’re going to look at the VA home page at this URL: [staging.va.gov](https://staging.va.gov/)
- If you wanted to learn more about survivors benefits, what would you do first on VA.gov?  
    - Prompt: How would you go about finding this specific form on the VA.gov site?
    - Note what they would use*: Google / VA.gov / key words looking/searching for: _______________________
- Do you understand the difference between Dependency and Indemnity Compensation (DIC), Survivors Pension, and Accrued Benefits?
    - If N: can you show me where you would go to find that information?

***The new test form is not especially searchable/findable yet on staging, so they may demo their approach - but reassure them that it may not be effective on the test site. So your results here may not actually surface the form - but I’m interested in how you would go about looking for it** 

### Second Task: Open form

Let's suppose that your search (Google/VA.gov) led you to the web page that I'm going to show you. I'd like you to try to use it as if you were applying for VA benefits. As you work, please share your feedback while you're doing that. I'm interested in your impressions of what you see, any questions that you have, and how you feel about what you're doing. I'll have you start from a URL that I'm going to \[dictate/put into the Zoom chat\] for you to use: [https://staging.va.gov/family-and-caregiver-benefits/survivor-compensation/apply-for-dic-survivors-pension-accrued-benefits-form-21p-534ez/introduction](https://staging.va.gov/family-and-caregiver-benefits/survivor-compensation/apply-for-dic-survivors-pension-accrued-benefits-form-21p-534ez/introduction) (Use a bit.ly URL!)

**Please look over the section under “Follow these steps to get started.” Do the steps make sense to you?** 

### Third Task: Go through questions in form

Please try to **talk aloud** about what you're thinking and what you plan to do BEFORE selecting anything.

(RECORD all feedback on questions and if they get an alert to provide a supporting document)

- If you had to stop and come back to the form, would you know how to save your progress and return?

*Note: This form uses conditional logic, certain questions don’t appear on every flow. The following steps highlight key pages where we could prompt participants for feedback.*

Let’s go on, and just talk through your thought process as you go. 

* Intro screen  
* Step 1: Veteran info  
* Step 2: Claimant info  
  * Relationship  
    * They need to select anything but **Other** to continue through form  
    * If they select **Other** and continue to “This form might not be right for you” page:   
      * What was your expectation when you selected 'Other'?  
      * *Navigate back a page and select a different relationship.*  
  * Benefit type  
    * In your own words, what is the benefit you selected *for*?  
    * Is there any term on this page that feels unfamiliar or confusing?
    * Do you feel confident that you selected the right benefit type for your situation (DIC vs. Survivors Pension vs. Accrued Benefits)? Why or why not?
* Step 3: Military history  
* Step 4: Household info  
  * *Surviving spouses will see marriage and dependent sections*  
    * Marriage end  
      * If married to Veteran at time of death, on “When and where did your marriage end?” page:  
        * What information would you enter for these fields?  
        * How does the wording of these questions feel to you?  
      * Previous marriages  
        * (Throughout flow) How do you feel about the amount of detail being requested here?  
        * (Throughout flow) Does providing this information raise any concerns for you?  
        * If married at time of death, on “When and where did your marriage end?” pages:  
          * What information would you enter for these fields?  
          * How does the wording of this question feel to you?  
  * *Dependents will see dependent section only*  
    * (Intro page) In your own words, who does the form consider a 'dependent' for this section?  
* Step 5: Claim info  
  * If they see DIC benefits page  
    * On a scale of 1-5, how certain are you that this specific DIC type is the correct benefit for your situation?  
    * What might be unclear to you, if anything?  
  * Treatment list and loop  
    * If you were completing this at home right now, would you have this information handy, or would you have to pause the application to find it?  
* Step 6: Financial info  
  * There are several alerts in this section that tell participants to obtain supporting documents. If an alert appears, before continuing to the next page, ask:  
    * Please tell me about what you see here.  
    * What information, if any, stands out to you?  
    * What would you do now?  
  * Income and assets  
    * Looking at the information on this page, are there any items you own that you are unsure about including as an asset? You don’t have to tell me what they might be, just a simple “yes” or “no” is fine.   
    * Is there anyone that you aren't sure whether to include in this total?
    * If you accidentally entered a wrong number, how would you go about correcting it? (Observe error recovery.)
  * Gross monthly income   
    * (On intro page) After reading the note, how would you decide which income sources to include or exclude?  
    * (On summary page) How comfortable would you feel submitting this income information as it stands right now?  
  * Care and medical expenses  
    * (On intro pages) Are there any costs you've paid that you’re unsure about including here? Why?  
    * (On intro pages) If you weren't sure if an expense qualifies, is there enough information on this screen to help you decide, or would you look elsewhere?  
    * (On summary pages) How certain are you that you haven't missed any eligible expenses?  
    * (At the end of both sections) Is there an expense you've actually paid that doesn't seem to fit into these categories?  
* Step 7: Additional info  
  * Direct deposit info  
    * Provide them with fake account info

*Pause on the supporting documents list.*

### Fourth Task: Supporting documents list

Please tell me about what you see here.

1. What does this mean to you?
2. If you had to start gathering these documents today, would you know where to find them and/or how to obtain them?
3. Which specific items on this list, if any, feel difficult to obtain?
4. How long do you estimate it would take you to collect the documents you need?
5. Was there anything you expected to see here that is missing?
6. How comfortable are you with uploading sensitive personal documents (like a death or marriage certificate) to VA.gov? What would increase your comfort level?
7. Imagine you do not have one of these documents with you right now. What would you do? (To test real-world failure scenarios.)

### Fifth Task: Review

Please tell me about what you see here.

- What does this mean to you?  
- What would you do now?

- On a scale of 1-5, one being not confident at all and five being very confident, how confident are you that you have provided all the necessary information and that your application is complete? 

Do you have any concerns that the information you provided might lead to an issue like an over- or underpayment?
- If Y: Can you talk briefly about why you might have those concerns?

### Sixth Task: Confirmation

Please tell me about what you see here.

1. Why do you think you’re seeing this page?  
2. What does this page mean to you?  
3. Is there anything that’s unclear to you?  
4. What would you do next?
5. What concerns do you have, if any, about your application being processed correctly after you hit submit? 

## Post-Task Interview

**For those who have applied before:**
1. "How does this online experience compare to your previous experience?"
2. "What information do you wish you had known before applying the first time?"

**For all:**
1. What worked well for you?
2. What was unclear or didn't work well for you?
3. What would you like to change or add?
4. Is there anything else that we haven't talked about that you think I should know?
