## **Instructions**

We will be able to get ok transcripts from EnjoyHQ, so focus notes on observations, clearly defined interpretations, and impactful utterances.



* Focus on observations of user behavior. 
    * Example of observation: “Participants clicks on My VA tab, hovers over X header, then back buttons to landing page.” 
    * Example of observation: “Participant says ‘this is annoying, that makes no sense.’ when looking to login to BTSSS.”
* Be clear where notetaker is interpreting or making inferences of what participant is thinking/feeling
    * Example of interpretation: “Based on facial expressions, participant seems to be confused.  Going back and forth between X and Y pages seems like they are looking for something.”
    * Example of interpretation: “Participant easily found link no frustration.”

**Date and time of interview:** Wednesday, April 17 11:00am – 12:00pm

## **Task 1: Navigate to Travel Reimbursement Status page**

From landing page:

_Task:_ Imagine that you have submitted several requests to be reimbursed for driving to see your VA doctor multiple times following surgery in Spring 2023. You want to know what happened to those requests. **Using this prototype, where would you find this information?**

Please remember to think aloud and describe what you are looking for.

**NOTES:** Focus on clicks and paths taken/attempted
- "I guess start with Menu"
- Navigated to top pages
- "Looking for anyting that says anythting about travel reimbursement"
- Navigated to VA travel pay reimbursement. "This seems like an informational page. I'm looking for something that tells me to where to check the status." Scrolled up and down the page multiple times.
- "I not sure where I'd find it. Maybe in the main menu?"
- Prompted to click on accordian. Q: What would you see? "Promamaly sme information about how?"
- "Do I need to go up and sign in?" "I don't think I can clink the link and it would sing me in" Signin doesn't work.
- User clicked the link when promted.
- 



## **Task 2: Travel Reimbursement Status page expectations**

From travel claims page: 

1. How would you **describe** what you see on this page?

   a. How would you **summarize** this page to another veteran?

  **NOTES:** Focus on keyword descriptors
  - "Looks like standard information like 'this is what you did and when you did it'"
  - How would you summarize... "It's a running list of all the travel claims that hve been submitted"

3. Looking at this page, what do you expect to **be able to do here**?
**NOTES:**
   - "Probably be able to sort and reorganize or more easily find one that you are looking for"
   - Maybe the drop down or the sort button will give me more filter
   - I would assume sort options would be Open, Closed Newsest, Oldest, Facilities
   - IF I need to just find a Closed one I don't want to see all the other option.
   - When there are too many dates togther I get them mixed up.
   - 

    b. Looking at this page, what looks like something you can **click or take action on**?

    **NOTES:**
- "I would say the only the numbers and the sort button are the only thing I can click on related to the claims"

5.  Looking at this page, what would you want to be able to do on here that you **can’t do now on this page**?

      **NOTES:**
    - "I'd want to be able to sort it and more easily find the ones I'm looking for"
    - "An option to file a new claim since I'm here"


7.  Now let’s look at the card at the top of the page.  Reading through it, what can you tell me about it?

     **NOTES:** Focus on keyword descriptors
    - "A clime that was filled for an appointment ant that date and time"
    - "The header is whne the appointment was"
    - "Where means which VA facility"
    - "Claim details makes me think of what it's showing the claim number and submitted dates and the status"
    - "Claim status means that it's Denied and not to pay me"
    - "Claim number just meand a file number that they assigend"
    - "Update on means when they made thier decision"
    - Change.. "I'd move the updated on closer to the status because wen I look at it it's right there"
    - "It's boring in appearance" "It's just balck and white while the rest of the site has colors"
    - Take away from card "I don't think anything. IF you slim it down you'd need to click on something to show the detials but I don't see that nessicary"
    - Add to the car, "Maybe the distance in which the claim is covering. 40 miles or whatever" "I'm not alwyas going to remember how far it is. It maybe useful to sombody at some point. Especially if you are trying to caluclate how much it is, roughly"
  
9.  Coming back to our original task, what can you tell me about **what’s going on with your claims for your Spring 2023** doctor visits?
    - Do you think any of these claims **require you to do anything else?**

      **NOTES:** Focus on expectations
      -Scolls down and notices the status. "one is denied, onhold, and one in review based on ths status of each"
      - "I don't know what On hold means. I assume there is some kind of issue with it. Claim filed incorrectly that is creating an issue"
      - "In manual review propbably that one needs more of a look at and it is one that has a physical human to look at it"
      - What could you do? "Probbaly nothing. I could write the claim number down to contact some one"
      - "On hold would prompt me to contact someone to know what on hold means"
      - "I'd write the claim number down and call the n umber listed below"
      - "The claim number just by dealing with other things like insurance you need that to ge tto what that actually is so they can find it.



## Questions on how to appeal

1. Let’s look at that claim that was **denied**. Imagine that you wanted to **appeal** that claim denial. What **information would you need** to appeal that denial?

     **NOTES:** Focus on comprehension
   - "Eveything that is under claim details and the phone number. I don't see anyting that says 'appeal' to get somebody who will tell me if there is anything else I will need"
   - If you couldn't call that number "I assume clicking on the BTSSS portal link is an option"
   - "If I click it it would take me to a page that manages the claims"
   - "I don't know what those letters [BTSSS] stand for"
   - "For convience it would be nice to have an option to appeal a denied claim without having to go to a totally differnt page. I like everyitn to be as easy as convient. If it's denied I'd like an option to appeal right from this page."


3. Do you think you could **start that appeal process from here**?  
    1. If **yes, how** would you do that?
        1. Probe: What **information would you need** to make that appeal?
    2. If no: If you **can’t** start it from here, but you still wanted to appeal, **how** would you do that?

        **NOTES:** Focus on thought process and if they can articulate the process


4. Lastly, looking at this page and this prototype as it relates to your experience submitting for travel reimbursement from the VA, do you have any feedback or insight you wanted to share that we haven’t already discussed?

     **NOTES:**
   - "I think the biggest thing is figuring how something like this over to the VA mobile app. It's more of a click conveinince."
