## **Instructions**

We will be able to get ok transcripts from EnjoyHQ, so focus notes on observations, clearly defined interpretations, and impactful utterances.



* Focus on observations of user behavior. 
    * Example of observation: “Participants clicks on My VA tab, hovers over X header, then back buttons to landing page.” 
    * Example of observation: “Participant says ‘this is annoying, that makes no sense.’ when looking to login to BTSSS.”
* Be clear where notetaker is interpreting or making inferences of what participant is thinking/feeling
    * Example of interpretation: “Based on facial expressions, participant seems to be confused.  Going back and forth between X and Y pages seems like they are looking for something.”
    * Example of interpretation: “Participant easily found link no frustration.”

  **Date and time of interview:** Wednesday, April 17 2:30pm – 3:30pm

## **Task 1: Navigate to Travel Reimbursement Status page**

From landing page:

_Task:_ Imagine that you have submitted several requests to be reimbursed for driving to see your VA doctor multiple times following surgery in Spring 2023. You want to know what happened to those requests. **Using this prototype, where would you find this information?**

Please remember to think aloud and describe what you are looking for.

**NOTES:** Focus on clicks and paths taken/attempted
- " I would sign in"
- "It says MyVA claims and appeals" Reads the Disability claim and notices the Manage all calims and appleas
- What are you looking for "This is the page [MyVA] that turned up"
- Back to the task... "Under manage all claims and apperals. If it;s someting you did before, then it's under that. I typically print it outn and turn it in as I've had so much difficulty with the site and computers are not my thing"
- "If they don't pay me for a claim then it's not the end of the world"
- "I'd go to Your claims, decisions, reviews..." Scrolls through depenacy claims.
- What are you trying to do? "I see what I have done, I think, previously"
- What are you looking at? " Iknow I had a claim for traveling adn that these are claims that had dealt with that"
- What makes you think theyse are your Spring claims? "I think that this is when it happened?"
- Clikced on details, "I assumed I'd see my claim details"
- Have you found your requests? "I would think so. These are claim for dependancies. I'm not sure what these are but I saw the claims for compensation."
- MyHevet and reads off the boxes and nav lists
- Moderator repeasts the task prompt "I would check travel reimbursement claim status"
- Clicks on travel reimbursement claim status link


## **Task 2: Travel Reimbursement Status page expectations**

From travel claims page: 

1. How would you **describe** what you see on this page?
   - "It shows the date adn when it was submitted and updated"

   a. How would you **summarize** this page to another veteran?

  **NOTES:** Focus on keyword descriptors 
  - "This says claim details status denied. THis tells me what ever I submitted was updated as denied. The seconed one says In progress" "That means to me that they haven't made a decisons of wheter it is paid or not paid"
  - "You can learn wheter or not what you submitted is in the system and if that particular form was paid or denied"

3. Looking at this page, what do you expect to **be able to do here**?

    b. Looking at this page, what looks like something you can **click or take action on**?

    **NOTES:**
   - "It doesn't seem to allow me to do a whole lot. I can see it says that the calim was denied but I can't see the acutal form or the reason it was denied"
   - "It says that I can show the appointes in order that it will be the newst first by when it was updated"
   - "I don't see anything that is clickable" "I can just see what it tells me"
   - Sort - newest first "It gives me the option of newest or oldest"
   - "I would sort this with the newest first"


5.  Looking at this page, what would you want to be able to do on here that you **can’t do now on this page**?

      **NOTES:**
    - "When I get to something that somehting is denied, I'd like to be able to see what the problem is and why it wasn't paid for, was it something I did wrong, or was it too late? when I drop it off it doesn't alwyas get whereever in time"
    - Anything else, "No"


7.  Now let’s look at the card at the top of the page.  Reading through it, what can you tell me about it?

     **NOTES:** Focus on keyword descriptors
    - The header "Tells me the date of when I should've had the appointment"
    - "Where means which clinic" "I have to go to multiple systems to check appointment information" "I go to multiple clincs"
    - "Cliams detials makes me think of the form I filled out, what was said"
    - "Status tells me either it's been paid, in progress, or denied" "It doesn't tell me why"
    - "Submitted on means the day I turned it in"
    - "Claim number means when it goes to the travel dept it assignes the number"
    - "Updated on I'm not quite sure what it means. It means that's when they determined what they were gonna do"
    - "The card is showing me that I had an appointment, and where it was, and the details of the claim and it was denied and when"
    - "The claim I submitted for travel ot that appointemt and back"
    - "I would change the card to know the reaso why. Too late? Not approved? Any one of a number of things. But it doesn't tell you why."
    - "Im not sure 'update' means that the decision was made but I'm assuming that what it means. That wordage to me 'updated' doesn't mean that the decision was made then. I'd probably say decision made on Monday... or staus determined" "Updated means somerhing more postive than a denial"
    - "I wouldn't take anything away"

  
9.  Coming back to our original task, what can you tell me about **what’s going on with your claims for your Spring 2023** doctor visits?
    - Do you think any of these claims **require you to do anything else?**

      **NOTES:** Focus on expectations
      - "The are not there (the Spring 2023 claims) becasuwe the last one was in Februray"
      - Repeats date "I'd scroll down and I might have to page back if there is something further back"
      - "March 10th it shows denied"
      - "On hold means... like the are not doing anything yet. They havne't made a decison yet. I'd want to find out what's going on" "If it was important I'd go to my local clinic about what On Hold means"
      - "In manual review... I'm not sure whentere these forms are seen by a person or some AI. In this particular case it sounds like someont is acutally lookig at the form I supplied"
      - "Yes I'd need to go over to my clinc and talk with the patient advocate to talk about claims that are On Hold and Denied and ask what is going on"
      - "If I couldn't reach her I'd ask who I should call to discuss this, I don't have the number. I have other numbers"



## Questions on how to appeal

1. Let’s look at that claim that was **denied**. Imagine that you wanted to **appeal** that claim denial. What **information would you need** to appeal that denial?

     **NOTES:** Focus on comprehension
   - "I could not appleal the denial b/c I have enought trouble filing much less trhyong to dicover about a denial"



3. Do you think you could **start that appeal process from here**?  
    1. If **yes, how** would you do that?
        1. Probe: What **information would you need** to make that appeal?
    2. If no: If you **can’t** start it from here, but you still wanted to appeal, **how** would you do that?

        **NOTES:** Focus on thought process and if they can articulate the process
    - "If I were to call someone I'd need the claim form" "If I don't get paid, it would take more more money in time to deal with it than it would be to just let it go"
   - "I don't know what my patien advocate would ask me for. She'd want to see what I'm looking at on my laptop. She might want to see acopy of the form I submitted but I don't see how I can get a copy of that"


4. Lastly, looking at this page and this prototype as it relates to your experience submitting for travel reimbursement from the VA, do you have any feedback or insight you wanted to share that we haven’t already discussed?
   - "I'd like to be able to see the actual for I fileld out and if there is some I did then maybe I could deal with it myself"
   - "Hopefully it could tell me when it was recived since it needs to be submitted wihing 30 days of your appointment"
   - "It would show me the reason like it was recived too late"
   - Anything else... "I don't know of anything else"
   - "There is nothing in the form (page) that has a number I can call.""I'd like a way to have more guidance on how to get a more complicated visti covered"

     **NOTES:** 
