**Date and time: Wednesday, April 24 11:00am – 12:00pm**

## **Instructions**

We will be able to get ok transcripts from EnjoyHQ, so focus notes on observations, clearly defined interpretations, and impactful utterances.



* Focus on observations of user behavior. 
    * Example of observation: “Participants clicks on My VA tab, hovers over X header, then back buttons to landing page.” 
    * Example of observation: “Participant says ‘this is annoying, that makes no sense.’ when looking to login to BTSSS.”
* Be clear where notetaker is interpreting or making inferences of what participant is thinking/feeling
    * Example of interpretation: “Based on facial expressions, participant seems to be confused.  Going back and forth between X and Y pages seems like they are looking for something.”
    * Example of interpretation: “Participant easily found link no frustration.” 

## **Task 1: Navigate to Travel Reimbursement Status page**

From landing page:

_Task:_ Imagine that you have submitted several requests to be reimbursed for driving to see your VA doctor multiple times following surgery in Spring 2023. You want to know what happened to those requests. **Using this prototype, where would you find this information?**

Please remember to think aloud and describe what you are looking for.

**NOTES:** Focus on clicks and paths taken/attempted

- User scrolls and looks finds top page result of "Get reimburese..."
- "I need to block out all the stuff on the left"
- User hovers over signin
- Scrolls down to the questions "Usually if I have a question I look for the FAQ section to get that question asked
- "What happends after and the cleick on "how do I check my status"
- Clicks login


## **Task 2: Travel Reimbursement Status page expectations**

From travel claims page: 

1. How would you **describe** what you see on this page?

   a. How would you **summarize** this page to another veteran?

  **NOTES:** Focus on keyword descriptors 

  - "looks like likve ever other VA page"
  - "Each one says where the appointet was and status"
  - "All these boxes looks exavly the same with makes it easy to see what the status is"
  - "I'd tell my friend on that page you'll be able to see by the appointmetn whete it was and the status of your claim and you can sort by newest and oldest"
  - "I'd expect to automatically resort if I click on that"

3. Looking at this page, what do you expect to **be able to do here**?

    b. Looking at this page, what looks like something you can **click or take action on**?

    **NOTES:**
   - "It would be nice to know why it's denied or if there is anappeal process to describe how to do that and wht the status mean"
   - "there is a help at the bottoma dn the feednback. As well as the portal linke
   - "Nothing else looks clicakble other than the sort"
   - "I'd want to sort by location since I go to a few different clincs


5.  Looking at this page, what would you want to be able to do on here that you **can’t do now on this page**?

      **NOTES:**
    - "A note or something to know why it was denied"
    - 


7.  Now let’s look at the card at the top of the page.  Reading through it, what can you tell me about it?

     **NOTES:** Focus on keyword descriptors

    - "THis box says when the appointment was"
    - "Wher eowuld be that specific facility
    - "Calim details it would be nice to know thwe milage"
    - "The clime number doesn't show anyting about where you came from where and the miles traaveled"
    - "Claim number I'm not going to do a whole lot with that unless I need to call them. I guess it;s an internal thing. I think I had to call them once and I don't think they need then number just some basic info from me"
    - "Submitted means the day I submitted it"
    - "Updated means the person at the other end changed the status of it"
    - "I'd change the calims staus to know why it was denied. A littl bit more info what the different status means"
    - "It's nice to have it since each card is the same, you know where to look"
    - "Maybe more specifics about where you went in the facility sicne the center is so big. Maybe the office you went to"
    - "I'd maybe take away maybe the claim number since it's more of and interal thing"
    - "Maybe I'd add the actual dollar amount b/c sometimes they adjust the amount. Maybe the amount that was reimbused"
    - 

  
9.  Coming back to our original task, what can you tell me about **what’s going on with your claims for your Spring 2023** doctor visits?
    - Do you think any of these claims **require you to do anything else?**

      **NOTES:** Focus on expectations
      - User scrols down
      - Finds 3 cards adn reads off status
      - "I don't know what the differ of on hold and manual review. I'd assume they are just sitting on someones desk"
      - "I'd assume they need to adjust something or confirm something or more questios they have to answer internally"
      - "No they don't need me to do anyting else b/c they don't say that I need to doe anything else. At this point since it doesn't sanything esle I'd try to call somone"
      



## Questions on how to appeal

1. Let’s look at that claim that was **denied**. Imagine that you wanted to **appeal** that claim denial. What **information would you need** to appeal that denial?

     **NOTES:** Focus on comprehension
   - "I'd have the claim number, date, time, location"
   - "Not sure how. Maybe I'd go in that portal link and I'd expect that it would take me to that portal and I'd see a lot of the sma information. It's not as streamed line. It looks older"
   - "Maybe there is an appeal link on there somewhere"



3. Do you think you could **start that appeal process from here**?  
    1. If **yes, how** would you do that?
        1. Probe: What **information would you need** to make that appeal?
    2. If no: If you **can’t** start it from here, but you still wanted to appeal, **how** would you do that?

        **NOTES:** Focus on thought process and if they can articulate the process
   - "I could maybe call the phone number from here"
   - "It says I should have my claim numnber ready and have this page open. I'd pull up another tab MHV with my appointments up to reference the two against each other. Maybe there was a wrong date open"
   - 

4. Lastly, looking at this page and this prototype as it relates to your experience submitting for travel reimbursement from the VA, do you have any feedback or insight you wanted to share that we haven’t already discussed?

     **NOTES:**
   - "Knowing how to appeal from here. On the phone you have limited hours."
   - "I'd want to sort by location I'd say probably by address but the clinc in the facilty"
   - "Sometimes I'm refilling prescriotions or requesting appointments"
   - "I like that it's [Travel pay] integrated into the VA website"
