**Date and time: Tuesday, April 23 11:00am – 12:00pm**

## **Instructions**

We will be able to get ok transcripts from EnjoyHQ, so focus notes on observations, clearly defined interpretations, and impactful utterances.



* Focus on observations of user behavior. 
    * Example of observation: “Participants clicks on My VA tab, hovers over X header, then back buttons to landing page.” 
    * Example of observation: “Participant says ‘this is annoying, that makes no sense.’ when looking to login to BTSSS.”
* Be clear where notetaker is interpreting or making inferences of what participant is thinking/feeling
    * Example of interpretation: “Based on facial expressions, participant seems to be confused.  Going back and forth between X and Y pages seems like they are looking for something.”
    * Example of interpretation: “Participant easily found link no frustration.” 

## **Task 1: Navigate to Travel Reimbursement Status page**

From landing page:

_Task:_ Imagine that you have submitted several requests to be reimbursed for driving to see your VA doctor multiple times following surgery in Spring 2023. You want to know what happened to those requests. **Using this prototype, where would you find this information?**

Please remember to think aloud and describe what you are looking for.

**NOTES:** Focus on clicks and paths taken/attempted

- Scolls page to top page travel reimburemen page... "Looking for reimbursement for travel pay"
- "I would sign in" Tries to click sign in
- "I probabaly use my app. Notmaly it points me to a link"
- Click on "How to file a travel..." This is the one I use because it has the BTSSS link"
- "That or I'd scan a QR code at the VA that would take me to that site. I can scan that with my camera adn it will take me right to that link"
- "That's the only whay that I know how to sign in."
- Prompts user to sign in via the "how do I check the status of my claim"
- 



## **Task 2: Travel Reimbursement Status page expectations**

From travel claims page: 

1. How would you **describe** what you see on this page?

   a. How would you **summarize** this page to another veteran?

  **NOTES:** Focus on keyword descriptors 

  - "It's straight to the point with detailed info and it's not overwhelming as to why it's denied and updated"
  - "The point gives the location, detail, number, updated"
  - "I am looking at the travel claim because it says it at the top that it's travel claim from Feb 23 adn Feb 6th is in progress"
  - "Jan 26 submitted for payment adn that's what I'm used to seeing on VA.gov"
  - "If they want to check the staus of their reimbusement it will tell you that 24/7"

3. Looking at this page, what do you expect to **be able to do here**?

    b. Looking at this page, what looks like something you can **click or take action on**?

    **NOTES:**
   - "Look for a certain date. I know the sorting can do it from oldest and if it's more you can go to the next page"
   - "The sort button you can click on and the bottom go to the next page"
   - "I'd find something by the date. I'd also want to sort by status that way I won't have to jumble through all fo these. If there is a status option then I could just look for one that were denied. Status, newest, oldest... if there is more it would get confusing"
   - "What i see is perfect. It's straight to the point. It's not overwelming with information. Straight to the point with the claim."


5.  Looking at this page, what would you want to be able to do on here that you **can’t do now on this page**?

      **NOTES:**
    - "I like the way it is b/c it's not overwemling with information adn not confusing. I don't think I'd change it. It breaks it down by dates from newset to oldest. Maybe the status sort would help.


7.  Now let’s look at the card at the top of the page.  Reading through it, what can you tell me about it?

     **NOTES:** Focus on keyword descriptors
    - "The crd is about my remibusement staut of travel"
    - "Date means the appointment when it was held"
    - "where is the location of the facility"
    - "Claim details is the info about the travel"
    - "It is the travel pay comes to mind when I see claim details"
    - "I'd see the claim number and the TC means travel claim"
    - "The submission dates and updated"
    - "This is suffuciant and enough for me"
    - "Claim staus means if it's been apporved, denied, pending, etc..."
    - "Claim number is the next ticket in line. I'm not sure how they process it"
    - "Submitte don means the day that the veteran submitted the claim"
    - "Update on whenever the system was submitted"
    - "I'd change nothing"
    - "I'd takeaway nothing"
    - "I'd add nothing"

  
9.  Coming back to our original task, what can you tell me about **what’s going on with your claims for your Spring 2023** doctor visits?
    - Do you think any of these claims **require you to do anything else?**

      **NOTES:** Focus on expectations

      - User tries to sort then scrolls
      - "One is one hold, one is denied"
      - "On hold means I assume that some info was incorrect. Some misinformation when submitting the ticket. I'd assume information was proceedd incorrected or they don't have the information they need."
      - "In manual review means pretty certain that someone is reviewing it by hand. Someon manually reviewing it"
      - "Yes, these claims require something else from me or maybe there are too many back to back."
      - "I'd need to follow up or reach out to see what is going on.



## Questions on how to appeal

1. Let’s look at that claim that was **denied**. Imagine that you wanted to **appeal** that claim denial. What **information would you need** to appeal that denial?

     **NOTES:** Focus on comprehension

    - "I'd need the claim number and the time and date and the latest update of what the status is"
    - "The claim number they can look that up and give them what they need. It's should populate for them the time and the latest information and why it was denied."
    - 


3. Do you think you could **start that appeal process from here**?  
    1. If **yes, how** would you do that?
        1. Probe: What **information would you need** to make that appeal?
    2. If no: If you **can’t** start it from here, but you still wanted to appeal, **how** would you do that?

        **NOTES:** Focus on thought process and if they can articulate the process
       - "I don't think I can start the appela from here. I'd assume so but I don't see where"
       - "I think I can appeal fro here beacuse I see the claim number"
       - "I'd look for the link to appeal with... here with the portal link or the phone number"
       - "I'd take a screenshot to have the info on hand and call the number or go to the portal"
       - "If I click on that I'd expect that, if I'm already logged in, it would give me more function sto check the appeal. IT would have the optins to file for an appeal. If I'm logged then everything would popup wilth all my information already"
       - "I think a bluebutton that sasys status and file for appeal"
       - "I'd expect to see more information"


4. Lastly, looking at this page and this prototype as it relates to your experience submitting for travel reimbursement from the VA, do you have any feedback or insight you wanted to share that we haven’t already discussed?

     **NOTES:**
   - "I'd want to maybe have the appeal options on the page and see why I was denied. I'd assume it would go to someone"
   - "To make it faster adn easier to appeal it that way I don't have to go to a link"
   - "Maybe another button to the phone number so people can call"
   - "
