**Date and time: Wednesday, April 24 12:30pm -1:30pm**

## **Instructions**

We will be able to get ok transcripts from EnjoyHQ, so focus notes on observations, clearly defined interpretations, and impactful utterances.



* Focus on observations of user behavior. 
    * Example of observation: “Participants clicks on My VA tab, hovers over X header, then back buttons to landing page.” 
    * Example of observation: “Participant says ‘this is annoying, that makes no sense.’ when looking to login to BTSSS.”
* Be clear where notetaker is interpreting or making inferences of what participant is thinking/feeling
    * Example of interpretation: “Based on facial expressions, participant seems to be confused.  Going back and forth between X and Y pages seems like they are looking for something.”
    * Example of interpretation: “Participant easily found link no frustration.” 

## **Task 1: Navigate to Travel Reimbursement Status page**

From landing page:

_Task:_ Imagine that you have submitted several requests to be reimbursed for driving to see your VA doctor multiple times following surgery in Spring 2023. You want to know what happened to those requests. **Using this prototype, where would you find this information?**

Please remember to think aloud and describe what you are looking for.

**NOTES:** Focus on clicks and paths taken/attempted

- User on iPad
- "I used to know where to find that"
- User clicks on "Get reimbursed" on Top Pages
- User scrolls "Generall thyere is a button that shows how to check"
- "I would be looking for where to follow up on my previous"
- "I would need to have signed in. That wouldn've been one of the first things I would've done. There is a sign in button where it would ask me for my signing information"
- User directed to go back and singin in via home page and ends on MVA
- "First reacton is to Mangae Claims and appeals because they are claims"
- User clicks link
- "I'm looking for ones that say travel claim. I see ones for compensation whichj is theor word for paying soemthing out"
- User scrolls through claims on manage claims page
- User clicked on View details on March 16th of "Claim for compensation"
- "I guess this is my travel claim unless i was expecting compensation coming at the same time"
- "I'cd call the phone number and see why it's not there b/c I wouldn't know where else to look"
- User scrolls to top and hopes to refresh the page to see if anyting else comes up. "There is no need to go to other pages becuse I see the claims from Spring od 2023"
- User sctolls down adn sees link to "Cehck status of your travel claim"
- "It means exactly that, what the staus of the travel clims I filed and I should be able to click on that"
- 


## **Task 2: Travel Reimbursement Status page expectations**

From travel claims page: 

1. How would you **describe** what you see on this page?

   a. How would you **summarize** this page to another veteran?

  **NOTES:** Focus on keyword descriptors 

  - " IT gives me the info I was looiing for, the where, that it was an appointment, claim numbers, submitted and updated when is the time they transferred the funds"
  - "I'd summarize it that it gives you the basic information where it was and ... I just nortced it says denied."
  - "That's the stuff I'd be looking for"
  - "Maybe a reason why it was denied" "Normally it can be put in a cople word sentence"

3. Looking at this page, what do you expect to **be able to do here**?

    b. Looking at this page, what looks like something you can **click or take action on**?

    **NOTES:**

   - "Here is just gives me the infor to maybe go to another step since it show it's denied. I would be positive where to go next other than to call the number"
   - "Why was it denied and how do I correct it"
   - " I can click on the need help on the bottom and it's probally what I woul've done to look for the number to deal with the claims"
   - "I'd scroll to the botton to look for the number"
   - "I'd expect the portal to take me direct to the claims department"
   - "Other than the feedback, not really anything else"


5.  Looking at this page, what would you want to be able to do on here that you **can’t do now on this page**?

      **NOTES:**
    - "I don't think there woul be much of anyting"
    - "I would've like to have seen why it was denied"
    - "Newest first would be as I expect it to show on the page"
    - "I'd expect to sort by year or the staus of the claim"
    - "most of what is on here in status that looking for claim status"
    - "Looking to see if some have already been paid or find the ones on manual review"
    - Card at top of page
 
    - 


7.  Now let’s look at the card at the top of the page.  Reading through it, what can you tell me about it?

     **NOTES:** Focus on keyword descriptors

    - "This card is about it was an appointment"
    - "I'm not sure what ET appointment means"
    - "Oh, eastern time"
    - "The hheader means the appointment date and time"
    - "Where menas the facility I went to"
    - "Claim details wha tthe claim number and the other info needed"
    - "Claim number is always nice to have"
    - "If I doin't know what I wnet for I'd have no idea what that is about"
    - "Maybe what department I saw would be nice"
    - "Sometimes I'd go and see more than one department that day"
    - "Staus means wht is going on with it: Denied, Submitted, Paid, In manual review. THose are thie things I want to know if I'm going to call"
    - "Claim number is the number that has been admisistravitly given to it"
    - Submitted "When it was submitted:
    - "Updated is when it has a change in stautus"
    - "I'd add the reason it was denied and add the department and maybe even who to contact"
    - "I'd take away nothing"
    - "It' gives the minimum abmouth of infor needed"
    - "It would be nice to have the miles and the actual reimbusement amount"
    - "Ive seen two faclity on the same day and had to file two separate claims and they didn't mention the clinc"

  
9.  Coming back to our original task, what can you tell me about **what’s going on with your claims for your Spring 2023** doctor visits?
    - Do you think any of these claims **require you to do anything else?**

      **NOTES:** Focus on expectations

      - "Denied, On Hold, In Maunal Review"
      - "on hold means that there is something I may hve forgotten or something that has not been verified, or lost in the shuffle. There is something wron in the setup"
      - "In Maunal review means that there was something wrong and aren't matching up"
      - "I'd follow up on them and see what's going on. Why or is there sonthing I need to do or pass on to them"
      - 



## Questions on how to appeal

1. Let’s look at that claim that was **denied**. Imagine that you wanted to **appeal** that claim denial. What **information would you need** to appeal that denial?

     **NOTES:** Focus on comprehension
   


3. Do you think you could **start that appeal process from here**?  
    1. If **yes, how** would you do that?
        1. Probe: What **information would you need** to make that appeal?
    2. If no: If you **can’t** start it from here, but you still wanted to appeal, **how** would you do that?

        **NOTES:** Focus on thought process and if they can articulate the process

       - "I'd take the claim numbe adn the day of the appointment and the submitted date. I'd want to know which doctor did I see."
       - "i'd most likely call the number. Or I'd look for a way to appeal it"
       - "With what is on the page I would call the 800 number"
       - "I'd need the claim number adn the dates to makes ure it's matching on thier end"


4. Lastly, looking at this page and this prototype as it relates to your experience submitting for travel reimbursement from the VA, do you have any feedback or insight you wanted to share that we haven’t already discussed?

     **NOTES:**

   - "I'd want to have an appeal button that is where you need the why it was denied to know what info to give"
