**Date and time: Wednesday, April 24 2:00pm – 3:00pm**

## **Instructions**

We will be able to get ok transcripts from EnjoyHQ, so focus notes on observations, clearly defined interpretations, and impactful utterances.



* Focus on observations of user behavior. 
    * Example of observation: “Participants clicks on My VA tab, hovers over X header, then back buttons to landing page.” 
    * Example of observation: “Participant says ‘this is annoying, that makes no sense.’ when looking to login to BTSSS.”
* Be clear where notetaker is interpreting or making inferences of what participant is thinking/feeling
    * Example of interpretation: “Based on facial expressions, participant seems to be confused.  Going back and forth between X and Y pages seems like they are looking for something.”
    * Example of interpretation: “Participant easily found link no frustration.” 

## **Task 1: Navigate to Travel Reimbursement Status page**

From landing page:

_Task:_ Imagine that you have submitted several requests to be reimbursed for driving to see your VA doctor multiple times following surgery in Spring 2023. You want to know what happened to those requests. **Using this prototype, where would you find this information?**

Please remember to think aloud and describe what you are looking for.

**NOTES:** Focus on clicks and paths taken/attempted

- User scrolls and looks at top pages and goes to "Check your claims, decision... b/c it's a claim"
- " i see get reimburesed but if I already filed it I wouldn't look there"
- "I assume they would've sent me an email or a letter"
- "I'd espect 'Check claim...' to see the claim and then I'd see the status"
- "If it wasn't working I'd try another day or call or go physically into the VA"
- "I assume it would go directly into my (bank) account or maybe I'd go into payment history"
- "Do I think I'm loggen in? No, so I'd assume I'd log in"
- Promted to log in
- "I propbly would login because I assume it would be under my genral information"
- "I'm looking for antying about appeals"
- "I seem manage all my claims and I guess that would be the best thing for me"
- User goes to Check claim...
- "I can get details on the calims, dependacy, compentation... hopefully on eof these would be my reimbusement for travel. If I did get paid it would show me the details"
- "I assume it would give me the details of the claim"
- "If I did see what I need I'd go in person from the buisness office"
- "In MHV I'd see appointments, and messages, see records"
- " I see under payments I see 'Check travel...'"
- "I assume I'd find those claims and missing pieces and if it went through or not"


## **Task 2: Travel Reimbursement Status page expectations**

From travel claims page: 

1. How would you **describe** what you see on this page?

   a. How would you **summarize** this page to another veteran?

  **NOTES:** Focus on keyword descriptors 

  - "This give s me th breakdown of the appointes, claim, details , and staus, and when it was submitted"
  - "It doesn' ttell me why, I'd have to reach out to a perso n to see why that happened"
  - "I'd say we can go in there and see the calim and the stauts and what happened to it."
  - "I'd say from the newest to the last and I can go in a see it but I don't see why it was denied"
  - "Was it not a gov expence"

3. Looking at this page, what do you expect to **be able to do here**?

    b. Looking at this page, what looks like something you can **click or take action on**?

    **NOTES:**
   - "Sort from newst to oldest"
   - "I can hit page 1,2,3..."
   - "I can give feedback"
   - "IF I need to manage a claim I can call or click on the portal link"
   - "I'd like to sort by date, year"


5.  Looking at this page, what would you want to be able to do on here that you **can’t do now on this page**?

      **NOTES:**

    - "I dont' mind chatting with someone from this page"
    - "Video chat with an individual"
    - "And find out what it is and what happened"


7.  Now let’s look at the card at the top of the page.  Reading through it, what can you tell me about it?

     **NOTES:** Focus on keyword descriptors

    - "This card seems like a travel claim bcause it's an appointment where I went to the VA med center and I filed a claim"
    - "It was an appointment and for somereason it didn't get covered"
    - "Friday... means the date of the appointment"
    - "Where the appoint I went to"
    - "Details is the claim deatils"
    - "Staus means the staus of the claim"
    - "Submitted is when I subittemd it"
    - "Updated is when it was updated"
    - "I'd add why it was denied"
    - "I'd add what this claim was for"
    - "Since I know what it is I'd takwe away claim details"
    - "I'd add the details why"

  
9.  Coming back to our original task, what can you tell me about **what’s going on with your claims for your Spring 2023** doctor visits?
    - Do you think any of these claims **require you to do anything else?**

      **NOTES:** Focus on expectations
      - User scrolls down "I see it here"
      - "March was denied, On Hold, In Manual review I guess they had to take it out. I proba;ly won'dnt touch that one but I'd follow up about the other tow"
      - "On hold means that they are still trying to decide. I'd call in and find out why"
      - "In maunal review means I guess thye are looking for the paper work that I did submit it"
      - "I'd have to reach out about all three"
      - 



## Questions on how to appeal

1. Let’s look at that claim that was **denied**. Imagine that you wanted to **appeal** that claim denial. What **information would you need** to appeal that denial?

     **NOTES:** Focus on comprehension  
- "I'd need everyihting in this box. The claim number would help out a whole lot"
- 

3. Do you think you could **start that appeal process from here**?  
    1. If **yes, how** would you do that?
        1. Probe: What **information would you need** to make that appeal?
    2. If no: If you **can’t** start it from here, but you still wanted to appeal, **how** would you do that?

        **NOTES:** Focus on thought process and if they can articulate the process
- "I'd probably go to the buiness office"
- "I cannot start the appeal for me here. I'd love to have it here"
- "I don't know if it's part of VA forms"
- "It goes me a number and a portal but it doens't give me antying on here"

4. Lastly, looking at this page and this prototype as it relates to your experience submitting for travel reimbursement from the VA, do you have any feedback or insight you wanted to share that we haven’t already discussed?

     **NOTES:**
   - "I'd want to have a section about appeal. That's the main purpose"
   - "See the reason why it was denied"
   - "Maybe try to find a timeframe on when these three (On Hold, Manual Review, Denied) will be resolved"
   - Anytying eles to sort by? "Date is most important or maybe the claim number if I know it"
   - "Maybe file, submit, and appeal a claim from here"
