**Date and time: Thursday, April 25 11:00am – 12:00pm**

## **Instructions**

We will be able to get ok transcripts from EnjoyHQ, so focus notes on observations, clearly defined interpretations, and impactful utterances.



* Focus on observations of user behavior. 
    * Example of observation: “Participants clicks on My VA tab, hovers over X header, then back buttons to landing page.” 
    * Example of observation: “Participant says ‘this is annoying, that makes no sense.’ when looking to login to BTSSS.”
* Be clear where notetaker is interpreting or making inferences of what participant is thinking/feeling
    * Example of interpretation: “Based on facial expressions, participant seems to be confused.  Going back and forth between X and Y pages seems like they are looking for something.”
    * Example of interpretation: “Participant easily found link no frustration.” 

## **Task 1: Navigate to Travel Reimbursement Status page**

From landing page:

_Task:_ Imagine that you have submitted several requests to be reimbursed for driving to see your VA doctor multiple times following surgery in Spring 2023. You want to know what happened to those requests. **Using this prototype, where would you find this information?**

Please remember to think aloud and describe what you are looking for.

**NOTES:** Focus on clicks and paths taken/attempted

- "First thing I would do is signin"
- "B/c if I submitted and had appointmetns and had reimbursement penging, I would have to go into my account first"
- User scrolls "I'm look to check the status"
- "This is where I tend most of my time reading through all the prompts. It's not going to be a claim"
- "I knada sepatrate the disabiliyt and the calims and appeals as sepragte from treatment"
- "I'm looking for either something that sasy past or previous appointments. Something with past tense or track status"
- "The claim and appeals has to do with my VA disability and I don't want to file and mange. I want to go down ot he healthcare area. Maybe my inbox"
- "Request travel would be if I haven't put a request in"
- "I'm going to go to my Inbox to see if there is anything in there"
- User tries to click Inbox
- "It would be a reagualr comms page that shows an auto genrated response showing the message abouth the status"
- "If I couldn't find that there I'd keep looking on the web page"
- "Maybe it's under outstanding debts"
- "Now i'm going to look on the payment history b/c maybe I didn't notice it"
- "I'd expect to see any sorty of payments in the disablity and travel reimbursement. All encompassing"
- "If they are not in the payment history I'd continue to scroll to see if thee is anyting I'd missing"
- User talks through each heading and how they don't seem to apply to travel request... Education, Benefits application drafts, etc...
- "The next step would be to look for a phone number o contact information to call"
- Prompted to click on the user dropdown and click on MHV
- "This seems like porpbaly where I shouldn've started b/c it seems to narrow things down to my health"
- "It has appointments in future tense"
- "I might come back to the message cneter to see if there is anything related to tthos claims, Or create a new message to ask for help"
- "Here we are on payments, check travel reimbusement status"
- 


## **Task 2: Travel Reimbursement Status page expectations**

From travel claims page: 

1. How would you **describe** what you see on this page?

   a. How would you **summarize** this page to another veteran?

  **NOTES:** Focus on keyword descriptors \

  - " The header is very self explanatory"
  - "I see the newst first which makes the most sense"
  - "Id scroll down adn look for the year prior"
  - "I see the first calim from Feb is denied which peaks my curiosty as why"
  - "I'd summarize it for a one stop shop for tracking your travel reimbusemtnet status"
  - "I'd expet to see the statu sand adn get more detials as to why if something is denied and what stage it is in"
  - "It's nice to see one was submitted adn the date is was updated"
  - "

3. Looking at this page, what do you expect to **be able to do here**?

    b. Looking at this page, what looks like something you can **click or take action on**?

    **NOTES:**

   - "I don't know if the box are linkable. They aren't."
   - "If they were I'd expect to see ampliying information as to why it was denied. Maybe I;d did't submit something or they msised something"
   - "I'd want to get more informationas to why it was denied"
   - "At least it was updated fairly recenty"
   


5.  Looking at this page, what would you want to be able to do on here that you **can’t do now on this page**?

      **NOTES:** 
  - "I like that it is newst or oldetst first. I'd like an ability to narrow it down maybe by date or year."

6.  Now let’s look at the card at the top of the page.  Reading through it, what can you tell me about it?

     **NOTES:** Focus on keyword descriptors

    - "It is about where the location of my medical appointet and the date time. The staus adn the calim number whithc is hlpful when communicating with the via."
    - "As well as the submitted and updated dates"
    - "The hader is when I had the appointment"
    - "Where means where it was"
    - "Details is the amplifying details"
    - "I like that you have the claim number on there it's nice to have that"
    - "Claim status tells me wherter the calim has been paind or not. In progress but it's been recieved. If it's not paid out it's denied."
    - "Claim number is the identifying infromation like a resevariong numnber. Unique that specific event"
    - "Submitted the date that I submitted the claim. The date it entetred into the VA systetm"
    - "Updated the last time that the team did something with it"
    - "I'd change make the bottom portion a hyper link as I don't need it unless I need it like if it was denied. Why it was denied"
    - "Something I can click, like denied, more information drops down with the claim number, submitted, updated and why it was denied. It makes it more succient and easier to navigate and removes the extra information"
    - "I'd not remove antying but maybe just hide some of the claim detials, other than the status"
    - "I'd add the why it was denied"

  
8.  Coming back to our original task, what can you tell me about **what’s going on with your claims for your Spring 2023** doctor visits?
    - Do you think any of these claims **require you to do anything else?**

      **NOTES:** Focus on expectations

      - User scrolls down to sping date claims
      - "March was denied, April is on hold and May is in Manual review"
      - "On hold is like the dread it's there but the movement has stopped. It;s in a grey area"
      - "In Manual review makes me think that there was some glich and now they are manually processign the claim"



## Questions on how to appeal

1. Let’s look at that claim that was **denied**. Imagine that you wanted to **appeal** that claim denial. What **information would you need** to appeal that denial?

     **NOTES:** Focus on comprehension
       - "Yes they require me to do something else"
      - "I'd want to copy down claim numbers and reach out to ask what I should do"
      - "For denied, I would need all that information. Date, where and the claim number."


3. Do you think you could **start that appeal process from here**?  
    1. If **yes, how** would you do that?
        1. Probe: What **information would you need** to make that appeal?
    2. If no: If you **can’t** start it from here, but you still wanted to appeal, **how** would you do that?

        **NOTES:** Focus on thought process and if they can articulate the process

       - "I do think that I could start the applea from here"
       - "I'd probably go back to the profile link"
       - "if it was denied I waouldn't be sure to submit a new on or an appeal"
       - "If I couldn't find it there I'd call b/c they are veruy nice and helpful. Or send a message"
       - "In addition to verifying me, they'd ask for the appointmenr date time and claim number"
       - "I would want more infromation on why it was denied so I can fix it going forward"


4. Lastly, looking at this page and this prototype as it relates to your experience submitting for travel reimbursement from the VA, do you have any feedback or insight you wanted to share that we haven’t already discussed?

     **NOTES:**

   - "I don't. This has been fun to be a part of"
   
