## **Instructions**

We will be able to get ok transcripts from EnjoyHQ, so focus notes on observations, clearly defined interpretations, and impactful utterances.



* Focus on observations of user behavior. 
    * Example of observation: “Participants clicks on My VA tab, hovers over X header, then back buttons to landing page.” 
    * Example of observation: “Participant says ‘this is annoying, that makes no sense.’ when looking to login to BTSSS.”
* Be clear where notetaker is interpreting or making inferences of what participant is thinking/feeling
    * Example of interpretation: “Based on facial expressions, participant seems to be confused.  Going back and forth between X and Y pages seems like they are looking for something.”
    * Example of interpretation: “Participant easily found link no frustration.”

**Date and time of interview:** Thursday, April 18 2:30pm – 3:30pm

## **Task 1: Navigate to Travel Reimbursement Status page**

From landing page:

_Task:_ Imagine that you have submitted several requests to be reimbursed for driving to see your VA doctor multiple times following surgery in Spring 2023. You want to know what happened to those requests. **Using this prototype, where would you find this information?**

Please remember to think aloud and describe what you are looking for.

**NOTES:** Focus on clicks and paths taken/attempted

- "I'd have to login b/c it won't give you any inforamtion until you logon"
- Clicks sign in and id.me
- "Should I go to My Profile?"
- "With the old one on the completely different website. I wouldn't have access to my cliams" I'm looking for something that would say travel reimbusement"
- "Request travel eeimburesment... that might me my only optionunless I go go My Profile"
- Click Request travel reimbursement "I'd expect it to load that ridiculisy slow website"
- "Maybe I'd look on the menu"
- "The only thing I can think of would be Request travel reimbuseerment"
- Looks through all the cards on MyVA
- "I'm looking for words like travel pay reimbursement"
- Prompted to click on Mark (mobile nav) for MyHealtheVet
- "Looks similar to what I use to manage claims and medications"
- On Claims travle page


## **Task 2: Travel Reimbursement Status page expectations**

From travel claims page: 

1. How would you **describe** what you see on this page?

   a. How would you **summarize** this page to another veteran?

  **NOTES:** Focus on keyword descriptors 

  - "I'd summarize as a page where you check status of travle claims submitted. Maybe as far back as a year"
  - 

3. Looking at this page, what do you expect to **be able to do here**?

    b. Looking at this page, what looks like something you can **click or take action on**?

    **NOTES:**


4.  Looking at this page, what would you want to be able to do on here that you **can’t do now on this page**?

      **NOTES:**
    - "I'd expect that I'd be able to see each travle claim I've made and it's status, denied adn son on"
    - "At the top I see you can sort" "i'd want to do older adn be able to click on that particular claim and go to and be able to see more of it"
    - "I'd want to click on the appointmemt date and then go to a differnt screen that tells me all the information about it"
    - What would be ont he other page "all the other infor mation. Why is denied adn what else I need to do because if it's not paid and I'd want to make it happen" "Sometime things are denied beacuse I didn't submit the proof that I was there"
    - "I'd like to click on the specific appointments and give me more details"
    - "An abilty to search for a specific time and date"
    - 


6.  Now let’s look at the card at the top of the page.  Reading through it, what can you tell me about it?

     **NOTES:** Focus on keyword descriptors
    - "It is a travel reimbusement claim that I submitted for the day of Friday... I don't know what ET stands for. It was submitted on... and updated..."
    - "Card hearder is date of appointmetnt. Where is where it was"
    - Details "Tells me the number and stats and maybe it could have the amount paid if it was paid"
    - "Status means where the claim is in the process. Denied or manual review where a person needs to look at it and in payment. I don't lknow what In Progress mean"
    - "Claim numbet i sthe specific number of the cliam you submitted."
    - "Submitted on is the day you submitted the paper or claim into the system. The BTSSS system"
    - "Updated is the last time someone has touched it.
    - "I'd definetly make it linkable. Adn if it's submitted for payment or paid what the amount was"
    - "Maybe say what the appointment was for or where it was in the VA... primary care or optomistrist. That would help if I was looking for a sepcific claim. Espically when you have more than opne appointment in a day"
    - "I don't think I'd take awaya anything"
    - "I'd add the appointmenat was for or where it was"

  
8.  Coming back to our original task, what can you tell me about **what’s going on with your claims for your Spring 2023** doctor visits?
    - Do you think any of these claims **require you to do anything else?**

      **NOTES:** Focus on expectations
      - "April On hold but no idea why. March was denied no idea why"
      - "On hold means that there is smoething lacking in the calim. It needs something more to process it. When it's On Hold it's stuck or I didn't put something in."
      - "In manual review means a human has to go in and take a look at it"
      - "Yeah, all of these claims require need me to do someing. April is on hold and I need to do something to make it not on hold but I can't don anything from here, but if I could access this particular claim it could tell me why it's on hold"



## Questions on how to appeal

1. Let’s look at that claim that was **denied**. Imagine that you wanted to **appeal** that claim denial. What **information would you need** to appeal that denial?

     **NOTES:** Focus on comprehension
   - "I'd need the reason in oder to appeal it. If it was denied b/c I didn't put something in there then I could give them what they need. Or a situation where thye say I have the appointment mutliple times on the same day. Or maybe I did do a copy and it's my fault"



3. Do you think you could **start that appeal process from here**?  
    1. If **yes, how** would you do that?
        1. Probe: What **information would you need** to make that appeal?
    2. If no: If you **can’t** start it from here, but you still wanted to appeal, **how** would you do that?

        **NOTES:** Focus on thought process and if they can articulate the process
    - "I think I should be able to clink on a claim and be able to find out why and possibly upload something to alterate it"
   - "It says I can manage the calim at the protal or call this number"
   - "I would need the claim number if I were to go there or call and proof of who you are b/c you have to have that everytime you call"
    - "Ultimately if you are using an app or webiste it should give you the information you need and possibly even start a review of the denied or whatever. You're trying to elimate the call of the call"


4. Lastly, looking at this page and this prototype as it relates to your experience submitting for travel reimbursement from the VA, do you have any feedback or insight you wanted to share that we haven’t already discussed?

     **NOTES:**
   - "This seems like it could be good if allows you access each specific claim and submit an appeal. But the portal is very un-user freidnly and hard to deal with and at the moment I can't add appointments. I'm not capable and they haven't fixed that. I now have to call them then go into the system adn then submit waht they need."
   - "Prior to that the doctor office would do it for me which was awesome. It should be that easy"
   - "I want to be able to see and do adn priortize the reasoning for the claim status because without knowing why you can't fix it or what the problem is"
   - "I'd want to do... be able to resubmit or start an appeal"
   - "This is the app that I use... if you can come up to something like the app for travel then that would be great."
   - "All of my non-Va appointments I have to call. Most of my appointments are community care"
   - "I file the majority of my claims through the portal but when I go to the VA hospital I fill out paper claims as it takes just as much time to write it out then it does to use the portal"
   - "If I go the VA hosptial Id prefer that they just pay me since they know I was there"
   - "Did yfeel the kiosks where easier than paper but I did see eldery people have trouble with them"
