**Date and time: 2024-04-22-11amET**

## **Instructions**

We will be able to get ok transcripts from EnjoyHQ, so focus notes on observations, clearly defined interpretations, and impactful utterances.



* Focus on observations of user behavior. 
    * Example of observation: “Participants clicks on My VA tab, hovers over X header, then back buttons to landing page.” 
    * Example of observation: “Participant says ‘this is annoying, that makes no sense.’ when looking to login to BTSSS.”
* Be clear where notetaker is interpreting or making inferences of what participant is thinking/feeling
    * Example of interpretation: “Based on facial expressions, participant seems to be confused.  Going back and forth between X and Y pages seems like they are looking for something.”
    * Example of interpretation: “Participant easily found link no frustration.” 

## **Task 1: Navigate to Travel Reimbursement Status page**

From landing page:

_Task:_ Imagine that you have submitted several requests to be reimbursed for driving to see your VA doctor multiple times following surgery in Spring 2023. You want to know what happened to those requests. **Using this prototype, where would you find this information?**

Please remember to think aloud and describe what you are looking for.

**NOTES:** Focus on clicks and paths taken/attempted

- "Supposed to be travel reimbuserment. Looiginf for somejitng related to travel reimbursement"
- user clicks get reimbusered dfor travel pay from top pages
- Scolling looking for status. Evething this is focused on how to do it
- "See the accordian for "How do I check status.."
- User login...
- User gets to travel reimbursement claim stauts page
- 


## **Task 2: Travel Reimbursement Status page expectations**

From travel claims page: 

1. How would you **describe** what you see on this page?

   a. How would you **summarize** this page to another veteran?

  **NOTES:** Focus on keyword descriptors 
  - "Showing me claims fike in revers date order"
  - "Dates adn location, status"
  - "This page is coveivng the basics of the files I calmes date adn time and staus"

3. Looking at this page, what do you expect to **be able to do here**?

    b. Looking at this page, what looks like something you can **click or take action on**?

    **NOTES:**
   - "The ones that are eened oor in prgress adn click on a link to see details. But i dont' see anything that does that"
   - "I can click on the menu and the sort looks like I can click on it"
   - "I'd want to see live links I'd like to click on the details and see the details"
   - "Where it says denied it would be nice to know why"
   - "A definiation of the claim status somewhere b/c I don't kn ow waht they all mean"
   - "Feedback link looks clickable and the live links"


5.  Looking at this page, what would you want to be able to do on here that you **can’t do now on this page**?

      **NOTES:** 
- "With in cliam I'd like to see more details"
- "The ones that are denied it would be nice to know why"
- 

6.  Now let’s look at the card at the top of the page.  Reading through it, what can you tell me about it?

     **NOTES:** Focus on keyword descriptors
    - "An appointment and the Chyenned med center adn it was denied"
    - "Date of the appointmetn in st eh ehader"
    - "Where is location of the treatme"
    - "Claim details is what the status and when it was updated adn submitted. Clime number"
    - "Status means denied, paid, etc"
    - "Claime number is a referenct to that particulatr claim"
    - "Submitted is when tis' submitted"
    - "Updated is when they denied the claim"
    - "The format is fine but links to details would be better"
    - "Under the claime number I'd like to be able to click to full claim I submitted so I can see the details"
    - "Details about why it was denied. Again to know waht is going on like the one In Manual review or On hold. Why and if there is anything on my part that needs to be done."
    - References Sato travel from the coast guard
    - "It;'s not a live card and if it's denied I'd like to knwo why"
    - "I'd take away nothing"
    - "I'd like to see more details as to why it is denied"
    - "The fromat is fine and clear"

  
8.  Coming back to our original task, what can you tell me about **what’s going on with your claims for your Spring 2023** doctor visits?
    - Do you think any of these claims **require you to do anything else?**

      **NOTES:** Focus on expectations 
- Tries to sort then scrolls down
- "Got some hold ones that we're not completed, in manula review and denied"
- "In manual imples that an automated process that kicks it out to a human that is manulally reviews in the claim and it hasn't been updated in 11 months baccording to the update line"
- "On Hold looks like nothing has happend to it for 11 month... "In manual revew imples that something is still goin on"
- "I don't know if thises claims need me to do something unless there wassome email that was send out"
- "Those two examples seem incoplete. Compolete would be denied or paid"
- "Compalete would see a status of Claim Paid"


## Questions on how to appeal

1. Let’s look at that claim that was **denied**. Imagine that you wanted to **appeal** that claim denial. What **information would you need** to appeal that denial?

     **NOTES:** Focus on comprehension
   - "I'd need the appeal process information."
   - "I'd need the claim number and the reasosn is was denied"
   - "I'd need to refernce the claim itself"



3. Do you think you could **start that appeal process from here**?  
    1. If **yes, how** would you do that?
        1. Probe: What **information would you need** to make that appeal?
    2. If no: If you **can’t** start it from here, but you still wanted to appeal, **how** would you do that?

        **NOTES:** Focus on thought process and if they can articulate the process
   - "Not with the inofrmation provided so far I cannot appeal from here"
   - "I'd need a link to the appeal process" I think I saw something on a previous page that refenced that. Maybe in the whitespace to the right or within the card itself.
   - "The easiest wasy would be a to have a link to appeal"
   - User is not noticing the copy at the bottom of the page to appeal with the portal or help numnber
   - "I'd want to see more details so I can open it or print it"
   - See newest first... "I could sort by date. Maybe a calendar for specific times. I can't image I'd have that many claims that this wouldn't be enough."

4. Lastly, looking at this page and this prototype as it relates to your experience submitting for travel reimbursement from the VA, do you have any feedback or insight you wanted to share that we haven’t already discussed?

     **NOTES:**
   - "Nothing further"
