# **Participant 19, 03/27 and 2:30pm ET**


## **Instructions**

We will be able to get ok transcripts from EnjoyHQ, so focus notes on observations, clearly defined interpretations, and impactful utterances.



* Focus on observations of user behavior.
    * Example of observation: “Participants clicks on My VA tab, hovers over X header, then back buttons to landing page.”
    * Example of observation: “Participant says ‘this is annoying, that makes no sense.’ when looking to login to BTSSS.”
* Be clear where notetaker is interpreting or making inferences of what participant is thinking/feeling
    * Example of interpretation: “Based on facial expressions, participant seems to be confused. Going back and forth between X and Y pages seems like they are looking for something.”
    * Example of interpretation: “Participant easily found link no frustration.”

## **Section 1: Warm up questions (max 10 min)**

**1.** What type of device are you using right now?
   Laptop 
   
**2.** I know that you recently traveled to a VA facility for a medical appointment.  How did you get to your medical appointment (drive, public transit. etc)? 
  -  If drove: did you have to take any tolls or have any parking fees?
   Drove, no tolls/parking

**4.** Do you think travel for a medical appointment is something that a Veteran can be reimbursed for? Do you think you could be reimbursed for it? What makes you say so?
   - No. Feel like I should take responsibility for that, but think there are Veterans who need it.
   
**5.** If you have submitted for travel pay in the past, how have you done so?
  - How often have you submitted for travel pay?
    - Have not submitted in the past
    - It's odd because I need to go to a different site (travel claim portal)
   
**6.** If you wanted to submit for reimbursement for traveling for your appointment, where would you expect to do that?
      - On my phone, on VA website
      - If it's for files, use laptop
  - When it comes to your travel reimbursement claims, what would you expect to be able to do on VA.gov?
  - Do you think you could submit for travel reimbursement on VA.gov?
     - It would be a lot easier to be in one place
     - Why not do it automatically for me?

## **Section 3: UAT Tasks (30-40 min)**


### Start 

**Task 1A: Find the entry point to submission:** Now, you want to submit for reimbursement for the cost of your most recent trip for a VA medical visit.  From here, where would you expect to be able to do that?  Can you show me where you would expect to start this process.
   - My VA - "Request travel reimbursement" link - expect to give me a list my visits, and ask one which one I want to request
   - I've gone somewhere else (BTSSS). Confused about what BTSSS is.
- What are you looking for?
  - "schedule and management your appointments" on My VA
     - expect to see Prior, and future appointments
  - Click "past" - expect to see appts I had since I've been with the VA
  - Details - expect medical records, results of the test, more information, doctor name, could have travel option, hope to see appts results
  - Surprised to see this appt (the most recent appt) has already been filed for claim
  - "check status" - I'd like to know the amount
- What do you see that makes you think that you can submit here?
  - _No other recent appts_
  - Older appt (+30 days) - read the alert - expect to fill out a form after clicking on the file link in alert
  - M ask to go back - P clicked on back button on BTSSS browser
  - Used browser back button to go back to past appointments from details
  - Like to see the results of lab works
 

**Task 2 Start submission** [on Past Appointments page]: Looking at this page, what, if anything do you think you could do here related to travel pay?
- Probe: what do you think would happen if you clicked that?
- CONFRIM CLAIM SCENARIO: [Do they understand that  they have already submitted?] 

 **IF COMPLEX CLAIM, SKIP TO 3A, OTHERWISE CONTINUE**


### Mileage Only

**Task 3 Capabilities comprehension**[on first submission screen]: Can you describe for me what you are looking at.  What do you think you can and cannot do from here? What are you looking at that makes you say so?
-	Probe: What would you expect to happen if you clicked that?
- OPTIONAL SKIP IF CONFIRM CLAIM SCENARIO

**Task 4 Submit SMOC** [first screen in qualifier questions]:  Ok, can you please go ahead and complete the submission.  [On each question screen ask:]
- Tell me what you are looking at
- What can you do from here
- What do you expect to happen next
- OPTIONAL SKIP IF CONFIRM CLAIM SCENARIO

 **Task 5 Confirm Submission**[submission confirmation page]: Can you describe for me what you are looking at. 
- Probe: What tells you that?
- What do you expect to happen next? [KM7] [CF8] 

 
###  Complex Claim

***If they click “Learn how to file claims for other expenses” on the first submission screen, go to Task 3a. If not, skip to Task 4a.***

**Task 3A Capabilities comprehension / Redirected to “VA Travel Reimbursement page”** [If they click “Learn how to file claims for other expenses” on first submission screen]: Can you describe for me what you are looking at.  What do you think you can and cannot do from here? What are you looking at that makes you say so?
- Probe: What would you expect to happen if you clicked that?

 **Skip Task 4 and 5 if redirected before starting qualifying questions**

**Task 4a Redirect to BTSSS from qualifying questions**: [first screen in qualifier questions]:  Ok, can you please go ahead and complete the submission.  [On each question screen ask:]
- Tell me what you are looking at
- What can you do from here
- What do you expect to happen next

**Task 5a On BTSSS**: Can you describe for me what you are looking at.  
- Probe: What tells you that?
- What do you expect to happen next? 


## Section 4: Final thoughts and closing

**6.** How easy or difficult would you say this process was? What makes you say so?
- Finding the travel pay - easy, if I just read it, it's easy

**7.** What would you change about this process? What makes you say so?
- Automated, you know my home address and my clinic

**8.** What would you keep and why?
- Clean, and the flexibility of seeing travel claim multiple places 

**9.** Do you have any other feedback about this process for submitting travel claims? Anything else you want to share that we have not covered?
- on my phone (VAHB mobile app), I'd like it to connect to travel pay. 
