# **Participant 11, 3/24 and 1pm ET**


## **Instructions**

We will be able to get ok transcripts from EnjoyHQ, so focus notes on observations, clearly defined interpretations, and impactful utterances.



* Focus on observations of user behavior.
    * Example of observation: “Participants clicks on My VA tab, hovers over X header, then back buttons to landing page.”
    * Example of observation: “Participant says ‘this is annoying, that makes no sense.’ when looking to login to BTSSS.”
* Be clear where notetaker is interpreting or making inferences of what participant is thinking/feeling
    * Example of interpretation: “Based on facial expressions, participant seems to be confused. Going back and forth between X and Y pages seems like they are looking for something.”
    * Example of interpretation: “Participant easily found link no frustration.”

## **Section 1: Warm up questions (max 10 min)**

**1.** What type of device are you using right now?
   - Laptop
   
**2.** I know that you recently traveled to a VA facility for a medical appointment.  How did you get to your medical appointment (drive, public transit. etc)? 
  -  If drove: did you have to take any tolls or have any parking fees?
    - Drove myself, no parking/tolls
   
**4.** Do you think travel for a medical appointment is something that a Veteran can be reimbursed for? Do you think you could be reimbursed for it? What makes you say so?
   - Depends on the distance, yes, if they have a hotel stay, I'd say yes
   - 50+miles one way
   - He's a reservist - so he relates travel reimbursement to when he goes to his duty station - there should be a per diem.
   - He doesn't think he would be reimbused because it's not far from him, but he would like to get reimbursed and also thought it's a waste
   
**5.** If you have submitted for travel pay in the past, how have you done so?
  - How often have you submitted for travel pay?
    - Never
   
**6.** If you wanted to submit for reimbursement for traveling for your appointment, where would you expect to do that?
      - VA home page (guess) - VA.gov 
  - When it comes to your travel reimbursement claims, what would you expect to be able to do on VA.gov?
    - Not sure
  - Do you think you could submit for travel reimbursement on VA.gov?
    - Yes and no (50% 50%)
    - (yes) There may be information about submitting on VA.gov
    - (no) Not sure why said no


## **Section 3: UAT Tasks (30-40 min)**


### Start 

**Task 1A: Find the entry point to submission:** Now, you want to submit for reimbursement for the cost of your most recent trip for a VA medical visit.  From here, where would you expect to be able to do that?  Can you show me where you would expect to start this process.
- What are you looking for?
- What do you see that makes you think that you can submit here?
 

**Task 2 Start submission** [on Past Appointments page]: Looking at this page, what, if anything do you think you could do here related to travel pay?
- Probe: what do you think would happen if you clicked that?
- CONFRIM CLAIM SCENARIO: [Do they understand that  they have already submitted?] 

 **IF COMPLEX CLAIM, SKIP TO 3A, OTHERWISE CONTINUE**


### Mileage Only

**Task 3 Capabilities comprehension**[on first submission screen]: Can you describe for me what you are looking at.  What do you think you can and cannot do from here? What are you looking at that makes you say so?
- VA.gov (unauth) - point to "Get travel reimbursement link" on home page
- M asked P to sign in
  
-	Probe: What would you expect to happen if you clicked that?
    - On My VA - "request travel reimbursement" link - expect to fill in date, travel and milage
    - BTSSS welcome page - expect to take me to the travel service system, and travel reimbursement may pop up 
- Where else to look: Main menu > health care > get travel pay reumbursement (expect to take to the same place - BTSSS)
  - Content page - looking and reading eligibility, which he thought he could get reimbursement, also could apply claims from there, not sure where else he could go to file claim
  - Asked to go to MHV home - payments card > "file a claim" link, not where else he would look
  - When asked to file for recent appt on Appointments list - went to past > details
  - File action link, expected to see BTSSS
  - Instructions page - reading, and clicked on eligibity link quickly
  - Quickly answer all the questions, and continue
  - Review page - everything looks right, without reading the agreement, but assume it asks if I'm doing by the book
  - Claim successful 
  - Back to appt details page to check on status
  - Didn't see how the milage is calculated
  - Went on his phone to check the miles from home to the facility
  - Didn't think he has set up direct deposit, click on the set up link, then download form
  - If not the paper form, he would call VA to set it up
  - Back to resources/how-to-set-up-direct-deposit-for-va-travel.../, after reading the page now, he realized he could also set up on AccessVA portal.
  - Asked to check on status - went back to appt details page 


- OPTIONAL SKIP IF CONFIRM CLAIM SCENARIO

**Task 4 Submit SMOC** [first screen in qualifier questions]:  Ok, can you please go ahead and complete the submission.  [On each question screen ask:]
- Tell me what you are looking at
- What can you do from here
- What do you expect to happen next
- OPTIONAL SKIP IF CONFIRM CLAIM SCENARIO

 **Task 5 Confirm Submission**[submission confirmation page]: Can you describe for me what you are looking at. 
- Probe: What tells you that?
- What do you expect to happen next? [KM7] [CF8] 

 
###  Complex Claim

***If they click “Learn how to file claims for other expenses” on the first submission screen, go to Task 3a. If not, skip to Task 4a.***

**Task 3A Capabilities comprehension / Redirected to “VA Travel Reimbursement page”** [If they click “Learn how to file claims for other expenses” on first submission screen]: Can you describe for me what you are looking at.  What do you think you can and cannot do from here? What are you looking at that makes you say so?
- Probe: What would you expect to happen if you clicked that?

 **Skip Task 4 and 5 if redirected before starting qualifying questions**

**Task 4a Redirect to BTSSS from qualifying questions**: [first screen in qualifier questions]:  Ok, can you please go ahead and complete the submission.  [On each question screen ask:]
- Tell me what you are looking at
- What can you do from here
- What do you expect to happen next

**Task 5a On BTSSS**: Can you describe for me what you are looking at.  
- Probe: What tells you that?
- What do you expect to happen next? 


## Section 4: Final thoughts and closing

**6.** How easy or difficult would you say this process was? What makes you say so?
Difficult - never done this much with VA website

**7.** What would you change about this process? What makes you say so?
Have you filed travel reimbursement? on VA, something prompts him and inform him what to do "pop up"

**8.** What would you keep and why?
- Just the pop up, nothing else
- Pop up - "right in my face", something asks "you had an appointment, would you like to file your travel reimbursement?" 

**9.** Do you have any other feedback about this process for submitting travel claims? Anything else you want to share that we have not covered?
- Looked at an old appointment (older than 30 days) - January 27
  - Cancelled appointment shouldn't have had the link


