# **Participant 10, Monday March 24 at 10am EST**


## **Instructions**

We will be able to get ok transcripts from EnjoyHQ, so focus notes on observations, clearly defined interpretations, and impactful utterances.



* Focus on observations of user behavior.
    * Example of observation: “Participants clicks on My VA tab, hovers over X header, then back buttons to landing page.”
    * Example of observation: “Participant says ‘this is annoying, that makes no sense.’ when looking to login to BTSSS.”
* Be clear where notetaker is interpreting or making inferences of what participant is thinking/feeling
    * Example of interpretation: “Based on facial expressions, participant seems to be confused. Going back and forth between X and Y pages seems like they are looking for something.”
    * Example of interpretation: “Participant easily found link no frustration.”

## **Section 1: Warm up questions (max 10 min)**

**1.** What type of device are you using right now?

laptop
   
**2.** I know that you recently traveled to a VA facility for a medical appointment.  How did you get to your medical appointment (drive, public transit. etc)? 
  -  If drove: did you have to take any tolls or have any parking fees?

drove, no tolls or parking fees.  one was 2 facilities in one day - from home to location 1, loc 1 to loc 2, then loc 2 to home.
   
**4.** Do you think travel for a medical appointment is something that a Veteran can be reimbursed for? Do you think you could be reimbursed for it? What makes you say so?
Yes, and yes thinks she can be reimbursed.  Because she has been reimbursed in the past.

**5.** If you have submitted for travel pay in the past, how have you done so?
  - How often have you submitted for travel pay?

Ususally after appt will go to the office and fill out the paperwork 
   
**6.** If you wanted to submit for reimbursement for traveling for your appointment, where would you expect to do that?
  - When it comes to your travel reimbursement claims, what would you expect to be able to do on VA.gov?
  - Do you think you could submit for travel reimbursement on VA.gov?

If there is too much of a wait at the office, will do it online.  Originally did it on MyHealtheVet but then had to login again.  "This one you had to put it in seperately and it takes a long time to load...and if it's a community care I have to attach the cover" 
On VA.gov "almost every day because I'm checking different things" 

## **Section 3: UAT Tasks (30-40 min)**


### Start 

**Task 1A: Find the entry point to submission:** Now, you want to submit for reimbursement for the cost of your most recent trip for a VA medical visit.  From here, where would you expect to be able to do that?  Can you show me where you would expect to start this process.
- What are you looking for?
- What do you see that makes you think that you can submit here?

NOTE: participant logged into MHV direct then redirected to VA.gov, lands on MHV on VA.gov 

Participant goes to Search bar and enters "travel reimbursement form", scanning the results page, looking for a direct link... knows she is Looking for "BTTS" 

Clicks on "File a travel claim..." and is redirected to BTSSS landing page 
Participant says that it's what she expects but thinks it should be easier because you have to verigy so many times 

Moderator asks participant to look for her past appointments, she clicks on MHV tab

repeats task -- participant clicks "Manage appointments" in Appointments page, lands on upcoming appts 
Participant does not see past appointment --- facilitator directs to "Past" tab 

Finds appts expects/clicks "Details" 




**Task 2 Start submission** [on Past Appointments page]: Looking at this page, what, if anything do you think you could do here related to travel pay?
- Probe: what do you think would happen if you clicked that?
- CONFRIM CLAIM SCENARIO: [Do they understand that  they have already submitted?] 
On Details page -- expects to be able to file


 **IF COMPLEX CLAIM, SKIP TO 3A, OTHERWISE CONTINUE**


### Mileage Only

**Task 3 Capabilities comprehension**[on first submission screen]: Can you describe for me what you are looking at.  What do you think you can and cannot do from here? What are you looking at that makes you say so?
-	Probe: What would you expect to happen if you clicked that?
- OPTIONAL SKIP IF CONFIRM CLAIM SCENARIO

**Task 4 Submit SMOC** [first screen in qualifier questions]:  Ok, can you please go ahead and complete the submission.  [On each question screen ask:]
- Tell me what you are looking at
- What can you do from here
- What do you expect to happen next
- OPTIONAL SKIP IF CONFIRM CLAIM SCENARIO

 **Task 5 Confirm Submission**[submission confirmation page]: Can you describe for me what you are looking at. 
- Probe: What tells you that?
- What do you expect to happen next? [KM7] [CF8] 

 
###  Complex Claim

***If they click “Learn how to file claims for other expenses” on the first submission screen, go to Task 3a. If not, skip to Task 4a.***

**Task 3A Capabilities comprehension / Redirected to “VA Travel Reimbursement page”** [If they click “Learn how to file claims for other expenses” on first submission screen]: Can you describe for me what you are looking at.  What do you think you can and cannot do from here? What are you looking at that makes you say so?
- Probe: What would you expect to happen if you clicked that?

Details page > File > land on this page.  "If I had an appt that was more than mileage, I don't know if I'd want to file that... I see it's a burden time of 10 minutes" She's not sure that she can complete what she needs to complete 
"This one... it could be 2 options...without having to attach receipts and everything" 

Sometimes when she has to file a claim she will use her phone because she can attach an image of a receipt 

Participant unsure, facilitator directs to go ahead 


 **Skip Task 4 and 5 if redirected before starting qualifying questions**

**Task 4a Redirect to BTSSS from qualifying questions**: [first screen in qualifier questions]:  Ok, can you please go ahead and complete the submission.  [On each question screen ask:]
- Tell me what you are looking at
- What can you do from here
- What do you expect to happen next

Participant unsure.  Disappointmentd.  Would think this means she can only file for mileage.  
Answers "no" to "Are you claiming only mileage" 

Participant lands on "We can't file this claim in this tool at this time" page... says she would normally go back out and go to idme and MyHealtheVet and fill it out there 
Participant clicks on "File a travel claim online (opens in a new tab)"

**Task 5a On BTSSS**: Can you describe for me what you are looking at.  
- Probe: What tells you that?
- What do you expect to happen next? 

Participants recognizes BTSSS, 


## Section 4: Final thoughts and closing

**6.** How easy or difficult would you say this process was? What makes you say so?

"It's easier if you are only fiing for mileage" "It loads quicker than the actual beneficiary travel site" 


**7.** What would you change about this process? What makes you say so?

Participant would change the option for filing for mileage-only.  Because things take too long to load.  On these pages, you are on a time limit.  If I'm multi-tasking it will time me out, like being logged oout.  You can't do anyting without reverifying.  


**8.** What would you keep and why?

Would keep the mileage only because it's convenient.  Participant would do it if it's mileage only.  

**9.** Do you have any other feedback about this process for submitting travel claims? Anything else you want to share that we have not covered?
"it's already kind of exhausing have to login" "if we could have less verificiation" 




