# **Participant #, Date and time**


## **Instructions**

We will be able to get ok transcripts from EnjoyHQ, so focus notes on observations, clearly defined interpretations, and impactful utterances.



* Focus on observations of user behavior.
    * Example of observation: “Participants clicks on My VA tab, hovers over X header, then back buttons to landing page.”
    * Example of observation: “Participant says ‘this is annoying, that makes no sense.’ when looking to login to BTSSS.”
* Be clear where notetaker is interpreting or making inferences of what participant is thinking/feeling
    * Example of interpretation: “Based on facial expressions, participant seems to be confused. Going back and forth between X and Y pages seems like they are looking for something.”
    * Example of interpretation: “Participant easily found link no frustration.”

## **Section 1: Warm up questions (max 10 min)**

**1.** What type of device are you using right now?
   - Desktop 
   
**2.** I know that you recently traveled to a VA facility for a medical appointment.  How did you get to your medical appointment (drive, public transit. etc)? 
  -  If drove: did you have to take any tolls or have any parking fees?
    - Drove myself, no tolls/parking fees
   
**4.** Do you think travel for a medical appointment is something that a Veteran can be reimbursed for? Do you think you could be reimbursed for it? What makes you say so?
   - It would be nice if we could. It'd be important. 
   - It would like to myself. I looked in it, but it was complicated, some fee and minimal fee... It wasn't much money since I didn't look into further. I'm interested in learning, and would apply. 
   - Someone would have to tell him he's eligible. 
   
**5.** If you have submitted for travel pay in the past, how have you done so?
  - How often have you submitted for travel pay?
    - never submitted
   
**6.** If you wanted to submit for reimbursement for traveling for your appointment, where would you expect to do that?
    - check MHV first
    - Travel office in-person
    - prefer to do it at home
    - Like MHV, and go on several times a week to use lots of the tools in there.
  - When it comes to your travel reimbursement claims, what would you expect to be able to do on VA.gov?
    - First look at benefits on MHV, look for travel 
  - Do you think you could submit for travel reimbursement on VA.gov?
    - Yes


## **Section 3: UAT Tasks (30-40 min)**


### Start 

**Task 1A: Find the entry point to submission:** Now, you want to submit for reimbursement for the cost of your most recent trip for a VA medical visit.  From here, where would you expect to be able to do that?  Can you show me where you would expect to start this process.
- What are you looking for?
- What do you see that makes you think that you can submit here?

  - Doesn't seem like to be familiar with VA.gov home, access MHV through bookmark
  - list of claims I can file for - "learn how to file a claim" link on My VA - "That's not what I want
  - maybe "My HealtheVet" - it sounds more friendly, and knows it has a benefits section
  - After click MHV, look for "VA benefits and health care" and "travel reimbursement"
  - Scroll down to "payments" section - "file a claim for..." link
    - expect to file a claim
  - M: Where else?
    - "check travel reimbursement claim status" - "probably going to tell me I don't have a claim yet."
    - "no travel claims to show" - match expectation
  - M: Can you click "appointment"?
    - appointment? - suprised and shocked
    - I wouldn't go there, it's travel reimbursement 


**Task 2 Start submission** [on Past Appointments page]: Looking at this page, what, if anything do you think you could do here related to travel pay?
   - No, I can't file here - looking at upcoming appointment list
   - M prompted to click on Past
   - Clicked details - expect more information about room, type of appt, floor number
   - Didn't expect to find it in details 
- Probe: what do you think would happen if you clicked that?
  - Expect to see home, location, estimated milage round trip
  - Read instruction page throughly
  - then click "learn how to..." link
  - I want to know if I'm eligible for it, then proceed to read, "yes, I'm eligible", then scroll down to file online section
  - Would go to the office to file in-person, if not BTSSS
- CONFRIM CLAIM SCENARIO: [Do they understand that  they have already submitted?] 

 **IF COMPLEX CLAIM, SKIP TO 3A, OTHERWISE CONTINUE**


### Mileage Only

**Task 3 Capabilities comprehension**[on first submission screen]: Can you describe for me what you are looking at.  What do you think you can and cannot do from here? What are you looking at that makes you say so?
-	Probe: What would you expect to happen if you clicked that?
  - Expect to be simplier
  - Start to lose patience after all the steps and reading
  - open and learn "how we calculate" accordins
  - it was easy for him to answer and go through all the questions 
  - reading review page throughly
  - Tax question - "Is it a conflict?" *can users claim tax deduction for mileage?*
- OPTIONAL SKIP IF CONFIRM CLAIM SCENARIO

**Task 4 Submit SMOC** [first screen in qualifier questions]:  Ok, can you please go ahead and complete the submission.  [On each question screen ask:]
- Tell me what you are looking at
- What can you do from here
- What do you expect to happen next
- OPTIONAL SKIP IF CONFIRM CLAIM SCENARIO

  - Read the whole page - claim submitted
  - know that he can check status
  - I should know if it's approved or denied
  - "There it is!" when seeing approved for payment 

 **Task 5 Confirm Submission**[submission confirmation page]: Can you describe for me what you are looking at. 
- Probe: What tells you that?
- What do you expect to happen next? [KM7] [CF8] 

 
###  Complex Claim

***If they click “Learn how to file claims for other expenses” on the first submission screen, go to Task 3a. If not, skip to Task 4a.***

**Task 3A Capabilities comprehension / Redirected to “VA Travel Reimbursement page”** [If they click “Learn how to file claims for other expenses” on first submission screen]: Can you describe for me what you are looking at.  What do you think you can and cannot do from here? What are you looking at that makes you say so?
- Probe: What would you expect to happen if you clicked that?

 **Skip Task 4 and 5 if redirected before starting qualifying questions**

**Task 4a Redirect to BTSSS from qualifying questions**: [first screen in qualifier questions]:  Ok, can you please go ahead and complete the submission.  [On each question screen ask:]
- Tell me what you are looking at
- What can you do from here
- What do you expect to happen next

**Task 5a On BTSSS**: Can you describe for me what you are looking at.  
- Probe: What tells you that?
- What do you expect to happen next? 


## Section 4: Final thoughts and closing

**6.** How easy or difficult would you say this process was? What makes you say so?

**7.** What would you change about this process? What makes you say so?
- Fine and vaulable process for me and Veterans. Don't have any ideas on where to change. 
- Finding the file link/page to start the process was difficult

**8.** What would you keep and why?
- Everything

**9.** Do you have any other feedback about this process for submitting travel claims? Anything else you want to share that we have not covered?
- question "Is that actually approved? will it go to my bank account?"
