# **Participant 3, 2025-03-19-11:30pm-ET**


## **Instructions**

We will be able to get ok transcripts from EnjoyHQ, so focus notes on observations, clearly defined interpretations, and impactful utterances.



* Focus on observations of user behavior.
    * Example of observation: “Participants clicks on My VA tab, hovers over X header, then back buttons to landing page.”
    * Example of observation: “Participant says ‘this is annoying, that makes no sense.’ when looking to login to BTSSS.”
* Be clear where notetaker is interpreting or making inferences of what participant is thinking/feeling
    * Example of interpretation: “Based on facial expressions, participant seems to be confused. Going back and forth between X and Y pages seems like they are looking for something.”
    * Example of interpretation: “Participant easily found link no frustration.”

## **Section 1: Warm up questions (max 10 min)**

**1.** What type of device are you using right now?
- LAptop
   
**2.** I know that you recently traveled to a VA facility for a medical appointment.  How did you get to your medical appointment (drive, public transit. etc)? 
  -  If drove: did you have to take any tolls or have any parking fees?
  -  Drove by car
  -  No tolls r parking fees
   
**4.** Do you think travel for a medical appointment is something that a Veteran can be reimbursed for? Do you think you could be reimbursed for it? What makes you say so?
 - Yes to both
 - Honestly because I have been in the past
   
**5.** If you have submitted for travel pay in the past, how have you done so?
    - Sometime in the VA a paper form. Sometimes online with BTSSS on my mobile phone
  - How often have you submitted for travel pay?
    - A lot. Every since I was service connected for years. About 6 per year.
   
**6.** If you wanted to submit for reimbursement for traveling for your appointment, where would you expect to do that?
    - Where you sign in at the facility. Now that it is online I usually just do that.
  - When it comes to your travel reimbursement claims, what would you expect to be able to do on VA.gov?
    - Fill ou thte form submit for appointments that are already in VA.gov
  - Do you think you could submit for travel reimbursement on VA.gov?
    - Yes


## **Section 3: UAT Tasks (30-40 min)**


### Start 

User was logged into BTSSS but not VA.gov

**Task 1A: Find the entry point to submission:** Now, you want to submit for reimbursement for the cost of your most recent trip for a VA medical visit.  From here, where would you expect to be able to do that?  Can you show me where you would expect to start this process.
- User clicks on "Request travel reimbursement" link that goes to BTSSS
- User's computer is very slow.
- User switched over to tablet
- User used the app
- Prompted user to switch to browser
- User is using a different email than the one we had for tthe feature flag
- Technical issues
- Finally got the user to the appointment list
- "I don't know if I can submit for travel reimbusement here"
- User clicks on Past appointments
- "I can look at details and see details about the appointment"
- CLicks on Details
- "Interesting! As soon as I clked on it I see File a Reimbusement claim"
- "I assume it will take me to BTSSS site"
- User clicks
- "It doesn't look like it's the BTSSS site. It just looks like VA.gov"
- "I can submit a mile-only claim" User clicks link
- Clicks yes and "Looks like I just hit continue"
- "It's a review. That was way faster that the other way (BTSSS)!"
- User confirms
- "WAY easier and shorter than the other way" "That's pretty cool!"
- "I assume it will be submitted and paid out pretty quick"
- "If I click it tis will tell me it is submitted"
- "I shows me it's submitted. Pretty cool!"
- "It shows it's in Manumal review. I guess they are looking at it"


- What are you looking for?
- What do you see that makes you think that you can submit here?
 - 
 

**Task 2 Start submission** [on Past Appointments page]: Looking at this page, what, if anything do you think you could do here related to travel pay?
- Probe: what do you think would happen if you clicked that?
- CONFRIM CLAIM SCENARIO: [Do they understand that  they have already submitted?] 

 **IF COMPLEX CLAIM, SKIP TO 3A, OTHERWISE CONTINUE**


### Mileage Only

**Task 3 Capabilities comprehension**[on first submission screen]: Can you describe for me what you are looking at.  What do you think you can and cannot do from here? What are you looking at that makes you say so?
-	Probe: What would you expect to happen if you clicked that?
- OPTIONAL SKIP IF CONFIRM CLAIM SCENARIO

**Task 4 Submit SMOC** [first screen in qualifier questions]:  Ok, can you please go ahead and complete the submission.  [On each question screen ask:]
- Tell me what you are looking at
- What can you do from here
- What do you expect to happen next
- OPTIONAL SKIP IF CONFIRM CLAIM SCENARIO

 **Task 5 Confirm Submission**[submission confirmation page]: Can you describe for me what you are looking at. 
- Probe: What tells you that?
- What do you expect to happen next? [KM7] [CF8] 

 
###  Complex Claim

***If they click “Learn how to file claims for other expenses” on the first submission screen, go to Task 3a. If not, skip to Task 4a.***

**Task 3A Capabilities comprehension / Redirected to “VA Travel Reimbursement page”** [If they click “Learn how to file claims for other expenses” on first submission screen]: Can you describe for me what you are looking at.  What do you think you can and cannot do from here? What are you looking at that makes you say so?
- Probe: What would you expect to happen if you clicked that?

 **Skip Task 4 and 5 if redirected before starting qualifying questions**

**Task 4a Redirect to BTSSS from qualifying questions**: [first screen in qualifier questions]:  Ok, can you please go ahead and complete the submission.  [On each question screen ask:]
- Tell me what you are looking at
- What can you do from here
- What do you expect to happen next

**Task 5a On BTSSS**: Can you describe for me what you are looking at.  
- Probe: What tells you that?
- What do you expect to happen next? 


## Section 4: Final thoughts and closing

**6.** How easy or difficult would you say this process was? What makes you say so?
- "Very easy! After I wnet from my appointmetn it was easy to find and everything was right there. It was shorter and to the point. I love it!"
- "Nothing. It was a whole lot longer goong the other way."
- "Others will find it easier. Once you know where to go it's easier. You don't have to go hunting."

**7.** What would you change about this process? What makes you say so?
- - "I can manually put in appointments on BTSSS. I'd like that here (VA.gov)."
- Make it easier to find

**8.** What would you keep and why?

**9.** Do you have any other feedback about this process for submitting travel claims? Anything else you want to share that we have not covered?
