# **Participant 14, March 25 10am est**


## **Instructions**

We will be able to get ok transcripts from EnjoyHQ, so focus notes on observations, clearly defined interpretations, and impactful utterances.



* Focus on observations of user behavior.
    * Example of observation: “Participants clicks on My VA tab, hovers over X header, then back buttons to landing page.”
    * Example of observation: “Participant says ‘this is annoying, that makes no sense.’ when looking to login to BTSSS.”
* Be clear where notetaker is interpreting or making inferences of what participant is thinking/feeling
    * Example of interpretation: “Based on facial expressions, participant seems to be confused. Going back and forth between X and Y pages seems like they are looking for something.”
    * Example of interpretation: “Participant easily found link no frustration.”

## **Section 1: Warm up questions (max 10 min)**

**1.** What type of device are you using right now?

windows PC 
   
**2.** I know that you recently traveled to a VA facility for a medical appointment.  How did you get to your medical appointment (drive, public transit. etc)? 
  -  If drove: did you have to take any tolls or have any parking fees?

Drove, no tolls or parking fees 
   
**4.** Do you think travel for a medical appointment is something that a Veteran can be reimbursed for? Do you think you could be reimbursed for it? What makes you say so?

"I believe so" unsure if he can be reimbursed because he has never done it before.  Unclear if he is eligible because he's never taken the time to understand before.
   
**5.** If you have submitted for travel pay in the past, how have you done so?
  - How often have you submitted for travel pay?
   
**6.** If you wanted to submit for reimbursement for traveling for your appointment, where would you expect to do that?
  - When it comes to your travel reimbursement claims, what would you expect to be able to do on VA.gov?
  - Do you think you could submit for travel reimbursement on VA.gov?

    Believes there is a kiosk at his VA and believes that you can do it online.  Would expect to do it on VA.gov, would look around but could probably find it.


## **Section 3: UAT Tasks (30-40 min)**


### Start 

**Task 1A: Find the entry point to submission:** Now, you want to submit for reimbursement for the cost of your most recent trip for a VA medical visit.  From here, where would you expect to be able to do that?  Can you show me where you would expect to start this process.
- What are you looking for?
- What do you see that makes you think that you can submit here?

First: wants to click on "Request travel reimbursement" on My VA under "Health care" expects the link would take him to some kind of form.  The form would auto fill in your name, SS, etc, because he is logged in.

Transition page to BTSSS: undestands there is a transition to another site.  On BTSSS portal, knows he is on another site.  Sees it as an extension of the VA systems because he sees the VA logo.  This makes sense to participant.  Thinks he can submit from BTSSS.

Backup to VA.gov My VA: think he would go to "MyHealtheVet" because that is where he would look for his last appt.  

hovers over "My VA > Health Cara > Next appt > Schedule and manage appts" as an option 

maybe would search "travel reimbursement" and go through those answers to look for a page iwth the information for what he needs to do to submit for reimbursement, maybe a form? 

On MHV page: he mostly uses secure messaging, rarely uses MHV page, exposes the submit link in payments but doesn't notic/see/understand it.  May go to "Records" for his past visit because it's in the past.     

Participant is directed to click on Manage appts.
 

**Task 2 Start submission** [on Past Appointments page]: Looking at this page, what, if anything do you think you could do here related to travel pay?
- Probe: what do you think would happen if you clicked that?
- CONFRIM CLAIM SCENARIO: [Do they understand that  they have already submitted?] 

ON Appts page, clicks "Past" Maybe would look at "Details" for the appt.  "This feels like a lot of layers, it's behind layers I wouldn't have looked"
Expect on Details page: stuff from the dr from last appt, not sure what to expect for travel

Was not expecting to see what he sees in the Details page.  Would expect to see notes with dr.  Sees 2 spots to file for a reimbursement claim.  "Interesting because I didn't expect it to be hidden behind everything... it's hidden behind a couple of layers"

"With all the layers I have a little bit of doubt about what I'll find..." 

Notices the difference between the task section and the bottom section 


 **IF COMPLEX CLAIM, SKIP TO 3A, OTHERWISE CONTINUE**


### Mileage Only

**Task 3 Capabilities comprehension**[on first submission screen]: Can you describe for me what you are looking at.  What do you think you can and cannot do from here? What are you looking at that makes you say so?
-	Probe: What would you expect to happen if you clicked that?
- OPTIONAL SKIP IF CONFIRM CLAIM SCENARIO

  "Looks like instructions on how to do it" participant reads through the page.  **Assumes that bc he has disability deposit his direct deposit is set up. **

   Would then go to the green mileage button because he "had no parking or tolls" understands he only wants to reimbursed for mileage 

**Task 4 Submit SMOC** [first screen in qualifier questions]:  Ok, can you please go ahead and complete the submission.  [On each question screen ask:]
- Tell me what you are looking at
- What can you do from here
- What do you expect to happen next
- OPTIONAL SKIP IF CONFIRM CLAIM SCENARIO

  Reads through mleage questions, undestands.  This is more or less what he expected.  Asked why the header is highlighted in yellow.  "Oh, it already knows my address! that's great"   

 **Task 5 Confirm Submission**[submission confirmation page]: Can you describe for me what you are looking at. 
- Probe: What tells you that?
- What do you expect to happen next?

  Reads through the page.  Seems to understand what he filing and agreeing to.  After, would expect to see some kind of confirmation of filing.  Submits, lands on error "Something went wrong on our end" thinks would

If wanted to continue, would click on the "Find out how to file for travel reimbursement" in error bc it's most relevant to the issue that occured.  Expect that if he clicks on that it would take him to BTSSS portal.  Clicks on it, lands on unauth page.  Did not expect to land on this page.  "So it's just another step between the BTSSS website" 

on unauth page, looks through eligility requirements

 
###  Complex Claim

***If they click “Learn how to file claims for other expenses” on the first submission screen, go to Task 3a. If not, skip to Task 4a.***

**Task 3A Capabilities comprehension / Redirected to “VA Travel Reimbursement page”** [If they click “Learn how to file claims for other expenses” on first submission screen]: Can you describe for me what you are looking at.  What do you think you can and cannot do from here? What are you looking at that makes you say so?
- Probe: What would you expect to happen if you clicked that?

 **Skip Task 4 and 5 if redirected before starting qualifying questions**

**Task 4a Redirect to BTSSS from qualifying questions**: [first screen in qualifier questions]:  Ok, can you please go ahead and complete the submission.  [On each question screen ask:]
- Tell me what you are looking at
- What can you do from here
- What do you expect to happen next

**Task 5a On BTSSS**: Can you describe for me what you are looking at.  
- Probe: What tells you that?
- What do you expect to happen next? 


## Section 4: Final thoughts and closing

**6.** How easy or difficult would you say this process was? What makes you say so?

"It feels tedious" 

**7.** What would you change about this process? What makes you say so?

Make it less layered.  Maybe like a tab in MyHealtheVet.

**8.** What would you keep and why?

The green arrow draws attention.  Size and font definitely helps.  Limiting the things you can click on was nice, limits redirects. 

**9.** Do you have any other feedback about this process for submitting travel claims? Anything else you want to share that we have not covered?

Maybe a notification would be nice.  Like a reminder bc I've been to many appts.  Email notification with direct link would be fantastic.  If on VA.gov, expect a notification as a red dot that won't go away until you read it.  

