# **Participant 18, 03/27/2025 10am ET**


## **Instructions**

We will be able to get ok transcripts from EnjoyHQ, so focus notes on observations, clearly defined interpretations, and impactful utterances.



* Focus on observations of user behavior.
    * Example of observation: “Participants clicks on My VA tab, hovers over X header, then back buttons to landing page.”
    * Example of observation: “Participant says ‘this is annoying, that makes no sense.’ when looking to login to BTSSS.”
* Be clear where notetaker is interpreting or making inferences of what participant is thinking/feeling
    * Example of interpretation: “Based on facial expressions, participant seems to be confused. Going back and forth between X and Y pages seems like they are looking for something.”
    * Example of interpretation: “Participant easily found link no frustration.”

## **Section 1: Warm up questions (max 10 min)**

**1.** What type of device are you using right now?
- Laptop
   
**2.** I know that you recently traveled to a VA facility for a medical appointment.  How did you get to your medical appointment (drive, public transit. etc)? 
- "Drove myself"... descibes car in great details
  -  If drove: did you have to take any tolls or have any parking fees?
    -  "No"
   
**4.** Do you think travel for a medical appointment is something that a Veteran can be reimbursed for? Do you think you could be reimbursed for it? What makes you say so?
- "Yes"
- "Yes, if I'm traveling many miles I shouldn't have to pay for services"
   
**5.** If you have submitted for travel pay in the past, how have you done so?
- "On the computer through eBenefits"
- "On occasion I'll file in person at the kisosk. It's simpler. Or even the paper form."
  - How often have you submitted for travel pay?
  - "I try to do it every time I go. About 3 or 4 ties in the past 6 months"
   
**6.** If you wanted to submit for reimbursement for traveling for your appointment, where would you expect to do that?
- "I try to do it in the kiosk or with one of the representatives that are there"
  - When it comes to your travel reimbursement claims, what would you expect to be able to do on VA.gov?
    - "TO submit my claim, upload it and get paid."
  - Do you think you could submit for travel reimbursement on VA.gov?
    - "Yes"


## **Section 3: UAT Tasks (30-40 min)**


### Start 

**Task 1A: Find the entry point to submission:** Now, you want to submit for reimbursement for the cost of your most recent trip for a VA medical visit.  From here, where would you expect to be able to do that?  Can you show me where you would expect to start this process.
- "I'd click, request travle reimburemsntnt. I'd expect it to take to the screen to file my claims. It took me to BSSS. I assume I could go to the dashboard and submit for my travel reimbsement"
- "If I couldn't do eBenefits or to this page I would call. "
- "I'd go to Contact Us to get help. I assume I'd send an email or chat"
- "I'd call them on the phone or say 'screw it'"
- Clicks contact us...
 - "I cannot submit for my most recent visit. I think I'd go to the FAQ"
 - Directed to MHV
   - "Down here it says file for a claim on BTSSS. It'll take me there"
   - "If I couldn't do that I'd call for help. I don't see anywhere else"
   - "I'd start a new message to the travel office from Messages"
   - "From managing upcoming appointemt I might be able to"
   - Clicks on upcoming appts
   - "I don't think I can submit from here"
   - "I see a details link. Maybe if I click on that I might see a travel remibusement here."
   - "If I clicked Details it would say location... might tell me what it is for"
   - "I'm not sure if I can submit fro my Mar 15th appt from here... oh wait... I see Past. Maybe from there"
   - Finds appt andclicks Details
   - "It might just say [appt type]"
   - Clicks detials
   - "Oh, I dodn't know about that there"
   - "Yes, I think I can submit from here"
   - "I'd click on the gree arrow link"
   - "If I click on it it will take me to the BTSSS system
 

**Task 2 Start submission** [on Past Appointments page]: Looking at this page, what, if anything do you think you could do here related to travel pay?
- Probe: what do you think would happen if you clicked that?
- CONFRIM CLAIM SCENARIO: [Do they understand that  they have already submitted?] 

 **IF COMPLEX CLAIM, SKIP TO 3A, OTHERWISE CONTINUE**


### Mileage Only

**Task 3 Capabilities comprehension**[on first submission screen]: Can you describe for me what you are looking at.  What do you think you can and cannot do from here? What are you looking at that makes you say so?
-	Probe: What would you expect to happen if you clicked that?
- OPTIONAL SKIP IF CONFIRM CLAIM SCENARIO

**Task 4 Submit SMOC** [first screen in qualifier questions]:  Ok, can you please go ahead and complete the submission.  [On each question screen ask:]
- Tell me what you are looking at
  - Talks through the question pages
 - "IF I didn't travel in my own vehicle ithat link would take me to a new page to ask who else I drove with."
 - "If I didn't travel from my home address I'd go to the BTSSS link"
 - Reads back confirmation page and throughly reads the confirmation
 - "Once I click file claim it will confirm and show me the milage to the facility"
 
- OPTIONAL SKIP IF CONFIRM CLAIM SCENARIO

 **Task 5 Confirm Submission**[submission confirmation page]: Can you describe for me what you are looking at. 
- "Okay... it shows me the claim submitted"
- "If I want to follow up I'd click on check status"
- "I'd think it would take tme to BTSSS"
- CLicks link
- "Oh, this is dirrent from BTSSS"
- "I see my claim. (read status)"
- Clicks details and reads back information
- "It shows where but I thought it would show more than that. I thought It might've showed from my residence to the facility"

 
###  Complex Claim

***If they click “Learn how to file claims for other expenses” on the first submission screen, go to Task 3a. If not, skip to Task 4a.***

**Task 3A Capabilities comprehension / Redirected to “VA Travel Reimbursement page”** [If they click “Learn how to file claims for other expenses” on first submission screen]: Can you describe for me what you are looking at.  What do you think you can and cannot do from here? What are you looking at that makes you say so?
- Probe: What would you expect to happen if you clicked that?
- "It says File a claim... (read page)"
- "I'd go straight to the green arrow link. BEcause it's a milae-only claim"
- "If I had tolls or parking fee... then I'd click on 'Learn how to file...' link. It would probably take me to BTSSS"

- 
 **Skip Task 4 and 5 if redirected before starting qualifying questions**

**Task 4a Redirect to BTSSS from qualifying questions**: [first screen in qualifier questions]:  Ok, can you please go ahead and complete the submission.  [On each question screen ask:]
- Tell me what you are looking at
- What can you do from here
- What do you expect to happen next

**Task 5a On BTSSS**: Can you describe for me what you are looking at.  
- Probe: What tells you that?
- What do you expect to happen next? 


## Section 4: Final thoughts and closing

**6.** How easy or difficult would you say this process was? What makes you say so?
- "It was easy but it was knida confusing. I never knew you could click on details. I was looking for a portal"
- "I didn't know you could get here (VA.gov) to submit. I assumed you need to go to BTSSS."
- "I didn't know you could get here (appts)."

**7.** What would you change about this process? What makes you say so?
- "Instead of having appt details Id' have a link to click here for reimbursement"
- "I've been to appts but neve thought of click on details"
  
**8.** What would you keep and why?
- "I'd keep everything else"

**9.** Do you have any other feedback about this process for submitting travel claims? Anything else you want to share that we have not covered?
- "No"
- 
