# **Participant 6, 3/20/2025 and 1pm ET**


## **Instructions**

We will be able to get ok transcripts from EnjoyHQ, so focus notes on observations, clearly defined interpretations, and impactful utterances.



* Focus on observations of user behavior.
    * Example of observation: “Participants clicks on My VA tab, hovers over X header, then back buttons to landing page.”
    * Example of observation: “Participant says ‘this is annoying, that makes no sense.’ when looking to login to BTSSS.”
* Be clear where notetaker is interpreting or making inferences of what participant is thinking/feeling
    * Example of interpretation: “Based on facial expressions, participant seems to be confused. Going back and forth between X and Y pages seems like they are looking for something.”
    * Example of interpretation: “Participant easily found link no frustration.”

## **Section 1: Warm up questions (max 10 min)**

**1.** What type of device are you using right now?

Notebook/PC - Laptop 
   
**2.** I know that you recently traveled to a VA facility for a medical appointment.  How did you get to your medical appointment (drive, public transit. etc)? 
  -  If drove: did you have to take any tolls or have any parking fees?
    - I drove myself, no parking fee/toll. 
   
**4.** Do you think travel for a medical appointment is something that a Veteran can be reimbursed for? Do you think you could be reimbursed for it? What makes you say so?
   - Yes
   - I know I can for some, but don't know the nuances. Nuances maybe - it should be service related medical appt. 
   
**5.** If you have submitted for travel pay in the past, how have you done so?
  - How often have you submitted for travel pay?
    - Have not submitted in the past.
   
**6.** If you wanted to submit for reimbursement for traveling for your appointment, where would you expect to do that?
  - When it comes to your travel reimbursement claims, what would you expect to be able to do on VA.gov?
  - Do you think you could submit for travel reimbursement on VA.gov?

       - VA.gov - MHV, I don't go on there often
       - I use VA app on my phone, but didn't see travel claim related.
       - VA.gov is global site, and MHV, also provide resources like PACT.
       - Put in milage to be reimbursed on VA.gov, yes, I can submit on VA.gov. 


## **Section 3: UAT Tasks (30-40 min)**


### Start 

**Task 1A: Find the entry point to submission:** Now, you want to submit for reimbursement for the cost of your most recent trip for a VA medical visit.  From here, where would you expect to be able to do that?  Can you show me where you would expect to start this process.
- What are you looking for?
  - Scroll on My VA.
  - Want to click "request travel reimbusement" under health care
  - Expect to see a form to fill out information
  - If not there, scroll up and down on My VA, "Hmmm" unsure
    - looking for word "travel" or "travel reimbursement" or "benefits"
  - Moderator asked to click on MHV
    - Looked at "Payments" card
    - Expect to only fill out Date and milage, but didn't click on anything
  - Moderator asked to click on Appointments
    - Go to past appts
- What do you see that makes you think that you can submit here?
  - "Hm, it would be nice to" (didn't say yes, but hope so)
  - "I wouldn't have looked here to do that, there's no indication"


**Task 2 Start submission** [on Past Appointments page]: Looking at this page, what, if anything do you think you could do here related to travel pay?
- Probe: what do you think would happen if you clicked that?
  - Instructions, clinician note
 
- CONFRIM CLAIM SCENARIO: [Do they understand that  they have already submitted?] 

 **IF COMPLEX CLAIM, SKIP TO 3A, OTHERWISE CONTINUE**


### Mileage Only

**Task 3 Capabilities comprehension**[on first submission screen]: Can you describe for me what you are looking at.  What do you think you can and cannot do from here? What are you looking at that makes you say so?
-	Probe: What would you expect to happen if you clicked that?
   - Noticed 2 file claim links on the appt details page
   - Not sure what would happen since all the appts information is already there
     - Either confirm, or how to get to the fund. 
  
- OPTIONAL SKIP IF CONFIRM CLAIM SCENARIO

**Task 4 Submit SMOC** [first screen in qualifier questions]:  Ok, can you please go ahead and complete the submission.  [On each question screen ask:]
- Tell me what you are looking at
  - Instructions (read quickly)
  - don't know what beneficiary claim is 
- What can you do from here
  - may a question - did I drive to take a public transit
  - Meals or hotel stay 
- What do you expect to happen next
  - "you live 6 miles from appt, I will send you a check"
- 1st page
  - yes - continue, confident about this question
- 2nd page
  - yes, read "if you didn't travel in own vehicle"
  - If you have a toll/taxi: pause and say "this would be where"
  - continue and expect - "congrats, check in the mail"
- 3rd page
  - yes
  - if no, he thought he'd go to the BTSSS portal
  - click the "if you didn't..." accordins, expect to enter a different address - this is what he expected
- Review page
  - read the agreement section line by line
  - understood and confirmed 
- OPTIONAL SKIP IF CONFIRM CLAIM SCENARIO

 **Task 5 Confirm Submission**[submission confirmation page]: Can you describe for me what you are looking at. 
- Probe: What tells you that?
- What do you expect to happen next? [KM7] [CF8]

  - "something went wrong" after submission
  - expect to go to another form (BTSSS) in another tab 

 
###  Complex Claim

***If they click “Learn how to file claims for other expenses” on the first submission screen, go to Task 3a. If not, skip to Task 4a.***

**Task 3A Capabilities comprehension / Redirected to “VA Travel Reimbursement page”** [If they click “Learn how to file claims for other expenses” on first submission screen]: Can you describe for me what you are looking at.  What do you think you can and cannot do from here? What are you looking at that makes you say so?
- Probe: What would you expect to happen if you clicked that?

 **Skip Task 4 and 5 if redirected before starting qualifying questions**

**Task 4a Redirect to BTSSS from qualifying questions**: [first screen in qualifier questions]:  Ok, can you please go ahead and complete the submission.  [On each question screen ask:]
- Tell me what you are looking at
- What can you do from here
- What do you expect to happen next

**Task 5a On BTSSS**: Can you describe for me what you are looking at.  
- Probe: What tells you that?
- What do you expect to happen next? 


## Section 4: Final thoughts and closing

**6.** How easy or difficult would you say this process was? What makes you say so? 
- Easy 

**7.** What would you change about this process? What makes you say so?
- "something went wrong" is vague, wants to know why so I know what I need to do.
- It's nice to see links on MHV home payments section.
- another way to get there - main menu > travel pay > read the menu/content list on the travel pay content page 

**8.** What would you keep and why?
- liked multiple places to access it

**9.** Do you have any other feedback about this process for submitting travel claims? Anything else you want to share that we have not covered?
- Straightforward
- Not sure he's able to get reimbursed from the recent appointment - after reading eligibility section
- Wonder if he needs to set up direct deposit again 
