# **Participant 21, 03/28/2025 and 1pm ET**


## **Instructions**

We will be able to get ok transcripts from EnjoyHQ, so focus notes on observations, clearly defined interpretations, and impactful utterances.



* Focus on observations of user behavior.
    * Example of observation: “Participants clicks on My VA tab, hovers over X header, then back buttons to landing page.”
    * Example of observation: “Participant says ‘this is annoying, that makes no sense.’ when looking to login to BTSSS.”
* Be clear where notetaker is interpreting or making inferences of what participant is thinking/feeling
    * Example of interpretation: “Based on facial expressions, participant seems to be confused. Going back and forth between X and Y pages seems like they are looking for something.”
    * Example of interpretation: “Participant easily found link no frustration.”

## **Section 1: Warm up questions (max 10 min)**

**1.** What type of device are you using right now?
   - Desktop
     
**2.** I know that you recently traveled to a VA facility for a medical appointment.  How did you get to your medical appointment (drive, public transit. etc)? 
  -  I drove, had tolls 
   
**4.** Do you think travel for a medical appointment is something that a Veteran can be reimbursed for? Do you think you could be reimbursed for it? What makes you say so?
   - Yes, I have done it in the past.
   
**5.** If you have submitted for travel pay in the past, how have you done so?
  - Paper form onsite, and through check-in flow on phone
  - 3 times in 6 months
   
**6.** If you wanted to submit for reimbursement for traveling for your appointment, where would you expect to do that?
   - Google search BTSS
  - When it comes to your travel reimbursement claims, what would you expect to be able to do on VA.gov?
    - expect to just be a couple clicks since they already have my information
  - Do you think you could submit for travel reimbursement on VA.gov?
    - No, it sent me to somewhere else - BTSS 


## **Section 3: UAT Tasks (30-40 min)**


### Start 

**Task 1A: Find the entry point to submission:** Now, you want to submit for reimbursement for the cost of your most recent trip for a VA medical visit.  From here, where would you expect to be able to do that?  Can you show me where you would expect to start this process.
   - "Get travel pay reimbursement" link on VA.gov home page > clicked "go to BTSSS to file" on the content page (he's similar with that)
   - On BTSSS - expect to put milage 
- What are you looking for?
  - Instructed to go back to the content page - not sure where else to go
  - Clicked on "check your travel claim status" - expected to bring back to BTSSS
    - Didn't think he could submit from check status page
    - Clicked on details - expected to see more details - mileage and when was paid
    - Then, he searched "travel pay" and clicked on the first link on search page - back to the content page
    - Then he scrolled all the way down"How to file" link at the bottom of the content page - expected to bring back to the BTSSS
    - M prompted P to go to MHV
      - Scroll down to Payments card - wanted to click on "file a claim..." link
    - M prompted P to go to Appointments
      - P didn't think he could submit from Appointments
      - Clicked on past details > clicked on file link
- What do you see that makes you think that you can submit here?
 

**Task 2 Start submission** [on Past Appointments page]: Looking at this page, what, if anything do you think you could do here related to travel pay?
- Probe: what do you think would happen if you clicked that?
- CONFRIM CLAIM SCENARIO: [Do they understand that  they have already submitted?]


 **IF COMPLEX CLAIM, SKIP TO 3A, OTHERWISE CONTINUE**


### Mileage Only

**Task 3 Capabilities comprehension**[on first submission screen]: Can you describe for me what you are looking at.  What do you think you can and cannot do from here? What are you looking at that makes you say so?
-	Probe: What would you expect to happen if you clicked that?
- OPTIONAL SKIP IF CONFIRM CLAIM SCENARIO

  - Don't understand why it says "mileage only"
  - Expect to be able to submit mileage and tolls
    - should populate mileage and home address
  - Click file mileage link
    - Answered no to the first question
    - Expected to go back to BTSSS
  - Redirected to AccessVA - thought to go to dashboard and should be able to submit there 

**Task 4 Submit SMOC** [first screen in qualifier questions]:  Ok, can you please go ahead and complete the submission.  [On each question screen ask:]
- Tell me what you are looking at
- What can you do from here
- What do you expect to happen next
- OPTIONAL SKIP IF CONFIRM CLAIM SCENARIO

 **Task 5 Confirm Submission**[submission confirmation page]: Can you describe for me what you are looking at. 
- Probe: What tells you that?
- What do you expect to happen next? [KM7] [CF8] 

 
###  Complex Claim

***If they click “Learn how to file claims for other expenses” on the first submission screen, go to Task 3a. If not, skip to Task 4a.***

**Task 3A Capabilities comprehension / Redirected to “VA Travel Reimbursement page”** [If they click “Learn how to file claims for other expenses” on first submission screen]: Can you describe for me what you are looking at.  What do you think you can and cannot do from here? What are you looking at that makes you say so?
- Probe: What would you expect to happen if you clicked that?

 **Skip Task 4 and 5 if redirected before starting qualifying questions**

**Task 4a Redirect to BTSSS from qualifying questions**: [first screen in qualifier questions]:  Ok, can you please go ahead and complete the submission.  [On each question screen ask:]
- Tell me what you are looking at
- What can you do from here
- What do you expect to happen next

**Task 5a On BTSSS**: Can you describe for me what you are looking at.  
- Probe: What tells you that?
- What do you expect to happen next? 


## Section 4: Final thoughts and closing

**6.** How easy or difficult would you say this process was? What makes you say so?
Not difficult, but it should be more streamlined. 

**7.** What would you change about this process? What makes you say so?
Expect to do it on the phone and complete with check-in 

**8.** What would you keep and why?

**9.** Do you have any other feedback about this process for submitting travel claims? Anything else you want to share that we have not covered?

Notes: P doesn't have SMOC, there's always a toll from home to the VA medical center. 
