# **Participant 20, 03/28/2025 10am ET**


## **Instructions**

We will be able to get ok transcripts from EnjoyHQ, so focus notes on observations, clearly defined interpretations, and impactful utterances.



* Focus on observations of user behavior.
    * Example of observation: “Participants clicks on My VA tab, hovers over X header, then back buttons to landing page.”
    * Example of observation: “Participant says ‘this is annoying, that makes no sense.’ when looking to login to BTSSS.”
* Be clear where notetaker is interpreting or making inferences of what participant is thinking/feeling
    * Example of interpretation: “Based on facial expressions, participant seems to be confused. Going back and forth between X and Y pages seems like they are looking for something.”
    * Example of interpretation: “Participant easily found link no frustration.”

## **Section 1: Warm up questions (max 10 min)**

**1.** What type of device are you using right now?
- "Windows desktop"
   
**2.** I know that you recently traveled to a VA facility for a medical appointment.  How did you get to your medical appointment (drive, public transit. etc)? 
  - "I drove"
  -  If drove: did you have to take any tolls or have any parking fees?
    -  "No. I drove myself"
   
**4.** Do you think travel for a medical appointment is something that a Veteran can be reimbursed for? Do you think you could be reimbursed for it? What makes you say so?
   - "Yes. We were told that."
   - "I don't think I could be reimbursed because I too close."
   - "I have not submitted for TP"
     "I don't know where I'd submit. Probably the reception of the VA facility"
     
**5.** If you have submitted for travel pay in the past, how have you done so?
  - How often have you submitted for travel pay?
   
**6.** If you wanted to submit for reimbursement for traveling for your appointment, where would you expect to do that?
  - When it comes to your travel reimbursement claims, what would you expect to be able to do on VA.gov?
  - "I'd want to see the status of the claim"
  - Do you think you could submit for travel reimbursement on VA.gov?
  - "I dont' know"


## **Section 3: UAT Tasks (30-40 min)**


### Start 

**Task 1A: Find the entry point to submission:** Now, you want to submit for reimbursement for the cost of your most recent trip for a VA medical visit.  From here, where would you expect to be able to do that?  Can you show me where you would expect to start this process.
- "Mangae all claims and appeals. Probably do a new claim"
- Clicks link
- "No, I can't do it from here"
- "If I couldn't find it I'd click on 'What if I can't find my claim...'
- "Then I'd call for help"
- "I'd go to tadditional services and click for 'Get help filing a claim (article)"
- "On the websit e I'd be lost"
- "If you weren't here I'd call or I'd call my VSO"

**Task 2 Start submission** [on Past Appointments page]: Looking at this page, what, if anything do you think you could do here related to travel pay?
- Probe: what do you think would happen if you clicked that?
- CONFRIM CLAIM SCENARIO: [Do they understand that  they have already submitted?] 

 **IF COMPLEX CLAIM, SKIP TO 3A, OTHERWISE CONTINUE**


### Mileage Only

**Task 3 Capabilities comprehension**[on first submission screen]: Can you describe for me what you are looking at.  What do you think you can and cannot do from here? What are you looking at that makes you say so?
- Descipbes on what is on MHV
- "Oh, file a claim for remiburement"
- Goes to BTSSS
- "I see the Veterans portal. Hopefully I can file a travel claim"
- "If I couldn't go there I'd probarly got to messages and hopefully find a notification that I could relate to"
- "There is nothing here. Maybe I'd go back to VA Benefits and Health Care"
- Pormpted to click on Appts
- "From here I'd click on Past to see if there is anything from the past there months"
- "I'd click the details and I see file a travel..."
- "I beter see to file a travle reimbusement"


**Task 4 Submit SMOC** [first screen in qualifier questions]:  Ok, can you please go ahead and complete the submission.  [On each question screen ask:]
- "From here I can file a claim"
- "I assume it would just if I could it would ask me yes or no"
- Descibes the steps...
- Without prompting he clicked on "How do we caculate milage" Went to the article and clciked the link that took him to BTSSS =(
- Was prompted to go back to the tab
- Continued through other questions
- Read through review page
- "After I clicked file a clima it would verify all my infor again. Then it would tell me how long and wher to check my status"
- "I assume a claim to the VA is disability or travel. They diffentiate between the two."
- 

 **Task 5 Confirm Submission**[submission confirmation page]: Can you describe for me what you are looking at. 
- "It's submitting the claim"
- Approved
- Went to the status page.
- "I hope to see enough money here to buy pizza tonight"
- "So either it will be in my account or they will send me a check"
-  


## Section 4: Final thoughts and closing

**6.** How easy or difficult would you say this process was? What makes you say so?
- "I don't think it was that easy"

**7.** What would you change about this process? What makes you say so?
- "I would've had how to do it with a link on the opening page (MVA)"
- "You gotta KISS (Keep it simple stupid)"
- "I'd add it to the that nav (MHV nav)"
- "I don't want to drill down (points to breadcrumbs)"

**8.** What would you keep and why?
- Didn't have things he would keep. Talk more about findability
  - "The main heading would be Travel Claims. Under that would be file, status, etc..."
- "It was fast"

**9.** Do you have any other feedback about this process for submitting travel claims? Anything else you want to share that we have not covered?
- Wants to know more about the direct depost options. "Will I get a check or direct deposit"
- He want so decide on how he gets the money
- "How do I know how I'm going to get paid"
- "I'm assuming if I don't have direct deposit they will send a check"
- "I have DD for disability so I asusmme i'm set up for Travel"
- Seems to think that there isn't a diffence between the two direct depostis
- "You shouldn't have it to show me if I don't have to set it up"
- "The left hand for disability and the right hand for travel pay don't communicate?"
