# **Participant 7, 03/21 and 10am ET**


## **Instructions**

We will be able to get ok transcripts from EnjoyHQ, so focus notes on observations, clearly defined interpretations, and impactful utterances.



* Focus on observations of user behavior.
    * Example of observation: “Participants clicks on My VA tab, hovers over X header, then back buttons to landing page.”
    * Example of observation: “Participant says ‘this is annoying, that makes no sense.’ when looking to login to BTSSS.”
* Be clear where notetaker is interpreting or making inferences of what participant is thinking/feeling
    * Example of interpretation: “Based on facial expressions, participant seems to be confused. Going back and forth between X and Y pages seems like they are looking for something.”
    * Example of interpretation: “Participant easily found link no frustration.”

## **Section 1: Warm up questions (max 10 min)**

**1.** What type of device are you using right now?
   Laptop
   
**2.** I know that you recently traveled to a VA facility for a medical appointment.  How did you get to your medical appointment (drive, public transit. etc)? 
  -  If drove: did you have to take any tolls or have any parking fees?
Drove myself, no tolls/parking fees
   
**4.** Do you think travel for a medical appointment is something that a Veteran can be reimbursed for? Do you think you could be reimbursed for it? What makes you say so?
- If distance is far enough, then yes. It takes me 20 miles. 
- I suppose I can as well. 
- There's eligibility criteria - disabled and distant to the facility. If there's certain distant, they should be eligible. 
   
**5.** If you have submitted for travel pay in the past, how have you done so?
  - How often have you submitted for travel pay?

   - No. I never thought of seeking reimbursement. 
   
**6.** If you wanted to submit for reimbursement for traveling for your appointment, where would you expect to do that?
I'll start with travel reimbursement office.
If it's closed, I call or on the website - myhealthevet.gov
  - When it comes to your travel reimbursement claims, what would you expect to be able to do on VA.gov?
      - online form to fill out
  - Do you think you could submit for travel reimbursement on VA.gov?
    - I can try, but doubtful due to short distance


## **Section 3: UAT Tasks (30-40 min)**


### Start 

**Task 1A: Find the entry point to submission:** Now, you want to submit for reimbursement for the cost of your most recent trip for a VA medical visit.  From here, where would you expect to be able to do that?  Can you show me where you would expect to start this process.
- What are you looking for?
- What do you see that makes you think that you can submit here?

  - start from here, and look for anything that says travel reimbursement - "Main menu"
  - on the content page - I assume I click on "BTSSS file" link to fill out some type of form
  - (alernative way) looking for "criteria" on the content page - scrolled down to FAQ section - check where else to submit a claim
  - (asked to go to MHV) "file a claim" a link on MHV home page - if that link doesn't work, then I will probably give up
  - Past appt > details - what it was for and what time
  - Expect "same place we were before" - file claim link on details page
 

**Task 2 Start submission** [on Past Appointments page]: Looking at this page, what, if anything do you think you could do here related to travel pay?
- Probe: what do you think would happen if you clicked that?
- CONFRIM CLAIM SCENARIO: [Do they understand that  they have already submitted?] 

  - Quickly glanced at intruction page - "I can file milage claim"
  - address page - it's wrong, it hasnn't been for years.
    - I guess I'd figure out who to call and check else where
    - I'd have to fill out another form, I couldn't continue with the form, then proceed to find address information under VA profile
       - Update home address
       - then back to MHV home > past > details > file link > recheck
    - address updated, then proceed with the form
    - read through review page
    - submitting loading - something went wrong
    - "I will probably just give up, and talk to someone in-person when I go next time."
    - BTSSS - "sending me back to the same place, I can feel it."
    - "probably not because of the distance (short)" - when asked if he thinks he's eligible
 

 **IF COMPLEX CLAIM, SKIP TO 3A, OTHERWISE CONTINUE**


### Mileage Only

**Task 3 Capabilities comprehension**[on first submission screen]: Can you describe for me what you are looking at.  What do you think you can and cannot do from here? What are you looking at that makes you say so?
-	Probe: What would you expect to happen if you clicked that?
- OPTIONAL SKIP IF CONFIRM CLAIM SCENARIO

**Task 4 Submit SMOC** [first screen in qualifier questions]:  Ok, can you please go ahead and complete the submission.  [On each question screen ask:]
- Tell me what you are looking at
- What can you do from here
- What do you expect to happen next
- OPTIONAL SKIP IF CONFIRM CLAIM SCENARIO

 **Task 5 Confirm Submission**[submission confirmation page]: Can you describe for me what you are looking at. 
- Probe: What tells you that?
- What do you expect to happen next? [KM7] [CF8] 

 
###  Complex Claim

***If they click “Learn how to file claims for other expenses” on the first submission screen, go to Task 3a. If not, skip to Task 4a.***

**Task 3A Capabilities comprehension / Redirected to “VA Travel Reimbursement page”** [If they click “Learn how to file claims for other expenses” on first submission screen]: Can you describe for me what you are looking at.  What do you think you can and cannot do from here? What are you looking at that makes you say so?
- Probe: What would you expect to happen if you clicked that?

 **Skip Task 4 and 5 if redirected before starting qualifying questions**

**Task 4a Redirect to BTSSS from qualifying questions**: [first screen in qualifier questions]:  Ok, can you please go ahead and complete the submission.  [On each question screen ask:]
- Tell me what you are looking at
- What can you do from here
- What do you expect to happen next

**Task 5a On BTSSS**: Can you describe for me what you are looking at.  
- Probe: What tells you that?
- What do you expect to happen next? 


## Section 4: Final thoughts and closing

**6.** How easy or difficult would you say this process was? What makes you say so?
Easy, unless "something went wrong" 

**7.** What would you change about this process? What makes you say so?
More information up front. No one (24 years) told me about travel reimbursement. 
It's nice to see the file link in past appointment, now that i know it's there.

**8.** What would you keep and why?
Make it for everyone to get reimbursed, and no rabbit hole

**9.** Do you have any other feedback about this process for submitting travel claims? Anything else you want to share that we have not covered?
No. "Something went wrong" - general functionality, not related to this. 


Try with another recent appointment 
- 0.5 mile away from me
- quick and easy to go through the form
- claim submitted successfully
- he checked the status, and made sure it's submitted
- If I try to submit again, the system should be smart to tell me I already done that - go to appt deails page, I guess I will have to wait for someone to contact me since it doesn't say what's missing
- expect to correct in claim status page
- "in manual review" - it's in someone's email now, and wait until when they get to it. 
