# **Participant #, Date and time**


## **Instructions**

We will be able to get ok transcripts from EnjoyHQ, so focus notes on observations, clearly defined interpretations, and impactful utterances.



* Focus on observations of user behavior.
    * Example of observation: “Participants clicks on My VA tab, hovers over X header, then back buttons to landing page.”
    * Example of observation: “Participant says ‘this is annoying, that makes no sense.’ when looking to login to BTSSS.”
* Be clear where notetaker is interpreting or making inferences of what participant is thinking/feeling
    * Example of interpretation: “Based on facial expressions, participant seems to be confused. Going back and forth between X and Y pages seems like they are looking for something.”
    * Example of interpretation: “Participant easily found link no frustration.”

## **Section 1: Warm up questions (max 10 min)**

**1.** What type of device are you using right now?
   Dell Notebook computer laptop
**2.** I know that you recently traveled to a VA facility for a medical appointment.  How did you get to your medical appointment (drive, public transit. etc)? 
  - By car
  -  If drove: did you have to take any tolls or have any parking fees?
  - For Va facilities not tolls or fees
   
**4.** Do you think travel for a medical appointment is something that a Veteran can be reimbursed for? Do you think you could be reimbursed for it? What makes you say so?
- Yes, I do.
- It's kind of a one and done. If someone lives 10 moes away or 100 miles away, they should be reimbured Distance is a qualifier as well as a time issue (traffic, geography). It's very different expectaion between differnt cities, say (small citey) vs (large city)
   
**5.** If you have submitted for travel pay in the past, how have you done so?
  - How often have you submitted for travel pay?
  - I have not asked for reimbursement in the past. They have a Travel desk but I don't want to fill out the paperwork. Wehn I go up to the desk there is 6-10 people in front of me and I don't want to add more time to my already lengthy visit.
  - I can't remember theyre being an electronic method.
  - I'm not that far away and what are they going to do, give me 5 bucks?
  - After hearing abou thte electroinc submission it felt more attainable and made me curious
  - My use of the VA has incresed recently and I have submitted for Travel reimbursement
   
**6.** If you wanted to submit for reimbursement for traveling for your appointment, where would you expect to do that?
    - Two places, the manual visit the facility and it seems like I might be able to do it hear with VA.gov
  - When it comes to your travel reimbursement claims, what would you expect to be able to do on VA.gov?
    - I'd expect that I wuld be able to fill out a claim form and cooridinated with sufficiant help in navigating the system
  - Do you think you could submit for travel reimbursement on VA.gov?
    - It's not real clear that you can do that
    - Because I signed up to recieve text I've found that parts of the reimbursement system works easier if you use all the tools like the text message for appointments. It became a bit much communication and I began to ignore them. I decided on one time to say "yes" to the checkin it allowed me to file for reimbursement. All that front loading paperwork hand been accomplished.
    - 


## **Section 3: UAT Tasks (30-40 min)**


### Start 

**Task 1A: Find the entry point to submission:** Now, you want to submit for reimbursement for the cost of your most recent trip for a VA medical visit.  From here, where would you expect to be able to do that?  Can you show me where you would expect to start this process.
- User scrolls through and clicks "Request travel reimbursement" and is redirected to BTSSS
- If you couldn't submit could you submit elsehwre?
  - No, I got an email that sent me this link to BTSSS
- Directed to MHV and Manage upcoming
  - I would not expect to file for reimbusement here on the upcomming appointement list
  - Propmted to go to Past appointments list
  - I don't think I can from the list
  - "If I look at the details of the appointment I see I can do it here. With a little bit of education I'd imagine I'd be able to know to file here"
  - "this is what I see an awful lot of" - (re fiscal rescinded status)
  - "I won't be able to know if I've filed for TP unless I go through each appointment one by one"
  - User is quick to find where the link should be
- 
- I filed through these through the electronic system via my phone (assuming checkin but could be BTSSS portal as he's referring to both)
 

Usere didn't have any appointemts that he didn't already file for.


## Section 4: Final thoughts and closing

**6.** How easy or difficult would you say this process was? What makes you say so?
- "It took a while to find it but one I did it was easy"

**7.** What would you change about this process? What makes you say so?
- "Had a hard time navigating and interacting with the BTSSS portal on different screen sizes"
- "I don't know that I'm real good on reading insturctions"

**8.** What would you keep and why?
- "I'd keep the whole process because it's only 2 or 3 steps"
- "With a little up front information it's a really simple process"

**9.** Do you have any other feedback about this process for submitting travel claims? Anything else you want to share that we have not covered?
- "One can feel overwhelmed by technology."
