# Participant 1 #
## Warm-up Questions - 5 minutes ##
_Participant answers in bold._

- For pre-COVID participants. Can you tell me about the last time that you saw your primary care provider at the VA?
    - What was the experience prior to the appointment like? For example, did you have to fill out any forms before the appointment? Did the nurse ask you a lot of questions?
- For post-COVID participants. Think about your last primary care provider visit at the VA. Did your appointment experience change at all post-COVID?
    - **I did not have to go to an in-person appointment since COVID. I’ve done two virtual appointments. It was a very smooth process.**   
      - If so, how?
      - Did the length of your appointment feel any different (shorter or longer)?
      - What was the experience prior to the appointment like? For example, did you have to fill out any forms before the appointment? Did the nurse ask you a lot of questions?
      - **No I didn’t. The VA contacted me to say that the appointment was set-up.**

## Usability Task: Complete the questionnaire - 10 minutes ##
Keep that pre-appointment experience in mind as I tell you about our first exercise. I will give you a task and ask you to "narrate" your thoughts as you complete the task.<br/>
I'm going to send you a link in the chat.<br/>
[Mobile Prototype](https://preview.uxpin.com/a15205c1bedcdfc8fe46fed26c22fa731cab8ae0#/pages//simulate/no-panels?mode=cvhidm)<br/>
[Desktop Prototype](https://preview.uxpin.com/e9e0dc597bb076e74db05f77d35306496a89fca2#/pages//simulate/no-panels?mode=cvhidm)<br/>

Task: Pretend that you (your name in the prototype will be Hector Allen) just scheduled your annual physical exam with your primary care provider. To allow your care team to better meet your needs at the appointment, they are requesting you fill out a previsit questionnaire. Complete this questionnaire.<br/>
_Guide the user to fill in no more than two questions on the Prepare for Your Appointment page. Only give additional direction if the Veteran gets stuck completing the task._
- **I’d click on the “answer questions” button. It’s easy to do and clear. The instructions in particular are clear. I don’t have any additional questions, and everything looks good. I would keep clicking continue all the way through. At the end I would click “submit questionnaire”**

## Reviewing Screens in More Detail - 25 minutes (total for all pages) ##
Great, thank you for doing that exercise. Next, we are going to go back to the beginning of the questionnaire, so I can ask more questions about each page.<br/>
_Help them navigate back to the introduction page by clicking the header of the confirmation page._
- **The first page is clear, and I wouldn’t expect there to be more information on the page.**

### On the Introduction page - 10 minutes ###
- _Ask if the Veteran didn't review the entire page during the Usability Task._ I saw that you immediately clicked the sign in button during the first activity. Take some time now and review the rest of the page.
- What are your impressions of this page?
- Review the "How will my personal health information be protected and shared if I use this questionnaire?" question.
  - What are your thoughts about the information provided?
  - Is it what you were expecting or not expecting?
- Review the steps information. (Explain if necessary where the steps are.)
  - What are your thoughts about the information provided?
- In what order would you display the emergency, sharing, and steps information?
- Is there any other information we should include here?

### On the Veteran Information page - 2 minutes ###
- Do you feel that VA.gov typically has the correct demographic information for you?
  - **Yes**
- Do you find yourself updating contact information at primary care visits often?
  - **No. I’d like there to be a profile section where I can go to edit personal information.**

### On the This Visit page - 7 minutes ###
_Tell the Veteran before asking questions on this page._ This is the first version of these questions. We plan to expand this form, so you could review your mediations, allergies, medical conditions, and more prior to an appointment.<br/>
- What are your impressions of this page?
  - **It all looks good to me.**
- Do you see value or no value in sharing this information with your primary care provider?
  - **Yes, I think providing this type of info is valuable.**
- How would you expect your doctor or primary care provider to use this information?
  - **I’m not sure how they’ll use it, but it’d definitely be helpful to have.**
- Do you feel the in-person part of your appointment with the doctor/nurse will be different after providing this information ahead of time?
  - **The online meetings can still be a little weird.** 
- _If they didn't edit the "additional details" field,_ why didn't you edit the additional details question?
  - **I just didn’t have additional details, but being able to do it is helpful.**
- _If not explicitly mentioned,_ if you have a lot of questions for your visit, do you think ranking the questions here would help get your most important questions answered first?
  - **I hadn’t thought about it, but it seems like a good idea.** 
- Should your questionnaire answers automatically appear in your next upcoming appointment questionnaire as a reminder of what you wanted to discuss/discussed with your provider, then you can make edits? Do you think the information that you enter for these questions will differ drastically each time, so it isn't worth transferring that information to the new questionnaire?
  - **Yes, I think it’s a good reminder.** 

### On the Review page - 2 minutes (Optional) ###
- What are your impressions of this page?
  - **Standard information.** 

### On the Confirmation page - 4 minutes ###
- What are your impressions of this page?
  - **It’s straightforward.**
- Once you submit this questionnaire, who do you expect will have access to the answers that you entered? - Is it what you were expecting or not expecting?
- Is there any other information we should include here?
  - **I don’t think so. I’ve never brought anything to an appointment. Everything I’ve needed has been part of my profile with the VA. It’s helpful to have the direct line to the clinic for questions. That gives me a clerical person to talk to.** 
- Where would you like to navigate to next after completing this form? (You can select more than one or none of the following options.)
  - A list of your upcoming appointments
  - **A list of other questionnaires that you need to complete**
  - VA.gov home page
  - Other:

## Follow-up Questions - 5 minutes ##
- Where on va.gov would you expect all of your healthcare questionnaires to live?
  - Within a "Manage your healthcare benefits" section
  - Within a "More healthcare resources" section
  - Within a "VA healthcare appointments" section
  - On the va.gov homepage
  - **Other: MyHealthyVet**
- When would you fill out this questionnaire?
  - The day before my appointment
  - **2-3 days before my appointment**
  - A week before my appointment
  - 2-3 weeks before my appointment
  - A month before my appointment
  - Other:
- How would you have liked to receive a notification that you had this questionnaire to complete? (You can select more than one or none of the following options.)
  - **text message**
  - **email**
  - just visiting VA.gov and seeing it on the website.
  - Other:
- Are there any topics or questions you'd like to see that weren't included in today's exercise?
- Do you have any questions for me?
