## Warm-up Questions - 5 minutes ##
_Participant answers in bold._

- For pre-COVID participants. Can you tell me about the last time that you saw your primary care provider at the VA?
    - What was the experience prior to the appointment like? For example, did you have to fill out any forms before the appointment? Did the nurse ask you a lot of questions?
- For post-COVID participants. Think about your last primary care provider visit at the VA. Did your appointment experience change at all post-COVID?
    - **I have 2 appointments every month. I have one for a counselor and one for a nutritionist. They’re back to back and last an hour each. Most are done on my laptop.**   
      - If so, how?
      - Did the length of your appointment feel any different (shorter or longer)?
      - What was the experience prior to the appointment like? For example, did you have to fill out any forms before the appointment? Did the nurse ask you a lot of questions?
      - **Sometimes they’ve called me and asked questions regarding COVID, but no filing paperwork.**

## Usability Task: Complete the questionnaire - 10 minutes ##
Keep that pre-appointment experience in mind as I tell you about our first exercise. I will give you a task and ask you to "narrate" your thoughts as you complete the task.<br/>
I'm going to send you a link in the chat.<br/>
[Mobile Prototype](https://preview.uxpin.com/a15205c1bedcdfc8fe46fed26c22fa731cab8ae0#/pages//simulate/no-panels?mode=cvhidm)<br/>
[Desktop Prototype](https://preview.uxpin.com/e9e0dc597bb076e74db05f77d35306496a89fca2#/pages//simulate/no-panels?mode=cvhidm)<br/>

Task: Pretend that you (your name in the prototype will be Hector Allen) just scheduled your annual physical exam with your primary care provider. To allow your care team to better meet your needs at the appointment, they are requesting you fill out a previsit questionnaire. Complete this questionnaire.<br/>
_Guide the user to fill in no more than two questions on the Prepare for Your Appointment page. Only give additional direction if the Veteran gets stuck completing the task._
- **I’d go through and make sure all of the information is correct first, then click continue. In the section for asking a question, I’d just type in “when can we go back to in person?”**<br/> 
- _added a second question using add question button_ **From here I would click continue because I’ve added my questions.** _continued through to end_

## Reviewing Screens in More Detail - 25 minutes (total for all pages) ##
Great, thank you for doing that exercise. Next, we are going to go back to the beginning of the questionnaire, so I can ask more questions about each page.<br/>
_Help them navigate back to the introduction page by clicking the header of the confirmation page._
- **The first page is clear, and I wouldn’t expect there to be more information on the page.**

### On the Introduction page - 10 minutes ###
- _Ask if the Veteran didn't review the entire page during the Usability Task._ I saw that you immediately clicked the sign in button during the first activity. Take some time now and review the rest of the page.
- What are your impressions of this page?
  _ **It looks pretty standard, it looks good. It’s self-explanatory.**
- Review the "How will my personal health information be protected and shared if I use this questionnaire?" question.
  - What are your thoughts about the information provided?
  - Is it what you were expecting or not expecting?
    - **I’d expect it to be that way because I know there are guidelines to how information can be handled and stored. The questionnaire being added to my medical record makes sense – everything you do at the VA seems to get added to your medical record.**
    - **I think that too often people don’t know how to access what is written in the records. I know there’s a way you can download records online, but maybe there should be:**
      - An explanation of HOW to review your record 
      - A way to add/edit things to your record (on your own)
- Review the steps information. (Explain if necessary where the steps are.)
  - What are your thoughts about the information provided?
- In what order would you display the emergency, sharing, and steps information?
- Is there any other information we should include here?

### On the Veteran Information page - 2 minutes ###
- Do you feel that VA.gov typically has the correct demographic information for you?
  - **Yes, pretty much. It seems to always be updated, but I think that is because I use MyHealthyVet. There are a few things you can’t change, but most of those make sense. You should be able to update your address! Sometimes it takes too long to do it through the VA, it’d be easier to just do it yourself. That’s very important for medicine – to make sure prescriptions are delivered to the correct address. It would be helpful if there were a link on this page that would take me to where I can update my address.**
  - **Another thing: It would be nice to be able to enter a preferred name for the VA. My name is Charles, but I go by Chuck.**
- Do you find yourself updating contact information at primary care visits often?

### On the This Visit page - 7 minutes ###
_Tell the Veteran before asking questions on this page._ This is the first version of these questions. We plan to expand this form, so you could review your mediations, allergies, medical conditions, and more prior to an appointment.<br/>
- What are your impressions of this page?
  - **This page looks good.** 
  - **Importing a picture could be helpful for doctors. It could speed up the process or act as a replacement for video calls if there are tech issues.** 
- Do you see value or no value in sharing this information with your primary care provider?
  - **The more info you give the better. In fact, there could be some follow-up questions to be more specific. Natural language processing could be used to determine appropriate follow on questions. “Pain in the right knee” could be followed by asking if the pain is sharp, blunt, stabbing, etc. If I elaborate on the pain in my knee, then they will have a better idea of the issue/treatment. Removing the initial visit with a nurse before visiting a doctor makes it hard to provide as much detail to the doctor as the nurse would. These follow-up questions would act as a replacement of that process. If that can’t be done, then it would be better to have the actual nurse come on the call before the doctor.**
- How would you expect your doctor or primary care provider to use this information?
- Do you feel the in-person part of your appointment with the doctor/nurse will be different after providing this information ahead of time?
- _If they didn't edit the "additional details" field,_ why didn't you edit the additional details question?
- _If not explicitly mentioned,_ if you have a lot of questions for your visit, do you think ranking the questions here would help get your most important questions answered first?
  - **Yes, because I may ask 15 questions and if the 15th is the most important then we may not get to it when we need to.**
- Should your questionnaire answers automatically appear in your next upcoming appointment questionnaire as a reminder of what you wanted to discuss/discussed with your provider, then you can make edits? Do you think the information that you enter for these questions will differ drastically each time, so it isn't worth transferring that information to the new questionnaire?
  - **If it is a follow-up appointment, then YES.**

### On the Review page - 2 minutes (Optional) ###
- What are your impressions of this page?

### On the Confirmation page - 4 minutes ###
- What are your impressions of this page?
  - **It’s standard, looks like a cookie cutter page for the VA.**
- Once you submit this questionnaire, who do you expect will have access to the answers that you entered? - Is it what you were expecting or not expecting?
  - **My primary care nurse and doctor.**
- Is there any other information we should include here?
  - **I’d like to know who this is going to – so including the name of my nurse / doctor would be helpful for security reasons. That should update as the nurses and doctors change, because that happens. 
You already have info on a previous page of how to prepare for an appointment, but I don’t remember seeing any contact info to reach out to for clarification. That would be helpful to have.**
- Where would you like to navigate to next after completing this form? (You can select more than one or none of the following options.)
  - **A list of your upcoming appointments**
  - **A list of other questionnaires that you need to complete**
  - VA.gov home page
  - Other:

## Follow-up Questions - 5 minutes ##
- Where on va.gov would you expect all of your healthcare questionnaires to live?
  - **The VA has so many different areas that vets have to go to. Consolidating and simplifying the process would be best because there are too many webpages.** 
  - Within a "Manage your healthcare benefits" section
  - Within a "More healthcare resources" section
  - Within a "VA healthcare appointments" section
  - On the va.gov homepage
  - **Other: MyHealthyVet**
- When would you fill out this questionnaire?
  - The day before my appointment
  - 2-3 days before my appointment**
  - A week before my appointment
  - 2-3 weeks before my appointment
  - A month before my appointment
    - **that’s too far in advance**
  - Other: **If there are routine appointments, then this questionnaire should be sent out halfway through the difference between appointments (for example: appointments every 6 months should receive this questionnaire 3 months in advance) AND a week before the appointment. That will allow someone to adjust their appointment as needed. Immediate concerns can be addressed before the next 6-month appointment.**
- How would you have liked to receive a notification that you had this questionnaire to complete? (You can select more than one or none of the following options.)
  - **text message**
  - **email**
  - just visiting VA.gov and seeing it on the website.
  - Other:
- Are there any topics or questions you'd like to see that weren't included in today's exercise?
  - **It’d be nice to include the link to the appointment once you complete the process to schedule it.**
- Do you have any questions for me?
  - **Mostly everything that is relevant should go in there, but a veteran should be able to go in and see what the doctor added.**
