# Participant 6 #
## Warm-up Questions - 5 minutes ##
_Participant answers in bold._

- For pre-COVID participants. Can you tell me about the last time that you saw your primary care provider at the VA?
    - What was the experience prior to the appointment like? For example, did you have to fill out any forms before the appointment? Did the nurse ask you a lot of questions?
- For post-COVID participants. Think about your last primary care provider visit at the VA. Did your appointment experience change at all post-COVID?
  - **It was okay, it is a little tough if your appointment is about something that you have to see. The appointment took longer to get started than it should have by about 20 minutes – that seems to happen in person too though.**
    - If so, how?
    - Did the length of your appointment feel any different (shorter or longer)?
    - What was the experience prior to the appointment like? For example, did you have to fill out any forms before the appointment? Did the nurse ask you a lot of questions?
    - **My wife did a virtual appointment and it seemed like she had to do about the same or a little less than you usually would in person.**
    
## Usability Task: Complete the questionnaire - 10 minutes ##
Keep that pre-appointment experience in mind as I tell you about our first exercise. I will give you a task and ask you to "narrate" your thoughts as you complete the task.<br/>
I'm going to send you a link in the chat.<br/>
[Mobile Prototype](https://preview.uxpin.com/a15205c1bedcdfc8fe46fed26c22fa731cab8ae0#/pages//simulate/no-panels?mode=cvhidm)<br/>
[Desktop Prototype](https://preview.uxpin.com/e9e0dc597bb076e74db05f77d35306496a89fca2#/pages//simulate/no-panels?mode=cvhidm)<br/>

Task: Pretend that you (your name in the prototype will be Hector Allen) just scheduled your annual physical exam with your primary care provider. To allow your care team to better meet your needs at the appointment, they are requesting you fill out a previsit questionnaire. Complete this questionnaire.<br/>
_Guide the user to fill in no more than two questions on the Prepare for Your Appointment page. Only give additional direction if the Veteran gets stuck completing the task._
- **The first thing I see is “answer questions” and it seems like I should click it. This has all of the information for the appointment and myself (Hector). I’ll click continue and fill out the text boxes here. I’d click the “add another question” button after the first for the next one. I’ll click “save” and then “continue.” This takes me back to an overview to review and submit.**

## Reviewing Screens in More Detail - 25 minutes (total for all pages) ##
Great, thank you for doing that exercise. Next, we are going to go back to the beginning of the questionnaire, so I can ask more questions about each page.<br/>
_Help them navigate back to the introduction page by clicking the header of the confirmation page._

### On the Introduction page - 10 minutes ###
- _Ask if the Veteran didn't review the entire page during the Usability Task._ I saw that you immediately clicked the sign in button during the first activity. Take some time now and review the rest of the page.
- What are your impressions of this page?
  - **It seems straightforward, everything makes sense.**
- Review the "How will my personal health information be protected and shared if I use this questionnaire?" question.
  - What are your thoughts about the information provided?
  - Is it what you were expecting or not expecting?
    - **Yes this is what I’d expect. It just tells me about what they will and won’t do with my info.**
- Review the steps information. (Explain if necessary where the steps are.)
  - What are your thoughts about the information provided?
- In what order would you display the emergency, sharing, and steps information?
- Is there any other information we should include here?

### On the Veteran Information page - 2 minutes ###
- Do you feel that VA.gov typically has the correct demographic information for you? 
- Do you find yourself updating contact information at primary care visits often?
  - **I’ve had to do it. It was a pretty simple process. I just went to va.gov and updated my address. It would be better if there were a profile section that I could use that carries over to everything else for the VA.**

### On the This Visit page - 7 minutes ###
_Tell the Veteran before asking questions on this page._ This is the first version of these questions. We plan to expand this form, so you could review your mediations, allergies, medical conditions, and more prior to an appointment.<br/>
- What are your impressions of this page?
  - **It’s a good page. It would act as the nurse who comes in to talk to you beforehand.**
- Do you see value or no value in sharing this information with your primary care provider?
  - **I see value in this, it would help give them an idea of what they’re dealing with.**
- How would you expect your doctor or primary care provider to use this information?
  - **They could check it against your history to see if it’s a recuring issue.**
- Do you feel the in-person part of your appointment with the doctor/nurse will be different after providing this information ahead of time?
  - **No I don’t think so. This would help aid the appointment, but you still need all fo the face to face interaction.**
- _If they didn't edit the "additional details" field,_ why didn't you edit the additional details question?
- _If not explicitly mentioned,_ if you have a lot of questions for your visit, do you think ranking the questions here would help get your most important questions answered first?
  - **I think ranking the questions is a good idea. It’ll make sure that you get the important answers first.**
- Should your questionnaire answers automatically appear in your next upcoming appointment questionnaire as a reminder of what you wanted to discuss/discussed with your provider, then you can make edits? Do you think the information that you enter for these questions will differ drastically each time, so it isn't worth transferring that information to the new questionnaire?
  - **I would say it wouldn’t transfer. Each time is a little different. Some people may rush through it and not update all of the necessary information.**
  
### On the Review page - 2 minutes (Optional) ###
- What are your impressions of this page?
  - **It’s pretty much what I expected. I didn’t ask about the edit button – it seems like it would be to go back and change answers or add explanation. That’s a good thing to have.**
  
### On the Confirmation page - 4 minutes ###
- What are your impressions of this page?
  - **It’s pretty self-explanatory. It’s good that the page will let you know when its all set up. A follow-up confirmation that its been opened or received is nice to have.**
- Once you submit this questionnaire, who do you expect will have access to the answers that you entered? - Is it what you were expecting or not expecting?
- Is there any other information we should include here?
  - **Including contact information of who to contact for questions would be nice to have. Being able to print it would also be nice for confirmation.**
- Where would you like to navigate to next after completing this form? (You can select more than one or none of the following options.)
  - **A list of your upcoming appointments**
  - A list of other questionnaires that you need to complete
  - **VA.gov home page**
  - Other: **It would be nice if the questionnaires were tied to the appointments so that I can see my upcoming appointments and what I need to do for them.**

## Follow-up Questions - 5 minutes ##
- Where on va.gov would you expect all of your healthcare questionnaires to live?
  - Within a "Manage your healthcare benefits" section
  - Within a "More healthcare resources" section
  - **Within a "VA healthcare appointments" section**
  - **On the va.gov homepage**
  - Other:
- When would you fill out this questionnaire?
  - The day before my appointment
  - 2-3 days before my appointment
  - **A week before my appointment**
  - 2-3 weeks before my appointment
  - A month before my appointment
  - Other: **It would depend on the circumstance, but a week is a good timeframe. It would be good to be able to go back in and edit/add to the questionnaire.**
- How would you have liked to receive a notification that you had this questionnaire to complete? (You can select more than one or none of the following options.)
  - text message
  - **email**
  - just visiting VA.gov and seeing it on the website.
  - Other:
- Would you complete the form on your laptop or on your phone?
  - **I usually do these types of things on my laptop. I could do it on my phone but a laptop is preferred.**
- Are there any topics or questions you'd like to see that weren't included in today's exercise?
- Do you have any questions for me?
