# Participant 10 #
## Warm-up Questions - 5 minutes ##
_Participant answers in bold._

- For pre-COVID participants. Can you tell me about the last time that you saw your primary care provider at the VA?
    - What was the experience prior to the appointment like? For example, did you have to fill out any forms before the appointment? Did the nurse ask you a lot of questions?
- For post-COVID participants. Think about your last primary care provider visit at the VA. Did your appointment experience change at all post-COVID?
    - If so, how?
    - Did the length of your appointment feel any different (shorter or longer)?
    - What was the experience prior to the appointment like? For example, did you have to fill out any forms before the appointment? Did the nurse ask you a lot of questions?
- **I had a virtual appointment. It was different than I’m used too but it was easy and simple. It felt the same except for not being in front of the doctor. It was a little bit shorter, too.**
- **About 3 days before the appointment I went through a screening with a nurse.**
- **I have not seen a non-VA provider in the last 10 years.**
    
## Usability Task: Complete the questionnaire - 10 minutes ##
Keep that pre-appointment experience in mind as I tell you about our first exercise. I will give you a task and ask you to "narrate" your thoughts as you complete the task.<br/>
I'm going to send you a link in the chat.<br/>
[Mobile Prototype](https://preview.uxpin.com/a15205c1bedcdfc8fe46fed26c22fa731cab8ae0#/pages//simulate/no-panels?mode=cvhidm)<br/>
[Desktop Prototype](https://preview.uxpin.com/e9e0dc597bb076e74db05f77d35306496a89fca2#/pages//simulate/no-panels?mode=cvhidm)<br/>

Task: Pretend that you (your name in the prototype will be Hector Allen) just scheduled your annual physical exam with your primary care provider. To allow your care team to better meet your needs at the appointment, they are requesting you fill out a previsit questionnaire. Complete this questionnaire.<br/>
_Guide the user to fill in no more than two questions on the Prepare for Your Appointment page. Only give additional direction if the Veteran gets stuck completing the task._
- **I’d start by clicking “answer questions.” This looks pretty basic, I’ll hit continue for the next page. *had no issue filling out the text boxes* The review looks good; I’ll go ahead and submit it.**

## Reviewing Screens in More Detail - 25 minutes (total for all pages) ##
Great, thank you for doing that exercise. Next, we are going to go back to the beginning of the questionnaire, so I can ask more questions about each page.<br/>
_Help them navigate back to the introduction page by clicking the header of the confirmation page._
- **This looks typical. It gives you all of the information that you would need before you give them your information. I’d expect what I enter here to go to any provider in the VA – that’d help to not have to repeat yourself or repeat the form. The section that explains how the VA will protect personal information should be higher up on the page in case people don’t read over the entire page.**

### On the Introduction page - 10 minutes ###
- _Ask if the Veteran didn't review the entire page during the Usability Task._ I saw that you immediately clicked the sign in button during the first activity. Take some time now and review the rest of the page.
- What are your impressions of this page?
- Review the "How will my personal health information be protected and shared if I use this questionnaire?" question.
  - What are your thoughts about the information provided?
  - Is it what you were expecting or not expecting?
- Review the steps information. (Explain if necessary where the steps are.)
  - What are your thoughts about the information provided?
- In what order would you display the emergency, sharing, and steps information?
- Is there any other information we should include here?

### On the Veteran Information page - 2 minutes ###
- Do you feel that VA.gov typically has the correct demographic information for you? 
  - **Yes, for the most part. I rarely go to that part of the site, so it isn’t something I’m familiar with.**
- Do you find yourself updating contact information at primary care visits often?
  - **I’ve updated my information in person and by sending a message to my doctor. Making updates to personal information should be in a profile section – that’d make it easier.**
  
### On the This Visit page - 7 minutes ###
_Tell the Veteran before asking questions on this page._ This is the first version of these questions. We plan to expand this form, so you could review your mediations, allergies, medical conditions, and more prior to an appointment.<br/>
- What are your impressions of this page?
  - **This page is pretty simple and easy to understand.**
- Do you see value or no value in sharing this information with your primary care provider?
  - **I think it is very very valuable to share this type of information with your doctor.**
- How would you expect your doctor or primary care provider to use this information?
  - **I’d expect them to read through it and reach out with questions. I’d expect them to get back to me within 3 days of submitting this.**
- Do you feel the in-person part of your appointment with the doctor/nurse will be different after providing this information ahead of time?
  - **Maybe a little bit shorter, because you gave them some info ahead of time rather than having to do it during the appointment. If you are detailed in your description, then they can be quicker with getting to treatment.**
- _If they didn't edit the "additional details" field,_ why didn't you edit the additional details question?
  - **I didn’t have anything else to add to it. I saw that section as a quick description of why you’re on this form.**
- _If not explicitly mentioned,_ if you have a lot of questions for your visit, do you think ranking the questions here would help get your most important questions answered first?
 - **I don’t typically have  a lot of questions. It’s valuable to be able to rank them, but it doesn’t relate to me.** 
- Should your questionnaire answers automatically appear in your next upcoming appointment questionnaire as a reminder of what you wanted to discuss/discussed with your provider, then you can make edits? Do you think the information that you enter for these questions will differ drastically each time, so it isn't worth transferring that information to the new questionnaire?
  - **I would want the information to transfer over. It makes more sense to keep the info.**
  
### On the Review page - 2 minutes (Optional) ###
- What are your impressions of this page?
  - **It would be good to differentiate physical address and mailing address. The personal information at the top seems a little repetitive, it should just include what you added in the second part of the form.**
  
### On the Confirmation page - 4 minutes ###
- What are your impressions of this page?
  - **This page is pretty basic. It is what I’d expect. It does not seem like I have already gotten an appointment. I would expect to have to wait and hear back from the doctor to see when my appointment is.**
- Once you submit this questionnaire, who do you expect will have access to the answers that you entered? - Is it what you were expecting or not expecting?
- Is there any other information we should include here?
  - **Contact information is always helpful to include. Also, reminders of labs / pre-visit routines.**
- Where would you like to navigate to next after completing this form? (You can select more than one or none of the following options.)
  - A list of your upcoming appointments
  - A list of other questionnaires that you need to complete
  - **VA.gov home page – because I don’t want to have to sign in**
  - Other: **Given the current COVID situation, I would double check the hours and availability of the VA**
  
## Follow-up Questions - 5 minutes ##
- Where on va.gov would you expect all of your healthcare questionnaires to live?
  - Within a "Manage your healthcare benefits" section
  - Within a "More healthcare resources" section
  - Within a "VA healthcare appointments" section
  - On the va.gov homepage
  - Other: **Having a notification within a dashboard would be good, especially when you first sign in.**
- When would you fill out this questionnaire?
  - The day before my appointment
  - **2-3 days before my appointment – that would be the best timing**
  - A week before my appointment
  - 2-3 weeks before my appointment
  - A month before my appointment
  - Other:
- How would you have liked to receive a notification that you had this questionnaire to complete? (You can select more than one or none of the following options.)
  - text message
  - **email**
  - just visiting VA.gov and seeing it on the website.
  - Other:
- Would you complete the form on your laptop or on your phone?
- Are there any topics or questions you'd like to see that weren't included in today's exercise?
- Do you have any questions for me?
