# Participant 12 #
## Warm-up Questions - 5 minutes ##
_Participant answers in bold._

- For pre-COVID participants. Can you tell me about the last time that you saw your primary care provider at the VA?
    - What was the experience prior to the appointment like? For example, did you have to fill out any forms before the appointment? Did the nurse ask you a lot of questions?
- For post-COVID participants. Think about your last primary care provider visit at the VA. Did your appointment experience change at all post-COVID?
    - If so, how?
    - Did the length of your appointment feel any different (shorter or longer)?
    - What was the experience prior to the appointment like? For example, did you have to fill out any forms before the appointment? Did the nurse ask you a lot of questions?
- **For me it didn’t really change much, you just take some more precautions. It was actually surprisingly easy and quick, I called and got seen within a day. (in person)**
- **I saw a non-VA provider about 2 months ago. There wasn’t much difference from the VA, but I complain a lot about the VA. They had me do a COVID questionnaire – on paper. **
    
## Usability Task: Complete the questionnaire - 10 minutes ##
Keep that pre-appointment experience in mind as I tell you about our first exercise. I will give you a task and ask you to "narrate" your thoughts as you complete the task.<br/>
I'm going to send you a link in the chat.<br/>
[Mobile Prototype](https://preview.uxpin.com/a15205c1bedcdfc8fe46fed26c22fa731cab8ae0#/pages//simulate/no-panels?mode=cvhidm)<br/>
[Desktop Prototype](https://preview.uxpin.com/e9e0dc597bb076e74db05f77d35306496a89fca2#/pages//simulate/no-panels?mode=cvhidm)<br/>

Task: Pretend that you (your name in the prototype will be Hector Allen) just scheduled your annual physical exam with your primary care provider. To allow your care team to better meet your needs at the appointment, they are requesting you fill out a previsit questionnaire. Complete this questionnaire.<br/>
_Guide the user to fill in no more than two questions on the Prepare for Your Appointment page. Only give additional direction if the Veteran gets stuck completing the task._
- **I clicked on the first button to start. I’d make the font a little bigger for the older veterans on this first demographic section. The horizontal bar next to the demographic bar should be a different color than all of the other blues on the VA page.**
- **Who does this form go back to? Because if I see an issue with my info on here it looks like I have to call to get it fixed. It’d be good if you can complete a form that gets sent out to someone who can update it.**
- **_asked if being ablet to edit it online would be helpful_ I’m not sure if the updates we make would go to all of the VAs. It’d be nice if there were a follow up call to verify the edits.**
_ **Once I verify that info I would click Continue. *next page* If I wanted to edit the info I’m not sure if it would be a drop down or text box *continued to use text box and figure out which it was* If I had more than one question I would click add question. This reminds me of the secure messaging.**
- **I’d click continue again to go to the last page. I’d like there to also be an email sent to me with confirmation of the appointment.** 

## Reviewing Screens in More Detail - 25 minutes (total for all pages) ##
Great, thank you for doing that exercise. Next, we are going to go back to the beginning of the questionnaire, so I can ask more questions about each page.<br/>
_Help them navigate back to the introduction page by clicking the header of the confirmation page._
- **This looks good. It’s what I’d expect from a government page. I would assume that this is through MyHealthyVet because it says I am signed in.**

### On the Introduction page - 10 minutes ###
- _Ask if the Veteran didn't review the entire page during the Usability Task._ I saw that you immediately clicked the sign in button during the first activity. Take some time now and review the rest of the page.
- What are your impressions of this page?
- Review the "How will my personal health information be protected and shared if I use this questionnaire?" question.
  - What are your thoughts about the information provided?
  - Is it what you were expecting or not expecting?
- Review the steps information. (Explain if necessary where the steps are.)
  - What are your thoughts about the information provided?
- In what order would you display the emergency, sharing, and steps information?
- Is there any other information we should include here?

### On the Veteran Information page - 2 minutes ###
- Do you feel that VA.gov typically has the correct demographic information for you? 
  - **Yes they usually do, but it’s a hassle to update.  Even if you’re at the VA you have to go to registration and I’d rather go to the dentist. Some VAs do advanced care (surgery) and others don’t. But if your info gets updated at one VA it may not get fixed everywhere else.**
- Do you find yourself updating contact information at primary care visits often?
  
### On the This Visit page - 7 minutes ###
_Tell the Veteran before asking questions on this page._ This is the first version of these questions. We plan to expand this form, so you could review your mediations, allergies, medical conditions, and more prior to an appointment.<br/>
- What are your impressions of this page?
  - **It would go nice to add something like a 1-10 scale of pain to elaborate on what you say.**
- Do you see value or no value in sharing this information with your primary care provider?
  - **Part of thinks it fine, the other part thinks it could be improved. It would be cool to have an anatomically accurate person on the screen where you can generally click the area that is in pain or needs attention. It would provide a visual for people who are not able to articulate through words.**
- How would you expect your doctor or primary care provider to use this information?
  - **To get a better understanding of the issue.**
- Do you feel the in-person part of your appointment with the doctor/nurse will be different after providing this information ahead of time?
- _If they didn't edit the "additional details" field,_ why didn't you edit the additional details question?
  - **I didn’t have anything else to add to it. I saw that section as a quick description of why you’re on this form.**
- _If not explicitly mentioned,_ if you have a lot of questions for your visit, do you think ranking the questions here would help get your most important questions answered first?
  - **Possibly. It if I**
- Should your questionnaire answers automatically appear in your next upcoming appointment questionnaire as a reminder of what you wanted to discuss/discussed with your provider, then you can make edits? Do you think the information that you enter for these questions will differ drastically each time, so it isn't worth transferring that information to the new questionnaire?
  - **It would be nice if there were an option to view past questionnaires or past responses to specific questions.**

### On the Review page - 2 minutes (Optional) ###
- What are your impressions of this page?
  - **I have to scroll a lot to get through the page. There should be an option either on page 1 or 3 where you can edit your personal information.** 
  - **It would be good to have a section that describes your disability rating and what it means for your appointment. Some veterans don’t realize what they are eligible for or what is covered.**

### On the Confirmation page - 4 minutes ###
- What are your impressions of this page?
  - **This just looks like a basic VA page.**
- Once you submit this questionnaire, who do you expect will have access to the answers that you entered? - Is it what you were expecting or not expecting?
  - **I would want any updates to my information be VA wide.**
- Is there any other information we should include here?
- Where would you like to navigate to next after completing this form? (You can select more than one or none of the following options.)
  - A list of your upcoming appointments
  - A list of other questionnaires that you need to complete
  - VA.gov home page
  - Other: **Other: I would want to be taken to MyHealthyVet account.**
  
## Follow-up Questions - 5 minutes ##
- Where on va.gov would you expect all of your healthcare questionnaires to live?
  - Within a "Manage your healthcare benefits" section
  - Within a "More healthcare resources" section
  - Within a "VA healthcare appointments" section
  - On the va.gov homepage
  - Other: **You’d have to log in to something. MyHealthyVet would be convenient. It would also be nice to give a blurb about other questionnaires you need to take when you finish one.**
- When would you fill out this questionnaire?
  - The day before my appointment
  - **2-3 days before my appointment**
  - **A week before my appointment – I would expect a reply or at least a read receipt**
  - 2-3 weeks before my appointment
  - A month before my appointment
  - Other:
- How would you have liked to receive a notification that you had this questionnaire to complete? (You can select more than one or none of the following options.)
  - **text message – you could include other required forms/steps for you appointment in the text**
  - email
  - just visiting VA.gov and seeing it on the website.
  - Other: **There are people who won’t answer any particular kind of notification whether it’s a text, voicemail, or email. You can’t catch everybody with one method.**
- Would you complete the form on your laptop or on your phone?
  - **I would do this online, but I would definitely have to complete this on a computer. A keyboard would be helpful for all of the typing I have to do.**
- Are there any topics or questions you'd like to see that weren't included in today's exercise?
- Do you have any questions for me?
