# Participant 15 #
## Warm-up Questions - 5 minutes ##
_Participant answers in bold._

- For pre-COVID participants. Can you tell me about the last time that you saw your primary care provider at the VA?
    - What was the experience prior to the appointment like? For example, did you have to fill out any forms before the appointment? Did the nurse ask you a lot of questions?
- For post-COVID participants. Think about your last primary care provider visit at the VA. Did your appointment experience change at all post-COVID?
    - If so, how?
    - Did the length of your appointment feel any different (shorter or longer)?
    - What was the experience prior to the appointment like? For example, did you have to fill out any forms before the appointment? Did the nurse ask you a lot of questions?
- **Since COVID it was virtual. My phone on last Friday. It was shorter than the normal appointment. The doctors just called my phone directly. No non-va providers.**

## Usability Task: Complete the questionnaire - 10 minutes ##
Keep that pre-appointment experience in mind as I tell you about our first exercise. I will give you a task and ask you to "narrate" your thoughts as you complete the task.<br/>
I'm going to send you a link in the chat.<br/>
[Mobile Prototype](https://preview.uxpin.com/a15205c1bedcdfc8fe46fed26c22fa731cab8ae0#/pages//simulate/no-panels?mode=cvhidm)<br/>
[Desktop Prototype](https://preview.uxpin.com/e9e0dc597bb076e74db05f77d35306496a89fca2#/pages//simulate/no-panels?mode=cvhidm)<br/>

Task: Pretend that you (your name in the prototype will be Hector Allen) just scheduled your annual physical exam with your primary care provider. To allow your care team to better meet your needs at the appointment, they are requesting you fill out a previsit questionnaire. Complete this questionnaire.<br/>
_Guide the user to fill in no more than two questions on the Prepare for Your Appointment page. Only give additional direction if the Veteran gets stuck completing the task._
- **Any other symptoms other than the knee, I am an amputee with no knees so its hard to relate. We will do shoulder.**
- **Where to go: I don’t know maybe answer questions in the green. Scroll down. Where’s the thing that you answer the questions. I don’t know what I would do next because like I guess I would click the green button that says answer questions.**
- **Then click continue, If I can say something, It would be better if the font were better because I would need my glasses to see, okay its better now. I have no questions click continue.**
- **Scroll down, I assume it is all correct in the system. Click pain in shoulder it says right knee. Click submit questions.**
- **That was it there’s nothing else to do there.**

## Reviewing Screens in More Detail - 25 minutes (total for all pages) ##
Great, thank you for doing that exercise. Next, we are going to go back to the beginning of the questionnaire, so I can ask more questions about each page.<br/>
_Help them navigate back to the introduction page by clicking the header of the confirmation page._

### On the Introduction page - 10 minutes ###
- _Ask if the Veteran didn't review the entire page during the Usability Task._ I saw that you immediately clicked the sign in button during the first activity. Take some time now and review the rest of the page.
- What are your impressions of this page?
- Review the "How will my personal health information be protected and shared if I use this questionnaire?" question.
  - What are your thoughts about the information provided?
  - Is it what you were expecting or not expecting?
    - **Yeah, I guess. I don’t ever read all of this stuff because if you don’t agree then idk. I assume they follow HIPPA but I never read it because its like signing anything. You read the big thing but skip the rest.**
- What about the blue box?
  - **You call and get 5 minutes of recording like call 911 if its an emergency.**
- What about the "who this information will be shared with" paragraph?
  - **That may be helpful because it tells you when and where along with that it was sent.**
  - **Placed in medical records: That is good because there can be miscommunication.**
- Review the steps information. (Explain if necessary where the steps are.)
  - What are your thoughts about the information provided?
- In what order would you display the emergency, sharing, and steps information?
- Is there any other information we should include here?
  - **No.**

### On the Veteran Information page - 2 minutes ###
- Do you feel that VA.gov typically has the correct demographic information for you? 
  - **Yes.**
- Do you find yourself updating contact information at primary care visits often?
  - **Yes, there is a lot of different va departments. I tend to use myhealthevet so I update it on the website but I have moved a few times in the last year. There are departments like the adapted housing and clothing allowance that when I updated it myself it doesn’t generate to the other parts of the va because they send mail from an address 5 years ago. There are different websites and departments that don’t communicate with each other.**
- Did you update it online?
  - **Updated online, where: I did it on VA.gov but it doesn’t update the address with everyone in the VA.**
  
### On the This Visit page - 7 minutes ###
_Tell the Veteran before asking questions on this page._ This is the first version of these questions. We plan to expand this form, so you could review your mediations, allergies, medical conditions, and more prior to an appointment.<br/>
- What are your impressions of this page?
  - **It is okay but if I could I would add an additional option. To have a place where you can upload documents/pictures like if you have a rash or want to share a picture of the shoulder/knee so you can send that to. A picture is worth 1000 words, you can say you have pain and a rash so you could attach the picture to show them.**
- Do you see value or no value in sharing this information with your primary care provider?
  - **The big thing there is that if you have a concern effecting your health. I don’t see the relation between me asking to see the doctor due to the pain it doesn’t have to deal with a new job, divorce. I understand if it is medical but I don’t see the link between babies and divorce with the pain in your knee. I would skip it. The additional questions you have there, you can add what you want. It is the biggest square so they expect you to write a lot but there’s only one line for the important questions.**
- What about the additional details box?
  - **What about details: Not having a restriction on the number of letters because sometimes they limit it so you cannot complete the sentence. Then maybe a link to attach documents or pictures.**
- How would you expect your doctor or primary care provider to use this information?
  - **They can do research prior to you seeing them because a lot of times you see them and it looks like anyone can be a doctor when they are sitting in front of the computer so you tell them and then it looks like they google it. They just read that it could be this or this or that. They don’t do it like back in the day when they look or touch it for a physical exam and it like they ask questions then google it and says what the computer tells them it is and they have you get blood work or x rays.**
- Do you feel the in-person part of your appointment with the doctor/nurse will be different after providing this information ahead of time?
  - **Help the appointment: I hope they would google it and hope that they know what they are talking about because it seems like they don’t know much because they google it in front of you. Anyone can do that.**
- _If they didn't edit the "additional details" field,_ why didn't you edit the additional details question?
- _If not explicitly mentioned,_ if you have a lot of questions for your visit, do you think ranking the questions here would help get your most important questions answered first?
  - **Yes**
- Should your questionnaire answers automatically appear in your next upcoming appointment questionnaire as a reminder of what you wanted to discuss/discussed with your provider, then you can make edits? Do you think the information that you enter for these questions will differ drastically each time, so it isn't worth transferring that information to the new questionnaire?
  - **Repeat with the option to edit if needed**
- Additional comment or questions
    - **Additional comments or questions: Remove the big thing about life changes-marriage, etc. Then something to add more than one picture because there can be more than one angle that you have to take the picture of.**
  
### On the Review page - 2 minutes (Optional) ###
- What are your impressions of this page?
  - **It is good to review everything that you are about to send, then click submit.**
  
### On the Confirmation page - 4 minutes ###
- What are your impressions of this page?
  - **One thing I would add, let’s say the doctor may contact you fi you need testing prior to the appointment. Maybe 2 weeks prior the lab will require the blood test or an x ray of the area. Yes I would think the doctor would look at this when sent. So when you see them they don’t tell you to go get the blood work or x-rays but instead have all the results prior to doing the diagnosis.**
- What if the doctor didn't review until the appointment?
  - **I think as soon as it is sent to the provider they should have 48 hours to read it and react. If they read it prior to the appointment they will eb like go get the Xray then come back in a few week. You could get the things done prior to going to see the provider so its not just to repeat what is wrote right here, he knows why your there and the information that he needs, like he could go over the Xray then go over it to get it fixed.  When you go see the doctor and fill out why you’re here then see the assistant nurse, tell her then the nurse and the med student then the doctor. You are repeating the same thing over and over. Yeah it could help if they have 48 hours to review then let the patient know if they need anything else prior to the appointment. Like the provider could order the x ray and the lab prior, then he would know why your there and not have to repeat it because it is annoying to have to constantly repeat why you’re here. There is no privacy when they ask here. If you tell 5 people why your there prior to seeing the doctor.**
- When would you want to fill this out?
  - **60 days ahead of time then the doctor has 48 hours then they tell you want to need to do prior to the appointment so you can get it all down prior to seeing them and they have the result.**
- Would you fill it out?
  - **Yes, on my computer a phone it to small.**
- Questions: 
  - **They always ask if there’s a change in medication.**
- What if you have questions or steps: 
  - **It says the information is sent to the provider, but it should add that they have 2 business days to communicate back with you then I would receive a secure message that they have received the questionnaire saying that they need me to do this or that they don’t need anything.**
- Everything you want in follow up email?
  - **yeah and make sure that they received it and it has been read. You would know when they sent back the massage and know what needs to be done prior.**
- Where would you go after this: 
  - **Is there anything else after this; I would just close it out. Link to home back would be good.**
  
## Follow-up Questions - 5 minutes ##
- Where on va.gov would you expect all of your healthcare questionnaires to live?
  - **in the medical records section or medical information stuff. Appointments are totally different things. I am an amputee so there’s more than just medical appointments, the doctor doesn’t know anything about fake legs or anything and they don’t need/want to know what other doctors are doing.**
- How would you have liked to receive a notification that you had this questionnaire to complete? (You can select more than one or none of the following options.)
  - **text message or but usually email for me**
- Are there any topics or questions you'd like to see that weren't included in today's exercise?
  - **Asking if they are in pain today, not the emergency thing but for real if I have pain you don’t need to call 911 for that but you wouldn’t  want to wait 2-3 months before being seen. If it is an emergency but not like calling 911 if you can be seen within 48 hours that would be good.**
  - **Pain scale looked at to get you in quicker: Yes, realistically you don’t call 911 unless its huge but you don’t want to wait 3 plus months for an appointment I would be cured by then. I would need to be seen within 48 hours, don’t tell me to call 911 you don’t do that unless you’re like dying. Maybe it should be more specific on which doctor the information is being sent to , but if you have a problem you don’t know who to contact. Like a doctor’s name so you know where to go or who to contact instead of being like I don’t know the VA. Something more specific than this.**
- Do you have any questions for me?
