# Participant 16 #
## Warm-up Questions - 5 minutes ##
_Participant answers in bold._

- For pre-COVID participants. Can you tell me about the last time that you saw your primary care provider at the VA?
  - **Can you tell me about the last time that you saw your primary care provider at the VA? My last appointment was routine and it was roughly 6 months ago, before covid really kept us from doing anything. Nothing unusual but it was a normal appointment and I have another appointment tomorrow over the phone.**
- Pre-appointment check in for either:
  - **Yes they do that yes. Yes for in person.** 
- Do you see any non-va providers? 
  - **No I do not. Wait I saw one on Friday.**
- Was the check-in different at the non-VA provider?
  - **No, the only difference I saw was that the person doing it was in their fellowship whereas at the VA it is always a nurse.**  
- What type of non-va provider did you see?
  - **Neurologist but I normally see them through the VA but this was for Medical marijuana and IN pa you can only go to certain people for that and that’s why I went there.** 

## Usability Task: Complete the questionnaire - 10 minutes ##
Keep that pre-appointment experience in mind as I tell you about our first exercise. I will give you a task and ask you to "narrate" your thoughts as you complete the task.<br/>
I'm going to send you a link in the chat.<br/>
[Mobile Prototype](https://preview.uxpin.com/a15205c1bedcdfc8fe46fed26c22fa731cab8ae0#/pages//simulate/no-panels?mode=cvhidm)<br/>
[Desktop Prototype](https://preview.uxpin.com/e9e0dc597bb076e74db05f77d35306496a89fca2#/pages//simulate/no-panels?mode=cvhidm)<br/>

Task: Pretend that you (your name in the prototype will be Hector Allen) just scheduled your annual physical exam with your primary care provider. To allow your care team to better meet your needs at the appointment, they are requesting you fill out a previsit questionnaire. Complete this questionnaire.<br/>
_Guide the user to fill in no more than two questions on the Prepare for Your Appointment page. Only give additional direction if the Veteran gets stuck completing the task._
- **Okay so click answer questions, I guess it would help if I read it I guess. I would click answer questions. I would click continue. Then click continue.**
**Can you click back to the other page, pretending you are filling it out now, what would you do: The first box is already filled in and I actually have that. I would add anything in the second box. I don’t have any additional questions so I would click continue. Then I am reading and verifying the other stuff. I am okay with that so I would click submit questions. Wouldn’t it be submit answers? That would make more sense but that is up to you. I think it makes more sense to say submit answers.**

## Reviewing Screens in More Detail - 25 minutes (total for all pages) ##
Great, thank you for doing that exercise. Next, we are going to go back to the beginning of the questionnaire, so I can ask more questions about each page.<br/>
_Help them navigate back to the introduction page by clicking the header of the confirmation page._

### On the Introduction page - 10 minutes ###
- _Ask if the Veteran didn't review the entire page during the Usability Task._ I saw that you immediately clicked the sign in button during the first activity. Take some time now and review the rest of the page.
- What are your impressions of this page?
- Review the "How will my personal health information be protected and shared if I use this questionnaire?" question.
  - What are your thoughts about the information provided?
  - Is it what you were expecting or not expecting?
    - **It is what I was expecting.**
  - What about the information in the Blue box expected or not?
    - **Expecting.** 
  - What about the last question on the screen?
    - **Expecting.** 
  - What are your thoughts about the information provided?
    - **That is great for me.**
- Is there any other information we should include here?
  - **Not that I can think of.**

### On the Veteran Information page - 2 minutes ###
- Do you feel that VA.gov typically has the correct demographic information for you? 
  - **Yes.**
- Do you find yourself updating contact information at primary care visits often?
  - **Yes.**
- Where at, in person, online?
  - **did it when checking into an appointment, It went fine.** 
- What if it could be done on VA gov?
  - **That’s fine.**
- Would you want to update it in this form or profile section?
  - **I would think maybe the profile section because it would have all of the information and you can do it all at once.** 
  
### On the This Visit page - 7 minutes ###
_Tell the Veteran before asking questions on this page._ This is the first version of these questions. We plan to expand this form, so you could review your mediations, allergies, medical conditions, and more prior to an appointment.<br/>
- What are your impressions of this page?
  - **It is the same thing at it was before.**
- Do you see value or no value in sharing this information with your primary care provider?
  - **Its not really telling me anything, it isn’t saying anything it is just asking why I am going. I see value and it is asking why you need the appointment I see value in that.**
- What about the additional details box?
  - **Yeah you can add to it. There is value there.**
- How would you expect your doctor or primary care provider to use this information?
  - **You mean the three things, for them to know why you are there and then they would know that they will be looking at prior to getting back there. I see value in that because if you have had it before they can see if you’ve had it and then you can see if it is safe for you at the time for them to know what you are going through. Then you may be having other chest pain or something that may be due to stress from the changes in life so there’s value and the questions portion so they can be prepared for it.**
- Do you feel the in-person part of your appointment with the doctor/nurse will be different after providing this information ahead of time?
  - **I think it would be shorter. If they know this ahead they aren’t asking you it there and if you placed something in 3 it could shorten the visits because they would be able to prepare for the visit better.**
- _If not explicitly mentioned,_ if you have a lot of questions for your visit, do you think ranking the questions here would help get your most important questions answered first?
  - **Yes**
- Should your questionnaire answers automatically appear in your next upcoming appointment questionnaire as a reminder of what you wanted to discuss/discussed with your provider, then you can make edits? Do you think the information that you enter for these questions will differ drastically each time, so it isn't worth transferring that information to the new questionnaire?
  - **You would want to start new because I don’t know if I saw one provider then the same person. I tend to see two different people. I go to optometry tomorrow instead of my doctor.**
- What if it is the same doctor do you want it filled in?
  - **If it is the same doctor it wouldn’t hurt to have it filled in but they are two separate appointments so I am looking at the questions and the optometrist wouldn’t be able to address my pain in the knee.**

### On the Review page - 2 minutes (Optional) ###
- What are your impressions of this page?
  - **You can have two different address on here.**
- One mail and one home address
  - **They both say street address**
- You want more descriptive labels?
  - **There are different cities as well but the same state. You would want maybe primary address then label the second differently. There’s two different address there. That’s the only thing I would bring up on that.**
  
### On the Confirmation page - 4 minutes ###
- What are your impressions of this page?
  - **There’s not a whole lot there, this would be the last screen you see before you went back to your appointments.**
- In person and virtual?
  - **I have to do it prior to entering in my appointment then it tells we were to go. I would expect to do this when going to in person appointments as well. It would be a lot better to fill it out days prior, if you have questions to ask it will allow them to have time to look into the questions instead of 15 minutes prior.**
- When would they look at it?
  - **Anytime prior to the appointment but I wouldn’t say 24 hrs. prior.**
- Where would you navigate to next after completing this form?: 
  - **You would do this prior to going to your waiting area or after this we look forward to seeing you at this place and the date/time or have a section for them to ask if we want them to know anything additional. Its one last shot to ask a questions.**
  - **I think right now they do the va appointments within the next 30 days but tells me I have an appointment form 6 months form now won’t do any better. If you want to tell me the next appointments in the next 2-3 months I wouldn’t want to go much further than that. I wouldn’t mind going to appointments after this page.**
- Anything additional to this page?
  - **No**
- What about information on how to prepare for this appointment?
  - **When you are saying that does it include the blue at the bottom. I think adding the contact information and name would be a good idea, I think it depends on the veteran themselves. If I have a question I will ask the question over the internet so.**
- Would you want to connect to secure messaging from here?
  - **I guess for me it is difficult when you have 3-4 places you can go or call. I think it is easier to use myhealthevet, I have made appointments and everything. I can see crossing over with them but it wouldn’t help to have the number to. A lot of people don’t like computers because we are not technical logy advanced. I would rather pick up the phone and call someone but it is frustrating getting placed on hold or the number is busy please leave a message. That adds more frustration, when I send a message on myhealthevet they get back to you quicker. I may not check right away.**
  - **Secure messaging is valuable so not a bad thing: If nothing else give us a choice.**
- Would you fill this out?
  - **Yes, I would feel more comfortable on a desktop/laptop rather than the phone because I am old and the phone isn’t always easy to see.**

## Follow-up Questions - 5 minutes ##
- Where on va.gov would you expect all of your healthcare questionnaires to live?
  - **Within a "VA healthcare appointments" section**
  - **Other: I would say under that has to do with appointments.**
- What about connecting to other health records?
  - **That would beneficial as well due to it being health related.**
- What about between the two?
  - **I would say appointments because you made the appointment for your right knee so it makes more sense for it to be under appointments.**
- How would you have liked to receive a notification that you had this questionnaire to complete? (You can select more than one or none of the following options.)
  - **text message**
  - **email, I check my emails every day. They also send text messages so that would be good to. Either one of those but I would say I know for myself when I am home if the phone rings and I don’t know the number I don’t answer it so if you do the phone call I may not get it. I think the email and text is the main ways to do it. I have talked to a lot of people and they do the same thing.** 
- Are there any topics or questions you'd like to see that weren't included in today's exercise?
  - **Not that I can think of.**
- Do you have any questions for me?
  - **Not that I can think of.**
