# Running Notes for Design & Research Teams 1 & 2 (T-Rex & Carbs)

## 10/18/23
NOTE: Running notes has been moved to this document: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Z9syIZoV8ndQ8eBIIDYA8Vl3-ZyfMLnLnBYqKISpOs8/edit


## 9/27/23
Agenda
- Sitemap walkthrough
- Data Research Plan Update and moving forward
- Discuss approach to organizing the data (which fields are most important? how are we selecting which pages to include?) 

  

## 9/21/23
Attendees: Kate, Julie, Nichole, Lydia and Evelyn

Agenda
- Moving forward on small research topics from Shannon (What's the plan and can we collaborate)
- Sprint Updates Team 1 & 2

Notes:
- Moving forward on small research topics from Shannon (What's the plan and can we collaborate)
- Team 2 was excited about the shadowing research because we would have a level of interaction and be able to spend longer sessions with Veterans.  Worried about whether this will help us prioritize our backlog
- 4142 feels like an emerging priority for Team 2
- Team 1
- 4142 seems like it's a good place to move through the Collaborative Cycle. Likes the idea of doing the shadow research and working together more tightly
- Other research topics mentioned by Shannon
- ITF
- Form Abandonment and Evidence (Shadowing)
- Team 1 wants to collaborate on shadowing.  
- Sounds like we have the go head to work as a unit on research 
- Julie has started to draft the research plan.  Could we do multiple things at once 
- Team 1 is working on TE and intro pages for design
- Medailla survey could take about a week
- Team 1 and 2 (Julie, Everyln, and Nichole) will work on the Research Plan for Shadowing
- Team 1 meeting with Shannon on 4142 on Friday to get clarity on how to move forward, wireframe, and research and how it relates to other forms.
- News on reprioritization: There will be a few sprints before it happens or it will happen in November
- Is there some research that can help inform prioritization because the conversation may lead to passion projects and tech debt
- Shadowing and Medallia Survey Data to help us prioritization
- Start with the summary pages and the review and submit page because those might be times when the Veteran is thinking retrospectively 
- Could also take a smaller chunk of time to look at the survey
- Not sure if we can do deep on shadowing data
- Leslie/ Employee Experience was working on shadowing.  Caroline Due was the one who responded
- Lydia wants to do a Sitemap recording.  
- Need more time to chat before we talk to Shannon

To Do
- Team 1: Get more insight for the Employee Experience team about shadowing (if they have done it, where is the research, etc)
- Team 2: Draft research plan for Shadowing 
- Find a meeting time to determine our next step as a team

  FYI- Off-sites
- Friends from the City Offsite Oct 9- 13
- Coforma Offsite: Oct 23-27

  








## 9/13/23
Attendees: Kate, Julie, Nichole, Lydia, Evelyn, and Rakshinda

Agenda
- Retrospective on toxic exposure research collaboration 
  
## 9/7/23- cancelled
Attendees:

Agenda

## 8/24/23

Attendees: Kate, Julie, Nichole, Lydia and Evelyn

Agenda
Error Matrix Discussion
- Nichole will Slack Lydia to connect about the Error message and learn more context

Roadmap/ Moving forward/ collaboration
- Team 2 is working on a roadmap with stakeholders
- Feels of working on a lot of tech debt via bug fixes and migration
- Brainstorm for getting others on board with research- Weekly post of user questions

## 8/17/23

Attendees:

Agenda
-Research session questions (Kate)

## 8/10/23

Attendees: Kate, Julie, Nichole, and Lydia

Agenda
Review and Submit Sketch Updates
- We learned that many items in Sketch are not customizable
- Possible flow change, but on pause until Submission page work is completed
Error message and analytics tickets
- Can close tickets in content discovery
- Prioritize tickets from Nyantee
  
Upcoming toxic exposure research
- TE research interviews will begin August 21-27
- Nichole will work with Team 1 to moderate interviews for morning sessions

Misc News
- New researcher will be joining Team 1 on Aug 15 to help with research

## 8/3/23- cancelled

Attendees:

Agenda
- Project Updates
## 7/27/23

Attendees:Kate, Julie, & Nichole

Agenda
- Team 1 Sprint Updates and Team Member update
- Team 2 Sprint Updates
- Collaboration opportunities (TE Research)
- Also research to learn more about TE

    
## 7/20/23
Attendees: Nyantee, Kate, Julie, Nichole

Agenda
- Team 1 Upcoming Sprint Goals
- TE updates
- Team 1 & 2 Collaboration
NOTES

Team 1 Upcoming Sprint Goals
- Team 1 will be working on the following tickets for the upcoming sprint (Sprint 8): Ticket 62295, 61915, and 62296.

TE Updates
- Julie and Nyantee have a meeting today to discuss how to move forward on the TE project
- Kate now has access to Google Docs and Sketch files for TE
- Nyantee will be discussing objectives and what should be tested (mobile vs desktop)
- Solutions workshop will be scheduled for next week. This will help inform the work we are doing and how we can collaborate
  
## 7/13/23
Attendees: Nyantee, Kate, Julie, Nichole

Agenda
- Error message update
- Submit and Confirmation pages redesign and timeline
- TE updates?

NOTES

Error message update
-    Nyantee will continue to look into this error and provide details by Friday.
-    Nichole will post in Slack to see if Nathan has any code insight into the error message.

Submit and Confirmation pages redesign and timeline
-   This item didn't make it into the roadmap this quarter and will probably be pushed to the next quarter.
-   Team 1 would like to move forward with research and provide a short-term solution to the issues
-   Ping Rakshinda for more details about where this would fall on the roadmap

TE updates
-    Nyantee had a conversation with Shannon about continuing the work on TE over 4142.  There is also a discussion about re-testing the changes on the landing page.
-    There is a hold for the Readout of the 526 Landing Page on Wednesday, July 18 at 4PM EST
-    Julie speak with Shannon and CAIA about TE.  There are a couple of unresolved issues.  All changes are being tracked in Sharepoint.
   
## 7/6/23
Attendees: Nyantee, Kate, Julie, Nichole

Notes
- Team 2 / Carbs working on error messaging and validation
- Nyantee went through some survey feedback (based on feedback button that exists on each page of the form) and has been creating tickets based on these, but unsure about capacity to continue this work (it's also a few months old, so data might be a little out of date).
- 600 responses, useful as supplementary data. Should be shareable, includes some PII, can only view on remote desktop. Nyantee to check with Shannon to see if they need to scrub that first. 
- Contact center said we could make request for custom surveys on that page, something for Nyantee and Nichole to chat to further. Can reach out on our support channel on Slack, #vsp-contact-center-support
- What staging profiles to use? Might depend on the error message, can check with engineers to understand which profiles will have the required info
- Lydia started a spreadsheet to track all error messages (mostly focused on error content) - https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1s3mIDmsPk98q80qCyXP9Q3XhgqdV42JMGwVVG7-InLw/edit#gid=0
- Also need to capture errors that are missing / not visible to the user, will add this as a category
- Nyantee wrapping up intro page synthesis, excited to see where it lands - might want to retest changes
- Reminder to add ideas for Q3 prioritization here: https://app.mural.co/t/departmentofveteransaffairs9999/m/departmentofveteransaffairs9999/1677075027359/3be1457e29c424eeada818562a30b363a778fff0?wid=39-1688575360079&sender=udbd39c1bbebb4ec4d7d08829


## 6/22/23
Attendees: Lydia, Nyantee, Julie

Agenda
- Discuss toxic exposure "pairing"
- Discuss bug support
- Review sitemap and validate changes


## 6/22/23
Attendees: Lydia, Nyantee, Julie

Agenda
- Review sitemap and validate changes
- (Didn't record, notes documented in the sitemap/form flow Mural)

## 6/15/23
Attendees: Lydia, Nyantee, Nichole

Agenda
- Review sitemap and validate changes
- Sitemap screenshots (How to)
- Are there additional paths to be added or explored (Reserve and PTSD added)

- Meeting was recorded. The recording will be posted in Slack. A channel was not decided.  https://coformaco.zoom.us/rec/share/UNk_m9jWw8nBzED839NYlEJyCpyyc3GpKOOVazyuN1EKm4DGtUpvlb8PoIvSUn4l.g-p4a22ZtlU8rmzJ?startTime=1686852414000
Passcode: %?mH9eY$
- Discussed sitemap changes with the group. Nichole will continue to make changes to the sitemap as they are released.
- Next meeting: Chat about yellow sticky notes and get clarification on missing ideas/sections. 
## 6/8/23
Attendees: Lydia, Nyantee, Nichole, Julie

- Julie will create page in the design folder for notes

- All changes throughout the form will impact exit rates
  - What do we want to do when overlap happens?
  - Are there other parameters beyond exit rates that could inform our roadmap?
  - We don’t know yet! We’ll start with updating the site map as we’re resolving analytics questions and clarifying metrics

- Form Flow / Sitemap Mural versioning
  - Will check Mural permissions and consider downloading PDFs for versioning
  - IA team created the sitemap, Team 1 hasn’t had changes to make to the sitemap yet
  - For design work, Lydia shares Sketch files with Collab Cycle or front end engineers
      - All sketch files are open and available once we get access
      - Some teams might only share what’s part of the collab cycle
      - There is no single Sketch file with all parts of the flow
- Black stickies are changes underway AND on the roadmap
- How do we know when things go live?
    - Depends on if they’re going through Collab Cycle
    - How long do changes usually take? It’s complicated! There is no “normal” way
    - Pinned Collab Cycle criteria to the design channel, might change if the roadmap changes
    - Might be helpful for us to shadow the Collab Cycle with Lydia
    - First steps we’ve seen: create designs, get feedback from OCTO at sprint review…


- Who made this 526 design review Mural and what’s its status? https://app.mural.co/t/departmentofveteransaffairs9999/m/departmentofveteransaffairs9999/1676487520026/4af83a6b8196cf61ff93abc7cf17b8260fa80240?sender=udbd39c1bbebb4ec4d7d08829 
  - This was created while working on Team 1 roadmap, Lydia still references it, but might just be noise for Team 2
  - Pink stickies in the sitemap haven’t been updated, could walk through this together (these might be design comments from the IA team)

- Analytics questions
    - “Optional” steps
      - Team 1 inherited it, they don’t know why
      - There’s an open ticket requesting an update to the funnel
