# Metrics chat with Luke about claim status | 7.2.20

#### TL;DR — This team is just starting to revisit claim status and does not have OKRs and KPIs that were established by the original team. Luke is working to scope what work needs to happen on this tool going forward, and he is in the process of figuring out what metrics matter to them. We should regroup with this team in a couple months to see how our work might impact the claim status tool, if at all.

- Claim status current issues
  - Call center - Want people to be making fewer calls re: claim status.
    - Can sort of measure this. They have an analysis of call center calls from the call center. Luke can share.
    - CC calls around claim status are a CIO initiative.
    - Team is making updates that are launching soon re: how we display information about how long claim status timing takes. This might reduce call center volume.
- People report the status they see on VA.gov is wrong.
  - Right now, they are not sure how they could quanitfy improvement around this. 
- People don't understand their status.
  - Right now, they are not sure how they could quanitfy improvement around this. 
- Claim status has tech discovery to do with down stream systems. How much more info is in the lower level databases? Are they truly exposing all info, or are we getting a scrubbed version of reality?
- This team wants to understand how long it takes for veterans to respond to requests for additional information. 
- Metric for # of docs uploaded may not be great metric.
- It would be nice to know if actions we took reduced the amount of time between when a veteran was notified of action needed (upload document, respond to something) and when the veteran took that action. But there is not likely a way to measure this right now. 
- Re: available data — VBA has metrics system called Tableau that has some valuable metrics. They track how many claims/requests, but maybe not necessarily how long between different steps. Luke might work with VBA to see if we could get more nuanced metrics into this system. It's not likely this stuff would come from GA.
