## IA meeting 2.18.20

### Who was there

- Clarice
- Jen
- Mikki
- Samara

### What we talked about

- We walked through Mikki's proposal for a flattened IA for the site overall, including unauth content and authenticated tools.
- Right now, there's not anyone to champion this work and fully dedicate themselves to moving it forward. This means that it's unlikely that we'd have updated site IA by the time we launch the new dashboard, but that doesn't mean we can't potentially update navigation from the logged in experience.

### Next steps

- We agree we need to socialize this work to the larger team in order for us to get more eyes (and resources) on it. Mikki is going to put a deck together that we can circulate to the team in hopes that it will get this moved up the priority list.
- Mikki wants to run a card sort on the work she proposed.

### Other stuff

- I followed up with Ryan after the meeting to get the mockups he had proposed to reflect the new IA. There wasn't anything in there re: authenticated navigation, but this does give us an idea of approaches that might be possible.
- With Meg joining the team, would she be someone who could potentially further develop/champion this work?
