01/05/2018, 09:00 Eastern Time

*Moderator comments in italic*

### Warm-up questions

- *Can you tell me a little bit about yourself? (If stuck, prompt to ask about service experience, where they live, their work)*
  - Work at Microsoft. Have a wife and 3 kids. Live in a nice neighborhood. Open book. pretty comfortable talking to just about anybody. Marine Corps for 13 years. Got out in October, 2015. 
- *What's your favorite thing about living in [place]?*
- *Have you used the VA for services before? If yes, which? If not, why not?*
  - eBenefits? Used VA loan. Used a little bit of my GI bill benefits a while back. Got VA healthcare. Haven't used that yet. I've used some benefits. 
- *How do you access benefits? Do you use any online services to manage them? What was that experience like?*
  - I go to eBenefits.
- *Are you familiar with Vocational Rehabilitation and Employment services through the VA? Are you using those benefits? Do you plan to use those benefits in the future?*
  - I am. I applied for voc rehab a couple of months ago, had to cancel the appointment with the counselor - had other thing come up. I'm familiar with it. not 100% familiar with all the benefits it offers. Canceled (my counseling appointment) because I felt I wasn't 100% worthy of using it and someone else would probably be more worthy of using it

### Getting situated on Vets.gov

- *Have you ever used Vets.gov before?*
  - Just the sessions that we've been to. Been a few times between that. I think I was there once before we started these sessions, not sure. Haven't poked around too much. 
- *When you have questions about your VA benefits, where do you go to find information?*
  - Most of the time go to eBenefits because that's where I applied for benefits. I figured _ more information would be there as well

### Finding out your eligibility 

Prototype: https://adhoc.invisionapp.com/share/KXF2UUB3H

*Feel free to take a minute to look around the eligibility page*

​	(Reading beginning of first paragraph, scrolls down to blue box). It's pretty much self explanatory. If you meet these requirements, you'd be eligible for it. 

**_Prototype page 1_**
- *Read through the content in this page. How would you go about finding out whether or not you are eligible for VR&E benefits?*
  - Use the first box (wizard) if you're a veteran, service member, spouse...
  - I'd click on veteran and click next. Would expect it to bring me to a page about who's eligible. redirect me down the page somewhere. didn't expect to see this next step, but that's nice, some sort of wizard. I have honorable discharge, so I'd say no **(check recording)**. and click next. Had some confusion before.
  - *what kind of confusion did you have before?*
    - Just glancing at it - you're going: do you meet this, this, this. You may forget one thing. You may forget you answered dishonorable and you look down on the eligibility list. I meet most of these requirements. am I still eligibile? If you have something like this wizard - obviously it stores the information.  seems like it would be a little easier than reading through a whole page on eligibility. Captures the information so that you don't have to remember the answers given
- *Who is eligible for VR&E benefits?*
- *What do you think would happen if you selected your service criteria and hit next?*


- *Why do you think you're being asked these questions?*
- *How many more steps do you think there are before you find out whether or not you are eligible for VR&E benefits?*
  - 3-4. but if not, the more the better because it gives you a little bit of a… can't go too granular in it - there may be extenuating circumstances for some people. Getting the major questions answered will allow you to determine Am I eligible or am I not eligible. If I am eligible, it tells me what I have to do next.
  - *Clicks next to go to disability rating*
    - Yeah, that's what I expected to see. I'm at 30% and separated in the next 12 years
- *What do you think would happen if you clicked "no" on discharge in past 12 years?*
  - Would say "you're not eligible for this benefit" or say what you are eligible for or maybe there are some other circumstances next in the wizard

**_Last step - eligibility decision_**
- *Is this what you thought you would see here?*
  - Yeah. Like I said, if there's enough info you put in there - you could be eligible for it. would be good to see what the next steps were. Okay, apply for counseling. I've done this part, got the letter in the mail. got an email from the counselor. spoke to the counselor on the phone. that was nice too to get multiple means of communication with the counselor. Got a phone number probably through the email, but I don't know. Could have been when I applied for counseling it said there was a number for an office near there, not 100% sure.
- *What else do you want to know about your eligibility now?*
- *Does this information help you determine whether you are eligible for VR&E benefits?*
  - I think so. Yeah, I mean you just basically went through a wizard that had some of the prerequisite questions that if you scroll down, all of those questions are probably in the complete eligibility info field. it makes it easier. I look at computers every day. me looking at things on a web page is a little different from the average veteran. I made this reference to my dad before. he was confused reading the page of text, but if he had questions he could just answer, it would alleviate confusion. would be helpful for me if i was in the same situation. that's awesome. I can focus on what questions I need to answer rather than questions I've already answered. that's good. 
  - *would someone have enough info to apply?*
    - ​
- Do you have more information now than at the beginning of this process about whether or not you are eligible for VR&E benefits? If yes, what information?
- *What would you do next?*
- *What do you think you would see here if you weren't eligible?*
  - "hey, you're not eligible" and the reason why. you didn't meet disability rating or time of service, point you to other benefits that are available or if there's nothing available point them to additional educational info for them. there's a lot of stuff out there for vets that we don't know about. I actually heard about this through a friend. If I didn't hear about it from him, I probably wouldn't have applied for it. That was 3-4 months ago. If this was readily available on the internet - if I knew about vets.gov before, I probably would have found the info then. If someone's not eligible, the reason why should be displayed. 
- *What would you do if you disagreed with this information?*
- *Do you feel that you have enough information to apply? If not, what else do you want to know? Where would you go to find that information?*
  - I think so. Next step should be verification. People can just put anything in the wizard. Counselors would verify eligibility.
- *Where would you go to begin the application process, if you were ready to apply?*
- *What would you expect to happen if you clicked on [either call to action]? Did you notice the other link? If you clicked that link, what would you expect to happen?*
- *is it clear that applying for counseling is the first step to receiving vocational rehab benefits?*
  - yes. It says right there find out if you're eligible for it here. It's pretty clear to me.
  - *Did you see the second link in the box?*
    - Yeah, the Apply Online link. think it would bring you to a form so that you can apply. Well, I don't know what the apply for counseling button does. Might bring you to a page where you can apply online. Honestly I don't know. I'd click on it to see
  - *Do you think there's enough info for someone to figure out which of these they should click on?*
    - It's pretty well written. Recommending that you should apply Apply for Counseling first. It's recommending the green button there over "apply online", but it doesn't stop you from "applying online"...

*Ok, now we're going to look at the application for VR&E itself. Even though you're on a computer right now, I'm going to show you what the application would look like if you were applying using a mobile phone. Do you currently use a smartphone?*

### Apply for VR&E (Chapter 36)

Prototype: https://adhoc.invisionapp.com/share/G9F1A8U7K

Oh, that's pretty cool.

**_Form landing page_**
- *What is the first thing you would do upon arriving on this page?*
  - I'd definitely read - scroll down, see what's in the blue box. Okay, that just says you can save it. I'd sign in, i'm sorry, i'd start the VR&E application
    - *would you want to see the steps below?*
      - I would. You have all this info here. Prepare. Yeah, I'd want all the info first. You can apply and then the VA would review it. Pretty sure there would be a decision after that. Okay, there's a button down below. My concern is if you have the button at top above the info, some people might not read the info first - just hit apply and then have to go start digging around for stuff. You can save it, so that's good - it doesn't time out or expire.
      - *Think you'd be able to sign in later in this process*
        - Yeah.
      - *what if someone didn't have an account*
        - probably if you don't have one, register for the account.
  - Having read through the "prepare and all that stuff, hit start the application"
- *Do you have enough information to begin the application?*
- *What information do you think you might find out if you scroll down?*
- *Is this what you were expecting to see?*
  - Kind of. _ you have a lot of radio buttons. the least amount of info you have to type in the better. First one I'd click "yes"
  - *How many steps do you think are left?*
    - 5 more including this one (on step 2)
  - If you sign into your account, is this info going to be prepopulated, or do you have to type it all in? Like I said, the less stuff you have to type on a mobile device, the better. If you're signing in, some of that info could be taken in and speed up the process.
  - Just double check to make sure everything's correct (if it's prefilled). I know not all the info would be stored, so you'd put that info in. I don't know my VA phone number, but doesn't look as though it's required. so I'd just hit continue.

**_Interior pages_**
- *Were you expecting to be asked this information? (step 3 - additional info)*
  - When I've applied for other benefits before, it's asked what benefits I've used. Those two look like the most commonly used benefits, so yeah. I'm not sure if I would expect to see it, but it's nice to see. The counselor could say "hey, we have these other options available. here's how to use them"
  - *What does Veterans' education assistance based on your own service mean?*
    - Could mean GI Bill. Could also mean education benefits I may have received while in active service. educational assistance program that allowed us up to $4,000 per year for classes. Not sure entirely. GI Bill, post 9-11 GI Bill. could be a little clearer. maybe I'm going in the wrong direction, I don't know.
  - *were you familiar with chapter 31?*
    - No. Pretty sure that's what we're applying for - the voc rehab stuff, chapter 31.
    - *Is that confusing?*
      - Think that's fine. you may have known it as a different name. I've spoken to some people who say "have you applied for such and such benefits" and I say "i don't know" - then realize "oh, I'm applying for those benefits"
    - *What other questions would you expect*
      - Disability rating, discharge type, address to see where the nearest site will be for you, currently employed or in college...
    - *4 - military history*
      - Yeah, well, it's a little more in depth. I knew I was going to have to put branch, but the service start date and end date… yeah, kind of what I was expecting.
      - *Do you have service start and end dates available?*
        - Don't know mine. Obviously the DD214 has it. That's a little tricky because if you have multiple periods of service, you have multiple DD214s. I don't have it readily available. Honestly I wouldn't know where to go to look for them other than pulling my DD214s out. 
      - *what would you do if you had multiple?*
        - Put in start date when you started any kind of service and end date when you finished the last one
        - *Add another service period*
          - What it should do is take those same questions and duplicate those questions. Any time you hit add another service date it should do that
    - *5.1 - contact info*
      - yeah, I'd expect this. get you to the closest counselor for you. Having done this through eBenefits, I know basically that you get something in the mail saying "hey". so they have to pull that info from somewhere, I imagine they get that from the application
    - *5.1*
      - yeah, I did notice that. maybe next step is 5.2 phone number and email address or something like that.
    - *why do you think they broke it into multiple steps*
      - don't know, maybe they wanted to keep the pages short and simple for people and keep people going through it.
    - *5.2 - is this what you expected*
      - Yeah, this is what I was thinking, phone and email address.  
- *Why is the VA asking for this information?*
- *Do you have all the information you need to successfully apply for VR&E counseling?* 
- *Is there anything you see here that is confusing to you?*

**_Review page_**
- *How would you review the information you've entered?*
  - With a lot of applications, they allow you the ability to review. If you click the little plus marks, you can review all the info you put in there. I'd imagine if you think there's a mistake, you can change those answers. 
- *What would you do if something was incorrect?*
  - Click on the plus mark. You can hit edit if you messed something up. one of two things will happen. it will let you edit in that particular spot, or it will take you back to that step.
- *would you read the privacy policy before accepting?*
  - I wouldn't. if we read all the privacy policies before we hit accept… well, we should, but we'd be still reading right now.
- *(after hitting edit button) is that what you expected would happen?*
- *Do you know what happens after you hit submit?*
  - If I didn't check the box, it would make me check it, but once the box is checked, I'd expect it to get sent off to whatever counselor's out there, and it would tell you the person reading your app will get in touch within _ business days. May get an email or someone may call you. some communication like that.

**_Confirmation page_**
- Yeah, it says they may contact you, pretty sure if you scoll down there would be more info. Shows what I submitted.
- *anything else you'd want to know now that you've submitted?*
  - Does it send you an email too with your confirmation number and what you applied to? Makes it easier to keep track of things, and it's readily searchable. In case I printed it out and I lose the page, if I have it in email, it's searchable.
- *What is the purpose of this page?*
- *What would you do with this information?*
- *What do you think will happen next?*


### Wrap-up

*Thank you so much for taking the time to speak with us! Is there anything else you'd like to share with the team building Vets.gov based on your experiences today?*

1. Looks really good. Almost intuitive. Hopefully that translates into better service for the guys out there who need it.