<h2>2.1.18 Notes on Notification Product Overview</h2>

Assumptions
Try to implement in MVP to inform product direction
Separate from profile / dashboard user access product
Notifications hairy, start with concise use case
-establish pattern out from this

VIC team
-working with stakeholder to make sure copy is accurate, no holes
-6 or 7 Dif types
-not everyone gets every types
-verified user, don’t qualify, uploaded bad photo, etc.
-using emails stored in salesforce


Considerations


VA spends 200 mil a year sending paper notifications

Can send then email, but could to text

Asyonchronous Submission

Not submit at all
-come back and submit again
-info is saved to “”


Competitive research
-Walgreens, CVS use text updates for Rx
-Mark as read
-Click “x” and it goes away
-Flag “yes” or “no”


Areas of exploration
-“Log in as guest”
-power user notifications -> daily digest
-facebook and usage like that has a place where you can come back and look at those


Questions:

What about the not-logged in users?
-types of notifications here?
-they can request email confirmation
-where?

Do we have product scope for the HCA use case?
-Scope Discovery: needs documentation?
-user stories
-expected outcome


How is data stored, processed?
What needs to happen to get us on path to MVP?
-time, scope

How / when does this fit in with roadmap
-what work needs to be done, with who?
What is everyone working on?
What are the alert types (email, text, etc)

What level, type of personalization do people want?
-what are the biggest use cases in the media that line up with the same user behavior, don’t?


Product Questions
What is the content of the notification?
-Status?
-What are types of statuses?
Can we simulate?
-Wait time?


Next Steps
I. User Notifications

Technical discovery - ben to pin
*questions here that feel like blockers
**Lihan has built some level of this**
- output: Tech discovery document
- define experimental scope
Schedule call with
- Lihan, 20 min
- Ben S and Nick S

2. Big Product Doc - Agreement on what we are testing
-research planning - what do we want to get out of this?
-success metrics
-what we intend to explore
-what are the whys for user and biggest pain points?

3. Design - next week
-mapping out flows

4. Pie in the sky doc - end-vision product concept compilation

5. Look through Frog’s stuff


Ben send Samara & team discovery scope issue for notifications
*Steve: “experiment template”

II. Personalization - marinate
-Steve working on docs
