# P1: Notable Prototype Usability Sessions with Veterans
- Date: July 21, 2025
- Moderator: Nina Anusavice
- Notetaker: Chantel Salmon



## Intro - 5 minutes 
1. Thanks for joining us today! My name is [moderator] and we have our notetaker on for taking notes. 
2. I also have a couple other colleagues in the Zoom waiting room who would like to observe and take notes. But before we get to them...
3. Today we're going to talk about answering health questionnaires that your VA physician may have sent you to prepare for your medical appointment. 
4. Before we start, a few things I want to mention: 
5. This entire session should take about [an hour]. I want to be sure not to keep you much longer, so I may occasionally prompt you with the next question or topic. 
6. In this session, we want to hear your honest opinions. We are not testing your ability. We just want to improve these tools to better meet Veteran's needs. I will not be offended by any opinions you express, and I welcome your feedback. 
7. You'll be interacting with a demo tool. This is a demo tool that may look and function like the live site but since it's a demo, none of your actions will affect your actual VA healthcare.
8. If for any reason and at any time you want to stop the session, please let me know.
9. Perigean did ask for your consent to allow observers, but I want to be sure before we get going. Are you okay with a couple of additional observers during this session? Yes, I have done this before with observers.
    - If no: Use Slack to kindly ask the observers to leave the Zoom.
    - If yes: Admit observers.
10. Then, ask the notetaker and observers to give a brief, camera-on, introduction, like their first name and position with VA.gov. (This is meant to humanize the interaction of observation for the participant)
11. Once complete ask notetaker and observers to turn off their cameras for remainder of the session to save bandwidth.
12. Are you comfortable if I record my screen and audio as we talk today? That’s fine.
13. We use the recordings to confirm that we have captured your opinions accurately. The recordings are destroyed after we complete the analysis, and none of your comments will be attributed to you directly. 
14. We either report findings out in groups (i.e., 5 out of 10 participants said this) or if we want to quote you directly, we take away any identifying information and give you a participant ID, like P7. Knowing that, are you comfortable if I record my screen and audio as we talk today?
    - If yes: Once I start recording, I am going to confirm that you are ok with me recording this session once more.

**Start recording.**

I have started recording. I'd like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record my screen and the audio as we talk today? Yes.


## First Task: Warm-up questions – 3 minutes 
1.	Have you ever filled health questionnaires that you received from the VA provider either at your appointment or through email or text? No. I have never received anything in the mail.
2.	How about at your appointment? Yes, it was verbally. You know they take the temperature and go through intimate questions. At first I thought that was a little personal, but as the years have gone along I realize that they are important for your health. 
    - If so, can you tell me about your experience?
    - If you received health questionnaires via email or text, what devices have you used to respond to the questionnaires?
        - Did you use any accessibility features that are native to the device such as the Voiceover or Zoom?
        - What was your experience using that device to respond to the questionnaire?
        - Did you experience difficulties with completing the questionnaire?


## Second Task: Log-in screen and Questionnaire Option List - 10 minutes 
**Notetaker:** Please note what browser is being used. There are 4 questionnaires; note which questionnaire branching logic they follow, if the questions and subsequent screens make sense, inconsistencies or awkward content, and any comments a participant shares without prompting from the moderator.
Laptop. 
1. Now, we are going to pretend that your doctor emailed you some health questionnaires for you to complete before your upcoming appointment.
2. Some of the questions will be familiar to you as you answered them before while others may not.
3. As you read each screen, please think aloud.
4. And I’ll ask you a few questions on each screen before you move on through the prototype.
5. Just a reminder-this just a prototype and your answer to questions will not affect you or your benefits in any way.
6. What device are you using today? Laptop.
7. In the Zoom chat, located at the X part of your screen, I’m going to send you a link to a questionnaire tool along with a fictitious date of birth and a last name, then I’ll ask to share screen, but don’t click on that link just yet.
8. Can you share your screen located at X. Struggled to get the link up when sharing screen.
9. I’m sending the links and credentials in your Zoom chat now. Do you see them? Great.
    - Notable link
    - DOB:
    - Last name:
10. Now, I’ll ask you to click on the link.


**User sees a Login Screen**     

11. What are your first impressions after opening the link?  I think they are all good headlines. I’ve been fortunate not to fall into that category. Sexual orientation I guess that’s important these days/ Tobacco pack yearly history, that looks strange. I’ve never seen it, you know Tobacco history would make more sense than tobacco pack yearly history. Toxic exposer screening, that’s a good one. I have been exposed to things myself and there are others that were exposed to burn pits, so I think this is important. 
12. Please answer the questions and move on.
Lets start and go right down the list. 


**User sees a Questionnaire Option List**   

13. Please read this screen out loud and tell me what you think of it before you answer.  
14. Are there any terms that seem unfamiliar or confusing to you?  
15. Okay, please move on.
    
**Moderator:** Participant may choose to select the questionnaires out of order listed.


## Third Task: Homelessness/Food insecurity – 10 minutes 
**Moderator:** On each subsequent screen, ask the following:
1.	Please read this screen out loud and tell me what you think of it before you answer. 
Homelessness is a tough one, because it’s supplying a veteran with a place to stay. Then there is the rest of it. A home is just a shell, then you have some financial issues, maybe some employment issues. You just can’t plunk someone into one of those veterans’ cubicles that some communities are building. I have never been in that position so I can’t relate to it. 
I think those are some good questions. 
2. Is anything unclear or unexpected? 
What is VHA? (Veterans Health Administration), oh ok I have never seen that before. (What would you like to see instead?) Just spell it out.
3. Okay, please move on.
   
**Moderator:** At the end of each questionnaire, ask the following:

4. On a scale from 1 to 5 (with 1 being very easy and 5 being very difficult), how easy or difficult was it to answer these questions about Homelessness/Food insecurity? It was easy so 1.
5. Were there any terms that seem unfamiliar or confusing to you? Was the VHA the only term that was confusing to you? Yes everything else was easy. 

## Fourth Task: Sexual Orientation – 5 minutes 
1.	Please read this screen out loud and tell me what you think of it before you answer.
Okay, annually… laughing. I guess the annual thing is like… Straight the second one. Queer click on that, lets click continue.
2. Is anything unclear or unexpected? Everything is expected and makes sense I guess the “don’t know” that’s scary and you’re dealing with veterans. A few years ago I would have thought that’s a little invasive but now I get that you need to delve in deeper now days.
3. Okay, please move on.
   
**Moderator:** At the end of each questionnaire, ask the following:

4. On a scale from 1 to 5 (with 1 being very easy and 5 being very difficult), how easy or difficult was it to answer these questions about Sexual Orientation? 1
5. Were there any terms that seem unfamiliar or confusing to you? No.


## Fifth Task: Tobacco Pack Year History– 10 minutes 
1.	Please read this screen out loud and tell me what you think of it before you answer.
I would click on I used cigarettes in the past but don’t use them. I would do greater than or equal to 15 years ago. The wording on that seems awkward. 
2. Is anything unclear or unexpected?
3. Okay, please move on.
   
**Moderator:** At the end of each questionnaire, ask the following:

4. On a scale from 1 to 5 (with 1 being very easy and 5 being very difficult), how easy or difficult was it to answer these questions about Tobacco Pack Year History?
5. Were there any terms that seem unfamiliar or confusing to you? No everything was clear.

## Sixth Task: Toxic Exposure – 10 minutes
1.	Please read this screen out loud and tell me what you think of it before you answer.
I love that term the “PACT ACT”. I think the screening every 5 years is great. Camp Lejune contaminated water exposure, when I saw that I was like you gotta be kidding me. 
It’s great. The military is now understanding that there are a lot of things out there that can be detrimental to military health. I appreciate this one. 
2. Is anything unclear or unexpected? No, the things that you have to put in there are like okay fine. The paper reduction. It always takes you twice as long. 
3. If you did not want to complete this set of questions, what would you do next? Click continue.
I don’t know what’s important, they are finding more and more that are dangerous. Click yes, I would choose agent orange. 
Choosing the middle link. (is this what you expected or would expect?) Yes, I have done all this on my own, I am registered with the agent orange system, and they update me, I get an email on things. I want to read a newspaper or newsletter where I am holding it. Emails or things online I don’t care for I would rather have a hard copy. 
What would you do next? I would like to click on the PACT Act and your benefits. I’ve gone through that and I think it’s informative. I applied for that and received extra benefits for that exposure. 
What would you do next? If that’s the bottom line then I am done, I don’t know if there is a continue button there. I think this was good. (Do you feel like this questionnaire was completed?) Yes.
4. Okay, please move on.
   
**Moderator:** At the end of each questionnaire, ask the following:

5. On a scale from 1 to 5 (with 1 being very easy and 5 being very difficult), how easy or difficult was it to answer these questions about Toxic Exposure?
6. Were there any terms that seem unfamiliar or confusing to you? “Life” looks weird on the screen. 

## Seventh Task: End of the Questionnaire Experience – 3 minutes
**Moderator:** At the end of the entire questionnaire experience, ask the following:
1. Can you tell me about your overall impression of this prototype? Easy. Easy to read and pretty simple to go through. It’s pointed questions, there’s not a lot of ambiguity there. 
2. What did you notice about the process of submitting the questionnaire?
3. What parts of the experience worked as you expected?
4. Were there any parts that didn't match what you thought would happen? It all made sense, and again very simple. All the questions are yes or no. If it’s yes then you define in detail. The only one that threw me was sexual orientation. 
5. Was there anything that stood out or that you weren't sure about?
6. If you had to step away and return later, what would you expect to happen? That my screen would go to screen saver and I would have to click on it to go back to the question. 
Let’s say you had to reopen the link, what would you expect to happen? I would like to be able to go back to where I was and not have to go back to the beginning. It would be nice to do that, but I know it doesn't happen with whoever is doing these things. 
7. How do you feel about using this type of tool for questions about personal health information; did you feel safe/secure? Yeah, I do. I can trust as much as I can trust with the VA. Stuff always happens, stuff goes wrong. Like I said ten years ago I would have felt different. 
One question they ask is if you have any fire arms. Me and some of the other guys are like oh come on that’s really nosey. But it is important now to know that information. 
8. What do you think about the length of time to complete the experience? Was it reasonable or unreasonable? It was reasonable, because it was very pointed questions to go through.
9. How does this prototype compare to other questionnaire platforms you have used in the past to fill out digital health questionnaires? The one with my civilian doctor goes into more detail about family history, travel history, and health. 
10. If you could change one thing about the entire questionnaire experience what would that be? I think I would add, family history. That’s a tough on because a lot of people may not know. Knowing family history would give the doctor something to know and work on.
11. And finally, if you had to interact with this prototype to answer questions about your healthcare on a particular cadence and consistent bases, how satisfied or dissatisfied would you be? I think it would be positive. Things change.
    - Very satisfied
12. Before we close, do you have any questions for me? No. I like this. I like doing this. I don’t like Zoom stuff, but I like doing these. I like to help my fellow veterans. Any way I can help the youngsters. I did an in-person study with observers watching in other rooms years ago. 
13. For those of you who are observing, do you have any questions to ask?


## Thank-You and Closing - 3 minutes 
1. Well, we really appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us today. Your feedback is so helpful to us as we continue to work on these experiences and make sure it really works for Veterans.
2. Before you go, I wanted to reiterate that everything we did today wasn’t real. The questions that you answered were not submitted to your provider or anywhere.
3. Lastly, Perigean will be sending you a thank you note with a little blurb that you can pass along to other Veterans you may know to provide them the chance to participate in future research studies.
4. Thank you so much again, and enjoy the rest of your day!


## Emergency Exit 
**Out of questions:** We have covered all the questions I have for you today. Thank you so much for your time and feedback.

**Blame technology:** I am so sorry, but I just learned that the thing I wanted to test with you today is unexpectedly not working. I apologize for the inconvenience and thank you for your time.
