# P10: Notable Prototype Usability Sessions with Veterans
- Date: July 25, 2025
- Moderator: Nina Anusavice
- Notetaker: Chantel Salmon



## Intro - 5 minutes 
1. Thanks for joining us today! My name is [moderator] and we have our notetaker on for taking notes. 
2. I also have a couple other colleagues in the Zoom waiting room who would like to observe and take notes. But before we get to them...
3. Today we're going to talk about answering health questionnaires that your VA physician may have sent you to prepare for your medical appointment. 
4. Before we start, a few things I want to mention: 
5. This entire session should take about [an hour]. I want to be sure not to keep you much longer, so I may occasionally prompt you with the next question or topic. 
6. In this session, we want to hear your honest opinions. We are not testing your ability. We just want to improve these tools to better meet Veteran's needs. I will not be offended by any opinions you express, and I welcome your feedback. 
7. You'll be interacting with a demo tool. This is a demo tool that may look and function like the live site but since it's a demo, none of your actions will affect your actual VA healthcare.
8. If for any reason and at any time you want to stop the session, please let me know.
9. Perigean did ask for your consent to allow observers, but I want to be sure before we get going. Are you okay with a couple of additional observers during this session?
    - If no: Use Slack to kindly ask the observers to leave the Zoom.
    - If yes: Admit observers.
10. Then, ask the notetaker and observers to give a brief, camera-on, introduction, like their first name and position with VA.gov. (This is meant to humanize the interaction of observation for the participant)
11. Once complete ask notetaker and observers to turn off their cameras for remainder of the session to save bandwidth.
12. Are you comfortable if I record my screen and audio as we talk today? Whatever you need to do is fine with me. 
13. We use the recordings to confirm that we have captured your opinions accurately. The recordings are destroyed after we complete the analysis, and none of your comments will be attributed to you directly. 
14. We either report findings out in groups (i.e., 5 out of 10 participants said this) or if we want to quote you directly, we take away any identifying information and give you a participant ID, like P7. Knowing that, are you comfortable if I record my screen and audio as we talk today?
    - If yes: Once I start recording, I am going to confirm that you are ok with me recording this session once more.

**Start recording.**

I have started recording. I'd like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record my screen and the audio as we talk today? 
Yes.

## First Task: Warm-up questions – 3 minutes 
1. Have you ever filled out health questionnaires that you received from the VA provider either at your appointment or through email or text? I go there so often, I can’t  honestly answer that by saying yes I filled out a form or questionnaire. 
Do you recall the VA sending you something via email? Yes, now that you mention it, I get some things from time to time about how your visit went. I generally don’t respond to those. 
    - If so, can you tell me about your experience? I didn’t fine any issues with it. 
    - If you received health questionnaires via email or text, what devices have you used to respond to the questionnaires?
        - Did you use any accessibility features that are native to the device such as the Voiceover or Zoom?
        - What was your experience using that device to respond to the questionnaire?
        - Did you experience difficulties with completing the questionnaire?


## Second Task: Log-in screen and Questionnaire Option List - 10 minutes 
**Notetaker:** Please note what browser is being used. There are 4 questionnaires; note which questionnaire branching logic they follow, if the questions and subsequent screens make sense, inconsistencies or awkward content, and any comments a participant shares without prompting from the moderator.
1. Now, we are going to pretend that your doctor emailed you some health questionnaires for you to complete before your upcoming appointment.
2. Some of the questions will be familiar to you as you answered them before while others may not.
3. As you read each screen, please think aloud.
4. And I’ll ask you a few questions on each screen before you move on through the prototype.
5. Just a reminder-this just a prototype and your answer to questions will not affect you or your benefits in any way.
6. What device are you using today?
7. In the Zoom chat, located at the X part of your screen, I’m going to send you a link to a questionnaire tool along with a fictitious date of birth and a last name, then I’ll ask to share screen, but don’t click on that link just yet.
8. Can you share your screen located at X. 
9. I’m sending the links and credentials in your Zoom chat now. Do you see them? Great.
    - Notable link
    - DOB:
    - Last name:
10. Now, I’ll ask you to click on the link.


**User sees a Login Screen**     

11. What are your first impressions after opening the link?  
12. Please answer the questions and move on.


**User sees a Questionnaire Option List**   

13. Please read this screen out loud and tell me what you think of it before you answer.  Is this what you expected to see? This is for an appointment coming up but may not be related. Okay so I would answer these questions thinking my doctor needs this prior to my appointment. It’s surprising, I am not homeless, I don’t know why he would need sexual orientation, I don’t use tobacco, but I was a smoker, and I do have toxic exposure. 
14. Are there any terms that seem unfamiliar or confusing to you?  
15. Okay, please move on.
    
**Moderator:** Participant may choose to select the questionnaires out of order listed.


## Third Task: Homelessness/Food insecurity – 10 minutes 
**Moderator:** On each subsequent screen, ask the following:
1. Please read this screen out loud and tell me what you think of it before you answer. I don’t think anyone would read this screen. I’m not homeless and would probably read the first line and click continue. 
2. Is anything unclear or unexpected? No
3. Okay, please move on.
   
**Moderator:** At the end of each questionnaire, ask the following:

4. On a scale from 1 to 5 (with 1 being very easy and 5 being very difficult), how easy or difficult was it to answer these questions about Homelessness/Food insecurity?
5. Were there any terms that seem unfamiliar or confusing to you?

## Fourth Task: Sexual Orientation – 5 minutes 
1. Please read this screen out loud and tell me what you think of it before you answer. I would hit straight.
2. Is anything unclear or unexpected? No
3. Okay, please move on.
   
**Moderator:** At the end of each questionnaire, ask the following:

4. On a scale from 1 to 5 (with 1 being very easy and 5 being very difficult), how easy or difficult was it to answer these questions about Sexual Orientation?
5. Were there any terms that seem unfamiliar or confusing to you?


## Fifth Task: Tobacco Pack Year History– 10 minutes 
1.	Please read this screen out loud and tell me what you think of it before you answer.
2.	I would click I’ve used cigarettes. I would take out the option to decline. The VA should have the right to know so they can treat you properly.
2. Is anything unclear or unexpected? 
3. Okay, please move on.
   
**Moderator:** At the end of each questionnaire, ask the following:

4. On a scale from 1 to 5 (with 1 being very easy and 5 being very difficult), how easy or difficult was it to answer these questions about Tobacco Pack Year History?
5. Were there any terms that seem unfamiliar or confusing to you?

## Sixth Task: Toxic Exposure – 10 minutes
1. Please read this screen out loud and tell me what you think of it before you answer.
2. Is anything unclear or unexpected? Participant struggled to read “experienced”, expressed he has issues with reading and the only way to improve this would be to remove the word. It is an issues specific to him. 
3. If you did not want to complete this set of questions, what would you do next?
4. Okay, please move on.
   
**Moderator:** At the end of each questionnaire, ask the following:

5. On a scale from 1 to 5 (with 1 being very easy and 5 being very difficult), how easy or difficult was it to answer these questions about Homelessness/Food insecurity?
6. Were there any terms that seem unfamiliar or confusing to you?
The screen froze and the participant clicked the back button. Upon returning to the sign in screen, he states he would quit. He stated the completed the survey and would not go back in. 
## Seventh Task: End of the Questionnaire Experience – 3 minutes
**Moderator:** At the end of the entire questionnaire experience, ask the following:
1.	Can you tell me about your overall impression of this prototype? It was easy to move through. I did not line the option not to answer, I think the veteran should answer the questions the VA has a right to know. 
I didn’t like the ending and how it froze up an didn’t work. 
2. What did you notice about the process of submitting the questionnaire?
3. What parts of the experience worked as you expected?
4. Were there any parts that didn't match what you thought would happen?
5. Was there anything that stood out or that you weren't sure about?
6. If you had to step away and return later, what would you expect to happen? I would expect it to go to where we started and I would open the screen to the questionnaire. 
7. How do you feel about using this type of tool for questions about personal health information; did you feel safe/secure? Well the VA is pretty secure, I haven’t had any issues giving them information. 
8. What do you think about the length of time to complete the experience? Was it reasonable or unreasonable? I think it was reasonable. 
9. How does this prototype compare to other questionnaire platforms you have used in the past to fill out digital health questionnaires? I would think this is a little faster moving from screen to screen. 
10. If you could change one thing about the entire questionnaire experience what would that be?  Like I said I would remove the option to not answer. 
11. And finally, if you had to interact with this prototype to answer questions about your healthcare on a particular cadence and consistent bases, how satisfied or dissatisfied would you be? Very satisfied. I was satisfied using the tool. 
    - Very dissatisfied
    - Dissatisfied
    - Neither dissatisfied, nor satisfied
    - Satisfied
    - Very satisfied
12. Before we close, do you have any questions for me?
13. For those of you who are observing, do you have any questions to ask?


## Thank-You and Closing - 3 minutes 
1. Well, we really appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us today. Your feedback is so helpful to us as we continue to work on these experiences and make sure it really works for Veterans.
2. Before you go, I wanted to reiterate that everything we did today wasn’t real. The questions that you answered were not submitted to your provider or anywhere.
3. Lastly, Perigean will be sending you a thank you note with a little blurb that you can pass along to other Veterans you may know to provide them the chance to participate in future research studies.
4. Thank you so much again, and enjoy the rest of your day!


## Emergency Exit 
**Out of questions:** We have covered all the questions I have for you today. Thank you so much for your time and feedback.

**Blame technology:** I am so sorry, but I just learned that the thing I wanted to test with you today is unexpectedly not working. I apologize for the inconvenience and thank you for your time.
