# P3: Notable Prototype Usability Sessions with Veterans
- Date: July 21, 2025
- Moderator: Nina Anusavice
- Notetaker: Alyssa Li

## Intro - 5 minutes 
1. Thanks for joining us today! My name is [moderator] and we have our notetaker on for taking notes. 
2. I also have a couple other colleagues in the Zoom waiting room who would like to observe and take notes. But before we get to them...
3. Today we're going to talk about answering health questionnaires that your VA physician may have sent you to prepare for your medical appointment. 
4. Before we start, a few things I want to mention: 
5. This entire session should take about [an hour]. I want to be sure not to keep you much longer, so I may occasionally prompt you with the next question or topic. 
6. In this session, we want to hear your honest opinions. We are not testing your ability. We just want to improve these tools to better meet Veteran's needs. I will not be offended by any opinions you express, and I welcome your feedback. 
7. You'll be interacting with a demo tool. This is a demo tool that may look and function like the live site but since it's a demo, none of your actions will affect your actual VA healthcare.
8. If for any reason and at any time you want to stop the session, please let me know.
9. Perigean did ask for your consent to allow observers, but I want to be sure before we get going. Are you okay with a couple of additional observers during this session?
    - If no: Use Slack to kindly ask the observers to leave the Zoom.
    - If yes: Admit observers.
10. Then, ask the notetaker and observers to give a brief, camera-on, introduction, like their first name and position with VA.gov. (This is meant to humanize the interaction of observation for the participant)
11. Once complete ask notetaker and observers to turn off their cameras for remainder of the session to save bandwidth.
12. Are you comfortable if I record my screen and audio as we talk today?
13. We use the recordings to confirm that we have captured your opinions accurately. The recordings are destroyed after we complete the analysis, and none of your comments will be attributed to you directly. 
14. We either report findings out in groups (i.e., 5 out of 10 participants said this) or if we want to quote you directly, we take away any identifying information and give you a participant ID, like P7. Knowing that, are you comfortable if I record my screen and audio as we talk today?
    - If yes: Once I start recording, I am going to confirm that you are ok with me recording this session once more.

**Start recording.**

I have started recording. I'd like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record my screen and the audio as we talk today? 


## First Task: Warm-up questions – 3 minutes 
1. Have you ever filled health questionnaires that you received from the VA provider either at your appointment or through email or text?
    - If so, can you tell me about your experience?
    - If you received health questionnaires via email or text, what devices have you used to respond to the questionnaires?
        - Did you use any accessibility features that are native to the device such as the Voiceover or Zoom?
        - What was your experience using that device to respond to the questionnaire?
        - Did you experience difficulties with completing the questionnaire?

  
**Has participated in usability test before. Said lots of times they get canceled -- but says it's ok because she still gets paid.**

**Has gotten questions through regular mail before. Has also gotten them through email, says they are easy to respond to. Uses accessibility features, it's easy unless she has to get on zoom.**



## Second Task: Log-in screen and Questionnaire Option List - 10 minutes 
**Notetaker:** Please note what browser is being used. There are 4 questionnaires; note which questionnaire branching logic they follow, if the questions and subsequent screens make sense, inconsistencies or awkward content, and any comments a participant shares without prompting from the moderator.  


**Had trouble joining zoom, had to have someone help them join. Calling in from iPhone, does not have video on.**

**Had trouble finding share screen button, but was able to follow directions to find it.**

  

1. Now, we are going to pretend that your doctor emailed you some health questionnaires for you to complete before your upcoming appointment.
2. Some of the questions will be familiar to you as you answered them before while others may not.
3. As you read each screen, please think aloud.
4. And I’ll ask you a few questions on each screen before you move on through the prototype.
5. Just a reminder-this just a prototype and your answer to questions will not affect you or your benefits in any way.
6. What device are you using today?
7. In the Zoom chat, located at the X part of your screen, I’m going to send you a link to a questionnaire tool along with a fictitious date of birth and a last name, then I’ll ask to share screen, but don’t click on that link just yet.
8. Can you share your screen located at X. 
9. I’m sending the links and credentials in your Zoom chat now. Do you see them? Great.
    - Notable link
    - DOB:
    - Last name:
10. Now, I’ll ask you to click on the link.


**User sees a Login Screen**     

**Listened to moderator's directions in order to fill out DOB and Last name. Had no trouble entering information.**

11. What are your first impressions after opening the link?  
12. Please answer the questions and move on.


**User sees a Questionnaire Option List**   

13. Please read this screen out loud and tell me what you think of it before you answer.  
14. Are there any terms that seem unfamiliar or confusing to you?  
15. Okay, please move on.

**No questions on this screen. Chose Homelessness screen first**

    
**Moderator:** Participant may choose to select the questionnaires out of order listed.


## Third Task: Homelessness/Food insecurity – 10 minutes 
**Moderator:** On each subsequent screen, ask the following:
1. Please read this screen out loud and tell me what you think of it before you answer.
2. Is anything unclear or unexpected?
3. Okay, please move on.

**Skipped over the first page with the introductory text, including a second time when asked to go back and make sure to read each screen out loud.**
**First question is "very clear". Reads through questions and their options quickly.**
**Reads through page about VHA FSO. They didn't know that the VA helped with food access. Has a disabled son and has been using his food stamps.**

**On referral page, said they wanted to select "Help obtaining food stamps..." but ended up selecting another option that they were also interested in. Maybe they didn't know they could select multiple options? Or they thought they shouldn't select "help optaining food stamps / meels on wheels" because they weren't sure if they qualified. They said the page is good because it's clear and giving them help.**

**Accidentally quit screen sharing, took a few minutes to get it back. Found it difficult to navigate from Zoom app to whatever browser the questionnaire was on. Got back to the browser by re-clicking the link in the Zoom chat.**

   
**Moderator:** At the end of each questionnaire, ask the following:

4. On a scale from 1 to 5 (with 1 being very easy and 5 being very difficult), how easy or difficult was it to answer these questions about Homelessness/Food insecurity?
5. Were there any terms that seem unfamiliar or confusing to you?

## Fourth Task: Sexual Orientation – 5 minutes 
1. Please read this screen out loud and tell me what you think of it before you answer.
2. Is anything unclear or unexpected?
3. Okay, please move on.

**Selected lesbian, gay, or homosexual. Said it was clear and easy.**
**Asked "Why did it go back to the beginning? Why did my answer take me back to the original page? The other questionnaire asked multiple questions. This one only had 1 question." Was expecting multiple questions.**
   
**Moderator:** At the end of each questionnaire, ask the following:

4. On a scale from 1 to 5 (with 1 being very easy and 5 being very difficult), how easy or difficult was it to answer these questions about Sexual Orientation?
6. Were there any terms that seem unfamiliar or confusing to you?

**Rated it 1, very easy**


## Fifth Task: Tobacco Pack Year History – 10 minutes 
1. Please read this screen out loud and tell me what you think of it before you answer.
2. Is anything unclear or unexpected?
3. Okay, please move on.

**Quickly selected "I've never smoked...". Says they don't understand why the option says "I've never smoked or have smoked fewer than 100 cigarettes in my lifetime" because they have never smoked ever.**
   
**Moderator:** At the end of each questionnaire, ask the following:

4. On a scale from 1 to 5 (with 1 being very easy and 5 being very difficult), how easy or difficult was it to answer these questions about Tobacco Pack Year History?

**Said they had *mixed emotions*, but still selected 1.**  
**Zoom stopped sharing immediately after they finished the question. But they were still seeing the questionnaire. Losing the share screen is "the only part that's difficult. The questions are easy".**
**Might have bad interet connection since it takes 30-50 seconds for the share screen to load each time**

6. Were there any terms that seem unfamiliar or confusing to you?

## Sixth Task: Toxic Exposure – 10 minutes
1. Please read this screen out loud and tell me what you think of it before you answer.
2. Is anything unclear or unexpected?
3. If you did not want to complete this set of questions, what would you do next?
4. Okay, please move on.

**Says everything is clear on page with introductory text.**    
**Answered "I don't know" for toxic exposure, and then "No questions at this time"**  
**After reaching the last page, says they would close the window and do nothing else.**

   
**Moderator:** At the end of each questionnaire, ask the following:

5. On a scale from 1 to 5 (with 1 being very easy and 5 being very difficult), how easy or difficult was it to answer these questions about Toxic Exposure?
6. Were there any terms that seem unfamiliar or confusing to you?

**Easy, easy questions**

## Seventh Task: End of the Questionnaire Experience – 3 minutes
**Moderator:** At the end of the entire questionnaire experience, ask the following:
1. Can you tell me about your overall impression of this prototype? **Questions were easy, getting back and forth with the computer was difficult**
2. What did you notice about the process of submitting the questionnaire?
3. What parts of the experience worked as you expected?
4. Were there any parts that didn't match what you thought would happen?
5. Was there anything that stood out or that you weren't sure about? **Wasn't sure how to answer toxic exposure question. They didn't know if they had a toxic exposure and "had never paid attention to that"**
6. If you had to step away and return later, what would you expect to happen? **Getting in would probably be diffcult. Would be frustrated, and would probably give up doing it. Was already having trouble today getting in while having help, without help "99.999% chance would give up". "If I had had the choice, I would like to get it by mail"**
7. How do you feel about using this type of tool for questions about personal health information; did you feel safe/secure? **Feels comfortable, have nothing to hide. "You guys want to help every veteran, so I am just being honest**
8. What do you think about the length of time to complete the experience? Was it reasonable or unreasonable? **Had to go "back and forth, back and forth". Would rather have all the questions in one page**
9. How does this prototype compare to other questionnaire platforms you have used in the past to fill out digital health questionnaires?
11. If you could change one thing about the entire questionnaire experience what would that be? **Just do everything at once, not having to go back and forth (with the questions, and also going back to zoom)**
12. And finally, if you had to interact with this prototype to answer questions about your healthcare on a particular cadence and consistent bases, how satisfied or dissatisfied would you be?
    - Very dissatisfied
    - Dissatisfied
    - Neither dissatisfied, nor satisfied
    - Satisfied
    - Very satisfied
13. Before we close, do you have any questions for me?
14. For those of you who are observing, do you have any questions to ask? **How can I get help with food stamps and budgeting? Moderator to follow up and relay information via Perigean**


## Thank-You and Closing - 3 minutes 
1. Well, we really appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us today. Your feedback is so helpful to us as we continue to work on these experiences and make sure it really works for Veterans.
2. Before you go, I wanted to reiterate that everything we did today wasn’t real. The questions that you answered were not submitted to your provider or anywhere.
3. Lastly, Perigean will be sending you a thank you note with a little blurb that you can pass along to other Veterans you may know to provide them the chance to participate in future research studies.
4. Thank you so much again, and enjoy the rest of your day!


## Emergency Exit 
**Out of questions:** We have covered all the questions I have for you today. Thank you so much for your time and feedback.

**Blame technology:** I am so sorry, but I just learned that the thing I wanted to test with you today is unexpectedly not working. I apologize for the inconvenience and thank you for your time.
