# P6: Notable Prototype Usability Sessions with Veterans
- Date: July 23, 2025
- Moderator: Nina Anusavice
- Notetaker: Chantel Salmon



## Intro - 5 minutes 
1. Thanks for joining us today! My name is [moderator] and we have our notetaker on for taking notes. 
2. I also have a couple other colleagues in the Zoom waiting room who would like to observe and take notes. But before we get to them...
3. Today we're going to talk about answering health questionnaires that your VA physician may have sent you to prepare for your medical appointment. 
4. Before we start, a few things I want to mention: 
5. This entire session should take about [an hour]. I want to be sure not to keep you much longer, so I may occasionally prompt you with the next question or topic. 
6. In this session, we want to hear your honest opinions. We are not testing your ability. We just want to improve these tools to better meet Veteran's needs. I will not be offended by any opinions you express, and I welcome your feedback. 
7. You'll be interacting with a demo tool. This is a demo tool that may look and function like the live site but since it's a demo, none of your actions will affect your actual VA healthcare.
8. If for any reason and at any time you want to stop the session, please let me know.
9. Perigean did ask for your consent to allow observers, but I want to be sure before we get going. Are you okay with a couple of additional observers during this session?
    - If no: Use Slack to kindly ask the observers to leave the Zoom.
    - If yes: Admit observers.
10. Then, ask the notetaker and observers to give a brief, camera-on, introduction, like their first name and position with VA.gov. (This is meant to humanize the interaction of observation for the participant)
11. Once complete ask notetaker and observers to turn off their cameras for remainder of the session to save bandwidth.
12. Are you comfortable if I record my screen and audio as we talk today?
13. We use the recordings to confirm that we have captured your opinions accurately. The recordings are destroyed after we complete the analysis, and none of your comments will be attributed to you directly. 
14. We either report findings out in groups (i.e., 5 out of 10 participants said this) or if we want to quote you directly, we take away any identifying information and give you a participant ID, like P7. Knowing that, are you comfortable if I record my screen and audio as we talk today?
    - If yes: Once I start recording, I am going to confirm that you are ok with me recording this session once more.

**Start recording.**

I have started recording. I'd like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record my screen and the audio as we talk today?  Sure


## First Task: Warm-up questions – 3 minutes 
1. Have you ever filled health questionnaires that you received from the VA provider either at your appointment or through email or text? Yeah.
    - If so, can you tell me about your experience? They’re usually stupid. They ask a bunch of questions that are no brainers. I feel like the questions degrade a little bit. 
Is that a paper survey that you received in the mail? I don’t get paper they have all been electronic. They are usually easy to deal with. 
    - If you received health questionnaires via email or text, what devices have you used to respond to the questionnaires?
        - Did you use any accessibility features that are native to the device such as the Voiceover or Zoom?
        - What was your experience using that device to respond to the questionnaire?
        - Did you experience difficulties with completing the questionnaire?


## Second Task: Log-in screen and Questionnaire Option List - 10 minutes 
**Notetaker:** Please note what browser is being used. There are 4 questionnaires; note which questionnaire branching logic they follow, if the questions and subsequent screens make sense, inconsistencies or awkward content, and any comments a participant shares without prompting from the moderator.
1. Now, we are going to pretend that your doctor emailed you some health questionnaires for you to complete before your upcoming appointment.
2. Some of the questions will be familiar to you as you answered them before while others may not.
3. As you read each screen, please think aloud.
4. And I’ll ask you a few questions on each screen before you move on through the prototype.
5. Just a reminder-this just a prototype and your answer to questions will not affect you or your benefits in any way.
6. What device are you using today?
7. In the Zoom chat, located at the X part of your screen, I’m going to send you a link to a questionnaire tool along with a fictitious date of birth and a last name, then I’ll ask to share screen, but don’t click on that link just yet.
8. Can you share your screen located at X. 
9. I’m sending the links and credentials in your Zoom chat now. Do you see them? Great.
    - Notable link
    - DOB:
    - Last name:
10. Now, I’ll ask you to click on the link.


**User sees a Login Screen**     

11. What are your first impressions after opening the link?  
12. Please answer the questions and move on.


**User sees a Questionnaire Option List**   

13. Please read this screen out loud and tell me what you think of it before you answer.  
14. Are there any terms that seem unfamiliar or confusing to you?  
15. Okay, please move on.
    
**Moderator:** Participant may choose to select the questionnaires out of order listed.


## Third Task: Homelessness/Food insecurity – 10 minutes 
**Moderator:** On each subsequent screen, ask the following:
1.	Please read this screen out loud and tell me what you think of it before you answer.
2.	I would put them in a different order. Sexual orientation is a woke question and should be at the bottom. 
2. Is anything unclear or unexpected?
3. Okay, please move on.
   
**Moderator:** At the end of each questionnaire, ask the following:

3.	On a scale from 1 to 5 (with 1 being very easy and 5 being very difficult), how easy or difficult was it to answer these questions about Homelessness/Food insecurity?
4.	That makes sense. Chose no just to see where it goes. That makes sense. 
I would think that clicking other would allow a box to explain what other means.  A lot of people that are street homeless don’t want to talk to a social worker, but this makes sense. The way it is written I like what it says, I don’t think it can be changed. The box is large for 120 characters, but if giving contact information that makes sense.
Why would you like a smaller box? It takes up a lot of space, It looks like you are expecting more information then what I want to give you.
I would put a header on this page. The previous pages were about homelessness; this page is about food security. I would just put a header to identify that this is different. That makes sense. Trying to move on without a response. I like that it wants a response I can’t skip the question. 
5. Were there any terms that seem unfamiliar or confusing to you? No. 

If I did not want to answer the other questions there should be a way to not answer the questions. I don’t smoke and I am secure in my sexual orientation so I would like to go to the next step. 
## Fourth Task: Sexual Orientation – 5 minutes 
1.	Please read this screen out loud and tell me what you think of it before you answer.
Going back and visiting this. He dislikes the question and disagrees with it. Some people in this group would say you don’t have enough options listed. Another option would be to be able to add additional information.
2. Is anything unclear or unexpected?
3. Okay, please move on.
   
**Moderator:** At the end of each questionnaire, ask the following:

4. On a scale from 1 to 5 (with 1 being very easy and 5 being very difficult), how easy or difficult was it to answer these questions about Sexual Orientation?
5. Were there any terms that seem unfamiliar or confusing to you?


## Fifth Task: Tobacco Pack Year History– 10 minutes 
1. Please read this screen out loud and tell me what you think of it before you answer.
2. Is anything unclear or unexpected? No that’s clear.
3. Okay, please move on.
   
**Moderator:** At the end of each questionnaire, ask the following:

4. On a scale from 1 to 5 (with 1 being very easy and 5 being very difficult), how easy or difficult was it to answer these questions about Tobacco Pack Year History?
5. Were there any terms that seem unfamiliar or confusing to you?
That makes sense you are gathering generic information, I guess it follows. 
Let’s say this isn’t generic and your doctor is going to use this for your health? I strongly object to the sexual orientation question. Tobacco use that was so long ago it doesn’t matter at this point.
What would you have liked to see here? I think for what they’re trying to gather this is sufficient obviously you don’t want to ask political questions. That’s a whole other can of worms.
## Sixth Task: Toxic Exposure – 10 minutes
Participant started here. 
1.	Please read this screen out loud and tell me what you think of it before you answer.
That’s sensible, that one is also sensible. Checking yes for radiation. It’s following along nicely. It comes up with websites. Okay that page makes sense. Giving the information that you need if you want to follow up. The follow up questions are good questions. 
2.	Is anything unclear or unexpected?
3.	A broader definition of the registry question. 

3. If you did not want to complete this set of questions, what would you do next?
4. Okay, please move on.
   This makes sense. This flows much better than the last study I did. 
**Moderator:** At the end of each questionnaire, ask the following:

5. On a scale from 1 to 5 (with 1 being very easy and 5 being very difficult), how easy or difficult was it to answer these questions about Toxic Exposure?
6. Were there any terms that seem unfamiliar or confusing to you? 
*A broader definition of the registry question. *


## Seventh Task: End of the Questionnaire Experience – 3 minutes
**Moderator:** At the end of the entire questionnaire experience, ask the following:
What did you think of the prototype, the flow? The flow follow a, then b, then c. There was no back tracking. I didn’t try it but I noticed the edit button, so maybe if I needed to edit some things I could. Having the ability to review your answers before you submit would be good. It went from answering the questions to okay bye. I would like to see a review. 
1. Can you tell me about your overall impression of this prototype?
2. What did you notice about the process of submitting the questionnaire?
3. What parts of the experience worked as you expected?
4. Were there any parts that didn't match what you thought would happen?
5. Was there anything that stood out or that you weren't sure about?
6. If you had to step away and return later, what would you expect to happen?
I think an option to save and return. Where you can stop what you’re doing save it and be able to log back in to finish the survey. A pause button if you will.
How do you feel about using this tool with questionnaires? I think it would work, it’s straightforward. 
7. How do you feel about using this type of tool for questions about personal health information; did you feel safe/secure? Because it didn’t ask for identifying info up front I would am going not say yes. 
8. What do you think about the length of time to complete the experience? Was it reasonable or unreasonable?
9. How does this prototype compare to other questionnaire platforms you have used in the past to fill out digital health questionnaires? It is easier to maneuver than the pharmacy website that is for sure. The mechanics are easier. 
10. If you could change one thing about the entire questionnaire experience what would that be? I don’t think there’s much. I think the things I noted going through it. Generally, I think it’s close to ready for prime time.

How would you rate this prototype? 1.5 very satisfied. There are a few things that need to be cleared up. The mandatory response that was good. The one that didn’t require extra information when I click it that’s a minor adjustment. 
11. And finally, if you had to interact with this prototype to answer questions about your healthcare on a particular cadence and consistent bases, how satisfied or dissatisfied would you be?
    - Very dissatisfied
    - Dissatisfied
    - Neither dissatisfied, nor satisfied
    - Satisfied
    - Very satisfied
12. Before we close, do you have any questions for me?
13. For those of you who are observing, do you have any questions to ask?


## Thank-You and Closing - 3 minutes 
1. Well, we really appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us today. Your feedback is so helpful to us as we continue to work on these experiences and make sure it really works for Veterans.
2. Before you go, I wanted to reiterate that everything we did today wasn’t real. The questions that you answered were not submitted to your provider or anywhere.
3. Lastly, Perigean will be sending you a thank you note with a little blurb that you can pass along to other Veterans you may know to provide them the chance to participate in future research studies.
4. Thank you so much again, and enjoy the rest of your day!


## Emergency Exit 
**Out of questions:** We have covered all the questions I have for you today. Thank you so much for your time and feedback.

**Blame technology:** I am so sorry, but I just learned that the thing I wanted to test with you today is unexpectedly not working. I apologize for the inconvenience and thank you for your time.
