#  P9: Notable Prototype Usability Sessions with Veterans
- Date: July 24, 2025
- Moderator: Nina Anusavice
- Notetaker: Chantel Salmon



## Intro - 5 minutes 
1. Thanks for joining us today! My name is [moderator] and we have our notetaker on for taking notes. 
2. I also have a couple other colleagues in the Zoom waiting room who would like to observe and take notes. But before we get to them...
3. Today we're going to talk about answering health questionnaires that your VA physician may have sent you to prepare for your medical appointment. 
4. Before we start, a few things I want to mention: 
5. This entire session should take about [an hour]. I want to be sure not to keep you much longer, so I may occasionally prompt you with the next question or topic. 
6. In this session, we want to hear your honest opinions. We are not testing your ability. We just want to improve these tools to better meet Veteran's needs. I will not be offended by any opinions you express, and I welcome your feedback. 
7. You'll be interacting with a demo tool. This is a demo tool that may look and function like the live site but since it's a demo, none of your actions will affect your actual VA healthcare.
8. If for any reason and at any time you want to stop the session, please let me know.
9. Perigean did ask for your consent to allow observers, but I want to be sure before we get going. Are you okay with a couple of additional observers during this session?
    - If no: Use Slack to kindly ask the observers to leave the Zoom.
    - If yes: Admit observers.
10. Then, ask the notetaker and observers to give a brief, camera-on, introduction, like their first name and position with VA.gov. (This is meant to humanize the interaction of observation for the participant)
11. Once complete ask notetaker and observers to turn off their cameras for remainder of the session to save bandwidth.
12. Are you comfortable if I record my screen and audio as we talk today? Yes
13. We use the recordings to confirm that we have captured your opinions accurately. The recordings are destroyed after we complete the analysis, and none of your comments will be attributed to you directly. 
14. We either report findings out in groups (i.e., 5 out of 10 participants said this) or if we want to quote you directly, we take away any identifying information and give you a participant ID, like P7. Knowing that, are you comfortable if I record my screen and audio as we talk today?
    - If yes: Once I start recording, I am going to confirm that you are ok with me recording this session once more.

**Start recording.**

I have started recording. I'd like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record my screen and the audio as we talk today? Yes


## First Task: Warm-up questions – 3 minutes 
1. Have you ever filled health questionnaires that you received from the VA provider either at your appointment or through email or text? Yes
    - If so, can you tell me about your experience? Received through email. Some of it was mundane, unnecessary, I got bored after a while. It was asking questions it should already know, I have low tolerance for those questions.
    - If you received health questionnaires via email or text, what devices have you used to respond to the questionnaires? I have done both. It was not that easy on a mobile device because it’s small, it’s easier on a laptop and that’s because of visibility. I have to enlarge my screen on my phone and that is not very practical. 
        - Did you use any accessibility features that are native to the device such as the Voiceover or Zoom?
        - What was your experience using that device to respond to the questionnaire?
        - Did you experience difficulties with completing the questionnaire?


## Second Task: Log-in screen and Questionnaire Option List - 10 minutes 
**Notetaker:** Please note what browser is being used. There are 4 questionnaires; note which questionnaire branching logic they follow, if the questions and subsequent screens make sense, inconsistencies or awkward content, and any comments a participant shares without prompting from the moderator.
1. Now, we are going to pretend that your doctor emailed you some health questionnaires for you to complete before your upcoming appointment.
2. Some of the questions will be familiar to you as you answered them before while others may not.
3. As you read each screen, please think aloud.
4. And I’ll ask you a few questions on each screen before you move on through the prototype.
5. Just a reminder-this just a prototype and your answer to questions will not affect you or your benefits in any way.
6. What device are you using today? Laptop, that was what I was instructed to use. 
7. In the Zoom chat, located at the X part of your screen, I’m going to send you a link to a questionnaire tool along with a fictitious date of birth and a last name, then I’ll ask to share screen, but don’t click on that link just yet.
8. Can you share your screen located at X. 
9. I’m sending the links and credentials in your Zoom chat now. Do you see them? Great.
    - Notable link
    - DOB:
    - Last name:
10. Now, I’ll ask you to click on the link.


**User sees a Login Screen**     

11. What are your first impressions after opening the link?  Where am I going? Is this a VA site? 
So it doesn’t feel like a VA site to you? Correct it does not. 
12. Please answer the questions and move on.


**User sees a Questionnaire Option List**   

13. Please read this screen out loud and tell me what you think of it before you answer.  Please Answer a few questions to help the VA better understand your medical needs. Right there I signed in so I know it’s the VA and they should know who I am. There is no need for them to know my sexual orientation. I have already answered questions about tobacco in the past. Sexual orientation has nothing to do with anything. 
14. Are there any terms that seem unfamiliar or confusing to you?  
15. Okay, please move on.
    
**Moderator:** Participant may choose to select the questionnaires out of order listed.


## Third Task: Homelessness/Food insecurity – 10 minutes 
**Moderator:** On each subsequent screen, ask the following:
1.	Please read this screen out loud and tell me what you think of it before you answer.
The past question asked if I was homeless and the second question asked if I live in a stable house. It should say since you became homeless where are you staying, on the street in a shelter? That question would make more sense. 
What would be the best way to reach you? That’s a stupid question I am homeless I don’t have a phone or email. 
This is a bunch of mumbo jumbo.
How are you going to get food stamps if you are homeless. I am assuming that I have nom money, or way to get any of these things. 
2. Is anything unclear or unexpected?
3. Okay, please move on.
   
**Moderator:** At the end of each questionnaire, ask the following:

4. On a scale from 1 to 5 (with 1 being very easy and 5 being very difficult), how easy or difficult was it to answer these questions about Homelessness/Food insecurity?
5. Were there any terms that seem unfamiliar or confusing to you?
I would leave the questionnaire at this point I answered the homelessness questionnaire the other stuff I would not answer. 
## Fourth Task: Sexual Orientation – 5 minutes 

1. Please read this screen out loud and tell me what you think of it before you answer.
2. Is anything unclear or unexpected?
3. Okay, please move on.
   
**Moderator:** At the end of each questionnaire, ask the following:

4. On a scale from 1 to 5 (with 1 being very easy and 5 being very difficult), how easy or difficult was it to answer these questions about Homelessness/Food insecurity?
5. Were there any terms that seem unfamiliar or confusing to you?


## Fifth Task: Tobacco Pack Year History– 10 minutes 
1. Please read this screen out loud and tell me what you think of it before you answer.
2. Is anything unclear or unexpected?
3. Okay, please move on.
   
**Moderator:** At the end of each questionnaire, ask the following:

4. On a scale from 1 to 5 (with 1 being very easy and 5 being very difficult), how easy or difficult was it to answer these questions about Homelessness/Food insecurity?
5. Were there any terms that seem unfamiliar or confusing to you?

## Sixth Task: Toxic Exposure – 10 minutes
1.	Please read this screen out loud and tell me what you think of it before you answer.
First screen: It’s informative to me. 
I would investigate one of the links. I would carefully read everything, because I know how the VA is. I would consider filing a claim knowing it would be an uphill climb.
Trying to click the back arrow to get out of the link, does not work so clicks the other tab. I expected to have a back arrow not what we just did. 
Unable to go back to questionnaire, the screen has frozen on loading. 
2. Is anything unclear or unexpected?
3. If you did not want to complete this set of questions, what would you do next?
4. Okay, please move on.
   
**Moderator:** At the end of each questionnaire, ask the following:

5. On a scale from 1 to 5 (with 1 being very easy and 5 being very difficult), how easy or difficult was it to answer these questions about Homelessness/Food insecurity?
6. Were there any terms that seem unfamiliar or confusing to you?

## Seventh Task: End of the Questionnaire Experience – 3 minutes
**Moderator:** At the end of the entire questionnaire experience, ask the following:
1. Can you tell me about your overall impression of this prototype? I share with you my opinion on the Sexual orientation and smoking. Those are questions that have nothing to do with being homeless or needing assistance with needing food. 
2. What did you notice about the process of submitting the questionnaire?
3. What parts of the experience worked as you expected?
4. Were there any parts that didn't match what you thought would happen? I got some surprises with the last question you just asked me. Once I finished homelessness I was finished as far as I was concerned. So, adding burn pits is a different area. I get they are trying to get multiple things done at one time. 
5. Was there anything that stood out or that you weren't sure about?
6. If you had to step away and return later, what would you expect to happen? In the past I would use the go home tab. Then I would get an email saying I didn’t complete the questionnaire and ask me to finish. 
Would you finish the questionnaire? Maybe in a day or 2.
Would you expect the questionnaire to be active for awhile? Some times it is they are good about that. 
7. How do you feel about using this type of tool for questions about personal health information; did you feel safe/secure?
8. What do you think about the length of time to complete the experience? Was it reasonable or unreasonable?
9. How does this prototype compare to other questionnaire platforms you have used in the past to fill out digital health questionnaires?
10. If you could change one thing about the entire questionnaire experience what would that be?  A note at the bottom of the PACT if you have a url and it doesn’t move forward go back to the other page and try again. 
11. And finally, if you had to interact with this prototype to answer questions about your healthcare on a particular cadence and consistent bases, how satisfied or dissatisfied would you be? I would be satisfied it shows that the VA cares, they are gathering information on how best they can assist you. 
    - Very dissatisfied
    - Dissatisfied
    - Neither dissatisfied, nor satisfied
    - Satisfied
    - Very satisfied
12. Before we close, do you have any questions for me?
13. For those of you who are observing, do you have any questions to ask?


## Thank-You and Closing - 3 minutes 
1. Well, we really appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us today. Your feedback is so helpful to us as we continue to work on these experiences and make sure it really works for Veterans.
2. Before you go, I wanted to reiterate that everything we did today wasn’t real. The questions that you answered were not submitted to your provider or anywhere.
Opinion of questionnaire changed once clarified that it was for an upcoming appointment. A lot more open to answering questions and going through. Can see the value of the questions. 
3. Lastly, Perigean will be sending you a thank you note with a little blurb that you can pass along to other Veterans you may know to provide them the chance to participate in future research studies.
4. Thank you so much again, and enjoy the rest of your day!


## Emergency Exit 
**Out of questions:** We have covered all the questions I have for you today. Thank you so much for your time and feedback.

**Blame technology:** I am so sorry, but I just learned that the thing I wanted to test with you today is unexpectedly not working. I apologize for the inconvenience and thank you for your time.


**Blame technology:** I am so sorry, but I just learned that the thing I wanted to test with you today is unexpectedly not working. I apologize for the inconvenience and thank you for your time.
