# Conversation guide for usability testing for Form 21-686c / staging environment

## Warm-up
-	Would you tell me a little bit about yourself? Your service experience, where you live, general experiences with the VA...   I was in the military for 10 years then civilian service for another 10 years dealing with ammo. I am now retired due to disability and take care of my 94 year old mother. 
-	Do you have a VA Disability Rating? Can you tell me, generally, about dependents you may have claimed on your VA benefit? My rating is 40 percent through the Army.
-	How often do you visit the eBenefits site? How about VA.gov; how often do you visit that site? Any other sites? Every once in a while, I was on it 3 times last month. The healthcare thing online I go to the prescriptions and then check my appointment times. Are not they pretty much the same thing. VA.gov probably hardly. I go to the healthcare area through benefits that shows your appointments and prescriptions. I go on that one all the time. You can check medical records and see what the doctors wrote. 
-	In the past, how have you added or changed dependents on your VA benefit? No children only a dog. 
-	And last, before we look at the test pages, if you wanted to add or change a dependent on your VA benefit now, what would you do? This can be online or otherwise: website, phone call, in-person...  I used to have a dependent. I am divorced now but I use to have a husband. I had to go and fill out the paperwork. Now I would use a computer to fill it out and will get married here shortly so I would go to the VA app and look at life insurance or whatever. 
-	What is AD row: it is the admin section where they do the paperwork.
-	App: I would google my question and go from there. I know it is through the VA, I am not a computer whiz. There is a site for the VA that you can get information like benefits and family benefits. SO I would go there. 

### User screenshares
-	Clicks on staging link to form intro
-	Cut/pastes (staging) user login; cut/pastes password
-	Clicks through sign-in screens
-	Arrives at signed-in version of intro screen

Now we are ready to start. Because dependents are family-members, some of the scenarios I have on my list (like divorce, children leaving home and even death) may be hard for you to get through. Please let me know if you would like to skip a particular task, and we will move to another.

We will be exploring made-up scenarios that do not necessarily apply to you. In any case you are free to use names and dates from your past--or even fake names and numbers. Nothing will be submitted because this is a test system. However, please do not use real social security numbers--1234567890 should work in those cases.

### Workflow set 1 scenario
1.	You recently married and your spouse has two children. You want to claim all of them as dependents. One child is 15 and in high school. The other child is an 18-year-old who is going to college in the fall. 

I would go to add or remove a dependent. Then click report child 18-23 years old, I would have to go through the marriage part as well. Claim benefits for child under 18 and unmarried. My question is, would you have to do your marriage first, I would assume I already did that and he had an id card and he is the sole provider for the kids. Then continue. Click continue. Veterans information: filling out information, chose out of United States but on military base. I am not getting the address part of what says I am overseas; this is getting frustrating. Clicks continue. Student information: Filling out information as self. Student address: Filling out student information. Student’s school they will be attending: I do not know I guess I will make it up. Clicks continue. Term or course dates: Selects random dates to enter. Clicks continue. 

Why did you say aww come one: There are more questions, my imagination is only so good at this time in the morning. 
Is this auto populating: Yes, but I am having to click on it 4-5 times to get it to add. I do not know what edge is but I know it auto populates. I guess it is called edge now. 

Is the information correct that is auto populating: No not all of it. There are old address there as well. 
Clicks submit and receives error. 

It would be much easier if I were filling it out for my child. I think it would be easier that way. My auto populates I have to click on it 4-5 times to get it to stick but it was fine.

Confused about child’s address: I guess I was reading it too fast, I guess the first address was mine then the second part asked for the address and apparently I do not read everything and it was asking for the child’s address. I was confused for a bit but I know it is for the child. 

Confusing you had to add the child address: Yes but it was on me because I thought it was mine again so it is on me because I did not read it all. 

Other thoughts: no it was clear and straight to the point.
It moved to the following screens telling you what is required and does not allow you to move to the next screen until it is complete. Another thing is that it allowed you to know how many screens were left.

How could we improved: That someone is able to speak to you when you do not know how to do it. It is actually simple; I would go to the va and it just says click here and it tells you what to fill out. 

2.	Your spouse's elderly parent, whom you claimed as a dependent, has recently passed. And your now 21-year-old stepchild just graduated college and is no longer considered a dependent by VA. You need both of these items reported to the VA.
I have been here a lot. (reading page). 

Clicks start new applications. Choses repost death of spouse, child, or dependent parent, so report death because they passed, clicks continue. Clicks continue. Veteran information: Filling out information. Depend who deceased: filling out information, Clicks continue, information of death being added, Clicks continue. Reviews information added.  Clicks I have read privacy information and submits application.

What next: I would have to look at the information for the child because they are over 21 so I do not know if they would be entitled to any so I would go home. 

Why go to home: To look up information for the child to see if they get any benefits. So I would need to start another application. 
Do you think this is easy to understand: I do not see anything that has a child that has finished school. Okay so report a child 18-23 that has stopped attending school. 

When doing this, you are doing it as one application, do you prefer to do it altogether: Yeah if it would just add on to it like click add another dependent instead of starting from the beginning. 

Explain more about that: When you are filling out the dependents that ask if you have any more dependents to add or change, you could go through that. Something like that. What I am see here is that I have to start a new application for each thing. 

Where would you like the add on part: after all information is competed on the first person, it would say do you have any changes to make to currently dependents or add dependents. 

If we said pick as many as you would like would it be helpful: Yes and it would go to the next thing you picked.  
What was done well: The site is pretty simple and self-explanatory. It would be much easier if I were actually reporting someone instead of making believe. It explains itself well. 
 
### Workflow set 2 scenarios
1.	Move forward years later, and you have had a recent divorce. Your ex-spouse and stepchildren will need to be removed as dependents.
Click report stepchild has left the household, report a divorce. Clicks continue. Veteran click continue. Veteran information: being filled out.  Information for divorce: filling out information. Click continue. Stepchild information being filled out. This makes it much easier because it falls right in line and I do not need to start a new application. This is perfect. I do not know how the child lives with.  

What is wrong: Answering these questions, I am just making noise. I have not finished my coffee. 
Headers make sense: yes if you wanted to review them. 

It would have been easier if it says select all the applies. Just looking at it, it looks like you can only pick one. If you are able to pick more than one that is good, especially if you are reporting a death it really helps because you might not be in the right mindset.

2.	Your 17-year-old child has recently married. You need to let VA know.

## Wrap-up
Looks like we covered everything on my list. (ALT) Looks like we are at (time), so we will need to leave it here.
-	Is there anything you would like to add--something we did not cover about the screens we looked at--or VA.gov in general?
-	Would you consider being involved in future follow-up sessions?

## Closing
Thank you so much for taking the time to talk with us! Your feedback is critical to our team's effort to improve Veterans' online experiences--and VA.gov in particular. Enjoy the rest of your day!

