# Conversation guide for usability testing for Form 21-686c / staging environment
## Warm-up
- P10
- 44 years old 
- 20 years of military services
- Retired for 5 years
- 100% disable 
- I live in north AL, 
- Have a very small amount of land and garden. 
- Couple of kids in collage and a grandchild. 

Deps – two children’s taking advantage of the edu benefits
Have you been eben- how often, probably not as often as I should there are multiple webpages and it is hard to get the right information. I have a tendency to follow what people will tell me to go, like a email. 
It would be nice if there was a central website to get everything. That may be a fair tale for right now

VA.gov a lot when I first retired I have not go there in the first year. 
I go to email about password expiring. And go to that. 

Add dep- well there are DEERs when to VA office and they helped me fill out doc. They made sure I filled out the right info. 

Prefer method to add a dependent- because the VA is 30 mins it would be nice to do it from my house, the problem is- I would like to do it online that is the reality.
	
You do not know if you are filling out the right paper work. Because the fact
At one point the VA was slow and to get a proper list was need, was really hard to find online. Tell me things.  
I am computer savvy not young but younger then other  VA.  We can upload docs. That the gen before us did as well. 

## Intro page-
Talk me through the page, 

Right a way I would see the button. Likes hover. 

Breadcrumb back to a different page, view my dep and see they are there or not I would need to see them.  Just in case I Bing or Google to get to this page. 
I would start at Google. Got to this page. 


Then I can see scroll down then

If I got here for information then I can add those people 

I would have to gather these things

Did well
Defiantly information is what we need to add people, like right now, just to let you know. My daughter 21 and they are not letting me address anything about her deers about because she is a legal account, she is trying to reenroll, but does not have the right question to ask and we don’t now what we need. 
want a screen shot because we don’t know. 

Common law marriage. 
  
Did not think any of this was aloud. 

Just came here from Google. I might just click the button with out scrolling down, there is a good possibility I would do that. 
Because you initial the page scroll down that.
Explanation further- if I saw something to the right. Anything that says 
Scroll down for explication follow these steps. 
I click the blue button. 


Issues
Reading through the directions- some people do not read instructions
What are your thoughts- bold is nice- if don’t read bold pulls the eyes

There are a lot of choices, someone that is older at this point they will get a little confused. All I want to do is get ride of these people off my account. 
I wondering what the purpose of these questions- I guess at this point you are trying to stop benefits- 

As a service member if you remove them from you account this will stop automatously- question like this seem redundant. Just saying blunt and strait to point – if you 

Sees it similar to older veteran- filling out form in the military add or remove list of names and check mark the people and list of option why you want to remove them. 

These questions seem redundant. Older person quartermaster in VFW. Why am I filling this out. 

Why is this redundant trying to add deleting someone. The next stage of this is you checking another box,  I not adding another box. Scroll down if you had all on one screen click this person name and check box for all the children and click divorce and continue don’t have to click it three time. 
Lets painful. Then I have to do it three times it is less painful. 

Don’t know which other would to click. They may have continued to go to school. 
What would you expect. to find
	Report a stepchild that has left the house
	Dep for stepchild. 

Deer would have already auto-populated the information for me. 
I do understand filling a forward address. -  

Click the plus sign right away

Information needed to report a divorce- all that it his him- info and where to it was div

It was not clear to me at first what why.. Maybe because- talk so much to day. What was going on this page. Cognitive lost. Hit in the head to many times. 

What do you want to do? I see review applicant but I have to look at it for a moment- I see the plus sign, open to get what is going on. Expanded seems like a lot to look at but it is clear. It is a lot to look at but it is clear. 

Struggle with the titles. – what do you want to do.  
