# Conversation guide for usability testing for Form 21-686c / staging environment

## Warm-up
-	Would you tell me a little bit about yourself? Your service experience, where you live, general experiences with the VA... I am Mike, dessert storm veteran. I live in Carlisle PA. My movement of my iPad is due to my service dog being on my lap. My granddaughter is sitting beside me as well.
-	Do you have a VA Disability Rating? Can you tell me, generally, about dependents you may have claimed on your VA benefit?  It is 100 percent. My kids are all grown now, I have three dependents, my son is 35, daughter 34, and my other daughter is 31. They have al used VA benefits. 
-	How often do you visit the eBenefits site? How about VA.gov; how often do you visit that site? Any other sites? Monthly. It has been good and bad; I always forget my password so that is the problem. VA.gov, I do not really visit. it confuses mean I am still use to the older system. 
-	How come: I do not know the change I guess. I just like the old system and what I was using before. It does not seem as user friendly to me but it might be because I am old school.
-	In the past, how have you added or changed dependents on your VA benefit? It has been so long, probably online and at the local VA. They helped me get the paperwork processed. 
-	And last, before we look at the test pages, if you wanted to add or change a dependent on your VA benefit now, what would you do? This can be online or otherwise: website, phone call, in-person...  I do not have a problem with using the online system so I would use that. It is hard to get a person on the phone, I would rather speak to a person. 
-	Hard to call, what happens: The automated crap, press 1 for this etc. All that kind of crap I hate it, I want a person when I make a phone call I do not want automated crap. Its not just the VA it is everything. 

#### User screenshares
-	Clicks on staging link to form intro
-	Cut/pastes (staging) user login; cut/pastes password
-	Clicks through sign-in screens
-	Arrives at signed-in version of intro screen

Now we are ready to start. Because dependents are family-members, some of the scenarios I have on my list (like divorce, children leaving home and even death) may be hard for you to get through. Please let me know if you would like to skip a particular task, and we will move to another.

We will be exploring made-up scenarios that do not necessarily apply to you. In any case you are free to use names and dates from your past--or even fake names and numbers. Nothing will be submitted because this is a test system. However, please do not use real social security numbers--1234567890 should work in those cases.

### Workflow set 1 scenario
1.	You recently married and your spouse has two children. You want to claim all of them as dependents. One child is 15 and in high school. The other child is an 18-year-old who is going to college in the fall.


2.	Your spouse's elderly parent, whom you claimed as a dependent, has recently passed. And your now 21-year-old stepchild just graduated college and is no longer considered a dependent by VA. You need both of these items reported to the VA.



### Workflow set 2 scenarios
1.	Move forward years later, and you have had a recent divorce. Your ex-spouse and stepchildren will need to be removed as dependents.
Click on the blue button to add or remove dependents. Click reporting divorce and report that a stepchild under 18 had left your household. Click continue. 

What were you reading: I was reading through the paragraph section. 
How do you feel about it: It is misleading. It took me a minute to comprehend and I do not know why. I do not know. 
Check boxes how well was it to understand them: Those were fine.

Veteran information, Click continue. 
Veteran information being filled out.  Then click continue
Spouses information and divorce information being filled out. Then click continue.
What would you do for the popup: Me personally I would click no.

Filling out stepchild information, Clicks add another child, filling out second stepchild information. Clicks continue. 
The button in the corner is misleading: It looks like I am wanting to remove the stepchild. The remove section makes me think I will be removing the stepchild you just entered in. The remove button is that what I am supposed to click or add another stepchild. What should I click now, remove. 

You are not sure about the remove button because you need to remove them so you are putting them in to remove them but it should be a different way to remove them: Yes.  

Task to get rid of the child so remove there could do that and needs to me worded differently: Correct
Would you click remove or not: Yes I would click remove right there.

What about the reading lead you to think that was the correct: Probably because I am looking at it on an iPad and I do not know. Maybe because I cannot see the full screen .I would click continue.

I would click no to no longer supporting stepchild. Filling out information for the child living with. That would be the ex-wife. 
The header was helpful to understand what to place there(who the child lives with now) so I would put the address for the ex-wife. So the stepchild address is who she lives with, which would be the4 ex-wife. I am slightly confused so what do I do here. 

Is the title(stepchild’s address) confusing: I do not have a new stepchild; I am getting rid of them.

Would stepchild’s new address be better, helpful: I know you want to keep it short and sweet, to me it should be a phrase such as where does stepchild currently reside or who does the stepchild reside or if the child is no longer with you who do they reside with.

How would it be filled out: We would put Anne’s address there(ex-wife). Filling out information, click continue. 

Review application: I would click I have read the privacy act and submit. I would not actually read it. Do many people read it, I do not know. 

2.	Your 17-year-old child has recently married. You need to let VA know.

I do not know anything about underage marriage but we will try. Click add or remove a dependent. 

Before we leave this page, lets review it, second time here and only click on the button: I typically only cc lick the button and I have been to the VA page a lot so I know a lot of what the BS says if that makes sense. 

I am not sure what you are looking for, I see the page and I have been to the VA websites so it looks normal to me. Nothing jumps out and grabs me for any reason. 

Scrolls down, what about this: Would I read this word for word, no. Would I scan it, yes. Just to tell you a bit more, I am not a reader and it helps with this study as well, my memory and comprehension have gotten really bad. I have to re-read over and over to comprehend it. I have been to this page before. 

You have seen it before: Correct. 

If you were here before you would scroll up and down the page: Yes I would cruse right through this. If I were applying I would slow down when I see the word that I am applying for. If I were trying to delete I would . Like the highlighted words pop out to me so I would stop and read through there. If I am going to deleted I would scan until I see delete or remove dependent then I would read through it to see if it want I need then scan until I see it. I like how the types of marriage words are highlighted pop out to you. If that is what I am looking for that is will I will stop.  SWAG method, swing with a wild as* guess. Those words pop out so I would read it until I see another highlighted word. 

Scroll to get to the button, would you be more likely to stop here: No if I knew that I needed to do it so I would just scroll to where I need to start the application. 

I am not a fan of the login, the three systems. I want one way to login to where I am going, it confuses me when there is more than one. I think it is because of the transition period. Once everything is on va.gov ill be okay if I live that long. You know there are three different ways to login and I have three different logins to get into the VA. Most of what I use is myhealthevet and I do not like having to go through all of it to get there. Once the transition is done I think it will be okay but its just getting to that point for me personally. 

Clicks report the marriage of a child under 18. 
Veteran information clicks continue. 

Child who is now married information being filled out. It is a son instead of a daughter that is better or does not it mate a different.
Review application: I just got freaked out in my mind, it was personal.

I would click I have read and submit application.

This is the second time at the page why did you read it: It is boiler plate BS. Laziness. 

Opening tabs- when you read the title what do you think: When I read what do you want to do? I would think that I have already done it so this is the review so I do not need to do it again. That would be the same for veteran information because I already did it. I assume I did it correctly because if you push it, it will show me what I put in. It is a waste of my time to click on it and review it. 

Any questions for me: No, I hope I did okay. No questions. In speaking of a veteran that has been in the VA system for 25 years now, when I was a young veteran I was about learning the system but as an older veteran I just want to get it done. There is no patience, the easier the better if that makes sense because I have been in the system for so long and have seen so many challenges.

Rate the new process 1-10,10 the hardest: which process, getting it done through the VA.

No what we just did: I mean it is pretty easier for the most part but there is the boiler plate BS an old guy like me will not read especially if they have been to the VA site and a lot of change is not always good. Easier the better.

The form was easy to complete: Correct but some things that you pointed out is BS and most older guys like me will not read it, there is no need to repeat it. A lot of people in my age group are just now learning how to use the system. 

## Wrap-up
Looks like we covered everything on my list. (ALT) Looks like we are at (time), so we will need to leave it here.
-	Is there anything you would like to add--something we did not cover about the screens we looked at--or VA.gov in general?
-	Would you consider being involved in future follow-up sessions?

## Closing
Thank you so much for taking the time to talk with us! Your feedback is critical to our team's effort to improve Veterans' online experiences--and VA.gov in particular. Enjoy the rest of your day!

