# Conversation guide for usability testing for Form 21-686c / staging environment

## Warm-up
-	Would you tell me a little bit about yourself? Your service experience, where you live, general experiences with the VA...   It was 3rd of June I was drafted. My head was shaved, I was at Fort Bragg when I heard people gossiping and want to stop then bobby Kennedy was assassinated. I finished at Bragg and I was ahold over because my older brother was a lifer in the Army so he told me to go to OCS so I wanted until the security clearance. Then went to fort dix as the second youngest Lt. Then went to fort Polk then married and went to jump school to be a paratrooper and to panama then viteman. I was an infantry platoon leader. One people was wounded during a friendly fire and then got out and went to college using the GI Bill and I become an attorney in Philadelphia and retired after 22 years to assist with being a caregiver for my wife then PTSD. I have been retired since 2008 and known as an inactive attorney. I was also a newspaper reporter.
-	Do you have a VA Disability Rating? Can you tell me, generally, about dependents you may have claimed on your VA benefit? 100 percent for hearing loss and PTSD. I had hearing problems due to artillery fire. Yes, my son can get benefits up to 23 so he went and used it at two different schools. He is 28 now. I also received pay for my spouse when she was alive, she passed two years ago. 
-	How often do you visit the eBenefits site? How about VA.gov; how often do you visit that site? Any other sites? I get my pay each month. I would go to the VA hospital for once a month for checkups, they cured me of cancer. I see my normal doctor there and use medication that they provide for free, 9 pills each day. I also had lasers for a torn retina. I just went on yesterday and I have it on my phone for my health. It records my steps each day and I was able to place it in the website so it records all of my shots. Yesterday I found out I was given a bad medication in 2014 and I contacted a law firm because they were not supposed to give it to me due to the medication I was one. 
-	In the past, how have you added or changed dependents on your VA benefit?
-	And last, before we look at the test pages, if you wanted to add or change a dependent on your VA benefit now, what would you do? This can be online or otherwise: website, phone call, in-person...


#### User screenshares
-	Clicks on staging link to form intro
-	Cut/pastes (staging) user login; cut/pastes password
-	Clicks through sign-in screens
-	Arrives at signed-in version of intro screen

Now we are ready to start. Because dependents are family-members, some of the scenarios I have on my list (like divorce, children leaving home and even death) may be hard for you to get through. Please let me know if you would like to skip a particular task, and we will move to another.

We will be exploring made-up scenarios that do not necessarily apply to you. In any case you are free to use names and dates from your past--or even fake names and numbers. Nothing will be submitted because this is a test system. However, please do not use real social security numbers--1234567890 should work in those cases.

## Workflow set 1 scenario
1.	You recently married and your spouse has two children. You want to claim all of them as dependents. One child is 15 and in high school. The other child is an 18-year-old who is going to college in the fall.


2.	Your spouse's elderly parent, whom you claimed as a dependent, has recently passed. And your now 21-year-old stepchild just graduated college and is no longer considered a dependent by VA. You need both of these items reported to the VA.

## Workflow set 2 scenarios
What are your thoughts on the first screen ever looked at: Well I thought it looks easier, add or remove a dependent so I went right to that. I thought I provide my name, address, and all of that stuff so I did not need to go over that again.

You provided and did not need to do it aga, explain: You typed in all of the information so why would I need to go over it since I have already done it. I do not know why I need to review it because I have done it a few moments ago. 

In this screen you were drawn to the add or remove dependents, do you think that this is the complete screen: I do not know what you mean by that. 

What are your thoughts on why you would not scroll down to see if there was more: I did not read anything down below; I hardly ever do. Maybe I should have. 

You need your marriage details; I am not going to remember that because I do not even know when I got married. I have to carry around the SSN for my wife and son. I did not know I had to report my deceased wife the VA called me. It is nice to know they are able to assist with filling out the form. (reading directions). I would then click on sign in to start applications.

If this box with the grey was not here and the first thing was the instructions would you read it: No I would just go to the blue button to start the application. 

1.	Move forward years later, and you have had a recent divorce. Your ex-spouse and stepchildren will need to be removed as dependents.
Clicks add or remove a dependent. There are people that say, “Do not call me sir I work for a living implying that the offices don’t work for their money.” 

Click report a divorce and if I go through there they are stepchildren so they wound be covered once the divorce is finalized so I would click continue. 

Veteran information being filled out. Only fills out the required information 
Spouses information being filled out
Willing out divorce information

Reviews: Well that is it. Is asks what you want to do, I want to provide information on the divorce so I would click information to report a divorce. Everything is already there so I do not see anything to edit so I would click submit after I click I have read and accepted the privacy information. 

What did you think when you first got here: Initially I though you could skip the first two, I did not think I needed to look at them but I guess I should have looked at it.

Why did you want to skip the steps: I though it was already taken care of but I was mistaken. 

Why did it indicate that it was taken care of already: I thought I already placed that information and that since I already placed the information for divorce to be there, I did not request anything else. The veteran information is already there. 

It is a review page; did it tell you that: Yes but only for the things about the divorce. I did not know I needed to review the veteran information because I thought I already filled it out earlier. Looking over the veteran information. I thought it was my service information that you wanted like when I was drafted and stuff like that. That was my mistake. 

Have you seen this as information you have not done: Yes but I thought I have done it in this form now. 
2.	Your 17-year-old child has recently married. You need to let VA know.

I saw something down here, maybe I was wrong. I thought I saw something that says report child under 18 that married. I would scroll up and read closer. (reading instruction). It is last point under prepare prior to the bold letter. 

Was this information helpful: Yeah. A lot of it, I carry my SSN for my wife and son. I would not know my first marriage date it called war fever you get married because you think you will die. I would figure it out if I had to. To be honest with you I think it is too much information being thrown at you. I guess there are 17 years old that get married. You need the date of the event, what if they ran away form home. It is helpful but maybe too much. 

It is helpful, is it clear: Yes it is clear but you have to be careful going through it and you need to be able to go back and re-read it during the process.

**Starting application**
 I would click report a divorce. Is that what you are asking. What is the scenario again? Oh okay, I would click report the marriage of a child under 18. 
Veteran information click continue.
Veteran information being filled out. 

Thoughts: I guess it is needed but I think once you provided your SSN they would already have the updated information so it is redundant. 
You look at it was being populated for you: Yes.
Childs information being entered.
Marriage information being filled out. 
Review: Now I would go through everything. 

Is that misleading to you: I already entered what I needed why would I do it again. Having done this the first time I would review it all. I would click I have read and then submit application. 

Titled confusing to you: Yes. The first two. I have already told them what I wanted to do and I have already provided the information but it is says it is a review so it is to ensure it is correct and edit if it is not correct. I like getting in and getting out without much review. 

Is this a lot: Yes. 

Questions are confusing because you have to do more stuff: Yes, it is redundant and cumbersome. It makes me want to quit the process and get on the phone with them

What do you want to see: I would only need to review the information needed to report. 

Any questions for me: no, not really. I like the while process and the VA has done wonderful work. I sent an email this morning to the VA contact where I live asking them how they felt about renaming some of the military forts due to them being names after confederate soldiers. I hate to see the names changed even though they were confederate soldiers. Again the VA has done great work and support us veterans.

## Wrap-up
Looks like we covered everything on my list. (ALT) Looks like we are at (time), so we will need to leave it here.
-	Is there anything you would like to add--something we did not cover about the screens we looked at--or VA.gov in general?
-	Would you consider being involved in future follow-up sessions?

## Closing
Thank you so much for taking the time to talk with us! Your feedback is critical to our team's effort to improve Veterans' online experiences--and VA.gov in particular. Enjoy the rest of your day!

