# Conversation guide for usability testing for Form 21-686c / staging environment
## Warm-up
-	Would you tell me a little bit about yourself? Your service experience, where you live, general experiences with the VA... I am 38 years old with a 14 year old son, in the Marines for 4 years and was medically discharges due to issues after pregnancy. The VA, right after I got out I did not like them but the last few years has been great and I have a great team. 
-	Do you have a VA Disability Rating? Can you tell me, generally, about dependents you may have claimed on your VA benefit? I am at 90 percent with the VA, I was medically discharged at 0 percent through the Marine Corps. I just have my son as a dependent. 
-	How often do you visit the eBenefits site? How about VA.gov; how often do you visit that site? Any other sites? Every once in a while, I go on myhealthevet more often, at least once a week. I check on my doctors notes to ensure they are correct. I am a nurse by trade now. 
-	In the past, how have you added or changed dependents on your VA benefit? Not on there. I had my son while active duty so he was added when I applied for the disability. 
-	And last, before we look at the test pages, if you wanted to add or change a dependent on your VA benefit now, what would you do? This can be online or otherwise: website, phone call, in-person... I know you can do it online and I think you can upload proof through there now. 
-	Upload forms like print off or PDF: I am pretty sure you can scan or whatever tor print out the documentation and send the initially information then you may need to take the birth certificate to the VA. I do not know if you can upload copies of that. 

##User screenshares
-	Clicks on staging link to form intro
-	Cut/pastes (staging) user login; cut/pastes password
-	Clicks through sign-in screens
-	Arrives at signed-in version of intro screen

Now we are ready to start. Because dependents are family-members, some of the scenarios I have on my list (like divorce, children leaving home and even death) may be hard for you to get through. Please let me know if you would like to skip a particular task, and we will move to another.

We will be exploring made-up scenarios that do not necessarily apply to you. In any case you are free to use names and dates from your past--or even fake names and numbers. Nothing will be submitted because this is a test system. However, please do not use real social security numbers--1234567890 should work in those cases.

### Workflow set 1 scenario
1.	You recently married and your spouse has two children. You want to claim all of them as dependents. One child is 15 and in high school. The other child is an 18-year-old who is going to college in the fall.
(reding the page prior to clicking start new application)

Thoughts: It looks good, I am just double checking what is needed. I like that it is detailed step by step, when it is broken down it is easier to see what you need. When it is done in the paragraph you can lose sight of the details and you may forget things that you need that are important. Like right here adding a student 18-23 that applies, you need SSN, school information they will be attending, what they are studying, starting, and ending. Also the expected incomes.

How do it make you feel : all of that information is excessive for a dependent that will be going to school.

How come: Especially just starting out school, they still rely on a parent and they need a part time job. I know my niece just did the first 2 years of school and just applied to Millersville and they want the parent’s information because she is claimed by them even though she works full time. Having to have both sides is frustrating and needing to know all of this is a lot. I understand the start and stopping but as far as their majors and job information they might be working they might not be working. I think if they are going to college that should be their main focus.

Who is they: the students main focus. They should not have to have a job and their exact income that they will be having. If the VA said that if they make n ore than 12k they can t be claimed as a dependent that may worry the parent and the student so they would not work much. That offsetting by be worrisome for their college bills or just eat during the year, just to make it with the amount that they make. It depends on where they live and go to college. 

Financial questions hurts them: Yes, it may offset them from taking certain jobs. It might put a strain on the family and set boundaries on the family by not allowing them to claim them.

**Start new application**
Paragraph thoughts: That is a bit confusing. (reading paragraph) It is redundant because they are over 18 but it tells you that you must claim under 18 if never claimed before.

What was confusing: (reading paragraph) It is confusing because if they are over 18 and going to school you must click under 18 as well, you should not have to click to separate things. There should just be one that says dependent 18 to 23 attending school and I have not even looked down to see what is there. 

What that impact you: No I can follow directions but I think it is a little weird. You have to claim benefits for child 18-23 going to school, claim benefits for child under 18 and unmarried I am guessing. Plus if they are under 18 they might be unmarried to claim them.
I am guessing that you are doing them separately even though that they have spouse there as well.

Thoughts: I can click spouse and it may say how many dependents do you want to claim. Clicks continue.

What do you expect: I would think that they ask questions about the family. On the next page it would ask me questions about the school but I clicked spouse as well so I assume they ask questions about the spouse then I hope it asks me if there are any more dependents I would like to claim. 

You clicked the three boxes and expect to see questions of the family and the system would ask you questions: Yes, like the first page it tells you that you need information for the dependent going to college like income, school. Then I had to click under 18 and I clicked spouse so I am expecting prompts about dependents such as the individual going to college and my spouse, I am expecting it to ask me if I have more than 1 dependent under 18 due to having to click dependent under 18 and college. 

Clicking box due to paragraph and hoping the system provides clarity: Yes or is there another one going to college, basically how many child dependents. 

**Clicks continue**
Veteran information, reading the note. If I got married my name would be changing as well. 

When you say that what do you expect: it has my name as Mitchell but I just got married so I have a marriage certificate and need to update that as well as my dependents. 

Veteran information being filled out, clicks continue. Enters the child information. Clicks add a new child and fills out the information. Reading additional evidence needed paragraph.

What are you thinking: The marriage certificate or original birth certificate. Looks at the examples of new evidence. They are stepchildren and not adopted. I might not be able to place them as a dependent because they still have tow parents that can take care of him. Maybe put them as adopted. The child has 2 parents that can care for them but he is not considered by dependent because they still have two parents to support them. 

How do you come to that conclusion: It could be that they do not consider you as the primary care giver, it is the same way as taxes. Kids that have parents split custody it is every other year some parents get to claim them on taxes. Like if a kid has two separated and two normal parents they would not rotate it every other year. I do not know if they would be considered for dependency.  

What would you do next, why: I would still show what I have, it is not like I would lie on it. I would add them as part of my family and if I needed to change it to adopted later on I would. I still want them listed as family , its not only for benefits it so that they are listed as family incase something is wrong with me they are there to help or if they need to be called for something. 

You’re thinking this can only occur if they are legally part of your family: As far as benefits, the way they have it listed it seems like benefits wise they may not add monetary supplement if they are not your dependent such as adopted, cannot care for themselves, or biological. I am not seeing the stepchild listed here. It only says you may need to provide the birth certificate only if not living in the US but we are living in the US.

The way it is listed is confusing and you may not be able to add them for benefit: Yes,  you can add them into the system but how they have everything. Every other thing is in bold besides stepchild. I would just send the birth certificate and marriage certificate proving that they are my spouse’s child. 

Clicks continue, it would be the same for the second child, marriage certificate, birth certificate then adding the school information. She will not technically be living with us if she is at school. She does not live with a person so what do I write there if she lives at school. Should I put the school name.

What would you do: I would place the school name. Additional evidence information, reading over the examples.

Thoughts: well technically a child under 18 is unable to support themselves but not under what they define it so I would send the birth certificate and marriage certificate. For the over 18 year old I would send the documentation that they are attending school and living there. 

## Wrap-up
Looks like we covered everything on my list. (ALT) Looks like we are at (time), so we will need to leave it here.
-	Is there anything you would like to add--something we did not cover about the screens we looked at--or VA.gov in general?
-	Would you consider being involved in future follow-up sessions?

## Closing
Thank you so much for taking the time to talk with us! Your feedback is critical to our team's effort to improve Veterans' online experiences--and VA.gov in particular. Enjoy the rest of your day!

