
# Notes: Discharge Upgrade Wizard Usability Testing

## Warm-up Questions
1. I understand you are a Veteran. Is that right? * Veteran.
     - Thanks for confirming that.
2. What kind of device are you using today? (Computer / Tablet / Smartphone) * Samsung mobile phone.
3. I will be sharing a web page link with you during the session. How would you prefer to
receive the URL? I could dictate it to you, or put it in the Zoom chat. (RECORD) * Zoom chat.
4. Do you know how discharge status relates to VA benefits? *Yes.
5. Are you familiar with the discharge upgrade process? * You can be medically boarders, honorably discharged, or in some MOS’s they can call you back if you’re in the Intelligence division. You can have different disability percentages. 
     - (If Y) Have you applied for a discharge upgrade in the past? *No.
          i. (If Y) Can you tell me about your experience? (when, how, results)
     - (If N) No problem. You'll learn about it as we go through this session.

## User Tasks

### First Task: Open wizard
Let's suppose that (Google/VA.gov) led you to the web page that I'm going to show you. I'd
like you to try to use it, and please share your feedback while you're doing that. I'm interested
in your impressions of what you see, any questions that you have, and how you feel about
what you're doing. * I love all branches of the military consider you  for a discharge upgrade and it lists all of them. I love that.
*This is interesting, the DD214. This explains it really well. 
*I would go all the way down and hit, “get started”.

### Second Task: Go through questions in wizard
Please try to **talk aloud** about what you're thinking and what you plan to do BEFORE selecting
anything.

(RECORD all feedback on questions. Note: Certain questions don’t appear on every flow.)

- Intro screen 
     - especially if p has not previously applied for a discharge upgrade
- Service branch *Army
- Year and month discharge *before 1992.
- Reason * checked bubble one.
*It’s explained well, simple, big buttons, I like that it gives you one paragraph at a time to work with. 
     - If nothing applies, p should select “I suffered from an undiagnosed,
misdiagnosed, or untreated mental health condition, including posttraumatic
stress disorder (PTSD), while in the service. I was discharged for reasons related
to this condition.”
- Intention
- Court martial
- Previous application questions
- Prior service

### Third Task: Review screen
(RECORD which answers they’ve selected, if possible)

Please tell me about what you see here. * I like it, very similar when I help people apply for Medicaid. Better than going back and flipping through. It’s nice and clean. Not cluttered with stuff. When you have a lot of clutter, it can interfere with your thinking. 

- What does this mean to you?
- What would you do now? *I would click continue.
  
### Fourth Task: Edit a question - Pick 1 or 2 of these depending on time

#### Option 1: Year Discharge (Appears on every flow) (If selected year other than 2009)

I’d like you to pretend that you left the military in 2009.

Is there a way you could update that information from this page?

(RECORD all comments, especially about alerts. Did they notice them? Y/N)

- Edit
- Year discharge *2009, 
     - Please tell me about what you see here.
     - (If alert is noticed) What does this mean to you?
     - What would you do now? * what month and that was updated.
- Month discharge
- Continue to review screen
     - Please tell me about what you see here.
     - (If alert or updated answers are noticed) What does this mean to you?
     - What would you do now?

#### Option 2: Previous Application (Appears on some flows) (If p has not previously applied for discharge upgrade)

I’d like you to pretend that you have applied for a discharge upgrade.

Is there a way you could update that information from this page? *Click, edit and hit yes and continue, there’s additional questions. 

(RECORD all comments, especially about alerts. Did they notice them? Y/N)

- Edit
- Previous application
     - Please tell me about what you see here.
     - (If alert is noticed) What does this mean to you?
     - What would you do now?
- Previous application year
     - Can select either option
 
*To test Back button:*

- Previous application type or Prior Service
     - I'd like you to pause here before answering this question. 
     - Pretend that you need to change your answer to the last question. How would you do that? * I would go back and click the option and continue.
- (Navigate Back) Previous application year
     - Can select opposite option
- Previous application type or Prior Service
     - Can select any option
     - Selecting BCNR will show Failure to Exhaust question
- Failure to Exhaust
     - Can select any option 
- Continue to review screen * This is so simple. That link would give you a list of documents that you would need from the VA. You can click tabs if you don’t know what to do and it’s really clean. I was not even aware of a discharge upgrade. 
     - Please tell me about what you see here.
     - (If alert or updated answers are noticed) What does this mean to you?
     - What would you do now? *I would probably apply for an PBDR review to see if I can get a higher rating. If I need help, I can click, find a VSO. This is so simple compared to what I went through. Print the page and send it off to Arlington. It’s too bad that you can’t do it online. 
*Yes, more options rather than mailing it in. I did it all by hand and then I mailed it and if I did it online, I would appreciate the link to submit online. Some people don’t have printers. 
*Then I would click on this, “what happens after I send”

#### Option 3: Edit non-branching question (If options 1 & 2 aren't valid)

I’d like you to pretend that you served in the [branch of service not selected].
(Options: Army, Navy, Air Force, Coast Guard, Marine Corps)

Is there a way you could update that information from this page?

(RECORD all comments, especially about alerts. Did they notice them? Y/N)

- Edit
- Branch of service
     - Please tell me about what you see here.
     - (If alert is noticed) What does this mean to you?
     - What would you do now?
- Continue to review screen
     - Please tell me about what you see here.
     - (If alert or updated answers are noticed) What does this mean to you?
     - What would you do now?
*I like it, the additional resources are nice but I would almost say, “click here for additional resources. When people are scrolling, they are going to go to the bottom. 
After you review your answers, could you tell me what you would do next?

Could you please select "Continue"?

### Fifth Task: Results screen

Please tell me about what you see here.

1.	Why do you think you’re seeing this page? * I like the format. 
2. What does this page mean to you?
3. What might be unclear to you? 
4. What would you do next?

## Post-Task Interview
Type into #feedback-backchannel: "Any questions you want me to ask?"

1. What worked well for you? * I love the big buttons that you can press. A lot of our Verterans are older and have vision issues. You are catering to the correct age group having this the way you have it. 
2. What was unclear or didn't work well for you? *Nothing. Everything was very clear. I would love it if this was programed when first filling out your VA disability.
3. What would you like to change or add? *Not really.
4. Is there anything else that we haven't talked about that you think I should know? *On the first page it mentioned more things to possibly have an upgrade. Sexual orientation was on the first page but I didn’t see it anywhere else. Some people got article 15’s when they were discharged and not it’s different. 

## Thank-You and Closing - 3 minutes
