# Notes: Discharge Upgrade Wizard Usability Testing

## Warm-up Questions
1. I understand you are a Veteran. Is that right? *Veteran.
     - Thanks for confirming that.
2. What kind of device are you using today? (Computer / Tablet / Smartphone) *iMac.
3. I will be sharing a web page link with you during the session. How would you prefer to
receive the URL? I could dictate it to you, or put it in the Zoom chat. (RECORD) *Zoom chat.
4. Do you know how discharge status relates to VA benefits? *I do.
5. Are you familiar with the discharge upgrade process? * Certain levels that are not eligible for if your discharge levels are not good. 
     - (If Y) Have you applied for a discharge upgrade in the past? *Fairly familiar. 
          i. (If Y) Can you tell me about your experience? (when, how, results)
     - (If N) No problem. You'll learn about it as we go through this session.

## User Tasks

### First Task: Open wizard
Let's suppose that (Google/VA.gov) led you to the web page that I'm going to show you. I'd
like you to try to use it, and please share your feedback while you're doing that. I'm interested
in your impressions of what you see, any questions that you have, and how you feel about
what you're doing. *You can apply for discharge upgrade, these are the easiest cases to win with the DOD. This looks good. I would click, “get started”. 

### Second Task: Go through questions in wizard
Please try to **talk aloud** about what you're thinking and what you plan to do BEFORE selecting
anything.

(RECORD all feedback on questions. Note: Certain questions don’t appear on every flow.)

- Intro screen
     - especially if p has not previously applied for a discharge upgrade
- Service branch-*Army
- Year and month discharge *2005
- Reason *(clicked circle number 5).
     - If nothing applies, p should select “I suffered from an undiagnosed,
misdiagnosed, or untreated mental health condition, including posttraumatic
stress disorder (PTSD), while in the service. I was discharged for reasons related
to this condition.”
- Intention *administrative.
- Court martial
- Previous application questions
- Prior service

### Third Task: Review screen
(RECORD which answers they’ve selected, if possible)

Please tell me about what you see here. *Everything looks fine, click continue. All the answers I put in. I imagine it’s going to generate a form based on these answers.

- What does this mean to you?
- What would you do now?
  
### Fourth Task: Edit a question - Pick 1 or 2 of these depending on time

#### Option 1: Year Discharge (Appears on every flow) (If selected year other than 2009)

I’d like you to pretend that you left the military in 2009.

Is there a way you could update that information from this page? *Click edit and go to 2009 and there might be a new question because of this. I guess there may have been some changes to rules and stuff that requires this information. 

(RECORD all comments, especially about alerts. Did they notice them? Y/N)

- Edit
- Year discharge
     - Please tell me about what you see here.
     - (If alert is noticed) What does this mean to you?
     - What would you do now?
- Month discharge
- Continue to review screen
     - Please tell me about what you see here.
     - (If alert or updated answers are noticed) What does this mean to you?
     - What would you do now?

#### Option 2: Previous Application (Appears on some flows) (If p has not previously applied for discharge upgrade)

I’d like you to pretend that you have applied for a discharge upgrade.

Is there a way you could update that information from this page?

(RECORD all comments, especially about alerts. Did they notice them? Y/N) * I would click edit and hit yes, then click second bubble. 
*What I’m seeing here is that its not generating anything new. Just that the form is there to pick the right process to pick the right upgrade. 
*It’s not unclear, just having gone through this the manual way, this here is not simplifying anything. If I go to the VFW or Veteran support group, they are just going to tell you to fill a 149 form. Most of the time you can go online and download a 149 form. Most Veterans have already gotten direction and paperwork from someone else that will do this for them. Lets say you are helping a Vietnam Veteran, he is going to go to his VFW. Someone younger may go to Reddit. This is form is helpful, but it’s not helping anyone. Only thing you are offering here is a form that tells the Veteran, “ for you, the process is this”.
*You would take the snail mail portion out of it and where you can download it online and fill out, or PDF form or fax or scan it. Most Vets don’t trust the mail. We avoid using the mail. 
*This may be a good start for someone that doesn’t know anything, but they may not even go online for this.
*If this page had, I’m transgender and I need to change my name. When I changed my name, I went to a website that has advocacy for Transgender Veterans. I know that “Buddy statements” carry a lot of weight but it doesn’t say that in here. If you went to the trouble to create a form, the next step would be create a landing page for each circumstance. 
*Step one, download and fill out 149 form. Would be cool if this was filled in in the parts that we already told you.

- Edit
- Previous application
     - Please tell me about what you see here.
     - (If alert is noticed) What does this mean to you?
     - What would you do now?
- Previous application year
     - Can select either option
 
*To test Back button:*

- Previous application type or Prior Service
     - I'd like you to pause here before answering this question.
     - Pretend that you need to change your answer to the last question. How would you do that?
- (Navigate Back) Previous application year
     - Can select opposite option
- Previous application type or Prior Service
     - Can select any option
     - Selecting BCNR will show Failure to Exhaust question
- Failure to Exhaust
     - Can select any option 
- Continue to review screen
     - Please tell me about what you see here.
     - (If alert or updated answers are noticed) What does this mean to you?
     - What would you do now?

#### Option 3: Edit non-branching question (If options 1 & 2 aren't valid)

I’d like you to pretend that you served in the [branch of service not selected].
(Options: Army, Navy, Air Force, Coast Guard, Marine Corps)

Is there a way you could update that information from this page?

(RECORD all comments, especially about alerts. Did they notice them? Y/N)

- Edit
- Branch of service
     - Please tell me about what you see here.
     - (If alert is noticed) What does this mean to you?
     - What would you do now?
- Continue to review screen
     - Please tell me about what you see here.
     - (If alert or updated answers are noticed) What does this mean to you?
     - What would you do now?

After you review your answers, could you tell me what you would do next?

Could you please select "Continue"?

### Fifth Task: Results screen

Please tell me about what you see here.

1. Why do you think you’re seeing this page?
2. What does this page mean to you?
3. What might be unclear to you?
4. What would you do next?

## Post-Task Interview
Type into #feedback-backchannel: "Any questions you want me to ask?"

1.	What worked well for you? * I liked that there was a form that I filled out dealing with my circumstances but when it dropped me to a landing page, it was a letdown. You could have done better.  
2. What was unclear or didn't work well for you? 
3. What would you like to change or add? *The questions were concise and narrowed down to what was necessary. 
4. Is there anything else that we haven't talked about that you think I should know? *I think you have a good start but until you are offering something more than what is out there, this just isn’t it. 

## Thank-You and Closing - 3 minutes
