# Notes: Discharge Upgrade Wizard Usability Testing

## Warm-up Questions
1. I understand you are a Veteran. Is that right? *Veteran.
     - Thanks for confirming that.
2. What kind of device are you using today? (Computer / Tablet / Smartphone) *Laptop.
3. I will be sharing a web page link with you during the session. How would you prefer to
receive the URL? I could dictate it to you, or put it in the Zoom chat. (RECORD) *Zoom chat.
4. Do you know how discharge status relates to VA benefits? *I know if you try, if you had a bad discharge, but you can get it to a point to get VA benefits. I have friends who have done it. I know it was challenging. 
5. Are you familiar with the discharge upgrade process? *I know it’s a lot of paperwork, a long going process and you have to submit a log of information. You just stick with it. 
*No harm in going from good to great and I did it. Someone at the Patriotic Hall told me to fill out some paperwork and I did it and got my benefits. The process and paperwork took maybe 15-30 minutes. It could have been longer to fill out the paperwork. I don’t remember how long it took them to decide after submitting my papers. 
     - (If Y) Have you applied for a discharge upgrade in the past?
          i. (If Y) Can you tell me about your experience? (when, how, results)
     - (If N) No problem. You'll learn about it as we go through this session.

## User Tasks

### First Task: Open wizard
Let's suppose that (Google/VA.gov) led you to the web page that I'm going to show you. I'd
like you to try to use it, and please share your feedback while you're doing that. I'm interested
in your impressions of what you see, any questions that you have, and how you feel about
what you're doing. 
*Simple and easy is good for me.
*This seems like a good process. I think I can follow along. They give you stuff that you’re going to need. After reading all this, I would press the green get started button. 

### Second Task: Go through questions in wizard
Please try to **talk aloud** about what you're thinking and what you plan to do BEFORE selecting
anything.

(RECORD all feedback on questions. Note: Certain questions don’t appear on every flow.)

- Intro screen
     - especially if p has not previously applied for a discharge upgrade
- Service branch *Army.
- Year and month discharge *Sometimes I get confused and I might have to stop here. Overall, I will have that information here in my DD214. I will say 1999 and continue. 
- Reason *Check the first one. 
     - If nothing applies, p should select “I suffered from an undiagnosed,
misdiagnosed, or untreated mental health condition, including posttraumatic
stress disorder (PTSD), while in the service. I was discharged for reasons related
to this condition.”
- Intention
- Court martial *I never went to a court martial. I will say no. 
- Previous application questions * This is good because if I did do this and they denied and they allowed it, I’m going to exhaust all my recourses to me. For me, I will put no. 
- Prior service *I would assume that we are still talking about Honorable. This is confusing, I would stop and get help to choose the right one. I would probably pick the first option. General and Honorable almost sound the same. 

### Third Task: Review screen
(RECORD which answers they’ve selected, if possible)

Please tell me about what you see here. *The only thing I don’t see is, “ can I save this information” so I can come back and I don’t have to do the process again. That would nice to have to be able to go back.

- What does this mean to you?
- What would you do now?
  
### Fourth Task: Edit a question - Pick 1 or 2 of these depending on time

#### Option 1: Year Discharge (Appears on every flow) (If selected year other than 2009)

I’d like you to pretend that you left the military in 2009.

Is there a way you could update that information from this page?*I’m hoping to go to edit and correct it. 

(RECORD all comments, especially about alerts. Did they notice them? Y/N)

- Edit
- Year discharge
     - Please tell me about what you see here.
     - (If alert is noticed) What does this mean to you? *I see that it may lead me new questions. I would push continue but I would hit the drop bar first. 
     - What would you do now?
- Month discharge *Changed the month and my answers are still there. 
- Continue to review screen
     - Please tell me about what you see here.
     - (If alert or updated answers are noticed) What does this mean to you?
     - What would you do now?

#### Option 2: Previous Application (Appears on some flows) (If p has not previously applied for discharge upgrade)

I’d like you to pretend that you have applied for a discharge upgrade.

Is there a way you could update that information from this page? *Click edit and go into it.

(RECORD all comments, especially about alerts. Did they notice them? Y/N)

- Edit
- Previous application
     - Please tell me about what you see here. *I’ll read here and I see that it may lead to more questions, which I know already. I will change from no, to yes. Then click continue.
     - (If alert is noticed) What does this mean to you?
     - What would you do now?
- Previous application year *I will pick either one. Most likely, after 2014. Then click continue. 
     - Can select either option
 
*To test Back button:*

- Previous application type or Prior Service
     - I'd like you to pause here before answering this question. * I would press go back.
     - Pretend that you need to change your answer to the last question. How would you do that? * I would change it and continue.
- (Navigate Back) Previous application year
     - Can select opposite option *Again, still confused with Honorable and General. Basically it’s the same category. 
*If I didn’t know, I’d probably get some help with this one. If I did know, I would select Yes and continue.
*If it’s red, it will direct me to stop. 
- Previous application type or Prior Service
     - Can select any option
     - Selecting BCNR will show Failure to Exhaust question *
- Failure to Exhaust
     - Can select any option 
- Continue to review screen
     - Please tell me about what you see here.
     - (If alert or updated answers are noticed) What does this mean to you? 
     - What would you do now?

#### Option 3: Edit non-branching question (If options 1 & 2 aren't valid)

I’d like you to pretend that you served in the [branch of service not selected].
(Options: Army, Navy, Air Force, Coast Guard, Marine Corps)

Is there a way you could update that information from this page?

(RECORD all comments, especially about alerts. Did they notice them? Y/N)

- Edit
- Branch of service
     - Please tell me about what you see here.
     - (If alert is noticed) What does this mean to you?
     - What would you do now?
- Continue to review screen
     - Please tell me about what you see here.
     - (If alert or updated answers are noticed) What does this mean to you?
     - What would you do now?

After you review your answers, could you tell me what you would do next?

Could you please select "Continue"?

### Fifth Task: Results screen

Please tell me about what you see here.

1. Why do you think you’re seeing this page?
2. What does this page mean to you?
3. What might be unclear to you?
4. What would you do next?

## Post-Task Interview
Type into #feedback-backchannel: "Any questions you want me to ask?"

1. What worked well for you? *The navigation and how simple the questions were. 
2. What was unclear or didn't work well for you? *No. Just the General and Honorable, and saving of the pages if I didn’t know it automatically saved. 
3. What would you like to change or add?
4. Is there anything else that we haven't talked about that you think I should know?

## Thank-You and Closing - 3 minutes
