# Notes: Discharge Upgrade Wizard Usability Testing

## Warm-up Questions
Before we look at the website, let’s start with a few warm-up questions.
1. I understand you are a Veteran. Is that right? *Veteran
     - Thanks for confirming that.
2. What kind of device are you using today? (Computer / Tablet / Smartphone) *iPhone. 
3. What web browser do you use? (Chrome / Firefox / Edge / Safari / _______) *Chrome. 
4. What assistive technology are you using right now? (screen reader / magnifier  _______________________) * I enlarge the font to be able to see. 
    
    - (If Dolphin screen reader, won't be able to share screen on Zoom)
    - (if no AT) Do you sometimes use assistive technology?
         - If so, what do you use and when?
              - Would you be willing to start using it now in this session?
              - (if not, discuss w/Amanda--run session w/o AT, or stop and ask Perigean for a replacement participant)
      
5. How would you rate your level of experience with using a screen (reader / magnifier)--beginner, intermediate, advanced, or expert? *Intermediate.
6. How long have you been using a screen (reader / magnifier)? *Since 2009.
7. Have you ever shared your screen in Zoom while using a screen (reader / magnifier)? (Yes / No)
     - (If Y) We'll ask you to share your screen later. Please make sure you have sound enabled.  *Probably have, I have done several of these.
     - (If N) No problem, [Laura/CAIA person] can help you do that.
8. Is there anything else that we can do to support you during this session? (RECORD AND DO!)
9. I will be sharing a web page link with you during the session. How would you prefer to
receive the URL? I could dictate it to you, or put it in the Zoom chat. (RECORD) *Zoom chat.
10. Do you know how discharge status relates to VA benefits? *Yes.
11. Are you familiar with the discharge upgrade process? * You get a rating to what is documented to what will be an ongoing problem. I know you go into the VA website and appeal decisions that have already been made and you can reapply for disability to be increased. 
     - (If Y) Have you applied for a discharge upgrade in the past?
          - (If Y) Can you tell me about your experience? (when, how, results)
     - (If N) No problem. You'll learn about it as we go through this session.

## User Tasks

### First Task: Open wizard
Let's suppose that (Google/VA.gov) led you to the web page that I'm going to show you. I'd
like you to try to use it, and please share your feedback while you're doing that. I'm interested
in your impressions of what you see, any questions that you have, and how you feel about
what you're doing. *I have it at 190% and I have readers on. 
*If one of these applied to me, I would get started at the link above. PTSD applies to me, I would click on that link. If I clicked on the VSO, that would take me to someone locally. 

### Second Task: Go through questions in wizard
Please try to **talk aloud** about what you're thinking and what you plan to do BEFORE selecting
anything.

(RECORD all feedback on questions. Note: Certain questions don’t appear on every flow.)

- Intro screen
     - especially if p has not previously applied for a discharge upgrade
- Service branch *Air Force.
- Year and month discharge *Before 1992.
- Reason *PTSD
     - If nothing applies, p should select “I suffered from an undiagnosed,
misdiagnosed, or untreated mental health condition, including posttraumatic
stress disorder (PTSD), while in the service. I was discharged for reasons related
to this condition.” *This isn't very clear. It’s making answer these questions to continue. 
- Intention
- Court martial
- Previous application questions
- Prior service

### Third Task: Review screen
(RECORD which answers they’ve selected, if possible)

Please tell me about what you see here. * I can go back to edit my answer. 

- What does this mean to you?
- What would you do now?
  
### Fourth Task: Edit a question - Pick 1 or 2 of these depending on time

#### Option 1: Year Discharge (Appears on every flow) (If selected year other than 2009)

I’d like you to pretend that you left the military in 2009.

Is there a way you could update that information from this page? *Yes.

(RECORD all comments, especially about alerts. Did they notice them? Y/N)

- Edit
- Year discharge
     - Please tell me about what you see here. * Edit year of discharge. 
     - (If alert is noticed) What does this mean to you?
     - What would you do now?
- Month discharge
- Continue to review screen
     - Please tell me about what you see here.
     - (If alert or updated answers are noticed) What does this mean to you?
     - What would you do now?

#### Option 2: Previous Application (Appears on some flows) (If p has not previously applied for discharge upgrade)

I’d like you to pretend that you have applied for a discharge upgrade.

Is there a way you could update that information from this page? *Yes.

(RECORD all comments, especially about alerts. Did they notice them? Y/N)

- Edit
- Previous application
     - Please tell me about what you see here. *I would click the back button. 
     - (If alert is noticed) What does this mean to you?
     - What would you do now? *Click continue.
- Previous application year
     - Can select either option
 
*To test Back button:*

- Previous application type or Prior Service
     - I'd like you to pause here before answering this question.
     - Pretend that you need to change your answer to the last question. How would you do that?
- (Navigate Back) Previous application year
     - Can select opposite option
- Previous application type or Prior Service
     - Can select any option
     - Selecting BCNR will show Failure to Exhaust question
- Failure to Exhaust
     - Can select any option 
- Continue to review screen
     - Please tell me about what you see here.
     - (If alert or updated answers are noticed) What does this mean to you? *This tells you how to complete your personnel record. That’s helpful. This would be a lot of work. No way to submit this form online. You can download the form but can’t scan it to submit it. 
*This leads me to believe that if I download this document, I can print it but can’t download it to some type of form where I can fill it out, save it and submit it and such is not the case. 
*Having to go through, and get a VSO to advocate on your behalf. Sometimes you have to wait depending on what state, can take a long time because you have to contact them, get the form, fax the form, take it to the VSO, lot of back and forth. There is no way around it. Some of these people don’t feel good and don’t want to go through all this. 
     - What would you do now? 

#### Option 3: Edit non-branching question (If options 1 & 2 aren't valid)

I’d like you to pretend that you served in the [branch of service not selected].
(Options: Army, Navy, Air Force, Coast Guard, Marine Corps)

Is there a way you could update that information from this page?

(RECORD all comments, especially about alerts. Did they notice them? Y/N)

- Edit
- Branch of service
     - Please tell me about what you see here.
     - (If alert is noticed) What does this mean to you?
     - What would you do now?
- Continue to review screen
     - Please tell me about what you see here.
     - (If alert or updated answers are noticed) What does this mean to you?
     - What would you do now?

After you review your answers, could you tell me what you would do next?

Could you please select "Continue"?

### Fifth Task: Results screen

Please tell me about what you see here.

1. Why do you think you’re seeing this page?
2. What does this page mean to you?
3. What might be unclear to you?
4. What would you do next?

## Post-Task Interview
Type into #feedback-backchannel: "Any questions you want me to ask?"

1. What worked well for you? *Most of it is self-explanatory. It’s emotionally disappointing that you have to download this page. I think it’s misleading. There are a lot of words on these three pages. It would take someone a long time to read all this. This is a little daunting. 
2. What was unclear or didn't work well for you? *They were very clear. I could read them. The Yes and No question about changing my DD214 was ambiguous. 
3. What would you like to change or add? *It’s a little wordy. I know it has to be but they are trying to cover a lot of ground in a few steps. That is why Vets have to hire someone or get a VSO. The last page in the form were wordy but the questions were direct. 
4. Is there anything else that we haven't talked about that you think I should know? No. Even though I’m looking at this through my Readers on, let me change my font size, I would have to magnify a lot more to be able to see it. I would not be able to see it without my Readers On. 

## Thank-You and Closing - 3 minutes
