# Notes: Discharge Upgrade Wizard Usability Testing

## Warm-up Questions
1. I understand you are a Veteran. Is that right? * Veteran.
     - Thanks for confirming that.
2. What kind of device are you using today? (Computer / Tablet / Smartphone) *Laptop.
3. I will be sharing a web page link with you during the session. How would you prefer to
receive the URL? I could dictate it to you, or put it in the Zoom chat. (RECORD) *Zoom chat.
4. Do you know how discharge status relates to VA benefits? *VA benefits some of them are limited or reduced if you don’t have a certain discharge. For some of them it doesn’t matter. 
5. Are you familiar with the discharge upgrade process? * Yes. I believe you submit a form with a statement related to why and once it’s accepted, there’s a review process and goes from there. 
     - (If Y) Have you applied for a discharge upgrade in the past? *Yes.
          i. (If Y) Can you tell me about your experience? (when, how, results)
     - (If N) No problem. You'll learn about it as we go through this session.

## User Tasks

### First Task: Open wizard
Let's suppose that (Google/VA.gov) led you to the web page that I'm going to show you. I'd
like you to try to use it, and please share your feedback while you're doing that. I'm interested
in your impressions of what you see, any questions that you have, and how you feel about
what you're doing. *Looks like it’s easier to find the link to the page than a few years ago. Some FAQs at the bottom are nice. I would click get started. 

### Second Task: Go through questions in wizard
Please try to **talk aloud** about what you're thinking and what you plan to do BEFORE selecting
anything.

(RECORD all feedback on questions. Note: Certain questions don’t appear on every flow.)

- Intro screen
     - especially if p has not previously applied for a discharge upgrade
- Service branch *Marine Corpse
- Year and month discharge *2008
- Reason *Checked bubble two. What if there were multiple selections I needed to check? When I went through my discharge, there were multiple options. If I chose the wrong one, that may have delayed the process. 
     - If nothing applies, p should select “I suffered from an undiagnosed,
misdiagnosed, or untreated mental health condition, including posttraumatic
stress disorder (PTSD), while in the service. I was discharged for reasons related
to this condition.” *I’m going to click no for now. 
- Intention
- Court martial
- Previous application questions
- Prior service

### Third Task: Review screen
(RECORD which answers they’ve selected, if possible)

Please tell me about what you see here.

- What does this mean to you? *Looks like it’s just a summary of what I entered and gives you the option to change the answer. 
- What would you do now?
  
### Fourth Task: Edit a question - Pick 1 or 2 of these depending on time

#### Option 1: Year Discharge (Appears on every flow) (If selected year other than 2009)

I’d like you to pretend that you left the military in 2009.

Is there a way you could update that information from this page? *Under the year discharge and edit. 

(RECORD all comments, especially about alerts. Did they notice them? Y/N)

- Edit
- Year discharge
     - Please tell me about what you see here.
     - (If alert is noticed) What does this mean to you?
     - What would you do now? *It’s interesting that if only asks for the month if you changed it. 
- Month discharge
- Continue to review screen
     - Please tell me about what you see here.
     - (If alert or updated answers are noticed) What does this mean to you?
     - What would you do now?

#### Option 2: Previous Application (Appears on some flows) (If p has not previously applied for discharge upgrade)

I’d like you to pretend that you have applied for a discharge upgrade.

Is there a way you could update that information from this page? *Edit, Yes, After 2014, then I would go back. 

(RECORD all comments, especially about alerts. Did they notice them? Y/N)

- Edit
- Previous application
     - Please tell me about what you see here.
     - (If alert is noticed) What does this mean to you?
     - What would you do now?
- Previous application year
     - Can select either option
 
*To test Back button:*

- Previous application type or Prior Service
     - I'd like you to pause here before answering this question.
     - Pretend that you need to change your answer to the last question. How would you do that? *The wording of this question is confusing. Is this that I think it was Honorable if I am applying for an upgrade, I’m assuming it is not general or honorable. 
- (Navigate Back) Previous application year
     - Can select opposite option
- Previous application type or Prior Service
     - Can select any option
     - Selecting BCNR will show Failure to Exhaust question
- Failure to Exhaust
     - Can select any option 
- Continue to review screen
     - Please tell me about what you see here.
     - (If alert or updated answers are noticed) What does this mean to you?
     - What would you do now?

#### Option 3: Edit non-branching question (If options 1 & 2 aren't valid)

I’d like you to pretend that you served in the [branch of service not selected].
(Options: Army, Navy, Air Force, Coast Guard, Marine Corps)

Is there a way you could update that information from this page?

(RECORD all comments, especially about alerts. Did they notice them? Y/N)

- Edit
- Branch of service
     - Please tell me about what you see here.
     - (If alert is noticed) What does this mean to you?
     - What would you do now?
- Continue to review screen
     - Please tell me about what you see here.
     - (If alert or updated answers are noticed) What does this mean to you?
     - What would you do now?

After you review your answers, could you tell me what you would do next? *Assuming everything is correct, I would click continue. 

Could you please select "Continue"?

### Fifth Task: Results screen

Please tell me about what you see here.

1. Why do you think you’re seeing this page? 
2. What does this page mean to you? *It’s nice to see that you can apply for the Physical Disability Board of Review, something I didn’t have access to before and then having that form available here instead of looking for it. It’s got a lot more information than what I was expecting. It’s pretty good, the buddy statements, maybe if there was more information on what that is or a link to example letters. It may be hard for that person to know what to write. So maybe if there is a link or some samples to how to write those things, maybe some information on that. 
3. What might be unclear to you? *Maybe some information on how long the process might take. I thought there was a website, mine took two years from the time I applied for the hearing. 

4. What would you do next? *I would print it out to have the address and the forms. If there was a way to check the status would be nice. Seems like once you print it out and mail it off.

## Post-Task Interview
Type into #feedback-backchannel: "Any questions you want me to ask?"

1. What worked well for you? *It seemed streamlined and easy to navigate through and having access to the specific form that needed to be filled out. Pretty straightforward. 
2. What was unclear or didn't work well for you? *Not really. 
3. What would you like to change or add? *Maybe a FAQs, having a collection of questions. 
4. Is there anything else that we haven't talked about that you think I should know?

## Thank-You and Closing - 3 minutes
