# Notes: Discharge Upgrade Wizard Usability Testing

## Warm-up Questions
Before we look at the website, let’s start with a few warm-up questions.
1. I understand you are a Veteran. Is that right? * Veteran
     - Thanks for confirming that.
2. What kind of device are you using today? (Computer / Tablet / Smartphone) *Speechify to read documents and the screen. I’m on my desktop. 
3. What web browser do you use? (Chrome / Firefox / Edge / Safari / _______) *Chrome.
4. What assistive technology are you using right now? (screen reader / magnifier _______________________) *
    
    - (If Dolphin screen reader, won't be able to share screen on Zoom)
    - (if no AT) Do you sometimes use assistive technology?
         - If so, what do you use and when?
              - Would you be willing to start using it now in this session?
              - (if not, discuss w/Amanda--run session w/o AT, or stop and ask Perigean for a replacement participant)
      
5. How would you rate your level of experience with using a screen (reader / magnifier)--beginner, intermediate, advanced, or expert? *Probably an average user, maybe an above average user. 
6. How long have you been using a screen (reader / magnifier)? *It’s been a year now, 11  months. 
7. Have you ever shared your screen in Zoom while using a screen (reader / magnifier)? (Yes / No) * I have not. The neat thing is that I can bring it up at any point.
     - (If Y) We'll ask you to share your screen later. Please make sure you have sound enabled. 
     - (If N) No problem, [Laura/CAIA person] can help you do that.
8. Is there anything else that we can do to support you during this session? (RECORD AND DO!) *Nope.
9. I will be sharing a web page link with you during the session. How would you prefer to
receive the URL? I could dictate it to you, or put it in the Zoom chat. (RECORD) *Zoom chat.
10. Do you know how discharge status relates to VA benefits? *I could say that , if you have a bad conduct or dishonorable discharge it would disable you from having honorable. 
11. Are you familiar with the discharge upgrade process? *I know you have submit, appeal to in my instance, appeal to have an upgrade discharge status. 
     - (If Y) Have you applied for a discharge upgrade in the past?
          - (If Y) Can you tell me about your experience? (when, how, results)
     - (If N) No problem. You'll learn about it as we go through this session.

## User Tasks

### First Task: Open wizard
Let's suppose that (Google/VA.gov) led you to the web page that I'm going to show you. I'd
like you to try to use it, and please share your feedback while you're doing that. I'm interested
in your impressions of what you see, any questions that you have, and how you feel about
what you're doing. 

### Second Task: Go through questions in wizard
Please try to **talk aloud** about what you're thinking and what you plan to do BEFORE selecting
anything.

(RECORD all feedback on questions. Note: Certain questions don’t appear on every flow.)

- Intro screen * I think for me, I found it easier to digest from different voices. The information that is out there helped me out. It’s nice that I went through it all, it was easier to digest it. The relation between Speechify and the information, it worked well. It was communicating with the VA site well. 
     - especially if p has not previously applied for a discharge upgrade
- Service branch 
- Year and month discharge
- Reason *First bubble checked off.
     - If nothing applies, p should select “I suffered from an undiagnosed,
misdiagnosed, or untreated mental health condition, including posttraumatic
stress disorder (PTSD), while in the service. I was discharged for reasons related
to this condition.”
- Intention *I just did the “I’m not sure button” I just didn’t know where I wanted to answer. I don’t know why I would have a discharge of PTSD, what type of paper would I have for a medical discharge. That is where I’m getting hung up. 
*I love when you hit “I’m not sure” it drops down carrots. 
- Court martial
- Previous application questions
- Prior service

### Third Task: Review screen
(RECORD which answers they’ve selected, if possible)

Please tell me about what you see here.

- What does this mean to you? *Validation page. I like seeing this. 
- What would you do now?
  
### Fourth Task: Edit a question - Pick 1 or 2 of these depending on time

#### Option 1: Year Discharge (Appears on every flow) (If selected year other than 2009)

I’d like you to pretend that you left the military in 2009.

Is there a way you could update that information from this page? *Click edit. 

(RECORD all comments, especially about alerts. Did they notice them? Y/N)

- Edit
- Year discharge
     - Please tell me about what you see here.
     - (If alert is noticed) What does this mean to you?
     - What would you do now?
- Month discharge
- Continue to review screen
     - Please tell me about what you see here.
     - (If alert or updated answers are noticed) What does this mean to you?
     - What would you do now?

#### Option 2: Previous Application (Appears on some flows) (If p has not previously applied for discharge upgrade)

I’d like you to pretend that you have applied for a discharge upgrade.

Is there a way you could update that information from this page? *Edit, continue. 

(RECORD all comments, especially about alerts. Did they notice them? Y/N)

- Edit
- Previous application
     - Please tell me about what you see here.
     - (If alert is noticed) What does this mean to you?
     - What would you do now?
- Previous application year
     - Can select either option
 
*To test Back button:*

- Previous application type or Prior Service
     - I'd like you to pause here before answering this question.
     - Pretend that you need to change your answer to the last question. How would you do that?
- (Navigate Back) Previous application year
     - Can select opposite option
- Previous application type or Prior Service
     - Can select any option
     - Selecting BCNR will show Failure to Exhaust question
- Failure to Exhaust
     - Can select any option 
- Continue to review screen
     - Please tell me about what you see here.
     - (If alert or updated answers are noticed) What does this mean to you?
     - What would you do now?

#### Option 3: Edit non-branching question (If options 1 & 2 aren't valid)

I’d like you to pretend that you served in the [branch of service not selected].
(Options: Army, Navy, Air Force, Coast Guard, Marine Corps)

Is there a way you could update that information from this page?

(RECORD all comments, especially about alerts. Did they notice them? Y/N)

- Edit
- Branch of service
     - Please tell me about what you see here.
     - (If alert is noticed) What does this mean to you?
     - What would you do now?
- Continue to review screen
     - Please tell me about what you see here.
     - (If alert or updated answers are noticed) What does this mean to you?
     - What would you do now?

After you review your answers, could you tell me what you would do next? * I like the flow. Sometimes I find that Speechify, it will hide behind what I can’t see. If I do a copy all, it will read that. Working down the information down the tasks, it brings you down to the form. I like this banner, big attention thing. Maybe another banner would be helpful to populate up,” Hey if you need assistance, a VSO can help”. 
*Speechify seems to struggle when I’m reading certain documents like science-related or journals. 
Could you please select "Continue"?

### Fifth Task: Results screen

Please tell me about what you see here.

1. Why do you think you’re seeing this page?
2. What does this page mean to you? *Again, hinting another VSO link, I like it. Just wanted to point that out. 
3. What might be unclear to you? *No. It’s all laid out well. 
4. What would you do next? * I would have this downloaded. I would make sure I had a checklist and have my military record and medical records compiled. I’d start to reach out to my Commands, supervisors, or things were they can provide supporting evidence. 

## Post-Task Interview
Type into #feedback-backchannel: "Any questions you want me to ask?"

1. What worked well for you? *Was the transition of information for the next step. 
2. What was unclear or didn't work well for you? *If I had to nitpick, it’s a long page, so maybe if there was a narrow page. 

3. What would you like to change or add? *No. it’s very clear. 
* I would only change to collapse it more down. 
4. Is there anything else that we haven't talked about that you think I should know? *Nope.

## Thank-You and Closing - 3 minutes
