# Notetaking for 2025-05 Save in Progress research study

## Warm-up Questions

Let's start with a few questions...

1. I understand you are a Veteran. Is that right? Yes.

1. What kind of device are you using today? Laptop
    * What operating system? Windows

1. What web browser do you use? Chrome

1. I will be sharing a web page link with you during the session. How would you prefer to receive the URL? I could dictate it to you, put it in the Zoom chat, email it to you, or _(for smartphone only)_ text it to you.

    * _(If text or email)_ Could the notetaker please text/email the link now? ([https://bit.ly/4lXVLTV](https://bit.ly/4lXVLTV)) -- after 4 is the lower case letter "L"

### For only assistive tech users

5. What assistive technology are you using right now? Zoom Magnification at 250%

1. How would you rate your level of experience with using a screen _(reader / magnifier)_--beginner, intermediate, advanced, or expert? Intermediate. 

1. How long have you been using a screen _(reader / magnifier)_? A little over 2 years.

1. Have you ever shared your screen in Zoom while using a screen _(reader / magnifier)_? No

1. Is there anything else that we can do to support you during this session? 

### For everyone

10. What VA benefits, if any, do you have experience with? Health care, education.

1. Have you ever filled out a VA form online before? (Laughs) Yeah.

    * If so, can you tell me about your most recent experience? How did it go? Very cumbersome, redundant asking for the same information over and over again. Very long and detailed. To reapply for my disability benefits. Through VA.gov
Sounds like it wasn’t a pleasant experience. Unfortunately, I had to come back to it a number of times, because it didn’t tell me what I needed to complete it. It took 3 tries. One time it froze up and I had to go all the way back to the beginning, it didn’t save my information, so I had to do it all over again. The second time it got to a point where I got frustrated, especially after having to redo everything. I was doing this by myself.

## User Tasks

### Task 0: Share screen

### Task 00: Open prototype

*Note to Chantel: During the user tasks, please especially try to record any comments about their **progress in filling out the form, saving their work, and their reactions to any error messages they see***

### Task 1: Form intro page

I'd like you to take a look at this page, and then use it to get your military records.
I’m thinking that I need to go down. (Paused to magnify the screen). Participant states they thought the screen was magnified. Most of the time I use Zoom magnification so that it is easier for me to see and get around. (screen magnified to 200%)
I would need to sign in first once I sign in it would bring me back to this page again. (Go ahead and sign in like you would, it won’t actually have you sign in).
Do you use Zoom through windows or through your browser like you just did? I use it through windows. Is the way that you just showed me how you usually do it? Yes (zoomed in through the browser)

### Task 2: Fill out form

Please fill out this form to request your own military records, but I want you to use fake details so you don't share your personal information with me. Participant fills out the form.

### Task 3: (After enter SSN) Short break in filling out form

Pretend that your doorbell just rang, and you want to jump up to answer it. What will you do with the form that you're in the middle of filling out?
I would click on finish later.
What do you think would happen? Hopefully it would save what I have done so far. Then when I came back I would be able to resume from where I left off. 
### Task 4: Resume filling out form

OK, now let's say that you're back from answering the door. Please continue filling out the form that you were working on. I would go to continue your request. Participant continues to fill out the form. Only struggle I observe is making up fake information. I am looking for my official military file, I am going to click on that and then hit continue.

### Task 5: (After specify records) Long break in filling out form

Say that you're really hungry and need to take a longer break to make a snack/lunch/dinner. What will you do with the form that you're filling out? I would hit finish later again. Then I would have my sandwich and the come back and do continue my request. 

### Task 6: Resume filling out form (again)

OK, pretend that you just finished your snack/lunch/dinner. Now you want to get back to the form you were filling out. How would you do that? It has in there that I asked for my own PF. Then hit continue. It has additional information. It’s optional. I wouldn’t put anything in there because it has my address. I was going to put in Pittsburgh PA, but it should already be in there. Then I hit continue. 
Puts PaVa regional for Va location. Then clicks continue. Now it lets me review it so here I would click on each one to make sure I got everything right. 
Can you close that for a minute? I see that you are opening them and then scrolling. Can you open one without scrolling? Sure. Did you scroll then? No.  Okay continue. 
I certify that my information is correct and then submit it. Oh no it says we can’t submit your request right now. ( yeah that’s the prototype)
You said in your comments about step 3 of 6. Can you tell me what you think about that? It could be streamlined; I don’t think it needs to be 6 pages.
Okay can you go back. So this is on 5, what do you make of the lines above the text that says 5 of 6. Can you see them? Yes, I didn’t really notice them. I can see them now that those are the steps and the blue one is where I am now. but, no I didn’t notice them before. 
Do you ever Zoom anything on your computer when you are not in your browser? Are there other ways that you Zoom? Yeah I use google, most of the time on my phone or my tablet it’s magnified and it stays that way.
So, you set it up on the phone or the tablet and it is always Zoomed in? Yes. But on the computer, you have to change it? Yes, I usually do that for my email or going on to like my HealtheVet. I will zoom it first. 
Are there any applications that you use on the computer that’s not in a web browser that you enlarge? Yeah, icons, you know anything that I have to go into the computer to do I’ll enlarge it. So like my pc cleaner that’s enlarged so I can see what it’s doing. (Do you have it already enlarged) yes. 
## Post-Task Interview

1. Overall, about everything on the website in this session...What worked _well_ for you?
It was easy to understand, easy to follow because it actually highlighted the number of the pages that I was going to have to fill out. I like that, but it was redundant, it was long and it could have been simplified on 3 pages I think. 
What did you feel was redundant? Like I said one page should have had all my personal info, all my demographics then go to the next page and select what I was requesting and then submit it.
1. What was _unclear_ or _didn't work well_ for you?
The only thing is that I didn’t notice the color bar up here, I didn’t equate that to anything. 
I know your screen was magnified. Was it on the screen or was it scrolled up? I was concentrating on the form, so it disappeared from the screen. (Because I was focused on the fields) 
Can you scroll to where you can see what you want to see? (the bars disappear from the screen)
1. What would you like to _change_ or _add_? No I don’t think so. Right now the way it’s set up with the VA I have to go to My HealtheVet I have to go to my records and then you know there’s 60 boxes. I wish things could be narrowed down. This form is much similar. 

1.	What kinds of online forms have you filled out before, and how does the process compare to the VA form you filled out today? Insurance, credit cards, banking, shopping. If you're filling out a form for like credit or something, it’s long and involved and very specific. I think that it’s more expanded information than if I were to go into use this to get records or something. Now when I have to go to a specialist outside of the VA, I have to fill out their forms and that’s long and very involved that want so much different information. That’s a very complicated form. 
So, this form is short, but the other forms you have talked about that are long. Do you have any comments between the VA forms and non-VA forms? They are similar because it wanted in-depth information. When you are filling out a form for an office that’s non-VA it’s about the here and now, a VA form is very in-depth.

1. When do you expect the information that you enter into an online form to be saved?
As I go through and fill out each area it should save it automatically, and then whether it’s page one or page 2 it should have a continue on there.  So, after I hit continue. 
So after you hit continue it should save everything on that page? Yes
Then what happens after you hit the finish later button? It looks like it save the information I filled out before I left.
So it seems like those 2 buttons are that saves things. Yeah I like the finish later, you don’t get that with other forms. What if you have to go to the restroom? You don’t want to leave the screen open who knows what can happen with the screen. You know some VA things have a timer and then you lose your information and have to redo it. 
What do you think would happen if you didn’t use those two buttons? I don’t think it would save. Finish later is like a pause it would save what you have done. 
Did you see anything that says how to save things? Not that I can tell.
1.	If you had a magic wand and could change anything about how we save your information before you submit a form, what would you want? I would like there to be an automatic save. You don’t have to go back. It would happen automatically as you go through. I filled out a form the other day, it said automatically saving so I knew right then and there if I had to leave even if my screen went blank it automatically saved up to my last entry.
What if I told you this form is doing that would you be surprised? Yes.
It’s actually doing that we are not doing a good job of expressing that to you.
Can you go back to the previous page, back to step one? Scroll down on this page, can you go back one more page? To the beginning? Yes.
Then scroll down, I want to get to the citizenship question. Oh, I didn’t even notice that. 
Now that you see it can you tell me what that means to you in your own words? It tells me everything that I put in is being automatically saved and if I need to stop my progress will already be in there for me to go back to.
What do you think we need to do to help get this message across? It needs to be in a color, in a visual that commands your attention. Like red, red to me is like wait a minute. 
This light blue is not doing it for you? No.
When you were filling this out you were scrolling down, did you need to scroll horizontally to see everything? No.
When you fill out those credit forms did you have to? Yes.
How does that make you feel? It can get really confusing, you’re only reading part of it and then you have to hit another button to continue reading and continue doing that through out the form.
So we did that on purpose. I think you said you could see everything. Yeah, I can see, it’s clean. It’s not this these tiny words of 600. 
Can you try to Zoom to 400% and see if you have to scroll. Nope it’s here! 
So when do you Zoom to 400% vs 200%? 400 sometimes hurts my eyes. 

1. Is there anything else that we haven't talked about that you think I should know?
I don’t know why it has finish later, when we already said it is saving everything. 
What if you were filling out this form on a public computer, how do you feel about leaving the browser open? No, anyone can see my information.
So that’s my answer why, it takes your information off the screen. So it’s saving this but I would still log off of this. I guess having this there it’s probably a good reminder that if you walk away you have confidence that you’re saving everything and come back to where you left off. 
I don’t understand the fruit buttons though. These are for my use and not part of the real page. 
## Thank You and Closing

Are you still okay if we use any video or audio clips from this session? Absolutely sure.

* _(yes / no)_

* _(If participant says yes)_ Is there any part of our discussion that you would NOT want shared in a video clip? No. 
