# Search Collaboration Workshop

## 2021-05-26 Part 3

### Attendees
- John Hashimoto
- Brian Lloyd
- Denise Coveyduc
- Marci McGuire
- Kelson Adams
- Sam Suddath
- Cindy Merrill
- Cassandra Allen
- Megan Gayle

### Agenda
 We'll return to our Mural board and decide on a few viable options to explore further.  

https://app.mural.co/t/vsa8243/m/vsa8243/1614368466212/d222fc25e8cf520934a6ec17da6cc446663c2da8

Since our last meeting, two ideas deemed non-viable have been denoted, and remainder are grouped by common theme -- meaning they can be done together, or doing one will remove the need for another.  

We'll bring those over in their groups and then identify: 
Which have research evidence to support
Which may be a challenge due to external resource constraints (CMS, content, etc.)
Which may warrant further research to support

From there, we'll vote on which initiatives make the most sense to delve into

### Notes
- The tickets from last session were grouped into common themes prior to this meeting
- The team talked through each of the grouped items and placed them on the opportunity matrix based on confidence in our ability to deliver and value.
- Sam and Kelson agree that the current solution they are using for typeahead (Downshift) is challenging to work with and has limitations.  If we move ahead with a universal typeahead, it would be a good oppportunity to consider a custom solution.
- We added one new option (recent searches in typeahead) - would function like Google search where your last few searches would show up.  There are privacy/security considerations for scenarios where someone searches for something personal while using a shared computer. 

### Decisions
- N/A

### Action Items
- John will meet with the PMs do determine which items to focus on
