
Warm-up questions (5 to 10 minutes)
I'd like to start now with learning a little more about your background.
•	Do you and [your family/the Veteran] primarily speak Spanish, English, or another language at home? Spanish and English. 
•	Can you tell me about your and [your family members'/the Veteran's] level of comfort with English vs. Spanish? We are fluent in both. 
•	Region: Panama city
In general, when you each need information, do you prefer to read it in English or Spanish?  Um, well both of them really. Well if the infomration is coming in Spanish, I can understand and read and don’t have an issues. If it comes in English and the same applies. I don’t have a preference for Spanish or English since I understand both. 
o	Are there specific kinds of information or topics that you specifically prefer in Spanish? Can you tell me more about this?
•	Can you tell me about any VA benefits or services that you, or your family members, use or have used in the past?
•	Do you help your family manage any of their benefits or services or vice versa? No, we both are fluent in both. So we understand and comprehend both English and Spanish very good. 
Now, I’m going to ask you to think about the tasks you do prior to a VA medical appointment, such as checking in.
•	Do you recall which type of tasks you were asked to complete? Yes, I was sent a text message reminder of my upcoming appointment. Date/time/location, that good stuff. So I went to my va appointment. Appointment was in person so when I got there I was told to go to the kiosk. Then I put in my infomraiton, DOB, to confirm I was there.  
•	Experience: to me the kiosk don’t work for me since I am blind, either in Spanish or English I cant type in my DOB. So it the language wouldn’t have been a factor in successful use. 
•	Screen reader: yes. 
•	Curious if you have interacted or know other Veterans or caregivers with low English proficiency? The format that the va has adopted for sign in needs to be corrected because they are not as familiar as most of us. The problem for kiosks is low level English speakers. 
•	Kiosk is the issue: correct. .
•	Issues with friends: yes. 
Testing of Spanish content (20 minutes)
I want you to pretend that you have an upcoming appointment with your VA primary care provider via the phone and you receive the following text a few days beforehand. At this point, I’m going to share my screen. I will walk you through each screen and ask you a few questions as we go. Please remember, there are no right or wrong answers. I appreciate your honest feedback.
For each Spanish-translated screen for pre-check-in and check-in, ask:
Text is to small read and cannot increase it on the screen to see. 
Ever come across Spanish content in Spanish for va or interact in English: it tends to be in English but the content from VA is a majority in English. 
Rarely if at all come across in Spanish content for va: For an appointment the text is in English if they send me a reminder in the mail its in English. So theres not that infomration in the Spanish speaking community. I am using it as my experience. Infomration comes in English. 
Can you tell me what this page is asking you to do?  It is telling me to register with the va. it says that they need certain infomration to be able to complete the registration. Did you want me to read in in Spanish or English. One of the lines it asks the veterans for the last 4 of the SSN. 
•	What, if anything, do you find confusing? No not on this form. It seems low level Spanish. What I am saying is that the language is basic Spanish. 6th -9th grade Spanish. It’s nothing I would need a dictionary to lookup and understand it. 
What does this say: It is instructing everyone to fill out the registration prior to arriving. It is saying that the answers will help the appointment to attend to the needs that are filling out this notice. 
Anything unclear: it is straight forward. It is telling the person that answers the notice it will help them provide a better service. 
What is this asking, anything confusing: above the line please slide it down slightly. Alright it is indicating to the person filling out the request to start here and it has the arrow that basically indicates the start point. Then asks them to respond to the questions than below it says the va will ask, I am getting two interpretations of what the va wants. VA will ask for this information for, theres a cut off right there. It is saying the infomraiton that is being asked is for health reasons. 
Va is asking for health infomraiton, correct: No the information that is being asked for is because they need is for health reasons. Again I am interrupting  it, they aren’t asking for a claim or anything it is for health. This is another one that’s simple to understand. 
Nothing confusing: no ma’am. Do you guys understand that I luckily can understand both and have a understand of technology. I think technology will play an important role in what we are doing right now. 
How so: I think more towards the elderly. We see a lot of elderly vets are not tech savvy and for example when you sent the notice and I knew to go to zoom and go do this but I don’t think everyone is instructed like this. This is a personal one, I went to zoom so I went to zoom and nothing was happening and why didn’t you come into the zoom call. That could come into play when understanding. 
What is this telling you: It is asking the question that is filling out the form if this is their address. Below that it is saying if they need to make any changes to the address to make sure it is the correct infomraiton that they are going to provide. 
Anything unclear or confusing: no this is again straightforward. 
Follow-up questions
•	Overall, what information if anything, is missing for non-English speakers/LEP?
•	Overall, what, if anything, would you improve?
•	On a scale from 1 (very unclear) to 10 (very clear), how would you rate the clarity of the Spanish content? Please explain.
•	On a scale from 1 to 10 (where 1 is very unsatisfied, and 10 is very satisfied), how would you rate the overall Spanish language experience of pre-check-in and check-in? Please explain.
