Conversation guide for Spanish Check-in & Toggle Design
I have started recording. I'd like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record my screen and the audio as we talk today?
PART 1: Spanish content
Warm-up questions (5 to 10 minutes)
I'd like to start now with learning a little more about your background.
Do you and [your family/the Veteran] primarily speak Spanish, English, or another language at home?
“At home, strictly Spanish.”
Can you tell me about your and [your family members'/the Veteran's] level of comfort with English vs. Spanish?
“My wife has a little difficulty but I’m comfortable in English. I am fluent in both. Wife is more fluent in Spanish.”
“I was born and raised in Puerto Rico. I did not speak English until I joined the military. I only knew Spanish.”
In general, when you each need information, do you prefer to read it in English or Spanish?
Why or why not?
“Now, English. Since there are different dialects of Spanish, it’s difficult to understand.”
Are there specific kinds of information or topics that you specifically prefer in Spanish? Can you tell me more about this?
Can you tell me about any VA benefits or services that you, or your family members, use or have used in the past?
“Yes. I help my wife and brother because they are more fluent in Spanish.”
Do you help your family manage any of their benefits or services or vice versa? Tell me more.
“Family member benefits. Since I am getting older, my wife won’t know what to do in their natural language. If my wife becomes a caregiver, she will have trouble navigating.”
Now, I’m going to ask you to think about the tasks you do prior to a VA medical appointment, such as checking in.
Do you recall which type of tasks you were asked to complete (if any)?
“Just check-ins and how to check-in before you arrive.” 
As a bilingual Veteran, were there any tasks you think was missing or could have been helpful for Spanish-speaking Veterans?
Curious if you have interacted or know other Veterans or caregivers with low English proficiency? (if yes), are you familiar with what their check in experience is like at the VA?
“My brother gets his information transferred from Puerto Rico to Colorado. Majority of the issues are the benefits. They aren’t aware of their resources. They aren’t clear enough. I help out my brother-in-law with the content.”
Testing of Spanish content (20 minutes)
I want you to pretend that you have an upcoming appointment with your VA primary care provider via the phone and you receive the following text a few days beforehand. At this point, I’m going to share my screen. I will walk you through each screen and ask you a few questions as we go. Please remember, there are no right or wrong answers. I appreciate your honest feedback.
For each Spanish-translated screen for pre-check-in and check-in, ask:
Can you tell me what this page is asking you to do?
“Register with the VA. It asks for my last name and last 4 digits of my Social.”
What, if anything, do you find confusing? Why or why not?
“It’s awesome. I like that I can choose between English and Spanish.”
Is any information missing?
“I would use familia instead of pariente.”
 
Can you tell me what this page is asking you to do?
“The next page asks for my address and email addresses. If I click ‘No’, will it let me Edit?”
What, if anything, do you find confusing? Why or why not?
“No.”
Is any information missing?
“The ‘Type of care’, ‘provider’, and ‘location’ is not in Spanish. I would use Spanish words for those.”
Second Prototype
Can you tell me what this page is asking you to do?
“Answer questions before my arrival.”
What, if anything, do you find confusing? Why or why not?
“The ‘need assistance?’ part is confusing. Is that for assistance when I arrive to the appt?”
Is any information missing?
“Again, I would use family member – familia.”
Follow-up questions
Overall, what information if anything, is missing for non-English speakers/LEP?
Overall, what, if anything, would you improve?
On a scale from 1 (very unclear) to 10 (very clear), how would you rate the clarity of the Spanish content? Please explain.
“A 7 or 8. Some of the wording was confusing and mismatched English and Spanish.”
On a scale from 1 to 10 (where 1 is very unsatisfied, and 10 is very satisfied), how would you rate the overall Spanish language experience of pre-check-in and check-in? Please explain.
“A 10. It’s good to have both languages as an option.”
Thank-You and Closing - 2 minutes
We really appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us today. Your feedback is so helpful to us as we continue to work on the site and make sure it serves the needs of all Veterans and their family members and caregivers. Thanks! If you know any other Veterans, caregivers, or service members who might be willing to participate in a future research session like this one, you can pass along the email blurb that you’ll receive from our team.

