Conversation guide for Spanish Check-in & Toggle Design
I have started recording. I'd like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record my screen and the audio as we talk today?
PART 2: Language Toggle Design
Warm-up Questions - 10 minutes
To start, I’d like to learn a little more about your background.
Do you and [your family/the Veteran] primarily speak Spanish, English, or another language at home?
“My original family we spoke only Spanish in the house. My family now primarily speaks English. I was born in Mexico.”
Can you tell me about your and [your family members'/the Veteran's] level of comfort with English vs. Spanish?
“My original family was very comfortable with Spanish. My mother wasn’t good at English. I still speak to my mother in Spanish. We weren’t allowed to speak English in the house so we could keep up our Spanish.”
In general, when you each need information, do you prefer to read it in English or Spanish? Why or why not?
“I would learn towards English. My ability to read Spanish is good. English is a little bit faster for me. Either way, doesn’t matter to me.”
Are there specific kinds of information or topics that you specifically prefer in Spanish? Can you tell me more about this?
“I prefer to read in Spanish when the original language was written in Spanish.”
Do you help your family manage any of their benefits or services or vice versa? Tell me more.
“No. I live alone. I am not married anymore and my children are grown.”
Do you set your browser to Spanish or use Google translate? Why or why not?
“No. If I need Spanish I go to the Settings in the top right to change the language.”
Where do you expect to find a language toggle or switch if translated content is provided on a website?
“Top right hand of browser.”
When you go online, what type of device do you usually use (like a desktop computer, laptop, or mobile phone)?
Now, I’m going to ask you to think about the tasks you do prior to a VA medical appointment, such as checking in.
Do you recall which type of tasks you were asked to complete (if any)?
“Video on demand is what I do and get the link from my email. I don’t have a lot to manage with my medical records. My doctor makes me call in my prescription every month.”
“I get asked my birthday, name, scan my card.”
As a bilingual Veteran, were there any tasks you think was missing or could have been helpful for Spanish-speaking Veterans?
“I never look at the screen to see if there is an option for Spanish. I don’t remember if the check-in screen has asked me which language I want it in.”
“My sister and I speak both languages very well. I’ve lived in the United States most of my life.”
Curious if you have interacted or know other Veterans or caregivers with low English proficiency? (if yes), are you familiar with what their check in experience is like at the VA?
“I haven’t ever discussed with anyone who speaks Spanish. I know people that go into the military and don’t speak good English. After their service, they are fluent in English because that’s all they speak. Although I’ve served with those people, I can’t say if they would struggle with reading the check-in screen.”
First Task: Toggle 5-second test (10 minutes)
Now I'm going to ask you to think about the last time you checked in for an in-person medical appointment. I’ll be showing you 3 designs in total. I’ll share each design briefly. I’ll then ask you some questions. I’m sharing the screen now. Note: the order of the designs shows will vary between all participants
[Show first toggle design for 5 seconds and show a blank slide]
Follow-up questions after showing each toggle design:
What grabbed your attention if anything?
“I saw VA at the top. I think it said something about VA check in.”
What functions does it provide?
“Check-in.”
What words or sentences can you recall if anything?
[Show the slide of the second toggle design for 5 seconds]
Follow-up questions after showing each toggle design:
What grabbed your attention if anything?
“It said something about Engish, Spanish, at the top. It had the same two blocks.”
What functions does it provide?
“Check-in.”
What words or sentences can you recall if anything?
[Show the slide of the third toggle design for 5 seconds]
Follow-up questions after showing each toggle design:
What grabbed your attention if anything?
“It had the same blocks but language functions at the bottom.”
What functions does it provide?
“Check-in at the VA.”
What words or sentences can you recall if anything?
[Show both designs]
I'd like to bring your attention to the header (the area at the top) and footer (the area at the bottom):
What do you notice about these two areas?
“Two had language functions at the top.”
Can you tell me more about how the header and footer impact your experience?
“If I wanted Spanish, I would prefer the language function be first. I want that function up there. If it’s down at the bottom, I may not get to that.” 
I’d like to talk about the language switch on the top section of the page.
What do you notice about the language switch?
How do you expect it to work?
“It may give me a list of languages to pick. It also says Spanish at the top instead of Espanol. If it’s only two other languages, why would I need to go to another page?”
If you click on the continue button, do you think it will show an English page or a Spanish page?
“I think it’ll show English because it’s selected English in the first two. The last one I don’t know but I think is selected in English.”
What would you change about the design if anything?
“The third only shows it has two other language options. I think it’s easier to go straight to it. From my perspective, I want it at the top. It would be quick.”
What would the ‘X’ icon do?
“That would get rid of that message. I would expect it not to be there if I click on the icon.”
[Follow-up questions]
Which, if any, design do you prefer? Why or why not?
“The second one because the words are larger and language option right at the top.”
Where do you expect to find a toggle on VA website if translated content is provided?
How do you expect to be notified about the new language function?
Second Task: Toggle usability testing (15 minutes)
Note: the order of the designs shows will vary between all participants
[Participants viewing the toggle design in pre-check-in flow] I want you to pretend that you have an upcoming appointment with your VA primary care provider via the phone and you receive the following text a few days beforehand. At this point, I would like you to share your screen, so we can see the text too. I've sent you a link in the chat to prototype. Please cut and paste this link into your browser. Thank you.
Please take a moment to interact with this prototype. Please talk-aloud as you complete the task. And there are no right or wrong answers, I appreciate your honest feedback.
[Participants viewing the toggle design in check-in flow] I want you to pretend that you have an upcoming appointment with your VA primary care provider via the phone. You see a poster at the clinic, text to the number on the poster and receive a link. At this point, I would like you to share your screen, so we can see the text too. I've sent you a link in the chat to prototype. Please cut and paste this link into your browser. Thank you.
[Link in the chat: link to a prototype combination, which includes Current toggle, Toggle Design #1, and Toggle Design #2]
Questions to ask after a participant try out each toggle design:
Does the language toggle switch work as you expected? Why or why not?
What do you like about the design? What do you dislike about the design?
“Sometimes in Mexico they can have multiple last names.”
What, if anything, can be improved?
 
Does the language toggle switch work as you expected? Why or why not?
What do you like about the design? What do you dislike about the design?
“I like that the toggle is still on the top. The statement at the top seems very translated. I wouldn’t change anything except how its worded. If I click no it’ll take me to an edit page. The toggle is nice and bold at the top.”
What, if anything, can be improved?
“I wouldn’t change anything, it’s very straight forward.”
 
Does the language toggle switch work as you expected? Why or why not?
“I don’t know why switching the language is in both places. It’s just as easy to switch it directly.”
What do you like about the design? What do you dislike about the design?
“More space is being taken up. The switch doesn’t work as expected. I thought it would take me to another page. Not helpful because I have to go from top to bottom.”
What, if anything, can be improved?
 
Post-Toggle Testing Questions
(Show the slide showing 3 designs: the current toggle, and the 2 toggle designs) On a scale from 1 to 10 (where 1 is very unsatisfied, and 10 is very satisfied), how would you rate your experience with these 3 designs? Which, if any, do you prefer? Please rank.
Design 1:
“Probably a 9. I would expect the entire page to be in Spanish if I toggle to Spanish. Even the bottom of the page.”
Design 2:
“I think the 5 bars at the bottom are part of the ‘Need help?’ section. I would say 10.”
Design 3:
“Last one I give a 6.”
Thank-You and Closing - 2 minutes
We really appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us today. Your feedback is so helpful to us as we continue to work on the site and make sure it serves the needs of all Veterans and their family members and caregivers. Thanks! If you know any other Veterans, caregivers, or service members who might be willing to participate in a future research session like this one, you can pass along the email blurb that you’ll receive from our team.

