Conversation guide for Spanish Check-in & Toggle Design
I have started recording. I'd like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record my screen and the audio as we talk today?
PART 2: Language Toggle Design
Warm-up Questions - 10 minutes
To start, I’d like to learn a little more about your background.
Do you and [your family/the Veteran] primarily speak Spanish, English, or another language at home?
“All of my relatives speak Spanish. The only person I don’t speak Spanish with is my son because he is still learning.”
Can you tell me about your and [your family members'/the Veteran's] level of comfort with English vs. Spanish?
“My level of comfort is high with reading and speaking both English and Spanish. My mother is more comfortable with reading and speaking Spanish.
“My Spanish is from the Dominican Republic.”
In general, when you each need information, do you prefer to read it in English or Spanish? Why or why not?
“No preference. I do both when I watch TV. I read articles in Spanish sometimes.”
Are there specific kinds of information or topics that you specifically prefer in Spanish? Can you tell me more about this?
“I do prefer to have medical information in Spanish for my mother to also read over. It was hard for me to reassure my mom about my recent back surgery because she couldn’t read about it.”
Do you help your family manage any of their benefits or services or vice versa? Tell me more.
“I help my mom with her bills, travelling, and going to the doctor with her.
“My mom doesn’t use the VA. The doctors ask me to translate for her. She worries I am not telling her all of the information.”
Do you set your browser to Spanish or use Google translate? Why or why not?
“I use google translate for my son. Sometimes he does get Spanish in some classes. For the most part, I use translate services.”
Where do you expect to find a language toggle or switch if translated content is provided on a website?
“Some pages have it on the bottom to switch to Spanish. I would use the tool if I’m with my family and they also want to read it.” 
“I’ve seen them on both the top and bottom. If I don’t see anything on the top, I would go all the way to the bottom to look for it.”
When you go online, what type of device do you usually use (like a desktop computer, laptop, or mobile phone)?
Now, I’m going to ask you to think about the tasks you do prior to a VA medical appointment, such as checking in.
Do you recall which type of tasks you were asked to complete (if any)?
“I will just check in-person. I haven’t had to check in on the kiosk.”
As a bilingual Veteran, were there any tasks you think was missing or could have been helpful for Spanish-speaking Veterans?
“I think that being able to use the self-check on the kiosk would be helpful because you can switch the language of it. Having someone on call at the VA that speaks Spanish that can come and assist would also be helpful.”
Curious if you have interacted or know other Veterans or caregivers with low English proficiency? (if yes), are you familiar with what their check in experience is like at the VA?
“I will help someone out at the VA if they need it. At our VA, we have English and Spanish speaking personnel to help if needed.”
First Task: Toggle 5-second test (10 minutes)
Now I'm going to ask you to think about the last time you checked in for an in-person medical appointment. I’ll be showing you 3 designs in total. I’ll share each design briefly. I’ll then ask you some questions. I’m sharing the screen now. Note: the order of the designs shows will vary between all participants
[Show first toggle design for 5 seconds and show a blank slide]
Follow-up questions after showing each toggle design:
What grabbed your attention if anything?
“Where I would put my username and password. It provides me to log into the VA system.”
What functions does it provide?
“Logging in.”
What words or sentences can you recall if anything?
[Show the slide of the second toggle design for 5 seconds]
Follow-up questions after showing each toggle design:
What grabbed your attention if anything?
“It has the last 4 of my SSN and contact information at the bottom.
What functions does it provide?
What words or sentences can you recall if anything?
[Show the slide of the third toggle design for 5 seconds]
Follow-up questions after showing each toggle design:
What grabbed your attention if anything?
“If you need help, it’s at the bottom of the page. The top has your log in information.”
What functions does it provide?
What words or sentences can you recall if anything?
[Show both designs]
I'd like to bring your attention to the header (the area at the top) and footer (the area at the bottom):
What do you notice about these two areas?
“On the top I see where you can switch the language and it has an arrow going down.”
Can you tell me more about how the header and footer impact your experience?
“It would impact my Spanish because now I can switch everything on the page to Spanish. It’s a plus because I can just click it at the top and I won’t have to search for it.”
“If I spoke another language not provided, I would click the plus sign for ‘Learning assistance’ on the bottom to switch the language.”
I’d like to talk about the language switch on the top section of the page.
What do you notice about the language switch?
How do you expect it to work?
“If I click switch language, it could either take me to the bottom to choose which language or give a drop down of language options.”
If you click on the continue button, do you think it will show an English page or a Spanish page?
“If I chose Spanish, I would expect to see it in Spanish on all the pages.”
What would you change about the design if anything?
“I would just have a pop up saying we have other languages and to go down the page to select.”
What would the ‘X’ icon do?
“You lose it. You won’t have it. The question is how long will it stay up for?”
“If I click the ‘X’ and click ‘Continue’, I wouldn’t expect to see the pop up on the next page.”
[Follow-up questions]
Which, if any, design do you prefer? Why or why not?
“I like the 3rd design because its right at the top. They don’t have to go down the screen to look for switching the language.”
Where do you expect to find a toggle on VA website if translated content is provided?
“On the top and I would assume every page would be translated to the language I chose in the beginning.”
How do you expect to be notified about the new language function?
“Could be in the emails that go out that we receive from the VA. I would expect a general announcement by sending a letter but that would cost a lot. I would put a banner on the website saying it’s now available in different languages.”
Second Task: Toggle usability testing (15 minutes)
Note: the order of the designs shows will vary between all participants
[Participants viewing the toggle design in pre-check-in flow] I want you to pretend that you have an upcoming appointment with your VA primary care provider via the phone and you receive the following text a few days beforehand. At this point, I would like you to share your screen, so we can see the text too. I've sent you a link in the chat to prototype. Please cut and paste this link into your browser. Thank you.
Please take a moment to interact with this prototype. Please talk-aloud as you complete the task. And there are no right or wrong answers, I appreciate your honest feedback.
[Participants viewing the toggle design in check-in flow] I want you to pretend that you have an upcoming appointment with your VA primary care provider via the phone. You see a poster at the clinic, text to the number on the poster and receive a link. At this point, I would like you to share your screen, so we can see the text too. I've sent you a link in the chat to prototype. Please cut and paste this link into your browser. Thank you.
[Link in the chat: link to a prototype combination, which includes Current toggle, Toggle Design #1, and Toggle Design #2]
Questions to ask after a participant try out each toggle design:
Does the language toggle switch work as you expected? Why or why not?
“Yes. It’s helpful because I can switch and it automatically translates everything on the page.”
What do you like about the design? What do you dislike about the design?
“I like when I click switch language it takes me to the bottom.”
“If I needed to update my information, I would click ‘No’ and hope it gives me another prompt. This is interesting because they don’t confirm this information in-person.”
What, if anything, can be improved?
“What if someone accidently clicks the ‘X’ and then can’t get it back?”
 
Does the language toggle switch work as you expected? Why or why not?
“I like that I’m not searching to switch the language and its right on the top.”
What do you like about the design? What do you dislike about the design?
“This one is simpler. It doesn’t give me the option to ‘X’ out. It’s cleaner and there isn’t a way to accident click the ‘X’.”
What, if anything, can be improved?
“If there are going to be other languages, have those at the top as well.”
 
Does the language toggle switch work as you expected? Why or why not?
“Everything is at the top. I don’t have to go looking for it.”
What do you like about the design? What do you dislike about the design?
“This would be best because I have all the language options at the top. If adding other languages, I would add ‘Others’ at the top as well.”
What, if anything, can be improved?
 
Post-Toggle Testing Questions
(Show the slide showing 3 designs: the current toggle, and the 2 toggle designs) On a scale from 1 to 10 (where 1 is very unsatisfied, and 10 is very satisfied), how would you rate your experience with these 3 designs? Which, if any, do you prefer? Please rank.
Design 1:
“A 9.”
Design 2:
“An 8.”
Design 3:
“A 10.”
Thank-You and Closing - 2 minutes
We really appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us today. Your feedback is so helpful to us as we continue to work on the site and make sure it serves the needs of all Veterans and their family members and caregivers. Thanks! If you know any other Veterans, caregivers, or service members who might be willing to participate in a future research session like this one, you can pass along the email blurb that you’ll receive from our team.
