
Warm-up questions (5 to 10 minutes)
I'd like to start now with learning a little more about your background.
Do you and [your family/the Veteran] primarily speak Spanish, English, or another language at home? 
The only one that speaks Spanish is me, my wife is Filipino. My children speak English and Filipino.  I am from Puerto Rico. 
In general, when you each need information, do you prefer to read it in English or Spanish?
 I can go either way so I can read both. I am a native speaker of both born in New York. Up until 2nd grade I spoke mostly English then moved to Puerto Rico and finished school there. 
Are there specific kinds of information or topics that you specifically prefer in Spanish? Can you tell me more about this? 
No preference, Spanish is used when speaking with family or translating. I was a translator helping people get issues solved as a mediator and they would call me when they needed assistance with a case and I did document translation. 
Can you tell me about any VA benefits or services that you, or your family members, use or have used in the past? 
My coordinator called me. 
Asked anything prior or sent anything:
 not in reference to that appointment because it doesn’t require testing. It was just to find out if my equipment is working or if I have needs that haven’t been met. To verify the equipment arrived and I got the training for it. 
Curious if you have interacted or know other Veterans or caregivers with low English proficiency? (if yes), are you familiar with what their check in experience is like at the VA? 
We don’t talk about it. I have a man I consider my brother; he lives in NC and I was there to feed his chickens a few days ago. we don’t talk about that. 
Testing of Spanish content (20 minutes)
For each Spanish-translated screen for pre-check-in and check-in, ask:
Can you tell me what this page is asking you to do? 
It says part of it can be in English, I can choose English or Spanish. It says register in va not with va. it should be con instead of en. (reading page) than the continue button and a question if you need assistance. What personal will I ask, what are you trying to say there.  I am online in my house and then it says contact us. Maybe I can help you translate it better. So what are they trying to say there. But that doesn’t make sense, what staff member will I ask if I am at home. 
What, if anything, do you find confusing? Why or why not? 
it is easy to understand but one thing I would like to see is the means to increase the fonts or flip the background. I am legally blind and know others that have contrast issues. So dark backgrounds are better, we are the most forgotten veterans because the blind or visually  impaired there is nothing oriented for us. I haven’t seen a government site made for us. We lost our vision due to our service and my vision gets blurry so increasing the fonts can help me. especially if on the phone. Its clear, font size is good, I would eliminate the staff member because I’m on the phone at the house. Now if they had a special number for customer service and call this number for asisiatnce that would be different. 
 
Can you tell me what this page is asking you to do? Why is the appointment 12 august. 
Allows selection for English or Spanish. I know in English it means before your arrival but to me it would be awkward. Its just a play on words in Spanish to say the same thing. It should be of your arrival. It says reply to these questions before the arrival but it should be your arrival. It says the answers will help they prepare for my needs, that’s okay. Then the other is in Spanglish. They completely missed that. Okay in person is type. Why is facility in English. That means a timeframe or schedule when time is ..(stated in Spanish) same thing on the next one. What are they trying to ask in the question. 
What do you think it means: 
it’s a question but the way it is put together doesn’t look right, is it for me to ask will the va protect my health infomraiton but the va and protect need to be inverted. Actually it should be (In Spanish). 
Sentence structure awkward: I can tell it was done through google translate. (fixes it in Spanish) put el in between va. for will the va protect my personal health information. El means the and it needs to be in between. The next block of works, we wouldn’t say that. It would sound better if it said (Spoken in Spanish) it would mean we strive to out maximum to protect your privacy and surety of your infomraiton. Instead of maintaining put protect. You notice here it says protect. 
 
Can you tell me what this page is asking you to do? It is asking about my contact information. (corrected words in Spanish) 
Grammar or just incorrect: it is the wrong word. Actual means now in this moment but if I read it, it says is your contact infomration actual. It should say up to date. It should be correct. (Corrects words in Spanish) this asks is this, okay its because they skipped and put the address down here. If you need to make change should be after the address. I hadn’t read below that. I would move those two pieces, put that at the end of the infomraiton. Put it after the infomration that needs to be verified.  
 
Can you tell me what this page is asking you to do? 
The word actual can be eliminated, it will give the same question because it means now. Is this your emergency contact, without the word actual it means now. If you asked in the past it would be structured differently. If it were for the future it would be worded differently. The way it is structured means now. 
 
Can you tell me what this page is asking you to do? 
Again remove actual be ed means now. Current. Is this your current closest relative. If you print this on the long run it saves a lot of money on ink. 
 
Can you tell me what this page is asking you to do?
it doesn’t have the question marks at the start or end. Have I completed the registration before I arrived. (corrected sentence in Spanish) 
What, if anything, do you find confusing? Why or why not? 
(corrected sentence in Spanish. It may be used in other central American countries but it would be understood by everyone. 
why do they change from my needs to my appointments. It said to prepare for my needs at the beginning but now it says for my appointments. If I say needs it could mean other needs instead of health needs. This tells me for my appointment here. The question above asks if I have any questions about my appointment. 
Clear or confusing here: there are parts that need to be taken out, questions to complete you can take out (Spanish) 
When read as is: I can tell it was translated by google translate, not by a person. 
Referring, how tis read: it doesn’t make sense. It’s like you don’t speak Spanish. This is talking to me as you don’t understand how to formula a question in the language. (corrects the sentence in Spanish) I like that it says if you have hearing loss to call 711.  
Words were not translated: they did not use someone that knows how to translate. Now they use the programs to translate but didn’t proofread. 
 
Follow-up questions
Overall, what information if anything, is missing for non-English speakers/LEP?
Overall, what, if anything, would you improve?
On a scale from 1 (very unclear) to 10 (very clear), how would you rate the clarity of the Spanish content? Please explain.
On a scale from 1 to 10 (where 1 is very unsatisfied, and 10 is very satisfied), how would you rate the overall Spanish language experience of pre-check-in and check-in? Please explain.
