
Warm-up questions (5 to 10 minutes)
I'd like to start now with learning a little more about your background.
Do you and [your family/the Veteran] primarily speak Spanish, English, or another language at home? 
English and basically it’s a combo of both English and Spanish. 
Can you tell me about your and [your family members'/the Veteran's] level of comfort with English vs. Spanish? 
I am more comfortable with English but I was raised in south America, Columbia so I am comfortable with both. 
In general, when you each need information, do you prefer to read it in English or Spanish?
 	English. It is more precise and easier. 
Do you feel like the Spanish content online is less precise or clear: 
Yes its basically the fact that most misunderstand the fact that the Latin America is put into one pot. Someone raised in different parts it is so huge, its two different cultures and languages. My wife is an interpreter for social services. That’s an issues the VA will have, a vet of someone of Mexican background of Chilean or a different culture to speak. 
Do you find in general would there be a type of content you would like in Spanish: 
I think for your purposes it is hard to believe a veteran of a Hispanic background that they wouldn’t prefer English. Because of the background of French, Anglo Saxon, German, it is more precise in scientific. It is easier and more precise, nothing against Spanish as a language there are many wonder Spanish speaking scientists but English is better. Any veteran that has been in   shouldn’t have an issues understanding English and prefer it. 
Can you tell me about any VA benefits or services that you, or your family members, use or have used in the past? 
No and the va here is one of the best in the country. The video contact was the best. 
Reminder received: yes. 
Curious if you have interacted or know other Veterans or caregivers with low English proficiency? (if yes), are you familiar with what their check in experience is like at the VA?  unfortunately not, my experience with other veterans are going the other way. Multilingual with Italian, French. I don’t have contact with someone that is not proficient in English as far as veterans. 
Testing of Spanish content (20 minutes)
I want you to pretend that you have an upcoming appointment with your VA primary care provider via the phone and you receive the following text a few days beforehand. At this point, I’m going to share my screen. I will walk you through each screen and ask you a few questions as we go. Please remember, there are no right or wrong answers. I appreciate your honest feedback.
For each Spanish-translated screen for pre-check-in and check-in, ask:
Can you tell me what this page is asking you to do? 
First congratulations it is fairly clear, normally Spanish is mixed up so good job on this. It is the preregistration, last name and last 4 of the SSN. Then if you need assistance. Then I cant see anything further.  To be honest I am highly critical and good job to whoever did this. 
What, if anything, do you find confusing? Why or why not? not at all. 
 
Can you tell me what this page is asking you to do?
 You notice the third line is in English, is there a reason for that. IT was good until now but it should be easy to translate that. 
Second label, what is that: it’s the hour it is correct. 
Scrolled down: 
okay. Perfect, go ahead. It is talking about security and privacy and if you want to read more you can go to va.gov. basically it is personal infomraiton. 
What, if anything, do you find confusing? Why or why not? it says start here. It is perfect. 
 
Can you tell me what this page is asking you to do?
 Okay you can go down. Yeah the lower part is do you need help, contact. Yeah that’s good. It is giving your personal infomraiton which is the three numbers, and address than the bottom asks if you need any further assistance. 
What, if anything, do you find confusing? Why or why not? 
no issues. I don’t mean to flatter you but whoever did this did a great job. 
 
Can you tell me what this page is asking you to do? 
Everything is good this is the emergency contact. The latter part is if you need assistance. 
What, if anything, do you find confusing? Why or why not? Nope. 
 
Can you tell me what this page is asking you to do? 
The only minor item here and whoever translated it. In many Latin American cultures you would use (Spanish correction) meaning a family member. Like someone that is a parent or family member. There could be confusion there. This is a cultural difference you will run into. It is in the header and the next line as well.  Again if you need assistance and that’s standard. 
 
Can you tell me what this page is asking you to do?
 You have completed the registration previously to arrival. You can scroll down. Okay. you see the link with the i. You should include health or insurance because there may be a confusion form the veteran asking what kind of insurance papers. To be more precise you should include medical. Can you scroll down a bit. 
For insurance, is it reading just insurance but it would be better to include medical or health: yes. 
What is this asking you to do: 
You are asking if I need any help the information is up to date than it goes to say we can better prepare and contact you easily. 
Second prototype
 
Can you tell me what this page is asking you to do?
 Just a minor item in the second line you start saying it in present tense. (correcting it in Spanish) It implies that he hasn’t given the updated infomration whereas the previous infomraiton indicates that he has, you might want to change it. the point is, are you asking when we have your updated infomraiton we can give you a better follow up after the appointment. I think that’s what you are trying to say. So I would change it to present part. It’s a minor item. Okay so its one of those that you may find differences depending on where they are from. 
What, if anything, do you find confusing? Why or why not?
 that’s okay besides those comments. 
Past tense or present:
 it depends on what you want to say. Both indicate when we have your up to date infomration but have covers past, present and future. Here meaning when we have your infomraiton than we can give you a better follow up after the appointment. 
 
Can you tell me what this page is asking you to do?
 It is asking the emergency contact. 
 
Can you tell me what this page is asking you to do? 
Okay its standard. 
 
Can you tell me what this page is asking you to do? 
It is saying the appointment started more than 15 minutes ago and you cant do it online but to ask for assistance.  In previous items did you mention, you gave a phone number, email, or chat?.  So in the 227 you can register now but at 312 it tells you that you can’t register until 242
What, if anything, do you find confusing? Why or why not? clear yes of course. 
 
Can you tell me what this page is asking you to do? 
You are registered and they will come to the waiting room. Good. 
Links: it is saying in case you want to be reimbursed for travel you can read how to doit in English and the last one is to go to another appointment. 
What, if anything, do you find confusing? Why or why not? apart for the 312 no. 
 
 
Follow-up questions	
Overall, what information if anything, is missing for non-English speakers/LEP?
Overall, what, if anything, would you improve? Apart from my comments no. 
On a scale from 1 (very unclear) to 10 (very clear), how would you rate the clarity of the Spanish content? Apart for the comments I made a 9. I would give it a 10 but I never give anything a 10 so. 
On a scale from 1 to 10 (where 1 is very unsatisfied, and 10 is very satisfied), how would you rate the overall Spanish language experience of pre-check-in and check-in?  
I would say a 10 it was excellent. Fi there are complications it wont have to do with the forms it will be a matter of cultural ignorance. It is hard. To give an example my wife is the interrupter in the area and she translates for all of NC. As I said you have levels of literate abilities of those that came from villages to major cities. If theres something they don’t understand it wont be due to the forms. Its hard to understand how any veteran wouldn’t be able to go through those documents in English. I would need to scratch my head unless its changed since I went in the service. 

