Conversation guide for Spanish Check-in & Toggle Design
I have started recording. I'd like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record my screen and the audio as we talk today? Yes I am. 
PART 1: Spanish content
Warm-up questions (5 to 10 minutes)
I'd like to start now with learning a little more about your background.
Do you and [your family/the Veteran] primarily speak Spanish, English, or another language at home?  
Primarily English but I was married to a Mexican and I have Spanish grandchildren so that’s where my Spanish comes from. I also write claims for veterans in Spanish. I understand more than what I speak and I see the problems with veterans getting care in Spanish at the va. 
 
Can you tell me about your and [your family members'/the Veteran's] level of comfort with English vs. Spanish? 
English is what we speak in my household. I am moderate in Spanish; I understand more than I speak and I speak with my grandchildren in Mexico each week. I do practice Spanish here and my husband will say he took Spanish in High school but cannot speak Spanish. We went to FL and I was practicing Spanish in the car and he had no idea how to speak Spanish. 
Region: 
is tarted with high school than to college, then it has developed between Puerto Rico Spanish and Mexican Spanish, it gets tricky because words don’t translate to the other. So the dialects can be offensive if you are not careful. 
In general, when you each need information, do you prefer to read it in English or Spanish? English 
Are there specific kinds of information or topics that you specifically prefer in Spanish? 
If I am trying to practice my Spanish than I watch tv with the subtitles because you can read it and understand what they are saying so you get reading comprehension. I understand and read more Spanish than I read. 
Can you tell me about any VA benefits or services that you, or your family members, use or have used in the past?
Do you help your family manage any of their benefits or services or vice versa? 
Not exact family members I am with DAV and as a  volunteer I help write claims. We have a heavy Latina population but there aren’t many that do claims and write Spanish. So its piecing it together or calling someone to help them HIPPA makes it harder so because I can speak a little and if it is real detailed they can read it in Spanish. That’s why this study is really important to me. I understand when I go to Mexico it’s not in English for me. even though Spanish is a second language people don’t translate for them. So you are in the left field, can’t tell the doctor what’s going on, it is a huge barrier and before covid we saw a Spanish speaking nurse almost get fired for helping a veteran. 
Now, I’m going to ask you to think about the tasks you do prior to a VA medical appointment, such as checking in.
Do you recall which type of tasks you were asked to complete? 
You have to go to the kiosk to put in the card or enter the SSN. This has no Spanish option so if you don’t know how to do it or don’t read English a Spanish speaker needs help. So they don’t know what the prompts are so they cant check in. theres no one at the front to check them in either, so here you put in the card to check in but theres no Spanish option but all ATMs are and the va cant even do that. 
As a bilingual Veteran, were there any tasks you think was missing or could have been helpful for Spanish-speaking Veterans?
 I think every va, you have to look at demographics. If you look where we are and everything like that we need someone that speaks Spanish., yes there should have been some sort of English if you are a veteran but if you went home to speak Spanish for 50 years, can you really expect them to speak English if they have only been speaking English for years. Some people joined the military as a refugee, they didn’t always need to be speaking English so theres a barrier for those that are bilingual. 
Curious if you have interacted or know other Veterans or caregivers with low English proficiency? (if yes), are you familiar with what their check in experience is like at the VA?
 When I signed up for this it was the convention and I said I couldn’t do it over the phone and I have a Spanish speaker that was home so we were able to translate. I cant always get a translator so we have a creative ways to get translators. The same issues with va, to me that’s not providing the right service. If they say they only speak Spanish their care shouldn’t be delayed. Now their appointment is delayed and now you have to wait for the doctor. There is not a lot of thought process. 
Google translate is on my phone and browser so I have it if needed. 
Toggle for translated content: 
The way technology is. It should just be Spanish and it translates. I don’t know if its that easy. Tech is not my friend. 
Google and translate is easy to find.
I see is the elderly veteran and they won’t get a smartphone for translating so it is harder. 
Where would you try to find it:
 not for the va sites. Some general websites have it like our Puerto Rican festival has the translation so English and Spanish so everyone understands it. I don’t find that on many websites. 
Testing of Spanish content (20 minutes)
I want you to pretend that you have an upcoming appointment with your VA primary care provider via the phone and you receive the following text a few days beforehand. At this point, I’m going to share my screen. I will walk you through each screen and ask you a few questions as we go. Please remember, there are no right or wrong answers. I appreciate your honest feedback.
For each Spanish-translated screen for pre-check-in and check-in, ask:
PART 2: Language Toggle Design
Design 1
Can you tell me what this page is asking you to do? I saw the Spanish one, it was the login, last 4. 
Function: that it is even offered is good so now I will look when I go to va each time. If this is something I use all the time and never seen it. I saw it then almost missed it it would be like okay. 
Design 2
Can you tell me what this page is asking you to do? It was bigger and offered two languages but then again it just said available in Tagalog and Spanish. It was bigger so I catch it bigger
Design 3
Can you tell me what this page is asking you to do? Again it was the words written out in each language. I would almost like to see it where those three are translated in those languages as well. It isnt translating everything in the language they needed. The third was the best because the options were the biggest. 
Difference: id dint see the footer in each. I thought it was blank. Option 2 the one in the middle says which ones I can get all the time. The other are English or Spanish., the footer doesn’t say anything about translation and the middle one looks like it has it all the time. It seems easier but then on the footer it doesn’t have that you can switch it. I would like the header on option 3 and the footer on option 2. 
First design what will it should: that’s where it is a little smaller at the top you can see English or Spanish but theres nothing in the footer talking about the language difference only option 2 does. Option one doesn’t give the third option either. 
I would expect it in English because nothing is in Spanish yet. I don’t know if we clicked there. All three would be in English because I don’t know if we choose Spanish. Do we need to click Spanish or will it give me both as we click continue. Nothing tells me it will be in Spanish by clicking continue. 
Notification: the second tells me to look for the languages. Even to say switch languages it doesn’t tell me that someone that doesn’t know English to hit that but hopefully they would click Spanish and it translates.
Close notification: I would expect to see everything in Spanish if that’s my language choice. If my primary language is for reading, you can understand yes and last 4 but then need help with other things in English this isnt telling you it will be in Spanish. Need help, how do I know what that would need. That would eb leaving me out as a non-English reader. Maybe I don’t comprehend things written in English. 
Which is the most helpful: option two because it’s in the footer and header
Toggle on va website: If I am telling va I want them and I said switch language then I expect it all to be in the other language which makes me want to google va.gov and play on it like that. 
How to be notified: it has to be mail for that be3cuase again looking at the core of Spanish speakers it is the older veterans. Younger veterans are speaking more than one language because it is required in school. I am almost 50 and it wasn’t in school like it is now. I have nieces that had language since 5th graded and I didn’t get it until high school. If they are going to send infomraiton to veterans than there needs to be something that’s triggered so they send it to the Spanish speakers. They just sent it out to someone in healthcare line so there must be something within va that triggers the Spanish speakers. Theres a Healthline so if they speak Spanish it should be sent in Spanish or they cannot understand it. Is there an ox that is clicked, I would think it would be easy to know if the household speaks Spanish so their mail should go out in Spanish. Awareness is needed. 
Did the toggle word as expected: yes it was easy and it has the one for Spanish. 
What made the switch helpful: it was easy and automatically went into Spanish for that. Especially because it allowed them to see where they are asking questions. When it was is Spanish everything kept going in Spanish. 
What made it not helpful or what to change if anything: I would like it larger because it is so small. Answer precheck in question, some of the smallest text there is language. I have been checking in on va for years and maybe it’s because I don’t need it but I wasn’t paying attention. Some jumps out but others it don’t so it needs to be larger. The lighting isnt always good at the va. 
Word as expected: no because I didn’t think you needed to go to the b9ottom. That will annoy a veteran because you need to go to a different spot to choose. 
Helpful: it is helpful because it is bigger and a different color but now that you need to go to the bottom to switch isnt helpful
Change: switching the option to top and keep it at the bottom. It isnt even in Spanish for them so that’s a barrier, fi you don’t understand switch language it doesn’t help you know that it can be changed whereas the first one did. I like that this one has it on the bottom to but it needs to be on the top as well
Third option: the color is good; the wording needs to be bigger. If we move the header with three and the footer of two it would be good because it provides different option on how to get the language. 
Design 1: 2 
Design 2: 5
Design 3: we will go 7 because it has a little bit better things. 
Thank-You and Closing - 2 minutes
We really appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us today. Your feedback is so helpful to us as we continue to work on the site and make sure it serves the needs of all Veterans and their family members and caregivers. Thanks! If you know any other Veterans, caregivers, or service members who might be willing to participate in a future research session like this one, you can pass along the email blurb that you’ll receive from our team.

