Conversation guide for Spanish Check-in & Toggle Design
I have started recording. I'd like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record my screen and the audio as we talk today? Yes
PART 2: Language Toggle Design
Warm-up Questions - 10 minutes
I'd like to start now with learning a little more about your background.
Do you and [your family/the Veteran] primarily speak Spanish, English, or another language at home? Spanish, a little bit of English with the kids but basically only Spanish. 
Can you tell me about your and [your family members'/the Veteran's] level of comfort with English vs. Spanish? Pretty comfortable especially with Spanish. 
In general, when you each need information, do you prefer to read it in English or Spanish? Um I prefer it in English but there are words that need to be translated if I do not understand them. So I refer to Spanish. 
Are there specific kinds of information or topics that you specifically prefer in Spanish? Can you tell me more about this? More like military side, I read books in Spanish. 
Do you help your family manage any of their benefits or services or vice versa?  Yes I do help them with benefits
Now, I’m going to ask you to think about the tasks you do prior to a VA medical appointment, such as checking in.
Browser to Spanish: yes. I normally put it in Spanish but my wife isnt fluent in Spanish so communication can be harder. Most of our conversations are in Spanish. I use google translate. 
Where would the toggle be: I normally just go to google translate and you can put it in the URL and it will translate whatever page you want. 
Do you recall which type of tasks you were asked to complete? For the va, like making regular hospital calls. Each time you go they have you fill out paperwork, click yes or no or fill in how you are feeling. Theres a questionnaire each time. How long did you have the pain, basic infomraiton, DOB, last 4. When was your last vaccine. Fever, the list goes on and on. How can they serve you by knowing ahead of time. 
As a bilingual Veteran, were there any tasks you think was missing or could have been helpful for Spanish-speaking Veterans? When I go with my wife yes because I am translating back and forth. That’s it for the spouses I think it would be harder because I can speak English but with her I am translating for her because theres no one there to translate. Sometime is don’t know what they are saying soi have to sue translate as well. 
Curious if you have interacted or know other Veterans or caregivers with low English proficiency? (if yes), are you familiar with what their check in experience is like at the VA? I know a few friends; one is Carlos and they are in MD. He was telling me that he has a hard time understanding so he calls me and asks me. we communicate back and forth. 
Process or content: I would say it’s more about the content. The process is the same everywhere. Somethings are level 4-5 English so that could help us, not every veteran has a college degree. 
First Task: Toggle 5-second test (10 minutes)
Now I'm going to ask you to think about the last time you checked in for an in-person medical appointment. I’ll be showing you 3 designs in total. I’ll share each design briefly. I’ll then ask you some questions. I’m sharing the screen now. Note: the order of the designs shows will vary between all participants
[Show first toggle design for 5 seconds and show a blank slide]
Follow-up questions after showing each toggle design:
What grabbed your attention if anything? The color. It was blue and red and you had a few squares to fill in. 
What functions does it provide? Its about security, the way they identify who you are. 
What words or sentences can you recall if anything? I think it was saying something about how to identify you with the last name and last 4, there were two blocks in there. 
[Show the slide of the second toggle design for 5 seconds]
Follow-up questions after showing each toggle design: 
What grabbed your attention if anything? It has the name and ssn. Pretty much they want your infomraiton to identify you and at the top it was saying 
[Show the slide of the third toggle design for 5 seconds]
Follow-up questions after showing each toggle design: 
What grabbed your attention if anything? Here I see in the top you have English and Spanish and you can switch back and forth. 
What functions does it provide? It will translate automatically for you so you can go between them. 
[Show both designs]
I'd like to bring your attention to the header (the area at the top) and footer (the area at the bottom):
What do you notice about these two areas? I only noticed the header not the footers. 
Can you tell me more about how the header and footer impact your experience? So the third on would impact me better because I can understand it better. From there I can read it all but in the first one I can just go to Spanish and English. If I don’t understand the bottom why would I continue. I would go to the third and then pick the language and understand the rest of it. 
I’d like to talk about the language switch on the top section of the page.
What do you notice about the language switch? The first only has two, the other you can switch language, and the third on has the ones available. It takes less clicking on the third on. The first one only gives English and Spanish whereas the second you need to click twice to get what you need and the third you just click the one you want and go straight to the point. 
How do you expect it to work?
If you click on the continue button, do you think it will show an English page or a Spanish page? It will continue in English unless you pick another language. 
Notification: it is a lot available in another language. 
What if you close it: it will close it pout but you can see everything else on the page. You go to the bottom to switch languages.
Next page still see this: no. 
Which most helpful: 3, its quicker and less clicking. Straight to the point. You’re telling me more with less. 
Where to find it: on the top. 
On va website: on the top like this one, you know exactly where to go. If you are looking at this on a phone you will only see half of it. if its not at the top you wont know it offers the translate. Then when you scroll down you’re like oh its here. On the phone you wont see it all so by putting it on the top you are saving me time when I know they offer it from the beginning. 
Expect to be notified: text is the best way I think. Text or email but text is easier like sometimes you get a text form the va stating okay va has Spanish pages come check it out and then a link. 
Do you read all text or which do you pay more attention to: I read all of them, pretty much everyone does. Maybe not right away. 
Region of Spanish: I learned in Ecuador, south America. We speak a little different than other Spanish speakers. 
Second Task: Toggle usability testing (15 minutes)
Note: the order of the designs shows will vary between all participants
[Participants viewing the toggle design in pre-check-in flow] I want you to pretend that you have an upcoming appointment with your VA primary care provider via the phone and you receive the following text a few days beforehand. At this point, I would like you to share your screen, so we can see the text too. I've sent you a link in the chat to prototype. Please cut and paste this link into your browser. Thank you.
Please take a moment to interact with this prototype. Please talk-aloud as you complete the task. And there are no right or wrong answers, I appreciate your honest feedback.
[Participants viewing the toggle design in check-in flow] I want you to pretend that you have an upcoming appointment with your VA primary care provider via the phone. You see a poster at the clinic, text to the number on the poster and receive a link. At this point, I would like you to share your screen, so we can see the text too. I've sent you a link in the chat to prototype. Please cut and paste this link into your browser. Thank you.
[Link in the chat: link to a prototype combination, which includes Current toggle, Toggle Design #1, and Toggle Design #2]
 
Design 2:
Oh so it sends me to the bottom here. 
Toggle work as expected: yes. 
What is helpful: it is helpful, you click this and then you click the one you want and it stays with the language
Any changes: I wouldn’t change it, even if you don’t see everything if you click switch it takes you to where you can switch. 
 
Design 3: 
Work as expected: yes it is faster. Spanish then you are done
Helpful: everything is at the top I didn’t need to click switch the pick. You click then continue
Change if anything: nothing I think that’s good. Some websites they put the flag but I think that is over doing it. 
Design 1: 
Work expected: this is good to. It works the same as the other go straight to Spanish. The only thing is that it doesn’t have anything for our Filipino veterans. Being in the navy there were a lot of them
Change: no this is good but add Tagalog here. 
 
Post-Toggle Testing Questions
(Show the slide showing 3 designs: the current toggle, and the 2 toggle designs) On a scale from 1 to 10 (where 1 is very unsatisfied, and 10 is very satisfied), how would you rate your experience with these 3 designs? Which, if any, do you prefer? Please rank
First is a 9
Second is a 6-7	
Third: 10
Thank-You and Closing - 2 minutes
We really appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us today. Your feedback is so helpful to us as we continue to work on the site and make sure it serves the needs of all Veterans and their family members and caregivers. Thanks! If you know any other Veterans, caregivers, or service members who might be willing to participate in a future research session like this one, you can pass along the email blurb that you’ll receive from our team.

