Conversation guide for Spanish Check-
in &amp; Toggle Design
I have started recording. I&#39;d like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record my screen
and the audio as we talk today?
PART 2: Language Toggle Design
Warm-up Questions - 10 minutes
I&#39;d like to start now with learning a little more about your background.
 Do you and [your family/the Veteran] primarily speak Spanish, English, or
another language at home? English.
 Do you help your family manage any of their benefits or services or vice versa? I
don’t understand the question. My wife helps me.
Now, I’m going to ask you to think about the tasks you do prior to a VA medical
appointment, such as checking in.
 Do you recall which type of tasks you were asked to complete? I check in using
the kiosk.
 Asked anything: not really, theres someone there if you have a question but I
have been doing it for so long I don’t need assistance with it.
 Curious if you have interacted or know other Veterans or caregivers with low
English proficiency? (if yes), are you familiar with what their check in experience
is like at the VA? Yes. Not really most people are comfortable with how it works
since covid. During covid we couldn’t use the kiosk and had to see the clerks.
Recently they installed kiosks on the ground floor prior to going to the clinic, it
makes it easier.

First Task: Toggle 5-second test (10 minutes)
Now I&#39;m going to ask you to think about the last time you checked in for an in-person
medical appointment. I’ll be showing you 3 designs in total. I’ll share each design briefly.
I’ll then ask you some questions. I’m sharing the screen now. Note: the order of the
designs shows will vary between all participants
[Show first toggle design for 5 seconds and show a blank slide]

 Follow-up questions after showing each toggle design:
 What grabbed your attention if anything? The letters saying get started.
 What functions does it provide? I didn’t catch it quick enough.
 What words or sentences can you recall if anything? No
[Show the slide of the second toggle design for 5 seconds]
 Follow-up questions after showing each toggle design:
 What grabbed your attention if anything? Just the layout is clear and
understanding. easy to follow and understand.
 What functions does it provide? It lets you sign in with your last name and SS
and tells you who to contact if needing help.
[Show the slide of the third toggle design for 5 seconds]
 Follow-up questions after showing each toggle design:
 What grabbed your attention if anything? I noticed where it had the different
colored Spanish speaking and an area for Spanish. I guess some other language
access.
[Show both designs]
I&#39;d like to bring your attention to the header (the area at the top) and footer (the area at
the bottom):
 What do you notice about these two areas? I see the crisis line there at the top
and that’s really important.
 See sign in and menu: it is only on the second one but not on the first and third
one.
 Can you tell me more about how the header and footer impact your experience?
Well actually the top where it says sign in and menu could be confusing to those
that are just trying to sign into an appointment. Number 2 has more infomraiton
available for veteran access, simpler. That’s about it. The print is larger and
easier to read and makes it easier for the veteran to understand what is needed.
I’d like to talk about the language switch on the top section of the page.
 What do you notice about the language switch?
 How do you expect it to work?
 If you click on the continue button, do you think it will show an English page or a
Spanish page? If you click the language change it would change it but the first
one doesn’t really have that option from what I can see. yeah it has it up at the
top so that may be a bit better. If you just open it, it would be in English than you
would need to click Spanish at the top for it to go to Spanish. I think for the

foreign language speaking veterans, the third one is better because it is at the
top that says switch languages. Maybe that could be in larger test.
 Notification: if you speak Spanish you should just click switch and it would go to
Spanish or the one that you would want to speak. That alone would be better for
Spanish speaking veterans.
 Close the notification: take the x out so they don’t think clicking the x would
change it for them.
 Expect the notification or not to on the next page: no it should switch to Spanish
and they should understand what’s going on
[Follow-up questions]
 Which, if any, design do you prefer? I think number 3 is the most helpful. At the
top it says if you have a language issues click at the top, you don’t need to scroll
down to look for it. It is very effective.
 Where do you expect to find a toggle on VA website if translated content is
provided? I think it should be an automatic switch, there should be no delay.
Second Task: Toggle usability testing (15 minutes)
Note: the order of the designs shows will vary between all participants
[Participants viewing the toggle design in pre-check-in flow] I want you to pretend that
you have an upcoming appointment with your VA primary care provider via the phone
and you receive the following text a few days beforehand. At this point, I would like you
to share your screen, so we can see the text too. I&#39;ve sent you a link in the chat to
prototype. Please cut and paste this link into your browser. Thank you.
Please take a moment to interact with this prototype. Please talk-aloud as you complete
the task. And there are no right or wrong answers, I appreciate your honest feedback.
[Participants viewing the toggle design in check-in flow] I want you to pretend that you
have an upcoming appointment with your VA primary care provider via the phone. You
see a poster at the clinic, text to the number on the poster and receive a link. At this
point, I would like you to share your screen, so we can see the text too. I&#39;ve sent you a
link in the chat to prototype. Please cut and paste this link into your browser. Thank you.
[Link in the chat: link to a prototype combination, which includes Current toggle, Toggle
Design #1, and Toggle Design #2]
Design c:
 Does the language toggle switch work as you expected? Yes
 Helpful: it automatically switched there was no delay time.
 What, if anything, can be improved? I don’t see anything.

Design a:
 Does the language toggle switch work as you expected? Yes
 Helpful: it all looks helpful. It has everything there so that’s good.
 What, if anything, can be improved? If this will be on the kiosk, I think that could
be confusing but other than that it looks fine.

Design b:
 Does the language toggle switch work as you expected? We need to make it as
easy as possible.
 What do you like about the design? What do you dislike about the design?
 What, if anything, can be improved? The sign in at the top and where it says
switch languages. I thought it would be in an effective way but it just takes you to
the bottom. It may be confusing for them to need to click Spanish for it to switch
to Spanish.

Questions to ask after a participant try out each toggle design:
 Does the language toggle switch work as you expected? Why or why not?
 What do you like about the design? What do you dislike about the design?
 What, if anything, can be improved?
Post-Toggle Testing Questions
(Show the slide showing 3 designs: the current toggle, and the 2 toggle designs) On a
scale from 1 to 10 (where 1 is very unsatisfied, and 10 is very satisfied), how would you
rate your experience with these 3 designs? Which, if any, do you prefer? Please rank.
1: 9
2: 5
3: 9 as well because its easy to follow.
Thank-You and Closing - 2 minutes
We really appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us today. Your
feedback is so helpful to us as we continue to work on the site and make sure it serves

the needs of all Veterans and their family members and caregivers. Thanks! If you know
any other Veterans, caregivers, or service members who might be willing to participate
in a future research session like this one, you can pass along the email blurb that you’ll
receive from our team.
