Conversation guide for Spanish Check-in & Toggle Design
I have started recording. I'd like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record my screen and the audio as we talk today? Yes I am. 
PART 1: Spanish content
Warm-up questions (5 to 10 minutes)
I'd like to start now with learning a little more about your background.
Do you and [your family/the Veteran] primarily speak Spanish, English, or another language at home?  Spanish. 
Spanish region: South America, Ecuador 
Can you tell me about your and [your family members'/the Veteran's] level of comfort with English vs. Spanish?  Fluent in both. 
In general, when you each need information, do you prefer to read it in English or Spanish? No preference. 
Are there specific kinds of information or topics that you specifically prefer in Spanish? Uh I think I am used to reading English for most of the stuff so that’s fine. For me since I don’t look for the Spanish version of the content because I don’t find things in Spanish it is mostly in English. I wouldn’t mind reading it in Spanish. 
Type of infomration you prefer: yes medical infomration. Well usually medical information is harder to understand. They use bigger words and medical terminology. 
Do you help your family manage any of their benefits or services or vice versa? Yes I have 3 kids and I set up their health insurance. 
Now, I’m going to ask you to think about the tasks you do prior to a VA medical appointment, such as checking in.
Do you recall which type of tasks you were asked to complete? When you say task is it like reading. No usually I just login to the va page and look through the page and look to setup an appointment. 
Typically you schedule online: yes. 
Not asked to fill out anything prior: no. 
As a bilingual Veteran, were there any tasks you think was missing or could have been helpful for Spanish-speaking Veterans? Let me think. Uh. The page is very simple, maybe when you need to explain why you need an appointment. For me its not an issue because I can write it down but maybe for someone else. 
Curious if you have interacted or know other Veterans or caregivers with low English proficiency? (if yes), are you familiar with what their check in experience is like at the VA? I do not have any experience about that. 
Testing of Spanish content (20 minutes)
I want you to pretend that you have an upcoming appointment with your VA primary care provider via the phone and you receive the following text a few days beforehand. At this point, I’m going to share my screen. I will walk you through each screen and ask you a few questions as we go. Please remember, there are no right or wrong answers. I appreciate your honest feedback.
 
-I went to the va yesterday and saw that I can text the number so I don’t wait in line but there was no one there so I just talked to someone. 
For each Spanish-translated screen for pre-check-in and check-in, ask:
Can you tell me what this page is asking you to do? It tells you to type your last name and the last 4 of my SS. If I need assistance I can scroll down or ask someone. It is saying register in va but not why it says register in va. it is straight to the point they need the infomraiton to finish the registration. 
What, if anything, do you find confusing? No. Only the part I just told you. 
 
Can you tell me what this page is asking you to do?  Okay so it is asking me to schedule my contact infomration. The address and numbers. 
What, if anything, do you find confusing? I would say the only confusing part is that it says my postal address and my residential address. I know the difference because some people have different addresses for mail which would be the postal address. 
Questions around both addresses: yes. They should have my personal address until I use a postal address. 
Up here clear: everything is clear
What does it say: once you have my infomraiton they will proceed to setup my appointment. 
 
Can you tell me what this page is asking you to do? This is for my emergency contact.  All I have to do is make sure it is correct. 
What, if anything, do you find confusing?  No everything is clear. 
 
Can you tell me what this page is asking you to do? It is asking me for my closest relative thing, all this just to make an appointment. I have a big family so by the time I’m done with this. They want my brothers contact information. Not my kids, wife but my brother or sister. This is asking for the closest relative not family member
What, if anything, do you find confusing? No
 
Can you tell me what this page is asking you to do? This is the appointment I have mental health with the provider. The installation, clinic, and location of the appointment on the second floor. It also says that my appointments tarted 15 minutes ago. They can register so if I am late I cant use this and I have to talk to someone. This says my appointments. 
What, if anything, do you find confusing? That’s my second appointment that I can register for. I can click on it. it tells me the type of care, provider. Its mixed up. I thought it was in my head. It’s in both English and Spanish. 
You click to register: yes. It says register instead of check in. Register now. I mean this is my second appointment. my first appointment is at 112 so if I need to check in for 227, so they would call me for my second appointment. 
What about down here: it is asking if the information is updated at that time 1412. They are using military hours down here than civilian time up there. 
Anything unclear: it says updated right here. What am I updating. 
This to you says update: updating. 
 
Can you tell me what this page is asking you to do? It is telling me I am registered in the bold words at the top. It tells me the appointment time, type of care, provider, clinic, and location. Down below the blue box tells me that they will come look for me for my appointment. 
Links: to get reimbursed for travel and if I want to go to another appointment. 
What, if anything, do you find confusing? No 
Top grey box: it says contact us. 
 
Second prototype
Can you tell me what this page is asking you to do? You can start the registration prior to your arrival 
What, if anything, do you find confusing? No nothing confusing. 
 
Can you tell me what this page is asking you to do? It says to answer the registration questions prior to arrival. 
What, if anything, do you find confusing? I was just double checking. Nothing confusing or unclear. 
What is this: your answers will help us prepare for your arrival. 
What does the bottom part say: VA will take my health infomration and personal infomraiton. 
Confusing/unclear: no. 
What would you do on this page: What is in person, oh that means its not video. My type of appointment is in person. On that part I would add type of appointment, then in person. 
In person says it’s the type of appointment: yes.
Anything you’d click on: no
 
Can you tell me what this page is asking you to do? It says that I have completed the registration prior to arrival. There should be a better would for register. I know register in English but registro is like filling out something to apply for something. Its not checking in, I am registering for something. 
Blue box clear: it says bring the insurance card. 
What, if anything, do you find confusing? You could add health insurance. It just says insurance card. I know its supposed to be health insurance but it just says insurance card. 
 
Follow-up questions
Overall, what information if anything, is missing for non-English speakers/LEP?
Overall, what, if anything, would you improve?
On a scale from 1 (very unclear) to 10 (very clear), how would you rate the clarity of the Spanish content? I would say a 6. It takes forever to fill out the forms so I have to read it a few times to understand what they are asking for. 
Feel like it takes to long to fill it and having to read it more than once to understand: yes
What about the clarity of Spanish: it was clear, only a few words I guess. 
Included in rating you provided: eyes. 
On a scale from 1 to 10 (where 1 is very unsatisfied, and 10 is very satisfied), how would you rate the overall Spanish language experience of pre-check-in and check-in? again a 6. Why do I need to pre-check in. like yesterday I had an appointment and it was Tuesday. Monday a nurse called me but the questions were covid related. This one I don’t know why because they have all of my infomraiton and if I have an appointment  I have t go through all of that as well. 
Thank-You and Closing - 2 minutes
We really appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us today. Your feedback is so helpful to us as we continue to work on the site and make sure it serves the needs of all Veterans and their family members and caregivers. Thanks! If you know any other Veterans, caregivers, or service members who might be willing to participate in a future research session like this one, you can pass along the email blurb that you’ll receive from our team.

