# Medical copay usability: P2

July 1, 2021 | 11:00 AM EST  | Participant is using an iPhone  

## Top takeaways 
- Received copay bills for prescriptions prior to COVID 
   - Received bills in the mail every 1-2 months
   - Made payments online 
   - Prefers receiving mail communication
- Would use the online tool to see their bill's running balance 
- Expected to navigate to the tool from My HealtheVet
- Thought the charges being separated by facility was a good idea because she's had charges from multiple facilities 
- Was unsure if the referral charge was clickable or not 
- Easily navigated to the wizard when asked what she would do to resolve her copay bill
- Struggled to find when the bill was meant to be paid, eventually found it at the top of the bill details page 
- Expects to see 6-7 charges on one statement
- Felt confident that she could pay her copay bills using the tool

----

## Notes

* I have started recording. I'd like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record my screen and the audio as we talk today?

Yes

## Warm-up Questions - 5 minutes

* Tell me a little bit about how you currently use VA health care.

I use it quite a bit to be honest. I have a primary care physician, a therapist, and nurse practitioner I work with weekly

M: All at same facility?

Yes

* Tell me about your past experiences with VA health care copayments.

Uhm, yes. I have. In the past. 

M: tell me more

So, before COVID I had prescription meds and doctor visits that required a [Scrubbed] copay for the meds. Typically they would bill me maybe once a month or every couple of months. It wasn't very often. And then I made my payment online.

* Do you get statements for VA Health Care?  

* How do you receive them?

I received them in the mail. 

* Have you ever received any other notice about owing money to the VA?

Yes. I was hospitalized at one point and it was an emergency room visit and there was a pretty large bill. It took a lot of phone calls and conversations to get it resolved. It was finally resolved, but it took a while.

M: VA covered the charges?

Yes

* \[If yes\] What was it for? How did you deal with it?  

* What sort of communications do you receive from the VA?

Via telephone for appointments, anything requiring a payment is through the mail. 

* What would you change about how the VA contacts you?

It works for me. It's fine. I actually, honestly at my age I prefer to get something in the mail as opposed to online because if I have a piece of paper in front of me.... I don't forget. I get so many emails it's really hard to make sure I haven't missed anything. For me, getting a paper bill in the mail works. 

## Usability

* I'm going to send you a link in Zoom's chat feature. Go ahead and click that link when you're ready.

Send link in chat: [https://preview.uxpin.com/361636c369f65453b4880d1445911c4d9b869349\#/pages/140027243/simulate/no-panels?mode=i](https://preview.uxpin.com/361636c369f65453b4880d1445911c4d9b869349#/pages/140027243/simulate/no-panels?mode=i)

Now please navigate back to Zoom and share your screen so I can follow along with you \[Direct them to the 'Share content' button and 'Share screen' as needed\].

What we're looking at now is a potential tool on VA.gov. Since it's a prototype, it may not always work like the real VA.gov does, so if there's anything you want to know more about or unsure about, let me know. If something doesn't work the way you expect, let me know what you expected it to do.

### Landing page

* Talk to me about what we're looking at here

The VA home screen I guess is what you would call it. Managing your VA copay bills. (scrolling down) See, I've never done this before. I've always relied on the paper bill. I didn't realize that was available. 

M: It's currently not. We're seeing if the designs are working

* What could you use this tool for?

Uhm, well definitely checking in to see what my balance is, or running total is. And pay my bill. I could do it that way if I were not getting a bill by mail. Most all of my bills are online bill pay so. And that's honestly how I pay my VA pay. Online bill pay from my bank. For this purpose I could use it to see what my running balance is. 

* What's an example of when you might use this tool?

* Let's say you recently had a few appointments and refilled your medication, and now you want to check if you owe anything. What would be your next step from here?

Uhm, well first of all I already have an account for My HealtheVet so I'm not sure if I could get to this from there. I'm assuming I could once it's live. So I wouldn't have to sign in or create an account. It just answers all the questions I have. I would use it as a tool to find out what my balance is

M: You said you have an account on My HealtheVet. Can you tell me how you'd expect My HealtheVet to take you here?

I would think on the homepage it would give me a button to go online to manage my copay bills. It seems like it would be fairly simple from that point. I was just on My HealtheVet this morning. I can order prescriptions, schedule appointments, talk to nurses, so. I would think this would be another button on the main page I could use. 

M: What would you expect to see what you arrive on that tool?

Uhm, well since I'm already in My HealtheVet I wouldn't have to log in again so I could pull up my account and see a running tally of my current copays. 

* What would you expect to see once you sign in?  

* Go ahead and click sign in. You won't need to use your real account to sign in.

For me, I sign in with ID.me. 

M: What just happened?

It brought me back to 'Manage my VA copay bills'. It gives me an option to look at my balances, pay it, different options. I'm not sure what else you're looking for. 

M: If you wanted to see your running tally, what would be your next step?

To 'View your current copay balances' green button

M: What would you expect to see?

Prescriptions, balances, (missed this)

### Bill overview

* What are we looking at here?

It's showing right below current copay a total for the current balance (Referencing the yellow alert). View balance details, options to resolve the copay bills, questions answered. I feel like I could do just about anything from here. If there was a problem there's enough buttons on here to resolve anything or ask questions, phone numbers to call. I can't think of anything else I'd need to pay or question a bill. 

* What stands out to you about this page?

Uhm, the balance first of all. An option to see balance details. That's important. Different facilities. 

M: What do you think about those facilities being separate?

I think that's a really good idea because in my own case I used a VA in [Scrubbed] and I've used the [Scrubbed] VA and at one point I had copays from both facilities. To be able to see all of those on one page would be really helpful. 

M: Where do you think those numbers came from? 

They're hypothetical first of all. They don't relate to me at all. If they did and I saw that and I didn't agree with it, I would look into it. 

* What are your thoughts?  

* What is missing?  

* \[If they describe the alert\]

M: What do you think that is?

It's an alert that the amount has been sent for collection. It's got a yield sign so it's meant to be read. 

* What would you do next if you saw this notice?

I would definitely click on that. If it's a clickable thing. I would want to know what and where that $130 is supposed to be going and for what. Is it clickable? Yes. It is a clickable button. I would call that number to find out what was going on with that and why it was that amount if I owed $300 to one and $230 to another. Obviously they're on a timeline when the services were rendered. I would call the number.

* What other information would you be looking for in this alert, if anything?

Uh, well, I mean if it's possible I would really on that alert would want it to be a little more specific. Let's see, I guess, I mean, it's giving you the option to call but if you could see a breakdown of what it actually is that's owed and to where that would be helpful in that alert. Assuming someone didn't get mail that was addressing this. Uhm, yeah that would probably be helpful. Some people just don't want to make phone calls and don't like to talk on the phone anymore. If a breakdown and location, that would be helpful. 

* What do you think will happen if you don't do anything about this notice?

It would be sent in for collection until I took care of it. I don't usually play with fire like that though. 

* \[If they describe the grey cards\]
  * Where do you think that number comes from?  

* What do you think would happen if you pay that $300 charge?

I'm not sure, but there is a button for me to, I think there was a button on here that says "What if I don't pay?" I thought I saw that earlier. Maybe a help button. In this case it gives an option, well questions about options for repayment. 

* If you were looking to take care of an outstanding bill from James A. Haley Veterans' Hospital, what would your next step be?

Uh, pay the full balance or request financial help - either or. Or I would have the option to set up a payment plan by clicking the blue button to resolve your copay bills. 

M: Tell me more about that, option to set up a payment plan

(Clicks on the button)

I would go through that process and see where that took me. It looks like there's a form that needs to be filled out about requesting help or a payment plan. So I would click on that. 

M: You can select that second question 

(There's a bug with the prototype) 

The need help? Wait. I'm trying to 

M: Says 'What do you want to do for this bill?" 

Okay, alright. Lets see. Online. And then it gives me the option to pay direction from my bank account at Pay.gov.website. 

M: What if you wanted to make smaller payments?

If that wasn't an option on the website, I would call the number. 

M: (Moderator navigating them back to 'What do you want to do about this debt') Say you wanted to go on a monthly payment plan

Oh, there's request an extended monthly payment plan. 

* \[If 'view bill details'\]
  * What do you expect to see there?  

* What do you want to do once you're there?  

* Go ahead and click that link.

* \[If 'resolution' button'\]
  * What do you expect to see once you click on that button?  

* What do you want to be able to do once you're there?  

* Go ahead and click that button.

### Bill Detail Page

M: What would you do to learn more about that balance?

I can't remember. Well, clicking on the alert (goes back to the overview page) I think looking at this, if I wanted to learn more about these specific $130 I would have to call the phone number. 

M: What about the $300 balance?

If I couldn't pay it, I have the option to resolve the copay bills. I'd click that button. 

M: If you weren't sure about the $300 balance was?

I'd click 'View my balance details'

M: You can do that

* How does this compare to what you were expecting?

* What are we looking at?

Looks like, (mumbles) I can't think of any other questions that would need to be answered. It looks like everything is there. Statements, I can't think of anything else I'd need to resolve that. 

* What do you owe, based on what you see on this page?

* When do you need to pay by?

(Scrolling through the 'Your charges and payments' table, scrolls down the page to 'Download statements') I guess I'd try to look at the June 13th statement. Let's see, online, phone, mail, in person. I'm trying to see a pay by date. I see a date of the statement, and the billing number, $50, and the statement date is June 3rd. And then it's showing me what the services were. I guess I would try to go to 'Next' and go all the way to the end of the statement to see if I have a pay by date. 

M: You think this table make up a single statement? 

Uhm, that's what it looks like to me. There's a page 2, page 3, and a next button. I would keep on going through until I got to the end and hopefully see a 'pay by date'. 

Oh! (Scrolls up) There is a pay by date. I went back to the top and there's a payment date of July 9th, 2021\. 

M: What are you thinking about?

It looks comprehensive if you ask me. I went back to the top and saw the payment due date. I see the statement and I'm able to look at it. I don't think I'd be lacking in any information to be able to take care of the bill. It looks like all the options are covered. You guys do a really good job, ya know. I've never really had trouble with the VA homepage or the applications on there. I use it very often, like several times a week, so I mean this looks good. 

* How much do you need to pay by that date?

* What do you think will happen if you don't pay by that date?

* Talk to me about the charges you see here

Okay, so looking at the individual charges?

M: Yeah

Let's see, inpatient copay $50, late fee $2.50, prescription copay that's self explanatory, there's a payment for $150, inpatient copay $50, another $50\. I mean, it looks good to me. If I needed to see the whole thing in one fell swoop I'd click on the PDF and print it out. It's tell me what the fees are for. 

* What does this mean to you?  

* How would you normally interact with this information?

I mean, I would look at it and put it in my bill pay and pay it by the payment due date. 

* Think about a time when you were reviewing charges on a bill - what were you trying to accomplish?  

* How would you use this table to do that task?  

* If you were to make a rough guess, how many individual charges would you expect to see on a monthly statement?

For myself? Uhm, wow. Let's see, 1, 2, 4, probably maybe 6? 6 or 7?

* If you had questions about these charges, what would you do?

Uhm, I actually have somebody I really like at my VA. She is, I'm trying to remember the name, she's a patient advocate. I have gone to her in the past with questions and if I had to take it to the next level I would take it to her. That might be something to consider if this doesn't satisfy someone's needs and wants. Always there's a patient advocate on site at the VA. I've always found that helpful. 

* What do you think your options are to settle this debt?

Uh, I think the options are really good as long as you make the contact. Are you asking about the VA or my ability to take care of this through this page?

M: The second one

I'd be totally confident taking care of any bills on this page. I think all my questions would be answered and I think I'm pretty good at navigating webpages at my age. I do it a lot. I can't think of anything here that's missing or stands out or glares at me. Think y'all do a really good job! 

* Is there anything you're unsure about in regards to this balance?

* Now that you've seen your balance, what are your options for taking care of it?

* If you wanted to pay your balance, what would you do next?

I think there are (was on the blue box and scrolled down past it) I would go to the Pay.gov website (scrolled down to the payment information)

* What would you expect to happen when you click that link?  

* If you wanted to request smaller payments, what would you do next?

I would go back up to 'Request help for your copay bills' 

* What would you expect to see once you click that link?  

* Is there anything missing from this page that you would expect to see?

What would you do next if you weren't able to pay this bill?

### Wizard

* What are we looking at?

* How does this compare to your expectations?

* Let's say you want to request financial help for your balance at James A. Haley Veterans' Hospital.
  * What would you do next?  

#### FSR card

* Talk to me about the information you see here.

Request a compromise, waiver, it has me answer some questions. Veteran (selects Veteran). Once I clicked on Veteran it gives me the option to start my request now with the green button. Making it easy to request a monthly payment plan 

* What does this mean to you?  

* What would you do next?  

* What would you expect to see next?

I would expect to just fill out a form. It looks like VA Form 5655 is what I need to fill out. 

#### Online payment

* Let's say you want to make a payment for your balance instead.

* What would you do next?

* What would you expect to see next?  

* What are your thoughts about how you found this information?

* Do you have any questions about this information?  

## Post-Task Interview - 3 minutes

* Now that you've seen the whole copayment website, what are your impressions of the experience?

I think it's a great tool for checking my balances, paying my bill, it has all the boxes checked as far as getting information about my bill. I don't really think there's anything that's been left out. It looks like a great page. I can't imagine anything else. Unless I was actually having a bill that I needed to pay. It looks like everything's there to me. 

* Is there anything that you're unsure about?

No, I don't believe so. 

* Was there anything missing that you expected to see?

I'm just scrolling through it again and seeing if there's anything that pops up, I really don't see anything. It looks like it's all covered. It's hard to know what ya don't know! 

* How would you describe the web pages we looked at today, in a few words?

Well put together 

* Do you have any other thoughts on what we talked about today?

I do not!

* Any questions for me?

## Thank-You and Closing - 2 minutes

We really appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us today. Your feedback is so helpful to us as we continue to work on the site and make sure it really works for Veterans, so thank you for your time.

Lastly, do you know any other Veterans, caregivers, or service members who might be willing to participate in a future user research session? If Yes: Thank you! I'll have our team send you an email with a little blurb that you can pass along.

Great, well thank you so much again, and enjoy the rest of your day!
