# Medical copay usability: P4
  
07/02/2021 | 9:30 AM EST | Using Android  

## Top takeaways 
- Uses VA health care; receives copayments
   - Receives the statements through the mail
- Didn't realize they were receiving copayments and the debt amount was taken out of their tax return
- Prefers receiving email communication because they work from home and can't take phone calls during the day
- Mentioned using the medical copay tool to pay their copay online instead of via mail 
- Easily found the action link for 'View your current copay balances' 
- Understood the alert about $130 being sent for collection; understood the balances per facility
   - Wanted to know what the charges are that were sent to collection
- "I think this would be a lot better because this would give an idea of what you actually owe and request financial help."
- Expected the dates associated with charges on the 'balance details' to be the date they visited the doctor
- Understood the balance and due date; was unsure what the amount due was 
- Understood that if they wanted to request a waiver they could select 'How do I get financial helpf or my copays', 'Learn more about getting financial help' or 'Request help with your copay bills' 
   - Thought clicking the 'Request help with your copay bills' would show different options or resources
- Found the FSR via the wizard when prompted to request a waiver
- When asked what they would do to make a payment, they used the back button to go to the debt details page from the wizard page and selected 'Pay your copay bills' 
- Thought the tool would be very helpful when released; mentioned opting out of paper mail if there was an option to do so

## Warm-up Questions - 5 minutes

* Tell me a little bit about how you currently use VA health care.

I mainly go on there to order my prescriptions and then I do where I schedule my appointments and file a claim. I'll check those and if I have new conditions I'll file a claim on there. 

* Tell me about your past experiences with VA health care copayments.

Uh, at one time I didn't realize I was getting copayments. Maybe 3-4 years ago. Come tax time they ended up taking money out of my taxes due to not having paid the copayment. Since then, that might have been a mail problem because I wasn't in a stable place so it may have been I wasn't getting my mail properly. Now I try to stay on it and not order extra prescriptions that would get me undue payments. Since then it's been fairly positive. 

M: You receive them now?

Yes

M: Prescriptions and visits?

Since COVID they put a stop on it if I'm not mistaken. They reimbursed us, I think I got a letter saying they'd reimburse us for the copayments made during that time

M: Were you making copayment payments during that time?

Yes, I didn't want to incur the same problem again of getting it taken out of my taxes. A lot of times if you go to, that's why I like to order my own. If you wait and order through the doctor some of the stuff you really don't need so you gotta stay up on it and only order what you really need. 

M: Some of the VA doctors order things you feel you don't need?

Yeah sometimes they'll go through your list and order all you're prescribed. So if you have diabetes and you don't really need metformin anymore they may go through the list and order it anyway. 

* Do you get statements for VA Health Care?

Yeah, they send statements. 

* How do you receive them?

Through the mail. 

M: What do  you think about that?

I think it's a good thing. It's like through them and through other insurances it explains what all you've been charged and date paid and if you have responsibilities to meet your end of it. 

* Have you ever received any other notice about owing money to the VA?

Nah, nothing other than the copayments. No. 

* \[If yes\] What was it for? How did you deal with it?  

* What sort of communications do you receive from the VA?

Uh, well a lot of times I use the transportation so they'll contact me or I'll contact them if I have an appointment to pick me up to make sure I can make it to my appointments. That's very helpful. Sometimes I have to go to the main VA in (scrubbed) which is about 50 miles or so away so it's helpful that they come pick me up and take me to my appointments. 

M: How do they communicate with you about the appointments?

Either I call or I'll go to VA.gov or send a message to my provider, my main nurse, and they'll correspond with them and then they'll call me. 

* What would you change about how the VA contacts you?

No, they've been pretty upfront. It's not VA but I also have a mobility scooter that I use to get around. Recently one of the parts broke and I've been having trouble getting it fix. It's not a VA problem but whoever they use, I think they might be shorthanded right now. It's causing me a little bit of problems because I use it to get to the store and whatnot. I've been in contact with them every day. 

M: You mention you like the mail, what do you think about email or text communications?

I get emails and stuff. I prefer electronic stuff too because I work from home and I'm on a computer all day other than the phone calls. I'm on the phone all day and I'm not available to take calls all day while I'm working. Emails come in handy. 

## Usability

* I'm going to send you a link in Zoom's chat feature. Go ahead and click that link when you're ready.

Send link in chat: [https://preview.uxpin.com/361636c369f65453b4880d1445911c4d9b869349\#/pages/140027243/simulate/no-panels?mode=i](https://preview.uxpin.com/361636c369f65453b4880d1445911c4d9b869349#/pages/140027243/simulate/no-panels?mode=i)

Now please navigate back to Zoom and share your screen so I can follow along with you \[Direct them to the 'Share content' button and 'Share screen' as needed\].

What we're looking at now is a potential tool on VA.gov. Since it's a prototype, it may not always work like the real VA.gov does, so if there's anything you want to know more about or unsure about, let me know. If something doesn't work the way you expect, let me know what you expected it to do.

### Landing page

* Talk to me about what we're looking at here

This is something you can view on VA.gov that will give you access to view your medical copay bills, make payments, or check your balance. I've never seen that before. 

M: It doesn't exist quite yet. That's what we're looking at here. 

* What could you use this tool for?

* What's an example of when you might use this tool?

Like, any time I request prescriptions whenever I get a prescription and I have a copay I can use this tool to go in there to pay my copay instead of having to send it in the mail which would be handy. 

* Let's say you recently had a few appointments and refilled your medication, and now you want to check if you owe anything. What would be your next step from here?

First you gotta sign in. You want me to sign in?

M: You won't have to sign in. Just show me how. 

(Scrolls down) 

Once you sign in it would come up showing what your charges are. You can sign in at the bottom where it says "Sign in or create an account"

* What would you expect to see once you sign in?  

* Go ahead and click sign in. You won't need to use your real account to sign in.

Guess I'm called Hector! Like you said, it's a prototype. 

M: What would your next step be?

I would hit that green arrow that says 'View your current copay balances'

### Bill overview

* What are we looking at here?

It shows a balance of $130 has been sent for collection and then $300 for James A. Haley Veterans' Hospital and $230 for San Diego VA Medical Center and $0 to Philadelphia. It's real nice.

M: What's nice?

It'll give you a current actual up to date information as to who you actually owe and when it's due and how you can go about paying it. 

M: How does that compare to how you deal with those things now?

I think this would be a lot better because this would give an idea of what you actually owe and request financial help. Maybe they can set you up on a payment plan or something of that nature because that may cut out some of the questions you might have. 

* What stands out to you about this page?

Let's see here... (Scrolling up and down the page) I like the fact that they give the contact information for each individual facility in case you do have some questions

M: When could you see yourself calling those numbers?

Maybe if you had a question about one of the charges. Maybe they double ordered one of the prescriptions and you want to dispute it. Then maybe you want to contact someone and they can correct that. 

* What are your thoughts?  

* What is missing?

As far as I can see, I mean (screen stopped sharing so thought was cut off) 

Well you can always go to the other page and see what all your different prescriptions you have and see what they're charging you

M: Is that something you'd do?

Yeah, I think it's like $4 or $8 or something like that but you gotta look at each one to make sure you're not overpaying 

* \[If they describe the alert\]
  * What would you do next if you saw this notice?

I would click on that and see why (Clicks). Yeah, I'd probably have to call that number 800-304-3107 to see what I can do to resolve that issue. 

* What other information would you be looking for in this alert, if anything?

I would really try to find out which charges it was that's causing me to go into collections. 

* What do you think will happen if you don't do anything about this notice?

Again, they can garnish your wages or take it out your taxes. That could affect your credit. Or they could stop you from receiving VA benefits if it became too much

M: What do you think?

I mean, it's a business, so. It's helpful that you can get that help but you gotta abide by the rules also. 

* \[If they describe the grey cards\]
  * Where do you think that number comes from?  

* What do you think would happen if you pay that $300 charge?

Should update next time you log back in. It should update showing that it's a 0\. 

* If you were looking to take care of an outstanding bill from James A. Haley Veterans' Hospital, what would your next step be?

M: Can you show me how you'd look at your charges?

I would click 'View your balance details' for the $300\. 

* \[If 'view bill details'\]
  * What do you expect to see there?  

* What do you want to do once you're there?  

* Go ahead and click that link.

* \[If 'resolution' button'\]
  * What do you expect to see once you click on that button?  

* What do you want to be able to do once you're there?  

* Go ahead and click that button.

### Bill Detail Page

* How does this compare to what you were expecting?

You can see what you've been charged for that $300\. (Scrolls down to your charges and payments) There you go. 

* What are we looking at?

This will let you know, you can see what you've actually been charged. Like I said, make sure you received that prescription and if you actually did meet those appointment dates and if so you wouldn't have any problems with those charges. If there's discrepancies you can raise questions

M: You'd expect the dates to be the date you went to the doctor?

Correct. 

* What do you owe, based on what you see on this page?

In total or just James A Haley?

M: Just this facility

$300 for the James Haley. 

* When do you need to pay by?

It's due July 9th 

* How much do you need to pay by that date?

Uh, let's see here. (Scrolls down, scrolls back up) I wouldn't think you'd have to pay all of it in full. Well, if you can't pay it in full then you'd probably have to call to see if you could make a payment plan. 

* What do you think will happen if you don't pay by that date?

* Talk to me about the charges you see here

* What does this mean to you?  

* How would you normally interact with this information?

Uhm, me personally I would just, if I felt that everything was correct I would just try to make the payments. If I didn't have the correct money at the time I would see what I could do to set up a plan or whatever to take care of it. 

* Think about a time when you were reviewing charges on a bill - what were you trying to accomplish?

Just trying to, ya know, keep my payments up to date and make sure all the charges are correct and I don't get behind. 

* How would you use this table to do that task?  

* If you were to make a rough guess, how many individual charges would you expect to see on a monthly statement?

Uh, I guess it depends on how many prescriptions. Could still be one charge and the prescriptions listed individually and the doctors visits. When they total it up on a bill it should be one charge. 

M: When you're looking at a statement the VA sent you, how many lines are in that table they send?

I don't have it handy. Think mine should be depending on prescriptions ordered for that month. 

* If you had questions about these charges, what would you do?

Go down to contact the VA Health Resources Center 866-400-1238\. That's more for the repayment. If you got questions for the charges then you'd contact the individual hospital or whatever. 

M: Does that make sense for you?

Yes ma'am. 

* What do you think your options are to settle this debt?

Could pay it in full, call the VA health resource center to see if they have any other options for repayment. 

* Is there anything you're unsure about in regards to this balance?

* Now that you've seen your balance, what are your options for taking care of it?

* If you wanted to pay your balance, what would you do next?

Would either pay it online from a bank account or debit or credit card, call, or send a payment stub with a check or money order. Or do it in person. 

M: What would your preference be?

I would rather pay it online. 

* What would you expect to happen when you click that link?  

* If you wanted to request a waiver, what would you do next?

Would come to the part that says 'How do I get financial help for my copays' and click 'Learn more about getting financial help' or 'Request help with your copay bills'

* What would you expect to see once you click that link?

Probably give a couple different options or resources. 

* Is there anything missing from this page that you would expect to see?

What would you do next if you weren't able to pay this bill?

### Wizard

* What are we looking at?

Again, this is information that you can request to see if they can help pay your bill.

* How does this compare to your expectations?

* Let's say you want to request financial help for your balance at James A. Haley Veterans' Hospital.
  * What would you do next?

Okay I would answer the questions such as I'm requesting help with copay bills, and with this one if I can ask for a waiver, disagreement, I can make that decision right here. 

M: Let's say you want to get a waiver

You can click on 'Request financial help (a waiver or compromise offer) and answer the question if it's you or a dependent or spouse. And then click 'Start the request now. 

#### FSR card

* Talk to me about the information you see here.

I think it's very helpful, straightforward, and beneficial to any members who have questions about paying their bill or need help paying it. 

* What does this mean to you?  

* What would you do next?

I would click on 'Start your request now'

* What would you expect to see next?

Maybe a confirmation number or something that they'll be in contact with you or however they go about trying to resolve it. 

#### Online payment

* Let's say you want to make a payment for your balance instead.

* What would you do next?

Go back (uses the back button to go to the debt details page) I would click on 'Pay your copay bills' and then like I said it gives you information on different ways you can pay. I prefer online so I'd click on that Pay.gov website. 

* What would you expect to see next?  

* What are your thoughts about how you found this information?

* Do you have any questions about this information?

No, I think this is pretty straightforward

## Post-Task Interview - 3 minutes

* Now that you've seen the whole copayment website, what are your impressions of the experience?

I think it's gonna be very helpful if they actually bring this out. It can cut the paper, you know cut a lot of trees and having to worry seeing about what you're receiving in the mail. Just do your own due diligence to check your payments. Same way you do for utility bills or anything else. 

M: Would you expect to not receive paper mail anymore?

If I had the option I would choose not to. 

* Is there anything that you're unsure about?

Nah, I mean I'm pretty tech savvy so it was straightforward. 

* Was there anything missing that you expected to see?

Nah, I was pretty impressed with it myself 

* How would you describe the web pages we looked at today, in a few words?

User friendly 

* Do you have any other thoughts on what we talked about today?

No ma'am it was good. 

* Any questions for me?

## Thank-You and Closing - 2 minutes

We really appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us today. Your feedback is so helpful to us as we continue to work on the site and make sure it really works for Veterans, so thank you for your time.

Lastly, do you know any other Veterans, caregivers, or service members who might be willing to participate in a future user research session? If Yes: Thank you! I'll have our team send you an email with a little blurb that you can pass along.

Great, well thank you so much again, and enjoy the rest of your day!
