# Medical copay usability: P5

07/02/2021 | 1:00 PM EST | Participant is using an Android device  

## Top takeaways

- Uses VA health care 
- Receives copay statements for prescriptions
   - Paid a bill during COVID and received a refund but didn't remember why they received the refund
- Would like to receive text message communication 
   - Mentioned that VA is very conscientious about reminding them about upcoming appointments
- Mentioned frustrations using the online travel reimbursement tool
   - Wouldn't pay online using pay.gov because of their frustrations using the online travel reimbursement tool
   - Would prefer getting a bill in the mail and sending payment in the mail 
- Mentioned they would call for help if they didn't receive their paper statement in the mail
- Understood the amount sent to collections and what was owed to James A Haley and by when 
- Mentioned having a My HealtheVet account that they don't use often 
- When asked how they would resolve the bill from James A. Haley, they selected ' Resolve your copay balance' action link
- Questioned what they were being charged for on the overview page, then stated all the information they want to know was on the bill details page
- Was unable to find information about paying their balance on the wizard page
- Was unable to find the radio button for requesting a waiver, but found the link to the form at the top of the page

## Warm-up Questions - 5 minutes

* Tell me a little bit about how you currently use VA health care.

Uhm, yeah. I, uhm, I'm currently rated 40% and I have been using the VA's clinic up in (don't know this facility). I go there once a year for physicals, I go up there to see a psychologist that's been working with me for a couple years - really a great guy. I came back from Vietnam in 1969 and took a cab from (scrubbed for PII) Army Terminal to (scrubbed for PII), stopped at a bar, and quit drinking 27 years later. If you had to ask one of my biggest mistakes in life it was when I was in (scrubbed for PII) and I got a purple heart. I drove over (to his parents' place) and the hallway was lined with guys and I said, "Adios" I just got out of the army, I'm not putting up with this crap again. I went to college on the GI Bill, got a career, and finally a good friend of mine bugged me to contact the VA for years. I think the first time I went to the VA was in 2013 or 14. I got out of the service in 69. So that period of time, whatever it is. The people were great and I can't tell ya how many thousands and thousands of dollars I spent I didn't have to because prescriptions are much more reasonable. The psychologist I work with, I've had the same dream for over 50 years for every damn morning, I have flashbacks every once in a while. They're kind of weird, I don't know about other people, but he's been just a tremendous help. First thing he said is, "they're not going away" and second thing was, "We're gonna learn how to live with this" and so I've been seeing him for years and I'm very very happy with the help. As far as medical goes, they've been great to me. Last December, no November, I was up there I think and I was getting a regular yearly physical and the last thing the nurse practitioner said jeez (removed name) your heart is all over the place. They put a heart monitor on me and I had to wear that for three days and go back and they got all the results and then he got ahold of me again and said they wanted me to get a cardiologist and gave me a whole bunch of tests and he said afterwards that this is a problem that I can't deal with. So basically what he meant was they have a specific surgeon here in town at the hospital and she does all the electrical work whether it's pace makers or whatever involving electricity. 

* Tell me about your past experiences with VA health care copayments.

I got a summary of a bill for over $100,000 and it said the Veteran's responsibility: 0 and I thought that's good. I had to go back a couple of times for check-ups. I have a medicare supplement I pay for every month. I don't expect the VA to pay for everything, so I keep this supplement in place to cover any deductibles or copays. She said, "Who do you want me to bill" and I said, "Why are you asking me that? You figure it out. I don't know who to bill." I have no clue who they billed or who paid for it. I know I didn't have to pay any copays. I don't know if the copay was paid by my supplement or I don't have a copayment with the VA. 

* Do you get statements for VA Health Care?

M: Who sent that? Hospital or VA?

I think it was the hospital. I might have a copy of it, I'm not positive. I can check real quick here. I got a VA file. (Looking through files) Lab work from the VA... department of Veteran's Affairs... these are all appointment things and lab test results. 

The only thing I get from the VA regularly is like every 3 months after I renew my prescriptions I get a bill and I pay it. 

* How do you receive them?

M: How do you pay them?

I write a check and send it to them. 

* Have you ever received any other notice about owing money to the VA?

Uhm, no. Actually, I love the way your system is working right now and the reason I say that is because I got a letter maybe 2 weeks ago and it said, no let me back up. I didn't get a bill for about a year. I kept renewing my prescriptions but I never got a bill. Finally I got a bill for (scrubbed). So I paid it and then last week, I got a notice from the VA saying that they were going to be refunding $x.xx and whatever it was and I don't remember the reason they gave me. But I didn't rethink anything of it. I happen to be in my bank account that day for a different reason and there's the money. They refunded the entire amount I paid them for prescriptions last year. That's the last contact I've had with the VA at all is them putting money in my bank account. 

* \[If yes\] What was it for? How did you deal with it?  

* What sort of communications do you receive from the VA?

Uhm, everything is done by letter. 

* What would you change about how the VA contacts you?

I wouldn't mind getting text messages. As long as I get it, it doesn't really matter to me. I don't mind if it's a phone call, text message, or letter. Email's fine. Let me back up just a second. When I have an appointment with VA, I get like two notices in the mail. I get an email reminding me. Maybe that's it, but they are very conscientious about reminding me at least three times that I have an appointment coming up. 

M: What do you think about that?

It's fine with me. I've got a calendar where I'm old fashioned and I write everything on the calendar. I do remember in the past I forgot one and I got one of those notices from the VA and I would have missed it but I didn't. 

## Usability

* I'm going to send you a link in Zoom's chat feature. Go ahead and click that link when you're ready.

Send link in chat: [https://preview.uxpin.com/361636c369f65453b4880d1445911c4d9b869349\#/pages/140027243/simulate/no-panels?mode=i](https://preview.uxpin.com/361636c369f65453b4880d1445911c4d9b869349#/pages/140027243/simulate/no-panels?mode=i)

Now please navigate back to Zoom and share your screen so I can follow along with you \[Direct them to the 'Share content' button and 'Share screen' as needed\].

What we're looking at now is a potential tool on VA.gov. Since it's a prototype, it may not always work like the real VA.gov does, so if there's anything you want to know more about or unsure about, let me know. If something doesn't work the way you expect, let me know what you expected it to do.

### Landing page

* Talk to me about what we're looking at here

The VA clinic I go to is 36 miles from here. Anyway, when I would check into an appointment for travel reimbursement everything worked perfect. I think maybe 4-5 or 6 months ago they said you can't do that anymore and you gotta get online. And that really sucks. It's just awful.

M: Asks question

Got the usual bar at the top. The first item is 'Manage your VA copay bills'. View your copay bills, goes down to view your copay balances, with this tool you can (reads off the grey card with the sign in button). (Scrolls down and reads the canceling and refunding payments) Want me to keep on reading?

* What could you use this tool for?

Uhm, let me ask you a question: Let's say, okay I can be totally wrong about this but I have, the only thing I have to pay for that I'm aware of are my prescriptions. Because I received a purple heart, I don't think I have copays or deductibles. At least I've never been billed for one. 

So, would you consider what I owe for prescriptions a VA copay?

M: Yes

Okay. I'm gonna be real honest. The first one is online. It says pay directly from bank account on secure pay.gov website. My experience with online travel reimbursement has been so lousy I don't trust your online stuff at all. That's not very fair to say because I've never been to Pay.gov, but that's my gut reaction okay. I personally, and just maybe because I'm old and that's what I like to do, I like to get the bill in my hand, I like to see what I'm paying for, rip out the bottom, and send you your money. 

M: tell me more about the tool? 

The reimbursement?

M: No, this page. You were reading about all the things you could go. 

They give four options: online, by phone, by mail, in person. The first one, online, it says pay directly from bank account or by debit or credit card on the secure Pay.gov website. As soon as it says gov website, no thanks. 

* What's an example of when you might use this tool?

* Let's say you recently had a few appointments and refilled your medication, and now you want to check if you owe anything. What would be your next step from here?

Uhm, (scrolls down) I. I'm making an assumption that if I owe you money you'll send a bill. If I don't get the bill will I get a late notice?

M: Yes

I'd just pay it. 

M: Sure, what if you weren't at your normal address and weren't receiving paper mail as usual and wanted to go on and check to see if you owed anything online here. What would you do?

I'd call. 888-827-4817\. I have all my receipts so I know what my account number is. 

(Moderator directs the Veteran into the tool) 

* What would you expect to see once you sign in?  

* Go ahead and click sign in. You won't need to use your real account to sign in.

### Bill overview

* What are we looking at here?

Says current copay balances. I owe a balance of $130 has been sent for collection?!

M: This is dummy data

Incidentally it's hard as hell to read. 

(Troubleshooting the browser)

Yeah, it says current copay balances: view your copay payments. A balance of $130 has been sent for collection. What you owe to each facility. $300 owed to James A Haley, view balance details, pay full balance or request help by July 9th to avoid interest and feed, resolve copay bills (reads the other cards - too quickly to type in real time) 

What if I have questions about my balance (reads all the content out). 

M: What are your impressions of this page?

Uhm, \*sighs\* see I can only speak for myself. I'm 73 years old, I'm pretty computer literate, I have 4 computers, ipads, 2 phones. Maybe it's my age, I like two things: I like paper in my hand or I like a number I can call if I don't understand something. That's all I want. Incidentally I'm signed up for My HealtheVet and all that stuff. I don't think I would use this. I don't mean to offend you. 

M: How do you use My HealtheVet?

I don't really use it a lot. Mostly I use it to make or change an appointment with either the doctor. 

If I was forced to, I would use it. I don't know. I think it's just the older you get the more routine driven you are. You're obviously a young lady. As you grow older you're gonna get into routines and you don't like changing those routines. That's where I'm at right now. I would be willing to bet you that all your Vietnam vets feel the same way. We're all in our 70s now. The newer guys, maybe Desert Storm, they may be feel completely different. Those guys were in a war and could pick up a phone and call home. That didn't exist in '69 and '68\. 

* What stands out to you about this page?  

* What are your thoughts?  

* What is missing?

I wanna know, if someone tells me I owe money, I wanna know what the hell for.

M: Is there any way you can view that information?

Oh hang on, it says view your balance details. 

* \[If they describe the alert\]
  * What would you do next if you saw this notice?  

* What other information would you be looking for in this alert, if anything?  

* What do you think will happen if you don't do anything about this notice?  

* \[If they describe the grey cards\]
  * Where do you think that number comes from?  

* What do you think would happen if you pay that $300 charge?  

* If you were looking to take care of an outstanding bill from James A. Haley Veterans' Hospital, what would your next step be?

Uhm, that's a good question. Hang on a second here. Let me hit resolve. 

* \[If 'view bill details'\]
  * What do you expect to see there?  

* What do you want to do once you're there?  

* Go ahead and click that link.

* \[If 'resolution' button'\]
  * What do you expect to see once you click on that button?  

* What do you want to be able to do once you're there?  

* Go ahead and click that button.

### Bill Detail Page

* How does this compare to what you were expecting?

* What are we looking at?

(Scrolling down the page) 

I apologize, it says on here inpatient care copay, prescription copay, late fee, payment, inpatient copay. I take that back, I'm sorry. It tells me everything that I wanna know. In other words, if you're gonna bill me for something I wanna know what it is, you do tell me, so I'm gonna pay it. Or you give me a number to call where I tell you I'm not gonna pay it. 

* What do you owe, based on what you see on this page?

* When do you need to pay by?

* How much do you need to pay by that date?

* What do you think will happen if you don't pay by that date?

* Talk to me about the charges you see here

* What does this mean to you?  

* How would you normally interact with this information?  

* Think about a time when you were reviewing charges on a bill - what were you trying to accomplish?  

* How would you use this table to do that task?  

* If you were to make a rough guess, how many individual charges would you expect to see on a monthly statement?  

* If you had questions about these charges, what would you do?  

* What do you think your options are to settle this debt?

* Is there anything you're unsure about in regards to this balance?

* Now that you've seen your balance, what are your options for taking care of it?

* If you wanted to pay your balance, what would you do next?

* What would you expect to happen when you click that link?  

* If you wanted to request smaller payments, what would you do next?

* What would you expect to see once you click that link?  

* Is there anything missing from this page that you would expect to see?

What would you do next if you weren't able to pay this bill?

### Wizard

* What are we looking at?

Now I don't want any help in paying it. I'm looking at the bottom of the page that says contact us. (Scrolls up) I'm looking for an address where I can, I'm looking for an address and number 1: who do I make the check out to, number 2: where do I send it. I'm not seeing that anywhere on here. It may be but I don't see it. 

* How does this compare to your expectations?

* Let's say you want to request financial help for your balance at James A. Haley Veterans' Hospital.
  * What would you do next?  

#### FSR card

* Talk to me about the information you see here.

* What does this mean to you?  

* What would you do next?  

* What would you expect to see next?  

#### Waiver

* Let's say you want to request a waiver for your balance instead.

Then I would go to this request help. Let me see if they give me that option. Make a payment, report an error, request an extended payment, request financial help ,ask va to reconsider the decision. That's interesting, the next to the last one says 'Ask VA to reconsider the decision on my waiver request' Uhm, but then when you go above it, I don't see where there's even a place I can ask for a waiver. Oh wait, if you already know you want to request a waiver, compromise offer, or payment plan, you can submit a request now. Request help with VA Form 5655\. Nothing happens. 

M: It wont work. Scroll down a little bit, the fourth option should say 'waiver'

I was wrong! 

M: You can select that

It's nothing I'd ever do, but I'm with ya. 

M: What happens when you click on it?

Let me see here. Okay it says which of these best describes the person who has this copay bill. Veteran automatically lit up (bug). You can use our online financial status report. Start your request now. (Reading the rest of the content) I'll admit, it's pretty thorough. If I had to use it, I'd use it. But if things stayed as they were except for that god darned travel reimbursement thing I'd say this is fine. 

* What would you do next?

* What would you expect to see next?  

* What are your thoughts about how you found this information?

* Do you have any questions about this information?  

## Post-Task Interview - 3 minutes

* Now that you've seen the whole copayment website, what are your impressions of the experience?

* Is there anything that you're unsure about?

No, not really. You were very thorough.

* Was there anything missing that you expected to see?

Yeah, but you straightened me out that it was there all along. 

* How would you describe the web pages we looked at today, in a few words?

Comprehensive

Thorough 

I have to admit, easy to use. 

* Do you have any other thoughts on what we talked about today?

Not really.

* Any questions for me?

## Thank-You and Closing - 2 minutes

We really appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us today. Your feedback is so helpful to us as we continue to work on the site and make sure it really works for Veterans, so thank you for your time.

Lastly, do you know any other Veterans, caregivers, or service members who might be willing to participate in a future user research session? If Yes: Thank you! I'll have our team send you an email with a little blurb that you can pass along.

Great, well thank you so much again, and enjoy the rest of your day!
