# Medical copay usability: P6

July 2, 2021 | 2:30 PM EST  | Participant is using an Android device 

## Key takeaways 
- The session ended early due to technical difficulties; the participant was unable to access the prototype
- They currently have balances that have been referred to collections
  - They keep calling VA to try to resolve it
- Currently receives letters, text messages, and emails from VA 
  - Likes how VA communicates with them
- Has experienced VA canceling medical appointments without notifying them; would prefer receiving a phone call 


## Notes

M: How do you use VA health care?

VA is my sole healthcare service. I go to the Temple VA. 

M: One facility for all your services?

They keep turning up on my credit report… I have one in collections right now. I’m fighting four more of them right now. 

M: What’s been your experience?

When I call I’m put on hold. I wait for hours. They tell me they’ll deal with it but don’t. 

M: How are you fighting for it?

I call them every day. I got one right now if I pay a (scrubbed) bill… I’ve been fighting it for four years. 

M: How do you pay on collection?

By check

M: Where do you send it?

Whatever billing company it is. 

M: Do you receive copay bills for prescriptions? 

No. 

M: Have you ever received notices for billing?

I used to. I have 100% disability. I fight it there. It takes a month or two to pay it. 

M: What format are those bills in?

A letter 

I get text messages and emails from VA. If I have a message on My HealtheVet, my prescriptions and appointments. 

I like the way I receive messages. It reminds me of when I have an appointment. They cancel and make appointments and don’t notify me. 

I shouldn’t have to find out on My HealtheVet that they canceled 

M: What would be best?

Phone call. They should let you know they’re not going to pay it before you go to the doctor, who also thinks they’re going to pay you. 

(Couldn’t continue the session due to technical difficulties) 
