# Medical copay usability: P8
  
July 6, 2021 | 1:00 PM EST | Participant is using an iPhone  

## Top takeaways

- Uses VA for all medical care needs
- Has used community care when their VA location doesn't offer certain services
- Receives a copay bill every month or two; is aware of the 30 day timeframe to pay 
- Has requested financial hardship assistance in the past 
- Has experienced charges being sent to collection; the amount was garnished from their income tax 
- Would prefer receiving text messages because they're always using their phone
- Understood that the tool allows them to look at their bill charges and resolve them 
- Liked that the charges were split by facility so they could see a breakdown 
- Didn't think the collection alert needed more information; they thought providing a number was good so they could quickly communicate with VA and resolve it
- Was able to find the 'Resolve your copay bills' link when asked what they would do to set up a payment plan 
   - Noticed the 'VA form 5655' link at the top of the wizard page, but didn't use the wizard to find the form 
- Understood what amount they owed to James A. Haley Veterans Hospital and when it was due
   - They thought owing the full $300 was a lot, but that it was a realistic amount to owe
- Understood the outlined charges
  - Would look at the dates on each charge to verify that they went to appointments or received that medication
- Would expect 2-3 charges on each statement
- Has been reimbursed before and stated they saw it on a billing statement
- Was comfortable filling forms out online
- Thought the experience was self-explanatory; was a little confused by the contact information

## Warm-up Questions - 5 minutes

* Tell me a little bit about how you currently use VA health care.

Uhm, yes I currently uhm make appointments with the VA. I have my primary care provider and I go for all my appointments, accessing lab work, pap smears when they're due, mammograms, I go for followups, any problems I have. I use the eyeglass clinic to get prescriptions for my eyeglasses. That's my primary care provider where I go for any concerns. My healthcare annuals, appointments I need.

M: Single facility?

Yes, I use a single facility. It's a VA clinic, actually. I went to a civilian hospital to get my mammogram because they don't do that in the particular clinic I go to. They'll reach out; I have used civilian hospitals to do that. Any testings they can't do. 

M: How does that work out with you as far as communication?

It works out fine. When I go for my appointment they'll say it's that time, mammogram is every 3 or 5 years, and they'll set me up with an appointment and say someone will contact you, which they do, they call me and ask what time is better morning or afternoon. Then we go from there what date. Then they'll send a followup letters. Actually, when I went to the civilian hospital they contacted me to to verify. They communicate very well, that I'm aware of my appointment, confirm it's from the VA. Then I go from there! Very convenient for communication, phone-wise and letter to let me know about my appointment. 

* Tell me about your past experiences with VA health care copayments.

Yes! I actually because I am employed and they when I go to my appointments they'll bill me quarterly. Actually, they'll send me a notice. Like every month or two month I'll get a bill for whatever my copay was for that particular visit. Then they'll give me a time within 30 days and if my insurance doesn't pick it up they'll let me make a billing arrangement. It's reasonable. They'll give me time to pay that if I'm having a hardship due to financial I can fill out a form.

M: Hardship?

I've used it before when I first got out. I was working, but I stopped working and they charged me a copay but I said currently I wasn't working at that time. So I filled out the information and they came back and contacted me and verified my last day of unemployment. They waived that copay for me because I wasn't employed at all. If they ask me if my hours cut or unemployed and how long, temporary, it was good communication. I told them I was unemployed so. They're flexible and work with you for that copayment. 

* Do you get statements for VA Health Care?  

* How do you receive them?  

* Have you ever received any other notice about owing money to the VA?

Uhm, actually as far as the copay a couple times I forgot to pay. I said, "oh yeah, that bill!" but when income tax comes they'll send a notice and ask if it's okay. And I say sure! They have taken it out of my income tax. I knew I had the balance. It's okay, that's fine ya know. Of course, not collection. But that's a way they can get that debt that's due. 

M: You missed a payment and then they started taking the money from somewhere else?

Yeah, it wasn't immediately. It had been a debt I probably forgot and didn't pay. They send me letters that this is what I owe, but around income tax they send ya know due to me not paying that debt this is the balance you owe and what is due and they took it out of my income tax and it was taken care of. 

* \[If yes\] What was it for? How did you deal with it?  

* What sort of communications do you receive from the VA?

Uhm, I receive like a notice that it's time for lab work or time to make an appointment with my primary care provider every 6 months or year. They'll give me a phone call to contact me to set up an appointment. The letter comes, and then the phone calls. If they don't get me via phone call they'll send a letter including the particular day they tried to call. They do communicate very well by letter and phone. 

* What would you change about how the VA contacts you?

Uhm, let me see. Actually, email. I said, "hm, do they do email?" It's fine. I do check my email more, but. It works because the letter is fine and the phone call. It's fine as a way of communication. I guess with technology I don't know if they could do email or a text. I don't know if they do that via text. Exactly, when I had the appointment for the mammogram at the civilian hospital a week or two they said hey your appointment is due at so and so date, confirm by saying yes or change via no. It's convenient with your fingertips! So I'd say text, maybe! That would work. 

M: Out of mail, phone, email, text, which do you prefer?

Uh, the text. I'm always with my phone honestly. Technology. I have my phone, it's at my fingertips. Boom, hit a button there it is. 

## Usability

* I'm going to send you a link in Zoom's chat feature. Go ahead and click that link when you're ready.

Send link in chat: [https://preview.uxpin.com/361636c369f65453b4880d1445911c4d9b869349\#/pages/140027243/simulate/no-panels?mode=i](https://preview.uxpin.com/361636c369f65453b4880d1445911c4d9b869349#/pages/140027243/simulate/no-panels?mode=i)

Now please navigate back to Zoom and share your screen so I can follow along with you \[Direct them to the 'Share content' button and 'Share screen' as needed\].

What we're looking at now is a potential tool on VA.gov. Since it's a prototype, it may not always work like the real VA.gov does, so if there's anything you want to know more about or unsure about, let me know. If something doesn't work the way you expect, let me know what you expected it to do.

### Landing page

* Talk to me about what we're looking at here

Uhm, yes. It's managing your VA copay bills like making payments or view your balances, what your copay charges is and things. If you have a bill, your charges and what you owe. 

And then it says how you pay your copay options online: by phone, by mail, in person. Then it tells you what if you don't pay the bill, how you can dispute, request financial hardship. Okay. And then what should I do, VA community provider, copay rates, VA health care and other insurance. Different options for VA copay billing and what your charges is. How to take care of, if you can't pay them. What happens if you can't pay them, the penalty, interest. Yeah. 

* What could you use this tool for?

Uhm, I could use it to take care of my bill. To know how they bill me per visit, what are my copays, what are they based off of. What I should be paying when I go for an appointment. I should know what my copays would be and how to take care of them. 

M: When you say what your copay should be, is that before going to the visit or after?

After I've come from the visit. 

* What's an example of when you might use this tool?

Uhm, it could be, uhm, actually with the, especially when I receive a bill from the approved, like the community provider, cuz I know they bill you when you go there. Actually, I question to myself it is a VA hospital in (scrubbed), but that's a little further. If I chose to go to do health care at the hospital instead of going to the non-VA community provider, will it be the same copay or a little more, you know what I'm saying. That would be a choice of contact that to see my rates for that to see if it's the same or would my copay be higher, the same, or lower. 

* Let's say you recently had a few appointments and refilled your medication, and now you want to check if you owe anything. What would be your next step from here?

So I would check uhmm (scrolling up) well if you make an account or sign into your account and see what my balance is. What do I owe - sign into the account. Do I have any outstanding things? What would be the amount that I owe? Yeah. 

* What would you expect to see once you sign in?  

* Go ahead and click sign in. You won't need to use your real account to sign in.

M: What's happened here?

It's showing you, 'view your current copay balances' (clicks) to see what you owe. 

### Bill overview

* What are we looking at here?

The current copay balances. Uhm, a balance sent to collection, what you owe to each facility. It tells what each facility's balance is. The different totals of what I owe. 

M: What do you think about them being separate like they are?

Uhm, honestly it's cool. You know where you went and what they charge. It's breaking it down. I like that. You're seeing what each facility, this is what I owe for going there. That's what this bill balance is for this particular place. Breaking it down shows that way you can verify that once you log in. Of course you're still receiving the bill in the mail. By logging in you could see it quicker. It breaks it down. To me that's cool. 

* What stands out to you about this page?

Oh yeah, the $130 has been sent for collection (laughs) I see that. Then it says what if I have questions about my balance. That collection and balance of $130 (clicks on the alert). Exactly. I'm familiar with that Department of Treasury. That happened to me where they took it out of my refund. View your balance details. (clicks on the link)

* What are your thoughts?  

* What is missing?  

* \[If they describe the alert\]
  * What would you do next if you saw this notice?  

* What other information would you be looking for in this alert, if anything?

M: What do you think about the information?

Uhm, I  mean I know the government (laugh) it says you can contact and resolve the debt to contact and communicate. After so long I know medical bills are the quickest ones to turnover. I know that from experience, seen it. Now I know when I get them I try to communicate real quick. After 30 days, those turn over real quick. There's a number to call, I'm guessing you can communicate to see if you can make a payment plan or see your options. Honestly I haven't receive that note and didn't call the number. I'd know if I was receiving a refund it would be taken care of. It does have a number if you let it get past those 120 days. 

M: Other information you'd be looking for?

No, I mean they got a number to call. It gives you a number, no I wouldn't. They tell you the balance, what to do, and give a number. Nothing else I can think of. 

* What do you think will happen if you don't do anything about this notice?  

* \[If they describe the grey cards\]
  * Where do you think that number comes from?  

* What do you think would happen if you pay that $300 charge?  

* If you were looking to take care of an outstanding bill from James A. Haley Veterans' Hospital, what would your next step be?

To take care of that balance?

M: Yeah

I would see what day it was due. And of course I couldn't pay it by that (July 9th). I would try to contact them to see my options of a payment plan breaking it down to see if I could work this out. Maybe break it down and communicate with them and see if I can do that. Usually if you communicate with people they'll say yay or nay. Usually the financial help if you got your hours cut and see your options for that. For financial help. Pay now or request financial help. If I don't meet those criteria then make a payment arrangement for this account before I get a penalty and the interest starts adding up. 

M: You would look into financial help with a payment plan, is there some way on this page you see that could help?

Request help for your copay bills. 

* \[If 'view bill details'\]
  * What do you expect to see there?  

* What do you want to do once you're there?  

* Go ahead and click that link.

* \[If 'resolution' button'\]
  * What do you expect to see once you click on that button?  

* What do you want to be able to do once you're there?  

* Go ahead and click that button.

### Bill Detail Page

* How does this compare to what you were expecting?

* What are we looking at?

I'm familiar with that. Uhm, (scrolling down through charges) yes. That's the only thing that stands out to me. 

* What do you owe, based on what you see on this page?

What I owe (scrolls down) (scrolls up) $300

* When do you need to pay by?

July 9th

* How much do you need to pay by that date?

The whole amount (laugh) the total amount is due!

M: What do you think?

That's a lot! Hey! Halfway off your mortgage. ¼ of your mortgage. That's a big balance. Medical one time. No, medical it is. I just had a (procedure) and I looked at everything they charged and so it's not surprising. This is being realistic. Things cost, ya know. So. I went and my insurance still covered a lot. My job insurance. They charge this, that, for this, ya know. It's separate. Bill come from this. I went to a civilian closer to me, the VA was booked up, but it was more thorough too. A whole subject of another study maybe. I received a bill from the lab so yeah this is realistic. 

* What do you think will happen if you don't pay by that date?

Uhm, they'll say this bill was due on July 9th please submit immediately (laughs) it was due. Then it says to avoid fees you must take action before July 9th. So, it's going to start collection action, late fees, by July 9th. It'll be a little extra than $300\. 

* Talk to me about the charges you see here

Okay, yes. (scrolls) Yes, I'm familiar. Late fee, getting the prescription, inpatient care, yeah. It's just breaking it down receiving medicine, late fee, $2.50 I'm very familiar with that, inpatient copay. Yeah. Breaking it down. Procedure, inpatient, late fee interest. Unpaid bill, late fee added to it for not paying by that date. Then it says a payment received, the amount is $150\. They received a payment of $150 on that bill. Then they have a copay for $50\. Right. Each time you go the copay is $50\. 

* What does this mean to you?  

* How would you normally interact with this information?

Uhm, the list of the billings, ya know. It shows what you pay on it, each time you went and had an appointment. Of course my prescriptions, breaking it down. The late fee, I'd be like ugh. That's another thing (laugh) can make a payment on it but they'll charge a late fee of course. Just breaking it down all the times I went. I'd make sure they'd charge me for the days I went of course. For all my medicine, yeah I'd just verify that to make sure they're charging me the right things. 

M: So you'd be looking at the dates on here?

Right 

M: And you'd expect them to be?

Of course, that's the day I had an appointment. What they're charging me for. The medicine if I got that. If they sent me my prescriptions. If I never received that. Verifying. 

M: Verifying?

Just like, for instance I'm gonna go with March 3 2021\. No that's a payment. Well, inpatient copay $50\. Let me make sure March 3rd, did I have an appointment on March 3rd? Did I go or did I cancel it. I'm just verifying to make sure I had an appointment that day. I could see the copay is $50 so yeah I went that day, June 3rd I went back. It's all just verifying. 

* Think about a time when you were reviewing charges on a bill - what were you trying to accomplish?  

* How would you use this table to do that task?  

* If you were to make a rough guess, how many individual charges would you expect to see on a monthly statement?

Uhm, once I get my statement each month? I'll say maybe 2 if that. 2 or 3\. Maybe I'll get my medicine and one for an appointment that month. 2-3\. 

* If you had questions about these charges, what would you do?

I would contact the number of any help you need, where is it. Right here it says question about my balance. VA health resource center, yeah. Or if there's an error. Say for instance doctor says she's not going to describe that medicine and I shouldn't receive that, and they send it anyway. I'm still getting charged for that particular medicine. They've also done where I've had enough medicine and they still send that. They still charge that. I would call them, ask them what I do for that. 

* What do you think your options are to settle this debt?

My options would be going to VA taking care of my appointments. When I've had questions you contact, fill out a form, whatever they need to verify. Proof of the procedures, verify provider, what was mailed out to you. Whatever they need to do to verify that. Then they'll say it's waived. They're good about following up. They'll get the information and go from there. Add a credit to your account, I've seen that too. They already billed you for that, reimbursed it. 

M: You've seen that on a statement?

Yup, we've credited your account and they'll take the balance down. That helps! Cool, they've reversed that. Next time I go and a copy will go towards that, there's a credit on my account. 

* Is there anything you're unsure about in regards to this balance?

Uhm, anything I'm unsure about? No, no. 

* Now that you've seen your balance, what are your options for taking care of it?

* If you wanted to pay your balance, what would you do next?

* What would you expect to happen when you click that link?  

* If you wanted to request smaller payments, what would you do next?

* What would you expect to see once you click that link?  

* Is there anything missing from this page that you would expect to see?

Let me see... (scrolls) Uhm, no. Everything is self explanatory. Breaking down charges, if you have questions, how to pay, no everything is there what I need to know. 

M: There's that table up there and there are also that statements. Would you see yourself interacting with those statements?

Yeah. Yes, I would go back and say, "Oh I have this bill". Yeah, I would. I'm trying to think if at the end of the year the VA, I don't know if they still do that, total amount of debts. I seriously forget. I would go back and say, "Oh I did have this!" I would. 

What would you do next if you weren't able to pay this bill?

### Wizard

* What are we looking at?

Gives the options what you want to do for this bill. Request a payment plan, financial help, waiver, compromise. If you need help call this number. If you need help with the form it'll help you too. That's pretty cool. Like I said, extended monthly payment plan or request financial help. First I would of course try the waiver. The status, you're single, being a disabled Veteran, service-connected injury, you know some Veterans are service connected with different injuries, do you never know. All that comes into play. Yeah. 

* How does this compare to your expectations?

* Let's say you want to request financial help for your balance at James A. Haley Veterans' Hospital.
  * What would you do next?

Okay, so next I would click this (scrolls) well, they say here (reads the top of the page) I would request help with the VA form. I would do that. I gotta get the form to do anything. So, I would fill out what is needed on the form. And then I guess with the form mail it in or bring it in, fax it in, or, with the form. Yeah. That'd be my next step and go from there. Cuz it says call. 

M: How do you think you access the form itself?

Request help, let's see. Click on the link here 'Request help'. There should be a link, print it out maybe. Go to nearest VA or have them mail one to you. 

M: What do you think about filling out those forms online?

Uhm, it would be okay. I've filled out forms online before. You know, on the website. That's fine. I've done forms online. That would be okay. If I could submit it, whichever way is quicker that's fine. 

Everything is self explanatory. Just read it, it says how to contact. It's there. Just hit the link, read, dial, or. Everything is self explanatory. Pay by this date, contact here. No questions. Everything is there. 

#### FSR card

* Talk to me about the information you see here.

* What does this mean to you?  

* What would you do next?  

* What would you expect to see next?  

#### Online payment

* Let's say you want to make a payment for your balance instead.

* What would you do next?

* What would you expect to see next?  

* What are your thoughts about how you found this information?

* Do you have any questions about this information?  

## Post-Task Interview - 3 minutes

* Now that you've seen the whole copayment website, what are your impressions of the experience?

It was good. Everything was self explanatory. Letting you know what you owe, what if you don't pay it. Everything is self explanatory what you billed, what you owe, and when you see this you will see oh I owe $300 and you should have gotten it in the mail. Also, sometimes the VA says you can appeal it. You know your standard copay, the descriptions. Sometimes it says you can appeal, the medical appeal. That's why I'd go to financial hardship to see. You know what you owe. Soon as you have that appointment, the bill's gonna come. 

* Is there anything that you're unsure about?

Uhm, yes. I wasn't sure about contacting. I wasn't sure, I'm thinking you can go to your local VA but I found out no there's a certain place. I think you gotta go to the nearest VA. No you gotta fill out a form and go to a certain person. If you were appealing your bill. Who to contact. 

* Was there anything missing that you expected to see?

No, everything's here. 

* How would you describe the web pages we looked at today, in a few words?

Excellent, outstanding, self explanatory, it's there, right to the point. Easy to access, scroll up and down, broken down. Very easy accessible. 

* Do you have any other thoughts on what we talked about today?

No, it's very helpful knowing it's at your fingertips. Log in, make a user ID password take a picture - boom - it's right here it's convenient. It's here. Right at your fingertips. Say if you don't want to mail it in, by phone, options of paying. Very convenient breaking it down. 

* Any questions for me?

## Thank-You and Closing - 2 minutes

We really appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us today. Your feedback is so helpful to us as we continue to work on the site and make sure it really works for Veterans, so thank you for your time.

Lastly, do you know any other Veterans, caregivers, or service members who might be willing to participate in a future user research session? If Yes: Thank you! I'll have our team send you an email with a little blurb that you can pass along.

Great, well thank you so much again, and enjoy the rest of your day!
