# Medical copay usability: P9
  
July 7, 2021 | 9:30 AM EST | Participant is using an iPhone 4s 

## Top takeaways 
- They don't pay for copays due to their disability rating
- They wouldn't use the online tool because of the website's complexity
   - They preferred calling someone on the phone
   - "Well, it just looks like it would add another layer of complexity of what I do ordinarily which would just be to pay the bill."
- Had received a notice about owing money to VA in the past but didn't remember what it was for
- When they saw the collection alert, they stated they want an idea of why they have the balance; ie what charges
   - Would call for that information
- They stated that having the charges split by facility didn't make sense; would want to see them in one location and pay one location
- By the time they looked at the 'balance details' page they said it's more complex than it needs to be due to having seen 3 pages; "I would rather see a one-liner that says, "you owe this amount of money for this service"
- Couldn't find the total amount owed on the 'balance details' page; calculated manually and thought they owed $360
- Thought their only option to resolve the balance was to pay
   - "I just feel like the government doesn't negotiate very much"
- Experienced difficulty clicking on links throughout the prototype; would hold finger down on screen rather than tapping

## Warm-up Questions - 5 minutes

* Tell me a little bit about how you currently use VA health care.

Well, I go over to the VA hospital in (scrubbed) when I have a scheduled appointment. I see the doctor and they triage my issue, whatever it is, and send me to a specialist. 

M: More than one facility?

Yes.

* Tell me about your past experiences with VA health care copayments.

My experiences? They've been wonderful. I never have any issue with the VA at all. 

* Do you get statements for VA Health Care?

I don't know what that is. 

M: Do you pay for the services?

No, no I don't. 

* How do you receive them?  

* Have you ever received any other notice about owing money to the VA?

Oh, years ago! Not recently.

* \[If yes\] What was it for? How did you deal with it?

No, I really don't. 

* What sort of communications do you receive from the VA?

Well, I get emails and texts. Periodically the physician will call me. 

* What would you change about how the VA contacts you?

No. 

M: Out of those three: call, text, email, which you like the most?

Probably the more impractical - I enjoy being called by the doctor. 

M: Because you like the call or your doctor talking directly to you?

I like the doctor talking directly to me. 

## Usability

* I'm going to send you a link in Zoom's chat feature. Go ahead and click that link when you're ready.

Send link in chat: [https://preview.uxpin.com/361636c369f65453b4880d1445911c4d9b869349\#/pages/140027243/simulate/no-panels?mode=i](https://preview.uxpin.com/361636c369f65453b4880d1445911c4d9b869349#/pages/140027243/simulate/no-panels?mode=i)

Now please navigate back to Zoom and share your screen so I can follow along with you \[Direct them to the 'Share content' button and 'Share screen' as needed\].

What we're looking at now is a potential tool on VA.gov. Since it's a prototype, it may not always work like the real VA.gov does, so if there's anything you want to know more about or unsure about, let me know. If something doesn't work the way you expect, let me know what you expected it to do.

### Landing page

* Talk to me about what we're looking at here

It says manage your VA copay bills. View your VA copay balances. Sign in to create an account. How do I pay my VA copay bill. Is that what you want? 

M: Anything sticking out on this page?

No, nothing really. 

* What could you use this tool for?

I don't think I could use it. I don't pay the VA. 

M: Let's imagine you do pay copays on a semi-regular basis for the sake of the test.

(Scrolls up) Well, it doesn't seem to me that it would be particularly useful

M: Tell me more

Well, if I've got a bill to pay I'd receive a bill and just write a check for it or something of the sort. 

M: Gotcha. Let's say you were unable to receive the paper bill in the mail and this was an alternative option. 

Okay. 

* What's an example of when you might use this tool?

No, it just seems like this would make it more complicated. If I receive a bill I assume it would be an attachment of some sort. No, I think this would make it more complicated. 

M: What feels complicated about it?

Well, it just looks like it would add another layer of complexity of what I do ordinarily which would just be to pay the bill. 

* Let's say you recently had a few appointments and refilled your medication, and now you want to check if you owe anything. What would be your next step from here?

It's difficult for me to imagine because I don't pay for my medication. 

M: Anything on this page that would show you what your bills are?

(Scrolls up a little, scrolls down - hasn't looked at the sign in) I don't see anything I would use (Scrolls up to the sign in card) I don't see anything I would use.

* What would you expect to see once you sign in?

(Clicks on it) Sign into VA. I'm guessing I would need a login ID and password

M: Is that something you've done in the past on VA.gov?

I did that for a while, but it just - it wasn't being monitored like it should have been. One of the things that was an option was that I could put a request to a doctor or share information with the doctor and I wouldn't hear back for 2-3\. Which I guess is okay but I'd like a message that says, "I got your message" at least. So I guess no. 

* Go ahead and click sign in. You won't need to use your real account to sign in.

View the balances?

M: Yup

### Bill overview

* What are we looking at here?

Current copay balances. It says a balance of $130 has been sent for collection. What you owe to each facility, $300\. (Doesn't scroll further down) 

* What stands out to you about this page?  

* What are your thoughts?  

* What is missing?  

* \[If they describe the alert\]
  * What would you do next if you saw this notice?

If I see a message that says I've got a balance, I wanna get an idea of why I have a balance. From what charge it is. 

(Scrolls down past it) Well I'd want to get ahold of them and find out why I have a balance

M: How would you do that?

Generally I would call. On here I see a button you can push that asks that question.

M: Which button?

If you have (scrolls up) let's see. Resolve your copay bills. If you have questions about balance. 

M: Which one would you try first?

Well, there's three phone numbers there. I think I would probably know which of the three I should call if there's an issue. Below that it says contact us and I don't know who that's gonna be. 

M: How would you know which facility to contact about the $130 charge?

Well, if it were my charge I would be looking for the name of the facility that I'd gone to. I live in (scrubbed) so I wouldn't have gone to Philadelphia or San Diego. 

M: These are just examples. 

* What other information would you be looking for in this alert, if anything?  

* What do you think will happen if you don't do anything about this notice?  

* \[If they describe the grey cards\]

M: What do you think they mean?

Well, it looks like I've gone to three different facilities. I went to Haley Veteran's Hospital for $300, San Diego for $230 and Philadelphia is paid off. So that doesn't make a lot of sense to me.

M: What doesn't make sense?

Those three. It looks like I went to three different facilities and was billed three different amounts. 

M: Does that not seem like it would happen?

Not unless I was critically ill. Like, this says Veteran's Hospital James A Haley for one amount, and another one in San Diego for another amount, and another one in Philadelphia is cleared. 

M: You mentioned you go to separate facilities. If you did receive copayments, I know you don't, how would you expect those different facilities to be shown here?

I would hope they'd be shown in one location. I would pay that one location. 

* Where do you think that number comes from?  

* What do you think would happen if you pay that $300 charge?  

* If you were looking to take care of an outstanding bill from James A. Haley Veterans' Hospital, what would your next step be?

Well, I see it says "Resolve your copay bills". I first of all would view the balance details to be sure I was expecting a $300 bill from them. If that seemed valid then I would go to "Resolve your copay bills".

* \[If 'view bill details'\]
  * What do you expect to see there?

Okay, copay details. (Scrolling down the page) Okay I see. This is an itemized statement. (Tries to click 'Next'). Okay. 

M: What do you think?

Oh, I don't know. For an old guy it just seems more complex than it needs to be. 

M: What's complex about it?

Well, there's three pages so far. I would rather see a one liner that says "You owe this amount of money for this service".   

* What do you want to do once you're there?  

* Go ahead and click that link.

* \[If 'resolution' button'\]
  * What do you expect to see once you click on that button?  

* What do you want to be able to do once you're there?  

* Go ahead and click that button.

### Bill Detail Page

* How does this compare to what you were expecting?

* What are we looking at?

* What do you owe, based on what you see on this page?

Well, first of all $50, then $2.50, then $8, then $150, then $50, then $50\. 

M: What do you think your total is? 

Well, there's $308, $310.50\. (Does the mental math) $360\. 

* When do you need to pay by?

Oh, I don't know. I don't see that it says when it's due but I'd want to pay it right away because I don't like those things hanging over my head. 

* How much do you need to pay by that date?

* What do you think will happen if you don't pay by that date?

* Talk to me about the charges you see here

* What does this mean to you?  

* How would you normally interact with this information?

Well, it looks like you'd have to do it where it says "On this page" you'd have to do it as a total. I don't see any. No, I think we just - if I had questions I'd  have to call that number 

* Think about a time when you were reviewing charges on a bill - what were you trying to accomplish?  

* How would you use this table to do that task?  

* If you were to make a rough guess, how many individual charges would you expect to see on a monthly statement?  

* If you had questions about these charges, what would you do?  

* What do you think your options are to settle this debt?

Well, I think since I'm dealing with the government my option is to pay it. 

M: What makes you think that the only option is to pay it?

Well, I just feel like the government doesn't negotiate very much. 

* Is there anything you're unsure about in regards to this balance?

* Now that you've seen your balance, what are your options for taking care of it?

* If you wanted to pay your balance, what would you do next?

Well, I've got some stuff on here that's past due. I think I would - I think I'm just gonna have to write 'em a check. 

(Moderator directs the participant to click 'Request help with VA copay bills"

* What would you expect to happen when you click that link?  

* If you wanted to request smaller payments, what would you do next?

* What would you expect to see once you click that link?  

* Is there anything missing from this page that you would expect to see?

What would you do next if you weren't able to pay this bill?

### Wizard

* What are we looking at?

(Scrolls down) Well, we're identifying what the debt is related to. And trying to figure out how to pay it. 

* How does this compare to your expectations?

* Let's say you want to request financial help for your balance at James A. Haley Veterans' Hospital.
  * What would you do next?

Well, that's not jumping out at me. (Slowly scrolling up and down)

M: So if you wanted to get financial help

I see a place there where it says 'financial help request' 

M: What happens when you tap that? 

(Selects it and scrolls down) Okay when I tap that one it gives me the opportunity to identify who it is that feels they have the obligation to pay.

M: Which would you select for yourself?

Veteran

M: Go ahead and do that

#### FSR card

* Talk to me about the information you see here.

(Scrolls down to 'Need help') Well, it's telling me that if I need help I'm gonna have to fill out another form.

* What does this mean to you?

Oh, I dunno. 

* What would you do next?  

* What would you expect to see next?  

#### Online payment

* Let's say you want to make a payment for your balance instead.

* What would you do next?

* What would you expect to see next?  

* What are your thoughts about how you found this information?

* Do you have any questions about this information?  

## Post-Task Interview - 3 minutes

* Now that you've seen the whole copayment website, what are your impressions of the experience?

Well, it's a little hard for me to put myself into the need for this since I don't pay. I'm disabled. I'm not particularly good with a computer anymore, I think from an impractical standpoint I'd much prefer to talk to someone on the telephone. 

* Is there anything that you're unsure about?

No, I don't think so. 

* Was there anything missing that you expected to see?

No. No, there isn't. 

* How would you describe the web pages we looked at today, in a few words?

Hate to tell ya, I think we're moving more and more towards computers and I'm becoming less and less confident with them. Uhm, and that's why I think the human interaction would be better. 

M: Anything in particular about moving towards the internet that doesn't appeal to you?

No, no other than my mind isn't clear. It isn't about your stuff. 

* Do you have any other thoughts on what we talked about today?

I don't think so. 

* Any questions for me?

## Thank-You and Closing - 2 minutes

We really appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us today. Your feedback is so helpful to us as we continue to work on the site and make sure it really works for Veterans, so thank you for your time.

Lastly, do you know any other Veterans, caregivers, or service members who might be willing to participate in a future user research session? If Yes: Thank you! I'll have our team send you an email with a little blurb that you can pass along.

Great, well thank you so much again, and enjoy the rest of your day!
