## Medical Copay Discovery Research 

P14 | April 28th, 2021 | 1:30 PM EST

## Warm-up Questions - 5 minutes

* Tell me a little bit about how you currently use VA health care.

Currently I either go into a VAMC, VA medical center, or one of their community based outpatient clinics. I do some things online and some over the phone

M: What do you do online?

I usually, it may be like a counseling session with their whole health program or if I'm looking for info like downloading medical records or ordering prescriptions

M: Where do you do those tasks?

Online through VA Blue Button

* Tell me about your past experiences with VA health care copayments.

I currently haven't been charged any copayments after receiving my 10% disability rating, but prior to that I did have copayments which they usually would send me a bill in the mail, I never actually paid upfront for my copayments. 

M: What do you think about that?

Actually, I really didn't mind not having to pay upfront for financial reasons. However, when you get billed for the copayments they call an admin fee I believe. When they bill you. So it's probably better to pay it up front even though it's a small nominal fee, it's still a fee. 

* Do you get statements for VA Health Care?  

* How do you receive them?

They were, it's been a while so my recollection is gonna be a little bit vague. If I recall, they were not very descriptive of what you were being billed for. It would just say like, a copay with an admin fee and a breakdown of what you were paying for, but not specifically what you were being billed for. It's been a couple of years. 

* Do you have any other insurance plans for your health care? (Can prompt private insurance, Medicare/Medicare, TRICARE if they seem unsure)
  * (If yes) Tell me about how you manage your \_\_\_\_ insurance. (Can prompt about viewing statements/explanation of benefits online, etc.)

Not currently. 

* What sort of communications do you receive from the VA?

Usually, to let me know I have an appointment scheduled. That's about it. And the occasional if they have something, I guess that's like a widespread announcement or if it pertains to everyone like COVID shots or something they're implementing that's a general memorandum from them. Nothing specific to me. Only specific thing I receive is appointments. 

M: How do you get those announcements?

They will send them in writing, sometimes I'll get a phone call, sometimes I'll receive a text. Lately they've been in writing.

M: What do you think about receiving things in writing?

I guess it's okay. Kind of a waste of paper \* laughs\* because you'll get duplicates of the same item. I think I would prefer a text message maybe a day or two prior rather than getting it in writing because I'll lose it or forget about it. 

* What would you change about how the VA contacts you?

In terms of health care, no. I don't have too much of a problem with their current method of contact. 

## Interview (Wayfinding) - 20 minutes

* Imagine you received a letter in the mail about owing money to the VA, but you've misplaced it, what would you do?

I would probably call.

M: Who would you call?

Let's see, I'm trying to think. I've called before. They do have a billing office you can call at the facility you received your care. 

M: What would you do right now?

I would probably give them a call and ask them what it was for and when is it due. Oh! One thing, I hate to go back, but one thing I just remembered about their billing is that they accumulate bills. Like if you go see the doctor 3-4 times in a month or two month period they don't send you a bill for each visit, it's a cumulative almost quarterly or something. I would like to see that be different because when I've called it's because I've accumulated a large amount of copays and I'd be confused about okay what do I owe this from and what is this from. So usually I would call to clear up the confusion as to what I was being billed for. I hope I answered your question.

M: How would those charges be better communicated to you?

I think I would rather, I guess under those circumstances I'd rather pay up front rather than accumulating one large bill or bill me immediately after so I won't have one bill to pay because then it's more likely not to get paid if it's a large amount. Especially for someone like me who has to see multiple doctors.

M: Can you tell me more about seeing multiple doctors?

I'll have my primary care physician and then I might have to go see a different specialist like cardiologist or endocrinologist or psychiatrist so it's like different doctors at different places. My primary doctor is at the community based patient clinic but if I need to get XRAYs or something done I have to go the big VA. For example, my doctor ordered \[x\] and I had to go to an outside facility and the facility I went to sent ME the bill. They didn't send it to the hospital. So it didn't get paid and so I have to call and take care of that now. Because I was sent a bill that needed to be paid by the VA system

M: What is your path forward on that?

I intend to call the patient advocate to let her know what is going on and to, I'm not sure if I send it to her and she sends it to them. But I'll have to call the patient advocate to see what I need to do next because it is a pretty sizeable bill. 

M: Can you tell me a little bit about what about those statements (with multiple charges) that led you to need help with that?

Looking at the amount and now being fully clear of what I was being billed for because it would be, I'm trying to visualize a statement. I wish I had one out, hadn't thought about that. They're not clear as to what it is you're being billed for. I remember it just has the amount and fees, it's not that you went to the doctor and this doctor on this date. I do, I suppose, understand for HIPAA reasons that they wouldn't have information on what doctor you saw for privacy reasons. It's just a bit convoluted. 

* Is there some other way you'd prefer to find this information?  

* Next, I'm going to ask you to share your screen so I can follow along with you. There should be a green button at the bottom of your Zoom screen that says "Share Screen" - just click that, select your screen, and hit share.
* (If they haven't mentioned one of the online formats) Let's imagine there's a place online where you can access this information. Tell me what that looks like for you.

Let me see if I can use this (searches 'va debt repayment' on google)

Okay. There we go. So, you want me to pick one?

M: Which one would you pick?

Probably, well actually, (scrolls) lets see. Probably I would go with this first one. Debt management center. 

M: Why is that?

Because I see that under there it asks who to call, payment plans, I'm always about payment options. Waiver requests. Those would be things I would want to look into. 

M: Alright. Click the second link (navigates to VA.gov) What do you normally come to VA/gov for?

* MyHealtheVet
  * Talk to me about how you'd find that information  

* (If they mention logging in, ask if they'd be comfortable signing in)
* (Redirect to VA.gov afterwards)

* eBenefits
  * Talk to me about how you'd find that information  

* (If they mention logging in, ask if they'd be comfortable signing in)
* (Redirect to VA.gov afterwards)

* VA.gov
  * What do you normally come to VA.gov for?

Normally for the benefits manager. They're transitioning stuff from eBenefits, so normally to look up compensation and pension claim information. And medical information, medical records. 

* Talk to me about how you'd find that information

Uhm, well looking at this page I don't know, let's keep scrolling down. 

M: What are you looking for?

I guess I'd be looking for something that says 'debt' or 'VA debt'. Either the word 'debt' or 'payment'. One of those two

M: Why would you think payment?

I guess if I'm looking for payment history, I'm gonna be looking for something that shows money coming and going so to speak. (Now in the Health Care dropdown menu) 

* (If they mention logging in, ask if they'd be comfortable signing in)
* What keywords are you expecting to see?  

* Let's say you had an appointment at your local VA medical center and want to see the charges for your visit. What would you do to find that information?

(Clicks on VA Benefits and Health Care menu) I'd probably go to the VA BLue Button that has all your medical information and I'm assuming your payment history

M: Can you show me Blue Button?

I'm gonna go under 'Manage your health'. Now I'm gonna go to My HealtheVet so you can see the Blue Button thing because I think it'll be easier to access it from there. (is now on myhealth.va.gov trying to find it) It's under where you go into your health records (on MHV). You can see this little icon which is a blue button. That's what we look at. Oh it's being difficult (trying to sign in. Attempts using DS Logon) Okay so when you log in you see it says 'My Health Records' and then a blue button 'Medical Reports'

M: Do you use this site for anything else?

Uh, nope. Just the medical stuff. That's pretty much all that's there. I use it to download my medical records and order prescriptions. That's about it. 

M: A few minutes ago you mentioned you might expect those bills to be here. Did I understand that correctly?

Yes

M: Can you tell me where?

That I cannot. Well you see how long it took me to get here. I can't even imagine. I guess maybe if they were gonna bill you, the secure messaging. I couldn't even begin to tell you where to start looking for a medical bill online. I have no idea.

M: Full disclaimer, it isn't located on here. But where would you expect to find it?

I guess under, if it's not gonna be here (portal home) probably eBenefits and look on there.

M: But if it was on this page somewhere, where would you expect it and what would you call it?

I'd probably look under, oh. Maybe somewhere like 'Personal Information' under 'My Account' maybe. I don't know what I would call it. Medical bills? \*laughs\* 

M: You said you'd Google 'Debt repayment', can you tell me how that experience compares to finding bills compared related to health care?

I'm not sure what you mean by that.

M: If you were seeking out a bill related to health care versus a debt related to education benefits. WOuld you expect those experiences to be different?

For the VA, not too vastly different because I guess if you, they do have similar things grouped together. So like if you have any payments you owe, I would think regardless what they were for they'd be in some central location. Delineated as payments. 

M: Can you describe what would work best for you?

I think in terms of any VA debt that I owed, or just for like medical debt?

M: Do you have a distinction between the two?

Uhm, yeah. Well, maybe not. With the VA, debt is debt. But I would suppose that yeah maybe I would like if I had medical or debt owed from appointments I would like it with the rest of my medical information because if I'm looking for something then I'm looking for it in a particular place. So I'd want all my medical with medical and education with education. That's how I assume they have most of their stuff broken down, by category. 

M: Have you ever scheduled an appointment from this page?

I actually don't think I have. I usually call.

M: Click that link 'Schedule a VA Appointment'

Sure. (Clicks) Okay. So should I click one of these?

M: Yeah, it won't make you an appointment.

(Clicks) 

M: Can you describe what just happened?

I clicked on the facility I want to make an appointment so I guess it's going to the page to make an appointment. 

M: What do you think about that link directing you to this page?

I think that's a good thing 

M: Tell me more?

Seems to work at least up to this point. It takes you from one page to another page to schedule the appointment. 

* How does this experience compare finding information about money you owe to the VA?  

* Would you expect to find information about money you owe to the VA in one location?

## VPS Activity - 25 min

Alright, I want you to imagine that you are in the following scenario:

* You are a Veteran who went to a VA medical center in February for a routine checkup. In March, you went back to the VA medical center to hav a few routine tests done and you refilled your medication. Today, a couple weeks later, you received a piece of mail detailing your VA healthcare charges.
  * In a word or two, what would you call that piece of mail?

A bill

* What do you expect that mail to include?

I would expect it to include the date of the service, the cost of the service, and the due date for the bill at a minimum.

M: Anything else?

Uhm, I really guess that would be it. The date of the service, what it costs, and the due date.

* I'm going to send you a link in the chat. Since you're sharing your screen, there should be a bar at the top, hover over the "More" icon, then open Chat in the dropdown. Go ahead and click that link when you're ready.

\[Send link in chat: [https://preview.uxpin.com/a0f7710002cf5f0d104c63ea77f2c7112f0853f0\#/pages/138400205/simulate/no-panels?mode=i](https://preview.uxpin.com/a0f7710002cf5f0d104c63ea77f2c7112f0853f0#/pages/138400205/simulate/no-panels?mode=i)\]

* This is a fake copay statement. There are 4 pages here, and you can flip between the pages by clicking the little green arrows.
* How familiar are you with this letter from the VA?

Uh, only mildly familiar. Only because I have not seen one in a while. 

* What are/were your first impressions of this letter?

It's been streamlined and it's clearer what you're paying for and the charges and the date because I know previously it didn't look like this I can tell you that much. I'm not sure if -

M: Can you tell me more?

The billing reference code, on this side under the description, you didn't know what the codes are or what they're for. It isn't as detailed as this is. You can tell what he's paying for. I don't recall the extra pages of the detailed descriptions either. I'm sure they probably had something in there but I don't remember all of this (flipping through pages 2-3). It just seems more detailed than it was previously when I was being billed, and it's more easier and clearer to read

* Can you tell me what you owe, based on this letter?

Based on this letter, (scrolls down and up) I'm assuming what's owed is $242.17\. Why it's $242 I guess it's accumulated. Okay there's a previous balance and new charges. So what's owed is $242.17

* What do you think "Previous Balance" means?

I'm assuming that's an unpaid balance from previous copays or services that was not paid.

* What do you think "Payments Received" means?

That means that's money you paid towards your bill, or in this case wasn't paid towards bill \*chuckles\*

M: Where would those payments have come from?

I'm assuming the patient is having to pay the VA for some reason or another.

* What do you think "New charges" means?

I'm assuming that is whatever this is down here (description). So the doctors visit, copay, and the drugs received. So those charges, and the admin fee. So those charges related to this particular date are the new charges. 

* When do you need to pay by?

(Scrolls down) Okay I see it says due by the 15th of may

* How much do you need to pay by that date?

At least I would, well me personally I'd at least pay the past due amount. So the $139\. But apparently the $242.17 is what's due because it says please pay balance. So I assume they want it all, $242.17

* What do you think will happen if you don't pay by that date?

They'll go to collections

M: Can you tell me more about that?

Well, collections for the VA is gonna be treasury offset. So they'll take it out of any government money you have coming to you. So your taxes or from your benefits or pension. Whatever government money they can get it from and they'll take it from there

M: What do you think about that?

I guess that's fair enough. You owe it! However, I do know from previous experience that if you call they'll work with you

M: Can you tell me about that previous experience?

Sure, I've owed money for different things and I've gotten behind and called and let them know about my situation and they do offer to set up a payment plan over a period of time that works for the both of you. A couple of weeks, a couple of months. You pay a percentage of what you owe over time to prevent it from going to collections. 

* What options do you have to resolve these copay charges?

Welp, you can pay it or call and try to make a payment arrangement. So you know, pay online by mail, in person, by phone. But if you're unable to pay it (clicks to page 2) you can call and make payment arrangements to my knowledge. (clicks to page 3) Oh, apparently here you can also dispute the debt. 

* Which would you choose? Why?

For me, I would probably call and make payment arrangements because of my personal financial situation at the time. I owe it legitimately so I would want to pay it. 

M: Which option would you choose?

More than likely I would pay online

M: Have you done that before?

I have

M: Do you have thoughts on that experience?

It's been a while, so I can't really give you a fair assessment of what the experience was like but usually with the government or VA.gov you gotta click through a lot of stuff to finally get to where you're trying to go. Sometimes it can be tedious on VA websites because they do have so many different categories you gotta do a lot of clicking to get to where you need to be. 

* What would you do if you needed assistance paying?

* Talk to me about the description section.

It just tells me what services you've received. So, this patient went to his doctors visit and got a refill under prescription for high blood pressure. I'm familiar with that one. Well, a 30 day prescription refill. I'm not sure what this additional $5, or is that a $5 charge? I don't know, that's a little bit confusing. It's $50 for the visit, well you know now I'm confused. Cuz you got the copay that's $50 and it looks like they charged $5 for the drug right here and then you have another $50\. So I'm not sure what the extra $50 is for. Usually if you have appointments on the same day they only charge you for one as far as I know. You only pay one copay not copay per physician. Since you asked, now I'm confused \*laughs\*. 

M: It's possible we messed up this statement. Can you tell me what was concerning about the $5 charge?

I don't particularly know what it's for. Usually I guess your pharmaceuticals are listed as a separate charge because it looks like if I was looking at this I would think that okay the copay was $45 and the drugs were $5, the total $50\. 

M: So that first section is medication and section is copayment for visit and those don't happen together?

The drugs are usually listed as a separate charge. This looks like, I thought the $50 would be drugs which would be high for the VA. The second charge is for the actual visit and the first charge is for the actual prescription. 

* What does this mean to you?  

* How would you normally interact with this section of the letter?

If it's pretty clear I look at it and see what I'm being charged for and make sure it's correct

M: How do you make sure it's correct?

I try to keep up with my visits, so I saw and when. And then for the drugs, make sure that's correct and I was actually given what it says I was given. Like if I got 30 pills, make sure I did get 30 pills and I'm charged a correct amount. 

* If you had questions about this, what would you do?

I would call.

M: Who?

I'd probably call patient billing 

* What would you do if you received this exact piece of mail?

Well, if I received this exact piece of mail I'd call \*laughs\*. I know it's a mistake on your part but I would call. Like, what's this extra $50 for. But assuming it was correct and I knew it to be correct, I'd go ahead and go online and pay it. 

* What information is most important for you to know?

Well for me, the most important thing for me to know is what I'm being charged for. 

M: Anything that can be done to help you understand what you're being charged for?

No, because the description is pretty straightforward as to what I'm being charged for.

* Talk to me about the other pages here \[questions about statement, notice of rights\]

M: Impressions?

(Scrolling through page 2 and 3) No, I'm thinking it's pretty straightforward (page 4) One thing I do ask is what is the admin fee for. I don't see anything on here that explains why you're playing an admin fee. I don't recall what that's for and I want to know why they tack $3 extra onto the bill. Admin for what? They got interest and an admin fee. Okay it says previous statement of rights. (Page 3) Rights and responsibilities. So I guess somewhere in all of this is why they charge you an admin fee. 

* How would you use these?

Uh, no if I didn't have any problems with what I was seeing I probably wouldn't. If I was gonna flat out go and pay it no. If I was thinking I might have been charged wrong or make some other arrangements in regards to paying it I would. 

* What information is important for you?  

* What questions do you have about this statement? --

None

* Go ahead and scroll down to the bottom of the letter until you see a blue button that says "Task 2" and click on it.
* So let's say you misplaced the letter from before and forgot to pay the bill. A month later, you receive this letter in the mail.
* Can you tell me what's different about this statement compared to the last one we were looking at?

Uh, it doesn't tell you what the bill is for. It just tells you that you have a balance due. 

* Why do you think that is?

I'm thinking because you didn't pay the previous bill you received so they tacked on another admin charge. So basically I'm assuming this is a late fee for not paying your previous bill. 

M: What do you think about that description section?

Uh, I think they should probably tell you that it's a late fee. 

* What questions do you have about this statement?

I don't

* What do you think these letters could do better?

Actually, I think they're fine. I don't see anything in particular that they need to change. They're pretty comprehensive I'd say in regards to what services were received outside of this one not stating clearly that it's a late fee. 

M: Is there anything VA could do better about these copayments?

No I think they're fine. 

## Post-Task Interview - 3 minutes

* If you could describe the documents we looked at today in a word or two, what would you say?

I would say that they were pretty clear and concise. They are helpful if you have any questions regarding the payment. 

M: Name them?

VA medical bill. Billing statement

* Do you have any other thoughts on what we talked about today?

Uh, no actually I don't

* Any questions for me?

M: Where would you pay?  

They have this link up here for pay.gov   

M: Would you mind heading over to pay.gov?  

Sure.   

M: Can you show me what'd you do?  

Yup, so right on here where it says make a VA Medical Care Copayment   

M: What would you do from here?  

Let's see, after reading all of this go on to continue to the form. Fill all that stuff in.  

M: Anything on this page you're not familiar with or sure about?  

I'm pretty clear. It's straightforward.   

M: Can you talk to me about that section that says account number?  

That should be on that bill. Yeah it's on the bill that they send you. So, this number right here I'm assuming minus your last name. That would be the account number I'd put in.
