## Medical Copay Discovery Research 

P15 | April 28th | 3:30 PM

## Warm-up Questions - 5 minutes

* Tell me a little bit about how you currently use VA health care.

Well, my husband and I are, he's a reservist and I am a vet. We have medical conditions that were connected when we were active duty. We do go and see the VA out in our area. We're remote so we do use the VA for - we use remote doctors for those conditions that are service-related. 

M: What doctors? Are these VA doctors?

We were seeing VA doctors, but the commute time is over an hour so now they put us in outpatient or something so now we can see people local to our area. But we were going to see doctors at the VA for hearing and our knees. We both have crappy knees. He also had to go out there for a sleep apnea study. So that's kind of our inner action list seeing VA doctors. 

* Tell me about your past experiences with VA health care copayments.

He's got medical care through the VA so we just pay I think a $22 copay payment. So I don't think it's bad. Is that what you're looking for?

M: How do you get those charges?

We pay when we visit the doctor. We pay in the beginning. 

M: Because it's non-VA care?

Yes. Is that what you're looking for?

M: Yeah! 

* Do you get statements for VA Health Care?

Hmm, I wanna say we did about a few years ago. 

* How do you receive them?

Through the mail. 

M: So that $22 or whatever you pay, do you get reimbursed?

No. 

M: Do you get any other bills related to health care?

Yes, we do. 

M: What are those?

It's just what they don't cover during those visits. Sometimes it'll be more than th $22 copay. My husband went out and did a sleep apnea thing and got issued a CPAP which he now has to go and check up with his doctor quarterly after doing the study. So he gets the copay when he gets in and then gets billed afterwards. And he gets billed for the machines. But he did go out to the VA to get the test done, but I'm not sure how that all works but he does pay for it now. 

* Do you have any other insurance plans for your health care? (Can prompt private insurance, Medicare/Medicare, TRICARE if they seem unsure)
  * (If yes) Tell me about how you manage your \_\_\_\_ insurance. (Can prompt about viewing statements/explanation of benefits online, etc.)

No. 

* What sort of communications do you receive from the VA?

Everything's through the mail 

* What would you change about how the VA contacts you?

Uhm, I like text messages. Sounds weird! Everything goes over the text and I love it! Little reminders or they send out like, a lot of places where I make appointments they'll send out questionnaires or reminders through text. I like that. Sometimes you just take your mail and throw it somewhere, ya know?

## Interview (Wayfinding) - 20 minutes

* Imagine you received a letter in the mail about owing money to the VA, but you've misplaced it, what would you do?

I guess I would just try to call them. I'd try to call the VA here in Spokane. The hospital. That would be my first place just because I feel like I would get through easier than if I were to call a 1-800 line. 

M: What if that money owed wasn't related to health care?

Hm. I guess I would get on the website and call one of the numbers they provided on VA.gov. 

* Is there some other way you'd prefer to find this information?  

* Next, I'm going to ask you to share your screen so I can follow along with you. There should be a green button at the bottom of your Zoom screen that says "Share Screen" - just click that, select your screen, and hit share.
* (If they haven't mentioned one of the online formats) Let's imagine there's a place online where you can access this information. Tell me what that looks like for you.

(Navigates to VA.gov and searches 'health care' and goes to va.gov/health-care)

I'd call one of these lines (under 'Ask questions on the right')

M: Is there some other way you'd prefer to find this information?

Yeah, my benefits. I'd probably check there too. 

M: eBenefits?

Yes! eBenefits

M: What would you expect to see there?

Just to see if there's any outstanding payments. I know the site isn't like that but it would be cool if it was in one universal place

M: Can you explain that more to me? It's all in one place?

I so I go on to eBenefits for pretty much everything. I'm still in college, so I go on there to see status of current claims, add dependents, add marriage and all that. I don't think it's on there, the health care, your VA health care. I think it's just disability claims on there. 

(Goes to eBenefits)

* MyHealtheVet
  * Talk to me about how you'd find that information  

* (If they mention logging in, ask if they'd be comfortable signing in)
* (Redirect to VA.gov afterwards)

* eBenefits
  * Talk to me about how you'd find that information

I'm gonna look silly! Is it on here? Oh it's right there, VA Health care! (Clicks and lost connection) If it's not this then the site's always down for maintenance I sweat

M: What did you click on?

Log in. Honestly I can say I've never used this for VA health care. I've only used this for school-related things or adding my kids.

M: Have you ever received any sort of bill or non-health care related charges from the VA?

Uhm, I don't think so. 

M: If you were looking for money you owe to the VA, where would you expect to find that?

I would guess right here (hovering over 'VA Health Care') Wait hold on. Man, I would not apply but over here. I guess I would try maybe through insurance (DoD Tricare Health Insurance) or manage all your health options. This doesn't look like bills.

M: Spoiler alert - it's not on here now. What would you expect to see?

I guess when I go to pay my bills online and I go to pay my insurance or utility bills, there's an option that says 'pay my bills' but if there was one that says 'pay my bill' or 'check status of bill' and click on it and it says what you owe and what we paid, I like a breakdown too and what was covered and not covered.

M: Covered vs not covered by?

By the VA. 

M: Let's imagine this money isn't related to health care What would you expect then?

Probably an explanation of what it's related to. If you get a bill from health care or VA and it's not health care, you want to know what it is. 

M: Let's imagine you drop a class and the charges would be related to that. How would you imagine finding information about that?

My first would be the school. I'm guessing the VA would take that money I'm guessing. Let me think. (Pause) The VA wouldn't pay the school, would they? I've never had that happen to me. The VA would probably pay the school and they'd want it made up by us, so I'm guessing that would be mailed out through snail mail instead of the internet. I imagine it would be here on eBenefits, like you could access multiple options to pay it. But I imagine you'd get that through the mail. God forbid I hope I never get to that. That'd be a lot of money! 

* (If they mention logging in, ask if they'd be comfortable signing in)
* (Redirect to VA.gov afterwards)

* VA.gov
  * What do you normally come to VA.gov for?

Hmm, usually to look up information like school information, claim information. I submitted a new claim a few months ago. So, I was looking for forms I needed to submit. I was looking up education stuff on here because I graduate next year so I want to go on and get the next level so I can use all my GI Bill so I was looking to see how I could utilize for the next level of education. I came on here to look for I think dental-related. Trying to find who I could use so I didn't have to travel over an hour to the VA out in (location) so I was trying to see who was available in my area that took (insurance). 

M: (insurance)E for dental?

Right. 

M: You don't have (insurance) health care correct?

No... I don't think I do! 

* Talk to me about how you'd find that information

Ooo, (scrolls down the homepage) You know what, that's a good question

M: What were you looking for?

Just to see if there's a portal that says, 'access here.

M: Access here?

Yeah like 'Pay bill here'.

M: What would you expect to see?

How much you owe, description of what you owe, options to pay it. Like if you wanted to pay it online or by sending in a check or going into somewhere to pay it. 

M: Just health care or all debts?

Probably all debts. 

* (If they mention logging in, ask if they'd be comfortable signing in)
* What keywords are you expecting to see?  

* Let's say you had an appointment at your local VA medical center and want to see the charges for your visit. What would you do to find that information?

Honestly, I would come up and here and click 'search'. You said if you wanted to dispute it?

M: If you wanted to see the charges for the visit.

Sue them?

M: See the charges

Oh, see! I thought you said sue them! I was like what! I would probably just type in 'medical charges from recent visits' and see what pops up. 

* How does this experience compare finding information about money you owe to the VA?  

* Would you expect to find information about money you owe to the VA in one location?

## VPS Activity - 25 min

Alright, I want you to imagine that you are in the following scenario:

* You are a Veteran who went to a VA medical center in February for a routine checkup. In March, you went back to the VA medical center to hav a few routine tests done and you refilled your medication. Today, a couple weeks later, you received a piece of mail detailing your VA healthcare charges.
  * In a word or two, what would you call that piece of mail?

Like, money owed? 

* What do you expect that mail to include?

Uhm, like a detail of the appointment, what's included, like going over results, cost it's coming from like how long you spent with the provider or anything used or doing a lab or something.

M: Can you tell me more about results?

Yeah, you know how if you go to your provider there's always like a scribe or something who takes down notes what you talked about in case you can't remember? That'd be nice to see that online, what you talked about, course of action if there was something that came up during the appointment. Or like routine blood to be taken or an underlying cause and next to it was like 'lab' and this is how much they charged you for the lab and why they did the lab

M: Is that stuff you have access to now?

Uh, I wanna say yes. I just haven't actually went on there. Maybe? I wanna say it is because I see people taking notes and they give you an option that's a login to view those notes and what was discussed at your appointment but I can also say that for my husband's experience that when he actually tried to view what the scribe was talking about at his last appointment there was nothing there. SO I don't know if it was a failure on their part to upload to the patient profile because he wanted to see details of what they were saying, but there wasn't anything there. It was blank

M: These sort of providers that have providers, these aren't VA providers?

These are the outreach ones that they sent us to. It's beneficial, you know! If you want to look back at it.

M: This portal, this is specific to that clinic?

Yes

M: Not a VA domain?

No. 

* I'm going to send you a link in the chat. Since you're sharing your screen, there should be a bar at the top, hover over the "More" icon, then open Chat in the dropdown. Go ahead and click that link when you're ready.

\[Send link in chat: [https://preview.uxpin.com/a0f7710002cf5f0d104c63ea77f2c7112f0853f0\#/pages/138400205/simulate/no-panels?mode=i](https://preview.uxpin.com/a0f7710002cf5f0d104c63ea77f2c7112f0853f0#/pages/138400205/simulate/no-panels?mode=i)\]

* This is a fake copay statement. There are 4 pages here, and you can flip between the pages by clicking the little green arrows.
* How familiar are you with this letter from the VA?

I've seen one of these before.

* What are/were your first impressions of this letter?

There's a lot of information there.

M: Tell me more about that

Uhm, I mean I understand all of the extra papers because in the military there's an ungodly amount of papers you have to find and they give you a lot of information. But it's just kind of information. All this (Questions about Copayment status page)

M: Hectic?

I don't know, whenever I get other copay statements from other places it's just the first page

M: And what do you do if you have questions?

They usually just have a contact us section. They're usually straightforward and provide you the option to pay

* Can you tell me what you owe, based on this letter?

I'm guessing $242.17

* What do you think "Previous Balance" means?

Uh, what you owed from last visit.

* What do you think "Payments Received" means?

What the VA has accepted 

M: Has accepted?

I'm sorry, what they've received. Like what you've sent off from the individual 

* What do you think "New charges" means?

I'm guessing it's new charges from that specific visit. Right here there's 50, 50, and 3.17 and that equals 103.17\. 

* When do you need to pay by?

Looks like May 15th (locates at the bottom left)

* How much do you need to pay by that date?

I wanna say $242.17\. 

M: Why is that your impression?

Because here's your balance right here. There's an interest charge. I think if you want to avoid interest charges you want to pay it all off. 

* What do you think will happen if you don't pay by that date?

You get more interest charges like a credit card if you don't pay off your monthly payment.

* What options do you have to resolve these copay charges?

To actually like dispute?

M: Sure.

Or pay it?

M: Both

I mean, I would pay it through mail by sending it to the VA address down here. But, if you want you could probably go online right here (at the top) to Pay.gov and use that way. Or I guess if you want to dispute the copayments just call. It says call your local VA right here

M: That's what you'd do to dispute the charges?

Yeah

M: You said you would send in a check by mail. Is that what you'd prefer?

Yeah \*sigh\* my husband likes to do it. I like to pay online but he likes to pay by check in the mail

M: Do you know why?

I have no idea. He likes to see it in his hands. I have to go out and buy stamps and payment online is free so. I just go with what he likes. 

* Which would you choose? Why?  

* What would you do if you needed assistance paying?

* Talk to me about the description section.

What I take from it? 

M: Yeah how do you use this section?

Looks like he got prescribed some type of drug right here. A refill, looks like. 30 tablets. Not sure what this 5 is though. This charge $5?

M: What do you think it is?

Looks like there's a 30 days supply, maybe for the pharmacy to fill it? But, yeah I don't know what that $5 is. Uhm, this looks like the copay that the provider is charging $50\. And then the interest payment. I would guess that interest payment is from the previous balance. 

* What does this mean to you?  

* How would you normally interact with this section of the letter?

Just to see what I owe and verify what I'm paying is correct and use it in case, like if I already did pay off my balance. Like if I already paid the previous balance I'd use it as evidence to say hey I already sent this check in. And I guess if you needed a new refill it's like verifying what date you got the refill if you ran out of the prescription or something

M: How would you verify the charges? 

Verify the charges?

M: Yeah

Like, make sure that like what the pharmacy gave you was a 30 day supply and verify on the actual container says 4/20 30 day supply in case the pharmacy wants to dispute your claim. And make sure that the dates all match like what you're paying. 

* If you had questions about this, what would you do?

I'd call, probably. I'd call the VA. I'd call this number 'Local VA' because it says for assistance. 

* What would you do if you received this exact piece of mail?

If I verified everything was correct I'd pay it

M: By mail?

Yup. 

* What information is most important for you to know?

Probably how much I owe. 

M: Anything else?

Uhm, the most important would probably be how much I owe and then what was done during that visit. I would keep this for my records obviously

M: Tell me more?

I like to keep all my medical stuff in a file just in case. Or I go in the next month because it looks like this guy needs to get a monthly supply of whatever drug he's using. So in case they don't want to give it to you the next month he could show that's what he gets.

M: You'd keep it in a physical file?

Yeah. I just keep all my medical stuff. You never know what might happen. 

* Talk to me about the other pages here \[questions about statement, notice of rights\]

* How would you use these?

Hm, I guess the customer service part obviously if you have questions. Whatever one you prefer, that's probably what I'd look at the most. Like I said if you had questions about other things like copayments it gives a breakdown of why they're charging you and what you signed up for when you sign up for VA. You get these pages all the time, with like everything VA-related. Especially if you use education benefits, you're always receiving a summary of what is being charged, what you owe, what happens if you don't pay it. So those are expected, but it's a lot of papers.

M: Do you normally interact with these sorts of documents?

Honestly, no. Honestly, I don't look at them and if I did have questions I should look through it but if I did have questions I'd call somebody.

M: Anything specific keeping you from reading these things?

I guess it's just like, I feel like I could find the answer to what I was wondering about quicker if I just searched it on my own. I know that sounds lazy, but I mean if you want the truth \*laughs\*

M: Searched on your own?

Like if I just went to the VA.gov and typed in what my question was and see what pulled up. 

* What information is important for you?  

* What questions do you have about this statement? --

No. What was that $5 for?

M: This has come up a couple times, and I copied from a different statement and I don't know. It might be a mistake. 

I was trying to think of ideas. 

* Go ahead and scroll down to the bottom of the letter until you see a blue button that says "Task 2" and click on it.
* So let's say you misplaced the letter from before and forgot to pay the bill. A month later, you receive this letter in the mail.
* Can you tell me what's different about this statement compared to the last one we were looking at?

It's just your interest charge for not paying the last statement. Looks like they tacked on $3.20 for not paying the previous balance

M: What do you think about that?

Should probably pay your balance! \*laughs\* I mean, I understand it because if you don't pay any of your monthly payments interest charges are there. I understand that's why it's on there. I don't think I'd dispute it honestly because they send a letter out to pay the bills and (missed this)

M: What do you think about the interest charge being the only thing available?

I don't think there's anything wrong about it. You have the previous charge saying $242\. And the new charge $3.20 so I think it's straightforward. 

M: What would you do?

Pay the $245.37

* Why do you think that is?  

* What questions do you have about this statement?

None

* What do you think these letters could do better?

Uhm, honestly I mean it's straightforward. I don't really think there's anything really misleading on it. 

M: Thoughts on how VA could handle copayments better as a whole?

Uhm (pauses) no not really. I mean I, I feel like what we do now is pretty simple. But, I don't think there's anything that needs to be improved on when you're paying a copayment. Is that what you're looking for?

M: yeah that's fine! 

M: If you lost that previous statement or threw it out, what would you do to find more information about what you're being charged for?

Probably look at my medical history on VA.gov

M: That's something you're currently able to do?

I think so, yeah. I think I've done it. 

## Post-Task Interview - 3 minutes

* If you could describe the documents we looked at today in a word or two, what would you say?

Medical statements, what you owe the VA, reflecting what happened at your visit and what you owe the VA

* Do you have any other thoughts on what we talked about today?

Nope

* Any questions for me?
