## Medical copay discovery research

P2 | April 22, 2021 | 11:00 AM EST

## Warm-up Questions - 5 minutes

* Tell me a little bit about how you currently use VA health care.

VA healthcare is my primary health care. I am 100% service connected disabled.

M: Do you go often?

It's difficult for me to get to my appointments because they're like an hour away. I can't drive, but I manage. 

M: Do you use community care or go to closer places for your health care?

No. All the options for community care were actually farther away than the VA center. I have been able to use telehealth during this emergency, disaster, or whatever you wanna call it. That has been helpful. 

M: You haven't  had copayments?

Nope

M: Have you ever received a statement from VA?

Just the ranges of my coverage. 

* Tell me about your past experiences with VA health care copayments.

* Do you get statements for VA Health Care?  

* How do you receive them?  

* Do you have any other insurance plans for your health care? (Can prompt private insurance, Medicare/Medicare, TRICARE if they seem unsure)

No

* (If yes) Tell me about how you manage your \_\_\_\_ insurance. (Can prompt about viewing statements/explanation of benefits online, etc.)  

* What sort of communications do you receive from the VA?

Periodic emails, newsletters, and my primary care and mental health team are able to communicate through My HealtheVet secure messaging. 

* What would you change about how the VA contacts you?

(Hesitates) Contacts me? No, not really.

M: Out of those options, what is your preferred method of communication?

I prefer the secure messaging because it allows me to get the message directly where I want to go without dealing with the 50 step process on the phones. The phone is quite a problem because the numbers will change and if you're trying to get ahold of someone - last year I had an emergency and all the listed numbers for the 24 hour nurse and representative for this and that were all different people. 

## Interview (Wayfinding) - 20 minutes

* Imagine you received a letter in the mail about owing money to the VA, but you've misplaced it, what would you do?

Huh, I wouldn't know. I would hope there's some centralized online location where I could view my billing and payment options. Beyond that I don't know. I'd probably call the VA billing department or local health care facility.

M: How would you go about doing that?

I'd try the phone.

M: Do you have a number you'd call specifically?

I'd have to look it up. I'd Google it or look through the website for the VA facility. 

* Is there some other way you'd prefer to find this information?  

* (If they haven't mentioned one of the online formats) Let's imagine there's a place online where you can access this information. Tell me what that looks like for you.

Uh, like where I'd start looking? 

M: Yup

Well, I'd probably log into one of the VA portals and start poking around in there. 

M: Which would be your first stop?

(Paused to think about it) Probably eBenefits 

* MyHealtheVet
  * Talk to me about how you'd find that information  

* (If they mention logging in, ask if they'd be comfortable signing in)
* (Redirect to VA.gov afterwards)

* eBenefits
  * Talk to me about how you'd find that information

(The participant navigates to eBenefits and logs in) 

(Password was expired) Ugh, this always happens. 

(Updated password)

For me, there has to be a secondary way to put the password somewhere because I have short term to long term memory. Even if I write it down I might write it down incorrectly. 

M: What are you looking for?

Centralized Account Information is where I would start. It wouldn't be under payment history. I'm looking for anything connected to my central account that would link me outwards or connect me to some sort of payment. I would think payment history would be it but that's just payment incoming. 

M: Can you tell me more about why you expect it in payment history?

Makes sense that payments incoming and outgoing would be under the same umbrella. By the terminology payment history would determine incoming and outcoming. 

(Navigates to VA.gov 'View your VA payment history)

I think I've seen it before if you have a copay but I've never had to deal with it. 

* (If they mention logging in, ask if they'd be comfortable signing in)
* (Redirect to VA.gov afterwards)

* VA.gov
  * What do you normally come to VA.gov for?

Not really, no (doesn't come here often) Normally it's My HealtheVet because I can view all my medical records there and contact the medical team. 

M: What brought you to eBenefits?

I just figured it would be connected or there'd be a link I'd be able to follow. Kind of like Alice in Wonderland, going down the rabbithole. I thought there'd be something that that'd say, "Go this way" or prompt to look at another website. 

M: You thought it would be found under Payment History, was there some other link title you'd be looking for? 

Like 'Payment due' or some kind of way to handle that. Like 'Pay your VA debt' like if I got overpaid on my GI Bill loan and needed to repay that, it would make sense that somewhere connected to eBenefits there'd be a way to find where to repay that online. 

M: What other situations can you imagine that you might owe money to the VA?

I don't know at this point. 

* Talk to me about how you'd find that information  

* (If they mention logging in, ask if they'd be comfortable signing in)
* What keywords are you expecting to see?  

* Let's say you had an appointment at your local VA medical center and want to see the charges for your visit. What would you do to find that information?

Probably find some kind of copayment information 

M: Can you show me?

(Opens a new tab and googles 'VA copayment information Ann arbor VA' 

(Navigates to their VA center's Billing & Insurance page) 

I've never known that about paying at checkout. Never seen it. 

M: Your approach to finding charges was a little different for how you expected to find information about money owed to the VA. Can you explain why that was?

I guess I'm just more familiar with the process of finding benefits being a hunt and find situation. 

* How does this experience compare finding information about money you owe to the VA?  

Things to watch for

* Where do Veterans expect to interact with their VA copayments?
  * If on MHV or eBenefits, what would they be looking for and where do they expect to find it?
  * If on VA.gov, what would they be looking for and where do they expect to find it?
* How do Veterans conceptualize the mailed Veteran Patient Statements? As debts, bills, something else?
* Do Veterans expect to find their statements in their own area on VA.gov or among other VA debts/bills?
  * Does their expectation match their ideal?

## VPS Activity - 25 min

Alright, I want you to imagine that you are in the following scenario:

* You are a Veteran who went to a VA medical center in February for a routine checkup. In March, you went back to the VA medical center to have a few routine tests done and you refilled your medication. Today, a couple weeks later, you received a piece of mail detailing your VA healthcare charges.
  * In a word or two, what would you call that piece of mail?

Bill? 

* What do you expect that mail to include?

Services rendered, due date, contact information, if it was modern there'd be an online payment option or something that isn't mailing in a check or taking an hour+ trip each way. 

* I'm going to send you a link in the chat. Since you're sharing your screen, there should be a bar at the top, hover over the "More" icon, then open Chat in the dropdown. Go ahead and click that link when you're ready.

\[Send link in chat: [https://preview.uxpin.com/a0f7710002cf5f0d104c63ea77f2c7112f0853f0\#/pages/138400205/simulate/no-panels?mode=i](https://preview.uxpin.com/a0f7710002cf5f0d104c63ea77f2c7112f0853f0#/pages/138400205/simulate/no-panels?mode=i)\]

* This is a fake copay statement. There are 4 pages here, and you can flip between the pages by clicking the little green arrows.
* How familiar are you with this letter from the VA?

Not at all. First time seeing it.

* What are/were your first impressions of this letter?

(Pauses) I mean, it's just a little bit for me to get familiar with but it's not difficult. It's well put together as far as being able to delineate item to item. It's pretty straightforward.

* Can you tell me what you owe, based on this letter?

Yeah, $242.17\. 

* What do you think "Previous Balance" means?

Whatever it was that they didn't pay for the previous service. 

* What do you think "Payments Received" means?

The amount they did not pay. The patient, or insurance for that matter. 

M: Can you tell me a little more about that?

What I don't see is what the insurance covered vs the actual amount. The difference between the two. 

M: If a Veteran had another insurance company, that would be reflected? How would you expect to see that?

I don't know. 

* What do you think "New charges" means?

The new charges are for the outpatient and the copay for the prescription. 

* When do you need to pay by?

05/15/2021\.

* How much do you need to pay by that date?

Looks like the full amount. "To avoid late charges, by balance by" so.

* What do you think will happen if you don't pay by that date?

Probably deduct it from the monthly Veteran's monetary benefits. 

M: And what if you didn't have benefits to deduct from?

I don't know. Considering it's federal then there'd be a tax lien if it got large enough. 

* What options do you have to resolve these copay charges?

Looks like pay or call for assistance. 

M: Where are you seeing that?

Local VA message call this number for assistance. I think that means assistance understanding, not assistance paying. 

M: What would you do if you needed assistance paying?

Not sure. 

* Which would you choose? Why?  

* Talk to me about the description section.

For me, I'm kind of used to seeing stuff like this so it makes sense to me. 

M: Is this how you'd prefer to digest this information?

For the most part, yeah. It's well organized like I said. 

* What does this mean to you?

It means that they came in and got their medication at that one point. 

* How would you normally interact with this section of the letter?

Make sure it matches what I actually got, and that's that. 

M: Do you pay much attention to what's in these line items?

I would. I don't currently take prescriptions but I would. 

* If you had questions about this, what would you do?

Probably just call the appropriate area. If I had discrepancy about the bill I'd contact the billing agent, if the prescription was the wrong prescription I'd contact the prescribing doctor, so. 

* What would you do if you received this exact piece of mail?

Pay it. I dunno. 

M: How would you do that?

Most likely online. 

M: Do you see the option for that?

Yeah, Pay.gov

M: Have you ever used that site?

No

M: What would you expect that experience to be like?

\*Laughs\* Well, it depends on who built it and when. If it's relatively newer it should be more fluid. If It's older or built by the contractors of the lowest bidder it can be a chore. 

M: Would you mind going there?

Sure. 

M: What would be your next step?

'Make a VA Medical Care Copayment', well make an account if I didn't have one. 

M: You can say 'Pay it right here'. What do you think while looking at this?

Doesn't look complicated to me. But I'm used to navigating this stuff online. 

M: Could you go through to the next step? Do you feel comfortable with the information that's being asked?

Yeah. On this page. The only thing that has me hesitant is I can't see I'm on an https so I'd be hesitant to put this account number in an unencrypted form.

M: Do you know what the account number is?

No idea. 

M: If your goal was to pay online, what would you do now that you're here?

There is it. It'd be reflected back on the medical statement (had clicked on the link that showed where the account number is) 

* What information is most important for you to know?

The summary of charges, statement date, the methods of payment. It's got everything I think I'd need. 

* Talk to me about the other pages here \[questions about statement, notice of rights\]

Oh, just disclaimers. Legalize notice. 

* How would you use these?

I'd probably read them once. I read everything, so. I mean everything. I can see here 'hardship determination' so yeah I would read it. I can't say anyone else would. 

M: Anything on these pages jumping out at you?

If you compare it with the actual bill, aesthetically the bill was designed by a person with the visual representation of the data in mind. When you go to the legalese papers it's just blocked text. It doesn't have the same aesthetic design. There's nothing about this that says 'important' to me just by the way it looks. 

* What information is important for you?

Honestly it's all important information. Just if it's applicable in the timeframe. 

M: Can you tell me more about that?

Well, like.. No. There's stuff that's important in here. Like if you don't pay then they'll take collection action. 

* What questions do you have about this statement? --

No. 

* Go ahead and scroll down to the bottom of the letter until you see a blue button that says "Task 2" and click on it.
* So let's say you misplaced the letter from before and forgot to pay the bill. A month later, you receive this letter in the mail.
* Can you tell me what's different about this statement compared to the last one we were looking at?

Other than the $3.20 new charge, the balance is relatively the same but there's no description as far as what was what.

M: Are you missing the description?

I mean it says interest/adm whatever that internal office code. Then it says refer to previous statement of rights.

M: Do you think you should be shown it? Does it bother you?

It doesn't necessarily bother me. 

M: What do you think about the previous description not being there?

Doesn't make it any easier. Especially if you lost the previous bill. At that point you just trust it and send in the payment or not. 

M: If it was truly you, what would you do?

I'd just pay it 

M: You'd just trust it?

Yeah, if I missed a bill and it says I missed this, I'd pay it right then and there. 

* Why do you think that is?  

* What questions do you have about this statement?

No.

* What do you think these letters could do better?

Uhm, the only thing I can honestly say.. If I was in this position and having to do copayments for my health care, it would have been significantly more difficult to get health care because it would have been cost prohibitive to me. Perhaps a way of saying, "if you're having trouble paying the bill due to pandemic or economic difficulties, you know". 

M: That isn't currently being?

It's not on the splash page, or landing page, so. 

M: Any other comments?

Nope. Hm, the only thing that would make this perfect is if this was a 'view this online'. It seems to be connected to almost everything else, ya know?

M: Can you explain that?

Well, it's got the payment options, it's got almost all the other information on it right here. Like, if there was 'questions about this visit, follow this link and it would take you to the online summary of this visit that they're having a question about with this bill'.

M: Can you walk me through that ideal experience?

For example, if I didn't understand the charges or was trying to verify the medication with this statement instead of the other one, I wouldn't have the medication list. If there was a way to look up the missing information. 

M: What would you expect to see?

Just an appointment summary. At this date you visited this facility, these were the services rendered, this was the cost of those services at that time, so. 

Things to watch for:

* Where do Veterans struggle to interpret their Veteran Patient Statements?
* How do Veterans prioritize information on the statements?

## Post-Task Interview - 3 minutes

* If you could describe the documents we looked at today in a word or two, what would you say?

Good, effective 

M: How would you name it?

VA bill 

* Do you have any other thoughts on what we talked about today?

* Any questions for me?
