## Medical copay discovery research

P2 | April 22, 2021 | 1:30 PM EST

## Warm-up Questions - 5 minutes

How do you currently use VA health care?

* Uh... I use it for my only means of health care. I don't go outside the VA. I do have insurance but I don't use it. I get my medications, I get my in-person appointments in as needed, care in the community.

Have you ever received a statement?

* No, because I'm over 30% now. When I was under, I would get copays.

Other insurance?

* UDMC? Wasn't for me, it was for my wife. She didn't have insurance anymore, so I had to take care of my family.

How does that insurance interact with your healthcare?

* It doesn't. I haven't used it at all, I haven't needed to.

What sort of communications do you receive from the VA?

* COVID shot, appointment through Vet TEXT, surveys... little bit of everything. 

You mentioned Vet Text, what other formats do you use communication in?

* MyHealtheVet secure messaging.

Are there any ways you'd change how the Va contacts you?

* No. Well the VA just came out with VA Notify...

Tell me about that...

* A (non?)secure system to communicate with a Veteran back and forth that has general verbiage. Still trying to understand how it works yet.  

## Wayfinding

What would you do if you lost it

* Wait until you guys send another thing, if I forgot about it.

Another followup letter?

* If I remember it, which I won't, because I'm getting old, I'd hunt someone down and tell them to help me because I got a letter

How would you find that person?

* That's the problem. It's not a consistent process. There's supposed to be one main number, but they don't know what you're talking about. You go back and forth and play phone tag.

Is there another way you'd prefer to receive communication?

* Yeah there is, I'm just trying to remember. Those people aren't answering the phones, and they're not helping. They don't return our phone calls. 

Is phone your preferred method of contact?

* Most of the time yes. I like secure messaging because it does give me the opportunity to keep a conversation trail between me and the VA.

Do you ever search for information on any of the VA websites?

* Yeah. 

Imagine it's online, what does that look like for you?

* A lot more user friendly than the current system would be nice. Sometimes it's an overload and it's not easy to find stuff.

Where do you usually go?

* [VA.gov](http://va.gov/).

What do you normally come to[VA.gov](http://va.gov/) for?

* Sometimes I want to look at my medical records, or I know how to go through here to go to MHV or eBenefits to look for benefits.

Talk to me about how you'd find info about owing money to the VA.

* Groans
* Goes to search 'owe'
* Sees "Manage my VA debt" 
* I guess it would depend on what type of... what it's for. A lot of times I'm looking for information to help people online. I'll try to go online and figure something out and send them the page. We have some older veterans who aren't as computer savvy. They don't know how to search. I wouldn't have thought to just type debt first, until it came up. Then I was like 'oh ya, boom VA debt'.

Directs user back to VA debt page - what jumps out at you?

* Scrolls down through page
* Almost looks like it should be upside down --- "Manage your debt" - I'm checking the status of my VA debt, but I'm searching all the way down here to see what you guys consider debt before I get to that page (signed in)
* If you have to go all the way down here to go to VA copay, I doubt people are gonna get that far.

What do you think about that VA copay link in comparison to this page?

* Well, why can't you guys bold it out or make it a different color. Quit centering things - everything's down the middle straight in a line. I would've thought that the 'additional info' would be up higher. Put more information crap up here, in the green box. You can do whatever you need to do.

Talk to me about that section at the bottom --- do you think that the information in this box relates to checking your VA debt?

* Not if I first look at it, no.
* If someone asks you how to get to 'so and so' and you're standing next to a sign... people don't read. Not being mean, that just sometimes happens. It's too far down. Even if you have to tab this, copay... click click click between the tabs at the top.

You had an appointment at a VA medical center... what would you do to find that information.

* Don't know, never done that. I'd have to search to figure that out. 
* Searches "EOB" 

What did you search EOB

* Eligibility of Benefits - usually what you get from a... someone telling you what you had, what you're eligible for, what you got billed for for your visits.

You would search for EOB to find information about your last VAMC medical appointment

* Searches "What are my charges for my last visit"
* Says results won't have anything to do with it "Request and Coordinate Care -  Community Care"

What would you expect to see instead?

* LONG pause.
* Goes to Manage your VA debt.
* Probably more about... on the debt page. The debt page is your home page, and saying debt and compartmentize it that way.

Would you expect to find information about the money you owe in one location?

* Scrolls all the way down to FAQ
* Finds "Pay your VA copay bill"
* Who uses this terminology anymore? "If I disagree with my debt statement, what should I do?"

What do you think about that?

* You want to make it a little easier to find what you're looking for.
* What's too much in government-ese. I don't know what I'm looking for.
* If I tell someone to download VA form 5655 and it's a PDF - I don't know. Is it fillable?  

## Veteran Patient Statements

What would you call that piece of mail?

* Conspiracy? HA!
* It's what I said earlier - EOB - Explanation of Benefits
* Only because I worked in health care for 20 years. But if I had nothing to do with healthcare, he wouldn't know what to call it.

What do you expect that mail to include?

* Should include what you're asking. Sometimes you get those things, you read through them, and I have no idea what it's for. Sometimes you'll assume you owe money, but then you read it and you owe no money. So it's kind of confusing.

How familiar are you with these letters?

* I've seen it before. They're all pretty much the same, VA, UPMC, kind of all the same.

Can you tell me about the times you've received this letter?

* Do you really owe money or not... there's really no balance. 
* Are copays really $50 now?

What did your description receive? Was it related to health care?

* Would've been prescriptions.

First impressions?

* Hate them. I understand we're trying to give people as much info as possible, but sometimes it doesn't make it easy to read it.

What is your ideal way of displaying this information to make it more understandable for you?

* This section here you should do something with. It's all in there... I can either go online or pay by phone.

* What first jumps out at me is that you want me to send it in by mail. I think the VA would rather us pay online, less work for them.

How would you personally pay this balance?

* By American Express or VISA or something.

By filling out the form or something else?

* I'd rather go online as long as it's a secure .gov connection.

Are you familiar with[pay.gov](http://pay.gov/)?

* No

Go ahead and open a tab so we can take a look

* Goes to[pay.gov](http://pay.gov/)
* This is what I was kind of saying about the first page. Why couldn't you have a block that says 'copays' or whatever instead of making you go all the way down.

By first page, you meant Manage your Va debt

* Why can't you have \[[pay.gov](http://pay.gov/)\] there.
* I'm assuming I have to go to Make a VA Medical Care Copayment
* Clicks link

What do you think about this?

* It's telling me there's 5 steps from start to finish, pay by account number or debit card
* Continues

What are your thoughts about the information being asked for?

* Yeah... finding my VA account number. That seems it's gonna be... oh no. Can they look it up other ways? Do I need an account number? I'd like to do away with that, but that's just me. It doesn't have any other identifiers, so you do need that. I'd actually like to see the ability to scan your debit or credit card, and it uploads your information.
* Clicked on how to find account number, says he doesn't want to

What do you owe?

* 242.17

What do you think previous balance means?

* Should be money that I didn't pay

Payments received 

* Things that have been received before May 3rd of this year by the VA

New charges

* Should be the addition of the description below

When do you need to pay by?

* That's the thing here... you want us to look all around and the date's up here. The new charges should go down here (bottom of column)

How much do you need to pay by that date?

* It doesn't tell you, does it. I'd probably pay you $5 for the hell of it.

What do you think would happen if you don't pay by that date?

* Probably nothing. You would send a strongly worded letter that says 'please pay'

What options do you have to resolve these charges?

* Dunno, guess I'd have to go in person to the VA Medical Center. It doesn't even say I can make a phone call, these are phone numbers to pay... so \[long pause\] yeah, I don't know. 

Talk to me more about what you said about a phone call to pay, what do you mean?

* All you have on your letter is stuff that says "We want money" - I'd have to go to the second page (which nobody is ever gonna look at) and see the patient advocate. But what are they gonna do? You're gonna piss people off and they're gonna be mad that they have to pay money, they don't want to go to page 2 and 3\.

What would you do if you needed assistance

* I'd have to go to \[other pages\] and read the whole thing. You guys got this whole big page, at least the third of the font... the patient advocate can help you with the following. This just says hat we want money, but we don't want to help you.
* This just looks like ... it's made in 8 font with some frickin small times roman font that I can barely read. 
* \[Skims to compromise offer\]
* Why do I have to request it in writing? For the love of God
* This will just aggravate people \[other pages\] 
* You're telling me I have to put it in a form, in writing, I can't call someone or do it electronically.

Would you rather call or do it online?

* Most Veterans are around 50s, most are well versed in computers and understand them. It would be nice to make these things easier for people.
* For how about like... here (on the first page) have a QR code that I can scan so I can pay it on my phone.

Talk to me about he description section

* What do you consider the description section? Oh here. I didn't know what the heck you were talking about...
* Um... description... it's too vague. It would be nice if it said "Description of current or past activities or activities or something"- description doesn't really give you the full... whatever.

What does the section mean to you?

* Tells me I went to... a med express. They gave me some medication and they're charging me 3.17 for something they probably shouldn't be charging me.

What would you do if you received this exact piece of mail?

* Ignore it. I'd probably wait for the second one.

What questions do you have about this statement, if any?

* This one? Again, it's so much information on these type of forms. That's not just the VA, it's everybody. It's hard to go through, it's in a letter and mailed to you, that's why it's compartmentized. There needs to be more white space, font needs to be better. Better explanation of things. Or here, under description, if you have the white space available, put that section about financial help on the first page. Put it in here, in a popup box. If it fills up, it could go to the second page.  

## Veteran Patient Statements - 2nd letter

A month late you got this, what's different?

* Yeah, I'd ask what the hell you're sending me a bill for 245 dollars. There's no explanation of it. If I was in the middle of moving, and I didn't get the letter or I shredded it, I'd have no idea what this is about. 

Why do you think this letter looks like this, compared to the other one?

* Because my previous balance is 242, and you're charging me another 3 dollars for interest.

Do you have any questions about this statement?

* No. It all looks the same anymore.

You expressed ideas on how these could do better, do you think there's anything else the letters can do better?

* No.   

If you could describe these documents in a word or two

* Governmentese. If I don't have the time to sit and look through, I'll put it down, then forget about it, then I'll get this second one saying I owe even more. Then I'd have to research it to see what else it's about.
* What the hell does this mean? Statement Questions or Address change, call... but who am I calling?

You'd expect a number there?

* If you're telling me to call, yeah.
