## Medical copay discovery research

P4 | April 22, 2021 | 3:30 PM EST

## Warm-up Questions - 5 minutes

* Tell me a little bit about how you currently use VA health care.

I currently use VA health care for routine annual checkups mostly as needed. I don't have any non-billing medical treatments. I have a six month check-in with mental health in relation to my disability and I'm currently 30% disabled so I receive benefits, education benefits, so part of that is routine mental health appointments. Most of the time it's if I've got sniffles or a cold or fever I'll usually go to an urgent care clinic near me. I don't live very close to a \[VA\] clinic so I'll usually use a minute clinic at CVS for my VA care. 

M: Does VA cover that sort of care?

Yes. It's as easy as using any civilian clinic. I haven't ever gone for anything serious, but I think if I did then I think I'd go to a VA clinic because I wouldn't want to mess with anything like this, like copayments. 

M: Did you receive any sort of bill?

Nope, not for that I didn't. I received a statement of care and it said it wasn't a bill but showed what the VA paid for, for their service. 

* Tell me about your past experiences with VA health care copayments.

* Do you get statements for VA Health Care?

None yet. Everything I've done has been service disability related. 

* How do you receive them?  

* Do you have any other insurance plans for your health care? (Can prompt private insurance, Medicare/Medicare, TRICARE if they seem unsure)

I have in the past but don't right now. I just use the VA right now. When I first got out of the army I used civilian health care pretty extensively. 

* (If yes) Tell me about how you manage your \_\_\_\_ insurance. (Can prompt about viewing statements/explanation of benefits online, etc.)

I used the private insurance because it was easier to get appointments and whatnot. This was before VA covered urgent care visits. It was $25 copay visits so it wasn't worth going through the trouble of VA visits.

M: What was the trouble?

The closest VA facility was an hour and a half drive so I'd go to my local in-care provider. So it wasn't necessarily anything to do with paying bills, but I'd rather pay $25 out of pocket than do it for free and drive an hour and a half to get my temperature taken. 

* What sort of communications do you receive from the VA?

In regards to what?

M: In general

I'm enrolled in the army program so I receive periodic emails from my benefits counselor. I receive the weekly VA newsletter online. Occasionally I'll get phone calls from VA to schedule appointments. The snail mail associated with those activities as well. 

* What would you change about how the VA contacts you?

Yeah, whenever they contact about 50% of the time I get an 'unknown' caller and I don't answer it because I think it's junk mail so it goes to my voicemail. And then I have to go through you know 'Press 2 to talk to a provider' and I don't know why they called me. If they could figure out how to not mask their numbers.

M: Are phone calls something you appreciate?

I'm never able to answer my personal phone during the workday, so it just goes to voicemail and I have to call. Email I get okay, every once in a while I get text messages and those are okay.

M: What works best for you?

Email for sure. 

## Interview (Wayfinding) - 20 minutes

* Imagine you received a letter in the mail about owing money to the VA, but you've misplaced it, what would you do?

If I knew what it was for, it happened to me when I was using my education benefits. I can't remember why, but I owed them $250 for some fee associated with my enrollment at the university. I moved and so the box went one way and I don't know where it ended up. So I went to the Veterans Affairs - my university had an employee that worked on campus so I went there and figured out what I needed to pay. 

I have no idea! I'd try to figure out which service it came from, so medical or education benefits. There's two separate systems. I'd  have to think about which system it was and go online and start Googling and figure it out. I honestly have no idea what to do to start.

M: Can you tell me about health care and education?

Yeah so they call health care quote on quote benefits and then everything else. I just moved from Texas to DC and I went to the VA hospital in Texas and told them I was moving and they said to let DC know I moved there, so it's a pull system more than a push system. But when I moved to DC I let the hospital know and I did not know that my education benefits... the two systems don't talk to each other. The education side was tracking that I lived in Texas whereas the medical side tracked that I was in DC. So I had a bit of a runaround telling the two systems I was in DC. The medical system pulled me back because they thought I was still in Texas. 

M: (Prompts to share screen) 

* Is there some other way you'd prefer to find this information?  

* (If they haven't mentioned one of the online formats) Let's imagine there's a place online where you can access this information. Tell me what that looks like for you.

I'd go to Google and I'd probably say 'pay debts to the VA' 

Looks like that's where I'd go 'Payment Options - Debt Management Center - VA.gov' (Opens in new tab)

This is where I'd probably go. That's what I'd do. 

M: What sort of money owed do you think you'd be able to pay from this page?

Well, so because I know there's a medical and benefits section, I would assume this isn't the medical. Here we go, it says call DMC before making online payment. So this is what I think if I owe money to the VA itself or education. If I owed something to the VA or education benefits. I don't know if it's the same for medical or not. 

* MyHealtheVet
  * Talk to me about how you'd find that information  

* (If they mention logging in, ask if they'd be comfortable signing in)  

* (Redirect to VA.gov afterwards)  

* eBenefits
  * Talk to me about how you'd find that information  

* (If they mention logging in, ask if they'd be comfortable signing in)
* (Redirect to VA.gov afterwards)

* VA.gov
  * What do you normally come to VA.gov for?  

* Talk to me about how you'd find that information  

* (If they mention logging in, ask if they'd be comfortable signing in)
* What keywords are you expecting to see?  

* Let's say you had an appointment at your local VA medical center and want to see the charges for your visit. What would you do to find that information?

I think I'd go to My HealtheVet. That's probably where I'd start. I'd start looking around here for (clicks on Personal Information, then Pharmacy). I don't know if I'd be able to find it because I've never had to owe them.

M: Say you did have a copay. Tell me what you'd look for

I would expect it to be maybe 'Track Health', no, 'Personal health maybe' maybe until my profile.Maybe under 'My coverage'. That would be a good place because it shows what I'm available for. I'd think it would be an offshoot of health insurance. 

M: What sort of keywords or anything like that?

I'd definitely be looking for the word 'copay' or 'debt' or 'payments required' something like that. 'Copay', 'debt', 'payments' 

M: You've touched on benefits and health care would be separate. Is that the best way to do this, you think?

No, one of the misconceptions I had is when I got out of VA 'VA is VA is VA' so I'd expect to contact one VA organization and be able to pay all of my VA debts. There's nothing in the world that can take away my health care entitlement. The education benefits can come and go. As an informed person I understand there are two separate pots of money. Congress can't take away from your health care, but if times were tough they could take away your education benefits. I understand why there is that separation where there's a pot with the lid on it and another pot that can be added and taken away from. When I was in the army, I didn't have to go to the hospital. I didn't have to worry about who was paying the bill, it just got paid. It doesn't make it easy I suppose. 

M: Can you tell me more about what would make sense to you?

I might be wrong because I've never owed money to both branches at the same time, I just know when the letter comes in the mail it says 'call this number to pay off' and I call the number regardless from where that letter would come from. I've never had the misfortune of owing to both organizations, but I could see that if a person owes money to both they would just pick up their last VA benefits they owe money to I could see where that would be frustrating because they might call VA Benefits and be told they don't owe anything and be sent off into the land of confusion. 

* How does this experience compare finding information about money you owe to the VA?  

* Would you expect to find information about money you owe to the VA in one location?  

## VPS Activity - 25 min

Alright, I want you to imagine that you are in the following scenario:

* You are a Veteran who went to a VA medical center in February for a routine checkup. In March, you went back to the VA medical center to hav a few routine tests done and you refilled your medication. Today, a couple weeks later, you received a piece of mail detailing your VA healthcare charges.

* In a word or two, what would you call that piece of mail?

I guess if there were charges, I'd call it a 'bill' 

* What do you expect that mail to include?

A summary of what to place and a breakdown of what each thing costs. If it was a check-up I'd expect to see check-up, and what I owe the government. Refill, what I owe the government, blood test, what I owe the government. I would hope not to see one giant sum at the end. 

M: Anything else? 

Multiple ways to pay it would be nice. Either call the number or go to the website or use your favorite Venmo, PayPal, ways to pay. How can I make this payment in 5 minutes or less kind of thing. 

M: Anything else?

Customer service number if I had questions about charges. Other than that, that'd be just about it. 

* I'm going to send you a link in the chat. Since you're sharing your screen, there should be a bar at the top, hover over the "More" icon, then open Chat in the dropdown. Go ahead and click that link when you're ready.

\[Send link in chat: [https://preview.uxpin.com/a0f7710002cf5f0d104c63ea77f2c7112f0853f0\#/pages/138400205/simulate/no-panels?mode=i](https://preview.uxpin.com/a0f7710002cf5f0d104c63ea77f2c7112f0853f0#/pages/138400205/simulate/no-panels?mode=i)\]

* This is a fake copay statement. There are 4 pages here, and you can flip between the pages by clicking the little green arrows.
* How familiar are you with this letter from the VA?

Uhm, let me take a look at it. I've seen stuff like this. I think this is what the VA sends me when I do go to a minute clinic and it basically says 'Amount: 0' 'Copays: 0'. So I have seen this format before. 

M: What do you do with them?

They say 0 for me so I throw them in the shredder. 

* What are/were your first impressions of this letter?

I mean, whenever you get something from VA it's a feeling of dread. When I were to open this up, looking at it, it doesn't scare me but I've done civilian health insurance bills before so this looks right. There's a lot of, you see where it says 'Copay RX' I know that's a medicine, but it just looks like a lot of gobbledegoo. Outpatient care, admin charge, I would look at this and as a reasonably educated person this doesn't confuse me. It looks like stuff I didn't pay from my last doctor's visit. I'd have to do some math. It's a lot, it's not super easy to read, but I can decipher and get through it. 

M: You said you'd feel dread, can you explain that more to me?

Mostly because you don't know what it's for. The government doesn't reach out to you and say 'Hey man keep up the good work!' it's more 'we need this, you owe us this'. Maybe I'm the one guy in a million who struggles with VA, but you're bound to get something confusing. If you have questions, there's no easy, you have no VA parole officer where you can call them and one person keeps track of you. If you have a question, the number's not listed so who am I gonna call. You have to go by trial and error. You process things through trial and error. If I had any trouble with it I'd be gearing myself up for 8 hours of headache. If I don't understand the letter it's gonna be an uphill battle to figure it out. 

* Can you tell me what you owe, based on this letter?

I see I owe $242.17 and needs to be paid by May 15th 

* What do you think "Previous Balance" means?  

* What do you think "Payments Received" means?  

* What do you think "New charges" means?  

* When do you need to pay by?

* How much do you need to pay by that date?

I would assume it's $242.17 because I used to owe them $139, I did not pay any of that money, I now owe an additional $103.17\. That's the other thing, maybe I paid $139 two days ago by phone or went in person and now this arrives and now I think I owe $242 even though I already paid that $139\. I know as of whenever this was mailed, I guess the 19th of April, I owed $242, but this doesn't help me with what I owe them today. Or if I went on vacation and it's now been 90 days, what do I owe them now? 

M: In that case what would be helpful to you?

From a paper statement I don't know. Say there was, I know for my credit card I can go to my credit card app on my phone, push a button, and I know I owe them $242.17 but yesterday I bought lunch so now I really owe them $252\. If I paid this, I'd still owe them $10\. This is nice to have as a paper statement, but if there was a way to pay on Pay.gov. That's great. If there was a place to go online to check your immediate balance, I could go there to see what to pay today. I'd take this, I'd put a magnet on it to remind me to pay by the 15th of May. This wouldn't be a statement for me, but a reminder. Something where you can go to a website to check your immediate balance. 

M: What would you expect to see when you went to that link?

If you go to a credit card webpage, those are designed where the dumbest guy around borrows money and looks at his bill to see what I owe this week. Say I go to discover card (signs in) so when I go here it says I owe $353, that's what I would like to see as of today. Then I can click on this and it goes into what I owe, when I owe it, I can click to make a payment, and if I really want to look at the paper statement I can do that right here. I go to this website once a week and look make a payment, I see what my minimum payment is, I can see when my last payment is. If this were available, this would kill 90% of the confusion with VA. 

M: What sort of money would you see here?

I would expect to see this balance statement. So that splash page, I wouldn't need to see what my previous balance was, what my new charges are, I just need to see what I owe. If I'm keeping track of my finances as one assumes they should, I should know I owe them $139, and I do know I owe $242\. I should be able to click the $242\.

M: You would expect to see potential health care charges?

Yeah, hit me in the face with it. If it's not crazy, I can just pay it. 

M: Anything else you'd expect to see?

I'd expect to see a way to get to this paper copy. 

M: How do you think this experience interacts with your education?

If I were to go to this website and it shows education? I would expect to go to the benefits webpage, typically you don't owe the government money for going to college. So if I go to my benefits webpage I would click and it would say 'due to an overpayment you owe the government $250' so I would click there and it would bring me to that splash page of what you owe the government. 

M: You're describing a splash page of what you owe the government - does that include everything you owe?

Ideally, yeah. I could mentally think "Okay I paid my health care" - when I moved to DC my address was my mom's house and then I moved to an apartment. But I'm going to be moving to another state so in the course of a year I will have moved 3 times. I could have received my medical statement at my current home but my education statement arrives at my mom's house, I could go pick that up in a week or two. So if it took two weeks to get there, and then it took me two weeks to pick it up, it's been a month and now I'm overdue. 

* What do you think will happen if you don't pay by that date?

I don't know. It does say to avoid late charges, I assume I'd receive some sort of late charge. I'm assuming $3.17 is because I didn't pay the previous balance. But then it says to refer to previous statement of rights - oh yeah it's admin. It doesn't specifically say - I know your credit card bill will say if you don't pay by May 15th 2021 you'll be charged an additional blank. I would prefer to see something that says 'to avoid additional late charges of $3.17 pay balance by May 15th, 2021' I know why they do it because $3.17 isn't enough for me to fork up $242\. I may let that bill slide. It doesn't tell you what the repercussions are, just that there are some. 

* What options do you have to resolve these copay charges?

I'd pay it. I guess if you didn't agree with these payments, you could go to any of these resources up here to dispute the charge. That would be my guess. 

* Which would you choose? Why?

I would go online first. Then I don't have to deal with human beings. The mail is my least favorite choice, what am I gonna do - send a question to the VA in Oregon? When I lived in Texas we had a clinic there you could walk in and ask questions, so I might have done it in person. First online, if i was close to a clinic I'd go in, then try by phone, then mail. 

* What would you do if you needed assistance paying?

I know VA has ways of garnish your wages from your pension if you have it. I know that you can also, especially now during Corona, you can tell them you can't pay your bills. I know that with civilian health care you can call and negotiate payment. You can try to negotiate a settlement. If I couldn't pay $242.17, I'd try to go online and see if I had ways to forebear it or something. 

M: Do you want to go to Pay.gov? 

Let's do it. Honestly I'd Google 'help paying my VA medical bills'. I wonder what TNAF is. Obviously that's not a VA website. Okay so I'd go to 'Request VA Financial Hardship Assistance'. That'd be my first stop.

To answer your question about Pay.gov, I'd probably start here 'Coronavirus updates' but that probably goes to medical stuff. There we go, 'Make a VA medical copayment'. That looks like if I just want to pay it. Oh look contact the help desk. 

* Talk to me about the description section.

* What does this mean to you?

I would get this bill and say alright I owe them $50, what for. I'd make sure I got this prescription then, this is the medicine acquired, I got 30 of them, and I don't know what MD Charge is. Then I'd say yup I went to the doctor on this day. I would look and make sure this is all the stuff that happened. If it wasn't then I'd go online. 

M: Do you have thoughts about how these things are being displayed?

Yeah, it's a bunch of numbers and letters. If my doctor told me they were going to give me Claritin and it was called something else on here, I think it would help if only the medical term wasn't on it but also the over the counter term. It's a little wordy. Mostly I have problems with this medical description

* How would you normally interact with this section of the letter?  

* If you had questions about this, what would you do?

If it was a question about... probably my first step would be to call the clinic and ask if there was someone who could help me understand. I would assume they send out confusing statements every day and get a lot of phone calls. So if they couldn't explain it to me they could send me to someone who could. 

* What would you do if you received this exact piece of mail?

* What information is most important for you to know?

This right here: balance. I need to know what I owe and how I got there, and click here to pay. Personally I don't necessarily - if I was expecting this I wouldn't be worried bout all the drug gobbledeegoop. If you wanna know more click here

* Talk to me about the other pages here \[questions about statement, notice of rights\]

I mean, there's a lot of words. I understand why rights and responsibilities are here, but it's a lot. It's not like you don't get this in your credit cards' written statements. A typical Veteran is going to get the bill, read the first page, and shred it or pay it. All this is good to know, but I don't think 99.9% of people look at these pages. 

* How would you use these?

Probably as kindling to start a campfire, use the blank side for scratch paper. Honestly very few people read these. If I were to get these and I had a problem paying my bills I might dig it out and read through. They're useful to have, the older generation who isn't necessarily interested in the interweb might use them more. But for younger folks it's just filling in the envelope. But maybe at the bottom have 'If you have problem paying your bills, go to VA.gov/whatever for help' 

M: What makes you not read the other pages?

I would have thought I wouldn't need to know what's in there. Notice of rights and responsibilities that's a writing so nevermind. Third one doesn't have a title so, garbage.

* What information is important for you?  

* What questions do you have about this statement? --

I don't have any

* Go ahead and scroll down to the bottom of the letter until you see a blue button that says "Task 2" and click on it.
* So let's say you misplaced the letter from before and forgot to pay the bill. A month later, you receive this letter in the mail.
* Can you tell me what's different about this statement compared to the last one we were looking at?

Uhm, I mean all it has is the fact that I owe $3.20, it looks like I paid the previous bill from a month before, but I did not pay the late charge. But now it's .10 of interest as oppose to .07 interest, it looks like I paid the $139 and sent in a check for $100, and did not check in the $3.20\. That doesn't make sense because the interest went up $0.10\. Oh okay so I didn't pay anything. The previous balance is $242.17\. So I didn't pay anything from the month before. So it looks like for every month I don't pay I'll be paying $3.10 and an additional interest fee. 

M: What do you think would make this more clear to you?

It wouldn't hurt if it was a list of things that still haven't been paid. Pretend this one was next month. New charges occurred this month and list it. A running tally, if you will.

* Why do you think that is?  

* What questions do you have about this statement?

* What do you think these letters could do better?

Other than what we just talked about which was break down what I owe and why, like this previous balance on the first statement I don't know what that's for. Just be clearer about what I owe and why

M: Broadly, how do you think we could support you better as a Veteran receiving this debt?

Make it easier for me to get my money to the US government. I can't think of anyone who would have a problem paying their debt, but if there was a way to go to Pay.gov/VA or find a website where it has everything I owe the VA. Benefit or entitlement in one convenient location, that would solve a lot of these problems. 

M: Where would you expect that site to be found?

I would imagine if I went to VA.gov. You got health care, disability, education, records, you could have something here that says like 'What you owe the VA' or something. I should be able to go to VA.gov and sign in with My HealtheVet and then right here even if it's up here (under his name) 'You owe VA $250'. Put it right there so I can click on it and dig into it. If I need to go more than one page deep to find what I owe VA, or sign on and it's not right there then that's too many pages. 

M: You'd expect something immediately informing you?

Yup, hit me in the face with it. 

Things to watch for:

* Where do Veterans struggle to interpret their Veteran Patient Statements?
* How do Veterans prioritize information on the statements?

## Post-Task Interview - 3 minutes

* If you could describe the documents we looked at today in a word or two, what would you say?

Unclear 

Bill

* Do you have any other thoughts on what we talked about today?

Nope, I think that it's been interesting to give you guys my thoughts on this stuff. I've seen these pages and they are not terribly clear so I think it's. We can get rid of this, no one pays by credit card through the mail. I think if these changes were to be processed it would change a lot of people time. 

* Any questions for me?
