## Medical copay discovery research

P5 

## Warm-up Questions - 5 minutes

Tell me about how you use health care

* I get all of my health care from the VA, I have no other insurance. I am 100% rated, I have a complex diagnosis, so VA health care is very important to me.  

Copay statement?

* I have through the community care system on a couple of occasions, but not through in-house VA care.  

Tell me more about that statement from community care?

* In most cases, 80% of the time, through community care, there isn't too much of an issue getting the copay taken care of so I don't have to pay out of pocket. However, I have one outstanding bill (removed for PII). It's not paid, it's been negatively affecting my credit. It's been several years and with all of the changes in the contractor that provides that outpatient care, I can't get it resolved because nobody can say who's responsible to make sure that that provider gets paid, so that I can get it paid and off my credit.  

How did you receive that copay statement?

* Came to me in the mail, directly. I took it to the Va. I went back to the provider, I went back to the company trying to collect the fee. I did everything I thought I was supposed to do because I thought it was VA authorized care. I've been doing that for years and it's still not resolved. I've moved several times cross-country several times, and nobody can seem to figure it out. There's always some "new system" in the VA that's supposed to solve this. They give me a new number, but it never helps. VA never says "we screwed up" - I don't care who pays it. Just pay it, I'm the one being penalized.  

Multiple phone numbers...

* Contacting via phone, at first, I started with phone numbers with the providers that I had. Numbers on a billing statement, collection agency, VA hospital billing department, patient advocate at the VA hospital... the director of the VA hospital, because I happened to know their number at the time. I pulled all of the cards that I had, I was given number after number, because I moved. I was told I had to call another hospital that was supposed to be handling these things. That wasn't helpful, they gave me a toll-free number that was supposed to handle Veteran complaints. It was a never ending line of numbers to call, and they ask who you've talked to --- everyone. I can tell you who didn't help --- all of them.  

How do you feel about phone calls in general?

* Sometimes they're great. Sometimes you get someone who's patient and knowledgeable and seems invested in helping me. I appreciate that. Sometimes I get on the phone and I'm frustrated and in pain. I'm just trying to figure out howave  to get my pain taken care of, and I'm not the nicest person. Sometimes I'll call back and apologize. It's not consistent enough across the system. I've used the example of Chick-Fil-A and the Apple store as being the two best customer service systems on the market. They have an influx of customers from open to close, rarely, even when they have dissatisfied customers, are unhappy with their service. I think the VA could learn from that. Another thing is being knowledgeable. The VA has, in it's best efforts, created a labyrinth of systems. How many VISNs are there? Over 11? 11 VISNs, all of them work differently, none of them connect. I've been in at least 4 of them and none of them work the same. I moved from CA to GA to CA to DC to CA to DC to CA to FL. I have medications that are non-formulary. I have to qualify these medications every time. So I go without certain medications for months because I have to go through the process all over again, even though it's supposedly "once in the VA, always in the VA'' with that 1010ez, but that's not the case. There's no transferring from one VA to another. It's a complete re enrollment, they can't see your records. Well they can, they just don't want to because it's two different screens to pull up. So the 1500 questions I have to go through...  They don't want to give it to me, they don't bother to look through my records to see if I qualify.

Is phone how you preferred to communicate?

* It doesn't have to be if they're consistent with their communication, or if they need... to expound on something. I can do it on computer, that's fine. I can send voice links, that's fine too. But if I'm trying to call my provider and I have to go through 3 different automated systems. I have an easier time getting a hold of Jesus.  

What sort of communications do you receive from VA?

* I signed up for emails, text notifications, all of the communications I can get. I'm new to the area, so I don't have a connection to the system that I had previously. I had been employed in the system in my previous locations as a community provider working for the VA, so I had 2 different ways to engage. I could give my personal feedback and also what I see in the community. That's not my experience where I am now, so I've plugged in as many ways as I can.  I don't hear from my provider unless I basically tell on her. I sent a message (and I understand it's COVID and there are crazy schedules) but I sent a message about my prescriptions about 2 months ago, and she just called me a week ago. It wasn't her, it was her nurse. When I went for my appointment, she didn't know her nurse called me.   

How?

* Secure messaging MHV, it's been useless in this VISN. 
* When I was in DC, it was great, because of the complexity of my diagnoses, my doc and I had regularly scheduled appointments for checkins. We stayed in communication throughout. She would get back to me within 24 hours, if not just a few hours, with next steps. Same thing in San Diego and Lancaster in the desert.  

## Wayfinding

Misplaced letter:

* I would first go to my secure messaging (MHV) and see if I have the contact for billing for my hospital, or something of that nature to see if they can help me track that down. If not, see if they can help me figure out who would. I would go to the website (God forbid, this website) and try to find the same information on the website. Is there a billing department or something related to that that might help me figure this out. I know there's usually travel, billing, something like that... and either try to contact them with email or direct message, and also get their email and contact them that way.  

Which website?

* Tricky for this area, pensacola or Biloxi or Egland, so I would start with Egland because that's what I'm assigned to most directly, and work backward. I don't know if bills come out of Biloxi.  Their homepages.  

Could you show me which website?

* [VA.gov](http://va.gov/), then looked through profiles, then[va.gov/locations](http://va.gov/locations), then clicked find a location, then clicked a specific place, and the Website link.  

Find letter online, 

* That would look like something where I could do a search, input a query... based on certain data fields, probably location, facilities, my name, maybe even the provider's name. I remember the provider that did my procedure, so it would be cool to look him up based on that procedure, then pull up the records related to that procedure. The financial records don't go into the medical record, they don't follow together. When I call, we have to sort it out and dig it up in a whole different system that doesn't really exist. If there was a place to house that and sort through the files, that would be great.

Where would you think this tool would exist?

* So this could be on HealtheVet, it should definitely be connected to these things that already exist. MHV and eBenefits, because those are places Veterans go and they need to find the records. If we go to outside providers, if we can get those records, great. We can put them into the VA record, but people don't often go back to make sure they're in there. My provider doesn't know anything that I'm talking about. When I go back to my appointment, my neurologist said this, that, and the other, and they're clueless.

What is Triwest?

* Main contract holders for community care referrals. They were the western US and then the company that was doing the contract for part of the southeast/mid atlantic lost their contract, and Triwest took it too.

You mentioned MHV and eBenefits would hold this, what does accessing that look like for you?

* So the way I access them ... I sign in, but they facilitated it ,where now on my phone, I can log in. They combined login so you can use DSLogin... it's just simple username and password.
* For eBenefits, went to /jobs, got redirected to[VA.gov](http://va.gov/) - "that's not what I want"
* Typed 'myebenefits': "I never remember the name for this one"
* I think your company has worked on this similar product, and I mentioned that the Va has created a labyrinth, so many doors opening into the same room. Many pathways going to the same place. With eBenefits, there's a login, but you can get to \[links\], it gets you to the medical page you we're just on. So they try to make it a one-stop shop, but I know when you open these on other devices, you can use other logins. Being able to bring those together... so having those records and accessing them from the community care providers that also have the billing piece. We're trying to get these bills taken care of, and it's hard to track them down. When someone asks me "who did you talk to?" --- I ask "Who did I talk to 15 years ago?" That doesn't matter, they don't work here anymore.

You had an appointment, where would you find charges for that appointment?

* On this webpage \[[VA.gov](http://va.gov/)\], as it exists, nothing. I'm looking at all of national resource directory... digital media... um... 

What are you expecting to see?

* Um... if I were looking for something about billing? Something that says f@\*king billing.

Where would you expect to see that?

* Um... if there were to be a category... \[stops at blue section\] you could possibly put it here at Records. Or you could create something that lends itself to... financial or billing or something, but nothing above... I'm not going to click 10,000 links to figure out which one is supposed to help me with my billing issue. None of them do right now.   

What would you expect to happen if you clicked on the link?

* I'm a believer in the three click rule, in that time, I should be able to find what I need. If I'm looking to find the contact for billing, someone who I can call... that or the paperwork I need to get my billing claim started. If it is "Get a copy of my bill" - those are 3 things that could happen in 3 clicks.

Anything else you'd want to see there?

* I think the only other thing is how to get the concern forwarded. I think that concerns like mine exist, and we're not able to get them heard.

What do you mean by that?

* I'm fortunate because I found your company and I jumped on it. It's not just an opportunity to build and structure these things, but also to get the struggles and challenges I've had, to get those moved up. You have the platform, but I've been fortunate in my lifetime to have the opportunity to speak to people in different positions to make things heard or to know where to go to do that. With billing, it's a complicated experience and one that's not easily explained. If you can get the case studies, maybe it can be addressed in the short time and in the long.  

## Veteran Patient Statement - First

What would you call that piece of mail?

* I would call it a billing statement.

What would you expect that mail to include?

* I would expect it to include my personally identifying information, what services are provided and covered, at what cost... what services are provided and not covered at what cost. And an explanation as to why. Just as any civilian hospital would do. The actual cost, not the $13,000 blood draw stuff. Payment options, and timeline. Pretty standard.

What do you mean by timeline?

* I think one of the challenges for veterans is veteran entitlement. Some veterans feel that everything should just be given to them just by virtue of service. Not fully grasping or accepting that there's a scale for that. But also understanding that some veterans are in challenging financial situations and they're probably going to the VA because that's what they need. How do we balance that, how do we give them a timeline that's reasonable and allows them to get the services that they need... you don't know who's who. That's what my thought is with the timeline, how do we help people get what they need? That's my hippy platform.  

How familiar are you with this letter?

* Um... not terribly with THIS letter but I'm pretty familiar with billing statements and medical bills, so...
* Flips to other pages, seems to pause reading stuff
* "This makes sense for the audience"
* It looks pretty standard
* "I finally got my VA glasses, you'd think I'd be wearing them."  

What are your first impressions?

* So... it looks pretty simple... \[continuing to read 3rd page\] to me. This is what we were talking about - the timeline for payment. This is a sliding scale, you have so many different payment options, one if your disability rate changes, and it can be retroactive, you can suggest a compromise where you can pay $50 instead of $100\. There are lots of options that are spelled out right upfront. 

How do you feel about that?

* I feel like... that's fair. I feel like a lot of people would try to make that work. I know like, my grandmother would pay $5 on her light bill forever. I'm like "dang, grandma!" What is your light bill, like $.50? 
* \[Really reads all of the pages!\]
* Okay, so I think, looking at it, the information is great. The one thing that kind of pops out to me, other than looking at it... is that it needs to be in this specific order, or in the way that it fits. I would wonder if reordering it the way we really want people to consume the information. That would be my only thought, this information is valuable. I was just wondering if, you know, it's like putting things eye level at the grocery store. That's my gut. People consume things in different ways, and if they're upset or freaked out, like... how do they read this? What do you want to be sure that they get first and hold onto?

Tell me more about reorganizing this information..

* So... I see customer service and submitting requests and hardship determination on the last page. So "Rights and Responsibilities" on the second to last page. I'm just wondering... are there two customer service sections??? One on the second page and one on the last page. 

What do you think about that? 

* Well.. I don't think you need two. Maybe you can make one bigger if you really want to emphasize customer service. If it's the same information. But as far as the rights and responsibilities... ya, I guess it just kinda works best to leave it as it is.

What do you owe?

* \[long pause\] It says the balance is 242, because it's a previous balance of 139, I didn't make any payments, then there was another 103.17 charge, so that gets added to the previous balance to get the balance.

When do you need to pay by?

* So it looks like... 15th of May. 

How much do you need to pay by that date?

* \[pause\] so, let's see... \[looooooong pause\] so it looks like... the balance should be paid by yeah. The balance should be paid, however, based on the following pages, I do have some options if I can't pay the full amount. I have the option to suggest a compromise if I can't pay the full amount, a repayment plan, I can dispute the full amount, or I can submit it for hardship review and say I'm just not able to pay the full amount and submit the 1010ez.

What do you think will happen if you don't pay?

* If I don't pay the balance by that date, let's see... so I have 60 days before it goes into collection, it also says there's a late charge if the balance is unpaid 30 days after the statement date. I can still work on those 4 options, but couldn't guarantee they'd be approved, but there are still options, between the 30 days after the balance due date vs the 60 days it faces collection.

What would you do if you needed assistance paying?

* If I needed assistance, I would engage these options. I wouldn't try them all at first though, I'd pick which one matches my situation. I would try the compromise or payment plan, right? Low hanging fruit. While working those with VA, I would see what I can do on my end. There are a number of nonprofits still working to provide for expenses for medical.

Talk to me about the description section in this letter.

* Ok. So it's a little... tight. In terms of trying to understand what is happening. I see a copay for a drug and it's the same copay for an outpatient care visit. Looks like they're related. And then an admin charge. 

What makes them look related?

* Billing reference looks really similar. But they're different years....
* I can't tell you what I was given when I was in the hospital, so if I got a bill, I can't tell you if it was right or wrong. I've been in the hospital with my friend, because I was being vigilant and not being nice to the nurses. I could pay attention, but I couldn't keep track of everything he was getting, when, and how much. When he got a statement, it was like "yes or no, you got what you paid for." There's a lot of trust that goes into these statements. We have to work to be diligent that it's clear and understanding. How do we account for how this can be digestible for the average person. How is it not overwhelming, especially for someone who went through a traumatic experience for this stay. That's what I think about when I look at these. I don't get emotional about it, but that's what I think of when I think about how someone else would experience this. It doesn't have to be pretty colors, just understandable - they're not going to be able to audit this.

Tell me more about what that looks like for the description

* So making it clear... I understand this is smaller because of the format, but the text is very tight. Even after putting my glasses on, it's still hard to read. Typing, bolder type is a little bit easier. More of the typewriter type, which is a little bit bigger, is a little easier. Moving the sub indent. It looks like the physician is next to the quantity. Why do we have 30 physicians? It doesn't really... but then, yeah.

If you had questions about the description, what would you do?

* Here's the tricky part. This is VA. The person answering that phone is not gonna know anything about the drugs on this list or the care on this list or the doctor on this list. All they're gonna know is that your bill is not paid. I guess it depends on what my question is. If the question is about my care, then I wanna go back to my provider, which would be Dr. Dayal. If I had questions about my bill, then I'll go to the VA billing department.

Do you have any questions about the statement?

* I think it's cute that you still have AmEx and Discover cards, that goes way back. It's interesting that you can't pay this online.

Can you tell me more?

* It's the 21st century...
* Oh it's[pay.gov](http://pay.gov/) - hold on, we gotta look at this. We're going to[pay.gov](http://pay.gov/), friends!
* Pay it right here \>
* "Complete Agency Form? Do you see a form??? I haven't smoked weed in a long time... let's see what this \[preview form\] is. Come on VA, do they not know how the internet works? How are they gonna be like pay online, go to this website, to make a PDF form? Look at this sloppy mess (referring to lack of \*)
* Doesn't see the CONTINUE TO THE FORM button until very late
* So this is the form I'm supposed to complete before I get to the form... I 
* Account number? Where do I find my VA account number? Let's see what that is \[button for pdf instructions\]
* Seems overall very confused by the info being asked "Payer's"... 
* SUPER unimpressed by everything, thinks she'll find typos, thinks everything is a mistake
* This is basic and the fact that they make it like... I think my kids could make this form. This is... really a rudimentary form for like... this account number has 5 inputs. I really want to know how many boxes. I want to know how many numbers fit in the boxes. MY account number is my social, and that's 9 digits... but it's like somebody... it's not even like a full adobe form. It's very rudimentary.
* If online is a payment option, why is it tucked up in the corner? 

Where would you expect it?

* I thought it was a typo. Because look... I saw ONLINE: --- I didn't even see[pay.gov](http://pay.gov/) at first. I saw these (mail slip), so if that's gonna be a thing, move it down because it's so pushed up and you can't really distinguish it. Besides getting things in the mail, why are we getting things in the mail? Have you seen the postal service lately? Not everything is online, you have a whole bunch of ... my daughter and son are getting out of the military. You got a whole digital native generation that isn't gonna care about getting stuff in the mail. She texts me in tiktoks. Post 9/11, forget it, those guys are old. I'm talking about the generation behind them that are starting to age out, so ya these definitely need to be digital. If you make them digital, I have email, I've been getting email since 2000\. That will get rid of the six boxes of crap I've been lugging around for 20 years. I would say a few formatting adjustments so it's just more legible. Stare at it on your computer screen, if it's comfortable to read on a computer screen, you can read it on paper.   

## Veteran Patient Statement - Second

* Ok, the balance has increased by 3.20\. The charges for $50 have disappeared here. So it just looks like a new admin fee. So I guess that's the late fee? Which isn't terrible, I'm not gonna be excited about it... because it's late. So it's got a new date of 6/15\. Well you can still make payments, you're within the 30 days of a late payment, and within 60 days of a collection, so you still have options...  

Describe the documents in a word or two

* Informative, bordering on antiquated.

If you could name them, what would you call them:

* Billing statement

*
