# Medical Copayment discovery research
  
P6 | April 26, 2021 | 9:30 AM EST

## Warm-up Questions - 5 minutes

* Tell me a little bit about how you currently use VA health care.

I use it for all my health care, except for dental. 

* Tell me about your past experiences with VA health care copayments.

Never had 'em. 

M: received any mail regarding health care?

Not payment wise, I guess

* Do you get statements for VA Health Care?  

* How do you receive them?  

* Do you have any other insurance plans for your health care? (Can prompt private insurance, Medicare/Medicare, TRICARE if they seem unsure)
  * (If yes) Tell me about how you manage your \_\_\_\_ insurance. (Can prompt about viewing statements/explanation of benefits online, etc.)

I do not

* What sort of communications do you receive from the VA?

Letters and, I guess I should tell you I work there too. 

* What would you change about how the VA contacts you?

## Interview (Wayfinding) - 20 minutes

* Imagine you received a letter in the mail about owing money to the VA, but you've misplaced it, what would you do?

I would go to I think eligibility office or something like that to get a reprint. 

M: Can you tell me how you would do that?

Walk down and talk to the guy I know that works there. 

* Is there some other way you'd prefer to find this information?

Uhm, I guess they just introduced me to this new thing with the travel pay. I was kind of curious to see if you could go through that to do it. It's called AccessVA. It's got a place where, that's how they're trying to do the Veterans travel claim. It's all computerized 

M: Have you used it before?

A month or two. It's interesting. There's a lot to it. I think I can get an identification card from it. I have it open now. 

M: Access the letters received?

It's that eBenefits? That's the one I can go in and get the different letters for my disability rating and everything is. 

M: What sort of letters would you see regarding money owed to the VA?

There's a section that shows what the VA pays you and what you owe VA. I used the post-9/11 back in the day. I like using computers a lot better, but I do know there's some other vets that probably don't like to use computers. 

* Next, I'm going to ask you to share your screen so I can follow along with you. There should be a green button at the bottom of your Zoom screen that says "Share Screen" - just click that, select your screen, and hit share.
* (If they haven't mentioned one of the online formats) Let's imagine there's a place online where you can access this information. Tell me what that looks like for you.

M: You said you'd expect to find these letters on eBenefits, can you show me?

* MyHealtheVet
  * Talk to me about how you'd find that information  

* (If they mention logging in, ask if they'd be comfortable signing in)
* (Redirect to VA.gov afterwards)

* eBenefits
  * Talk to me about how you'd find that information

I'm guessing it would be in here somewhere, I haven't dug into it. (clicks on 'VA letters' under 'Mange Benefits', attempts to sign in and it's suspended due to excessive failed logon attempts) 

This is the first time I've logged in, in over a year. 

Maybe I'd find it under 'VA health care'. I imagine they'll want to keep everything similar under what tab. 

M: You mentioned that you have some experience with education benefits in the past, did you say you had ever received an overpayment for those?

I did not. I have not. 

M: If you had, where would you expect to find that mail?

I shoulda looked into this before I got.. There's a 'clicks on 'Apply for benefits'. I can't remember. I know there's a place I can get onto where I can see the disability paychecks and education benefits they've paid me. I can't remember where it's all at. 

M: That page where you see all the payments you've received, that's where you'd expect payments to make? All together?

Mmhmm

M: How would you expect that to look?

I guess, I don't know what you're saying. ('VA payment history') This is where I'd expect to find it. I would like to see a website that's not as gaudy. Not as much tabs and stuff written over it, it would be easier if it was more of a setup like apps are on a cell phone. You can see an individual square on the screen that might say 'Copayments you've paid' 'Copayments still due', and so on. It'd be easy to understand. This is a lot to read to figure out everything. 

M: So you're expecting a box that says a total amount?

Yes. Like, I just bought a new car and I got an app for it now that shows me everything. How much I paid, how much I owe. I would imagine something like that with today's technology. Everyone's got a smartphone besides my 80 year old uncle. 

* (If they mention logging in, ask if they'd be comfortable signing in)
* (Redirect to VA.gov afterwards)

* VA.gov
  * What do you normally come to VA.gov for?  

* Talk to me about how you'd find that information  

* (If they mention logging in, ask if they'd be comfortable signing in)
* What keywords are you expecting to see?  

* Let's say you had an appointment at your local VA medical center and want to see the charges for your visit. What would you do to find that information?

I have no idea. I mean, I go to My HealtheVet to look up where my appointment is, but I don't know where to go to look to see how much it would cost. 

M: If you had gone to an appointment yesterday and knew what time it was, would your first instinct be to go to My HealtheVet for charges?

I don't know. I've never worried about paying a copayment. I don't know where I'd go. I'd guess maybe under My HealtheVet because UAMS have my chart and it has everything underneath it. I guess my first instinct would be My HealtheVet

M: Can you tell me about those other two acronyms? 

My wife goes to \[medical location\] and has something called My Chart. And they can see interest, how much they owe, shows all blood results. It shows everything My HealtheVet does except payments, unless it does. I've never really looked into it.

* How does this experience compare finding information about money you owe to the VA?  

* Would you expect to find information about money you owe to the VA in one location?

## VPS Activity - 25 min

Alright, I want you to imagine that you are in the following scenario:

* You are a Veteran who went to a VA medical center in February for a routine checkup. In March, you went back to the VA medical center to hav a few routine tests done and you refilled your medication. Today, a couple weeks later, you received a piece of mail detailing your VA healthcare charges.
  * In a word or two, what would you call that piece of mail?

Bill

* What do you expect that mail to include?

A breakdown of what each item costs and then maybe an explanation at the end that tells you why you're paying this much for it.

M: Can you tell me more about that?

I guess, telling you why... maybe breaking down and telling you why you owe something. I've heard complaints and veterans mumble under their breath since I work here since it's not cut and dry. It just shows VA visit and amount, it doesn't really break down what you're paying for and why.

* I'm going to send you a link in the chat. Since you're sharing your screen, there should be a bar at the top, hover over the "More" icon, then open Chat in the dropdown. Go ahead and click that link when you're ready.

\[Send link in chat: [https://preview.uxpin.com/a0f7710002cf5f0d104c63ea77f2c7112f0853f0\#/pages/138400205/simulate/no-panels?mode=i](https://preview.uxpin.com/a0f7710002cf5f0d104c63ea77f2c7112f0853f0#/pages/138400205/simulate/no-panels?mode=i)\]

* This is a fake copay statement. There are 4 pages here, and you can flip between the pages by clicking the little green arrows.
* How familiar are you with this letter from the VA?

Never seen it.

* What are/were your first impressions of this letter?

Uh, kinda looks like a normal bill.

M: Can you tell me more?

Like a bill I'd get for electricity or something. Shows what's due, payments received, what you owe, what you might be owing if you haven't paid everything up front, account number, when the statement was printed. 

* Can you tell me what you owe, based on this letter?

$242.17

* What do you think "Previous Balance" means?

What might have been the last charge you didn't pay

* What do you think "Payments Received" means?

The amount you've paid against a balance

M: Which balance?

Maybe the previous balance

* What do you think "New charges" means?

What this bill is actually being charged. Whatever this visit is talking about. I guess this one's by a date, he was there 4/20\. I'm guessing the new charges are for what happened on that date.

* When do you need to pay by?

May 12th, oh no May 15th. Sorry.

* How much do you need to pay by that date?

I guess it depends on how you feel. I'd bet you'd have to pay it all off.

M: What do you mean it depends on how you feel?

Some people try to make a minimum payment but it doesn't look like there is one

* What do you think will happen if you don't pay by that date?

You'd get more interest charged

* What options do you have to resolve these copay charges?

Pay them or call that number

M: What do you expect to happen when calling that number?

Maybe for them to break it down more and maybe help 

M: You said maybe

I guess I'd hope they'd maybe help you make a payment plan if you can't pay the balance upfront 

* Which would you choose? Why?

I'd pay it all off

M: How would you do that?

Usually a credit card

M: How would you pay with your credit card?

Over the phone, or if there was a way online I'd do it online. I guess you can't - oh wait you can. 

M: What do you think about that?

Is it a website like, if you sent this statement digitally could I click on it?

M: This is paper mail

So, they don't send it in your email?

M: No. Is that something you'd expect?

I'd think with the way we're going with technology these days, 90% of people having a smartphone and if there's a hyperlink in a bill you could click where you need to go to pay

M: Do you mind going to that link? 

Wow, pretty

M: So what would you do next?

(Scrolls down the homepage) I guess I'd create an account. 

M: So you'd expect to create an account 

At least the first time, yeah

M: Is there some way to pay a medical copayment on this page?

Right there, make a VA Medical Care Copayment

M: You can click into that. What do you think about what you're seeing here?

Self-explanatory. (Clicks preview form) I guess I was just seeing if there was a, so this is all you have to do is fill this out?

M: So you'd fill it out from here?

No I'd hit 'Continue to the form'. I was previewing it to see if there was a thing that said a fee with the credit or debit card. I pay a lot of my stuff online.

M: Have you seen the preview form a lot?

No, but I figured that'd be the first place to go to see if there was a fee for using a credit card. 

M: What would you do next?

(Clicks into the form) 

M: Would you be comfortable filling this out?

Yeah, this would be really easy.

M: Anything standing out?

The account number. I'd probably make this a different color, that gray

M: What do you think the account number is?

I don't know. I was gonna say social security number but there's not enough boxes

M: Why?

Everything in the military is tied to your social security number. Even my disability claims. What is the account number? It's on the bill, isn't it?

M: You're saying the grey box? What do you think the grey box does?

Helps you find your account number. 

* What would you do if you needed assistance paying?

Hmm. I don't know. 

* Talk to me about the description section.

I guess it breaks it down on what it was. 

* What does this mean to you?

I don't know, I'd be confused why it's $50 

m: Can you tell me more?

It tells you what you got and how much charge, but I guess I don't know how they got $50\. It says quantity 30, day, amount, MD charge $5\. To me it seems you're charging $5 for bill, but I don't know how they got $50\. It's all one line, you don't stop anywhere, I don't know what this DAYAL would stand for. Daily limit?

M: How do you feel about the way this information is presented?

This just seems really drawn out and a lot. Doesn't really show you how they got to the amount of $50, I guess/

M: What information would you expect to explain why it's $50?

Maybe a code that should be kind of similar for everybody

M: Can you tell me more about that?

I'd think you'd want to put a code like, "This code amounts to $50" so they know th ey're going to get charged $50 and any time they get that code they're charged the same amount

M: What does that code look like?

I don't know. There's so many different ways people do it?

M: Is it like, medication?

I'd think it'd be unique. I imagine people have different copays for the same thing. It depends on their disability and what they filled out with the VA, correct? I don't like the way this looks. 

* How would you normally interact with this section of the letter?

I guess on my first one I'd call and figure out why.

* If you had questions about this, what would you do?

Would call and hope for more of an explanation

M: What sort of explanation?

Why is it $50? It just, I don't understand. No where does 5 and 30 come out to $50 in my book. That would be the first thing. Maybe you get charged for every third pill?

* What would you do if you received this exact piece of mail?

* What information is most important for you to know?

Why, and what it was for. This does say 'drug' but I still want to know how they got to the $50 amount. 

* Talk to me about the other pages here \[questions about statement, notice of rights\]

I'd probably read it the first time I received it and then skim over it to make sure it all looks the same. (Reading through the pages and saying 'Hm' often).

M: What are you thinking?

There's a lot of words. I like it to be straight and to the point. 

M: How could it be made more straight to the point for you?

I don't know. 

M: What about these pages seems like too many words?

Just seems like a lot to read. I'd think they could shorten it, maybe. 

* How would you use these?  

* What information is important for you?

I mean, I don't know. 

* What questions do you have about this statement? --

Does these three pages come with every bill?

M: Yes

I see. Redundant, but. They do it with pharmacy too.

M: It feels redundant to you?

I guess as a person I would keep one. I thought I'd just get that front page. Maybe when they sign up at the VA office they get one package that explains everything on there. And at the bottom you can view your packet for more information. That way VA isn't wasting so much paper and it would be cheaper. I imagine some of these could get pretty thick. 

* Go ahead and scroll down to the bottom of the letter until you see a blue button that says "Task 2" and click on it.
* So let's say you misplaced the letter from before and forgot to pay the bill. A month later, you receive this letter in the mail.
* Can you tell me what's different about this statement compared to the last one we were looking at?

It only has interest. 

M: What do you think about that?

I don't know. I guess it would be weird to get something like this. I guess I wouldn't know why I was getting an interest I guess. If I misplaced something and forgot about it and this shows up, I don't know maybe have a line that states the old bill. I know it says previous balance but you don't know where it came from.

M: How would having that look like?

I would say at the bottom on another line, I'd put interest/admin charge, no one knows what it's for so first I'd put the bill they didn't pay. The last one said it was May 15th, so I'd put 'No payment received before May 15th' so at least they know it was from the previous month. 

* Why do you think that is?  

* What questions do you have about this statement?

Nope

* What do you think these letters could do better?

Hm, I don't know. Is that detachable at the bottom where it says pay by mail? Oh it is. Does an envelope come with this?

M: Do you think it would?

I would hope so.

M: To be honest, I'm not sure
