## Medical copay discovery research

P7

## Warm-up Questions - 5 minutes 

How do you interact with VA healthcare?

I'm in that Community care, so I go through the process of getting \_\_\_ for. I'm far away. I get my prescriptions online. That's how it works with me in the VA  

How do you order prescriptions online?

* I go to My VA Healthvet and refill prescriptions, pretty simple.

Past copayments?

* That's interesting because I don't know if I have it in anymore because my disability went up to 80%.

In the past?

* Oh yea, when I get a prescription, the copay is like $24 or something like that, depending on the drug.
* No complaints on the copayments

How did you receive copays?

* In the mail.

Do you have any other insurance?

* I'm on Medicare.

How does you manage that compared to VA healthcare?

* I let the clinic and hospital work with the VA on it. I don't know how that works.  

Do you receive any communication when using medicare?

* Nope.  

What sort of communications do you receive?

* I get authorizations for like... one year, I qualify for special care... \[11:18\]  

Is there anything you'd change about how VA contacts you?

* Not really  

When you get authorizations, what does that look like?

* I call community care and talk to an individual there, they talk to them about what I need, they go to the VA and take care of it, I guess.  

## Wayfinding 

* I guess I'd wait until I got the next notice.  

Is there some other way you'd prefer to find this information?

* No, mail's good.  

--- share screen ---   

Online, where would you go?

* Best way is through MHV. If that's where I go for my prescriptions, so it would make sense for \[11:20\]  

Why is that the best option for you?

* Because that's the one I'm most comfortable with.  

How would you find that information from here?

* Well I haven't found it, I usually just get something in the mail.
* I go to this page, and I usually just go to Refill my prescriptions, and that's all I ever use this for.  

If you were trying to find information about money owed to the VA, where would you search for that on this site?

* No idea.  

[VA.gov](http://va.gov/)

* Signs in  

What do you normally come to[VA.gov](http://va.gov/) for?

* Get my prescriptions refilled.  

Tell me more

* I go here it says refill and track your prescriptions. I click a box for what I need and they send it to me in about a week.  

Anything else you come here for?

* Not anymore since my claim is done.  

How would you search for money owed?

* I suppose um... \[long pause on blue section\] - I don't know, maybe get their VA medical records, I don't know. You tell me.  

Why would you think it would be there?

* Because it has to do with my health and wellbeing
* Education doesn't apply to me
* Took care of the disability
* So I assume it would be under records  

Would you expect?

* Account or money owed or something that's more compatible to looking for what you need  

What does that look like for you

* Billing or Account or whatever. In records or healthcare, one or the other.  

Let's say you had an appointment at a VA medical center, you want to see charges...

* I'd wait until they send me a letter.  

Imagine you can find it on here...

* Ok. BILLING OR ACCOUNTS INFORMATION.  

So you'd expect that information in the same location as owing money to the VA?

* Yeah. Something like billing is simple. Doesn't have to be complicated.  

---------

What would you call that piece of mail?

* Bill  

What would that mail to include

* Itemized costs for whatever I had done.

Anything else?

* No, just the amount I owe

Tell me more about the itemized list, what does that look like?

* XRAY, blood samples, medication... whatever actions were done.  

## Veteran Patient Statement - First 

* Ok so I still owe? I Thought I took care of that!!  

How familiar are you with this letter?

* Not at all. I see something like this, but it usually just has my drugs listed.  

Tell me more about that - how it looks different.

* Well... I don't know what this other stuff is, here it's just what kind of drug I had, I don't recall seeing a billing reference, it's just the amount. It's similar.  

Any other differences?

* Nope. Nope.  

What are your first impressions of this letter?

* That I owe $242.17
* My new charges are 103, my previous balance is 139, so I better write out a check!  

What would you do with the check

* Put it in an envelope and send it to the VA  

Where do you get that info on how to send the check back

* It should be on the billing!
* Looks up to the methods of payment options  

Where's that address

* Well the one I see is Cheyenne va medical center up above.  

Is that where you'd send the check?

* If it wasn't on the billing, I thought that usually is on the envelope
* Oh mail to department... oh that's where I'd send it.  

What do you think previous balance means

* That I had something I hadn't paid yet  

Payments received

* Apparently I didn't send them any money when I should've sent 139\. So they're sending me a notice that I owe 139 + 103.17\.  

New charges

* Things that have happened since last billing  

Pay by date

* 15th of May  

What will happen if you don't pay by that date?

* Throw me in jail (teasing)
* Well apparently I didn't pay it the last time, so they might send me a nastier mail next time. Saying they'll take away my disability if I don't pay on time.  

Tell me more about the next statement - you said nasty?

* It would be a reminder - hey you haven't paid in 3 months and if you haven't paid soon, we'll take it from your disability check.  

How do you feel about that?

* It's a good reminder.  

What if you needed assistance paying?

* Like if I couldn't pay the bill? IDK I'd never thought about it, so I'd just pay the bill. Either way, they're gonna take it from the disability so I'd just pay the bill.  

What if you didn't receive disability, what would happen?

* That's not a problem for me, so I'm not sure.  

Description - what does it mean

* What care or medication you received 
* Then it says something about interest and administration charges, it all has something to do with healthcare, one way or another.  

How would you interact with the letter?

* IDK, I wouldn't interact with it. I'd write out a check for $242.17 and send it in.  

If you had questions about anything in the description, what would you do 

* If something was inappropriate or wrong, I'd probably call the local VA center where I had the procedure done.  

Where would you find that contact information?

* Well up top, it says local VA's message... call 1866, so I figured that would be a good place to start.  

How do you feel about calling for assistance?

* I feel comfortable.  

What would you do if you got this exact piece of mail

* Write a check, if it was valid  

How would you make sure it's valid?

* Let's see, I would um... look and see yes I had that done, that prescription... if something was amiss, I'd make a call to that outfit.  

What information is most important

* How much I owe and what it's for.  

Talk to me about the other pages

* Just kinda telling you about your copayment, copayment status. General questions I guess. I've never really read all of this.  

If you received a letter like this, how would you use these pages?

* I probably wouldn't.  

Why not?

* I wouldn't think it's necessary if I got proper billing, if I owe it, then I pay it.  

Is there anything on those pages that jumped out as important to you?

* No, not really.  

What questions do you have about this statement?

* None, pretty straightforward to me.  

## Veteran Patient Statement - Second 

What's different?

* They added another 3.20 for interest because I didn't pay  

What do you think of that?

* Fair enough.  

Anything else?

* Nope.
* Maybe I should go get checked for dementia if I didn't pay!  

Questions about statement

* None  

What can these letters do better?

* Nothing. Straightforward and simple.  

Describe in a word or two:

* Sufficient  

Name 

* Billing documents  

Any other thoughts?

* Nope. Damn good job.  

Any questions?

* No
