## Medical Copay Discovery Research 

P8 | April 27, 2021 | 9:30 AM EST

## Warm-up Questions - 5 minutes

* Tell me a little bit about how you currently use VA health care.

Yes, I see my primary care doctor at VA and also the (removed) and I try not to call because it's very difficult to get through on the phone. So I try to use secure messaging and do everything through the website for my refills and meds

M: Which website?

That is the, let's see, My HealtheVet

* Tell me about your past experiences with VA health care copayments.

I get a bill once a month and I go to Pay.gov and pay it. Not last year because they suspended everything. But prior to that

M: Can you tell me more about that suspension?

I usually get a statement in the mail and I'm only on one medication now so it's easy to read and it lists previous payments and current payments I've made. And it gives the option to pay by mail or go on Pay.gov, and I use that. They also sent a link to look at statements online because the mail hasn't been good since COVID

M: Can you tell me about this other website?

That was, let me see, AccessVA. 

M: Whats your experience been like with that?

It's not bad because I'm able to log in with My HealtheVet information which makes it easier. I only check it once a month and they stopped our copayments again so I don't have to. The statements are only available for six months, would be nice it they were available for longer

M: Can you tell me more?

I'm one of those people who likes to go back and look at things, I like to go back for a year

M: Would you do anything with those?

They can stay on AccessVA. I don't need to print them out because I'd just shred them two years later

M: What's that two years cutoff for ya?

Yeah, it's about two years when I start going through everything and think, "I need to get rid of this now"

M: Can you tell me about how you've been interacting since suspension?

Since it was suspended I hadn't got a charge, then at the end of the year I got a bill and paid it. And I saw on VA.gov or somewhere that they were gonna refund the money we sent in \*laughs\* and then suspend it until September of this year. 

M: Has anything happened with that for you?

No, I did pay my copay and they said they'd refund it. I haven't gotten it back, but we all know how the government works. 

M: Anything you would have changed?

I probably wouldn't have sent the payment in if I knew it was going to be suspended again. I don't like paying late fees and things like that so I like paying my bills on time. 

* Do you get statements for VA Health Care?  

* How do you receive them?  

* Do you have any other insurance plans for your health care? (Can prompt private insurance, Medicare/Medicare, TRICARE if they seem unsure)
  * (If yes) Tell me about how you manage your \_\_\_\_ insurance. (Can prompt about viewing statements/explanation of benefits online, etc.)

I do, I have an insurance plan through work. 

M: How do you manage that?

It's not difficult. VA bills my insurance directly and then they either pay or don't or pay whatever's allowed. It's not much on my end to be honest.

M: So can you tell me more about that? 

I go on and see the explanation of benefits, I have blue cross blue shield and the VA is in network. What's nice is I have high deductible insurance through work so anything my insurance doesn't pay, the VA doesn't charge me. It goes towards my deductible so I don't have to pay it. 

* What sort of communications do you receive from the VA?

I get letters in the mail when I have appointments, I mostly get stuff through email if I can. Or secure messaging on My HealtheVet. I prefer that because the postal service is really bad. Usually it's, once in a while a phone call, but I don't really get much to be honest. 

M: Do you think you should be receiving more?

No. Just thinking about it, I don't get statements anymore for the copays that was once a month or once every three months. And then, oh I do get a letter when I get test results as well. 

M: With your past experiences with these monthly medication letters, what is your approach to them?

I pay them right away. 

* What would you change about how the VA contacts you?

I don't think so. I think they do a pretty good job. 

## Interview (Wayfinding) - 20 minutes

* Imagine you received a letter in the mail about owing money to the VA, but you've misplaced it, what would you do?

That's a good question! Would it be owing money for health care?

M: Are there other reasons you'd owe money?

I don't think so, just asking! I'd probably call

M: Who?

The local VA here and try to find out who to speak to about it

M: What if the money wasn't specific to health care?

I'd call the VA or depending who I get the letter from. I guess I say that because when I get the mammograms that's of course community care, it's not done at VA. I've had issues in the past where the digital imaging facility sent me bills because they didn't know who to contact, so I had to do research on my end because they said I owed it

M: What happened?

It was when they were switching from Choice to community care so I called the local VA and spoke with the community care person and they said it needed to go to community care instead of the Choice address they had. 

* Is there some other way you'd prefer to find this information?  

* Next, I'm going to ask you to share your screen so I can follow along with you. There should be a green button at the bottom of your Zoom screen that says "Share Screen" - just click that, select your screen, and hit share.
* (If they haven't mentioned one of the online formats) Let's imagine there's a place online where you can access this information. Tell me what that looks like for you.

Lets see (opens a tab in Safari) Would it be through just VA or health care?

M: let's imagine any money you could owe to the VA

(Opens bookmarks and goes to eauth.va.gov - access VA) This is usually where I owe money so this is what I would do (signs in with My HealtheVet) 

M: Is this where it makes the most sense for you?

Yeah, I'd check here to see if I had a new statement over here. 

M: You did mention you use My HealtheVet for secure messaging, can you tell me more about that?

Yup, I have (removed) so when it's 75 degrees and spring I'll send a secure message and say I'm freezing and then I'll go in and take a test. We do all that through secure messaging

M: Is that all you use My HealtheVet for?

No I go in and look at test results when I have labs, refill prescriptions, I used to track my TSH in a separate spot but now I don't

M: TSH?

Thyroid thing

M: Do you use eBenefits?

I have not used that in a while. 

M: What did you use it for?

I was trying to get a VA loan to refinance my house. I wanted to see if I could get the eligibility letter and it wasn't working - I haven't had a lot of luck with that site. 

M: Go ahead and navigate to My HealtheVet

* MyHealtheVet
  * Talk to me about how you'd find that information

(Navigates and signs in) 

So everything I do - scheduling appointments can be tricky because I don't know if it's a phone or personal appointment. I do prescriptions, messages, labs and test results, all that stuff

M: If there was a way to get to money owed, those statements, from here what would you look for?

That would be great. I would love that. 

M: Tell me why?

It would be a one stop shop instead of having 2-3 different sites. I know if I go to AccessVA I can get to My HealtheVet but I've been using this one since 2014 so I know the username and password. So it would be nice to have everything in one place. 

M: Can you tell me what that would look like?

Hmm. Not sure what you mean

M: So there's no place to click on that would have those statements. If it were to be added, what would it say or look like?

Oh, like "pay my bill" or something. Maybe (hovering over the top nav) I don't know where. 

M: You said a link "pay my bill", what would you see when you click on it?

Kind of like in AccessVA a link of statements where you can click on it and the statement would come up and you could click 'pay'

M: What would 'pay' look like?

Probably what Pay.gov looks like now except maybe less screens to look through. 

M: You said you haven't used 'schedule a VA appointment' because of phone vs in person?

Yeah, I had to call because last time I tried to do it I wasn't able to. I only have 2-3 appointments a year

M: Can you click on that link?

Yeah. This is all the VAs I've ever been to. We'll go to the one that's closer

M: What did you think about all those facilities?

Those are the facilities I've gone to. I still have records there. Oh this is new! (sign in once to access va sites modal) Okay so schedule ('clicks on 'schedule a new appointment' link)

M: Do you have thoughts about not being on My HealtheVet?

No, because it'll take me right back if I want to I think. Yeah, I can click there (My Health) and it'll take me back. It's nice that it's connected. Want me to click on anything here?  

* (If they mention logging in, ask if they'd be comfortable signing in)
* (Redirect to VA.gov afterwards)

* eBenefits
  * Talk to me about how you'd find that information  

* (If they mention logging in, ask if they'd be comfortable signing in)
* (Redirect to VA.gov afterwards)

* VA.gov
  * What do you normally come to VA.gov for?

Uhm, I haven't actually - oh! I get an email newsletter every month or so and they did say the copayments were changing so I came here to look it up to see if there were any changes for me. But other than that I don't come here very often.

M: Why is that?

I guess I don't need to. If I have questions about any other benefits I probably would but I haven't had that in a while. 

M: (Redirects them to the homepage) 

* Talk to me about how you'd find that information

M: (asks about va copayments or money owed)

Hm. I guess I'd expect to see it in here in the health care section (health care hub)

M: What if the money owed wasn't related to health care?

I guess I'd expect to see it somewhere else. I don't get disability, I don't do education benefits anymore. Maybe up here (clicks on 'VA Benefits and Health Care' on the main nav)

M: What are you looking for?

Just looking for other things I can access here. I don't know where I'd expect to see if I owed money for something else. 

M: What sort of link under health care would you expect?

Pay bill. Pay copay, something like that. 

* (If they mention logging in, ask if they'd be comfortable signing in)
* What keywords are you expecting to see?  

* Let's say you had an appointment at your local VA medical center and want to see the charges for your visit. What would you do to find that information?

Uh, they bill my insurance. Otherwise I don't see charges

M: What do you think about that?

I never thought about it until you just said that. The only thing I'd have to pay is copay for medication. 

M: Is that information you'd ever want to look up?

Yeah, I mean I wouldn't mind. I don't know that I would need to. 

* How does this experience compare finding information about money you owe to the VA?  

* Would you expect to find information about money you owe to the VA in one location?

## VPS Activity - 25 min

Alright, I want you to imagine that you are in the following scenario:

* You are a Veteran who went to a VA medical center in February for a routine checkup. In March, you went back to the VA medical center to hav a few routine tests done and you refilled your medication. Today, a couple weeks later, you received a piece of mail detailing your VA healthcare charges.
  * In a word or two, what would you call that piece of mail?

Explanation of benefits

* What do you expect that mail to include?

I guess, what was done. Office visit, this much money, lab test, this much money, prescription, this much money. 

M: Anything else?

Uhm, I don't think so. 

* I'm going to send you a link in the chat. Since you're sharing your screen, there should be a bar at the top, hover over the "More" icon, then open Chat in the dropdown. Go ahead and click that link when you're ready.

\[Send link in chat: [https://preview.uxpin.com/a0f7710002cf5f0d104c63ea77f2c7112f0853f0\#/pages/138400205/simulate/no-panels?mode=i](https://preview.uxpin.com/a0f7710002cf5f0d104c63ea77f2c7112f0853f0#/pages/138400205/simulate/no-panels?mode=i)\]

* This is a fake copay statement. There are 4 pages here, and you can flip between the pages by clicking the little green arrows.
* How familiar are you with this letter from the VA?

Very. These are the ones I used to get. 

M: Used to because of the pause?

Yup But where it says outpatient care visit, I never had that. Never had interest. It was just copay, fill date, and medicine. I've never seen one with the other stuff on it. (Clicks green arrow) Yup, this is the other page with it. It's been a while, oh yeah this page too. 

M: Tell me about the pages 

Oh okay. Well basically this would just explain to the person why you're receiving it, what it is, ya know (page 2). I looked at it the first three times. This one is your bill of rights kind of thing, call to dispute, late charges and whatnot (page 3).

M:  How do you interact with these pages?

I don't, honestly. I guess if I couldn't pay my bill I'd read more. 

M: Can you tell me a little bit about why you think these statements would only include medication refills?

I think my priority group, I don't pay for copays for seeing the doctors. 

M: I thought they were all global. Must be a difference between visits and medication

When I looked up the new copays it says if you visit the doctor it's $35 but if you're in a certain priority group... looking at this one he probably saw a specialist

* What are/were your first impressions of this letter?

It's easy to read, easy to see how much is for what and why

* Can you tell me what you owe, based on this letter?

(Long pause) Oh there it is! A hundred, oh there's a previous balance and new charges. So $242.17

* What do you think "Previous Balance" means?

I think they probably didn't pay the last bill that came 

* What do you think "Payments Received" means?

There's a  payments received? Oh it's zero

M: What do you think that means?

Oh, they didn't pay

* What do you think "New charges" means?

That's everything not included on the last bill. 

* When do you need to pay by?

This is due by, lets see. 5/15

* How much do you need to pay by that date?

You need to pay the full balance of 242.17 or you'll have interest charges by then

* What do you think will happen if you don't pay by that date?

Let's take a look! (clicks green arrow to page 2, then clicks to page 3). Charge is 30 days... he should call and set up a repayment plan if he can't afford to pay. Because he's going to have more late charges. 

* What options do you have to resolve these copay charges?

You can dispute it, set up a repayment plan, request a hardship, or pay it. 

M: What are your options for paying?

Pay by check, pay on Pay.gov. ACH (?) 

* Which would you choose? Why?

Pay.gov. No stamps, probably not allowed to go in right now anyway. Can see it's paid right away. 

M: You can see it's paid right away?

Yeah because I put it on my credit card

M: Thoughts about Pay.gov?

Yes, I like it. It's the easiest way. They send a confirmation email with confirmation that you did pay it. 

* What would you do if you needed assistance paying?

Let's see. (clicks through page 2 and 3). I would... (scrolls down page 3). I would probably do this, the repayment plan. Try to establish a payment plan. 

M: Why would that be your chosen option?

I'm not gonna dispute it unless I lost my job or something. I wouldn't want to try to get out of it. I'm not like some people where I ignore my bills until they go away because it doesn't happen. I don't want late charges, so I'd try to set up a plan. 

M: What would you expect setting up a plan to look like?

I'd expect they'd work with me, $20 or $10 a month. Whatever's affordable. I'd think they'd have options 

M: How would you go about getting that payment plan set up?

I'd submit that agreement they sent down here by clicking on this link (under payment plan). Or if I had questions I'd call the 866 number. 

* Talk to me about the description section.

The copay gives you the medication, how many pills. How many days it's for. The charge. The outpatient care visit. The date. The charge. The interest. 

* What does this mean to you?  

* How would you normally interact with this section of the letter?

I would just verify that the medications listed on there were ones I received. I did have to dispute it one time. I never received one and the mail got real bad in 2020\. One of my medicines didn't come and I had to reorder it. Both were on the bill so I had to call to get it removed

M: Tell me more

I paid before I noticed it so I'm not really worried about it, but they did say they'd take it off and refund me. 

* If you had questions about this, what would you do?

Would call the local VA or 866 number. Call 1-866-393-1846 for assistance with your monthly statement

M: Who do you think would pick up that call?

I don't know, that's a good question

M: Who do you think?

A VA call center

M: What sort of questions would they be able to help you with?

Breakdown of copays, the interest, if you had questions and weren't sure because you thought you paid your previous balance, that sort of stuff

M: If you had a question about the medication, what would you do?

Ask my doctor probably. Send a secure message through My HealtheVet

* What would you do if you received this exact piece of mail?

Would call 866 and find out why I was getting this piece of mail. I've never had copays

* What information is most important for you to know?

How much I owe and when it was due?

* Talk to me about the other pages here \[questions about statement, notice of rights\]

* How would you use these?  

* What information is important for you?  

* What questions do you have about this statement? --

I don't, but I do see it says pay by phone. I've never noticed that before 

* Go ahead and scroll down to the bottom of the letter until you see a blue button that says "Task 2" and click on it.
* So let's say you misplaced the letter from before and forgot to pay the bill. A month later, you receive this letter in the mail.
* Can you tell me what's different about this statement compared to the last one we were looking at?

Everything is, previous balance is there and there's more interest

M: What do you think about that?

If I got this I'd be mad at myself for losing the first letter and not paying

M: Why's that?

I don't like paying things late. I don't like paying interest on things I don't have to. 

M: Anything else about this letter that would be problematic for you?

No 

* Why do you think that is?  

* What questions do you have about this statement?

Nope. It's the same as the last one, just more money. 

* What do you think these letters could do better?

Hm. I like them as-is. I don't feel like I need more information. I think it's pretty good honestly. 

M: Anything that could be improved about the broader copay experience?

Not really. 

## Post-Task Interview - 3 minutes

* If you could describe the documents we looked at today in a word or two, what would you say?

Familiar, easy to read, lot of information

M: lot of information?

These back pages, it's a lot of information. I've never read it until you asked more questions about it. I see all this writing and unless I need to know something about it i'm not going to look at it.

M: What about it repels your attention?

It's just a lot. Look at this! (scrolling up and down) It's a lot, it's small print, I'm old! I don't know... 

M: Anything that could be changed to make it better for you?

If it was larger print for older people it'd be like 73 pages and it'd be too many pages. I'm just lazy, I pay it and keep moving. 

M: If you could name the documents, what would you name them?

My VA Bill \*chuckles\*

* Do you have any other thoughts on what we talked about today?

No, I don't think so. 

* Any questions for me?

I do not.

*
