# P4 

10/12/2023, 9am ET

Notes by Liz Lantz

## Set up
Last logged in last week or the week before
Had to get them to send my medical records to my primary care doctor

## Task 1: Logging in
Had MHV pulled up to log in with
M directed back to VA.gov
*scrolled up and down the homepage, did not initially see the sign in button in the header*
Normally signs in with MHV


M: Do you ever use this?

P: No this is foreign to me at the moment (My VA page)

## Task 2: navigate to hub

M: *gives prompt for updating account information, let’s pretend you need to update personal information…*

P: *On my VA page, starts scrolling down page. Didn’t seem to see Go to Profile link, stops at footer to read links, returns to top of page. Clicks name menu.*
“There’s no update my stuff…oh maybe profile.” *clicks from auth menu*

P: I would assume my information would be in any of these. Oh my. There’s all these boxes of different ways to change stuff.

M: Is that surprising?

P: Yeah.

M: How would you expect to manage contact information?

P: *Clicked contact information*

M: While the page is loading, can you say Why that was surprising to you
It’s just a lot. Usually I feel like it’s all under the same thing, so you have to search through it. [There?] it’s kind of spread out and easy to see.
**Notetaker observation: It seems like the page might be overwhelming to him. Unclear if “spread out and easy to see” comment was related to the profile hub, or if he was talking about other pages he usually sees**

FU: it’s this page. It’s kind of broken down. It has information about what you expect to see in there which is helpful to see.
## Task 3: Locate contact information

## Task 4: Switch to DD

_Used back button to go back to hub, and clicked DD information_ P: Oh I didn’t even see it was right there”

M: I know you haven’t used this website before, what’s your reaction to this content on the page?

P: What do you mean?

M: It’s giving you a message. I don’t know if you get compensation from VA, but what does this message say to you? Does it make sense?”

P: *reading alert* Yeah, it makes sense.

M: Ok. Thanks for that feedback.

P: Yeah..*hesitates*..I don’t know use it so I don’t know. I’m assuming this is what you’d want.

## Task 5: Navigate back to hub

_Used back button to get back to the hub page_

P: Or I could do this *used forward button to get back to DD page, and then clicked personal information from the top of the main menu*
**Notetaker observation: Seems like he thought the top menu item in sub nav would take him to the profile hub**

## Task 6: Click on a deep link / military info

M: Do you have your DD214 in your paperwork at home?

P: Yes

M: How would you go about requesting another copy if you needed it

P: *quickly found Learn how link in military information box* Right here. *Clicked link*

M: I’d love to hear if this makes sense to you

P: *… missed it 9:17 time stamp ..*

M: If you wanted to get back to the profile page with all the boxes, how would you do that?

P: *clicked back button in their browser* 

M: Let’s look at your military information, I have some questions for you there. We’re trying to learn how useful this information is for people. Is there any additional info we could list here for you that would be helpful?

P: Uh, not that I’m aware of. Not for me personally. Maybe other people might need stuff, but me personally, no.

M: Yes, it does seem to vary from person to person.
## Task 7: Locate personal information

M: *gives prompt for new nickname*

P: *hesitates, seems to read side menu prior to clicking back button to go to hub* Personal information maybe? Preferred name, I would assume.

M: Yep, that’s good feedback. 
## Task 8: Find dependents or letters

M: *gives prompt to add dependents*

P: I have absolutely no idea at the moment. *Browses profile hub page*

M: Would you expect to be able to do that on this page?

P: ON my profile? I would assume, since everything else is kinda on here *reading to themselves, scrolling page* I”m not seeing anything on here. It might be just not popping up and it’s right…*pauses*

M: … Would you hope updating dependents would be here as well?

P: Yeah, because it has my disability rating and stuff on here, so I’m assuming I could see that. 

M: I’m going to draw your attention, look under the menu with your name on it

P: *clicks auth menu* Oh, dependents. I would have not found that ever.

M: Why is that?

P: I’m not very computer savvy so I wouldn’t have guessed to click up here

M: … missed it 9:23am

P: *auth menu open* it’s [health link] redundant, it’s literally right there. _mouses over health link behind open auth menu_

M: What are your impressions of this page *dependents page?*

P: It looks pretty simple and straightforward, most of it.

M: Where would you click to add your soon to be spouse?

P: Either there *mouses over action link “add or remove a dependent” or here “mouses over alert”* I’d probably find out how (alert link) to make sure I won’t mess anything up

M: I have another question. *gives prompt for a veteran discount, where’d you find that?*

P: Discount card? Clicks auth menu, then closes it, and goes to search, closes search. *returns to footer* What do you call it again?

M: Proof of service card

P: I guess I would just search for it. *opens search, and closes it, then opens mega menu* Maybe records? *Clicks records in mega menu*

**Notetaker observation: Participant has no idea what a proof of service card is or where to find it**


M: What do you think you would find on a link that just says letters?

P: I have absolutely no idea. 

M: Go ahead and click on that letters link
**Notetaker observation: Participant seems hesitant on how to use this page**

M: I’d love to hear your reaction to what you’re seeing

P: *scrolling down page, reviewing content* Oh. I…*pauses* there’s a bunch of stuff. I guess, can I expand on them? *clicks “expand all button to open accordions* It looks like a bunch of random stuff.

M: Random is an interesting word choice. What makes it random?

P: You have this proof of cards, medication, more medicine stuff, or health care, service letter, something for jobs I guess, my own military stuff

M: missed it

P: I don’t know if there are other places, obviously I’ve never had to use them but this would be the last place

M: Where would be the first place to look for these things?

P: *hesitates* uhh I guess the service card with the other card stuff we just looked at (Veteran ID card page). _notetaker missed section_ medical letters with my doctor stuff, same with this medicine *scrolling and reviewing* yeah the health things should go with health stuff. Service letter, probably with the DD214 and that stuff. Same with this job stuff because most jobs need your DD214. Benefit summary I would assume  that’s up in here *clicks auth menu* maybe even in your profile, because it’s pretty much all about me.

M: So it sounds like you’d expect anything health related with health related things?

P: Yeah

M: But anything with your service history - where would you expect that to be?

P: Probably in my profile, since it’s talking about me.

M: As far as that random list of letters, I know it’s random but are there any letters you’d expect to be there, but aren’t?

P: *scrolling up and down page and reading* Maybe, I don’t know, because it could be under the medical stuff. I have medications and stuff and so I’d want them on there. In case something happens and I died or something and someone needed to know.

## Task 9: EC / NoK

M: Where would you expect to find on this website, your EC and Non Information

P: I would assume in my profile *opens auth menu and clicks profile link*

M: We’re thinking of adding this info here. Where would you expect to see it?

P: Probably under personal and contact information

M: And what about NoK?

P: Probably the same thing

M: If VA.gov had this information here about your EC and NoK, how would you expect them to use that information?

P: _missed it, review video_

## Final questions

_missed beginngin, review video_

P: It’s surprising how some of the stuff is the same over and over. You can see kind of the same stuff, I can’t remember where we were but it had all my military information. I think it was the letters page. 

M: _Thoughts on My VA: _

P: Very empty. Not what I expected at all. Just a bunch of “go to profile” which we were just in. And this has claims, which is pretty much fair. And then health care which is pretty much wrong. _health care section is displaying alert for Cerner users with multiple facilities._ _missed it, review video_ It’s not really _missed it, review video_

Observer: Can you say more about what is wrong with your health care information?

P: It says I’m in southern Oregon, that’s where I went the very first time I went, and I haven’t been there in 10 years and I’ve been going there [to the second link] for years now.

## Liz's key Takeaways
- Primarily used auth menu and back button to navigate
- Totally unfamiliar with My VA
- Found the descriptions on the profile hub page to be useful
- Seemed to understand MHV gate alert on DD page
- Letters was not an intituive label for him in the auth menu, and he was unfamiliar with the items in the letters tool
  - felt letters should be in the parts of the site they're related about e.g. medical related letters with health care, service letters w/ military info in profile
- Cerner alert on My VA was very confusing
