**Notetaker**: Ben B.

## Notes
7.12.18 - 8:30am

Marine core pilot, ground infantry officer, 10 years active duty and 10 years reserve
Currently works for a "small company" in Connecticut

What benefits have you used in the past?
- Its an interesting question, I don't even know what some of the VA benefits are
- Trying to find some of the things in the VA is harder than findings Osama in a lost hole. What are the benefits?

Do you currently use VA benefits?
- That would probably be a no.

Do you plan to apply for VA benefits in the future?
- I don't even know what they are. They keep telling me there are all these great benefits, and I'm like what are they? What do you mean by benefits? Educational benefits, medical benefits?
- I've investigated all these things - life insurance, too expensive, health benefits - easier to find Bin Laden in his lost hole.

Can you tell me more about how its hard to find / know what benefits are?
- I have a 10% medical disability rating for tinitus, I applied years ago, tried to find out what happened to it, they said its in the system but I gave up because it was just too hard to track down.
- I've had several other veterans tell me the same thing, its a circus - it's a circus, the VA just hopes we give up.
- I didn't know it expired in 10 years, that would have been nice to hear. Its on page 87, I didn't get to page 87, I didn't have time. Within 8 minutes they said I had to decide to pay $1200 for educational benefits and I decided to do that but only found out later that it expired, after the fact.

How did you hear about healthcare benefits and disability benefits?
- Through another Veteran

What could the VA have to done to make it easier for you to learn about those benefits
- They could have talked about it when I was getting off active duty. There was zero mention of any benefit from the VA. You wait on hold for 9 hours and they say they'll call you back, they never do.

When did you discharge?
- I got out in '95 off active duty, and completely off end of 2004. There was zero help on what the VA could do both times.

What could the VA do now to make it easier for you to learn about benefits now that you are out of the service?
- Make it simple. I've talked to guys outside of the service now who have a host of health issues, and the VA makes it extremely difficult. If they could say on the website - go to 87 and do this, it would help. After page 5, people are saying I can't find this stuff. Simple, one-pagers with links with more detailed info would be really helpful.
- It would be great if Veterans could talk to someone about this. Everyone's situation is different. The VA just wants them to go away.
- Information is just difficult to find. Its not categorized well, the VA uses different terms. I'm a relatively smart guy, but when they say you need a C&P exam, I don't even know what that is. You're losing a lot of folks out there, its just hard to find things on the VA website. People just give up.

Are you trying to learn about a specific benefit, does it exist or not? For example, you didn't know about ed benefits, were you looking to find more details or specific benefits?
- There was an educational benefit I was trying to find out about. There is a vocational benefit that I met with someone and wasted a TON of time. They told me at the end you don't qualify for this. That would have been nice to know a long time ago.

Did they mention why you didn't qualify?
- They didn't outright disqualify, there was a type of training I wanted them to pay for, they wouldn't pay for that specifically.

### Eligibility
We've talked about how its hard to find out about benefits.. I'm curious before you sent in any of those applications, how did you try to determine whether you were even eligible for those benefits.
- Well, the fact that I can hardly hear. 

Did you do any research to find out what the VA thinks my eligibily is or what the requirements were at all?
- Yeah, just briefly. Found out it had to be service connected. There are hundreds of things you can select, I just picked the top one. - I'm not trying to raise the titanic, I'm like here's my form. They said you got lost, we don't know what to tell you.

Educational benefits
- Did a ton of work on that, they told me they couldn't help me after they told me they could.

Are there other benefits you might have applied for earlier on?
- I've kind of lost faith with the VA. What this insurance benefit? I don't see the benefit when I have to pay more than private insurance. The VA thinks there is a benefit, but if the veteran doesn't think there is a benefit, its not a benefit.
- If someone put a gun to my head and asked me to tell them what the VA benefits are, I would tell them to pull the trigger. I don't know what the benefits are.
- They list things that really aren't benefits, a lot of veterans aren't taking them because they really aren't benefits.

Anything else the VA could do to help regarding benefits? You mentioned expiration date..
- I'm on page 1 and I'm lost already. I don't know what they are talking abuot here. I just want a simple answer for my question. I find it difficult to get answers.

### Explore VA
Have you ever used exploreVA before?
- No

#### Demoing tool
- I kind of like where this is going, its starting to narrow things down.

#### Results page
Do you feel this is helpful or unhelpful?
- Unhelpful

Is it helpful in you understanding what you are eligible for?
- I had to read all this stuff to find out I'm not eligible for. 

If you WERE eligible for all of these things, is it helpful?
- Its ok, but when you dig deeper in these things, you realize you don't want them. Employment has jobs people don't want. Home loans too many fees. 
- It all looks great, you show it to someone in Congress, you think this looks great!

What questions do you have?
- The answers are you got to dig in deeper - employment services you find out what they actually offer, you find out- i can find this in the Y ads. You get into home loans, you find out it doesn't benefit any service member based on the math it costs more.
- I've had some of my former troops that used to work for me ask me about this. We started crunching some of the numbers. I said based on this information, you should go private in your home town because it will cost less and you'll get it faster. They said they would go with VA but it wasn't better for them.

Your questions about something like this, are they more about details or qualification?
- If its on here, I would think I'm eligible.

Do you think this page encompasses everything you are eligible for?
- The should put more on here, because there are a ton of other ones out there and it feels like they are hiding them.
*A link that says find more or something would feel better

Lets pretend you want to take advantage of education benefits, you get these results, you're not ready to apply though, what would you do next?
- I'd click on the links to find out - this school I'm attending, is it a participating school? If not, I might find another school. Knowing what I know now, I'd want to know what the expiration dates are.
- I hate to use you don't know what you don't know, its pretty obvious, but there is a lot of information that is left out. You really have to give someone a checklist - start the aircraft, but if you don't you might cause an engine fire.

It can get frustrating, because the jobs that the VA lists out, the guys don't have much luck with that. They are very low-paying jobs. - I had guys that were really sharp and now one got any jobs from this employment services.


### Vets.gov Mockup
Have you ever used Vets.gov?
- I may have - sometimes you put something in like veterans and it takes you to vets.gov or a link may have taken me to that.

You've signed up for Vets.gov as Kim Washington. Does that make sense?
- I don't want to sign up for Vets.gov if its worthless information.

Can yout ell me what you are looking at?
- It kind of reminds of that last website, 1,2,3,4,5. But is there more? Theres nothing on this page.. Would assume only eligible for these 5 things

What would you guess the reason is why Vets.gov recommended these benfits for you?
- I guess they have some of my information, how long i served, what I signed up for. these are just guesses tho

Do you trust the recommendations?
- Based on my experience, no. Continuing education based on my experience - APPLY NOW! oh, turns out you aren't eligible.
- Apply for life insurance. I don't have a lot of faith in that.
- VSO - i'd never hire someone that didn't come from a recommendation from someone. 

- I'd be just hoping this stuff is accurate if I'm Kim Washington

What additional questions do you have. What would be helpful to know on this page that would make you want to do more.
- Its good that you have this red message here so that they know when it expires
- I don't like APPLY NOW and I'm not interested, because I'd want more information

What would be a more helpful next step than apply now?
- Put something along the lines of some of the details, something like "More Details"
- what people want to know is really simple - for life insurance: how much does it cost.

Is it fair that you don't have questions about eligibility if you see these things on here?
- Probably not, but there are other things that are not listed. A question that pops up is - are there other things? Am I not eligible or are they just not on here?

How likely would you be to apply to one of these benefits in real life?
- I'd click on more info

When would you be ready to apply?
- I'd want to know when the next available appointment is. If its January 18, I need something earlier than that, I might not enroll. Thats something going through my mind. If I could get an appointment soon, I'd be more likely to apply.

Would it be helpful to have a reminder to come back to this if you are interested for later? What kind?
- Ya, probably an email

If you weren't interested in what would you do?
- I'd probably leave it there, its not in the way of anything

What if you saw a benefit you had already used?
- I'd probably click out of it

Do you have a preference between the questionaire and this type of homepage we are looking at here? Why?
- Answer the questions and took me to this page about what I qualify for, this would be fine. Its all on one page. This isn't bad, I just need more information.

