**Notetaker**: Sophia

## RJ: Warm-up Questions (2 minutes)

> Before we start, can you tell me a little bit about yourself? (If stuck, prompt to ask about service experience, where they live, their work)

Joined the Navy out of high school, 4 years, graduated college in San Diego moved to DC, worked for Accenture building financial systems for the health department. Worked on Capitol Hill, then VA in Congressional and Legislative Affairs in VACO. Lives in KS now with his fiancée.

"Kind of enjoying smaller town life after being in DC for so long."

## First Task: Interview about past experience finding benefits/determining eligibility (15 – 20 minutes)

> First, what VA benefits do you currently have or have you used in the past?

* Uses VA healthcare exclusively

* GI Bill

  I feel like I'm missing out on some other benefits...I'm actively using the whole infrastructure as well.

* Was an early adopter of MHV since the early 2000s. Been messaging various doctors since 2003, 2002. I have a doctor here now, I message with him. I had a long relationship with a doctor in DC that I would messag ella the time. I manage allm y rx on MHV. I used the GI Bill when I was in college through 2001. I wasn't really that much online at that point....I used some portal where you can go and get letters printed that show I have a VA pension and there's a letter you can go and get printed that shows how much you get per year, somehow I interacted with DoD. BIERS, or something? I forget the name of the site.

I follow VA on Twitter, pretty closely. I don't use the va website hardly ever, even when I worked at VA, I knew that was really not a good place to go for stuff. I'm probably in the middle of the range, a Veteran who uses the health stuff most of the time.

There's a tech system now for scheduling appointments, finally they came up with that. 

***If they have VA benefits***

> What motivated you to apply for these benefits? Was there a specific event, or different life events, that prompted you to apply?

I knew going into the Navy when I was 17 that I was going to utilize the GI Bill so using that when I got out when I was 22 was the next step. Didn't really have any problems at all, it was pretty seamless...I never intended to really use the health system. Actually the best benefit of all has been the health [laughs] and that's nothing I ever htought of in the 25 yeras since I first joined the Navy, there's been a lot mor eaccess. More veterans have been allowed into the system. WHen I was with Accenture I had my own insurance, I didn't really use the VA other than for a cuple of things. But as they yaers have gone on you start having more problems...it's nice, you don't have to start over. They have your records from day 1. 

So what prompted me? I know the VA has taken a lot of heat, but everybody will tell you once you're in the system, the treatment you get is excellent...knowing there is a high quality of service, once you pass through that barrier. The reputation, I would say.

> How did you learn about these benefits?

Six months before you get out, even back in 1995, they have a transition course. For a week, it's mandatory...actually, it's law now. So they walk you through everything in that course. And I still remember things from that course. You take off your normal duties and you have to go to that course, all five days, and they walk you through everything. I didn't even know there was disability compensation for things you got injured, while you're in service. I wasn't aware they woudl give you a benefit for htat every month for the rest of your life. That's actually been very helpful too. I got rated at 20%, I had a back problem. So I get like $269 a month. When I first started it was 180. Even though it was a litte bit of money, it's been helfpul over the years.

> Did you know about these benefits before entering the Navy?

I knew going in -- I wouldn't have gone [otherwise.] My dad was in the service. I'm a military kid; you hear about it frmo the recruiter and also my dad told me about it. WHen you're around miliatry life growing up, the GI Bill is very important to people and you just hear about it.

>  If anything, what could the VA have done to make it easier to learn that they offered these benefits?

At the time, I didn't think they were missing anything...since then there's been a lot more benefits and a lot more opportunities for Veterans. They had to redesign the whole transition course, in fact I worked on that...they're struggling to keep up wiht all the opportunities that are out there for Veterans. But at the time it was sort of a different mentality. Healthcare, school, dsiability compesation, that's it. I didnt' think at the time anything was missing. 

> Have you tried to pursue new benefits since then?

No I have not, and I would not....it costs us all a lot of money to support the VA. They've given me more than I ever asked for.

> How did you determine whether you were eligible for these benefits?

Um....I knew I was eligible for the GI Bill. The health stuff...it wasn't really for years later. I literally walked into a VA and started asking around. So it was really just walking around and asking questions. It wasn't any one thing...I didn't actually start getting my disability compensation until many years later. and that was a similar type of thing; it was me investigating around, finding out on my own, asking questions making phone calls. It wasn't all integrated back then like it is now.

> Be more specific -- who were you asking, what were you researching?

it was probably 3, 4, years after I got out. I met with an employment counselor at the VA. There's these VA regional officers...and they have employment counselors. I was in college trying to think about options...and I met with an employmnet counselor and he mentioned disability comp. [He didn't fully underastand, so they applied through a third party, Amerian-Legion type group]. So I met with them. I had kept all my medical records -- thank god for htat -- so that was a separate meeting I had. And they walked me throuhg the process. I twasn't until..10 months later, maybe even longer, and I got a decision letter, and they sent me a check, back-dated. So really if I hadn't gone in there talking to an EC I wouldn't have known about disability compensation benefit.

> Was that a similar experience to healthcare, or was that different?

Very similar. Well, similair in that it was me pushing forward and asking quesitons. I knew that I was eligible for stuff relate to my back with the healthare system. But I didn' tknow if I was eligible for [GP stuff]. So I would ask staff at the VA hospital what else, can I come in if I'm sick. It's tricky...the access laws have changed over time. At the time I could only get treated for hwat I was injured on, but as time wen ton Congress changed their minds...as a Veteran you can get treated for anything now. So it was me asking around and the laws changing. 

> When you learned about healthcare, did somene just happen ot mention it? Or did you know it existed or went looking for more?

had a foot injury and somoene suggested that he go to VA; when he pushed back saying he wasn't eligible he was corrected. VA fixed his foot problem; a friend told him. 

That's kind of what started me looking at the VA system...as a backstop in case I got hurt. 

> If anything, what could the VA have done to make it easier to determine whether you were eligible for these benefits?

This was something I proposed on the Hill...this concept of having a coordinator that works for the VA that contacts you every couple of months your first year out of servcice and waks you through and foces you go to through the various processes so you don't get forgotten. And I think the VA is actually doing that...now, wher ethey contact you. They dont' just put it all in the transition course and hope for the bst.

So for me it would have been great if somoene had called me 3 montht sout...instead of me doing it on my own 5 years later. Same with healthcare. There was other stuff I was going to private doctors for when I could have just been going to VA. So if you had a transition champion...that person who just coordinated with you fo rthe first 12 montsh you'reout. Especially now with PTSD being a thing, an dall these Veterans committing suicide. There's a lot more serious stuff they need...there's real stuff out there we need sor tof champions to walk you through, check in with you...force you to do stuff and take advantage of uour benefits. That's one thing that would have been helpful at the time, in hindsight, having a person at the VA. 

> Have there ever been benefits you would have applied for sooner that you didn't apply for because you didn't know about them until later on?

I may have applied for a VA home loan. I also owned a house in 98 just a couple of years after I got out...I might have gone that route. and now I'm actually looking at ...pretty seriously getting another house here in Kansas, getting a VA loan. That might have been something I woul dhave pursued if I knew more about it. 

> is the hard part knowing if you're eligible, or what the benefit is?

I think what holds people back is the thought o fhving to deal with a massive bureacuracy on your won, in the dark with no light. After you just got out of a huge bureaucracy. I understand what these guys are going for... It's very daunting..it's very hard to move through that pipe. If you're on your own especially if you're dealing with physical or mental problems...that's why I really thought they needed to have someone walk them through it....

I think people are just afraid of the bureaucracy, don't know where to start. 

>  In addition to what we've already talked about, are there any other ways in the VA could make it easier to find what benefits they have and which benefits you might be eligible for?

The only thing I can think of is some sort of an online dashboard that would capture your situation and show you things that you're eligible for and when you have to fill things out by, but 20 years ago there wasn't anyone to develop that system. But today, in addition to having a person, someplace you can online and see everything in one place. Your basis situation as a Veteran....one page where you can go to.

One of the problems with the VA is there's just so much stuff gathered it's just impossible to figure it out if you're coming out as a Veteran. 

## Second Task: ExploreVA (10 minutes)

> Have you ever used ExploreVA before?

In a checking it out capacity...but as a user I don't believe I have.

> Do you have any questions about what we just went over? 

(Go to link https://explore.va.gov/benefits-navigator-results/ArQkXHr66wmp)

>  Is this information provided on this page helpful or unhelpful in facilitating your understanding of these benefits? 

Yeah, this is excellent. This is kind fo the thing I was referring to; this is great. It's got the high-level categories; it's lett you know at a high level these are the things you're eligible for. Clearly you have to do some more research and there's some more process to get in, but this is a great one-stop...send its home, imprints on you 'yes, these are the things I can get, these are the things that can help me.' Rather than being so fragmented, from different voices...this is great to have it all like this.

>  (*Follow-up if necessary*) What questions, if any, do you have about these benefits that would be helpful to answer on this page?

I see that the explore buttons...that's really good, I like the design of that, red big button in the middle. If you put too much more in here it'd be too cluttered. I think it's pretty intuitive. If i have questions I'll go to the explore button for that section. I wouldnt' cram anything more in here, if i were you.

> Do you think this list encompasses everything you are eligible for? If you didn' tsee something would you think you weren't eligible for it?

I'm kind of an advanced Veteran...I know there's a lot more that you're eligible for, but that's sort of on a lower skill. At the high level, I dno't see anything missing. You guys even though of memorial benefits; I wouldn't have thought of htat. 

>  Based on the wording on this page, do you think you are being guaranteed any of these benefits should you apply for them? 

No, I don't assume that. It clearly says "the following benefits may be available to you."

> Let's pretend you know that you want to take advantage of education benefits at some point in time, but you're not ready to apply right now. What would you do next?

Next in general, or on this page? I would just go to the explore button...[clicks] I would have bookmarked that page, actually, but then I would just go through here and take a look and go right to post-9/11 GI Bill [clicks and scrolls on new page]....based on my educational goal, I would flip through here looking at flight training, me personally I would have gone to ["higher ed"], now I'd be looking for how do I apply.

> In addition to what we've already talked about, are there any other ways in which this experience could be improved?

[long silence] I was looking for something that triggered apply. Maybe [an apply button] would be nice, and keeping it consistent you'd probably want that same content on the other sections too. I don't know how that would conflict with your explore path. Cause once you start digging in and researching you lose sight of where you...apply. Not a dealbreaker but just an opinion.

> Would that matter if you were going to apply [at another time]

It's important...attention span has gotten shorter and shorter. If you have a button that says 'apply' at least it gets them going. I understand they have 10 and 15 years to do it...but make the VA tell you you're not eligible for something. in the meantime we should be making it as easy as possible for Veterans to apply for anything they're eligible for.

## Third Task: Blue Sky Prototype (15 minutes)

Has used Vets.gov before. Is vaguely familiar. 

>  First, can you tell me what you are looking at here?

This is kind of like that dashboard I was mentioning. This is awesome...should be logged into during the transition course. Life insurance, I forgot about that...we might not have enough staff to handle every Veteran, this is great, getting them plugged into a VSO before they get out, while they're still hot, before life takes over. Preapproved, I like that. This is the best thing you could have, great location, I love how that's phrased. You're saying hey, pre-approved. That would leave an impression on me. Wow, ok, I would need to take a look at this. This is really great design here, I like this. 

> Do you understand how Vets.gov came up with these recommendations for you?

Yes, from the questionnaire. I think any Veteran will know based on their experience, service, time, war zones, they'll understand how this is generated. It's sort of self-explanatory.

> if you hadn't done the questionnaire, would you understand?

Um I think you're trying to say what if they didn't take the survey? Yeah, whether they did or not, i still think they're going to know what this. I don't know how you would do that on the back end, by linking their username somehow to their pre-determined benefits...I don't know how you would do that without them actually doing the survey. I'm in favor of blasting them with more information...make it tempting, make it inviting. I do think that most of the Veterans will understand why this stuff is here.

> Do you trust these recommendations?

Yeah, I do, yeah. I think the VA is great. It gets a lot of heat, definitely has some problems, but there's hundreds of thousands of people who are trying very hard...also I trust the IT folks they've hired, I trust the third-party contracts. I just trust the whole legion of people behind this. That's why I trust it.

> What questions, if any, do you have about these benefits that would be helpful to answer on this page?

I think the design of this is just fine as it is. [Would move some headlines around] I don't have any questions; it's very intuitive about what's going on here. It's very clear to me...and that's just not even really reading the words, I can tell that's what this is just by looking at the design of it...[then proceeds to read keywords off]. Really good descriptors, not too wordy. Excited about the rx transfer from DoD. Yeah, I can't think of anything. I would not mess with this design, keep it the way it is. It's really good.

If I had this when I got out it would have been great. This is really nice.

> What questions, if any, do you have about your eligibility for these benefits?

Me personally, or am I still Kim Washington? Really none, all you have to do is read these sections. It's straightforward. Maybe she's about to get married and get a home...I don't see that here.

> Do you think this list encompasses everything you are eligible for?

Yeah, there's the flip side of that. They might think this is the universe of things they're eligible, if it's not. It seems like the housing piece should be in here. And I would maybe somehow explain...they might not know what a VSO is. Kim Washington might think this is it. I don't know how you get past that without making things feel cluttered. 

> Let's assume you know you want at least one of these benefits — say, healthcare. How likely would you be to immediately apply for healthcare if you saw this recommendation in real life?

Instantly, I would instantly go to it. There's this big enroll button, it's just asking someone to click on that button. I would go there and say yeah, boom.

> Now let's pretend you know that you want to take advantage of education benefits at some point in time, but you're not ready to apply in the near term. 
>
> What would you want to do/expect to happen with this recommendation on your homepage?

Nothing. Because...is she enrolled in school? As long as she's enrolled in school...if you're not enrolled in school and going to school, you're not going to get anything. So nothing.

>  Would you want a reminder to come back to apply later?

Oh, I see what you're getting at. I would not build that [a reminder]. That would be...that's one of those clever triggers that looks good on a white board but in actuality I don't think would play well...all of a sudden six months later, I don't think that email would be valuable. The content itself is valuable. If that person isn't actually going to enroll in school I don't think an email reminder in six months is actually going to...I don't see a benefit versus the complexity of building and maintaining that. I would be against that.

> Now let's consider the opposite — what would you do/expect to happen if there were benefits on this list that you had no interest in receiving? 

Just hit "I'm not interested" I'm assuming that'll just erase this block. That's pretty clear. 

> What would you do/expect to happen if you saw a benefit in this list that you already had?

Probably just click out of it [hovers over the x button]. Very intuitive as well.

>  In addition to what we've already talked about, are there any other ways in which this experience could be improved? 

No...I think it looks pretty good! I like where you guys are going with this. Just don't clutter it up. Please, don't do that.

## Thank-You and Closing - 1 minute

This kind of a dashboard doesn't exist yet. Are you guys going to build it?

As a thank you for your participation, we'd like to offer you a $50 gift either as an Amazon Gift Card or through Paypal. Do you have a preference?

**Paypal at the hotmail one**

