**Notetaker**: Lauren

## Notes

Participant 3 

**M: (Introduction)**

**M: Use of VA benefits? What VA benefits have you used?** 

P3: I have the GI benefits. Well yea. GI Benefits. I retired in 03-04. I don’t have all of the transfer of education value. I have the medical benefits w 30% disability. 

**M: I’m hearing you say: healthcare, disability, related GI benefits**

P3: Correct

**M: What prompted you to apply?**

Just realizing that they were out there as a benefit for veterans and especially retirees

**M: Did you apply all at once, or one at a time?**

The medical benefits were applied for immediately during retirement process. The education ones were not put to use immediately after retiring, but were used subsequently. 

**M: And disability?** 

The disability were used immediately as well and then they were reviewed 5 years ago or 8 years ago, and they were changed. 

**M: Could you clarify the process that you went through to apply for benefits during retirement?** 

I went through application process. I have Tricare as a result of being a retiree. I got the Tricare benefits immediately upon retirement with minimal paperwork. The VA health benefits I applied for subsequent to retirement. 

**M: I get it now. I’m curious how you learned about all these benefits.** 

The health care was really a recommendation by a cousin of mine who was a retiree as well who recommended to get established in VA's health system as an additional method of health care support. On education side that was during the retirement transition briefings we received we heard about that. The disability was during the retirement transition briefings.

**M: How could VA make it easier to learn about benefits?** 

From the VA side it was well covered during the transition. It’s just a matter of acting on it. As far as being made aware of it, it was sufficient. 

**M: Tell me more about acting on it. How could they have made it easier?** 

Like I said I’m not really sure I didn’t see immediate areas for improvement. I retired 15 years ago. Maybe if anything reiterating from a retiree perspective, encourage people to take advantage of VA in addition to Tricare. 

**M: How did you determine if you were eligible for benefits?**

Haha – well honestly it was just sort of general knowledge, common sense. As a veteran, there’s general knowledge about health or education benefits. I can’t point to a specific point when I found about it there’s just common knowledge that veterans are entitled to certain benefits and then availing myself of them. 

**M: I’m wondering how you specifically determined your eligibility. Were there any questions about eligibility?**

No there’s no doubt about it. That I would be eligible for all of those. The only question would have been on the disability side was what level of disability would be considered but as far as being eligible, there was no doubt about that. 

**M: What made you sure?** 

20y in the military you get a pretty good idea of what your post-retirement benefits are

**M: I guess for 20 years, you get more exposure!**

It’d be different if you were talking to a 20 year old who went thru boot camp and got medically discharged, but I’m not 

**M: Were there any benefits that you would have applied for sooner but weren’t aware of them?** 

I guess If I was going to put anything It would be health benefits. I knew they were there, I didn’t see the usefulness of them. As I get older, it’s like there’s no reason not to. As I get older, I figured I would rather be in the system than have to apply later.

**M: <Summarized comment>**
  
That’s a good way to summarize it. 

**M: How could VA make it easier for Veterans to find out what they have and what they might be eligible for?**

Ehh… it might be useful if there was an application that you just go in and you have the ability to select your different conditions under which you served, and it researches all that in the background and gives you a list of all the benefits you’re eligible for. Were you in the burn pits or Desert storm, this or there? Give you a list of benefits with a url of where to go? 

**M: Have you heard of explore.va.gov?**

I’ve heard of it. But I haven’t used it. 

**M: it’s a perfect segue. [Explains exploreva.] We’re not going to go through whole experience for sake of time. If we were answering it for you, this is the questionnaire – pretend these are your results. Any questions about that?**

No that’s all right. 

**M: [handover mouse control.] Now that you have mouse control, scroll through this page, … Is this information helpful or unhelpful in facilitating understanding of these benefits?** 

I guess I have used the VA home loan benefits. I think those items would be very useful. 

**M: why do you think this info is useful? What info on this page useful?**

Why is it useful – because – it appears to be a good wrap-up of the services available through VA

**M: what questions do you have?**

With a quick scan of it, um, it appears to do a good job of laying it out. Nothing comes to mind immediately. When we finish here I’m going to spend more time on this site. 

**M: question about eligibility.** 

It appears that the conditions that are set in the early part of the site, would take care of all the resources. 

**M: ?? what do you mean?**

By completing the active duty retirees, # of years served, conditions served – it leads to a good summary of benefits avail to you which is this page. 

**M: would you think this list encompasses everything you’re eligible for?**

I would like to think that it does. Without being a VA expert and knowing every bit and piece that makes you eligible and ineligible for stuff. It would be difficult to answer that question. Looking at the education and training, there’s a lot more detail for that stuff, especially when it comes to transferring benefits to dependents. There’s an extensive amount of info behind that. This is an extensive review of benefits you’re eligible for. As far as the details, it looks like it would take you to the right place. 

**M: are you guaranteed these benefits if you apply?**

No b/c everything it is it says up to – it has all the right alibi words. Search for. Apply. Nowhere does it say you’re guaranteed anything you have to meet all the conditions. No, I would not say that it says you are guaranteed anything. This is just what you‘re eligible for. 

**M: You are interested in taking advantage of this but not right now. What would you do with these?**

At the very least I would bookmark the page and put it in my calendar to come back and look at it when I’m ready to come back to apply for it. The other thing would be to figure out what documentation and actions I can take now to apply so I am out ahead there. Maybe doing research to figure out which programs I can apply for or what programs I am or am not eligible for. 

**M: are there ways that this exp / info on this page could be improved?**

…. Pause. Potentially consider presenting the information in bullet form instead of just paragraph form. It’s a lot easier to – instead of reading a paragraph to be able to see what the paragraph is saying – for employment center. All veterans can visit VA’s employment center. What can you do there. Create resume. Post it. Access tools. That all can be broken into 4-5 bullets instead of a lot of extra words. 

**M: I want to show you 1 more page. We are looking at potential future design on vets.gov. we’re looking at a design. Have you used vets.gov before?**

No. I haven’t. What was that site we were on before? I want to go back and look at it? 

**M: Explore.va.gov. Now what we are looking at is a design created to improve vets.gov going forward. Today we’re going to imagine we’ve signed into vets.gov for the first time and we are Kim Washington. She is taken to this screen. This is the first thing she sees on this account. First scan through this page. What are you looking at?**

Before I even do anything – where there’s a lot of info on this page that obviously Kim just logged onto it, where did all this info come from? Clearly Kim must have filled something out? 

**M: I’d like to ask you that question. Where do you think the info came from?**

I’m ASSUMING it came from DOD records or previous VA records. Those are the only 2 places it could have come from. Kim logged in, and she must have logged in with her SSN, once she filled out then she would come here. 

**M: Let’s assume that this is 100% Kim Washington**

That’s what I was looking for. She is preapproved. She has some prescriptions. You’re preapproved for that. Apply for life insurance. Now I get what you’re looking for. VSO. My thoughts on this vs the previous page you’re looking at? 

**M: What are your thoughts?**

It tells me I’m approved for health care, insurance, find a VSO. Part of the comparison is, perhaps kim is not eligible for the memorial aspect of it. This is telling HER what she’s eligible for.

**M: Do you trust these recommendations?**

Yeah I mean by default I would yeah. Uh. What can you skeptically trust? 

**M: Why skeptically trust?**

The bureaucracy. And systems. Conversion from paper to uh a higher tech side of it. There’s always an extenuating circumstance. You don’t have any other choice but to trust it. A healthy skepticism would accompany it as well though.

**M: Do you trust these results more/less/equal to explore va**

I have no way of comparing that. I guess – I see where you’re going with that. Umm I’m going to say probably, explore.va – I’m the one putting in the conditions, am I going to trust that over what’s been put in via the system. That’s a good question. There are benefits to both. I’m going to trust myself to put in the conditions and let the system – back to the system, and let the system tell me what I’m eligible for. One thing you could do here – a “please confirm” page. You spent 20 years 30 days in the military, if there’s a toggle switch, if there’s something in your file that should not be there or something missing that should be there – a confirmation page that shows everything pulled from your DOD and VA records so you confirm it’s all there. 

**M: You would trust this more if you could see how this info was determined?** 

And even if you don’t do toggle switches. Maybe it’s just a “why am i eliglbile for this? Why am I eligible for continuing education” or “Why am I not eligible/” so I could say I’ve been in 20 months, but I would need to be in 24 to be eligible. 

**M: What questions do you have about this page?**

A couple of things I like – learn more about VA healthcare, learn more about service conditions, comparing GI benefits, that would allow in my case to look back at transfer of benefits to spouse, dependents to do a bit of researching there, and I like how this is laid out.

**M: what questions do you have about eligibility? You mentioned skepticism about how they were selected, …**

No I think that pretty much covers it. 

**M: If you wanted to apply for one of these benefits – let’s say life insurance – how likely would you be to apply if you saw this in real life?**

Minimal. Part of the reason is that if there was a – like the compare education – I just need more info about it. What is it? You know. It needs a bit more detail, especially for that one. Like there was above, on the education and the health care benefits. If it has the “learn more about the life insurance”? I want to know what’s the rate going to be? I have a buddy down the street that is going to sell me the same thing for $10 less. That could be a big difference for some people. 

**M: If you wanted to apply for something 6 months to 1 year from now. What would you do next?**

Um I am just looking to see. I’m wondering if you would lead me down that path that says remind me in 6 months. I’d put something on my calendar to remind me. 

**M: A reminder would be helpful?**

It could be – “do you want to set a reminder?” 

**M: What if it’s something not interested in. you have private insurance… something you never will be interested in.**

It is tough to say never will be. I don’t know that I wouldn’t do anything. I would want conditions changed, circumstances changed. Life is never constant. I could never say I wouldn’t be interested in disability benefits. I wouldn’t want it to be hidden or removed. Just maybe moved to the bottom of the page. Leave it there. You’ve got a child or grandchild – and you want to remind them that you’re eligible for this or that. 

**M: what would you do if you saw something you already had. (e.g. healthcare)**

I’m probably going to do some research on it and be sure that nothing has changed. That I am still receiving the benefit that I’m entitled to. You know if you 15 years ago, said the GI benefit is set and I’m not going to use it again, you could be missing out on a lot of education benefits. I would just check that I’ve got everything I’m entitled to. 

**M: How could this experience be improved?**

What is a VSO? People might not know what a VSO is. I. don’t see anything. There’s a crisis line a helpdesk. Maybe an option for a live chat. 

**M: any other questions?**

Nope. 

Amazon - $50 – same email. 


