**Notetaker**: Sophia

# Lonny: Benefits Recommendations Discovery

## Warm-up Questions (2 minutes)

> Before we start, can you tell me a little bit about yourself? (If stuck, prompt to ask about service experience, where they live, their work)

I'm retired Army. I spent almost 28 and a half years in; I went back and forth on active duty a few times. Three different chiefs of staff for the Army, 2004 - 2009. I'm 80% disabled and I'm totally retired and travel about 10 months out of the year.

## First Task: Interview about past experience finding benefits/determining eligibility (15 – 20 minutes)

>  First, what VA benefits do you currently have or have you used in the past?

Just the disability and the medical. By the time I finally got benefits I was close to retiring the second time, and the voc rehab didn't make any sense to me because I was a couple of years from retiring and to me would have been a waste of money.

***If they have VA benefits***

> (*if more than one benefit*) What was the first one that you applied for? Did you go through the application process for these all at once, or consecutively? Or, were some of these benefits you applied for months or years after [their first benefit]?

I applied for disability when I first retired at the end of 91 but was denied a couple of times. Kind of irritated me because the Army had said that I had problems and the VA denied it so I basically told them what they could do with it. About 14 years later a good friend of mine was our county VA officer and he told me I was going to come in and reapply; he'd been talking to my wife. So we did, and the first VA doctor I saw was a retired VA fligth surgeon and he looked at me like, you mean they've never looked at you? ...this was back when the VA was not a consumer-friendly organization, so.

> When did you apply for healthcare?

Not until 2005, when I reapplied for benefits.

> What motivated you to apply for these benefits? Was there a specific event, or different life events, that prompted you to apply?

Well I knew my issues were getting worse, and it was causing a lot of problems within my...immediate family, and like I say the county VA officer told me I was going to reapply and get something going. He took me over and got me in to see a VA doctor who then referred me upstais to the mental hygiene and started everything from there. 

> How did you learn about these benefits?

We didn't have a lot of good briefings back in the 70s 80s and 90s from the VA, in fact when we were getting ready to retire, you filled out a questionnaire and VA never even did a physical. They never even offered to look at me or anything; I requested it. And it's one of those where if the Army wanted you to see us, they would have told us something about it.

I was part of the retiree org here and we would have info fairs every year and all the bases aorund CO springs would have them...sometimes they would put out good information and sometimes it was the same old BS. but thorugh the county [officer] I became good friends with him and he started educating me on things.

> If anything, what could the VA have done to make it easier to learn that they offered these benefits?

Well I think now they're giving good briefings and they actually have VA...like at Ft Carson they have a doctor that sees folks before they leave the military and gives [them] their VA physical. That didn't happen ack in my day. They also have [briefings and seminars]...we didn't have that unitless ther was a non=profit...or sometobdy to give a class to your NCOs....so they've come a long way trying to educate people....and catch discrepancies....and now they actually talk to ecah other the DoD and VA...so now if someone have a disability when they leave the service the VA knows about it. That didn't happen in my day.

The VA employs more Veterans now than they did. And I think that was a big problem back then. you have folks who have been in a civil service system for year, and although they said they took care of Veterans they acted like every penny that came out of those benefits was coming out of their own pocket. We used to joke in the Army that the supply sgt used to [feel like money was coming out of his pocket]...and [VA] was acting the same way....being co-chairman of the retirement council I used to stress to people to go back to hte VA. As I got reinstated...I would tell them they needed to go back. I was already hearing stories about how...I'm calling it consumer-friendly because tiw as easier for people to go back and see them and not have to wait months for a physical or to get looked at. My appeal took 21 months and they closed it out without telling me. When I finally raised enough cane with the supervisors...I just happened to bring it to one of the undersecretaries of the VA's attention when I was [chief of staff for the retiree council]...I never got a letter, never got anything. I'd call in and it'd be still under review, still under review...so I kind of started some issues there, and that's when they called me back and said oh, we need to see you. Yeah, you do, you know.

You're never going to get perfection in an imperfect world. What upsets me too is when I go [to the hospital] or when I'm talking to Veterans dn find out that another Veteran...that's working there has jacked around a Vetreran. If you're rude to them, I understand...so I try to tell people to maintain composure. If anyone would fly off the handle it'd be me as a retired CSM.

When i retired I was known for my flowery four-letter language. I had GOs saying 'we never want you to have to chew us out, because that's not a good thing.' I try to tell epople to be nice. I understand they get edgy, but when I see them jerking another Veteran around it irritates me to no end. And I'll havea discussion with them. If they want to get mouthy with me I'll go to their supervisor.

> How did you determine whether you were eligible for these benefits?

No I didn't know if I was eligible or not. They told me to fill out everything that I inew was wrong with me. I knew I'd had a hearing profiel and I'd gone down hard a fwe times in Vietnam and run around tracking artillery shells...I knew i had back problems and my knees were starting to kill me. I didn't figure I had PTSD until someone told me I was the textbook case for PTSD. Through my whole career I thought it was stress of the job and people getting under my skin....there wasn't really websites or anything and they didnt' do briefings. If you knew somebody who could help you that might be a plus. But even people they had who volunteered, we had one person on payroll...but he didn't do any briefings. He'd tell you [to fill out the form] and hand it back ot him.

If you had a series of profiles...being in a leadership position, I faked a hearing test until they caught me and then I had a hearing profile. That's my bad. People either rode the profile list and didn't do their jobs for several years or they led by example and suffered later.

I try to go through [the websites]...[was in on the research for a new MHV]...unfortunately not all the older generation is on the web. You still have to have some printed material and somebody who could explain it to the, but even then I try to get people to go in or go into one of the VSOs who work with the VA. Here in El Paso County we're one of the few counties that funds a VSO and their staff...to try to take care of the Veterans. 

> What do you remember about online experiences for learning about benefits?

The newer generation, they grew up with a computer in their crib. I think they had a smartphone by the time they were six months old. But for the older generation the simpler the website...you can have too many tabs there, and they get stressed and don't know where to go. We're getting smaller and smalle rand there's still a lot of baby boomers...not all of us are computer literate. It's the old KISS method -- keep it simple stupid -- ...make it very simple for them to go in and get on it. not all of them thave the patience or know-how or want to try...because they just want to stay away from it.

> In addition to what we've already talked about, are there any other ways in the VA could make it easier to find what benefits they have and which benefits you might be eligible for?

A lot of your folks in the Denver offie in the clinic and everything...we just had a retiree council meeting...and they took everyone on a tour and explained everything. If you work with orgs that have senior Veterans...I know folks right now sitting at home being taken care of by a spouse or family member or in a senior home that deserve benefits and don't have them because they tried before and were told 2 or 3 times "no"...and they're mad and they're not going to do it. It's man power and it takes a budget...but there are ways to get out and talk to folks. The younger ones do it. The mobile outreach van...I think looking at the organizations that cater to some of the older folks...and going to some of the larger nursing homes that have those folks in them. You guys have the capability in knowing who's there and who's not.

## Second Task: ExploreVA (10 minutes)

Alright, next we're going to look at a site called ExploreVA. (**Link**: https://explore.va.gov) I'm going to share my screen with you and bring it up on my computer.

> Have you ever used ExploreVA before?

No, I haven't.

> Is this information provided on this page helpful or unhelpful in facilitating your understanding of these benefits? 

Oh, it's helpful. Well instead of trying to group it together it breaks it down in different segments of what it's going to do for you. You can go to the part that you're interested in or think is going to benefit the most.

> (*Follow-up if necessary*) What questions, if any, do you have about these benefits that would be helpful to answer on this page?

Not really any because I haven't gone to the explore page, but I think that will probably open up and explain everything in detail. The page is pretty self-explanatory.

> What questions, if any, do you have about your eligibility for these benefits?

Part of them are automatic, the education and everything else. So I think there would be no questions on the things on this page.

[Education] is one of those things you had to participate in things to be eligible, so you know if you did them that you're eligible...the healthcare a lot know that if they got the Purple Heart or got wounded...that hte VA is typically going to take care of it. So I think everything is pretty self-explanatory.

> Do you think this list encompasses everything you are eligible for?

Yeah, I would think. Employment, healthcare, or assistance, the GI Bill, ....memorial service, employment service is probably something that a lot of Vets back in my day there wasn't a lot of help. That's something that the newer ones I would hope they're being told about.

> Based on the wording on this page, do you think you are being guaranteed any of these benefits should you apply for them? 

I don't see the word "guarantee" anywhere, but you would assume (of course you know what that spells) that it's going to apply for you if you fell in that particular category on the questionnaire you filled out.

> Let's pretend you know that you want to take advantage of education benefits at some point in time, but you're not ready to apply right now. What would you do next?

[long silence] Can I go to the explore page? [clicks on edu & training]. [more long silence as he reads; S reminds him of the question with a more detailed prompt] Frequently asked questions would be one place you can go and hopefully somebody asked that question. The [benefit-determination chart] could be helpful.

It doesn't appear you have to do anything [else]. [Would leave the page and come back]

> In addition to what we've already talked about, are there any other ways in which this experience could be improved?

No I think it's pretty...I think it's about as KISS as you can get it. It's simple and to the point, it explains everything and broken it down by different sections so you can look it up. Each section has basic information and places to go beyond that or who to contact....

## Third Task: Blue Sky Prototype (15 minutes)

> First, can you tell me what you are looking at here?

It seems pretty clear, says you're approved for VA healthcare, learn more about it enroll or I'm not interested...why would you apply for it if you're not interested in it, but. I think it's all pretty clear, self-explanatory.

This is just a basic page. It says he's been pre-approved so he needs to enroll in VA healthcare, if he wants to apply for disability he need sto apply for that, life insurance if he wants to get it. Find a VSO which is a good thing to do, to have somebody that's used to working with it, to be a go-between. No, I think it's pretty clear. Taking a little bit of time to do the application, but you know. Let's say he applies for medical, does his basic information automatically roll over to the next application, whenever he's going to apply for education or whatever, or does he have to start from scratch...?

>  Do you understand how Vets.gov came up with these recommendations for you?

I would assume it's based on the information that was transferred through DoD through the VA.

>  Do you trust these recommendations?

Uh, yeah.

Well, I say yes based on what I've learned about the last let's say six to 8 years, how much interaction goes on between the two and everything. I think that DoD is trying to transfer as much information about the individual...their health status and the problems they've had, if they've had medical problems or whatever it is. So I would say for the most part I would trust it.

> Were you to receive these recommendations in real life, do you think these recommendations are more or less accurate than the ones you received from the questionnaire on ExploreVA, or do you think they would be equally as accurate?

> What questions, if any, do you have about these benefits that would be helpful to answer on this page?

[very long silence] In your 'continue your education', I take it you're assuming they already know which GI Bill they come under? [A: they may or may not] The only...when it says compare bill benefits, if they're slick enough to click on that they should be able to see...that they would be eligible. So I think they would probably answer the questions.

> What questions, if any, do you have about your eligibility for these benefits?

Really none, because at the very top it says 'based on your service record.'

>  Do you think this list encompasses everything you are eligible for?

Um, I would take it that it it should encompass all the major things that you're eligible for but there may be some other smaller subcategories...or smaller benefits that somebody could be eligible for that not everybody would be able to get, if I'm making myself clear.

> Let's assume you know you want at least one of these benefits — say, healthcare. How likely would you be to immediately apply for healthcare if you saw this recommendation in real life?

Uh, depending on whether you had other life insurance in force I would say. A lot of the servicemembers are getting life insurance along with their SGLI so if they've taken precautions or the precaution to get other life insuarnce before they leave the service then they can look at VGLI I would say if you're in really bad health the advice would have been to apply for it right away, but if you're in decent health, to compare. (He might apply for it depending on what he has now.)

> Now let's pretend you know that you want to take advantage of education benefits at some point in time, but you're not ready to apply in the near term. 

I would hit the compare bill benefits because hopefully in that comparison it would explain the different benefits [each program has] or the time that you have to use if or if you can pass it down to a spouse or child or whatever. 

> What would you want to do/expect to happen with this recommendation on your homepage?

> Would you want a reminder to come back to apply later?

No I think it would be helpful for somene to remind them...at a certain mark they say hey, remember you only have [x amount of time] to apply or use your GI Bill or transfer it to a dependent or whatever.

> Now let's consider the opposite — what would you do/expect to happen if there were benefits on this list that you had no interest in receiving? 

Personally even if I had good civilian healthcare I would apply for VA healthcare and be seen once a year to 18 months because they want you to. In today's world you can never depend on having the healthcare you have today tomorrow or next month unless it is with the VA or like me, retired military and have TriCare. All these others can change. 

[Now let's assume life insurance instead] Probably click "I'm not interested."

> What would you do/expect to happen if you saw a benefit in this list that you already had?

I don't know, there's no place to I guess maybe it would be helpful if you ahd another little place on there that said 'already enrolled' or 'already received.'

> In addition to what we've already talked about, are there any other ways in which this experience could be improved? 

No, I think it's, again, it's complete, it's to the point, and by clicking on the additional tabs without making the page too busy it will go to explain what you need to know.

## Thank-You and Closing - 1 minute

"I think this the work you all have done on this is good, this would be a good website to use. For a young or an old person! [laugh]"

> As a thank you for your participation, we'd like to offer you a $50 gift either as an Amazon Gift Card or through Paypal. Do you have a preference? 

Amazon gift card is fine. Same email as appointment confirmation.
