**Notetaker**: Liz H.

## Notes


**What VA benefits have you used?**

VA health for the last 3 years, everything except urgent care

Now using VA ed benefits
* Wife used half of it for her advanced degree
* He just started taking clasese

Hasn't used cemetery benefits, but has visited the site

Does use disability benefits


**Did you apply around the same time? or at different times?**

For disability, his sister-in-law works for MOA (?). She toldhim to apply before retiring from military. He completed the claim before he retired. Hasn't needed to look at it [the claim] since.

For health, didn't do it until he moved to California. His dad is alive because of VA health and he [dad] had great experience. He [participant] has been using VA health since may 15 and has had good experiences.

For education, wife started using his in 2009 (through 2013/2014). She used about 1/2 of it. He just started taking classes. At first he transferred all his benefits to his wife b/c he didn't think he'd use it.
* Process to get those ed benefits back was difficult. You start at VA then go somewhere else [missed it] to complete the process. You don't get validation or gratification that the things you put in are actually happening.

He communicates with his doctor through secure messaging more often than calling on the phone.

He does a lot of his dad's oversight. He logs in as dad on MHV - looks at appointments, records, etc.


**What motivated you to apply?**

For disability, when he was retiring from military, he got good advice from someone else. "ok i'll get rated."

For health - moving to CA, he had choices like tricare. But there is a VA clinic not far from him. He'd read about the VA problems and wanted to find out for myself. Tried it out and it's been great.

For ed, thought wife would have used all his benefits. Didn't have plans to use it, but recently decided to take some classes to see if he wants to go back and get tech degree.

**How did you learn about the benefits?**

Pretty sure when going through transition, there's a class on VA disability.

For health, knew because dad uses VA health system. He's been a fan from a distance. When moved to CA he wanted to try it.

For ed, always knew it was there. Way back when it was veep (?) and Montgomery GI. Never expected to use it, but here I am.


**What VA could do to make it easier to learn about the benefits?**

For disability, pretty well advertised through transition courses. They tell you get Tricare for life. No one really talks to you about using the VA med system. Not sure they get the word out if you didn't retire from military (if you were short term).


For ed, pretty well advertised. See it all around. Only screwup was not getting certified - my mistake. Experience so far it works pretty good. The accounting system for the benefit is bizarre but that's the convention.


**How did you determine you were eligible for these benefits?**

For disability, being told (by friend) you need to go get rated. And where i could convenient do that.

For health, wasn't sure. Just showed up at the door and wanted to look into it. Got his ID, care, and all set.

For ed, I worked for Camp Pendleton and went to the base education office, and they helped me. If I didn't have that, the local college he's taking classes at has a vet office to help.


**How could VA make it easier to determine if you're eligible?**

What's not clear - way the ed benefit is done. 1st the casual person who comes in doesn't know what months of benefit are. They're on semester or quarter, so months of benefit is not intuitive. A month of benefit means I can take a 2 credit class or 12 credits. It doesn't matter how many classes or credits. Just by month. Doesn't map to how college does it. Doesn't make sense to the average person.

Whether you take small or big load, the month is the same. I'm taking a class, what if the class starts in beginning or end of month, how does that affect the accounting?

Ed benefits are confusing - less prob with learning about them, more the management of them. Processes are still 1980s - send letters/form in mail, receive something in the mail. Can only go on to see what your benefit is. Maybe it's up to date? But still antiquated.

Then there's a disconnect between VA GI benefit and the dependent databases - don't seem to be talking to each other in real time.


**What are some ways in which VA could improve how to find out what benefits are and which you're eligible for?**

Pretty well versed because did research. Can become overwhelmed because VA does so many things. Once you can get someone to talk it through it, it goes pretty well. Proces does takes a long time.

**Looking at screen**

I can see health and other benefits.

Right now go to website for ed, health, etc. Looks like you're trying to put it all together - one site for me. A great step.

You might be interested in this. Pretty simple. Yes or no.

If I don't understand, I can click and learn about it. Yeah i like it.


**How do you think vets.gov came up with these recommendations?**

Good question. Google sucked up all my info and gives me targeted ads. This implies I clicked some boxes on some site, or you've seen my traffic before, and you know me.


**Would you trust these recommendations?**

Um I don't how to judge that. These are tailored for someone else. If they showed for me, not sure what it would show. Whether or not it fits m interest it would depend.


**If they did apply to you, would you trust them?**

Would look at the website and make sure it's a .gov. Would be suspicious of .com

Those recommendations are fairly generic. They're just giving me generic stuff (not tailored). If it comes from a understanding his traffic, would trust they're tailored. Otherwise they seem generic.

Depends on the individual if this is the right info on the screen for you.


**What questions if any on this page?**

You've been pre approved. Interested in health. Can move Rx. If he clicks, it will be user friendly (based on how this looks). Maybe a title goes away if I'm not interested. Or i could get more info and enroll. Pretty simple. Yes, no, or tell me more.


**Do you have any questions about whether or not you're eligible for these benefits?**

If I'm not already enrolled, I could click on enroll and take me the info to enroll.


**Any specifc questions?**

I think what you have here - are you interested and do you want to learn more. If you give too much info, I would focus on that and wouldn't see any of the other items.


**If you saw this list again IRL, does it include everything you think you're eligible for?**

I want to learn more about that because you already know a little bit about me (from DOD).

For disability, you've already got this, so we'll save your time in filing out forms. Would do it.


**Are there other benefits not shown here?**

If i knew nothing about the VA, I would assume this is everything.


**Assume you want life insurance, how likely would you be to apply immediately?**

If I didn't know better. Vgli is not as a good a deal. If I didn't know that, I'd probably apply now. The smart consumer would do some comparisons. But if I didn't know, I would apply now.


**For ed benefits, what would you do from here?**

Would hit I'm not interested. Only 2 choices. No "come back in 2 years". In 2 years I'll go find it.


**Would it be helpful to receive a reminder?**

Yeah I think if I'm not interested right now, I'd like a reminder. Put in a period of time, yeah good idea.

For benefits he's not interested in, would click "not interested" and never see it again. I'll never be interested and never be bothered.

audible books (?) example - went in to cancel subscription. had 3 choices: we can
1. put subscription on every other month
2. suspend for 30 60 90 days
3. or disenroll you forever

That made me think about it. I suspended for 90 days and will go back to try it again later.


**What if benefit you already had, what would you do here?**
If I already had the benefit, would click X and it goes away. Or "not interested." Maybe changes to seeing the status of my benefit.

Would love to have a page like this with all my stuff and their statuses. Would be awesome.


**Any other ways to improve?**

This is a great step forward. VA has so many things. From a user perspective, one thing, getting to a single platform with single sign on, where I could see all my stuff, that would be awesome.

