January 27, 2021 | 12pm EST

**Conversation Guide for Search & Discovery**

-   I have started recording. I'd like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record my screen and audio as we talk today?" Yes

**Warmup**

-   To get us started can you tell me briefly about your service history? 
I joined the Air Force in 2005, deployed to Iraq in 2007. Did a tour of 6 months then and then I was Air Force Reserves. I was honorably discharged in 2010 I want to say. Then I didn't reach out or need services until 6 months ago. That's when I reached out and went on the website and found resources that I could use.
-   Are you currently receiving benefits from the VA? Yes, recently. I applied and got 50% disability for PTSD and then a few of the other things there isn't enough evidence so I need to figure out what I need for that.

**Past Experience**

-   **What's been your overall experience in looking for veteran-related information?**
It’s overall pretty good, some of the information is a bit confusing. I originally applied for healthcare because that was what I was searching for then I was denied right away and in that denial letter it was due to not having a disability so I had to reapply for disability. Once that was approved I applied for healthcare. I sought out for healthcare but it wasn't clear for the steps of getting that. It didn't jump out to me that you needed to be deemed with a disability to apply for healthcare.
-   **Most recently looking for healthcare and it moved to disability:** Yes.
-   **What were you looking for and where did you go to try to find that information?** Va.gov.
-   **Only va.gov or other sites:** I did a google search to get information to. I could see the google search and it brought me to blogs and stuff. I read a little but a lot wasn't helpful so I didn't read too much and I tried to stay with the va page
-   **Remember the blogs:** no I didn't go on them for too long.
*She did do a google search and read a little bit (some blogs etc) but didn’t find it helpful so stayed with va.gov. She doesn’t remember them because they didn’t help her right away so she didn’t stay on them.*
-   **Were you successful in finding what you were looking for?** Yes.
-   **What could have been better about this experience?** Just the process maybe. I felt like it gives a lot of information, maybe too much information. What I was looking for, I couldn't find right away. All of the information is there but it is overwhelming when you are just looking for one thing. Maybe have a check list and eliminate the other stuff so you are not overwhelmed reading so much that doesn't apply to you.
*There was too much that didn’t apply to me. A checklist might be helpful.*
-   **Search term:** I went to the page and I was interested in healthcare so I went there and searched that. I looked for what qualifies you, I thought I was because of my DD214 and certain aspects. It says you need this OR and that lead me to applying. That wasn't clear to me that I need the disability part.
*She started by looking for healthcare and started to look for what qualifies you. From that she thought she was qualified because of her DD214 and different aspects. She read you needed this this OR This.. it was the OR.. that she thought made her eligible.*


**VA.gov Screen Sharing**

-   I'm going to send you a link and ask that you share your screen.
-   Send link to [http://staging.va.gov](http://staging.va.gov/)
-   **Can you show me how you would go about finding more information about [Disability] benefits?** So when I am looking at this, I am trying to think of the page. It is ‘manage healthcare and benefits’. This wouldn't apply because you are managing it so I would go to va benefits and healthcare. I would look around and try to figure it out. I can go to disability and eligibility and start reading.
*She would go under drop down*
*Looking for disability benefits – she looked at disability tile.. and thinks noe of it would apply because it is all about managing .. she doesn’t have it yet.*

-   **Would you search for something specific:** 
Not typically because a lot of the time if I do a search it pulls up a lot of stuff and I feel like I am click more then finding it directly.
*Not typically because it pulls up a lot of stuff.. and if she would rather go into it directly.*
*“I wouldn’t search on the site”*

-   **If you did decide to search what would you use:** If I was looking for disability, (Types in “disability how to apply”).
-   [When participant uses search and they are on the search results page:]

-   **Walk me through what you're seeing on this page.** 
I see that there are 999 results which is, like, a lot. The top ones I am hoping are mine and I see things are bolded which I like. I would use the first on for va disability compensation and see if it has what I need.  Yeah so here is the eligibility, that is what I am looking for it. Then to how to file the claim, after, and dependents.
*seeing that there are 999 results “woah ok!”*
-   **Why the first link/ What made you click on that specific link?**
It is the first one that comes up. The results always throws me off because it's a lot. I would hope the first one would pull up right away. I would be confused like this one goes to ebenefits. It wouldn't have applied to me because I didn't have the healthcare. That would have thrown me off when I am looking to just apply.
    - *She is hoping that the top recommendations are what you would need*
    - *She would probably go to the 1st link – VA diability compensation and “see if that has what I need”*
    - *She is looking for eligibility so she would go into that.*
    - *She was able to get an area where she found info*
    - *Because it is the first one that came up*
    - *She didn’t know what eBenefits was when she started but does now.. and she would have looked at that initially not knowing that she couldn’t get that without applying.*



-   **What could make this page easier to use or read?**  
I don't know if the results could be narrowed down so it doesn't pull up everything. Once you have benefits, it seems like it is pulling it up because you can apply for me. If I am new and just want to apply that wouldn't help me because I know you can't access it. It surprises me that it comes up right away on this list. I am not sure that the staging throws me off when it is in the search.
-   **URL:** yeah and the staging. I kind of know what it is but it throws me off because why would it take me to staging.
-   **If it said va.gov/disability:** yeah that is more under stable but the staging is thrown in there so it throws me off because why do I need staging. I like the bolded words so that helps me.  I would go to the first one because I wouldn't want to go through the list of 999.
*If the results could get narrowed somehow it would be nice. So it doesn’t pull up everything. She is “new” and just wanted to apply and that wouldn’t help me (referring to the eBenefits link – which she now knows doesn’t apply to her)*

-   **Would you prefer to filter or refine search results in some way? By location? Category?** 
Maybe because if they are separated that would help, if it is what you type it doesn't always narrow it. When searching it can be tricky to know what to type. I would like checkboxes and options. Probably categories so you can go to an advanced search and if I need to go to disability then how to apply or even separating it out to “new” or “more” disability. To me new would be good to, I could have put that in here too maybe.
*Maybe. Because it would let me narrow it doesn’t “When you are searching it can be tricky to know what I should type? (later she said she should have put in ‘new’ in her query)
Filters she would want to see – categories, separating it own into New applications, More disabilities.*


-   **If you were looking for a specific form, form 10-10EZ, how would you locate it on this site?** 
I would go to search right away because I wouldn't know where that would take me. Then see if it comes up, then I could be confused which one it is. Depending on if I knew what it is, maybe I can type in my area. Looking at the healthcare systems, it looks like it is pulling up different ones. I would go to search right away but I would need more information to know which one.
-   **Enter a different way:** No, probably not. Maybe just have it capitalized and if I knew my area like Minnesota.
-   **Would you keep looking here or another site:** I would stay on this site and call someone for help. I wouldn't trust another site. I am not familiar with the VA besides ebenefits.
-   **Next step to call:** Yes.
*- That she would likely search for first but then would be confused by the results “typed “1010 Ez” she said she would need more information to know which one.
Asked after seeing these results would she alter her search at all? She said no probably not.. but then said she could capitalize the Z (1010 EZ). She could add MN to include her area…
If she still can't find it she would probably stay on va.gov but then likely call. Her next step would be to call.

-   **If you were looking for a VA facility near you, how would you locate it on the site?** 
   Click find a va location and fill in my information.  Then just start seeing what is closest to me.
*She immediately went to find a va location at the top. She would add her information. She then zoomed in on the map to see what was closest to her.*


**Post-task Interview**

-   **What was your overall experience with VA search like?** 
   Overall it was good not horrible and I was able to navigate and figure out what I needed to do and complete it. It brought me to what I needed; it took time to read through everything.
*Overall it was good, not horrible, and I was able to navigate and figure out what I was able to do and then complete it. ““it did take a little bit of time to read through everything”*
- **What worked well?**
Being able to figure out what I needed and go through and see the benefits that are available. This may have been easier if I was doing it when first discharged. I don't know how many wait but I had a few years between before seeking any benefits. It's like going back, I can tell it is laid out very military stylish, I work in healthcare too. It is a little healthcare but the wording is military based and it may have been easier when I was first discharged.
-   **Language threw you off due to being out for a while**: 
-   Yes, it has been a few years to me and isn't my everyday life. The language is very military oriented and threw me off a bit.
-   **Would you change anything?** 
-   Probably not. I always go to the top and see what is listed. I like how it is laid out, you click and see the menu.
-   [If there is time] **Is there another site that you've used to search for something that you think worked well? Can you go to that site? - What worked well? - What didn't work well?**
-   **Change**: Probably not, I would want to just type it in and hopefully get the right form. Looking at it I knew I would need more information because there were 33 results. I would make sure I was told the exact form or if I had more information I would type in more with it.
**Other sites:** No I just use google to type in VA benefits and it is normally va.gov as the first website.

**Google search feedback:** Types in va benefits. Then right away it pulls up the va.gov and I know for sure I got on the right page. Sometimes I would go down and see if any of the descriptions would help and here the va.gov comes up again. This one is kind of nice, the veterans benefits explained is where I would go on and see because it says “explained”, so it may tell me more of what to do. It's short but you can click into options and I could go right to the disability. I think I was on military.com a little. I wouldn't go past the first page; I don't click next. I stick with what is on the first page. I would hope everything I need is first here. I may go look at what others ask to see if it is what I am looking for.

Those are all the questions that I had for you today.

-   Do you have any questions for me or is there anything else that you think that I should know? No, I think that is it.

We really appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us today. Your feedback is so helpful to us as we continue to work on the site and make sure it works well for Veterans.


 
**Notes**
- *She doesn’t use search – uses top navigation most*
- *Veterans looking for benefits for the first time may struggle since the site is geared toward already having benefits set up.*
- *Navigational Confusion - She didn’t know what eBenefits was initially and would have gone to Apply for eBenefits when searching – which would have taken her down the wrong path.*  
- *She felt that there was too much information*
- *Military language threw her off a bit (since she has been out of service for some time)*
- *Find a location was a breeze for her*
- *She used military.com for information*



