**Conversation Guide for Search & Discovery**

-   **I have started recording. I'd like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record my screen and audio as we talk today?** Yes.

**Warmup**

-   **To get us started can you tell me briefly about your service history?** 8 army, 8 Navy, 2 break in between and then married a marine which is now an ex-husband.
-   **Are you currently receiving benefits from the VA?**  Yes, I get disability. I am on the docket for BVA to get my benefits I have been fighting for, for the last 20 years.  Hopefully, this will come to fruition since fighting since 2004.

**Past Experience**

-   **What’s been your overall experience in looking for veteran-related information?** It is getting better, sometimes it takes 3 clicks and can be frustrating but it has gotten better.
-   **Can you tell me about a time recently when you were looking for information related to federal VA benefits?** Last time I looked at my status of the appeal and I was looking at death benefits. I was reasonable able to navigate without getting frustrated. It is easily findable.
-   **What were you looking for and where did you go to try to find that information?** I was strolling around va.gov. we used to have to use eBenefits and that is a nightmare from hell. The va.gov has made it easier.
-   **Were you successful in finding what you were looking for?** Yes
-   **What could have been better about this experience?** Really I don’t think. Right now it is pretty easy unless you make a separate thing that you can just click. It is easy right now so. If you find an improvement go for it but it is user friendly right now.

**VA.gov screen sharing**

-   I’m going to send you a link and ask that you share your screen.
-   Send link to [http://staging.va.gov](http://staging.va.gov/)
-   **Can you show me how you would go about finding more information about [education] benefits?** I would have to sign in and I usually use my HealtheVet because it is easier to do. It wont let me go to myhealthevet.
-   **Have you used the search feature on the top:** yeah I have when I was looking for the death benefits. I typed that in and when it comes up I pick the one that is the most appropriate for me.
-   [When participant uses search and they are on the search results page:]

-   **Walk me through what you’re seeing on this page:** Well, it came up with a list of things for veterans, survivors, and I clicked on the death ebenfits for disabled vets. It comes up with almost 1000 things. Then if I don’t find something within the first 10 I go back and type in something new like how to file for death benefits. That’s what I am doing right now to narrow the search parameters. Then it comes up with exactly what I am looking for, the first thing is how to apply for a veterans burial allowance. That’s the first thing and that’s what I am looking for. How to file for it but this doesn’t go into being buried at a veteran cemetery so I have to look again. If that doesn’t come up I need to search how to file for cremation. I would look again for that and it comes up with he same thing, the markers, it comes up with more stuff I need like national cemetery. How to complete the form 40-1330. It took a few times but you have to find certain words to get to where you need to go. I had to put in the correct parameters. How to files for cremation and it gives me everything.
-   **What could make this page easier to use or read?** Well, if the parameters on your end were expanded a bit or narrowed. If someone what’s how to file for cremation and it provided 680 results, put in burial or va cemetery stuff like that I don’t know.  It has burial allowance; I haven’t dug further for what I need for cremation and all that good stuff. You know little stuff like that.
-   **Would you prefer to filter or refine search results in some way? By location? Category?** Probably by category to make it easier for use to find. It comes up with CHAMP VA and compensation VA benefits. It’s not what I was looking for so that’s why I changed it by filter for burial/cremations to get to where I needed to go. I did not need champ va.
-   **What made you click on that specific link?** It was the top one and it was more encompassing. It did have what I was looking for.

-   **If you were looking for a specific form, form 10-10EZ, how would you locate it on this site?** I would just type in form 1010EZ. Because I was a service officer I would put in VA from 1010EZ. How odd. That is so strange. There we go, it didn’t want to go up. It just came up. It didn’t like that I put form in front of it. I got rid of form and then it accepted it.
-   **Which would you click:** the third one down, enrollment into va healthcare.
-   **Why:** Because I have heard so many time you need to go to eligibility and enrollment and that is what stuck out over apply. Any time you have questions on enrollment you need to go to that section. That’s what stuck out to me VS apply.  Click on it: it is a PDF. It goes one about eligibility for enrollment into VA, contact information, enrollment for the benefits page. I would find the form to see if I want to print it or fill out the PDF to submit it online. I do not see that here. I am continuing to scroll, okay it provides it online. Okay it comes up how to apply for VA healthcare, I can apply online for VA healthcare benefits with the green button.

- *She typed “form 101ez”*

- *But then said as a service officer she would type in “va form 1010 ez” but when she tried to do that something weird happened and she couldn’t type in.  She just typed “1010ez” and said that it didn’t like the word form in front of it. And then was able to find what she wanted. She said she would click on the 3rd one down (not the top recommendation) She said she would go there because she has heard so many times that you need to go to eligibility and enrollment before you can apply. So those two words stood out to her.*

- *When asked to click on the 3rd one she sees a pdf criteria form which tells her how to apply and enroll.*

- *When asked if she needed to fill out the form she would find the form and then decide if she wants to print it or try to do it online. She doesn’t see anywhere but then spotted a link and it took her to another page which she could find how to apply*

-   **If you were looking for a VA facility near you, how would you locate it on the site?** That thing on the left that says VA benefits and healthcare. Duh, the third one over find a VA location. Up comes the map. I put in my zip code then what type of facility I need to pull up what is close to me. That would be it. If I wanted urgent care or a vet center. I would look for vet center because they don’t have it near me. The closest one is in -redacted- and that’s an hour away from me. That’s what I would do.

- *At first she was going to use the filtering menu but then saw the find a VA facility link on the top bar. She said she would put in her zip code and then look at the facility type.*

**Post-task Interview**

-   **What was your overall experience with VA search like?** For the most part it was pretty good., I do things differently. I take the long way and tend to find cool stuff. Just information about benefits that they done broadcast or tell us that are out there. I was going to use my COE to buy property to build a house. It says VA wont do it but there’s something that says that the building has to be this way but I found out that the va would approve it. I did that recently.

- *For the most part it was pretty good. She sometimes take the long way around but then finds cool stuff when she does. Information about benefits that she is eligible for but are out there.*

- *She found something that she said she could get some benefit for buying land and building on it.*

-   **What worked well?** Just having the ability to go in and find stuff. Sometimes the filtering needs to be more narrowed, like death benefits for cremation it would be hugely helpful but I still had to filter through things to locate it.
-   **Would you change anything?** Again just maybe narrow the parameters or be more specific like death benefits cremation and it take you right to it. That would be my only suggestion.
-   **[If there is time] Is there another site that you've used to search for something that you think worked well? Can you go to that site? - What worked well? - What didn't work well?** What works well is like if I type in find my appeal status  if I want to me lazy.
-   **Non-va related:** Um, actually for my military access I have had to sue that because when they upgrade I cant sign in or check anything. The military access I have sued that more than anything.
-   **Can you show us a site that you think worded well:** I would need my password and I don’t remember it. I don’t think I can get to it from here. Yupp it comes up as accessing the documents and records. At least this one is in the right place; it is the first one that came up.
-   **eBenefits works well for searching**: Yes. When I was looking for the DoD like cards I can search military access it comes up first. I don’t have any problems with it. It is all peachy, a lot better than it use to be. You did good work on it.

- *She went to search and typed “military access” which brought up DoD Benefits.*

- *“The search is actually working pretty good.” “A lot better than what it used to be” *

Those are all the questions that I had for you today.

-   **Do you have any questions for me or is there anything else that you think that I should know?** Keep doing the strong work you are doing. It had gotten a lot easier to navigate and it has beaten the pants off of eBenefits which is a bloody nightmare. I just go to va.gov because it is more user friendly.

We really appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us today. Your feedback is so helpful to us as we continue to work on the site and make sure it works well for Veterans.


**Notetaker Key Takeaways**

- *Overall, she found search to be a lot better than it used to be*

- *She would like it to bring up more relevant results that are closer to what she is looking for*

- *She highlighted the need for refining form search methods*

- *She mentioned how she sometimes takes (and likes to take) “the long road” to get to information that she is looking for. I interpreted that as she likes it because she learns things along the way. It would be interesting to add in some way to highlight facts/information that veterans may not know about. An educational component that shares knowledge or information in some way. Would be interesting to explore.*
