Jan 28 | 11am
**Conversation Guide for Search & Discovery**

-   I have started recording. I'd like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record my screen and audio as we talk today?" Yes.

**Warmup**

-   **To get us started can you tell me briefly about your service history?** I went in 1986 as a junior in high school in the delayed entry program. I graduated and then went to advance training then I deployed overseas. I was in signal corps. Went to desert storm twice.
-   **Are you currently receiving benefits from the VA?** Service connected with PTSD at 30%, migraine headaches at 0% and I go there for all of my healthcare.

**Past Experience**

-   **What's been your overall experience in looking for veteran-related information?** Pretty much, easy for myself because I signed up for myhealthevet and I use it a lot to get my information.
-   **Can you tell me about a time recently when you were looking for information related to federal VA benefits?** Yes, I went to check on the loan program. I tried to get information on it and I got that and it showed me how to print out my COE. It was complicated at first because it would send you somewhere else then I had to go to ebenefits from myhealthevet, it sent me to va.gov then it sends you to ebenefits to print the certificate.
-   **VA.gov first:** no I went to my HealtheVet because it is all connected my ID.me, it recommended that I go to va.gov to search for the loan then to see the certificate I had to go to ebenefits. I had to go through three sites.
-   **What type of loan:** VA home loan.
-   **Were you successful in finding what you were looking for?** Yes, eventually I found it.
-   **What could have been better about this experience?** I understand myhealthevet because there is infomration there , I can understand it sending me to va,gov but then you had to go to another site. I thought that was a little bit much, I thought va.gov would do it. But I had to go to the third site, a little more time involved but I found it pretty good.
-   *•	He had to go to 3 sites to get the information he needed. Required more time for him to complete his task but he was able to do what he needed.*  

**VA.gov screensharing**

-   I'm going to send you a link and ask that you share your screen.
-   Send link to [http://staging.va.gov](http://staging.va.gov/)
-   **Can you show me how you would go about finding more information about [education] benefits?** Clicks on va benefits and health housing assistance. Click about va home loan types.
-   Thinking: I tapped on housing on the first page then I look under the loan types. Eligibility, so I know if I am eligible for not.
-   **How would you search for this on va.gov:** I would come down here to how to apply on the left side right there and then it tells you over here, clicked on veteran.
-   **What if you are starting on the home page to use the search feature, how would you do it:** I would just go to benefits and healthcare.
-   **Would you ever use the search feature:** Yes, if I don't see what they have listed on the site. You normally can find it in the left hand corner.
-   **If it is not there, what would you type in search:** Maybe if I were looking for assistance in getting clothing allowance, I would type in clothing allowance eligibility.
-   [When participant uses search and they are on the search results page:]
- *He didn’t go to the search at first at all, had to point it out to him, he only uses the the drop downs to find stuff*
- *When requested to use search feature: he typed clothing allowance in the .. didn’t use the type ahead feature.. continued to type clothing allowance eligibility.*
- *He opened the drop down  and when asked to look for loans he scrolled through housing assistance, the about VA home loan types. It seemed to take a few minutes for him to find what he was looking for.*
- *When asked how he would apply.. he used to side bar*


-   **Walk me through what you're seeing on this page:** I see information on forms and handbooks. Then on the left side is where you can go to find out about the eligibility for clothing allowance and id cards. 
*On the right side - He sees forms and handbooks and on the left site there are sites where you go to found out about eligibility for the clothing allowance*
-   **Anything confusing or overwhelming:** It is pretty self-explanatory.
-   **What made you click the first one:** Yes. I would click on the first one for va clothing allowance. It provides the information who is eligible and who isn't. The second only says clothing allowance whereas this one has va clothing allowance and veteran affairs.
-   **How many results:** maybe one or two pages.
*One page or two maybe – depends on if I find what I am looking for*
-   **Would you prefer to filter or refine search results in some way? By location? Category?:** I don't. I usually take what they give me in 10 or 20.
 *I don’t I usually take what they put up and then I choose between them”*

-   **If you were looking for a specific form, form 10-10EZ, how would you locate it on this site?** First thing I would do is look at the right side and they do. But if not I would go to about va to see if there is infomration on forms. If there isn't then I would search for the particular form. I tend to sue what is normally on the page first.
-   First instinct: click find a va form.
-   Look for 1010EZ: They put every form but 1010ez on the first page. That's weird. I normally only go a few pages but I don't see it. I see right here apply for va healthcare. I go one or two pages and if I don't see it I look down and see if it ahs changed. I see at the bottom where you can apply online.
-   *He would first go to the right side (which they do) so he would likely go to find a form tool first.  (then look on the left results, then look at search)*
- *When going to find a form tool and asked to search for 1010ez. He typed “va form 1010ez”*
- *Looking through the results, the said “they put every form but 1010ez on the first page. That’s weird.”*
- *I usually goes one or two pages and if he doesn’t see it then he looks around to see if any of the forms have changed.. he sees at the bottom that you can actually apply online.*

-   **If you were looking for a VA facility near you, how would you locate it on the site?** Click find a va location. Clicks vet centers. Types in Jacksonville, FL. Changes facility type to VA health. Vet center is different from a health center.
-   *Went right to the top Find a VA location very quickly. He looked for VA type first not state.. then went back up to the top*

**Post-task Interview**

-   **What was your overall experience with VA search like?** It was pretty good. On similar searches it is easy to find the information on va.gov. I do it on my HealtheVet because it has my health but sometimes you had to use an additional site to get what you want. You cant manage your health on va.gov right.
-   *•	“pretty good. In similar sessions like that it is pretty easy to find information on va.gov but I will use my healthy vet for things that have to do what I need. Sometimes you have to use a different site to get what you want. I don’t think you can monitor your health on va.gov."*
-   **What worked well?** Everything is pretty much at the top, navigation helps. Everything you need is right at the top, what is offered, the locations and information what the va is about. Everything on that page is pretty good.
-   *navigation at the top helps. Everything you need is at the top.*
-   **Would you change anything?** No.
-   [If there is time] **Is there another site that you've used to search for something that you think worked well? Can you go to that site? - What worked well? - What didn't work well?** All of my sites I go through ID.me. It helps me out a lot to keep my password secure. I go through ID.me to get to myhealthevet, va.gov and ebenefits. There is also shopping through ID.me so I use that a lot because it is secure.
-   **What are other sites:** I normally use it on google mostly. That is the only one I use a lot if I am trying to find information.
-   Goes to google: My laptop is acting funny for some reason. I don't know why it wont load. It is really crazy. Okay there we go. Types in "vacation rentals".
-   **What makes you click on that link and what did you like:** I was looking for a specific type of rental in a specific area. I want to see the top place where people leave reviews for a 4 or 5 star. That's why I clicked on it.
-   Use search on trip advisor: I would look through it then I call them directly or go to their website.
-   **Don't use this search, just directly to their site:** Correct, I wouldn't use trip advisor.
-   **Look through it though:** Yes.
-   *He usually looks on ID.me to keep my passwords secure and look for what I am looking for. He goes through that to find info from all sites (my healthy vet, ebenefits, va.gov). He also uses shopping sites*
- *The only outside search experience he uses is Google. – he went to Yahoo Search first google.yahoo.com first then selected google from the list of results first.*
- *On google he searched for ‘vacation rentals clearwater beach fl” – he didn’t use type ahead at first until after he typed clearwater.. then he used it to fill in the remaining beach fl.*
- *When asked why he selected a result – he said he liked that he can see reviews from people on vacation sites. He went to Trip Advisor – he said he would look through the results and then once he finds a place he tries to go directly to the site for the hotel/rental place.*


Those are all the questions that I had for you today.

-   **Do you have any questions for me or is there anything else that you think that I should know?** I rarely use the search option unless what I am looking for doesn't come up.
*“I very rarely use the search option unless something specific I am looking for doesn’t come up. Then I would type it in exactly how I want it to appear to me”*

We really appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us today. Your feedback is so helpful to us as we continue to work on the site and make sure it works well for Veterans.

*Note Taker Key Takeaways:*
- *Does not use search feature much* 
- *Didn’t use type ahead*
- *Used top navigation dropdowns on va.gov as primary path to find information*
- *Doesn’t mind (or is used to) just looking around to get to info that is closest to what he needs*
- *Strugged to find 1010 ez when typed incorrect. – Direct Quote: “they put every form but 1010ez on the first page. That’s weird.”*
- *He described going to ID.me to navigate all of the VA sites (my healthy vet, ebenefits, va.gov). Illuded to a ‘secure and central’ spot to find content on all sites.*
- *Got the sense that he liked user reviews based on google search for vacation homes. He said he used trip advisor because he liked seeing the reviews.* 
