Feb 1 | 11am


**Conversation Guide for Search & Discovery**

-   I have started recording. I'd like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record my screen and audio as we talk today? Yes.

**Warmup**

-   To get us started can you tell me briefly about your service history? I joined the army in 2014, hurt my back in 2016. Dealt with the pain and was medically discharged in March 2020.
-   Are you currently receiving benefits from the VA? Yes.
-   What are they: Right now I start school this week or next week. Then healthcare and disability.

**Past Experience**

-   What’s been your overall experience in looking for veteran-related information? Honestly, I think the va.gov is to hard to navigate. I find more infomration on reddit or other kind of forum websites.
-   Names of websites: not really it is the random popup most reviews so to speak. I type in the issue or what I am seeking assistance with and type in va and it is one of the first ones that popup.
-   Can you tell me about a time recently when you were looking for information related to federal VA benefits? I was looking to file for an increase for PTSD, I was looking at how to do it. The va site gives the proper form but not guideline on how to do it so I turned to reddit and they helped me fill out the information.
-   Were you successful in finding what you were looking for? Yes.
-   What could have been better about this experience? Just having more tools and guidelines. The file for increase under va increase for disability walks you through it and it asks if they want us to get the medical records. But it doesn’t tell you what to submit, there’s no real assistance to the veteran to get what they think they dese3rve or what to achieve. It is put your information here and we will go through it.
-   More guidance needed: yes.

**VA.gov screensharing**

-   I’m going to send you a link and ask that you share your screen.
-   Send link to [http://staging.va.gov](http://staging.va.gov/)
-   Can you show me how you would go about finding more information about difference between GI Bill benefits? Go to search, This is a problem with eh va websites, it never loads for me.
-   Normally this slow: It all depends on the day, sometimes have of the screen doesn’t even load.
-   What do you do: I just go straight to google and try to solve it there.
-   Maybe try refreshing the page: _worked
-   Walk me through it: I see the top recommended things the va thinks I am looking up; it talks about the eligibility and how to apply for it. Then va education and training, same thing; how to apply.
-   [When participant uses search and they are on the search results page:]

-   Walk me through what you’re seeing on this page: So what I would think is I see post 9-11 rates, I don’t remember the number 35-33-36. None of these show that, it is more talking about the eligibility and how to apply.
-   No link you would click on: No.
-   What would you do: I would try another search. Post 9/11 GI Bill. This one I just look them both up and compare it on my own and take notes.
-   What do you see: This one says check the status of the benefits, the second one looks promising because it talks about the benefits rates and as a student that would be what I would look at to see how much I would receive. I would just click on that one.
-   Second link: Yes.
-   Why: when I think of school and the GI bill, I want to know the rate, am I getting house, BAH. This one shows the rates and the first on is the eligibility status so the second one looks right. Then the third is transferring the benefits.
-   What could make this page easier to use or read?
-   Would you prefer to filter or refine search results in some way? By location? Category? I generally don’t do that; I just feel like when I filter to much I leave something out or include to much and it is to refined in my opinion.
-   How many results do you typically look at? I generally look at the first page so that would be 10 of them.

-   If you were looking for a specific form, form 10-10EZ, how would you locate it on this site? I would just click the search.
-   What do you see: the first one I don’t even know, workshop for local veterans. I assume by that description they talk about how to help someone complete the form. Then the rest is becoming a patient, the second one I don’t even know what it is. I am not sure, at this point I would go to google and look up the form number and it will be the first one and they would have it already.
-   If you were looking for a VA facility near you, how would you locate it on the site? I would search va facility near me. This shows up, travel pay, covid vaccine, nursing home, covid 19, FAQ. Oh here find va location, what do you know. I would just put in whatever I want I guess, primary care.
-   Always gets stuck when searching: It is a 50/50, it does happen. It didn’t even locate. The website is finicky. Is it searching now, where is it, its like right here.
-   You know there are facilities there but it wont show: Yes. There is one five miles from where I live right now.

**Post-task Interview**

-   What was your overall experience with VA search like? I would say it isn’t the worst thing, I would say they could improve the search functions. Have kind of a search bar like looking up forms. I don’t know if there’s a link to certain forms on the va.gov site, that’s why I go straight to google. I just found out the locator is on there. I know they have benefits and disability but they could have the fo0rms under those sections as well like education. Other than that I feel like the government websites I have a jagged view and how filtered they are, there isn’t a clear line of sight of what they want you to do.
-   What worked well? Yes and no. searching for the education benefits had a lot and if I want to look it up I could learn a lot. If you want to learn it would be google because it doesn’t have an outside source.
-   Would you change anything? Just the form thing, that’s it. Access to all forms under one area.
-   [If there is time] Is there another site that you've used to search for something that you think worked well? Can you go to that site? - What worked well? - What didn't work well? Do you know the form number for disability. Google search file disability, just the claim form.
-   That was what you were looking form: Let me make sure, yes this is the form I am looking for.
-   Search results, what do you like: Google knows that I have something for VA and disability claim. I think it will take me to the disability claim segment to walk you through how to file it out. Here’s the find a form, I didn’t know the va had a spot for that at all. Everything va, here’s another link to download va forms. This is everything I would want.
-   Any features on google you like, such as filter: no I really don’t use the filter button for anything. I don’t use any of that.
-   Like it comes up with results you need: yes.

Those are all the questions that I had for you today.

-   Do you have any questions for me or is there anything else that you think that I should know? No that was it.

We really appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us today. Your feedback is so helpful to us as we continue to work on the site and make sure it works well for Veterans.
