**Conversation Guide for Search & Discovery**

-   I have started recording. I'd like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record my screen and audio as we talk today? Yes I am.

**Warmup**

-   To get us started can you tell me briefly about your service history? I served from 84 to 91 during the gulf war period. I was in the national guard for a year after but I work in IT and I have been using the online abilities since 2009-2010. I have been using the ebenefits which is on va.gov as well as using the va.gov to track claims and the myhealthevet to track appointments and renewing medication. I work in it and have for many years so there’s no issue with me telling you what is weird or not right.
-   Are you currently receiving benefits from the VA? Yes. VA disability payments, I received a va home loan, va health care as well as my prescriptions through the va.

**Past Experience**

-   What’s been your overall experience in looking for veteran-related information? Initially it was pretty poor, it wasn’t refined and difficult. I think mostly you deal with claims, doing them online start when I had already done paper claims in 91. When you were able to do it online you could fill out the intent to file but couldn’t actually file, then you needed to manually file it. I started at 10 percent and now at 90 percent so I have went through the process of asking for more and try to do it mostly electronically and advice veterans how to do it. The C&P and notification are frustrating because if you claim multiple things on the va claim, they may set up a C&P exam and see the notice for the exam but not under your ebenefits but not under appointments. You have no idea when you go there and then they talk about other things. Maybe one gastro, pain management. They are three different disciplines; you assume it would be 3 different people but its not. If it is you may not hear form the other three until you ask questions, now there. I have submits a HLR and it was I would go to ebenefits and says you have no claims or appeals open. Its not an appeal but it doesn’t tell you about the HLR. It looks like on HLR made a change recently but I have another one to do another HLR. It is on my appeals and claims so I go through that as well.
-   Help other veterans with va related thing, do you talk to anyone: I do ask questions but nor ally I am providing the infomration because I am not afraid of technology so click this and go here. I try to make it simple like go to google click the link then enter va claim. I have done that with people from all ages, my step-son is 37, I helped him do it. My father in law, he is completely computer illiterate. He had never gone to the VA even though he suffered, I was able to get him in and now were getting his rating increased.
-   Can you tell me about a time recently when you were looking for information related to federal VA benefits? I actually always check on upcoming appointments because you don’t always get it in email and it can be confusing, the VA gives text, call or a letter, they also have it listed in my HealtheVet site and send an email of upcoming appointments. Some information isn’t completely enough where I in in Vancouver, there are two campus. It will tell you the location but the email won’t tell you which department it is with. I have had optometry, gastro, primary care, imagine at different location but it doesn’t tell you exactly where it is at so you need to think about it.
-   Missing information, how do you find it: The emails will have missing information in it in my mind, I get it because I can look for it but many are confused due to the way it reads. I have an appointment date/time, confirmed video connect. But if I didn’t remember when I made it I would be confused because I have appointments to September.
-   No way to find the email but you remember: I can go into va appointments on VA.gov’s and it provides more information but it does the sort in chronically order, I have appointments February, march and august. If I had a lot of appointments I would be searching a lot. Sometimes it says check status, I do it on computer but if doing it on the cellphone it is difficult. It does say primary care and my doctor but at times there are things that don’t make sense because like poor eye tech -c. I don’t remember what it was if it was neurology or optometry.
-   Can find it on va.gov, incomplete as well: Correct, as a reference it says go here then your appointments to see it. I use the computer to do it and it is easy but others that aren’t computer literate have issues going back and forth. The continuity isn’t there.
-   Emails are a lot different: yes.
-   What were you looking for and where did you go to try to find that information?
-   Were you successful in finding what you were looking for?
-   What could have been better about this experience?

**VA.gov screensharing**

-   I’m going to send you a link and ask that you share your screen.
-   Send link to [http://staging.va.gov](http://staging.va.gov/)
-   Can you show me how you would go about finding more information about [education] benefits? A lot of it is here, like file for va disability increase, check claim or appeal.
-   Anything that you’d use the search feature: I don’t use it myself but I know others that have asked it. One of the tings would be WA state benefits. I know the va doesn’t do what the states due but this is just like a google search.

-   [If they cannot think of anything to look up] Just as an example, if you were wondering if you were eligible for dental benefits, how would you locate that information?

-   [When participant uses search and they are on the search results page:]

-   Walk me through what you’re seeing on this page.: Download va benefits letters, I would be looking to WA state benefits because each state ahs things for veterans like state parks for free, no property tax. If above 30 percent there’s no closing fees reduction for tuition like TX. It is important to people; I ask where they live because it is a different answer. Like homeless, I have given money to vets so they can get a house, there’s no way in here that is concise for veterans. In one group I attend I point it out, they try it but don’t understand it. I use VA.gov as the main but tell them to look at ebenefits to. I would go to google and see WA state va page that looks different then other states, so there’s no consistently there either.
-   What could make this page easier to use or read? This looks just like google so it is easy. It went to staging, maybe it is the code. It may be doing the local site. If I do a google search this is what I would be looking for, this on DVA,wa,gov that’s the actually wa va state department and it ahs it. Google has its adds and this isn’t even the government site. Between these searches they look the same but doesn’t give me what I want because of WA. It may be limited due to the staging but I feel like it is just searching the site.
-   Would you prefer to filter or refine search results in some way? By location? Category? One thing I would like to see, there use to be a way to filter it in google, sometime is would look at times if I know something was just changed. I would look in the past year or month to refined it I don’t see it on va.gov. It would be nice to search within these results but being able to refine it to only look at this and gives you a subset. There may be information but stuck on the 4-5 page. Some people don’t like looking at the page after page, then when you click on it, it brings up another government page and you don’t want it so if you could refine it more that would be good.
-   How many results do you typically look at? I look at the first page maybe two but if I don’t see what I want then I refine what I am looking for to limit it more. Again it isn’t going outside of staging.
-   Anything to click on: Here’s the va funding for closing costs, it won’t give me everything I need because I am looking for property tax. The va has benefits for homeless veterans but each state does as well so it is confusing for me. I say call your local va at that point because these are people that tried to get help, some you can see didn’t try to get help.
-   What made you click on that specific link?

-   If you were looking for a specific form, form 10-10EZ, how would you locate it on this site? I would go to google first. I would do the search on va.gov, is it a change in address form. Eligibility and enrollment for va healthcare but the first thing was the change of address. I see it didn’t take my zero I am sorry. It still brought up change of address. Something that can be confusing for people is the numbered forms but us military people are used to it but we don’t always know the number of it. This isn’t even the form it is eligibility criteria.
-   How would refine the search: How to submit the disability form.
-   How would you find the healthcare form: I assume it is a health plan because I haven’t filled it out but I get my healthcare form the va so I would type health insurance. In general that is how people would look,
-   If you were looking for a VA facility near you, how would you locate it on the site? Searches VA facility Vancouver. The Portland one is what I would eb looking for . The third link would get me to the same spot.
-   Which would you click: I would read down and go to Portland va medical center Vancouver because I can see it. Also searches hoe do I get covid vaccine. I don’t know if it has accurate information, I used secure messaging and they provided a number to call and get on a wait list and then I shared it on FB with a lot of veterans so they could have it. I had to ask people from the va, a lot of veterans doesn’t do it, either a new veteran that has lived with computers or Korean veterans. I try to specific where to call which option and if they can put you on a call back list when they have vaccines. Currently they aren’t giving the first shot.
-   Post it on FB first: yes, like here it provides the general information on covid and we are working with CDC and healthcare personnel. I know you have to call the primary care at the VA I spoke with a lady that got out and they filled out her paperwork, she wasn’t medically retired, she got 90 percent but has never been to the va and she needed health insurance. It is funny where people go, I have been in IT for a long time so I know where to look for stuff.
-   The lady, over FB: yes. I belong to a number of Facebook groups like military page NCO’s former and present. Some specific for companies I was in as well. The biggest one I do the most posting is vets mentoring vets. It was created by a guy that has his own non-profit and does live streams and people come ask for information. I tell people to contact the va if they are having certain issues because the crisis line is open 24/4.

**Post-task Interview**

-   What was your overall experience with VA search like? For me it was okay, I would like it to be refined because how do I get a covid vaccine form the VA. I know because I use the va so I have to contact my PCP. So I might put PCP whereas other don’t know what it is.  I try to think outside of my box. I am used to it, sometimes I would grab this bit, copy it, and paste in search to help refine.
-   Clarification: Google gave me a lot more, the vaccine and the CDC and the DOH. This goes outside of the va. It tells you the number so I would click on it then look. For people that have posted and asked questions and don’t understand I try to make it as simple as possible if they still can’t do it I would copy the link. It is easier than trying to teach them how to use a computer.
-   What worked well?
-   Would you change anything? Adding a filter to search within the results, in this case we know it will come up with something because there was already a search.  Here it says they are working close with the CDC and nothing came up but its right there.
-   Location, or how: what generally happens with the search programs at the company I work with. It can index what is on public drives, you can refine the results like out of the 999 results. You basically click refine which opens another bar where I can add in CDC and it would only give me the things on only CDC or COVID or scheduling shots. You don’t need to do a new search.

Those are all the questions that I had for you today.

-   Do you have any questions for me or is there anything else that you think that I should know? I cant think of anything but I am more than willing to assist if you need to check anything else out in the future.

We really appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us today. Your feedback is so helpful to us as we continue to work on the site and make sure it works well for Veterans.
