**Conversation Guide for Search & Discovery**

-   **I have started recording. I'd like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record my screen and audio as we talk today?"** Yes ma’am.

**Warmup**

-   **To get us started can you tell me briefly about your service history?** I was in the navy for 4 years, stationed in Texas then the ship caught on fire then sent to San Diego.
-   **Are you currently receiving benefits from the VA?** I have 20 percent for a hernia and half of my face was paralyzed and they have it as neurological paralyzation .
-   **Disability:** yes ma’am.

**Past Experience**

-   **What’s been your overall experience in looking for veteran-related information?** Just for me it is the lack of information, maybe I am not searching the right thing. I put in for a claim and have been denied a few times. I don’t know if I am not doing it correctly.
-   **Can you tell me about a time recently when you were looking for information related to federal VA benefits?** I did one in September and the most part was the shame of doing it because I was taught just get up and keep moving but even for searching for mental help. I don’t know if I need to be diagnosed prior to getting help, that’s where I have a hard time finding information.
-   **What were you looking for and where d id you go to try to find that information?** I was under eBenefits. I searched under their website under eBenefits.
-   **Were you successful in finding what you were looking for?** To an extent. I still have a few questions and I am logged in right now and I just cant find it. I don’t know if I am looking in the wrong place.
-   **What could have been better about this experience?** The search bar on eBenefits.

**VA.gov screen sharing**

-   I’m going to send you a link and ask that you share your screen.
-   Send link to [http://staging.va.gov](http://staging.va.gov/)
-   **Can you show me how you would go about finding more information about [education] benefits**? This ones a little different. This looks different from the one I use. I was on eBenefits. This is different then what I use, is this what I should be using VA.gov.
-   [When participant uses search and they are on the search results page:]

-   **Walk me through what you’re seeing on this page.** Just different links for what I put in; this seems more user friendly.
-   **Why you clicked that link:** It is the first one and maybe the most popular.
-   **What could make this page easier to use or read?**  Maybe a few more hyperlinks when you click on something or links for medical, it is more what I am looking at or different number. I don’t know if we have access. Yeah maybe a few links.
-   **Where would they go:**  See right here where it says programs and services add a few hyperlinks there, I know they are down here for mental health, no that’s fine where they are. Right where you have them looks good.
-   **Would you prefer to filter or refine search results in some way? By location? Category?** That would be very helpful.
-   **How:** just like they are down here when you broke it down by the trauma such as MST, depression, just like you have it down here. See then you have a mixture of other services like eye and hearing loss. Simplicity is the best way to go.
-   **How many results do you typically look at?** I just go down a few, the first one is pretty much what I have had questions. For me it is more the phone numbers instead of email. It is hard to get through to people, I know everyone is calling and going through a difficult time. Maybe a few numbers, I know everyone uses phones and computers but sometimes it is good hearing someone’s voice. When you email you don’t know if you are getting your point through.

-   **If you were looking for a specific form, form 10-10EZ, how would you locate it on this site?** I would go to the search, just like that. Is the 1010ez form a change of address. Okay the second link, then if I didn’t know it was healthcare I would have clicked on change of address because it is the first link. The 1010 is for enrollment.
-   **If you were looking for a VA facility near you, how would you locate it on the site?** The same way under search, yeah just the same way. I would use the search bar with everything because I am not familiar with the forms, I am new at applying. If you call the VA number its like you can never get through and when you do they try to connect you to somewhere else. Maybe you have them  but I haven’t been able to find them.
-   **Have you been to va.gov:** I am used to eBenefits but I am not familiar with va.gov.
-   **Let's look for a number, where would you look:** Find locations, address, See these give the campus numbers or main number. This is the number I call the 827-1000. That’s where I would go to under contact us.
-   **Would you ever go to resources and support:** where’s that at. Is this new. See this has everything here, this looks good. This is helpful. See that’s what I was look for, this is very helpful. These must be the most FAQ.
-   **Go to the decisions sections:** yeah. Yeah so sign in, yeah I was on the other day because I have one under review. I have been to this p-age.
-   **Was it helpful**: yes the tabs are good and they explain. I like the files and overview.
-   **Once you login, it answers your questions:** yes.

**Post-task Interview**

-   **What was your overall experience with VA search like?** To me it is more of the phone numbers but now that you’ve shown me the resource it is sue. Most individuals are old timers, it isn’t new to us most. We are used to going to google but the government and google are two different things. We can go to google to search anything. I like how this is broken down into three.
-   **Difference between google and government:** with google we can go in and search the number and it comes up but for the va I can search and it could not pop up.
-   **Rather go to google than va.gov:** yeah but it doesn’t work. You don’t get the right information. Well for me it hasn’t worked out, I have looked for military health and it does take you to bad sites.
-   **Results from google are better then va.gov:** No ma’am. They are not helpful they take you to false sites.
-   **What happens on va.gov:** it is different for me; it is google and the VA site are totally different. I have used google to search and it takes you to lump sum payments like someone trying to pull one of the veteran.
-   **What worked well?** When using it with you it was helpful.
-   **Would you change anything?** No ma’am. That was simple, I like where it is here. Normally it is in the corner like the crisis line but now I can see all three of them, I don’t know if it is a new change but for me it ahs been in the corner.
-   **[If there is time] Is there another site that you've used to search for something that you think worked well? Can you go to that site?** - What worked well? - What didn't work well? Not as far as VA stuff, I think eBenefits is what I used mostly.
-   **Other sights that works well for searching:** I don’t do much searching. I just use google. Not even google it is on the apple phone. I can click on it and type what I am looking for. I think this is cleaner now how you all have it.
-   **Can you show me how you use the app:** the one on my phone.
-   **You type it in**: yeah I type it on the top, it took me right back to the VA site.
-   **Try searching a term on the top:** I just typed in mental health and it took me to VA. That’s where I would go.
-   **What do you think of the presentation here, helpful/confusing:** to me it is confusing. Just picking the right one or knowing the creditability or not knowing is what scares me.
-   **Trust what’s on va.gov more:** right, absolutely. Sometimes you click on something and it feels more like the unknown is what I am afraid of or you put your email then you have a 1000 emails of spam. That’s what I feel like.

Those are all the questions that I had for you today.

-   **Do you have any questions for me or is there anything else that you think that I should know?** No, I was just using the wrong site I need to go to va.gov. I like that it is clean and looks simple to me. I guess under eBenefits it took me here because I have clicked on it before but I thought I was still under eBenefits. I like it, it is self-explanatory. It really is, I like how you have it in bold. Ok, I like it.

We really appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us today. Your feedback is so helpful to us as we continue to work on the site and make sure it works well for Veterans.
