**Conversation Guide for Search & Discovery**

-   **I have started recording. I'd like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record my screen and audio as we talk today?** Yea ma’am I am.

**Warmup**

-   **To get us started can you tell me briefly about your service history?** I did 9 and a half year active duty army from 98 til 06. A year after I joined air national guard and retired in 2020.
-   **Are you currently receiving benefits from the VA?** I am receiving compensation for PTSD and my lower back and for my feet.

**Past Experience**

-   **What’s been your overall experience in looking for veteran-related information?** On the VA website I haven’t had any problems thus far. I have found eBenefits as user friendly but its not complicated it is still easy.
-   **Can you tell me about a time recently when you were looking for information related to federal VA benefits?** That was last week, I went in and it was pretty much to see the status on my claims.
-   **Looking at claims, where did you look:** That was on eBenefits.
-   **Were you successful in finding what you were looking for?** Yes ma’am.
-   **What could have been better about this experience?** Nothing at all in all honesty. The biggest thing is trying to figure out if they are moving to one system or staying with VA.gov or eBenefits.

**VA.gov screen sharing**

-   I’m going to send you a link and ask that you share your screen.
-   Send link to [http://staging.va.gov](http://staging.va.gov/)
-   **Can you show me how you would go about finding more information about [education] benefits?** Normally I would sign in. I would go to the menu or search. I don’t normally go to the search. I click healthcare, disability, for this I would normally go to view VA payment history. Of course I would need to login.
-   **What about if it is a general questions, what would you search:** Disability ratings, that is how I would normally do it if I cant find it.
- *In search he typed “disability”*

-   **[When participant uses search and they are on the search results page:]**

-   **Walk me through what you’re seeing on this page:** They are asking me if I want to view it, how to be assigned the rating, I would normally look at that as well, compensation rates, then there’s other stuff for special monthly rates.

- *He saw the top recommendations which seemed to be things he would click on because he said that is something I would normally go look at (how the VA assigns disability ratings)*
- *The remaining results “then a bunch of other stuff”* 


-   **Would you prefer to filter or refine search results in some way? By location? Category?** No, not really.
-   **How many results do you typically look at?** This has 999 results in regard to what I just put in for ratings. Normally I wouldn’t go to the next page because what I am interested in looking at I see it; it is view the rating or the compensation rates. Everything else I am familiar with.
-   **What made you click on that specific link?** If it is to where I am looking for the 2021 ratings I would click on that one and scroll through.
- *If I was looking for 2021 disability rates I would click on the 2nd result* 
- *“oh this is interesting” he said on the page itself*

-   **If you were looking for a specific form, form 10-10EZ, how would you locate it on this site?** Clicked apply for healthcare benefits.
- *He typed “1010Ez” in the search and then clicked on the top recommendation.*
-   **If you were looking for a VA facility near you, how would you locate it on the site?**  Clicked on contact us, goes to find a VA location near you. Puts in address, chooses VA health.
- *He thought about using search but then saw “contact us” so he clicked on that and saw the section contact a local facility. He clicked on the link and then started to use the search in there. He found the -redacted- VA Clinic and said “there you go!”*

**Post-task Interview**

-   **What was your overall experience with VA search like?** It has been good; I don’t have any issues it is easy to navigate.
-   **What worked well?** I would say everything. Everything I pout in the response was quick, the fact it brought up my address was good I didn’t expect it but it made it easy to narrow down what I was looking for.
- *I didn’t anticipate it to put in my address in the find a facility form tool. That made it easier for me to find*
-   **Would you change anything?** No, no I actually wouldn’t.
-   **[If there is time] Is there another site that you've used to search for something that you think worked well? Can you go to that site? ** In terms of the VA. Apart from google. I would say google.
-   **What would you search:** if I were to search for VA disability, I would normally try to see different citations the VA has, there are do many other websites that come up but I try to go right to the VA link if there is one.
-   **What do you think on the page you were on:** It requires a lot of reading and it talks about how a particular veteran and what they put in for and how they came out. I use that for information that I may be putting in for but that is a lot of information to read.
-   **Helpful when putting claim in:** Yes, I would say so.
-   **Do people also ask, is that helpful:** Yes it actually is, I normally click down to see what the VA considers 20 percent. It is helpful.
-   **Just click down to see it quick:** Yes.
-   **Anything else that is helpful or not helpful:** In all honestly everything is helpful. It is if the information is creditable. Not all information is good information but I sort through it. It is pretty much helpful.
- *He would go to google.* 
- *He has used google to search for information related to the VA
- When asked “what you would search for in google” he typed in “Va disablility rating for lumbar …*
- *Normally he would like to see if there are any Citation that the VA has* 
- *He tries to go to the VA link if there is one and avoid other sites. - He clicked on Citation page. He said it requires a lot of reading. - He uses it for information to see if it is related to what he needs. It is just a lot of information to go through.* 
- *Moderator asked “is the people also ask” section if that is helpful to him. He said yes it is, he normally clicks down to see the answers for those questions.  “yeah, it is helpful”* 
- *It give a quick bit of information which is helpful.* 
- *“not all information is good information” he says most of the information is helpful.*

Those are all the questions that I had for you today.

-   **Do you have any questions for me or is there anything else that you think that I should know?** No, I guess initially you guys were testing if we requested for the HLR through the website.

We really appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us today. Your feedback is so helpful to us as we continue to work on the site and make sure it works well for Veterans.



**Notetaker Key Takeaways**

- *I got the impression he doesn’t use search that much since he went to the menu at first*

- *He had no problem finding the form because this query brought up the best bet for 1010ez right away. (validating our recent discussion that best bets are incredibly helpful and ensuring those are highlighted with appropriate queries will improve experience!)*

- *He typically logs in for VA related information. I got the impression that he doesn’t generally look for ‘generic’ va info.. he logs in and looks for info that way.*

- *Overall, he liked va.gov and found it easy to navigate but he likes eBenefits better*

- *He wants one VA site not many*

- *He liked the quick snippets of information on google since they are easier to consume.*
