Feb 4 | 11am
**Conversation Guide for Search & Discovery**

-   I have started recording. I'd like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record my screen and audio as we talk today?" I am comfortable.

**Warmup**

-   **To get us started can you tell me briefly about your service history?** I enlisted in the army of July of 64, I served until July of 68. I was stationed in the US three different assignments, fort Jackson, fort Meade and marinara. Then I was in west Germany.
-   **Are you currently receiving benefits from the VA?** I am not.

**Past Experience**

-   **What’s been your overall experience in looking for veteran-related information?** I have had no activity at all, the benefits I used was the GI Bill education, and VA mortgages. It was down prior to the internet. It was slow in those days because it was mail service.
-   **Pre-internet has there been a reason you haven’t looked for anything recently:** It is primary because I haven’t felt the need for the benefits. I worked for a long time and have adequate means.
-   **Do you know veterans that have:** No, I know veterans but I don’t know if they have looked for that. People of my generation that used these a long time ago. I don’t know, maybe they have or maybe they haven’t. the only one I did look at a while ago was the eligibility to be buried at Arlington.
-   **How did you try to find information:** Well actually I had a few friends that used the service for spouses so I had background information and I went to look under the burial information. I had an idea of where to look but had to so a little bit of work on my own.
-   **How:** I went to VA.gov
-   **Successful:** yes.
-   **What could have been better:** Well since it did not seem difficult I do not have any recommendations.

**VA.gov screen Sharing**

-   I’m going to send you a link and ask that you share your screen.
-   Send link to [http://staging.va.gov](http://staging.va.gov/)
-   **Can you show me how you would go about finding more information?** Well one that I have already research was records, requesting the dd214. Well the problem is that I do not have disabilities, I have healthcare, I don’t know that my education benefits. Here’s burials and memorials.
-   **What if it’s not here, how would you search:** Maybe find a va location since I don’t know where they would be. It is taking rather a ling time. I could try something different.
-   **What about if you were eligible for dental benefits:** Under more VA resource. Okay here are the VA locations. I put in my zip code. Then the facility type, let's say VA benefits. How about disability claim, I am going through this for you because I do not claim that. Okay, the map is going down to something in my town of Vienna, that is actually my location. In my neck of the woods, we got snow, what about you. Well if this were important to me I would be very frustrated. I have a good internet connect so I was wonder if it is me or the other end.
-   **Important to know it is slow:** Yes
-   **What about dental benefits:** Click VA benefits and healthcare. I would click about va health benefits, that was quick good. I would scroll through here to see what is covered. I see dental on the left so I click on that. I would look down under what do I qualify for if anything. I see the FAQ so if any applied I would click on them.
-   [When participant uses search and they are on the search results page:]

-   **Walk me through what you’re seeing on this page:** First it is the eligibility for burial, if it something one is looking for you need to find and then the items, FAQ, memorial day. It is basis information. My search questions was Arlington national cemetery eligibility.
-   **What could make this page easier to use or read?** The thing that would be useful would be something that applied to my questions. It may be under the first search item and then again it may not. The other thing I think would be useful is if I am just looking for the  burial in the national cemetery, the listing for everywhere. Some states only have 1, maybe that’s in FAQ section. Okay I see locations as I read through. I would click on that one.
-   **Would you prefer to filter or refine search results in some way? By location? Category?** No, I would click on what I am looking for and go there to see the information. What forms are required, the forms and how to apply.
-   **What made you click on that specific link?** First link because my original question what the Arlington national cemetery eligibility so what forms and process do I need to go through. The second thing which was notional was to see where they are within various states.

-   **If you were looking for a specific form, form 10-10EZ, how would you locate it on this site?** First I would scroll because I didn’t see the search box at the top. Okay so I had to go all the way down to more VA resources and I would click at find VA forms.
-   **Don’t see the search:** I see the search under the red banner now. I see it now.
-   **1010EZ:** I would enter it in. How would I know the number of the form. First of all now that I scrolled further I see the 1010EZ. Okay. Then that brings up what I need to apply.
-   **Something you don’t see; can you show me how to search:** How about Arlington nation cemetery eligibility. There we go, that came very quickly.


**Post-task Interview**

-   **What was your overall experience with VA search like?** Expect for the lag in bring up a few screen it has been very good.
-   **What worked well?** The search function worked well and on the previous screen to find the 1010EZ form. If I had gone on the row below searching it is there as a frequently asked forms. It wasn’t intuitive for me to go there prior to entering a term to be searched.
-   **Would you change anything?** Instead of watching the lines going around I would look elsewhere for just get off the site.
-   **[If there is time] Is there another site that you've used to search for something that you think worked well? Can you go to that site? - What worked well? - What didn't work well?** Other searches are much easier. Does it have to be government sites? This is the Northern VA parks, it is fairly good on searching when I want to find. Here I get information about the parks in general and it starts taking me to various parks or I can just bring up a quick menu with limited items compared to a VA site. But if I am trying to find a park near my house I click on it and there it is.
-   **Have you used the search function:** I was looking for a park that I had seen a sign for. That was the name of the park and here are the connects to that. Then from the answer I got information about the little park itself.
-   **Weather site, do you like the search function:** well lets see. I have liked this site up in NJ. I am a master gardener in the local area so I went in this to look at their research in the trial garden. It then takes me to lots of things.
-   **When you click the search, do you like the popular searches:** I have clicked on directions because it is a few hour drive. I was going to search a plant and see if they have it. Well, here’s a plant finder, it gave me the plants they did a trail on.
-   **Went well:** there was no lag. If my running into difficulties on va.gov was do to problems on my end this site as well as NOVA parks, there was no difficulties. I don’t think the searches on va.gov were difficult. Depending on the state of the person if they critically need PTSD counseling their frustration levels would not allow them to sit there while the ball went around.
-   **Anything else:** No I think I know what I was expecting to find whereas the VA site I was in unknown territory and did  not know what it would return or how long it would take or if the results were what I needed because we did not get that far.
-   **VA tab again:** Let's do another search. National cemetery location, I like how it auto corrected the spelling. Okay so this one was quick and whatever database they pulled form is faster. this is a grave site locator; I want to go back. Okay, I was looking for cemetery locations. Grave locator which is not the same thing, benefits, and the locator again. If I am trying to find where I would do a search in Ohio to see where they are located. Let’s try Ohio national cemetery location. It is lagging again. Again grave site locator, well, so it's there. Okay, so we are going down here, I think it may have been my error. Okay, this got me where I was trying to go.
-   **What would you change:** I think not very much the issue was the size of my fingers but it was not obvious when I went to national cemetery that it was looking for a burial site. It was not clear to see that it would be state by state.
-   **What worked well:**  When I saw on the left hand side I saw the state by state, it worked perfectly and did not lag.

Those are all the questions that I had for you today.

-   Do you have any questions for me or is there anything else that you think that I should know? No, I guess a question I would have. Since I used the Gi bill in the late 60-70’s and then the home loan in the 70-80’s. what would I have to do to find that information.
-   I see a sign in and I have never had an account. I could sign up for an account.
-   **Would you ever search education or what would you next step be:** It would be more of curiosity to see if I am listed because I used it and is it accurate. One place I used the national archives to get my records and my fathers but unfortunately they were burned in 1970 in the fire. It was difficult because you needed to send a copy of the discharge orders and it was a long process for the result I didn’t want to hear.
-   **Would you keep searching:** If I wanted to see the records they had on me, yes, I would go through this method. That’s what I meant, to see the benefits that they paid me 300 a month.
-   **Anything else:** that is pretty much it.

We really appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us today. Your feedback is so helpful to us as we continue to work on the site and make sure it works well for Veterans.
