Feb 5 | 12pm

**Conversation Guide for Search & Discovery**

-   I have started recording. I'd like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record my screen and audio as we talk today? Yes you’re fine.

**Warmup**

-   **To get us started can you tell me briefly about your service history?** I was in the Air Force for 5.5 years as active duty and now in the reserves in the same branch. Working in the ART program as an active reserve technician.
-   **Are you currently receiving benefits from the VA?** I do, I am at 30%.

**Past Experience**

-   **What’s been your overall experience in looking for veteran-related information?** At first, of course, you know they don’t tell you about the eBenefits website until later, when I was talking to a friend. At first it was tough getting use to the site and it goes down and you just have to wait. Overall, I still filed a claim and I am doing an appeal now and I haven’t talked to anyone for that yet. I haven’t really touched up on the educational side yet. I did for the healthcare side and got a phone call after I was on the website and filed an application for healthcare and they called a year later and I was enroll then told me some of the services that was it.
-   **How to:** from a friend but I went through TAPS but they don’t talk to much about the processes. It was an opinion from other people to know what was actually going on.
-   **Can you tell me about a time recently when you were looking for information related to federal VA benefits?** The most recent one was the healthcare one. I don’t know if you know but eBenefits and va.gov is different sites but connected, I saw it that way it would take me to va.gov once I pressed a few buttons. I had to search it up, trying to see the benefits I might have. One thing I did was when they started to send me information from the website, it has educations and healthcare. I clicked it and started the process.
-   **Had to search it, what did you search**: I was just searching through the buttons to see if there was anything that could have been done for me. I didn’t know what I needed to do once I got out of the military. I knew I could place a claim, get healthcare and education. I knew that but I didn’t know where to go from there and I am trying to find out what I need to do to get my medicine for life. It is service connected and I need to get the medicine for free but I don’t know what I needed to do so I clicked a button and I assume it lead me to put in my insurance into the website. Then someone called me a week later and they explained to me how I should have near by hospitals and set things up but they said the next appointment isn’t until July. I wanted to get the medicine as soon as possible I still have some but I am running out. As far as that I don’t know how to use the site.
-   **Were you successful in finding what you were looking for?** I would say so because I could enroll into healthcare but I am still waiting on the appointment. It is waiting games.
-   **What could have been better about this experience?** You have the website laid out, in my opinion, what I use to do with eh dashboard it was helpful. My messages and everything. Why don’t we put everything that could be helpful on the left side instead of the front page because you have to login anyways to get into to view things.
-   **Better organized, how would you do it:** I would have the dashboard next to your name, the tabs on the left side like profile. Maybe putting some sites that could be accessed there, it would be helpful to individuals that use the dashboard.
-   **Dashboard on home page to:** No the opposite. Everything on the homepage on the dashboard.

**VA.gov screensharing**

-   I’m going to send you a link and ask that you share your screen.
-   Send link to [http://staging.va.gov](http://staging.va.gov/)
-   **Can you show me how you would go about finding more information about [education] benefits?** I would scroll down to the education; I assume it would be there. Here it doesn’t have how to start it but I guess you can apply for education eBenefits. I did use a little here for the housing assistance. I am in process of closing but if you have a disability of 30% you don’t need to pay the funding fee which was helpful.
-   **Would you ever use the search function:** It didn’t come to me, normally the search button is like google. It goes straight to the webpage and it is like the same thing. I am just not use to this search button.
-   [When participant uses search and they are on the search results page:]

-   **Walk me through what you’re seeing on this page:** The top recommended is what people use the most.
-   **What could make this page easier to use or read?** Yea for sure like it is, I would need to search deeper into it. Get health card, trouble pay, refill and tracking. To be honest I don’t know how your search thing works. Usually when you search something it would be on the top. It is not on the top I guess.
-   **Expect the link you say there to be at the top**: I would think so. If I type how to get prescription and it said the id card, I wouldn’t read all the way.
-   **Would you prefer to filter or refine search results in some way?** By location? Category? Yeah, that may be better since what you are searching for, the search bars purpose is to provide a result. If you don’t get a result then what’s the purpose.
-   **How would you filter:** I guess I would say, prescriptions it is a word that is straightforward. If I typed that I would hope the results were for prescriptions only.
-   **If it were at the top would you still filter:** categories I would say.
-   Even if it were at the top: Yeah, I would still want the filter. It is not just about the prescriptions but I would say giving more options would be beneficial. The answer may not be the one I was looking for it may be something on the bottom that would be beneficial.,
-   **What’s a category you would expect:** like if you are searching for medical, prescription, how to get ID card, or whatever it may be.
-   **How many results do you typically look at?** 2-3 then I would be like what is this and not search. A lot of sites when you search, it doesn’t provide direct answers and then you would just go to google because they have a better system.
-   **More accurate from google:** yes, better than other search bars. It is not as accurate as I am searching and if someone is in a hurry they would be frustrated if it doesn’t pop up. I think it would be beneficial if one of the first thing was what you searched for, it depending on how you put it in but I don’t know how to refine it better than how to get prescriptions.

-   **If you were looking for a specific form, form 10-10EZ, how would you locate it on this site?** I would use the search bar, 1010ez. I don’t think the change of address has anything to do with the 1010ez. I don’t know what a 1010ez is but I would expect the form to come up so I could click it. There are AFI’s and if you type it in then it pops up the instructions. This makes me work more to get the forms, now I have to go to another site to get it. But if I go to google it may just come up.
-   **First result and click it:** yeah and then the form would be there. It is what I would need and if I am busy I just want the form ready to go so I can edit it and send it to whoever needs it.
-   **If you were looking for a VA facility near you, how would you locate it on the site?** I didn’t even know that was available right there. Okay.  Oh okay I think I used this before. I go to Goldsboro.

**Post-task Interview**

-   **What was your overall experience with VA search like?** So you know things like this I can find it easier if I had this not on my phone but on my PC I would have just looked at it instead of scrolling. Overall it is pretty good. I can see what I need to but a few things need to be improved.
-   **What worked well?** It is for the benefits, so I can differently see what benefits I can get. Of course you may need to dig in but I guess it may be better to have on the front page what veterans could get if they have certain percentages or just as a veteran for serving. In the front so you don’t need to scroll to find it.
-   **Like personalized experience:** Yes, because it is for the veterans. I fill like veterans can age form young to very old. Some people may not have good internet and only be able to see the front page, they can go from there if there are links.
-   **Would you change anything?** The search bar, the search for the questions isn’t directing you to the questions
-   [**If there is time] Is there another site that you've used to search for something that you think worked well? Can you go to that site? - What worked well?** - What didn't work well? Like eBenefits maybe. To be honest I don’t think I searched in here but I can go into it and look at whatever I needed to look.
-   **You mentioned Google:** As part of people use Google, we’ve gotten use to Google. If I would search how to get prescriptions for va. Like that, I searched and there’s something that you can read right away
-   **Like you don’t need to click:** Right. I am not being lazy but I think in a search bar you would rather the answer then having to click into a site then another site.
-   **Anything about their page you don’t like:** Of course, the ads, sometimes. But other than the ads, it has what it has and I am sure they need to earn their money too. Other than that, no.
-   **Wanting filters, what about the filters on google:** These, absolutely. For instance videos, sometimes they have instructional videos and of course if I am looking for an image that helps, maps help get to my house to the VA, it pops up right away. It is ready quicker and you don’t have to think much, you can just go right to it.

Those are all the questions that I had for you today.

-   **Do you have any questions for me or is there anything else that you think that I should know?** I am just trying to figure out what to do with my appeal process.

We really appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us today. Your feedback is so helpful to us as we continue to work on the site and make sure it works well for Veterans.
