**Conversation Guide for Search & Discovery**

-   **I have started recording. I'd like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record my screen and audio as we talk today?** Yes.

**Warmup**

-   **To get us started can you tell me briefly about your service history?** I served 8 year in the air force, 5 enlisted and 3 as an office. I am 100% disabled; I work in the contracting section from 2008 to 2013 when I retired. Since 2014 I have been working with non-profits helping veterans get resources they need.
-   **Are you currently receiving benefits from the VA?** I am 100 percent so I get compensation and VA healthcare.

**Past Experience**

-   **What’s been your overall experience in looking for veteran-related information?** We are in the negative numbers, when trying to find the information. In the military I was in intelligence so I knew all of the regs and when the CO needed it they would call on me to find it. The VA website is not clear, it is like trying to find mouse in a bail of hay.
-   **Can you tell me about a time recently when you were looking for information related to federal VA benefits?** Most recent was when I am getting my covid shot and the websites don’t have the information and the doctor sent me to the site. When trying to get VocRehab there wasn’t information. In the last few months I wanted to get the VA home loan program, the VA loan assumptions are done and the mortgage company were violating it and it was difficult to get ahold of the VA IG.
-   **How else:** google but it included the va.gov so it only googles within the VA website. I don’t go to VA and hit the search feature.
-   **Were you successful in finding what you were looking for?** No
-   **What could have been better about this experience?** Finding the answers. You know what I really think, the majority of veterans are over 50 and don’t use the computer. I think each VA should have an answer person that has the answer. I used to be the answer person and if they contacted me and I replaced me or her they would be the answer person. Having one person which it is their job, is something that companies just don’t do anymore. In the military it is normally the commanders secretary. Each VA should have a rally. I know that defeats the purpose of the website but the AI could be the answer person. I am a tech nerd so I  always try to find the answer for them.

**VA.gov screen sharing**

-   I’m going to send you a link and ask that you share your screen.
-   Send link to [http://staging.va.gov](http://staging.va.gov/)
-   **Can you show me how you would go about finding more information about [education] benefits?** This is the stage site. Sure, I would click search and lets look for the VA home loan program.
-   [When participant uses search and they are on the search results page:]

-   **Walk me through what you’re seeing on this page:**  I see 317 results which tell me that it most likely didn’t prioritize that this is a fee. I see how it is highlighting it VA. I am a veteran what does this have to do with me, circulars, oh hey here’s the book. It should come up with chapter 5 not one. Oh my god, this is a PDF on it. Did you make the search feature if so this was non optionable. The phrase VA loan assumption, this hurts. Okay now it hurts if I go back to my original search. If I go to this pamphlet which is a word doc. 26-7. So I look that. And here’s lenders handbook to a website. I was wrong on the chapter, my apologizes. So somewhere in here is the phrase loan assumption programs o the fact the search came up with nothing means the search tablet has not went through the PFD. That means they search should go through the handbook for the phrase. We used to have to index our tables and it would take days because of the amount of information. When was it made, it seems to me that this pamphlet which is probably form 2006, it is probably not made within the last year so it should be indexed.
-   **What could make this page easier to use or read?** Oh over here on the left, is it Bing that does the percentage match. Circular 26-20, I don’t know how that matches my search because it is just searching va and 26. The leader would have 100 % match. I have found that the computer percentage match is very helpful for individuals that are not computer savvy. If I get one at 80 and all the rest are 35, I would change the search. That is not a hard widget to add.
-   **Anything else:** AI I am a fan of big buttons you can click for help, only if I will kill myself. That’s great don’t get rid of that. I know that people can use the web but if 2/3 is over 50 years old, maybe a link that says tips on bettering the search. Easily read on how to use “” or the + _ signs. If I redid the search would I still get 317 if I add circular. No its 117 but I still get ones with circular. The tips thing would be great, the score would be great, and a get help button.
-   **Would you prefer to filter or refine search results in some way? By location? Category?** Kayak and eBay have a good filter search but google and Bing only were good for news. Maybe a filter that filters it into a major topic like home loan, educations. All of this seems to be under home loan so that wouldn’t help me here.
- *He has yet to find a filter that is good- however Kayak and Ebay have really good filters for their purpose.  He likes the filter (within the last 7 days)for news. He could see a big category filter. (home loans, applications, etc. )*
-   **How many results do you typically look at?** I never look at the second page. I can glance and see down here that it is useless and it is easier to start a new search instead of going through all of the pages.

-   **If you were looking for a specific form, form 10-10EZ, how would you locate it on this site?** Right there on find a VA form button. I mentioned Covid 19 and here it is. Okay 1010EZ. Um is that this one? That’s the 101. Hey there, it is in Spanish. Why is the Spanish one before the English on. Oh it is Alphabetical. It was number 5 on my return.
- *1010ez. (he found it in Spanish. First.. why is the Spanish one before the English one. It was number 5 in the results.*
-   **If you were looking for a VA facility near you, how would you locate it on the site?** Searches VA facilities. On this site I wouldn’t. I can type it in but that’s because I know where it is. I used to live in Oakland CA. so if I type in Oakland, oh look at this I found it. I like if you look for a city the clinics are the first ones to popup.
- *He went to search bar – didn’t see the find a form facility. He didn’t find one and said that he wouldn’t come here to search for facilities.*
-   **First time using it:** No.

**Post-task Interview**

-   **What was your overall experience with VA search like?** From a user experience model the layout is great, the location. All of that is fine but the indexing is poor. The search feature seems to be good for simple things but not difficult things. Finding a VA home loan assumption program was not well.
- *from a user experience model the layout is great. Where the location is. The indexing was poor and the search feature seems to be good for simple things but not for very detailed things*
-   **Would you change anything?** Yes, but we asked and answered right. I wouldn’t add anything else.
-   **[If there is time] Is there another site that you've used to search for something that you think worked well? Can you go to that site?** Kayak is awesome. Next week is valentine’s day and I am supposed to go stay somewhere. I like the control menu and the mouse overs. Let's say the wife and I want to run off to Raleigh. I don’t have to click into the calendar that’s a nice change. I don’t be too terrible on the filters, we need the pet, 4 star and up because I want to keep my wife around. The start over here is the first thing I look at. I haven’t fully looked at the picture, the blue box is the first thing I looked at. Wait 90 bucks well I wont let you see me put in my card information. As you scroll down, I don’t look at the process. I look at the scores. I like how the filters how I can get rid of the ones I don’t care about and open the ones I do. This is my best example. I used to travel 150K miles a year and this site have always been great with the filter.

- *Kayak is awesome. For example next week is valentines day and he is supposed to go stay somewhere. He loves how it has a control bar on the left with mouse overs.  HE searched for Raleigh.. adds the city, airport.. specific locations etc. He doesn’t have to click into the calendar to ad the dates he wants.*

- *HE used filters a lot.. pets, 4* and up.. and he likes the 9.1 score that is the first thing he looks at! He said I like how the filters collapse and he can get rid of the filters he doesn’t care about and open up the filters he does care about.*

- *He wanted to be able to figure out how to get rid of filters. Which they offer.*

- *He said it might be nice if he were signed in if he could set a map preference.*

- *He liked that the things on the left popped up to the top to make it easier to view.*

- *Improvements: Some filters , holy cow. I was going to say that I can get rid of filters but they already did that. I am wondering how they coded that. If we are just looking at the search feature no. if you can set up preferences that’s great because I drive a lot. You notice everything on the left went to the top, this is just a really good user experience here.*
- *Other sites you like their search: Not that I can think of off the top of my head.*

**Those are all the questions that I had for you today.**

-   **Do you have any questions for me or is there anything else that you think that I should know?** AI is cheap nowadays and each year is it cheaper and cheaper. Not really, just having to work for tech companies and contractors. The biggest challenges with the coders and UX. Know the audience and for most of the veterans they have family look at it and they don’t know the words. This is really small print. IF I increase the print will it minimize the things I can see. They need to find the answer within 30 second or they will give up. The VA is already frustrating.

- *AI is cheap now a days – every day it is getting cheaper*

- *Having worked for a software company. The biggest challenge that he had  was that people needed to “know the audience” (likely a family member who doesn’t know the words) or (a veteran who doesn’t know how to use computers very well)*

- *“Users need to be able to find an answer in under 30 seconds or they are going to be fed up”*

-   **Other comments:** no ma’am.

We really appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us today. Your feedback is so helpful to us as we continue to work on the site and make sure it works well for Veterans.


**Notetaker Key Takeaways**

- *He represented a subset of the population who is experienced in navigating online and looking for information in various ways.*

- *He doesn’t use va.gov search much; even went as far as saying, goes the va even have a search experience on the site? It definitely isn’t very prominent for him and could be highlighted more for him.*

- *Overall, he said he didn’t like filters but then raved about then on the kayak site. IF done right filters will be a tremendous enhancement to the veteran experience.*

- *He also highlighted the need for clarity on va.gov saying that many people searching are family members or caregivers who really don’t know all of the “right” terms. I interpreted that to mean things like form names and acronyms should be spelt out to enhance clarity and confidence in the results that are being reviewed.*

- *He didn’t want to have to look at many results. He never goes beyond the first page and even said that if you can’t find the information you want in under 30 seconds then it isn’t a good search experience.*

- *He highlighted the need for stronger indexing and content metadata – saying that results didn’t show up when he anticipated that they would etc.*
