# 4/22/24 Content community of practice call 

##  Introductions of new  and new-to-this-call team members
- Steven Tarlow (new-ish) - Content/technical writer/communications person for the Veterans Support team. He enjoys being connected with the group and knowing what's going on. His team's first newsletter will be going live this sprint! The first newsletter is an introduction and the roles of people on the team and what they do. In the future, there are plans to talk more about the communication around ID.me and sign-in areas. There will be more of that as they get farther into the transition with Login.gov and ID.me. He'll drop a sign-in link for the newsletter when it's ready. 

## Style guide and design system updates (Megan, Laura, and Danielle)
- There are new updates in the Patterns part of VADS under "Content considerations" to reflect labels, hint text, and error messages. These have been updated on: Addresses, emails, phone number, Social security and VA file number, and dates. 
- There's a new word in the word list "contention" that we use internally a lot, but we should avoid in content directly for Veterans. 
- Danielle's been working with NCP to help build out our health section in the content style guide, adding more guidance to reflect person-first language and empathetic health content. 
- Danielle's woorking with Office of Mental Health and Suicide Prevention on destigmatizing language around substance abuse. 
- This work on the health section is especially important because the style guide is helpful beyond just content for VA.gov and online tools--but also for VA as a whole. 
- Laura is working on edits within the Design system for team's working on the form introduction page -- this is the first part of the form itself. Laura has some updates that are in a queue to go live in VADS. The updates are for forms that are applications and forms that aren't applications.
- We're working to add updates to the sign-in widgets that sit at the beginning of forms or tools that require authentication and verification. That is coming up and hopefully will be updated in VADS soon!
- There's a core group of identity people who are coming together to help create this language and work on the transition for the sign-in. A big part of this work is on widgets across the board to make sure they're consistent and as helpful as possible. It's a big group team effort!

## VA.gov content updates (Danielle)
- The partner request form is a centralized way to have VA partners from NCA, VBA, and VHA request edits and updates to the modernized site.
- There have been 9 partner requests so far in April. This is for existing content on our site that we try to keep up to date, and we rely on our close partnerships to help us with this. Sometimes we notice things, and sometimes this is how SMEs point out changes that need to happen (in theory). This is an effort to help move away from emails and other ways that teams ping us.

## Recent updates
- We've launched our Get help from a VA accredited rep landing page and Find a rep page. The redirects are in place!
- We've brought in more decision review content into the VA.gov modernized experience: Clinical appeals, Family caregiver program appeals, (something else?).
- There are many other larger updates in progress: Family member hub, Migration of education content, community care family member content, the rolling audit to assess quality of existing pages (In the education section)
- We're working on updating pages based on what we see in Medalia feedback. We're not seeing a ton of specific feedback that requires updates, but there's some helpful feedback. For example: we're clarifying the urgent care assistance card
- Danielle asked if there are any other team updates that people want to share:
-   Rebecca Ferguson: We're launching new experience standards on the governance team. This will be in VADS and not just on the Platform side. There will be an announcement for that! Danielle asked if Rebecca wants to talk through some of those for the next meeting. 
-   Misty: We made a content detail model for our unified appointment experience team. Their design team lead asked for a content library of all the copy across all the experiences. The first phase is having all the teams get their copy in a single place, just so we can see where the differences are. It would be ideal in the future to be able to identify places that could have reusable content and standardize the ways we say the same thing.
- "Many carts moving in parallel" is OK for how we approach getting over the various hurdles we come across! 

## Discussion: Content source of truth methods 
Discussion about when each one works best and the different methods people use
- Question: How are we tracking changes in Figma?
-   Laura: We generally leave comments in Figma when we make changes. Sometimes we'll present Figma to SMEs next to Sharepoint which has the line edits. 
-   Misty: Within the mobile team, we were told not to use Figma as a SOT because it can get outdated quickly. Within Ad hoc, we use something called "branching." It's like a suggested edit that needs to be approved by someone. But I don't believe the VA instance of Figma has this. We have working documents of Figma files. And we have what's shipped. One problem is that a lot of our shipping documents have changed. In the mobile app, we have a lot of different variations and paths. Our designers don't want to mock up every single path, so sometimes I find myself updating content in different places outside of Figma.
-   Danielle: Misty, you're a great team to watch for this reason!
-   Challenges with Figma as a content SOT: It's harder to understand the scope of work by looking at Figma designs. It's easier to look at a content doc and more accurately gauge the amount of work. We can't always control design files as strictly as we control Sharepoint docs.
-   Question for Rebecca: When you're reviewing finalized content as a SOT, what format do you like to look at? Teams ask us to put comments directly in the Figma files rather than Github tickets. We've tabled that, because there's less control over what happens to our comments. In general, we look at whatever teams give us (whether it's Figma, sharepoint, etc.) at the mid-point review. At staging, it's in its final state, so it should be functional.
-   Question for Misty: What makes accessibility annotations better or worse in Figma vs Sharepoint? I guess nothing really. Sharepoint could work just as well.
-   [We have more comments and questions in this Mural](https://app.mural.co/t/departmentofveteransaffairs9999/m/departmentofveteransaffairs9999/1710782150410/e4b4ae51aee0208bccdeaccdeeb83bd5d022190f?sender=ud96213c0f6200ee8fda12457). And people can still add their thoughts and experiences. 
-   Next steps: Danielle would love to get a couple of volunteers and have a small connection group around all the different points of the process. Having an engineer, designer, and content person tracking a project from start to finish and really documenting the experience -- what worked, what didn't, where we decided how to go in terms of content SOT. If you have a form or project starting and you'd like to volunteer to document the journey, that would be really helpful! 
