**Conversation Guide: Emergency Care Mashup**

**START RECORDING TO THE CLOUD**

-   **I have started recording.** I'd like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record my screen the audio as we talk today?"

**Warm-up Questions - 5 minutes**

-   Can you tell me a little about your service history?

 *Spent time in Missouri and Texas before being deployed to Germany. Was sent back to Texas and then back to Germany again* After that I was out for about 17 months in the Army reserves and then served again until the end of the Gulf War.

-   Have you ever experienced what you thought was an emergency that required a visit to any facility?

Just a medical facility.

-   If yes: can you tell me about your experience there?

I went to the Army hospital emergency room. That's the only medical emergency that I can think of from back then.

-   If yes: what kind of facility was it (VA/non-VA)?

Non-VA hospital. The first time I went to a VA hospital was after I got out of the Gulf War. My wife convinced me to go, and she even took me there herself. That was a facility in North Chicago.

-   If yes: can you tell me why you decided on that particular location?

I can't remember why we wended up in North Chicago. They had an inpatient drug and alcohol center that they had me go to first, because I was involved in that as well -- I had to complete a program with them before they switched me over. I'm not sure why we ended up in North Chicago though.

-   How did you find out about that specific location?

We are in the area, so it was close. We didn't really know of another place other than Crown Point, but that's a clinic. We just went to North Chicago because we knew it would have what we needed.

-   Can you tell me about your understanding of your VA benefit coverage in the event of an emergency?

I was under the impression...just like any other young, dumb, innocent teenager, that the VA will cover you for the rest of your life...I never really thought about it until afterwards, but it doesn't really work like that; you don't just earn it, you have to prove that you need it. You have to qualify for certain care and there's a lot more that goes into getting it.

**Usability Test - 30 minutes**

**PROTOTYPE: Facility Locator**

**Questions:**

-   Are you familiar with, or have you ever used VA.gov's location finder?

No, I have never used it, but I have seen it on the VA webpage. I already know where all of the locations are.

-   If no: how do you go about finding information about VA locations?

I have friends who served before and also my wife looked up some of the locations, so I didn't have to go online at all, it was all word of mouth.

-   Yes/no: Do you see yourself using this tool in the future? (Why might you use it?)

If I moved to a new location, then probably yes.

**Scenario**

**Directions:**

I'm going to walk us through a scenario and have you perform some tasks. Again, this is only a prototype so some things might not work as expected. As you work through the tasks I'd like you to think out loud and narrate what you see and what goes through your mind.

In this scenario, let's imagine that you live near Denver, CO, and that in the past, you experienced a situation where you needed immediate care. You are coming to this site because you would like to learn more about the locations closest to you, should you experience something similar in the future.

**Task 1**

**PROTOTYPE: Open-ended search results**

**Questions:**

I would like you to perform a search for locations that would be relevant to you.

*Began by clicking, "Choose a facility type" and selecting "Urgent Care" ... then selected "All urgent care" from the Service Type dropdown* I chose Urgent Care because you didn't specify which one I needed, so I would default to Urgent Care to cover a cut, or bleeding, or anything else. I would also choose the "In-Network emergency care option." The All in-network option doesn't work so depending on what you want to do you would choose another. If you want the VA then you would choose that one but if not then I would go for the All in-network option. *Chose the VA option*

Then it gives you results. You would look for the locations from here -- I assume the dots are the location. It also has them listed on the side with the phone number, so you could call and get directed from there, or you could get directions from here and then go in person. I would probably just call the number.

-   (Point out steps, probe through process):
-   Can you walk me through that process?
-   Tell me about what you see in this results list.
-   (Do they notice 'urgent' vs 'emergency'? Why did they chose one over the other?)

Based on the results of your search, what is important to you when choosing a location from this list?

Let's say you want to search for [All / VA / Community locations] in your area.

I would go back and select the "All in-network" option. I know realize that I messed up earlier, it is not the red dot that shows the location, it is the A, B, C letters instead. You would decide which is closer and then it gives you the phone number to call.

-   (Point out steps, probe through process):
-   Can you walk me through the process?
-   Tell me about what you see in this results list.
-   Does the distinction between this results list, and the previous results list, matter to you?
-   (Do they notice 'urgent' vs 'emergency'? Why did they chose one over the other?)

**Task 2**

**PROTOTYPE: User understands the different search options**

**Questions:**

What does the distinction between 'Facility type' and 'Service type' mean to you?

Facility type means what do they actually have at the facility. What do they service and what do they specialize in. Some locations may not be able to do X-Rays or some may not have mental health care -- it just depends on what you're looking for.

For this task, under the 'Facility type' menu, I'd like you to choose 'In-network emergency care'.

-   When you see the phrase 'In-network', what does that mean to you?

It tells you if it is VA-approved.

-   When you see "emergency care", what kinds of facilities might you expect to see in the search results?

It's a place that treats cuts or wounds, it has mental health care, or any related health problems that you would consider an emergency -- a matter of life or death.

The distinction between urgent care and emergency care is important. Urgent care means that you need care in that moment, but it is not a matter of life or death. Emergency care is a matter of life or death. You can go to urgent care for things that are bothering you, but that you won't die from. Emergency care could be if you had a limb cut off and you're bleeding out.

Open the 'Service type' menu, talk me through what the different options mean to you.

-   Does the distinction between 'Service type' options matter to you?

Service type is for whether it is a VA facility or if it is a VA-approved location that is part of the VA network.

-   Based on the search results, how would you learn more about your benefits?

I would just call and ask for the patient advocate. They know what is offered at the center.

**Post-Task Interview - 5 minutes**

I have just a couple more questions before we finish up:

-   If you could change one thing on this site to make searching for locations easier, what would that be? (If anything):

So far, everything that you have on here works. It is self-explanatory.

There should be an option that says, "Learn more about what the facility offers" so that you can click on that to learn more. If you're in an emergency, you can review what they offer to know if they could help you so that you know who to call/where to go.

-   Any questions for me?

How would I learn more about my benefits and the types of care that a facility offers on this page? I don't see a way to do that.
