**I have started recording.** I'd like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record my screen the audio as we talk today?" No a problem.

Warm-up Questions - 5 minutes
-----------------------------

-   Can you tell me a little about your service history? Sure, I had an uneventful six years. It was right before dessert storm so it was non-active for wars. It was peacetime service. I was stationed in Germany and then I got to travel all over. I spent two years at the air force headquarters base.
-   Have you ever experienced something that required an immediate visit to any health facility? Yes, I was playing squadron softball and was tackled.  at home plate. I had a major fracture of my left leg and wrist so I went in for major surgery with plates and screws placed in my leg.

-   If yes: can you tell me about your experience at that location? It was minimal stuff at the base so I was transferred to base. They didn't have the services at the base to do it because I needed emergency surgery. I busted the large bone at a 45 angle and it rotated. Then folded my wrist in half. It was pretty ugly. The base did okay, they handled the pain and knocked me out. The next thing I remember is waking up in the hospital. Later the hospital did a close reduction until after the surgery because it was painful. The base did what they could but it wasn't a full facility.
-   Closest: yes. The hospital commander was at the ball game and told me to just hold on because I was hurting. He got rough and went into commander mode to get me to calm down. The care I got at the base was okay, they did what they could, they transferred me downtown then to the army center in CO. it was the closest military facility they could put me into that could deal with my injury.
-   Can you tell me about your understanding of your VA benefit coverage in the event of an emergency? At that time or now. Now, I have been in because I was diagnosed with an illness  and tracked it to 83. I am 100 percent service connected so when I need the emergency room now I can do that because I am 100 percent. They don't have an issue with me going, they've always handled everything. If you do what you are supposed to do like filling it out. If you don't do it properly you can get bills in the mail and turns into a mess to get it fixed. I have seen my brother go through issues because of it. he lives outside of the 50 mile radius. Its not always easy, sometimes its on the hospital and it can create problems. If the veteran and the hospital do the correct paperwork it isn't an issue.
-   How would you learn: I get online and find what I can. Then I turn around and call the hospital and talk to the department for benefits and get good feedback so I can do what I need. As a veteran you think you can do this and they will take care of you. If you don't catch it right, you will get in trouble with creditors because you think it is handled but instead of dealing with you they send it to the credit companies when you think it was taken care of. I happen to have a wonderful wife that makes sure we are taken care of in that area and he helps my brother sometimes. The average veteran could end up in a lot of trouble.

Usability Test - 30 minutes
---------------------------

### PROTOTYPE: Facility Locator

#### Questions:

-   Are you familiar with, or have you ever used VA.gov's location finder? No, other than a few times I have been asked to do this with other programs.

-   If no: how do you go about finding information about VA locations? Well I go to the organ site because I go to that one. This is pretty cool.
-   Just go directly to the site: Yes. Previous knowledge. We have a few different facilities here now that we didn't have before. Most of my stuff is through the organ facilities so that's what I would search for is by putting in the postal code. It looks like this works the same way.

### Scenario

In this scenario, let's imagine that you live near Denver, CO, and that in the past, you experienced a situation where you needed immediate care. You are coming to this site because you would like to learn more about the locations closest to you, should you experience something similar in the future.

### Task 1

#### PROTOTYPE: Open-ended search results

#### Questions:

I would like you to perform a search for locations that would be relevant to you.

-   (Can you walk me through that process?): for emergency services. Urgent care, va urgent care.
-   Why urgent care instead of another one: What I want to find out is where I can go. If I need to go to a facility it is normal urgent care, so who can I get to the fastest. If I need to get there it ahs to be the closest and that can handle this. VA urgent care handles 100 percent of my medical so I am drawn to that. I was trying to decide what is available with my community first before using that. I live further away form the facilities so I need to know who I can go to. The closest is 30 miles so if it is an emergency situation I need to figure out which is closest. I think it would be that way right there. I would look for urgent care.
-   Facility type: For me is it a hospital, urgent care, is it va healthcare, community care, or private health. That's what I would be looking for under there. That's how I process it. I look for healthcare but then I need to know if it is local, with va, or private. When we look at private then I need to pay out of pocket.
-   In-network: To me in-network mean they have an agreement with the va to process through veterans if they are outside of the 50 mile radius. Therefore I fall into is this facility in network, is it part of the va structure or am I paying out of pocket.
-   emergency care: I would be looking at urgent care centers or hospital would be the two things that I think would be associated.
-   (Do they notice 'urgent' vs 'emergency'? Why did they chose one over the other?): Urgent care would be sometimes I could walk into and have it dealt with in an office environment emergency care is me not having a choice and going to an ER situation.
-   Service type: It would be is it provided services. Is it urgent care is it emergency care, is it va facility. For service type is it an emergency room, basically urgent care, what type of care or services that are provided at that location is how I would look at it. I was surprised there was only three types, there wasn't much definition. I would want to know if it is urgent care, va, or local hospital.  Here the va hospital is over 50 miles away, then we have the local clinic and another clinic that is 30 minutes away. It isn't a full hospital
-   Does the wording matter to you: Yes, all in network,. Is that in va network or what does it mean. Is it all facilities that are in the va network, I see va emergency  care, is that the hospital or all locations that will take care of it. I am trying to understand which one to click what jumps out is va emergency care. I could go there and they would take care of me.
-   Tell me about what you see in this results list: oh wow, cool. (reading page) that's pretty good. I see in network stuff. To me the hospital is open 24/7 as far as emergency care goes. Then you get to the centers with limited services and hours like the clinics here. It puts all of the infomration right there. That is good.
-   What is most important to you: again depending on what I am after. Like you were saying this is a follow up to make sure I have places I can go to if it happens again. It is me researching so I know where things. You are given the locations on the map, numbers, and direction on how to get there. This is awesome.
-   How to learn more about benefits: As far as benefits, I don't know how to figure it out. I would call the number to talk to the person to see if they handle va stuff. In network emergency  care benefits, I could look at the but does it have the veteran information. Okay. That is perfect.
-   First saw it, what did you think: I just thought it was infomration, nothing that would give me information. It doesn't jump out at me.
-   Thoughts: It is nice that you have down through and laid it out for what a person needs to do as far as getting care then worrying about financial stuff later. For some of us, I am not in the situation before. I had limited income before so that is something we look at before going to a local person. Sometimes you stop worrying about the person and injury because it is a hard choice. It says notice va immediately. Some veterans don't know how fast the va needs to know so it will be covered. It says let them know immediately. This makes it good.
-   Changes to facility types: Is there drop downs under each one or does it go straight to it. what does va health mean. Okay, right on.  The community pharmacy stuff I have ran into issues getting it filled. Sometimes they wouldn't accept the va piece so it is nice to know which ones are in va network. Sometimes you don't have that option. For me I have 1 pharmacy in my area I can go to and if they wont take it then I have to pay out of pocket and try to get reimbursed from the VA. VA cemeteries is interesting. It is a well rounded list. Does the centers show it in the area.

Post-Task Interview - 5 minutes
-------------------------------

I have just a couple more questions before we finish up:

-   If you could change one thing on this site to make searching for locations easier, what would that be? (If anything):
-   Is there anything that I haven't asked you that you think that I should know?
-   Any questions for me? We like to travel when we can. Of course not now with the pandemic. I noticed we have Canada on here, will it have information. Will I be ale to sue this to find places in Mexico or Canada if I am there. If I cant then why am I looking at everything and not just the United states.
