**I have started recording.** I'd like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record my screen the audio as we talk today?"

Warm-up Questions - 5 minutes
-----------------------------

-   Can you tell me a little about your service history?

I was in the Air Force for 6 years -- in Afghanistan and Iraq.

-   Have you ever experienced something that required an immediate visit to any health facility?

Yes, I had to go to the VA's ER. I had kidney stones and had to go there at about 2am. I went to the Fargo VA, luckily, I don't live far so that was nice. I went to the front counter and got checked in -- they took me right back and asked me some questions. They were able to figure out that it was kidney stones pretty quickly.

-   If yes: what kind of facility was it (VA/non-VA)?

VA Hospital

-   If yes: can you tell me why you decided on that particular location?

It's the closest and I figured I might as well go to the VA hospital anyway.

-   If yes: How did you find out about that specific location?

I work at the VA.

-   Can you tell me about your understanding of your VA benefit coverage in the event of an emergency?

I know we can go to the emergency room -- I also have private insurance too. I have a high disability rating so almost everything is covered, but if anything isn't then they will just bill my private insurance.

Usability Test - 30 minutes
---------------------------

I'm going to share a link to a prototype here in the zoom chat window for you to click on. Then I'll want you to share your screen so that I can follow along and see what you see. Are you already familiar with the process of sharing your screen?


Please make sure to close any email, or other personal information you may have open in any tabs, before sharing your screen.

### PROTOTYPE: Facility Locator

#### Questions:

-   Are you familiar with, or have you ever used VA.gov's location finder?

No, I have only been to 3 or 4 VA locations. I was stationed in CA and I was right by those locations and then I moved back to Fargo where I already knew where the locations were.

-   If yes: how long ago, what were you doing? What was that experience like?
-   If no: how do you go about finding information about VA locations?

I believe I was given a pamphlet. I worked with someone who told me about it too. Word of mouth - I didn't have a computer in those times.

If I had to find a location in the future, I would just go to the VAs website.

-   Yes/no: Why might, or why might not, you use this tool in the future?

### Scenario

In this scenario, let's imagine that you live near Denver, CO, and that in the past, you experienced a situation where you needed immediate care. You are coming to this site because you would like to learn more about the locations closest to you, should you experience something similar in the future.

### Task 1

#### PROTOTYPE: Open-ended search results

#### Questions:

I would like you to perform a search for locations that would be relevant to you.

*clicked Facility Type* and chose Urgent Care, then clicked search* *Did not see emergency care* If I were looking for immediate care, I would look for Urgent Care. I know some VAs don't have urgent care, they just have a small clinic, so I would check to be sure that they have urgent care available first. If Urgent Care didn't work then I would probably click Community providers (in VAs network), because that would be covered. I would also choose that to see if other community care providers are covered through the VA before traveling farther to another VA location.

*P was told to search for in-network emergency care and All in-network emergency care*

I see two locations, *noticed that they could scroll farther down for other locations*. Its good that it says limited service and hours so that you know. The other two look like they are open 24-7, it doesn't say that but that's what I'd expect. It also says that the top two are in-network so that's good. This would tell me that if I were too far from a VA hospital then I could go to one of the top two.

-   (Can you walk me through that process?)
-   Tell me about what you see in this results list.
-   (Do they notice 'urgent' vs 'emergency'? Why did they chose one over the other?)

Based on the results of your search, what is important to you when choosing a location from this list?

Let's say you want to search for [All / VA / Community locations] in your area.

-   (Can you walk me through the process?)
-   Tell me about what you see in this results list.
-   Does the distinction between this results list, and the previous results list, matter to you?
-   (Do they notice 'urgent' vs 'emergency'? Why did they chose one over the other?)

### Task 2

#### PROTOTYPE: User understands the specific search options

#### Questions:

When you see the search heading, 'Facility type', what does this mean to you?

For this task, under the 'Facility type' menu, I'd like you to choose 'In-network emergency care'.

-   When you see the phrase 'In-network', what does that mean to you?

I would think that they accept VA coverage, and they have access to your medical records.

-   When you see "emergency care", what kinds of facilities might you expect to see in the search results?

I would expect to see the Fargo VA -- the bigger hospitals that are in-network.

-   [Open 'Facility type' menu] When you see "urgent care" what kinds of facilities might you expect to see in the search results?

I would expect to see hospitals that are in the VAs network, I don't know if there would be locations listed that are not in the network. For the Denver area, I don't know if Veterans would want to see a non-VA center that is close to a Veteran -- they may want to see that. I would definitely want to know what the closest hospital is, because if someone is in an emergency then they may want to just go to the closest place regardless of it is in the VAs network.

-   What the distinction between 'emergency care' and 'urgent care' mean to you?

Urgent care would be any hospital, but they may or may not be VA affiliated. I would except the other to be in network and you could use VA coverage for billing.

When you see the search heading, 'Service type', what does this mean to you?

It lets you know that some locations are VA hospitals and others are just community providers that are affiliated.

[Set the 'Facility type' to 'In-network emergency care']

Open the 'Service type' menu, talk me through what the different options mean to you.

-   Does the distinction between 'Service type' options matter to you?
-   What matters about the distinction?

[Click search button]

Tell me what you see

Based on your search results, if you wanted to learn more about your benefits at a particular location, how might you do that?

I would click on the facility type dropdown and then I would click on VA benefits. There are a lot of options in the service type dropdown to choose from. Its nice to see that those are being added in there. The blue info notice means that I can go there, and they will accept your Veterans insurance.

[Point out things they don't notice]

(Tell me what you see) (Do you notice anything else?) (I'd like to point out something specific)

-   Emergency alert
-   Blue info notice in results
-   Map markers
-   etc.

Post-Task Interview - 5 minutes
-------------------------------

I have just a couple more questions before we finish up:

-   If you could change one thing on this site to make searching for locations easier, what would that be? (If anything):

I would try to get the hours added in the search results -- but I know that is hard to do. You just have to call.

I would have emergency care and urgent care in red text or italics so that it draws attention to the fact that it is emergency care.

*thought the search bars and process to search worked well*

-   Is there anything that I haven't asked you that you think that I should know?

It may be good to add mental health under the Facility Type dropdown. I know you can't get that help at a clinic, but sometimes you can. It would be helpful to know where you could go for that.

-   Any questions for me?
