**I have started recording.** I'd like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record my screen the audio as we talk today?"

Warm-up Questions - 5 minutes
-----------------------------

-   Can you tell me a little about your service history?

I was in the Army from 1969 to 1971. I was in Vietnam for a year.

-   Have you ever experienced something that required an immediate visit to any health facility?

VA or otherwise? I've bee to the hospital 4 times for depression -- twice for an emergency situation, but I went to the ER for all 4.

Most recently in December of 2019, I went to the VA for about 2 weeks. I had to go to a second location because the other was overbooked. I'm most familiar with the first location -- I go there for routine needs. I found out about that center in 2004 when I was hospitalized there. I had actually found them prior to that via word of mouth from other Veterans.

-   If yes: can you tell me about your experience at that location? [Looking for the facility itself, not necessarily procedures they went through]
-   If yes: what kind of facility was it (VA/non-VA)?
-   If yes: can you tell me why you decided on that particular location?
-   If yes: How did you find out about that specific location?
-   Can you tell me about your understanding of your VA benefit coverage in the event of an emergency?

I have Medicare part A and B -- when I go to any doctor it doesn't cost anything. The same applies with the VA, there's no cost, everything is covered.

Usability Test - 30 minutes
---------------------------

I'm going to share a link to a prototype here in the zoom chat window for you to click on. Then I'll want you to share your screen so that I can follow along and see what you see. Are you already familiar with the process of sharing your screen?

-   [If no: ask if they're on a laptop/desktop/mobile - then share Kristen's slides]

Please make sure to close any email, or other personal information you may have open in any tabs, before sharing your screen.

### PROTOTYPE: Facility Locator

#### Questions:

-   Are you familiar with, or have you ever used VA.gov's location finder?

-   If yes: how long ago, what were you doing? What was that experience like?
-   If no: how do you go about finding information about VA locations?

I would Google VA.gov and go from there.

-   Yes/no: Why might, or why might not, you use this tool in the future?

### Scenario

In this scenario, let's imagine that you live near Denver, CO, and that in the past, you experienced a situation where you needed immediate care. You are coming to this site because you would like to learn more about the locations closest to you, should you experience something similar in the future.

### Task 1

#### PROTOTYPE: Open-ended search results

#### Questions:

I would like you to perform a search for locations that would be relevant to you.

-   (Can you walk me through that process?)
-   Tell me about what you see in this results list.
-   (Do they notice 'urgent' vs 'emergency'? Why did they chose one over the other?)

Based on the results of your search, what is important to you when choosing a location from this list?

Let's say you want to search for [All / VA / Community locations] in your area.

-   (Can you walk me through the process?)
-   Tell me about what you see in this results list.
-   Does the distinction between this results list, and the previous results list, matter to you?
-   (Do they notice 'urgent' vs 'emergency'? Why did they chose one over the other?)

### Task 2

#### PROTOTYPE: User understands the specific search options

#### Questions:

When you see the search heading, 'Facility type', what does this mean to you?

It describes what the facility can do for you. Whether it is a hospital or *inaudible*.

For this task, under the 'Facility type' menu, I'd like you to choose 'In-network emergency care'.

-   When you see the phrase 'In-network', what does that mean to you?

I'm not sure.

-   When you see "emergency care", what kinds of facilities might you expect to see in the search results?
-   [Open 'Facility type' menu] When you see "urgent care" what kinds of facilities might you expect to see in the search results?
-   What the distinction between 'emergency care' and 'urgent care' mean to you?

When you see the search heading, 'Service type', what does this mean to you?

I'm not really sure.
