**I have started recording.** I'd like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record my screen the audio as we talk today?" Yes.

Warm-up Questions - 5 minutes
-----------------------------

-   Can you tell me a little about your service history? My husband is the veteran so. He joined February of 01 that was the time we met, I remember that he had to lose a little weight to get in. when to bootcamp, graduated, there were some issues that we found after bootcamp. His first leave was in FL. There duty station was there and I cant remember, he hurt himself and it caused him to go to medical and this is where he found out that he had disk disease. The doctors had told him that in bootcamp, he was kept on a diet throughout boot camp. Because he was kept on the diet and the worko8uts he lost so much weight or body mass to fast in the time frame that it caused the disease. He was medically separated, we married in 02 and then at 03 he was discharged. That was his service. Then a few years after he started to use boot camp. I have heard people wait until they are older but by 25  was his first neck surgery. He has had multiple surgeries including a shoulder surgery. His service has caused a lot of issues
-   Have you ever experienced something that required an immediate visit to any health facility?  This is where we had issues, last year or two years. The appointments are specialist. The next to closest on is over an hour drive it may almost be 2 hours. We've had to route everything through choice and make appointments to were they are within 30 minutes. The longest he did last month and it was over an hour drive. That's the longest I can get him out of the house. His anxiety and PTSD has went up and the mental health issues on top of physical health issues. The last appointment was primary care, I am not trying to seem ugly. I was glad I got him to go because I cant always get him to go, he is in a cycle where he is up up up and no sleep then crashes. He ahs been up for 2-6 days then crashes. He likes his doctor, but other time he knows the doctor ahs to follow certain rules that annoy him.

-   If yes: can you tell me about your experience at that location? When we moved they called me to the clinic because I had to get everyone reestablished so it was calling to see what's closer. It is good that it is 5 minutes away. Sometimes when you call the doctors office. You wont be on the phone right away you will talk to a nurse. With the va, yesterday I had to drop off things because they want lab work., they don't do drop in. they put in the order, it is in the system, sign them in and the orders there. My husbands I had to take the paperwork there because it was through the choice program and they said they would call when they can do it. I needed to setup an appointment because he isnt feeling good, we found out what is wrong with his skin, no one called back so I am hoping that the nurse calls today.  
-   Can you tell me about your understanding of your VA benefit coverage in the event of an emergency? Well if we go to the hospital we can put in travel pay, with the clinic it is about 5 minutes. It would just be a longer drive to go to the hospital, that is it really for his benefits.
-   Benefits at another location: if it were the dermatologist that is the choice program so I would have to ask them about travel pay due to it being over an hour away. I would just call the choice program vs talking to the clinic. With them being an outside provider they might not know when he saw them last month for the first time. When you have a flare up I need you to come in, I was able to get him there and it was a 2 week wait for results. When calling to get a result, I had called and wanted to make sure the primary received the results so they know. Normally with veterans they send a copy and double check. We had the primary appointment nd they didn't get any test results. Okay so we were getting the results next week and when we went in they still didn't send the results. When going to the clinic, I had a missed call. very bad about not leaving messages. I told them it needed to be forwarded. I don't know where they are sending the results for primary not to be getting them.

Usability Test - 30 minutes
---------------------------

### PROTOTYPE: Facility Locator

#### Questions:

-   Are you familiar with, or have you ever used VA.gov's location finder? I probably have at some point. Probably used when we lived in OK. There were 3 va hospitals or more there. So that was probably the last time I looked it up when we moved I had to look up the closest clinic.

### Scenario

In this scenario, let's imagine that you live near Denver, CO, and that in the past, you experienced a situation where you needed immediate care. You are coming to this site because you would like to learn more about the locations closest to you, should you experience something similar in the future.

### Task 1

#### PROTOTYPE: Open-ended search results

#### Questions:

I would like you to perform a search for locations that would be relevant to you.

-   (Can you walk me through that process?): so leave the zip code then go to facility type. I would just do va health then go to services. Leets look at primary care.
-   Why you choose those options: if it is because we are in the area or moved, we would need to set up primary first.
-   Why va health choice: well urgent care as far as that is under va, I don't know many va urgent care centers. Some VA's don't do urgent care. The clinic here doesn't do it and the medical office next store that is va has an urgent care and I recently found out that I can take him there if the primary is booked. I can take him there, let him know he is a veteran. I just found out a few months ago he can only be seen three times at the urgent care. I have never known VA clinic that offers urgent care. Even now if I call in and tell them. The response I might get they tell us to go to the ER. we've had  responses in the past to take him to the ER, but we've had the ER tell us they don't want to see us either because it is not urgent. He doesn't feel good and it might be the flu so urgent care is the last thing I look for.
-   ER visit: would that be in network emergency care
-   Expect: I don't know if that is an ER visit or maybe they falls under the closest hospital. Were we live in fort Leonard Wood, even though his primary is outside the gate. The facilities that are on base if I didn't have a choice due to distance. I can always take him to the hospital but there are issues, veterans say it and my husband. The bill, yes the va will pay it but my husband included they have to fight for the va to pay it. where we are, why can't I take my husband on base to be seen. I cant take him on base to be seen. If I call the ambulance they can take him to the va hospital but cant take him on to fort leaner wood to be seen even though he is a veteran.
-   (Do they notice 'urgent' vs 'emergency'? Why did they chose one over the other?): I have never known a va facility to have an urgent care. Like if I need to take him due to being sick, I cant take him to the clinic to be seen. They can put him in to be seen. I have even called one time because he was sick and it was going to be 3 months before he was seen. I would think emergency care is more er care. Urgent care I can use the clinic next store but only three times. In network emergency care can probably be used more than 3 times because its more va facilitated. The va needs more urgent care, more va clinics to have a walk in option.
-   Change options you currently see what would it be: have it be a supplemental like Medicare so I have better options. VA is more of routine maintenance.
-   Difference between service types of matter to you under in network emergency care:  I would probably be a little confused. I would need to know what in network emergency care means. Is it all together. If I had to find something for him is it any va facility choice program that will work with va. I wouldn't even click on any of these. If it came to this to be emergency care I would click on them and call to see where I could take him. Model it after Tricare.
-   Tell me about what you see in this results list: for this area listed, it has A less than a mile, B same distance, so right by each other. It lists those, c is5 miles and d is 6.8. it would depend on where I live to determine where I live. If he needs it immediately I would go to the closest one.
-   Distance matters: yes. I would look more at distance if it were an emergency. If I need to get there fast it is whoever I am closest to.
-   Blue info notice, tell me what it means to you: it just says saint Joseph hospital, and if it says in network I should be able to take him there without an issue. I should just be able to provide them his card. I should take him there; tell them he is a veteran and have no issues with being seen. There ahs been times they ask for payment upfront first
-   What doe you notice on this page: it says it is an emergency care at the closest ER. I would look at distance, if they work with the va I should tell them he is a veteran and show the VA card and be seen without issues. We've had some that want money up front to be seen. The va tells us to go to the er but that's not always the case.
-   Useful: I probably wouldn't need some of this for what he falls under. I see some issues if you are a couple, I don't think they would be listed like vitro, it would be good for those that need it

Post-Task Interview - 5 minutes
-------------------------------

I have just a couple more questions before we finish up:

-   If you could change one thing on this site to make searching for locations easier, what would that be? (If anything): You know that as far as the facility type I would leave it alone and the pharmacy thing isnt a bad idea. We know that pharmacy would need to go through the pharmacy then sent here. At times, his primary if he needs an antibiotic, they have been able to send it to the store for us to pick up. That would be nice to know if there are pharmacies that could be used. I would like to know more, we were using outside providers and they changed the medication and could route it though the one pharmacy, for us that was a big no. they wouldn't fill it and it was a big mess. We were in Springfield last weekend, if I need to find an urgent care I could take him to that would be nice to come here and look up.
-   Might use in the future: yes. I found out about these studies on the veteran groups. I can always share to the groups myself; I am so isolated. We are at home 24/7. I don't know other veterans or caregivers.
