**Conversation Guide: Emergency Care Mashup**

**START RECORDING TO THE CLOUD**

-   **I have started recording.** I'd like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record my screen the audio as we talk today?"

**Warm-up Questions - 5 minutes**

-   Can you tell me a little about your service history?

I served in the Air Force from 94 to the end of 97. Right now, I receive 100% disability benefits for PTSD. I was stationed in Illinois, but I did basic training in Texas and Mississippi.

-   Have you ever experienced what you thought was an emergency that required a visit to any facility?

-   If yes: can you tell me about your experience there?

Yes -- when I was in the military I was taken to the base' medical facility. There are also a couple different facilities where I currently live -- many of those are private. The closest ER that is Veteran sponsored is an hour -- an hour and a half away. There is a local county and privately owned hospital that I go to more regularly.

-   If yes: what kind of facility was it (VA/non-VA)?

I have been to both VA and non-VA medical centers. When I've had to go to the ER for the VA, it was a little bit of a far drive to get there, but they had all of my medical records. I've been to a satellite clinic which is 20 minutes from where I live, so that's where I typically go. I have also have had to go to another clinic for an unknown medical clinic -- it is through Tri-Care, not sure if it is VA or non-VA. 

-   How did you find out about that specific location?

The local locations have been here since I was a kid, so I've always known about them.

-   Can you tell me about your understanding of your VA benefit coverage in the event of an emergency?

I am 100% covered by the VA. From what I understand, going to the ER is still covered 100% from the VA even if I'm not able to get to the VA hospital itself. I just have to get Tri-Care correctly billed so that the VA can cover it. Sometimes I don't know what to tell non-VA centers except to bill it through tri-care.

**Usability Test - 30 minutes**

**PROTOTYPE: Facility Locator**

**Questions:**

-   Are you familiar with, or have you ever used VA.gov's location finder?

No, because I pretty much know where everything is in my local area. I can see how it would be beneficial, though.

-   If no: how do you go about finding information about VA locations?

I knew the local facilities because I've grown up in the area. Any new facility that I went to was because I was transferred from a current facility -- so they just referred me to there.

**Scenario**

**Directions:**

I'm going to walk us through a scenario and have you perform some tasks. Again, this is only a prototype so some things might not work as expected. As you work through the tasks I'd like you to think out loud and narrate what you see and what goes through your mind.

In this scenario, let's imagine that you live near Denver, CO, and that in the past, you experienced a situation where you needed immediate care. You are coming to this site because you would like to learn more about the locations closest to you, should you experience something similar in the future.

**Task 1**

**PROTOTYPE: Open-ended search results**

**Questions:**

I would like you to perform a search for locations that would be relevant to you.

*Chose Urgent Care for the Service Type -- chose VA Health for Facility Type* I'm used to searching for VA Health and doing it that way makes it easier for me for billing. It cuts out a middle-man and takes me out of the loop. 

*results populated* I see the map, but it only has one dot...I see that it has A and B, but I'm not sure what the red dot is for.

-   (Point out steps, probe through process):
-   Can you walk me through that process?
-   Tell me about what you see in this results list.
-   (Do they notice 'urgent' vs 'emergency'? Why did they chose one over the other?)

Let's say you want to search for [All / VA / Community locations] in your area.

*unsure at first* It does have the VA distinction in the dropdown so I guess you could go there.

The alert for in-network emergency care benefit seems like more of an information section than an alert. The "I" makes it seem like somewhere you can go to get more info.

-   (Point out steps, probe through process):
-   Can you walk me through the process?
-   Tell me about what you see in this results list.
-   Does the distinction between this results list, and the previous results list, matter to you?
-   (Do they notice 'urgent' vs 'emergency'? Why did they chose one over the other?)

**Task 2**

**PROTOTYPE: User understands the different search options**

**Questions:**

What does the distinction between 'Facility type' and 'Service type' mean to you?

To me, if I am on a VA website, it is anything that is covered by the Government that is provided by them -- not including third party facilities that would have to send the bill back to the VA.

For this task, under the 'Facility type' menu, I'd like you to choose 'In-network emergency care'.

-   When you see the phrase 'In-network', what does that mean to you?

It means that it is covered within your plan. It should eliminate the third-party person who connects you and the VA to get the bill covered.

-   When you see "emergency care", what kinds of facilities might you expect to see in the search results?

Any hospital or local entity that would take an emergency. I would imagine that urgent care would fall under that. It is nice if you have urgent care as a separate option.

Emergency care and urgent care are very similar, but I think the fine line difference is whether it is life or death, or if it something that can be done within urgent care's ability (blood testing, urine samples, etc...)

Open the 'Service type' menu, talk me through what the different options mean to you.

-   Does the distinction between 'Service type' options matter to you?

Just by seeing the "All in-network" option, it is directing me to think that it differentiates in-network vs. out of-network care.

-   What matters about the distinction?

I'm a little confused about the first and third options in the dropdown. I don't know what the difference between the first and third are. *understood in-network community care* It seems like it is redundant, but for a specific purpose - you may not get many results if you chose the third option.

**Post-Task Interview - 5 minutes**

I have just a couple more questions before we finish up:

-   If you could change one thing on this site to make searching for locations easier, what would that be? (If anything):

The map should be interactable. I don't know if it is just because I am on my phone, but you should be able to scroll and get directions from the map itself. A lot of Veterans aren't going to have a laptop on them all the time so it would be good to be able to do that from your phone too. If the red dot is supposed to be your location, then it should let you know. It would be good if you can copy and paste the directions into any navigation page, because different phones use different things -- iPhone navigation vs. google maps. 

-   Is there anything that I haven't asked you that you think that I should know?

I don't have any specific questions, but I think this would be great to use especially for people who need care while they are on vacation or in a new area.
