**Conversation Guide: Emergency Care Mashup**

**START RECORDING TO THE CLOUD**

-   **I have started recording.** I'd like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record my screen the audio as we talk today?"

**Warm-up Questions - 5 minutes**

-   Can you tell me a little about your service history?

I did 5 and a half years, and I was deployed twice. I was a mechanic. I got out in December of 2003 and have been out ever since.

-   Have you ever experienced what you thought was an emergency that required a visit to any facility?

-   If yes: can you tell me about your experience there?

Like an ER visit? I've been to the ER both during and after service. *experience at ER after service* I went in once for what I thought was appendicitis, but it was kidney stones. It was a non-VA center; the closest VA center is 45 minutes away so it wouldn't make sense for me to go to a VA ER if its that far away. I usually just go through my primary care doctor for everything else.

When deciding between a VA or non-VA center, I just go to whatever is closest that can cover what I need because I have Tricare. If it is for something that is related to my service, then I go to the VA -- but since I have other insurance, I try not to clog the VA system.

-   If yes: what kind of facility was it (VA/non-VA)?

*Non-VA*

-   If yes: can you tell me why you decided on that particular location?

the closest VA center is 45 minutes away so it wouldn't make sense for me to go to a VA ER if it's that far away.

-   Can you tell me about your understanding of your VA benefit coverage in the event of an emergency?

I was told that I could go into any VA center and be covered because of my disability percentage. But if I go to a non-VA center then I am supposed to call ahead to get approval if I want the VA to pay for it -- unless it is life or death.

**Usability Test - 30 minutes**

**PROTOTYPE: Facility Locator**

**Questions:**

-   Are you familiar with, or have you ever used VA.gov's location finder?

No, I don't think I've used it because I have always known where the VA was. I know there are other satellite locations, but I have personally never used those. If I am going to the VA, I go to the VA hospital.

-   If no: how do you go about finding information about VA locations?

I would just Google, "VA hospitals." But we have been going to this VA location for 11 years and I was stationed near the only other VA hospital that I've gone to.

**Scenario**

**Directions:**

I'm going to walk us through a scenario and have you perform some tasks. Again, this is only a prototype so some things might not work as expected. As you work through the tasks I'd like you to think out loud and narrate what you see and what goes through your mind.

In this scenario, let's imagine that you live near Denver, CO, and that in the past, you experienced a situation where you needed immediate care. You are coming to this site because you would like to learn more about the locations closest to you, should you experience something similar in the future.

**Task 1**

**PROTOTYPE: Open-ended search results**

**Questions:**

I would like you to perform a search for locations that would be relevant to you.

I would enter the Zip Code and then select ER if it were in "Facility Type." The first thing I saw was urgent care, but I was looking for ER -- the first thing that popped in my head was to click the urgent care instead of in-network emergency care, but I would choose In-network emergency care.

There are two locations in the area. One is 5 miles and the other is 6.8 miles away. *did not seem to use the map* If I were in the area, I would consider traffic to see which would be quicker to get to beyond just distance. Then I would call ahead to see what the wait time is because one may be quicker to get to, but has a longer wait time.

I would choose the VA medical center over just a clinic. If it were for an emergency situation then I would go to the medical center because they probably have more services than a clinic.

-   (Point out steps, probe through process):
-   Can you walk me through that process?
-   Tell me about what you see in this results list.
-   (Do they notice 'urgent' vs 'emergency'? Why did they chose one over the other?)

Based on the results of your search, what is important to you when choosing a location from this list?

*types of services and location*

Let's say you want to search for [All / VA / Community locations] in your area.

It is weird that there is only In-network emergency care and not also an out-of-network emergency care option. If I need emergency care then I may be willing to go somewhere that is out of network, but you would prefer to go somewhere in network so that you don't have to pay for it.

I would choose Urgent Care. My dealings with urgent care around here with my kids has shown that they can handle very limited services. I can't tell you how many times I have gone to urgent care to then be told to go to the ER -- even though we still have to pay them just to tell us to go to the ER. *understood difference between urgent care situations and emergency care situations* I've gotten good about determining what needs to be addressed by an ER. I don't have a lot of faith in the urgent care centers in strip malls anymore.

-   (Point out steps, probe through process):
-   Can you walk me through the process?
-   Tell me about what you see in this results list.
-   Does the distinction between this results list, and the previous results list, matter to you?
-   (Do they notice 'urgent' vs 'emergency'? Why did they chose one over the other?)

**Task 2**

**PROTOTYPE: User understands the different search options**

**Questions:**

For this task, under the 'Facility type' menu, I'd like you to choose 'In-network emergency care'.

-   When you see the phrase 'In-network', what does that mean to you?

It means that it will be paid for by the VA -- service connection. In-network providers are easy to deal with. I would expect the search results to be able to offer X-Rays, MRIs, blood work, a staff that can determine if there is a concussion or broken arm.

Open the 'Service type' menu, talk me through what the different options mean to you.

-   Does the distinction between 'Service type' options matter to you?

One of them is run by the VA (VA urgent care) and the other is any other provider that is in the network of the VA -- they don't actually work for the VA (community urgent care).

*Searched for In-network emergency care" and "All in-network emergency care"*

There are two results. *did not look at the map* One is a medical center and the other is a hospital. They are close to each other, on the same street. The blue info alert means that the payment should be covered by the VA -- it should be easy to go to those locations. I don't know why two of the results have that and the other two don't because I specifically searched for those which are in-network. I wouldn't even bother looking at the bottom two...but I just realized that the bottom two are the VA. I would still try to go to one of the civilian hospitals. I would do a quick search for review to decide which I wanted to go to. I would rather go to the civilian hospital because it is normally better care and better bedside manner -- their dealing with the patient has normally been better with a civilian hospital than with the VA or a military hospital in general. 

**Post-Task Interview - 5 minutes**

I have just a couple more questions before we finish up:

-   If you could change one thing on this site to make searching for locations easier, what would that be? (If anything):

I would change In-network emergency care to ER and then when you click on it, it would give you the option to do in or out of network care in the service type dropdown. I would assume that all results given on a VA page would be in-network for with the VA unless I chose an option that gave me results that weren't. If I am on a VA website, then I would want everything to be in-network unless I choose otherwise -- I would use Google if I were looking for non-VA centers.
