**Conversation Guide: Emergency Care Mashup**

**START RECORDING TO THE CLOUD**

-   **I have started recording.** I'd like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record my screen the audio as we talk today?" Yes.

**Warm-up Questions - 5 minutes**

-   Can you tell me a little about your service history? I am an old vet, went in 75 and got out in 79. I was glad to go in and out and I was a medic during that time. That's pretty much it.
-   Have you ever experienced what you thought was an emergency that required a visit to any facility? Yes. Three years ago I fractured my arm, we live in a rural area and I needed emergency surgery.

-   If yes: can you tell me about your experience there?

-   If yes: what kind of facility was it (VA/non-VA)? Local community hospital in TN. About 12 miles from my home, country backroads to get there. Amazing service. The experience was good with the hospital. But once it was with the va it devolved. Local community hospital not va.

-   If yes: can you tell me why you decided on that particular location? It was the closest one to me and I had a broken arm and had to get there.

-   How did you find out about that specific location? I have a daughter in law that works there. There was another choice closer but I went the extra 4 miles due to reputations. I was aware of it already.

-   Can you tell me about your understanding of your VA benefit coverage in the event of an emergency?  That was the whole issue. Prior to that all I knew was that I had to contact the va at the same time. My husband contacted the va and there was no other follow up. I did not know what was expected of me and I don't think the websites address that. I think there are serious issues getting healthcare form the vas under emergency circumstances.

**Usability Test - 30 minutes**

**PROTOTYPE: Facility Locator**

**Questions:**

-   Are you familiar with, or have you ever used VA.gov's location finder? No

-   If no: how do you go about finding information about VA locations?  I know the primary one in Knoxville so I would call there. It is already centralized for me and that's basically it. I didn't even know this exists; this might be helpful in the future.

-   Yes/no: Do you see yourself using this tool in the future? (Why might you use it?) I would try it to see if it worked or fille din the blank. Normally the primary care doctor will direct you where to go if it is outside. The thing that would be more important is emergency care rather than primary care. The other thing is that if you need urgent care that's not emergency care. They sent out something that says find an approved va urgent care clinic, maybe have prompts that would show routine care, emergency care and urgent care.

**Scenario**

**Directions:**

I'm going to walk us through a scenario and have you perform some tasks. Again, this is only a prototype so some things might not work as expected. As you work through the tasks I'd like you to think out loud and narrate what you see and what goes through your mind.

In this scenario, let's imagine that you live near Denver, CO, and that in the past, you experienced a situation where you needed immediate care. You are coming to this site because you would like to learn more about the locations closest to you, should you experience something similar in the future.

**Task 1**

**PROTOTYPE: Open-ended search results**

**Questions:**

I would like you to perform a search for locations that would be relevant to you.

-   (Point out steps, probe through process): these are horrible options. If I am hurt what the hell am I thinking about. If I am hurt and going to this sight it would have me frustrated and not know where to begin. I am looking at va health but then there are no other choices besides covid. Okay I got it.  I will go with urgent care but I don't think that addresses emergency care. They will send you to non-hospital free standing facilities that will take care of some issues. Okay I see all in-network emergency care. All in-network emergency care, what does that meant. Does in network mean Medicare and how does the va dub tail. I don't know. This would not help me that much. I don't know. If I were sitting here and hurt this wouldn't help me and again maybe what it shows. If I click on all in-network, then it shows me what's there maybe that would make sense.
-   Choice for va health instead of the others: I like the community providers in the va network. I don't know how well that works for veterans. You can have a community provider but cant go to them unless you are already authorized. If this leads you to believe you can go there directly you will get a bill. I am just looking at the other things there.
-   Thoughts: I had a friend, I find va cemeteries interesting, vet center, va benefits could also be good there. There could also be coordination of benefits. It does go to the community providers but it is an aspect of care, there isn't enough communication within the va about it. you cannot go directly you need to be authorized. It is the emphasizing enough at the va. They only tell you if you do it wrong, they don't tell you how to do it right.
-   When you see in network: to me that was confusing, I don't know hat that means. Does that only mean the va or you can go to the rural clinic but you have to call. they don't tell you but I just knew. That is not clear at all what that means.
-   Can you walk me through that process?
-   Tell me about what you see in this results list.
-   (Do they notice 'urgent' vs 'emergency'? Why did they chose one over the other?) emergency care is that I need full blown facilities like Xray, surgery and doctors. Urgent care is a major pain or ache that could be cared for in a standalone facility, don't need everything. An emergency is like it cannot wait.
-   Difference: to me they don't mean anything to me. I don't know what it means, not a one of those makes sense. The va emergency care is an oxymoron, give me a break.
-   What do you see: a map of Denver, then abcd showing locations, how far away they are, number, I do like that it had the prompt in network care and that may help explain it so that's good. I find it laughable that it says call to confirm services and hours, if it is an emergency you think it is open 24/7. Maybe just get take away the call to confirm. That's not life or death that's just me picking.
-   Blue: yes that works very well to focus the eyes on something like that. I know you look at it from a design perspective so that works.

Did you notice the other: Like for heath in danger, yeah. I an neutral about it. it is like hot coffee at McDonalds. Hot coffee is hot coffee. You know if you need to go to an emergency room right away. Visually its fine but the blue caught my eye faster.

Other thoughts: one of the things within the va that they are big on is ways to address suicide. Given the overall problem to address is there should be a prompts for emergency psych help. It is such a big issues that it almost seems a psych options or mental health option should be there as well.

**Post-Task Interview - 5 minutes**

I have just a couple more questions before we finish up:

-   If you could change one thing on this site to make searching for locations easier, what would that be? (If anything):  Let me go look at the facility type again. It is almost like in net work emergency care, to me that is a stumbling block. I know that if I were hurt the only thing I would want to hit is emergency care then have the explanation. The in network throws me, as we sit here I am not sure what that means. I like that you have the distance to the location. What I would suggest is having reviews of the facilities but I don't know if you are allowed to do that. You have two that are close toe ach other, maybe pros and cons. Maybe they have a great surgeon on board. Maybe the specialties or ratings, to often the va system is game and pigs and people don't get that. That's where doctors train and to provide more information to the consumer(veteran) would be helpful
-   How would you change dropdowns:  I can't think of specific things. It is not the way it operates; it is the terminology that is the issue. You probably get different feedback. The concept is really good. Are you tried in with my HealtheVet. I don't know if it has the location search, I use it for messages, and appointments. I don't think it had these kinds of options so it would be helpful to link them.
