-   **I have started recording.** I'd like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record my screen the audio as we talk today?" Yes.

Warm-up Questions - 5 minutes
-----------------------------

-   Can you tell me a little about your service history?  I served for 27 years in the air force, 10 years as a flyer, then had a break then came back in as a dentist.
-   Have you ever experienced something that required an immediate visit to any health facility? Yes, I am sure I have. I am trying to think of the most recent. It is hard to think off hand but I am sure that I needed immediate care. When I was younger I broke my wrist, so broken bones type of things. It is hard to think of immediate acute things I have a lot of chronic things.

-   If yes: can you tell me about your experience at that location?
-   If yes: what kind of facility was it (VA/non-VA)?  My last job was working at the Air force academy and I will be there after this for medication. I was interviewed and accepted a teaching job. They have a va facility there as well so I am in the process of switching form Tricare to va care.
-   If yes: can you tell me why you decided on that particular location?  Convenience, location distance. I will say having said that I was working in a contracting job. The air force academy  is a bit further but the care was great and there are more specialist available.
-   If yes: How did you find out about that specific location? I worked there. I feel more comfortable with the care I got. It is about to change; my old boss is one of the ones that recruiting me for the job and he uses the va there for all medical needs.
-   One you have never been to before:  so we are a market now and share recourses. Fort Carson, the first few times I went there I was lost. Google is not accurate for the buildings on that post. Once you are inside you do okay but I remember the confusion on trying to find it.
-   Google search to find it: yeah. I try to get away from google so I used map quest but it was hopeless. Now I am using I new app. I just don't like googles policies being invasive.
-   Can you tell me about your understanding of your VA benefit coverage in the event of an emergency? I have to admit my ignorance. Part of that depends. I am 90 percent and I have another claim in, if you are at 100 percent they have CHAMPVA where your family can go wherever. I am still planning to go to the va, I don't know the process yet because I am in the process. It changed for active duty as well. It changed to a software process that adds in dental and medical. DoD is using it and I think VA is using it or will be as well. It is for medical history, medications, and scheduling. We just transitioned and it is moving in waves. Ours just happened and the transition wasn't bad. Our productivity is lower because it is different clicks but in part of that there is a new encrypted system. I am trying to use express scripts but that is when they mail them. There was an issue so I have to go get a few pills until it is here.

Usability Test - 30 minutes
---------------------------

### PROTOTYPE: Facility Locator

#### Questions:

-   Are you familiar with, or have you ever used VA.gov's location finder? I have not used it but I have been on va.gov for different things.

-   If no: how do you go about finding information about VA locations? I would use the va.gov website with this link, it's probably what brings this up.\
-   What about a new location: I  might google, va in Arora. The va website is getting better so I would start there and look around on the site.

### Scenario

In this scenario, let's imagine that you live near Denver, CO, and that in the past, you experienced a situation where you needed immediate care. You are coming to this site because you would like to learn more about the locations closest to you, should you experience something similar in the future.

### Task 1

#### PROTOTYPE: Open-ended search results

#### Questions:

I would like you to perform a search for locations that would be relevant to you.

-   (Can you walk me through that process?): Once I click on find va location, this is what comes up. I would leave that zip code, I would look for what I need, va health is the primary thing I think of. I don't think I need in network emergency care; I would use that if I had a broken arm so I would click va health first then all va health services and search.
-   Why va health first: It seems the most generic and all encompassing. I don't need these last three, they aren't medical. This seems more like the surgical type of clinic, urgent care is not bad depending on how acute it is, it is in order or emergency, it will provide generic information, urgent care if it needs to be quicker, then emergency I would go there if I needed it. community care and pharmacy is more routine. Benefits would provide information, cemeteries, hopefully I am not dead. Centers is other than medical to me.
-   All facilities: use ca health and then over here there are specialties.
-   What does facility type mean to you: there are different facility, in-patient is overnight stays. I would think overnight inpatient, outpatient for surgical centers to and outpatient clinic that does not do surgeries. Then a decreasing scale and less invasive as it goes down in scope.
-   In network: it will be paid for or within my plan. Lower out of pocket costs.
-   Emergency care: There I think somewhere that ahs an ER more of an in-patient large scope facility.
-   Urgent care: Urgent care is not in patients facilities. There will be less specialist, no surgical or minimum surgical procedures. It is for acute needs other than surgical.
-   Service type mean to you: So to be looking at the options, it is va facilities, this is a generic saying so that would be va and community care then breaks it into va facilities and in network facilities.
-   Does it matter to you: yes if I want to go to a va facility. In my personal experience I don't know if I need it, this will get you everything but it might be to much so just show me the va facility so I might skip right to this one. I don't know if I would go to the last one because to get this information I would just click all in network. I don't know my I would exclude a va facility. I guess if I had a bias if I think I wont be seen fast enough, maybe then I would just want in network.
-   Tell me about what you see in this results list: the common sense if you have an emergency  call 911. Then I scroll and expect to see, I love the map, there's a text listing, I love the map graphic that I don't need to expand. I like the combination. I assume I could click on this letter and it would then take me to that one, that would be awesome. The size is good and text is good on the side.
-   What about to learn more about benefits, how would you do that: I would assume if I clicked here or here, or the information. I would click here. Any of those would ordinate  me toward the facility and then this looks easy to click the benefit link.

Post-Task Interview - 5 minutes
-------------------------------

I have just a couple more questions before we finish up:

-   If you could change one thing on this site to make searching for locations easier, what would that be? (If anything): I don't know, I really like it. I am an insider because I would at an executive level at the medical facility so I can translate the terms differently. I think they will know va health, in network, urgent care. Pharmacies is a big one. Everything here makes sense to me, well laid out. I have to give kudos, other that being helpful to you and other. This is a great size. Other sites they give you a small box and then expand it and you lost the text. I like to see the map first, it is nice to have it corresponding, if it centers up it would go right here and center it up. I love that, the get directions, phone number. I am not sure what limited service and hours means; I would like a link there. In network emergency care benefits, it would be nice to have something to each with the services offered to be hyper linked on each one.
-   What changes to make for the average user: VA health needs more information, what does that mean. Is that facilities, or all va health. I think that's what it was intended to mean. Then urgent care I would still have facilities to remind them. They are all buildings besides benefits. Cemeteries is self-explanatory. Vet centers is to board. You should put veteran instead of va. Things like that. Trying to make it as clear as possible is good. Like all in-network emergency care. VA emergency care . this side is clearer. Facility type has a lot of information which is good but a few add ons would make it better. This is very user friendly.
-   Would you use it: yes, Definity
-   Is there anything that I haven't asked you that you think that I should know? Just a preference, when I go to this page, I bet it is va.gov and the find a va location is a hyper link. I would put that to the left because that's what most people may be looking for. I would put it on the left because most users like me are here for that.
-   Any questions for me? I think it is important to have these focus groups, I am happy to see this. It just helps getting better. I used to go to ebenefits, but most of the things I need are on va.gov. the better you can make it is just awesome.
