# Session Notes: Federal Standardized Header/Footer Usability Testing - Phase 1 (non-assistive tech users)

## Warm-up Questions 


1. *I understand you are a (Veteran / Family member / Caregiver). Is that right?* 

1. What kind of device are you using today? *(Computer / Tablet / Smartphone)*

1. I will be sharing a web page link with you during the session. How would you prefer to receive the URL? I could dictate it to you, put it in the Zoom chat, or *(for smartphone only)* my colleague could text it to you. *(RECORD)* 

1. What VA benefits, if any, do you have experience with? 
    - *RECORD: health care / education / career services / disability / home loans / pension / life insurance / burial benefits / __________*

1. How do you typically get information and benefits from the VA? 
    - *(Google / Facebook / MHV / eBenefits / Contact center call/email / VA.gov / ________________________)*

## User Tasks

### Task 2: [First impressions]
I would like you to take some time to look over this web page from top to bottom, and then tell me about it. I'm interested in your impressions of what you see, any questions that you have, and how you feel about it. 
 

### Task 3: [Find VA location]
I'd like you to imagine that you're planning a trip to another city, and you want to know where the nearest VA hospital is. How would you figure this out from this web page?

*RECORD navigation: **desktop header > Find a VA location** / search / **mobile header > search > Find a VA location*** / footer

*RECORD: directly / indirectly successful (incl. search) / needed help / unsuccessful*

*(NOTE: if wrong page ever opens, ask p to refresh page)*


### Task 4: [Learn about disability compensation]
Pretend that lately you've been having difficulty with your hearing, and you think it might be related to your military service. So you're wondering if you qualify for [more] disability compensation. What could you do from this web page? 

*RECORD navigation: header > **megamenu > Disability > Eligibility** / footer / search / mobile search*

*RECORD: directly / indirectly successful (incl. search) / needed help / unsuccessful*


### Task 5: [Find a Form]
Let's say that you're considering going back to school to get your degree, and you'd like to see if the VA can help you pay for it. How might you apply online?  

*RECORD navigation: header > megamenu > Education and training > How to apply / **footer > VA forms** / search / **mobile header > search > Find a VA form***

*RECORD: directly / indirectly successful (incl. search) / needed help / unsuccessful*

- *(IF TIME & if didn't use Find a Form)* Is there another way that you could do this task from this web page?
- *(If need more prompting)* You're looking for the application form to fill out online.

### Task 6: [Careers at VA]
I want you to pretend that you're job hunting, and you're wondering if you could get a job at the VA. How might you do that from this web page?

*RECORD navigation: header > megamenu > Careers and employment > Find VA careers and support / **footer > Careers at VA** / search / mobile search*

*RECORD: directly / indirectly successful (incl. search) / needed help / unsuccessful*

- *(IF TIME & if didn't use footer)* Is there another way that you could do this task from this web page?

### Task 7: [Contact VA]
Say that after using this website for a while, you didn't get all of your questions answered. How might you reach out to someone at the VA? 
- *(if additional prompting needed)* Is there anything on this page that might help?

*RECORD navigation: **header > Contact** or search / **footer > chatbot or AskVA or call** / mobile header > Menu > Contact us*

*RECORD: directly / indirectly successful (incl. search) / needed help / unsuccessful*

### Task 8: [FOIA]
 Say that you heard of the Freedom of Information Act, and you want to learn more about it. How might you do that from this web page?

*RECORD navigation: header / search / **footer > FOIA** / mobile header*

- *(IF TIME & if didn't use footer)* Is there another way that you could do this task from this web page?

*RECORD any feedback about the black/white footer area*

*RECORD: directly / indirectly successful (incl. search) / needed help / unsuccessful*

### Task 9: [Update your contact information with VA]
Could you please refresh the current page in your browser? *(so login works)*

Let's say that you recently moved and want to make sure that your mail and benefit information from the VA gets to your new address. I’d like you to update your address from this web page. 

*RECORD navigation: **header > Sign in** / footer / search / mobile search*

- *(IF TIME & if didn't use Sign in)* Is there another way that you could do this task from this web page?

*(If needed, prompt participant to use Login.gov, click to enter info)*

*(See previous page and* Cameron/Sign Out *in top right corner)*

- *(If p is confused by Cameron)* Pretend that instead of “Cameron”, *your* first name was there.

*RECORD navigation: 
- *(desktop) **Cameron > Profile*** 
- *(mobile) **Menu > Cameron > Profile***
- *Any feedback about name as menu (for Auth)*

*(After participant says they want to click "Profile", ask them to stop there. We want to know if Auth menu and Profile are findable.)*

*RECORD: directly / indirectly successful (incl. search) / needed help / unsuccessful*


## Post-Task Interview - 7 minutes

*Type into #feedback-backchannel: "Any questions you want me to ask?"*

1. What stands out to you on this page that indicates this is an official government website?
    - *(More prompts if needed...)* 
    - Can you tell me about the very top of this page? *(USA Government)*
    - Can you talk about what's below that? *(VA seal and dept. name)*
    - Can you scroll down and tell me what you see there? *(Footer--blue and black parts)* 

1. How often do you use VA.gov?
1. Do you use the VA mobile app? If so, how often?

1. Overall, about everything you've seen in this session...What worked *well* for you?
1. What was *unclear or didn't work well* for you?
1. What would you like to *change or add*?
1. Is there anything else that we haven't talked about that you think I should know? 

## Thank You and Closing - 3 minutes

**Are you still okay if we use any video or audio clips from this session?** 
- *(yes / no)*
- *(If participant says yes)* Is there any part of our discussion that you would NOT want shared in a video clip?

**We really appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us today**. Your feedback is so helpful to us as we continue to learn about Veterans so we can improve the online tools that we provide.

If you know any other Veterans or family members who might be willing to participate in a future research session like this one, you can pass along the web link that you'll receive in your email from our team. 

Thank you so much again, and I hope that you enjoy the rest of your day!

*Open the Transcript panel, click **Save Transcript***

*End meeting for all*

## After Session 
- Click "End" on zoom website
- Download recording and closed caption (.vtt file)
- Rename and save transcript file from Finder
- Download notes
- Debrief to my spreadsheet
- Record how many questions they saw (from survey results)

## Approvals
- Amanda Klausmeier (Sitewide UX/UI Lead) on Nov 27, 2023
- Shane Strassberg (VA Research Ops) on Dec 6, 2023
