# Session Notes: Federal Standardized Header/Footer Usability Testing - Phase 1 (non-assistive tech users)

## Warm-up Questions 

1. *I understand you are a (Veteran / Family member / Caregiver). Is that right?* 
Veteran. 
1. *What kind of device are you using today? (Computer / Tablet / Smartphone)* 
Smartphone

1. *I will be sharing a web page link with you during the session. How would you prefer to receive the URL? I could dictate it to you, put it in the Zoom chat, or (for smartphone only) my colleague could text it to you.* 
Zoom Chat
1. *What VA benefits, if any, do you have experience with?*
Healthcare and I get disability payments. 
1. *How do you typically get information and benefits from the VA?*
Oh they send out hard copy newsletters. Electronic newsletters. I also access the websites. I am in the Puget sound area and the health care center provides information. A few years ago I got information directly from the VA secretary  at a conference in DC. 
What website: pugetsound.va.gov I think. It’s VISN 20. 

## User Tasks

### Task 2: [First impressions]
*I would like you to take some time to look over this web page from top to bottom, and then tell me about it. I'm interested in your impressions of what you see, any questions that you have, and how you feel about it.*
 I see deciding how much life insurance you get. The explanation underneath. That’s good. Can I click on the plus. Connect with us and contact us off the top of my head that looks confusing. Maybe just put contact us or if they have connect with us put and explanation to differentiate the contact us. Other languages I see. The bottom is standard stuff there. 
Can you open the plus but not click on anything else:
That shows different ways to get information. Again this to me seems maybe if it says more information or further information on this topic or VA. That’s just my opinion. 

The other one contact us click on:
 I would include in there just right up front email us. I know contact online through ask VA but knowing folks I would say email us at the top. Again I just think asking out chatbot a question and contact us through ask VA could be confusing.

Have you emailed va for information before:
Yes I have through my health care and eBenefits. It can be challenging to get to them. 

### Task 3: [Find VA location]
*I'd like you to imagine that you're planning a trip to another city, and you want to know where the nearest VA hospital is. How would you figure this out from this web page?*
I would go to menu. It says find a  va location. It says find va locations and I would click use my location. You have two choices you can use ‘use my location’ or put your zip code in the box which I have done before. For me use my location which would figure out where I am or I can manually enter my zip code. 

### Task 4: [Learn about disability compensation]
*Pretend that lately you've been having difficulty with your hearing, and you think it might be related to your military service. So you're wondering if you qualify for [more] disability compensation. What could you do from this web page?*
Uh. Probably go to menu. Click VA benefits and Health care. Click Disability. Then it says eligibility that I would click. Then I would go down and read that. 

### Task 5: [Find a Form]
*Let's say that you're considering going back to school to get your degree, and you'd like to see if the VA can help you pay for it. How might you apply online?*
From this page right. Click menu. Then I would click the plus at va benefits and health care. Then education and training. Um. I would probably, there are several that could apply. I would start with GI Bill benefits. Then how to apply. Those two. 

### Task 6: [Careers at VA]
*I want you to pretend that you're job hunting, and you're wondering if you could get a job at the VA. How might you do that from this web page?*
Well I would start with menu. I would probably go to about VA. I might do learn about VA. Probably go back. Click contact us. I might say I guess contact us through Ask VA, it’s not working. If that didn’t work I would try chatbot and put in employment through VA. I would be a little frustrated. I would go back and go to the usa.gov jobs website. 
How would you get there:
Put usajob.gov in the URL. 
Other paths: 
Call us would be my third choice. I guess the 4th would be contacting the location VA to see if they have a contact for VA jobs.
Did you see anything on the other page:
Other than the magnifying glass at the top you could put in va jobs. 

### Task 7: [Contact VA]
*Say that after using this website for a while, you didn't get all of your questions answered. How might you reach out to someone at the VA?*
I have the number of the local VA clinic and the phone number of the VA hospital in Tacoma that have a lot of resources and a live operator. The other thing I could do is go to va.gov then go through there. Those are the three that I can think of. 

If you had to use this page is there a way to do it here:
I would try the magnifying glass. It’s not working. Okay it came up. We talking about jobs at va so I would type va jobs. 

### Task 8: [FOIA]
 *Say that you heard of the Freedom of Information Act, and you want to learn more about it. How might you do that from this web page?*
I would use the magnifying glass and type in FOIA. 

How frequently do you navigate webpages with your phone: 
Every day. 

### Task 9: [Update your contact information with VA]
*Let's say that you recently moved and want to make sure that your mail and benefit information from the VA gets to your new address. I’d like you to update your address from this web page.*
Welp I might try the magnifying glass again. I might open it and in search type update mailing address to see what comes up.
Have you done it before:
No I haven’t

Any idea how to do it: 
I would login and look for my profile or personal settings and go into there. 

Can you pretend to login:
I would click sign in with one of the choices. 

Please use Login.gov: 
Email auto generated and password auto filled. Click sign in and it took me back to the page we were looking at. 

What would you do:
Right now I would expect a menu with choices like abc click here then click here then here. Personally, that’s what I would expect. Now I would just hunt through that page to find things. 

Where would you expect those options: 
At the top. 

Anywhere at the top you would look:
Right under it says talk to the veteran crisis line it should have bullets and then choices. That’s where I would expect to see it. 

Anywhere near by you would look:
Well the menu. 

Would you try that:
Under menu I see the name which is the logged in person so click there then under there it should have personal information. 

Go where you think you can see your own information:
I would click plus by Cameron and I would click profile. 

## Post-Task Interview 

1. *What stands out to you on this page that indicates this is an official government website?*
Well at the top it says usa government then under that US department of Veteran Affairs. Also at the top in the URL I would look there to see something that has va.gov to make sure its not a spoof. In real life I would suspect  this do to it saying Figma. It says usa government in three colors then government and under that US department of veteran affairs. Do you want me to click on it. 
What do they mean:
It implies it is an official government website. I don’t know how else to verify it other than the URL at the top. Previously I have seen the logo and this. The logo looks legitimate and I mean I am making an inference. If I really had any doubt I would look into it further. I would check the website and research the website. There are tools you can use to do that. I would copy the website and look into authentication tools to see if it is listed as a bogus website. 
Bottom of the page: (reading page) then beyond that there is some other stuff. Again it makes me think it is an official government website. It gives me a good feeling but like I said when I look at the URL is the big red flag. If I see va.gov then that gives me the good feeling or at least .gov. If I see something else like va.ru then I would think it wasn’t good. Or va.com or va.org. those aren’t official websites. 

Scroll up black/blue part thoughts:
Um the black part is telling me there is further official information like office of inspector general. Different legal stuff if I want to look into it. The blue part is information I want to know about the va and all. 
1. *How often do you use VA.gov?*
Serval times a week. Fairly familiar with it. I also use links to my local VA community clinic and the link to the va, VA travel. I have a few links on my computer. 
All different va websites: Yes there are several
1. *Do you use the VA mobile app? If so, how often?*
Yes. I am pretty sure tis the mobile app. Serval times a week. I also use it to help people at work. I am an IT system administrator. We deal with elderly people and disabled individuals. We work with a lot of veterans. 
Mobile app might be to show others: Yes sometimes it is because they know I am a veteran. They will have a question about how to get Mr. Jones in nursing care VA benefits or he’s homeless. So I will give them the URL and show them how to help get them benefits. 
1. *Overall, about everything you've seen in this session...What worked *well* for you?*
Menu button was good, the magnifying glass would be good if it was more responsive. It wouldn’t hurt to the right to have click here for further information. Those worked well. Then going down the page the resources are good. Connect with us needs more information such as for further va information connect with us, contact us is good but I would place something that says email us in there. 
1. *What was *unclear or didn't work well* for you?*

1. *What would you like to *change or add*?*
Looking under menu that says Cameron maybe have a subtitle for personal information or access profile. 
Wasn’t sure what would happen when you click the name: I was sure but there are some veterans that wouldn’t know and it doesn’t hurt to provide more information. 

How often do you sign in: 
Several times a week. Once I login, my name is at the top. 

That’s how you knew what to do:
Yeah that’s how I knew I was signed in and that’s the general va. When I sign into VA health benefits you can specify how you want to be called. 

1. *Is there anything else that we haven't talked about that you think I should know?* 
The little blue resources and support [breadcrumb], I might move that down toward the bottom. It might be to general. Maybe explain it more

Do you know what that is there: 
No not really I would have to click on it to see what it is. Oh okay. Just seeing it right here I don’t even know if I would click on it because it’s not eye catching. You might want to bold it and explain more about what it is if you want someone to click on it. 

## Thank You and Closing

*Are you still okay if we use any video or audio clips from this session?* Use all you want. 
- *(If participant says yes) Is there any part of our discussion that you would NOT want shared in a video clip?* You can share it all. 
