# June 26, 2023

`Big Meeting` `Onboarding` 

---

- Purpose: Discuss how to embed trauma informed guidance into VA onboarding
- Facilitator: Josh Kim
- Scribe: Tyler Gindraux
- Attendees: 15
- [Unabbreviated notes for the full scoop 🍦 ](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1z5OsfMtlnVp-ntPUi3zPUzw__1mwECqR9bMJygN04h0)

## Key Summary

### Researchers should feel more prepared and empowered for their first VA study 🤔

- **Joseph** shared his experience meeting Veterans and being surprised to hear very negative experiences or attitudes about VA. He noted how VA onboarding is, "good at process, design reviews, how they do design at scale, but covering the human elements in onboarding could be better. We should call out that a lot of Veterans have experienced a lot of trauma."
- As a researcher, **Megan** said she'd love more training on how to respond to someone who may be traumatized in a session, as well as how to take care of herself after those experiences.
- **Kate** wonders if this can go beyond knowing what to do once someone is triggered, and taking a more proactive approach. “Once someone is triggered, we’re not getting much after that.”
- Also, **Clayton** said that what helped him when onboarding to the Platform team was sitting in on a session to observe. He saw that someone was pretty unhappy with VA, for the first time. **Megan** asked if Clayton had help processing what he heard that day, and he did not.

### And that gap can be even bigger for folks who don't interact with Veterans 🕳️

- **Lydia** noted that folks who aren’t in a design or research role, such as an engineer, may not ever be in the position to learn firsthand some of the trauma a Veteran may be experiencing.
- There were a lot of +1's to this. And as **Julie** said, "...and it's felt like an extra job on our plate as researchers to educate our team."

### We have some ideas for *how* we might embed guidance into existing processes, and share what we're doing 💡

- **Tine** wondered if VA currently provides any staff training around Veteran trauma? Within VA.gov, most signs point to no. But in Chillicothe, **Martha** said they were piloting trauma-informed care training for all new employees at the local VAMC. They were trying to get funding to roll it out nationwide. She shared a [powerpoint in Slack](https://dsva.slack.com/archives/C04F9JLSATE/p1687814555527179?thread_ts=1687809403.153179&cid=C04F9JLSATE) and plans to see if we can bring this to OCTO on a regular basis somehow.
- Asynchronously, **Sudeepti** shared an idea of embedding trauma-informed guidance into portfolio specific onboardings too, such as, benefits onboarding.
- **Josh** wants to make sure that our guidance and community is welcoming to newcomers, so people don't feel like they need to have expderience at VA before they join in.
- **Joseph** said, “It’s almost like you need to have a social worker on the Platform team, as a resource."
- **Rachael** wondered how often people are onboarding to VA. She referenced that most medical centers will require people complete onboarding *before* they start. What might we learn from that approach?
- As we finished, **Lydia** helpfully reminded us of bandwith. “The need is going to exceed the capacity.” There will always be more ideas – but it’s trauma-informed to not overstretch ourselves.

## Action Items
- [ ] Josh reposted Liz Lantz's question about the Veteran Crisis Line: Reply if you have thoughts, please!
- [ ] Start a poll or conversation about a new time(s) for our regular big meeting
- [ ] Continue unpacking how we move the needle to bring in additional (paid, dedicated) resources to support this work
