Warm-up Questions - 10 minutes
•	Can you tell me a little about your service history? I was active duty in 88, until 92. Then when I came back to the US I did drilling reserve and that was after my newborn. I was then inactive reserve for many years. One weekend when they did an IRR checkup. Came back to NE and stayed in IR then joining the drilling reserve but my job didn’t work with it. I was called up in 2002 to go to Camp Lejeune and New river when active duty was going overseas. Then I was active duty in 07 to do the MCMAP program then I was in the IRR again. 
•	Have you visited a VA Facility for healthcare in the past year? Absolutely. Most recently it was a physical therapy follow up from the rotor cuff surgery right after thanksgiving. I was them last week and will see them again on Wednesday. 
•	Have you had any vaccines in the last 10 years? Can you share any reasons behind your decision? Flu, I probably have had the tetanus shot but I cant tell you when. Since I was hired with my civilian job I have always received my flu vaccine to9 just have it. 
Health Services Page - 5 minutes
Thank you! Now I want to and show you the webpage I mentioned that is on the VA.gov website.
I'm sharing my screen - do you see a web page with the title Health Services?  I do. 
Great. I want to walk through this example of how health services are shown on VA.gov.
MODERATOR SHARES SCREEN OF HEALTH SERVICES PAGE
Link to Health Services page --> Podiatry This page covers the types of health services found at a VA Healthcare facility. There are several categories, and just as an example, I am showing the section on Podiatry. Each section has a description of what is treated, like arthritis, bunions, and other foot care. Below that is information on location, contact information and making appointments.
Card Sort - 35 minutes	
BEGIN CARD SORT TASKS
Task 1 Scenario
For the first task, I’d like you to imagine that you are planning to get your annual Flu vaccine or shot, and would like to read information on the Flu vaccine provided by VA.gov:
Can talk me through why you chose this particular group (or create a new group)? Primary care, each time I go in I get asked each year. 
In making that selection, what information would you expect to see about getting the Flu vaccine? I think I would expect to see any reasons not to get the vaccine, side effects that could occur, and the ethical point of the vaccine. 
Would you search for flu or influenza? I think I would search for flu first and if nothing is found I would switch to influenza.
Have you had the flu vaccine? Yes
When you received it, was it part of a VA visit?  Yes, when I went in to have my shoulder looked at before surgery was scheduled and it was a follow up questions. 
Pharmacy visit? Town hall or other community-based vaccination program?  When I was still working at the sheriff’s office we would get it at work. 
Task 2 Scenario
For this second task, imagine that it has been many years since you last had a Tetanus shot, also known as a Tdap shot (tetanus, diphtheria, and pertussis), and would like to know more about how to receive this shot: 
Can talk me through why you chose this particular group (or create a new group)? I think it would be under primary care as well. It doesn’t dig on my radar much but I suppose if in general I was wondering how long ago it was. I would talk to my primary care when I went in for a visit, I wouldn’t make a separate appointment. 
In making that selection, what information would you expect to see about getting this shot? The same things, how often should I have it, possible side effects, pretty much that I guess. 
Have you received the Tdap (tetanus, diphtheria, and pertussis) vaccine or immunization / Do you know if you have received a Tdap booster? I have, I haven’t had a tetanus shot at the VA they have been at my former employment. 
Would you expect it to be part of a regular VA visit or a special visit?  Part of a regular visit provided there weren’t any injury.. if it were just I wonder when I had it, ii would do it during a primary care visit. 
When you received it, was it part of a VA visit?  No
Task 3 Scenario
Great! I have one more task with the tetanus vaccine or immunization. Imagine that it has been a few years since your last Tetanus booster. You have had a minor injury and think you might need a Tetanus booster. 
Can talk me through why you chose this particular group (or create a new group)? Likely urgent care. Well it would be an injury like stepping on a nail or cut my wire. I would go to urgent care because it takes longer to get a PCP visit, I would be concerned when I had my last one and I wouldn’t want to wait for a while to get one. 
In making that selection, what information would you expect to see about getting this shot? I think the same things, questions about what the incident was for urgent care, my last one was, the injury itself and if there are any side effects. 
Have you experienced this type of need in the past and received care? Yes but I was at work so they sent me over to the hospital to get the shot. Not part of the VA. 
Task 4 Scenario
For this next task, I’d like for you to imagine that you have many questions about the COVID-19 vaccine or immunization, its availability, and where you might go to receive it:
Can talk me through why you chose this particular group (or create a new group)?  I would go to primary care. I guess mainly what my doctors thoughts are on the vaccine with it being so new and there are many disease we cant find a vaccine for but then we have one for covid. I would want my doctors thoughts to wait or go with the initial one. 
In making that selection, what information would you expect to see about getting this vaccine or immunization? I think reasons to get the vaccine, general thoughts of its effectiveness, any cautions that they see the vaccine coming out so early. 
Would you search for Coronavirus vs COVID? COVID. 
Task 5 Scenario
For this task, imagine that you have read that it is important to get the Shingles vaccine or immunization once you have reached a certain age. You would like to know if the VA provides this service: 
Can talk me through why you chose this particular group (or create a new group)? Again primary care and I would send a secure message through the website. 
In making that selection, what information would you expect to see about getting this vaccine or immunization? I would expect to see the reasons to get the shot, reasons not to and any side effects. 
Have you gotten or plan to get the shingles vaccine?  Again I would need more information, I had chicken pox as a kid and I think I received the vaccine. I know my dad had it and it was painful so I would look for the information prior. 
Would you expect it to be part of a regular VA visit or a special visit? If I got them I would expect a special visit but if I were just getting up in years I would make a primary care visit to ask questions. 
Task 6 Scenario
For the last task, imagine you are considering a visit to Central America, and aren't sure if there are any vaccines or immunizations you need before going
Can talk me through why you chose this particular group (or create a new group)? I think mostly likely I would go to other services, not everyone travels a lot so I don’t know if it would come up in other visits unless I specifically needed it. 
In making that selection, what information would you expect to see about getting travel-related vaccines or immunizations? I would expect to see a list of countries and what vaccines each country requires and if getting those vaccines would prohibit or not prohibit your travel. 
Would you expect it to be part of a regular VA visit or a special visit? A special visit unless I had a visit coming up and I addressed it at that time but other than that it would be a special visit. 
Post-Task Questions - 5 minutes
In these tasks, you saw or heard words such as vaccines, vaccination, immunization, shot. What words connect with you? For me they are all interconnected. 
Did we miss any? I don’t think so. 
•	Any questions for me? Not at this time, I don’t believe so. 
Thank-You and Closing
Well we really appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us today. Your feedback is so helpful to us as we work to make vaccine information easy to find for Veterans.
Great, well thank you so much again, and enjoy the rest of your day!
