**Warm-up Questions - 10 minutes**

•	Can you tell me a little about your service history? Well I was in the service a long time ago in 1969 for the navy. I made it to the rank of E5 and serviced as an electronic technician. I was discharges in 1973. 
•	Have you visited a VA Facility for healthcare in the past year? Yes, I am a regular. The va healthcare program is my primary provider. I am very happy with the car4e I am receiving; I have no motivation to change it. I do have Medicare a and b as backup. I have found the VA very accommodating and easy to work with. The overall quality I have no complaints. I guess in a nutshell I am happy with them and I feel as if they are doing a good job. 
•	Have you had any vaccines in the last 10 years? Can you share any reasons behind your decision? The shingles, I had that within the past few years, flu vaccines for the past serval years. I don’t think there has been anything else. One of them were the high dosage due to being past 65. I can’t remember the shingles or flu, maybe both. I don’t know. I am being coming more of a component of taking the safe road, since I am older I do sense my immune system is not what it use to be and not a lot is as what it use to be so prevention is worth it. I have become more of an advocate of receiving the vaccines. 

**Health Services Page - 5 minutes**

Thank you! Now I want to and show you the webpage I mentioned that is on the VA.gov website.
I'm sharing my screen - do you see a web page with the title Health Services? I do. 
Great. I want to walk through this example of how health services are shown on VA.gov.

MODERATOR SHARES SCREEN OF HEALTH SERVICES PAGE

Link to Health Services page --> Podiatry This page covers the types of health services found at a VA Healthcare facility. There are several categories, and just as an example, I am showing the section on Podiatry. Each section has a description of what is treated, like arthritis, bunions, and other foot care. Below that is information on location, contact information and making appointments.

**Card Sort - 35 minutes**	

BEGIN CARD SORT TASKS

**Task 1 Scenario**

For the first task, I’d like you to imagine that you are planning to get your annual Flu vaccine or shot, and would like to read information on the Flu vaccine provided by VA.gov:
Can talk me through why you chose this particular group (or create a new group)? Basically the motivation as to why I am inquiring for the flu vaccine is to get information or to schedule it. 
It could be both, similar to the example: For the flu vaccine in my estimation it is so routine I would put it in primary care.  
Thoughts: Well every year everyone is urged to get the vaccine and most contacts I speak to are constantly getting a flu vaccine every year. The appeals that we hear every flu season is to get the vaccine. To be an extortionary event, it had become so common place that I think the loyalists for many and get their flu shot annual and it is a correct philosophy and I thought I wanted to adhere to it. It is an annual spring event but in fall. It becomes an annual common place even and is not out of the ordinary. 
In making that selection, what information would you expect to see about getting the Flu vaccine? Side effects, place to receive it, risks involved as it relates to age. I think that would do it. I rely on the medical person and I think they do their best shot. 
Would you search for flu or influenza? I would initially go with flu. Although I would expect to see flu/influenza. 
Have you had the flu vaccine? Yes
 When you received it, was it part of a VA visit? Yes, it is. 
Pharmacy visit? Town hall or other community-based vaccination program?  Yes, I have. 
Where: My most recent one was Walgreens, both on year when they were in conjunction with the VA and prior to that was the year before when they were an independent. I also had them done where I work. I am retired but I work part time as a driver for a local old age home. I do their transportation they had an event one year and I said lets do it. It was non-va but an outside pharmacy for those resident. 

**Task 2 Scenario**

For this second task, imagine that it has been many years since you last had a Tetanus shot, also known as a Tdap shot (tetanus, diphtheria, and pertussis), and would like to know more about how to receive this shot: 
Can talk me through why you chose this particular group (or create a new group)? For tetanus I would place it in specialty care, I don’t know a lot about it but I know about the times in my past I have either gotten a rusty nail in my foot or a piece of glass in my hand. A number of difference instances that required me to have one. Weather I was up to date or not they gave me the shot. I was never really aware of what the time frame is it, when I got my last one, I have always been really ignorant of it, I don’t even know what it does to someone. But if there is a puncture and its dirty it is necessary, I don’t  all it urgent or emergency but it is a special assistance I will need. 
In making that selection, what information would you expect to see about getting this shot? Where I can get it, who to contact, how to schedule if I can go in or have to make an appointment, and maybe an opportunity to describe the wound in case I need to get in then. I don’t know if there is a timeframe depending on material. What should I do in the meantime or would I be advised to come in immediately. 
Have you received the Tdap (tetanus, diphtheria, and pertussis) vaccine or immunization / Do you know if you have received a Tdap booster?  Yes, many times. Booster: I think so. Again lots of confusion of the shot and the booster but I think I did when I amputated a portion of my figure is when the loaded me up with everything. 
Would you expect it to be part of a regular VA visit or a special visit?  No this was at a local hospital 

**Task 3 Scenario**

Great! I have one more task with the tetanus vaccine or immunization. Imagine that it has been a few years since your last Tetanus booster. You have had a minor injury and think you might need a Tetanus booster. 
Can talk me through why you chose this particular group (or create a new group)? Specialty care, I will differentiate. For injury I would call specialty and booster I would put into primary care. 

**Task 4 Scenario**

For this next task, I’d like for you to imagine that you have many questions about the COVID-19 vaccine or immunization, its availability, and where you might go to receive it:
Can talk me through why you chose this particular group (or create a new group)? You know on that one I would put it into other services. In my mind COVID-19 to the extent of our experience, this is a one time event. Now I don’t know if we are on a curve or will be annual, it is an extraordinary thing. COVID may become routine as well but for me the COVID-19 is extraordinary for a lot of reasons and its infancy. In the list of things to go to the doctor for, this is a unique event in my mind. 
In making that selection, what information would you expect to see about getting this vaccine or immunization? 
Would you search for Coronavirus vs COVID? I think I would do a search using the key word COVID. 

**Task 5 Scenario**

For this task, imagine that you have read that it is important to get the Shingles vaccine or immunization once you have reached a certain age. You would like to know if the VA provides this service: 
Can talk me through why you chose this particular group (or create a new group)? Shingles goes into my estimation to primary care. Well for a lot of  the same reasons as flu, it is not unheard of not uncommon. It is well known and is also very highly touted as seniors should be vaccinated for, doctor recommends it and advertises for it. Most folk know of it and have had it. It is not a unique disaster. It is a common place for the militated that are there but are not mysteries. They are well known and well-advertised for.  It is as common as tetanus and flu. 
In making that selection, what information would you expect to see about getting this vaccine or immunization? Who can provide it, how I can receive it, who to contact and when I can have it. 
Have you gotten or plan to get the shingles vaccine? Yes
When you received it, was it part of a VA visit? Yes, I think it was a double thing. I think I had to have it twice because of my age. You get an initial and have to get another one as well. 

**Task 6 Scenario**

For the last task, imagine you are considering a visit to Central America, and aren't sure if there are any vaccines or immunizations you need before going
Can talk me through why you chose this particular group (or create a new group)? Immediately because I am not at home, no matter the issue I have an emergency. I don’t know if I had the will or desire to look through the warranties to get help on the road. I am not at home so I am not as comfortable or know where I need to go so the problem becomes more complicated because I am not home. The issue to me says time must be a consideration because I don’t know how far I have to go. I am out hanging. In my mind it is on emergency status so I would put it in emergency care. I may have misconstrued travel vaccines; in my mind I was thinking of someone that happened while I was on the road but that’s not what you intended.
Clarification in questions: I would put it in specialty care then obviously I am local but it will take me out of the area. I would look at specialty.  
In making that selection, what information would you expect to see about getting travel-related vaccines or immunizations? I would need to know the timeframe needed prior to departure; I would need to know who/where/scheduling/contact infomration to receive it. I would also like to know what I am receiving and why. I recall the service when going over seas we had certain shots for where you’re going. If you go to one crap hole you get a set or somewhere else you get different things. I would like to know what I am getting just incase of side effects. Yeah, I put it in specialty. 
Would you expect it to be part of a regular VA visit or a special visit? Special visit, if I say I am going to the jungles of Brazil, should I expect them to have it on board. No. 

**Post-Task Questions - 5 minutes**

In these tasks, you saw or heard words such as vaccines, vaccination, immunization, shot. What words connect with you? Well they all connect with me but I would try to think hard about what inoculation and how it is normally used. The vaccinations or immunizations would come to mind. 
Did we miss any? No I mean, these are the ones that we see and hear so much of. Any of the others, you know they are off the beaten path. So, in my mind they fall into the miscellaneous bucket. I am sure there are a large volume of inoculations, if it is to far off the beaten path I couldn’t give you a list. 
Any questions for me? I don’t. I understand what you are doing. My background is a double E for kodak for many years. I appreciate it actually. 

**Thank-You and Closing**

Well we really appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us today. Your feedback is so helpful to us as we work to make vaccine information easy to find for Veterans.

Great, well thank you so much again, and enjoy the rest of your day!
