**Warm-up Questions - 10 minutes**

•	Can you tell me a little about your service history? I served 6 years in army national guard.
•	Have you visited a VA Facility for healthcare in the past year? Yes. So I think it has been pushing three years when I learned I could have va healthcare. I get my annual checkups, the women’s health clinic. I also for my service connected purposed, I was doing mental health visits as well. Before covid I was at the VA frequency, even took yoga and used the va gym here. COVID has changed that. 
•	Have you had any vaccines in the last 10 years? Can you share any reasons behind your decision? I would say the only one I think within the two years I received a flu shot once. That is all received within the past 10 years. Well I have been thinking about this with the COVID vaccine, normally I wouldn’t go out of my way to get the flu vaccine. It would be if I already has an appointment and I had an appointment I would get the flu vaccine. I don’t think I have ever made an appointment to get the flu vaccine. 

**Health Services Page - 5 minutes**

Thank you! Now I want to and show you the webpage I mentioned that is on the VA.gov website.
I'm sharing my screen - do you see a web page with the title Health Services?  Yes
Great. I want to walk through this example of how health services are shown on VA.gov.

MODERATOR SHARES SCREEN OF HEALTH SERVICES PAGE

Link to Health Services page --> Podiatry This page covers the types of health services found at a VA Healthcare facility. There are several categories, and just as an example, I am showing the section on Podiatry. Each section has a description of what is treated, like arthritis, bunions, and other foot care. Below that is information on location, contact information and making appointments.

**Card Sort - 35 minutes**

BEGIN CARD SORT TASKS

**Task 1 Scenario**

For the first task, I’d like you to imagine that you are planning to get your annual Flu vaccine or shot, and would like to read information on the Flu vaccine provided by VA.gov:
Can talk me through why you chose this particular group (or create a new group)? Any time I have received a flu vaccine it has been with my primary care doctor. I would say also because of the times, the urgent cares by me have limited things but I have gone to get tested for COVID at urgent care and I am not allowed in the va unless I have a certain appointment so I would look at urgent care to. 
In making that selection, what information would you expect to see about getting the Flu vaccine? Like as far as the process of the vaccine or about the flu. Do I already know about the flu so I just need to know when and where I would get it or am I someone that don’t know the flu symptoms.  Probably what to expect if there were any symptoms form the vaccine, I have a 6 year old daughter so I would be curious how it relates to that age group, then they have the vaccine for the flu but a different strain came out. I would like to know what strain the vaccine is for. The timeframe, I know fall and winter is prime time. I would be curious how far in advance can you get the vaccine and it still serve a purpose. 
Have you had the flu vaccine? Yes
When you received it, was it part of a VA visit? Yes
Pharmacy visit? Town hall or other community-based vaccination program?  I think so, honestly I didn’t have healthcare for a while before I was in with the va. It was probably before the 10 year mark. When I was pregnant I think I got it but I was already at an appointment. I could honestly say I have never researched about the flu vaccine because it is actively like I need to get it and figure out what it is. It has always been part of another appointment. 

**Task 2 Scenario**

For this second task, imagine that it has been many years since you last had a Tetanus shot, also known as a Tdap shot (tetanus, diphtheria, and pertussis), and would like to know more about how to receive this shot: 
Can talk me through why you chose this particular group (or create a new group)? At a primary care visit it would be brought up just for the routine. I think that it probably it from my own thoughts. If I didn’t have a primary care doctor I might look at urgent care. I would always call urgent care first when I didn’t have a primary care doctor but now I do at the va. 
In making that selection, what information would you expect to see about getting this shot? 
Have you received the Tdap (tetanus, diphtheria, and pertussis) vaccine or immunization / Do you know if you have received a Tdap booster?  Yes, I did get it. I got it at the VA probably last year and it was related to an injury. Not a routine one. Maybe back when I was in the military. 

**Task 3 Scenario**

Great! I have one more task with the tetanus vaccine or immunization. Imagine that it has been a few years since your last Tetanus booster. You have had a minor injury and think you might need a Tetanus booster. 
Can talk me through why you chose this particular group (or create a new group)? Again I would say all of them would go to primary care but I could put this in three places. Urgent care and emergency care as well as primary care because it is injury related. I did go to the ER at the va for the injury so for when I got my most recent tetanus shot it was the VA ER. 

**Task 4 Scenario**

For this next task, I’d like for you to imagine that you have many questions about the COVID-19 vaccine or immunization, its availability, and where you might go to receive it:
Can talk me through why you chose this particular group (or create a new group)? Like I said just primary care if I was l looking for information or getting the vaccine. It is just me curious about information. I would still link it to primary care, I feel like primary care is linked with all of your health and with the unknowns about COVID 19 I think that is something I want my doctor to know about. I am torn between specialty and urgent care. I would put it in urgent care since I have been getting my COVID 19 tests there. I could look at the vaccine information there. 

**Task 5 Scenario**

For this task, imagine that you have read that it is important to get the Shingles vaccine or immunization once you have reached a certain age. You would like to know if the VA provides this service: 
Can talk me through why you chose this particular group (or create a new group)? Definitely primary care again, I know someone my age that got shingles and it doesn’t sound pleasant but I would also say specialty care. Well I feel like for me its not something that is part of my normal health screen so I would deem that a specialty care type of vaccine. Its not part of your normal annual visit, you don’t get checked for it. 
In making that selection, what information would you expect to see about getting this vaccine or immunization? I guess I would want to know when should I be aware of getting the vaccine, who it effects, effectiveness. Are there symptoms from it, do I only need it once. Stuff like that. That makes me curious, I want to google if I need each it year. 
Have you gotten or plan to get the shingles vaccine?  Yeah, I  have heard it runs in my family so that is something I want to keep in thought. Again the person that got it is my age now so you never know. I don’t know if it is heredity either so I am curious in the information I find. 
Would you expect it to be part of a regular VA visit or a special visit? If it turned out I could get it or it is an issue I would make a special visit for that. 

**Task 6 Scenario**

For the last task, imagine you are considering a visit to Central America, and aren't sure if there are any vaccines or immunizations you need before going
Can talk me through why you chose this particular group (or create a new group)? Probably primary care again. I don’t know if it would be other services, I don’t know. I it not ER infomration, that is normally aftermath, other services, what does it mean. Is it kind of like dermatology or podiatry. It is one of those things when you don’t find it you always look at the other services like a backup. Primary care, if they have to limit the top three then the others may go to other services. 
In making that selection, what information would you expect to see about getting travel-related vaccines or immunizations? To me it would be a breakdown of different parts of the world, countries. The recommended vaccines based on what the country is at risk for. Some people would be looking at it after the fact to know if they didn’t get vaccinated prior to going and what to do. They may click through and end up 5 pages deep, sometimes that happens. 
Would you expect it to be part of a regular VA visit or a special visit? If I were going out of country it would be a special visit. 

**Post-Task Questions - 5 minutes**

In these tasks, you saw or heard words such as vaccines, vaccination, immunization, shot. What words connect with you? Out of those, no I think those three are what I would use for reference. 

**Thank-You and Closing**

Well we really appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us today. Your feedback is so helpful to us as we work to make vaccine information easy to find for Veterans.

Great, well thank you so much again, and enjoy the rest of your day!
