# Conversation Guide for health care application generative research study around Priority Groups and Financial Disclosure Updates [Health Enrollment Team, 10-10EZ, July 2023]

**Notes from DK**

## Moderator logistics
### 2-3 days before the session
- Review VA Platform's [Research Checklist](https://depo-platform-documentation.scrollhelp.site/research-design/Research-Checklist.1958773011.html#ResearchChecklist-5.Conductsessions). 

### Day of the session
- Use [#feedback-backchannel](https://dsva.slack.com/messages/C40B45NJK/details/) in 
Slack for real-time feedback from observers.
- Mute your Slack notifications.
- Send out the [observer instructions](https://depo-platform-documentation.scrollhelp.site/research-design/Observer-guidelines.1622311177.html) to your observers (Slackbot will do this for you if you type "observer instructions" into [#feedback-backchannel](https://dsva.slack.com/channels/feedback-backchannel)).
- Open a new window and login into the [test user account](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team-sensitive/blob/master/Administrative/vagov-users/mvi-staging-users.csv) (80) for backup 


### Starting the session

- In the Attendees section, make sure everyone except the participant is on mute.
- In the Participant "more" menu, make sure "Play Join and Leave Sound" is unchecked
- Check your [screensharing setup] and share permissions for participants.
- When the participant is ready, begin the session with the following intro*



## Intro - 5 minutes

Thanks for joining us today! My name is [Jessica/DK/Katelyn/Hieu] and [NOTETAKER NAME] is taking notes.
I also have a couple other colleagues in the Zoom waiting room who would like to observe and take notes. But before we get to them... 

Today we're going to talk about the health care application experience but mostly focusing on what happens after around benefits and updates.

Before we start, a few things I want to mention:

- **This entire session should take about 1 hour.** I want to be sure not to keep you much longer, so I may occasionally prompt you with the next question or topic.
- **In this session, we want to hear your honest opinions.** We are not testing your ability. We just want to improve these tools to better meet Veteran's needs. I will not be offended by any opinions you express, and I welcome your feedback.
- **If for any reason and at any time you want to stop the session, please let me know. You'll be compensated no matter how much of the session we complete.** 
- Perigean did ask for your consent to allow observers, but I want to be sure before we get going. **Are you okay with a couple of additional observers during this session?**
   - If no: Use Slack to kindly ask the observers to leave the Zoom.
   - If yes: Admit observers. 
    - Then, ask the notetaker and observers to give a brief, camera-on, introduction, like their first name and position with VA.gov. (This is meant to humanize the interaction of observation for the participant)
   - Once complete ask notetaker and observers to turn off their cameras for remainder of the session to save bandwidth
- **Are you comfortable if I record my screen and audio as we talk today?** We use the recordings to confirm that we have captured your opinions accurately. The recordings are destroyed after we complete the analysis, and none of your comments will be attributed to you directly. We either report findings out in groups (i.e., 5 out of 10 participants said this) or if we want to quote you directly, we take away any identifying information and give you a participant ID, like P7. Knowing that, are you comfortable if I record my screen and audio as we talk today?
- Last one - one of the ways that we share findings with our partners across VA is by showing short video clips of sessions with Veterans. In these video clips, we blur out any information that could possibly be used to identify you, like your onscreen image. Sharing these video clips can be a compelling way for our partners to better understand what Veterans go through when using VA.gov and our digital products. These clips will not be shared outside of the VA. We don't know at this point if we will or not but like to ask ahead of time. I'll also confirm at the end of the interview that this is okay with you, so you will get a chance to veto this once you know what we've talked about. 
    - Knowing this, **would you be comfortable if we decided to use a clip of our session with you to help our partners understand Veteran's experiences?** 
    - If yes: **Once I start recording, I am going to confirm that you are ok with me recording this session once more.** 

*Start recording.*

- **I have started recording**. I'd like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record my screen and the audio as we talk today?
- **Are you comfortable if we decide to use a recorded clip from our discussion today to share with other VA partners, if we remove any information that can be used to identify you?**

  
## Warm-up Questions  - 3 minutes

Let’s start with a couple warm-up questions.

- How long have you been enrolled in and using health care benefits from the VA?

Going on a year in Aug.

- How often do you visit VA.gov online and do you sign in every time you visit?
  
Three to eight times a month. Usually log in every time.

## First Topic: [Application Process] - 10 minutes

- Can you explain to me in your own words the process when you applied for health care benefits?

I thought it was pretty straightforward. Clear where to find the application and benefits. Mentions page with eligibility requirements. You have to answer questions about service history. "I'm tech savvy. I found it easy."

- [If they don't specify] Did you apply online, in-person or via paper application by yourself?

Applied online.

- What resources did you use to understand what health care benefits you might qualify for during this process?

I was more concerned on how to become eligible. Separated from active duty in 07. From reserves in 13. Mentioned "other pages for VA Health." "I poked around on all of the VA.gov site."

- How would you describe the process that happened after you completed your application, such as things you had to do, additional information you had to provide, communications from the VA, your first appointment, etc.?

"I think I got a conformation and that it would be evaluated." Mentioned getting this mixed up with disability. Thinks got sent a letter with status. I didn't need to provide any additional information. Remember being assigned to a dacility. All of that was new to me, so I didn't know about that. Facility was far away.

- Now that you have been using your benefits, I would like you to think back and recall if there is anything that would have been helpful for you to know during your application process that you have learned after you enrolled?

During the application, I had no idea how that differs from my insurance. I wasn't sure at the time what it was. Got info through the handbook later on. I wish I had known thew VA isn't an insurance carrier. "You can get benefits there. It's still confusing to me." Doesn't want to mix military/civilian life.

- How have you - if at all - been notified since you enrolled that you had to provide updated information?

Not that I know of. It's just contact information. Now logs on with ID.me. Not through eHealth any longer. Was prompted to to this. Maybe to conform the information. Don't remember anything in the mail.

### Things to watch for:
- [What terminology does the Veteran use as they talk about their experience?]
- [How does the Veteran portray the overall process - easy, difficult, uneventful?]
- [How does the Veteran describe the process of figuring out what they are eligible for - are they frustrated or do they find it easy?]
- [What does the Veteran call out about the process after the initial application and around managing their benefits?]
- [What pain points or areas of confusion are revealed?]


## Second Topic: [Priority Group - Awareness] - 5 minutes
- Can you tell me more about what Priority Group you are in for your health care benefits now?

Mentions her book. Doesn't remember the number. "That's the only place I think I saw priority level." Other than that, no one told me about it. It was a lot of self learning. I can't imagine a layperson doing this."

[If aware of Priority Groups]
- Can you please describe how this was communicated to you and how you understood the impact to you and your benefits?
- Before you completed enrollment, how were you aware of Priority Groups or copays as part of the health care benefits package?
- [if yes] Can you tell me more about what you knew before you applied and how you learned that information?

[If NOT aware of Priority Groups, ask question and skip to fourth topic]
- What do you think Priority Groups are? There is no right or wrong answer here, just explain your understanding of what you think it could be and how that is important to health care benefits. 




### Things to watch for:
- [Do Veterans' confidently know their Priority Group and what that means to them and their benefits?]
- [What is the current process and experience around Priority Groups?]
- [What are the knowledge gaps around Priority Groups and health care costs?]
- [What things would Veterans like to see or like to change in regards to Priority Groups?]

---

## Third Topic: [Priority Group - Future State] - 5 minutes
- Where are some places that you would like to be able to view your Priority Group number? Why?

Right on the main health page. Where you can communicate with doctors and disability level. I don't know if it's important enough to be in my face. Mentions maybe in the profile section. It might mention everything i need to get started.

- How would this be helpful to you?
- What type of information is important to you to have access to about your Priority Group and your health care benefits?

I haven't looked at the book in 10 months. I want to click on it and know what it means. Wants to know what you get with it.

- Is there anything you find confusing about how your Priority Group impacts you today that you wish the VA would provide more clarity on?


### Things to watch for:
- [Do Veterans call out VA.gov as where they would expect to find this information? Do they list VA Profile?]
- [Do Veterans mention other channels to find and manage this information - Profile, MHV, mobile, etc?]
- [What information do Veterans want to know about their Priority Group?]


---

## Fourth Topic: [Updates post enrollment] - 5 minutes
- Changing directions a bit now, since you enrolled, have you had to make any updates to your information since your initial application?

Had to submit name change. Ask what info? Hated name change process. Couldn't do it online. Had to call them and mail them a bunch of stuff. Had to send them a bunch of stuff. Didn't know where the process was at. Name changed and that was it. VA.gov and VA Health wasn't connecting. Would call and they couldn't change anything. Drove me nuts. Moved and had to change address when moved to Vegas. Had to change it in multiple places. Nervous about missing something.

- If yes:
   - Can you please tell me more about that. What did you have to update and how was that experience for you?
   - How were you notified or how did you find out you needed to supply that updated information?
   - Is there anything about that experience that you wish you could change?
   - Did you have to make updates for other benefits too or just health care?


## [Financial Disclosure] - 5 minutes
- How would you see a change in income impacting your health care benefits?

I hope not. As a Vet, we deserve the benefits. Regardless of how you're doing after, I think it's a right. I would hate it. I really like the VA Health benefits right now, and how I can do everything in one place. Moved three times in six years. Having this benefit should remain forever. People in poverty, it's okay if they don't pay.

- How would you want to be notified to provide your updated financial information?


## [Dependents] - 5 minutes
- Have you ever had a need to make changes to your dependents for VA benefits? If so, can you tell me more about that experience.

Has two children. Haven't had to change there. They were born after service. Didn't add them. Didn't know she could add them. There's a lot of self learning. Someone she met told her she was qualified.

- Ideally if you had to make changes to your dependents, can you explain to me how you would go about doing that?


### Things to watch for:
- [What is the current process and pain points when making updates to post enrollment?]
- [What type of information is mentioned as what has been or they could see being updated?]



## Fifth Topic: [EZR Tasks - SCENARIO] - 10 minutes

- I would like to ask if you are comfortable sharing your screen and walking through a task on VA.gov?
- Please be sure to close any personal information, like email, Facebook, etc., before you share your screen.

- For this scenario, you received a communication to update your annual income for your health benefits to maintain your copay and travel reimbursement costs. 

[Notification and process]
- How would you like to receive this communication that you need to provide updated financial information?

Online mail. Email or notification. I look for messages when I get an email about it.

- What would you want to know in this communication about how and why you need to update your financial information?

How will I be affected if I go below a threshold. Wants to know all at once and not later.

- I would like to ask you to show me where and how you would expect to accomplish this online. 
- [Share link to https://VA.gov in Zoom chat]


[Where to find]
- Now as you open the link in the chat, from the VA.gov home page, can you walk me through where you would expect to go to update your annual income?

Who's asking? VA or VA Health? Would sign in first. Goes to My VA first. Mentions it would be nice to have a banner as a reminder.

I've never done it. I would to to my profile under My VA. I hate that departments don't talk to each other. I would go here first to update so that it applies to all the departments. I would want another tab here for financial information. It doesn't fall into the things here.

- Please remember to talk aloud about your thought process as you go.


  


[**IF** they state the would go to the VA Profile to update this information]
- Are you comfortable logging in to your own VA profile account? 
- [If no] Or would you rather have me share my screen and a test account with you and we can talk through the rest of this together?
   - [Backup =  which test account FOR MODERATOR to login to if there are concerns or issues with screen sharing after they state they would update this in Profile, Moderator would need to share their screen at this point]
      - Test user 80



[Possible prompts]
- Can you explain to me why you went [here] to update your financial information?
- Talk to me about where you would expect to find the ability to complete this task and why.
- [Possible prompt to remind them that this task is not available today if they get hung up looking for it, but want to know where you would expect to find it if it was made available]
- What would you be looking for when you first login to update this information? Something in the sidebar or a notification?
- Would you think this fits with any of the existing options or would you expect this to be something new?
- What would you expect this new section to be called?



  


### Things to watch for:
- [Where does the Veteran initially think to go to access this information? Do they validate hypothesis and go to their profile or do they look in other places to update this information?]
- [How does the Veteran expect to find this information from the home page or do they mention notifications or other paths as preferred ways to make these updates?]
- [How does the Veteran want to be communicated to and aware of what they need to do in regards to annual income updates?]


----

## Post-Task Interview - 2 minutes

- Is there anything else you would like to add about what we talked about today?

It's easier these days to find stuff and apply. As more people separate, they're more into online stuff. It would be good to get communications from them. I like when they give you more chances to see what benefits are available. Would expect some Veterans to call or do things in person. Wants things in her face. Hard to dig around and find things.

- Any questions for me?


## Thank-You and Closing - 3 minutes

Well we really appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us today. Your feedback is so helpful to us as we continue to work on the site and make sure it really works for Veterans.

Thanks! Lastly, Perigean will be sending you a thank you note with a little blurb that you can pass along to other Veterans you may know to provide them the chance to participate in future research studies.

Thank you so much again, and enjoy the rest of your day!

##

## Emergency Exit

[In the rare case of an emergency during a session, be prepared with an [emergency exit strategy](https://depo-platform-documentation.scrollhelp.site/research-design/Research-Safety-and-Emergency-Exit-Strategies.2143649793.html#ResearchSafetyandEmergencyExitStrategies-Sampleexitstrategies). Plan to include here at least one option, so its easy to find during a session. Take some time to practice so it feels more comfortable.]
