# Conversation Guide for health care application generative research study around Priority Groups and Financial Disclosure Updates [Health Enrollment Team, 10-10EZ, July 2023]
### P3
Friday July 28, 2023 at 12pm ET / 9am PT
 

## Warm-up Questions  - 3 minutes

Let’s start with a couple warm-up questions.

> How long have you been enrolled in and using health care benefits from the VA?
- Enrolled and using since 2018
  
> How often do you visit VA.gov online and do you sign in every time you visit?
> - I use it about 2 times a week. I do sign in every time. I use it, I use ID dot me I think, I use that to sign in.
  

## First Topic: [Application Process] - 10 minutes

> Can you explain to me in your own words the process when you applied for health care benefits?

- So I remember not knowing a lot of the answers to the questions. I got out of the military in 2015 but didn't know that I could apply for VA benefits until 2018.
- I was working with a Vet center group with one of the colleges and they walked me through how to apply online.
- I remmber not knowing what a protected Veteran was or if I technially was a combat Veteran. I guess I guessed then I asked the people who were familiar with it asked them and they walked me thorugh it.
- I was at a community college and they had a Vet center there that helped. There were helping me with GI Bill, they asked if I had enrolled with the VA. 
  
> What resources did you use to understand what health care benefits you might qualify for during this process?
[Vet center at community college]
- I leaned on them a lot. Growing up I never had health care and then when I did have health care in the military I didn't really use it because I was busy just doing my job
- When they told me that, I believe for 5 years, I may be wrong. I think for 5 years Since stationed in a combat zone I had free health care for that period. I thoguht i have already wasted 3 years and enroll and get physicals done. I had issues, had things, would have been considered diabaling things, I should have been getting treatment for but I didn't know.

- Once I did enroll and got my physical, the VA I thought was an hour away from me. Found out there were satelties that were closer. It was a whole new world. I didn't know there was a VA down the street from me, how to use them, about perscriptions. Alot of that was talked to me about.
- They were really helpful in explaining categories. Which also was another thing, just being around Veterans, they will ask me similar things. What differnet categories are and perscriptions and copays. I was new to healthcare to begin with, so I wasn't familiar with copays or secondary insurances.
- They gave a lot of information, Not all at once, as I was using it I would ask me. I would ask about my perscriptions. There is an annual form you fill out to update your information. Stuff like that, learning in the process. 

[When you say categories, what do you mean by that?]
- I mean, I know that there are, there is Category 1-5 I want to say, depending on when you served you may or you may not have a copy.
- At first I thought I have VA health care, first I didn't know it existed, then I thought it was free. And then I found out it was free for some people for a certain amount of time. For me 5 years. And then I learned about copays and the differnece of medications
- Then copays some are $5, some are $8 some are 11
- My boyfreind is also a Veteran, and he had been using his medications and had not been paying for them.
- I guess just how to use it, they were helpful. 
  
- I did my application process twice. I did it once, I did it and I was waiting to get a card in the mail. At the end of it, you will get, I forgot what it is called, PIC, I thought I needed that before I could start using it.
- It sat for 6-8 months, that's when I got with the people at the Veterans center
- Becuase I used Kaiser I knew there was a card I would have to carry.
- They fresh started me and helped me apply at the computer lab
- That was at the end of 2018.


> How would you describe the process that happened after you completed your application, such as things you had to do, additional information you had to provide, communications from the VA, your first appointment, etc.? 

- Actually about the card, I didn't get a card until about 3 months ago. And that's been years. I think alot of the confusion, It said I would get a card in the mail, and I didn't. And I waited. It Said I would have to come into the health center, the VA, to verify my identity and take my picture. And that I would get a picture id. 
- Couldn't figure out where that place was, and asked around. No one really knew where to go and no one 
Did it online during COVID and got it in the mail like months ago.

- I never got a booklet, it is funny you say a booklet. Because a lot of the stuff after the application I just scheduled a primary, I was using it as a primary. I never got a booklet, not sure what booklet you are talking about. Is there an enrollment thing that gets sent out?

> Now that you have been using your benefits, I would like you to think back and recall if there is anything that would have been helpful for you to know during your application process that you have learned after you enrolled?

- I think just like what the next steps were. Enrolling felt a little confusing because it was online, but i think If there had been a person to talk to. Which at the same time I know it would be great to just do everyrthing online and be done. But I think having an actuall A person to ask questions, how do I use it, what are my next steps, do I need a card, did I do my enrollment right.
- A person contact, so you know how to use it. I contacted a lot of people at the Veteans center TO have that human question back and forth. 

> How have you - if at all - been notified since you enrolled that you had to provide updated information?

- It happened, I think it only happened once. I don't know if COVID had anything to do with it. like maybe, I had in my mind it was a yearly thing. Since I applied for enrollment I am now category 1 because of my disability rating, so I don't have to update it. 
- But I did get a tax informatino thing to update my private insurance.
- They sent me something to was like if you have a primary insurance just let us know. At the time I kept thinking, VA is my primary insurance I don't know what that means. Now I have a job where I am eligible to have a primary insurance, and now I am paying for a primary insurance but I still use the VA. becuase I learned how to use the VA and don't want to use something different. 


### Things to watch for:
- [What terminology does the Veteran use as they talk about their experience?]
- [How does the Veteran portray the overall process - easy, difficult, uneventful?]
- [How does the Veteran describe the process of figuring out what they are eligible for - are they frustrated or do they find it easy?]
- [What does the Veteran call out about the process after the initial application and around managing their benefits?]
- [What pain points or areas of confusion are revealed?]


## Second Topic: [Priority Group - Awareness] - 5 minutes
> Can you tell me more about what Priority Group you are in for your health care benefits now?
- Vaugly I can tell you. I ended up getting rated 70%, and category 1 if you are above 50%, you don't have a copay for your medications.
- Now I am still kind of grainy, maybe I should ask, but I get perscriptions in the mail, but as far as other medications. Or over the counter. I don't know how that works. I don't use it that way.
- My perscription medication I don't pay for those and I have a lot so I am really gratelful
- I think I use most of my benefits I know of, there is stuff I don't know.
- Like the ins and outs of dental. I don't know if when I applied for VA benefits, if dental was separate, there is a dental office that is very separate. Because I have TMJ have experience with dental for mouthguards but not for dental coverage.
- And sometimes I have asked people at the VA how that works, I know now that now there is a program you can pay for dental coverage which I have been looking into.becuase I have asked before if I am covered if I can be good covered, or if I'm not, how I can be becuase I like going to the VA. And I have gotten mixed answers.
- At the end of the day now I think I am going to enroll for the monthly Veteran dental plan, like $9.99 a month
- Got mixed answers at dental
- Asked my primary, she told me to ask dental, becuase I had an appointment with them. she told me to ask them when they were there ANd I did
- The receptionist told me she didn't know, but thought I had to be 100% covered to do cleanings, not my mouth guard
- ANd I asked the person doing the molds, and she didn't know either. 

- Sorry there is more, they told me to go to the enrollment office, I think it is called something else, the enrollment office, they didn't know either.
- I know this plan exists for dental coverage, maybe becuase it is so new, it is not very known from the people who are around. 


[If aware of Priority Groups]
> Can you please describe how this was communicated to you and how you understood the impact to you and your benefits?
- So it wasn't really communicated
- On VA.gov, I think there was an update. And I saw it on the left, like the link tree, and all of a sudden at the bottom it said "pay your bill" 
- And I thought - "Oh, do I have a bill?" Like maybe it didn't show up before because I didn't have a bill before and now I do
- So I clicked on it and it said no bill available, cause I don't get a copay
- So then I was clicking around through VA.gov, VA has a lot of information, BUT the way I found it was Googling. And then I googled VA bill and found the link and then did it that way
- But now, I know VA.gov has been updated since then, so now I can find so much information
- I use VA.gov alot, for MyHealtheVet, I use to make sure my payments are going correctly, I use to check on my labs. I use it pretty often.

> Veterans relied on at community college, did you ask them questions about Priority Groups/categories?
- I did, most of them, not most but the people I was friends with had a higher disability rating
- So it was, I don't want to say uncomfortable, but like some of them didn't want to talk about it, if they got paid or not
- Some of them didn't know because they were rated at 100% they didn't know copyas existed or categories existed, they just knew that is where they got their treatment, and under their eyes if they have an issue the VA should treat me and that is all they really cared about. 
- They didn't know about the categories, The director of the Veterans center knew and that is who told me


### Things to watch for:
- [Do Veterans' confidently know their Priority Group and what that means to them and their benefits?]
- [What is the current process and experience around Priority Groups?]
- [What are the knowledge gaps around Priority Groups and health care costs?]
- [What things would Veterans like to see or like to change in regards to Priority Groups?]

---

## Third Topic: [Priority Group - Future State] - 5 minutes
> Where are some places that you would like to be able to view your Priority Group number? Why?
- Maybe like on my card, because I know where to find it online.
- The way it is broken down makes sense, in the little bullet points and stuff.
- But I think if something just labeled it and said you are category 1 or you are this, instead of looking at all of them to see which one is applicable to me, I would have something that told me.
- On VA.gov, while I don't know where it says I am. I know where it says all the categories are, I can look at them and
- But as far as knowing 100% for sure, I am not sure

> How would this be a benefit to you?
- Yes definutley.
- I think it is helpful, alot of the information is word of mouth. But it would be helpful to explain it to someone else. I can't expalin to them all the categories and try and figure out what they are and ask personal questions. That is what happens at the VA.
- There are Friday lunch meets and try and give information to older Veterans, just having it labeled and knowing what you are would be helpful for those cases.

> On Site would you like to find
- I am gonna to say where I think it should be, I don't know if it is there... Where you have your informatin, where you have your profile informaiton. Like to change your address. I go in there to update and to make sure my medications are going to the right place.
- It would be nice to see it there. If it is wrong - I hope it is wrong. If it is I could submit something that I think I am something else or at least be sure to know what I am. 
- 


### Things to watch for:
- [Do Veterans call out VA.gov as where they would expect to find this information? Do they list VA Profile?]
- [Do Veterans mention other channels to find and manage this information - Profile, MHV, mobile, etc?]
- [What information do Veterans want to know about their Priority Group?]


---

## Fourth Topic: [Updates post enrollment] - 5 minutes
> Changing directions a bit now, since you enrolled, have you had to make any updates to your information since your initial application? 
- Yeah, I have had private health care, private dental that I have put on there. And just moving (address).
- Funny you ask about the categories, I have updated them, but I don't know, but I have never gotten a response as to what way they are using the information. So at one point I had dental for 2 years and didn't know if I should update it or if it mattered. WHen I did update it, when I was moving to a different dental and not having it. 
- The importance of updating it isn't really communicated. 

> What impact if any those updates have?
- Yeah
- It might be out there, I might not be well informed
- I've gotten something in the mail one time, if anything changes, if you have a primary health care, I don't know if it says primary or private
- But the way it comes in the mail, I get a lot of consent forms for my privacy. It is one of those things, I almost threw away but mabye I shoud read it
- The VA goes throug a lot of mail 


> If yes:
>   - Can you please tell me more about that. What did you have to update and how was that experience for you?

>   - How were you notified or how did you find out you needed to supply that updated information? [Proactive updates]
- Besides getting something in the mail, if I would have tossed it, I never got a phone call.
- The reason I am a little more proactive, when I got out of the military a a friend of my did around the same time, I started school
- He think went on backpacking trip and ended up shattering his ankle, and thinking he had health care, had a $35K health bill, he hadn't enrolled.
- So I have that in the back of my head, that I missed anything and I have a bill I can't pay.

>   - Did you have to make updates for other benefits too or just health care?
- When I was using the GI Bill, one school I transferred to a University, I think I called the benefits line. Not online
- I am going to get married, and I have called about how to make the update when we have a dependent but not yet

## [Financial Disclosure] - 5 minutes
> How would you see a change in income impacting your health care benefits?
- Personally, I don't think it would impact my benefits. But if I did not have a disability rating, it would. I think, I may be wrong. A lot of the things are questionable and up in the air.
- Oh, you know what I do know. It was on the same form. It said um, to report how much you make, or I think it gets pulled from the IRS, puts you in different categories. 

> How would you want to be notified to provide your updated financial information?
- Maybe when I go to an appointment.
- Recently they started doing a questionnaire on what you did at your appointment and then you rate how your appointment went
- It would be nice if my physical is yearly, to have that same informaiton. Make sure my address is correct, my enrollment is up to date, and mabye to get an update on   what category you are in. Instead of all these forms that get mailed to your house, I pay more attention when at the VA.
- Even in the waiting room, sometimes it takes awhile
- I use VA.gov so much, it is a very blue screen. To have a red thing at the top to update, stuff periodically.
- Something that you can't ignore or forget about yeah. 


## [Dependents] - 5 minutes  
> Ideally if you had to make changes to your dependents, can you explain to me how you would go about doing that?
- I would use VA.gov but at the same time my boyfriend is a Veteran, I don't know if it matters if I update him or now because he has his own separate coverage through his work and I think he still uses the VA
- I don't have children dependents, then I would do more work on figuring out how to add them and if they are covered on my primary insurance or at the VA
- Then it gets a little complicated.

### Things to watch for:
- [What is the current process and pain points when making updates to post enrollment?]
- [What type of information is mentioned as what has been or they could see being updated?]



## Fifth Topic: [EZR Tasks - SCENARIO] - 10 minutes
> I would like to ask if you are comfortable sharing your screen and walking through a task on VA.gov?
> Please be sure to close any personal information, like email, Facebook, etc., before you share your screen.

- For this scenario, you received a communication to update your annual income to maintain your copay and travel reimbursement costs as part of your health care benefits. I would like to ask you to show me where and how you would expect to accomplish this online. 

- [Share link to VA.gov in Zoom chat for VA.gov]


[Notification and process]
- How would you like to receive this communication that you need to provide updated financial information?
- What would you want to know in this communication about how and why you need to update your financial information?

[Where to find]
- Now, from the VA.gov home page, can you walk me through where you would expect to go to update your annual income?
- Please remember to talk aloud about your thought process as you go.
- Can you explain to me why you went [here] to update your financial information?
- Talk to me about where you would expect to find the ability to complete this task and why.
-[Possible prompt to remind them that this task is not available today, but want to know where you would expect to find it if it was made available]

[**IF** they state the would go to the VA Profile to update this information]
- Are you comfortable logging in to your own VA profile account? 
- [If no] Or would you rather have me share my screen and a test account with you and we can talk through the rest of this together?

[Possible prompts]
- What would you be looking for when you first login to update this information? Something in the sidebar or a notification?
- Would you think this fits with any of the existing options or would you expect this to be something new?
- What would you expect this new section to be called?



  

[Backup =  which test account to login to if there are concerns or issues with screen sharing after they state they would update this in Profile?]

- Test user 80


### Things to watch for:
- [Where does the Veteran initially think to go to access this information? Do they validate hypothesis and go to their profile or do they look in other places to update this information?]
- [How does the Veteran expect to find this information from the home page or do they mention notifications or other paths as preferred ways to make these updates?]
- [How does the Veteran want to be communicated to and aware of what they need to do in regards to annual income updates?]


----

## Post-Task Interview - 2 minutes

- Is there anything else you would like to add about what we talked about today?
- Any questions for me? 


## Thank-You and Closing - 3 minutes

Well we really appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us today. Your feedback is so helpful to us as we continue to work on the site and make sure it really works for Veterans.

Thanks! Lastly, Perigean will be sending you a thank you note with a little blurb that you can pass along to other Veterans you may know to provide them the chance to participate in future research studies.

Thank you so much again, and enjoy the rest of your day!

##

## Emergency Exit

[In the rare case of an emergency during a session, be prepared with an [emergency exit strategy](https://depo-platform-documentation.scrollhelp.site/research-design/Research-Safety-and-Emergency-Exit-Strategies.2143649793.html#ResearchSafetyandEmergencyExitStrategies-Sampleexitstrategies). Plan to include here at least one option, so its easy to find during a session. Take some time to practice so it feels more comfortable.]
