# Conversation Guide for health care application generative research study around Priority Groups and Financial Disclosure Updates [Health Enrollment Team, 10-10EZ, July 2023]

## P4

July 28, 23 at 1:30pm ET / 10:30 PT
----

  
## Warm-up Questions  - 3 minutes

[How long have you been enrolled in and using health care benefits from the VA?]

> Since 2017.

[How often do you visit VA.gov online and do you sign in every time you visit?]
  
> This week, been on the website every day. Checking payment histories every day. Signs in every time. Looking to see when to get paid education benefits. Looking for payment history on that.

## First Topic: [Application Process] - 10 minutes

[Can you explain to me in your own words the process when you applied for health care benefits?]

> It was really easy to apply. I didn't know much about what benefits were available. Only started using it two years ago. Didn't know could schedule visits online. Thought it was complicated because it was the military. Called them and was told could schedule it online. Now using it for all healthcare related things.

[If they don't specify, Did you apply online, in-person or via paper application by yourself?]

> Applied online.

[What resources did you use to understand what health care benefits you might qualify for during this process?]

- TBH, the application process was a one pager, maybe 10 questions.
  > Didn't know what resources, after hitting submit, health benefit wise, were avaialble to me.

[How would you describe the process that happened after you completed your application, such as things you had to do, additional information you had to provide, communications from the VA, your first appointment, etc.?]

> I don't remember receiving any information. Not much interaction with health care.
> I think I did get something in the mail, not a phone call.

[Now that you have been using your benefits, I would like you to think back and recall if there is anything that would have been helpful for you to know during your application process that you have learned after you enrolled?]

> On confirmation page, after you submit, would have good to see a pamphlet of the information of the benefits. I am there and focused on the information, walked away and out of sight and out of mind.
- Benefits available

[How have you - if at all - been notified since you enrolled that you had to provide updated information?]

> No, aside from secondary insurance.
- Went into an appointment and was asked about that at the VA.

### Things to watch for:
- [What terminology does the Veteran use as they talk about their experience?]
      - Benefits
      - Application
      - Health care
- [How does the Veteran portray the overall process - easy, difficult, uneventful?]
      - Easy to apply but didn't understand benefits she had, intimidating to apply beforehand 
- [How does the Veteran describe the process of figuring out what they are eligible for - are they frustrated or do they find it easy?]
      - Didn't know, did not use benefits for a while 
- [What does the Veteran call out about the process after the initial application and around managing their benefits?]
      - Would like more information on the confirmation page about benefits
- [What pain points or areas of confusion are revealed?]
      - Not knowing what benefits were available


## Second Topic: [Priority Group - Awareness] - 5 minutes
[Can you tell me more about what Priority Group you are in for your health care benefits now?]

> I can't without logging in.

[If NOT aware of Priority Groups, ask question and skip to fourth topic]
[What do you think Priority Groups are? There is no right or wrong answer here, just explain your understanding of what you think it could be and how that is important to health care benefits.]

> I don't know what they are. Heard from someone that certain priority groups allow you to schedule your appointments online. Some won't allow you. Not sure it's correct, but that's what I heard.

> **The thing about the VA.gov website there is just so much information. Sites are embedded in other sites. It can be a lot.**

- Expects to see it under My Health. Logged in on phone. Says "Premium". Opens this, and looks at Account Types.

[opens on App]
> button near my name it says Premium and I am guessing that is my Priority Group.
> Opens and tells me the difference between the two

### Things to watch for:
- [Do Veterans' confidently know their Priority Group and what that means to them and their benefits?]
      - No, expects to find it online 
- [What is the current process and experience around Priority Groups?]
      - word of mouth information
- [What are the knowledge gaps around Priority Groups and health care costs?]
- [What things would Veterans like to see or like to change in regards to Priority Groups?]
      - 
---

## Third Topic: [Priority Group - Future State] - 5 minutes
- Where are some places that you would like to be able to view your Priority Group number? Why?
- How would this be helpful to you?
- What type of information is important to you to have access to about your Priority Group and your health care benefits?
- Is there anything you find confusing about how your Priority Group impacts you today that you wish the VA would provide more clarity on?


### Things to watch for:
- [Do Veterans call out VA.gov as where they would expect to find this information? Do they list VA Profile?]
- [Do Veterans mention other channels to find and manage this information - Profile, MHV, mobile, etc?]
- [What information do Veterans want to know about their Priority Group?]


---

## Fourth Topic: [Updates post enrollment] - 5 minutes
- Changing directions a bit now, since you enrolled, have you had to make any updates to your information since your initial application?

Changed address online.

- If yes:
   - Can you please tell me more about that. What did you have to update and how was that experience for you?
   - How were you notified or how did you find out you needed to supply that updated information?
   - Is there anything about that experience that you wish you could change?

    No.

   - Did you have to make updates for other benefits too or just health care?


## [Financial Disclosure] - 5 minutes
[How would you see a change in income impacting your health care benefits?]

I don't know.

[How would you want to be notified to provide your updated financial information?]

> Probably via a letter.

- Why? Sometimes, emails get buried. Last priority. I want my healthcare coverage to be first priority.

## [Dependents] - 5 minutes
[Have you ever had a need to make changes to your dependents for VA benefits? If so, can you tell me more about that experience.]

> No.


### Things to watch for:
- [What is the current process and pain points when making updates to post enrollment?]
- [What type of information is mentioned as what has been or they could see being updated?]



## Fifth Topic: [EZR Tasks - SCENARIO] - 10 minutes

- I would like to ask if you are comfortable sharing your screen and walking through a task on VA.gov?
- Please be sure to close any personal information, like email, Facebook, etc., before you share your screen.

- For this scenario, you received a communication to update your annual income for your health benefits to maintain your copay and travel reimbursement costs. 

[Notification and process]
[How would you like to receive this communication that you need to provide updated financial information?]

> I think I would want it by letter.

[What would you want to know in this communication about how and why you need to update your financial information?]

They why and how it impacts me and my benefits. How it impacts coverage, if there was a predetermined range. Your copay could look like this, and if any coverage could change.

- I would like to ask you to show me where and how you would expect to accomplish this online. 

- [Share link to https://VA.gov in Zoom chat]

- Tends to log in on my phone.

[Where to find]
- Now as you open the link in the chat, from the VA.gov home page, can you walk me through where you would expect to go to update your annual income?
- Please remember to talk aloud about your thought process as you go.

Would go to my name. Open that dropdown. Wants to see her personal information. Would expect to see her personal information. Would want to see Finanacial Information or Income Information. Would look for Income.

[**IF** they state the would go to the VA Profile to update this information]
- Are you comfortable logging in to your own VA profile account? 
- [If no] Or would you rather have me share my screen and a test account with you and we can talk through the rest of this together?
   - [Backup =  which test account FOR MODERATOR to login to if there are concerns or issues with screen sharing after they state they would update this in Profile, Moderator would need to share their screen at this point]
      - Test user 82



[Possible prompts]
- Can you explain to me why you went [here] to update your financial information?
- Talk to me about where you would expect to find the ability to complete this task and why.
- [Possible prompt to remind them that this task is not available today if they get hung up looking for it, but want to know where you would expect to find it if it was made available]
- What would you be looking for when you first login to update this information? Something in the sidebar or a notification?
- Would you think this fits with any of the existing options or would you expect this to be something new?
- What would you expect this new section to be called?



  


### Things to watch for:
- [Where does the Veteran initially think to go to access this information? Do they validate hypothesis and go to their profile or do they look in other places to update this information?]
- [How does the Veteran expect to find this information from the home page or do they mention notifications or other paths as preferred ways to make these updates?]
- [How does the Veteran want to be communicated to and aware of what they need to do in regards to annual income updates?]


----

## Post-Task Interview - 2 minutes

[Is there anything else you would like to add about what we talked about today?]
[Any questions for me? ]



