# 526 Self-Service Claims for Increase 01-18-2017, 2:00pm, Mark (P2)

[Session report](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/blob/master/products/disability/526ez/research/jan-2018/notes/p2-session-report.md)

## Session transcription

**Moderator (M): *Introduction to session (pre-recording)***

**M: First off, tell me a bit about, I just want to spend a few minutes talking about your experience with filing a disability claim with the VA before. Tell me, How long after your separation from service did you file a claim?**

Army, infantryman in the Army from 2000 - 2004 to the beginning of 2010. That's when I separated. In Fayetteville Arkensas right now. It's... they call it natural state and it's really true. I've not been one to stop and look at birds, but there are so many here. And I can grow anything in my garden. It's not like the south people think of, there are so many transplants here it doesn't even feel like the South.

M: Tell me about that, how long after your separation

I'm actually filing my first claim now. It was at the request of my therapist. I've been seeing a therapist for PTSD and it's been kind of a wild ride. The denial of me every having a problem, and went to VA for a back problem, them requesting I see a therapist, and getting help. Then submitting a claim so they don’t end up spending thousands of dollars.

I have 2 brothers who've filed claims in the past and they're helping me with the process.

M: Where are you in the process of the claim?

Filling out the form and getting statements from family members and from buddies of mine who are at war so I can submit that. So I went and sat down and talked with a... don't know what his title is. Here locally, I have a VA hospital 15 min down the road. Kind of weird out in the middle of nowhere, but whatever it's nice haha. So they have people there that I sat down with and they kind of showed me what I need to do in order to do that.

M: How long have you been working on the claim at this point?

Since end of November.

M: Did you consider filing online?

No, haha. The reason is because it's um... it's kind of an overwhelming process, I have buddies who don't even go to the VA because they've heard it's overwhelming, it's scary.

M: Online process is overwhelming?

Yeah

M: Shift gears and share my screen. 

Probably biggest reason I didn't go online is bc it's kind of known in Veteran community that having someone holding your hand helps a lot. I know ppl who didn't have help and then they just have - (audio cut out). They felt like you don't know what's ahead of you or what they're looking for, and they end up  having to appeal anyway. So it's kind of natural, when I started thinking about filing for disab, I was worried bc I didn't think there was anyone here who could help me, so it wasn't until I found out there was someone here that I started. Bc I didn't want to have to end up essentially going though the process twice.

M: So, now we've got the app up, some scenarios. So, imagine your claim has gone through and you're receiving compensation but after that, maybe a few months after, you're feeling as though your condition has gotten more severe and it's time to update your rating at the VA to account for that. Click around and navigate as you would normally. Think aloud as much as you can.

(scrolled up and down a bunch) So, first I'd probably want to sign in. Am I thinking that I'm signed in already. 

M: Tell me more about why you'd want to sign in

If I'm already getting compensation then there's already documentation under my name, so I'd be adding to that pile.

M: 

It says "Apply for a disability claim" but I need a button for "Upgrade your disability claim". If I already have a disability claim, do I apply again? seems redundant. But then it also seems kinda normal for the government too haha. (kept scrolling around a lot). Right here it says, never filed one, new or worsening. I wouldn't have thought I'd have to apply for disability compensation if I already have one. Maybe "Apply or Update" bc right here it says have a new or worsening... see this makes sense. For me, I'd click the first one since it's file a new one. The last one, normally you appeal anyway, is what I've heard the standard is from my brothers and some buddies. I've heard you appeal again no matter what, so that's when I'd use the appeal.

Ah see here's the sign in.

M: 

(Clicked MyHealtheVet) I don't know how all the sites are connected, but DSLogon isn't that the CAT card? Oh actually I think it's CAT card or password on eBenefits. 

Um. They've changed that a couple times since I've been out and it's kinda confusing logging in. But I know what my MHV thing is, I've used that before. So I'd try to log in through that. When you go to Facebook it lets you choose a few ways to log in and they're all kind of the same, that's what I assume this one is.

M: Why did you choose MHV?

Bc I know my username and password haha.

M: What if you didn't have an account?

I've never heard of ID.me, but if I didn't have an account ... every time I try DS Logon I have to change my pw every time, or like something's wrong w/my pw. Honestly right before I got on here I was going to access eBenefits and that uses DS Login and I've got the loading screen right here waiting for me to change my password haha. So I try to stay away from DS Login as much as possible. But I don't know what ID.me is.

M: Let me take you back to where you were, can you see this?

Normal, for any VA stuff making sure you're right. DOB and Social. Yeah I'd always assume to see something like that.

M: Why do you think you're seeing these questions?

I do like the suicide one, it's such a big deal. I don't know any Vet that hasn't been affected by it, in terms of they've thought it themselves or know someone who's killed themselves. I have quite a few buddies who've killed themsleves since getting out. It's sad bc every time we try to make contact w/everyone to see how folks are doing since getting out, but it's kind of a short term thing... 

M: What do you think would happen if you chose one of those options?

I'd hope that I'd be contacted by someone. Because honestly if I click on it and it just gives me resources... the homeless veterans I know they don't want resources, they want someone to reach out to them. It's not like let me read about resources and then I might not kill myself, they need someone to talk to them. That's what I would hope would happen. Plus you said that... if my PTSD is getting worse, I'm probaly having thoughts of suicide, so if I'm here...

M: If none of the above applied to you what would happen next?

I'd click continue. This is like a lot of the things I've been seeing at VA lately that I really like. Login, pause is this you? OK Pause are you having thoughts of suicide? Even when he calls that happens.

M: 

This is typical. Always asking what your address is bc VA system still heavily relies on mail, trying to keep track of people. It's normal, juts contact info. Doesn't surprise me in any way.

M: IF you were moving soon, what would you do.

Honestly, I would wait until I move to update and then I'd forget and it would take a while to update. It's happened before.

M: What happened before?

So I moved from uh since I've been out I've been a number of different places. Which is another eason I haven't done a claim. Some ppl say it's taken 2-5 years, apparently it's a lot less now to get  benefits. A thing with VA is they dont' talk to other regions. I have a buddy in IT at this VA and he says they're trying to integrate the regions... So since I've been out I've never started a claim  bc I knew I wasn't goingto be there long enough to fulfill the claim, and when I move I'd have to start all over again anyway.

M: That sounds really annoying.

Yeah it's been almost 8 years since I got out and i haven't. that's one of the big reasons. When my brothers were filing they wanted me too also so we could all do it at same time, but I knew I was moving. One of my brother actually was a year and half in and he had to restart when he moved.

M: What do you think the forwarding address checkbox is about?

On first glance I think of it as not my.. like the primary address.. when you ship something you have billing and shipping, but now that you've talked me thorugh it, that's probably exactly the scenario. But if I clicked on it, would it say I'll be here at this time? Would it change my address or my mailing for a little bit? I'm not sure what it would do.

M: What would you expect it would do permanently or temporariy

I'd want it to update after a certain date, but I could see how that could get a little cluttered. In the past if I know I'm not going to actually have a physical mailing address for a while, I've used my parents address. Mom's on West Dad's on East, so whichever side I'm on, and they'd just ship me the mail that I got.

M: Ok let's move on here.

Ok. 

M: ANy toughts here?

Ony that I've had two buddies who've gotten out and gone back in again, and you normally don't have a lot of association w/the vA again so making sure you haven't gone back in.

M: Ok let's move on. Why do you think you're beng asked for this?

To make sure VA has proper checking account number that you need the funds to go into.

M: Any concerns about entering bank info?

No, I'm not a Vietnam veteran though haha. All my info's aready up there anyway so I'm not worried about that.

M: Ok go ahead. OK so in this scenario, you have been rated for PTSD and IDS and both have gotten worse.

I like how it says Buddy Statements because that's what I call it too. Same terminology. Pretty straightforward, bc not all the time are you getting treated for things at VA facilities and you have to give them access to the records or print copies so they have them. They just need it all. Especially with there being options now that you can get access to medical care from disabilties from other hospitals and whatnot, I've just heard of it but I haven't done it since I have a VA hospital here, but I assume the hospitals don't just share info willy nilly with the VA.

M: Do you think you have all the info you need at htis point?

If I've already filed a claim and I'm just updating it now, I'd probably have a general idea of what I need to do. There's aways something you're missing, but I'm assuming later on it'll share w/me at some point somebody will say we need this one as well and fine I'll go get that too.

M: If you were doing this on your own, how would you apply on your own?

I'd go back to the guy helping me in the first place, bc I honestly wouldn't know that this is out there.

M: If somebody told you about this site and you were tyring to update your claim through here, how would you go about applying on this site. I'm wondering if you'd want to do it all at once, or go and come back.

Come and go, especially if it tells me I need to get something that I don't have yet. I'd have to pause the step process.

M: What do you expect to happen if you close out right now?

I'd honestly assume I'd have to go through all the steps again. Unless something told me that I could come back. But the steps haven't been hard so far, so it wouldn't matter to me at this point

M: What would you expect to happen if you clicked Brockton

That I'd change it to whatever place I'm using right now. Just habit haha.

M: How would you be feeling?

At this stage it'd make me feel better bc if I am getting treated at a medical center, they'd go to my therapist at the VA and ask for any more info she's done at her therapy sessions. And I'd assume if I click my private doctor I'd have to sign an affidavit or something to get records to the VA.

M: So let's move on

There we go. We'll go over and get your records. Well probably won't "go over" but yeah haha. It's nice. And then upload later in the process that would be buddy statements and private doctor stuff so...

M: So let's suppose for this one you've been seen by a private doctor

Oh is this saying they'll get it for me?! I'd probably honestly, if I was going to see a private doctor i'd already have them on hand and then when I get here I'd think, oh that's nice for next time!

M: What are your thoughts about this?

This is what I was thinking right before I clicked, I'm going to have to sign something to authorize due to HIPAA and the dates are so that they're grabbing not all the information but just what's needed between those 2 time periods. And yeah the address an phone number of the place.

M: Do you hav all the info you'd need for this?

Uh I could probably look it up online, do a google search of whatever doctor I'm using, click the contact us button.

M: Why do you think you're seeing this?

Just to make sure that's all the documents. Bc even though I've bene seen at VA for PTSD and went to private practice for back issues I could still have buddy statements or spousal statement that my PTSD has gotten worse that I haven't given access to yet, so I could upload that stuff.

M: Would you upload those if you were doing it on your own? Why?

Yeah. For one so there's a digital copy. And more is always better in this kind of case with the government. Even if it doesn't help, it doesn't harm.

Yeah I like when you upload files that it shows that it's uploaded. Yeah.

M: What are you seeing here?

I've reviewed all the info I've put in, not sure what I'll see if I click the dropdown.

And now I wait 7 years for them to review it haha. Is there a way we can see that it's been received? I guess it's the electronic age, but I remember submitting stuff in the Army and being like well did they get it? is it being reviewed? or do i just sit on my hand for 60 days and if they don't com eback in 60 days... and that's the thing am I going to come back in 60 days and they say oh we need this again and then I have to wait another 60 days.

M: What kinds of notifications would you want to get?

The one I like the most is one that says someone is actively reviewing it. These sit in an incoming box ad then whoever's working on it, when they grab it, as long as I know someone has their hands on it, then I can wait for 60 days. But I don't want it to just sit in an inbox and it gets skipped or something. 

M: If you didnt' hear anything for 60 days or so, what would you do?

I'd probably call the help line and I wouldn't be mad at hte person on the other end of the line but I'd be mad at the process. I thought I did everything right, waht did I do wrong. What else do I need.

M: What are your thoughts on the process we just went through?

I uh... I like it.

M: What od you like about it?

It's simple. After hearing from everbody exactly what I need, and if I could just upload it as I get it - so say in my case I haven't filed, but if I could upload a document at a time until I get all the docs I need and then file from there? Or in this case I'm updating it but dont' have all the docs yet, but I could continue on and then do it myself from home. Right now I'm working with somebody but am probably not goig to set up another meeting w/him yet bc I don't have the bulk of the stuff I need yet.

M: If this were live would you go to your local VA center or apply on a site like this

I'd apply online. I know my brothers would, and I know a lot of guys who haven't applied yet but honestly need to. Especially for ppl suffering from PTSD, a big thing is going out and talking to ppl about the issues you're having and why and more than the ppl that actually need to read your file read your file, and it just seems more... i want to say introverted... um. But you'd rather not just share it with the world. And talking about it's always hard, but if I could just submit it online I wouldn't have to talk to anybody about it. I could just submit it and they review it.

M: You had said "that guy" earlier, who is that?

I don't rememebr his name, but I know how to get to him or make an appointment.

M: What org does he work with.

That's a good question, I'm going to google maps the building real quick and that'll tell me what the name is. Washington County Veterans Services. So I don't even know what they do, I know they help ppl with their claims.

M: A couple more questions, we're about out of time. So the effective date. What do you think that means.

So the effective date is, if I... it's the day that I'm applying for additional benefits, so if they make a decision they'll back pay me to that date.

Estimated time? I know a couple of guys that I'd refer this to. 

---

He'd be interested in helping us prior to launch w/UAT! Yay!

---

Gift: Paypal (the wife would be happier)
Share w/friends: yeah
