## Questions answered via email, 3.25.19

Answered by Adam Kinder, Chief of Fraud Office in Salt Lake City

**1. What should a veteran do if they suspect their direct deposit info has been hacked? Who should they report it to? How does this process work now on eBenefits?**

Veterans who suspect they have been the victim of fraud should call VA at 1-800-827-1000 as quickly as possible.   

**2. What should we do on the VA.gov end if someone reports fraud? Lock their direct deposit info? For how long? How do we determine that things have been resolved again and their account is no longer compromised?**
 
We currently have this functionality with the 02X CADD and we review on a case by case basis. Once fraud is confirmed-the protection is placed and we only remove at the request of the Veteran and careful review the it is indeed the Veteran.  We also have something similar for eBenefits; here’s an example of what that looks like:
 
> Veteran's Social Security Number- XXXX
> DS logon- Veteran states he does not remember his log in information
> Email address listed with eBenefits account (if the requestor would like a confirmation email)- XXXXXXX@gmail.com
 
> The statement: I completed advanced ID Protocol and read the following statement to the caller: Your eBenefits account has been locked for your protection. By providing the following additional information you are consenting to have the account unlocked. Unlocking the account may result in further unauthorized changes to your information

## 3.26.19 call

With Adam Kindler and other members of his team

**1. Can you walk me through exactly what happens when a veteran suspects fraud?**

- The veteran would call in to the 1-800 number and report that their account was hacked.
- The fraud team figures out if the person actually was hacked and how to repay them.
- This team wants to be able to run analytics and want to be able to not allow direct deposit changes to occur based on predictive models. They currenty run things through a model with multiple data points they use from multiple systems. With VA.gov, they are hoping they may have more data points re: the fraud itself. Ex. IP address, timestamp of the change, browser info, etc. to help them identify whether something was fraud.

**2. I called the 1-800 number and it's a long phone tree. What should veterans do to get connected to the fraud department quickly?**

- This number is for general contact center. They take some notes and refer that to Adam's team if they believe that there has been fraud.
- Samara to look into contact center tree and to figure out how to direct people to the right place more quickly.

**3. You mentioned in your email that "Once fraud is confirmed-the protection is placed and we only remove at the request of the Veteran and careful review the it is indeed the Veteran." What kind of protection? Do you lock the whole account? Just direct deposit functionality? Can a veteran log into their account in this time?**

- This means the user can not log in to their account until the lock flag lifts.
- The way things work now, their DS Logon is only locked for eBenefits, not other sites.

**Background**

- Fraudster has someone's information. May get it from eBeneits, contact center, bank, etc. Right now, someone has to answer 3 questions in two minutes to get in, but some people can still get in past this. 2FA will help with this.
- Then they change the veteran's password and direct deposit info and can "site jump" from there.
- Fraudsters will tend to do this immediately before the pay date so they get this money before a veteran can act.
- Veterans get an email that say your information has been changed.
- Veteran acts when they realize they haven't been paid.
- Veterans call contact center and that information is forwarded over to the fraud team for further action.
- Pay file: This is generated by VBA and sent to treasury around the 20th of the month. All awards going to be paid for the 1st of the month are sent to treasury on this date as part of a legacy process. Fraudsters know that if they make changes right before the 20th, VBA won't have time to catch this before sending over to treasury.
- When this is caught after the fact, the team then has to figure out how to pay back veterans.
- Right now, they are receiving about 1,000 cases per month, but only about 20% of that is actually fraud.

**Locking the account**

- Adam's team gets report and triages cases. As they are reviewing it to determine whether this is fraud or not, they take a couple actions:
  - Lock down eBenefits. This means the **whole** account for that specific veteran is locked down.
  - They get a message that it has been locked for security reasons and to call a number or something if they have questions/
  - They do this via DMDC who gives them access to DS Logon to lock down specific accounts.

**4. How can/should we work with your office in the case of fraud? Will we be informed that a user has reported fraud? Will we be informed when an account is locked/unlocked?**

**5. What does it mean to "lock" an account? Is there anything we have to get set up from a technical perspective to allow your team to lock/unlock VA.gov accounts?**

**Things to discuss on future calls**
- How would we lock accounts for MHV or ID.me?
  - This currently works by locking DS LOGON via DMDC. To confirm: Does this affect associated ID.me accounts?
  - Will likely need to set up a relationship between this team and ID.me.
- Can or should we just lock the direct deposit feature instead of the whole account?
  - They mentioned something about locking the direct deposit capability instead of the logon capability but it sounds like that has mixed outcomes.
- How would our teams, if at all, work together if an account was locked?
- They want to talk about data points that they can extract to figure out if fraud is happening (predictive capabilities).

## 4.4.19 Call

- Started with recap from last time

**Locking accounts**

- Current process could use some refinement. 
- DMDC has an interface where the fraud team can go to lock down an account. Pretty simple interface with lock/unlock button.
- Interface has dates of activity. 
- Would be really helpful to be able to have IP addresses going forward.
- System blocks any direct deposit activity from happening.
- Create connection between fraud team and MHV and fraud team and ID.me?
  - Maybe. Chris says they may just be able to lock down ID.me because everyone will be identity verified. 
  - **Samara will ask David**.
- When it comes to locking accounts, this team should be pretty self sufficient without needing to involve us.

**Data points**

- Adam shared a spreadsheet with some data points. 102 data points. Anything they can see on backend they can feed into database to see if something is fraud or not.
- IP addresses would be the biggest thing they would want. Used to have it but now there is some sort of privacy issue around DoD not disclosing that they were tracking IP addresses. DoD went back and published whatever they needed to disclose they were tracking IP Addresses, but we still haven't been able to get that data back at the VA. VA may not have a formal agreement to get that from DoD.
- Their data is currently being pulled from CorpDB.

## Follow-up email 12.10.19

- I emailed Adam to confirm what happens if a veteran calls to get their account **unlocked**. As expected, we are correctly pointing people to the contact center who will point people to the fraud team. The fraud team will handle and follow up with veterans on a case-by-case basis:

> Correct. Typically Veteran’s aren’t saying they want their account unlocked. They are saying I want to update my direct deposit and the agents can’t because the block is in play.  So, we look on a case by case basis and respond to the sender on what the next steps should by. Because of an increase in Contact Center fraud there’s a lot of time where we take no action.
