# April 3, 2024: Form field removal pre-CCB
*Ask VA VA.gov Team*

## Attendees

- Ask VA VA.gov: Becky Phung, Holly Hansen
- CRM: Chris Clemens, Wandy Espana, Maria King, Jaime Rocha, Tamara Kanterman
- CWV and CMW: Missina Schallus, Elizabeth Harrington, Carmen Drummon, Carl McPherson, D'Andrea Jacobs, Ronald Sagudan, Dwayne Campbell, Gregoria Kishketon, Don Warren, Debra Walker, Ana Claudio, Michelle Terry, Shannon Middleton,

## Summary

- We recommended removing gender and reason you're contacting us.
- They are against removing gender and pronouns.
> "And while there are other offices like ours, who are doing everything to gather this data, there's other offices that are trying to take the data away and from the center's point, we've been told if this is gonna go on the chopping block to bring it up to our leadership."

> "But the other part is that by excluding this by removing this data, you are racing the identity of many of our Veterans and it will."

> "And it's not just VA cares... we have a social responsibility to all of our Veterans and at the end of the day, that is the bottom line for this."

> "It creates that erasure and makes makes them feel small. And this is just from what we've experienced from the Veterans that we encounter."

## Actions

- [ ] Becky will reach out to the data architect team from OIT about demographics collection.

## Notes

- Split inquiry (Tamara)
  - Missina - I personally like to see the amount of days open as a whole, but this is less of an issue for us because we have always responded in 3 days so we can see the whole story  - Carmen agrees
  - Agreeance: Keep it as is
- Review of portal fields (Becky)
  - Carmen - I am concerned about Gender and Pronoun, we are getting frustrated with us - provide gender/pronouns together - and tell them Why - so we can point them to the relevant resources. By removing this data - you are erasing the identity of some of our Veterans -which we are fighting so hard to build trust in.  Visibility and Trust to those that feel invisible. How and Who was selected for these research interviews? 
caregiver/ veteran/ survivor as an alternative to they them
  - Missina - Veterans are frustrated that the VA is not representing them we need data - we will elevate this to leadership if this is not included 
  - Sharon- I am the Change Control Board representative - I agree (with Carmen / Missina -  this is an enterprise level decision, not the agent. We see the ramifications of if this is removed - can we make it optional 
