
# Study: Spanish Translated Content Discovery Research - Desktop, 05/13/2019, P1

Craig

- Veteran

- 45-54

- Male

- Caucasian/White

- Army

- FL

- Spouse Spanish speaking

# Conversation Guide Spanish Translated Content Discovery Research

## Moderator logistics

*Log out of personal Google account. Sign into Perigean's meeting link using their Google account: 

*Here is the link:  [SEE ZOOM LINK IN INVITATION]

*Use [#feedback-backchannel](https://dsva.slack.com/messages/C40B45NJK/details/) in Slack for real-time feedback from observers.*

*Before the session, send out the [observer instructions](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/blob/master/platform/research/during-research/howto-observer-instructions.md) to your observers (Slackbot will do this for you if you type "observer instructions" into #feedback-backchannel).*

*In the Attendees section, make sure everyone except the participant is on mute*.

*In the Audio section, click the drop-down arrow and make sure "Play Entry/Exit Chimes" is unchecked*.

*Check your screensharing setup:* Be sure to close extraneous windows as needed.

**Set-up screen sharing (verify participant is using desktop version): 
Please click Share in your Zoom, to make sure you're able to do that with us today. 

If user is not able to screen share, verify that they are using the desktop application, not the browser. User may need to exit and re-join. Tell them to run and download the application when prompted, instead of clicking on the 'browser' option. 

*When the participant is ready, begin the session with the following intro:*


## Intro (5 minutes)

Thanks for joining us today! My name is  [CAROLA] and I also have some colleagues on the line observing and taking notes. Today we're going to talk about the benefit information that's offered in Spanish on the VA.gov website. 

Before we start, I want to mention a few things:

- **This entire session should take about 45 minutes** I want to be sure not to keep you much longer, so I may occasionally prompt you with the next question or topic.
- **In this session, we want to hear your honest opinions.** So please talk out loud as you have thoughts about each task. We are not testing your ability. We just want to improve the website to better meet Veteran's needs. I will not be offended by any opinions you express, and I welcome your feedback.
- **If for any reason and at any time you want to stop the session, please let me know.** You will not be penalized in any way if we need to stop.
- **Are you comfortable if I record my screen and audio as we talk today?** We use the recordings to confirm that we have captured your opinions accurately.

Nextt, I'm going to send you a link to the VA webiste in the chat window. https://www.va.gov
Please go there now, and we'll start recording our session.
 

*Start recording.*

## Warm-Up Questions (10 minutes)

- Would you consider yourself a Veteran, a family member of a Veteran, or a caregiver for a Veteran
> Veteran, but wife is Mexican and Spanish speaking

- How would you describe your comfort level in English, for speaking and for reading? 
> I'm comfortable in Spanish conversationally but not really reading. Wife is proficient in English and is very comfortable speaking English with family, but her confidence speaking English with strangers isn't as comfortable.

  - Are there certain kinds of information you prefer to get in Spanish vs. English? 
> His wife will look up store websites and if there's a Spanish option, will use it. 

  - Tell me about a situation where you wished there was a Spanish language version. 

- What kinds of information do you typically look online for in Spanish vs. English? 

  - Tell me more about that.
  - Are certain formats more helpful (for example, website vs. downloadable PDFs vs. in-person help at a regional office)?

- How do you usually get information about VA benefits and services?
> On VA website but in English, and will share info with wife but verbally
> Like survivor benefit info in Spanish would be useuful in case anything ever happened to him, became incapicated or died. 
> I served with many Latino veterans but they were all fluent in English. But it would be for their family members maybe it could be helpful. 
  - For yourself or for someone else?

- Have you ever visited a VA website?
> Mostly eBenefits but it seems like it's slowly merging with va.gov. 
  - What were you trying to do?
  > Mostly look up pay history, GI Bill, Voc Rehab, medical records, disability claims, check on the status. 
  
  - Tell me about that experience.
  - What would you expect to find on VA.gov? 
    - In Spanish?
    - What type of benefit information would be most helpful to have in Spanish?

  



## First Task:  Find VA home loan benefits information  (10 minutes)


For the next activity, I am going to ask you to share your screen. Imagine you're interested in learning about home loan benefits offered by  VA and about how to apply.  

Can you see the chat window or icon? I am sending you a link, please click on it. 

*Send link: https://projects.invisionapp.com/share/JNRWYURRY5Q#/screens

Tell me how you would get started from here. 
> I expected the link to be in the top right hand corner. Took a second but found it.

(If they did not notice the Spanish link:) Please click on the link to see this page in Spanish. 

Tell me what you think here. 


What would you expect when you click on one of these links? 

(Have them click around and observe if they notice Spanish links or get confused by being sent to English pages from Spanish content.
> The menu links [he means the left nav] are in English. For me, it's fine but someone with limited English who needed this page in Spanish would need the menu in Spanish too. 

[He clicks on nav link.]

**(If they did not go to the How to Apply page:) Please go to the How to Apply (home loans) page.**
https://projects.invisionapp.com/share/JNRWYURRY5Q#/screens/362227907

(If they did not notice the Spanish link:) Please click on the link to see this page in Spanish. 


Tell me what you think here. 
> So it goes to English. Couple steps because link goes to English first. 


**(If they did not go to the Survivors Program page:) Please go to the page about home loan programs for surviving spouses.** 
https://projects.invisionapp.com/share/JNRWYURRY5Q#/screens/362227909


Tell me what you think here. 
> I can go back n forth with my wife, flip back n forth from Spanish to English, to help his wife but verify with English for himself. 
> For example with paper applications, like for food stamps, I put it side by side, the English and Spanish version. Usually can't do that with websites. 
> Thinking more from the point of view of a mother or spouse, who would find Spanish helpful, not so much Veterans.


## Second Task:  Find VA pension benefits information  (10 minutes)

For the next activity, imagine you're interested in learning about pension benefits for Veterans or for a Veteran's spouse or child.

Can you see the chat window or icon? I am sending you a link, please click on it. 

*Send link: https://projects.invisionapp.com/share/DCRWYHDNVPM#/screens 


Tell me how you would get started from here. 

> I expect an apply button, info on how to look up my pension payments, direct deposit info like if I change banks. 

**(If they did not notice the Spanish link:) Please click on the link to see this page in Spanish.**

Tell me what you think here. 



What would you expect when you click on one of these links? 




**(If they did not go to the How to Apply page:) Please go to the How to Apply (pension) page.** 
https://projects.invisionapp.com/share/DCRWYHDNVPM#/screens/362213464


(If they did not notice the Spanish link:) Please click on the link to see this page in Spanish. 


Tell me what you think here. 




**(If they did not go to the survivors pension page:) Please go to the page about pension benefits for surviving spouses and children.** 
https://projects.invisionapp.com/share/DCRWYHDNVPM#/screens/362213466

Tell me what you think here. 





## Follow-up Questions (5 minutes)

- What did you notice in general about the pages that you saw today? 
- Did you find anything particularly helpful or unhelpful? 
> If I needed a page in Spanish, I would need the menu in Spanish too. 
> More for family and survivors.
> A PDF printable checklist - for all applications -- would help gather all the right docs before submitting. In English and Spanish for survivors. 
- Do you have any other thoughts you would like to share? 
- Or questions?

## Thank-You and Closing  (5 minutes)

We really appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us today. Your feedback is so helpful to us as we continue to work on the site and make sure it really works for all Veterans.

As a thank you for your participation, we'd like to offer you a $50 thank-you gift. 

Is it ok for our contractor Perigean to send that gift to the same email we used to communicate with you about scheduling this session? 

- **[If no:] **Ok, we'll follow up with an email after this session to get the right email from you in writing.



Lastly, would you like to share this feedback opportunity with other Veterans or Veteran groups you're a part of? If so, I can send you an email with a little blurb so you can easily connect folks to our team.

Thank you so much again, and enjoy the rest of your day. 

