
# Study: Spanish Translated Content Discovery Research - Desktop, 05/13/2019, P2

Eduardo

- Veteran

- Age not provided

- Male

- Hispanic/Latino/Spanish origin/Black/African American/White or Caucasion

- Marine Corps

- MD

- 

# Conversation Guide Spanish Translated Content Discovery Research

## Moderator logistics

*Log out of personal Google account. Sign into Perigean's meeting link using their Google account: 

*Here is the link:  [SEE ZOOM LINK IN INVITATION]

*Use [#feedback-backchannel](https://dsva.slack.com/messages/C40B45NJK/details/) in Slack for real-time feedback from observers.*

*Before the session, send out the [observer instructions](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/blob/master/platform/research/during-research/howto-observer-instructions.md) to your observers (Slackbot will do this for you if you type "observer instructions" into #feedback-backchannel).*

*In the Attendees section, make sure everyone except the participant is on mute*.

*In the Audio section, click the drop-down arrow and make sure "Play Entry/Exit Chimes" is unchecked*.

*Check your screensharing setup:* Be sure to close extraneous windows as needed.

**Set-up screen sharing (verify participant is using desktop version): 
Please click Share in your Zoom, to make sure you're able to do that with us today. 

If user is not able to screen share, verify that they are using the desktop application, not the browser. User may need to exit and re-join. Tell them to run and download the application when prompted, instead of clicking on the 'browser' option. 

*When the participant is ready, begin the session with the following intro:*


## Intro (5 minutes)

Thanks for joining us today! My name is  [CAROLA] and I also have some colleagues on the line observing and taking notes. Today we're going to talk about the benefit information that's offered in Spanish on the VA.gov website. 

Before we start, I want to mention a few things:

- **This entire session should take about 45 minutes** I want to be sure not to keep you much longer, so I may occasionally prompt you with the next question or topic.
- **In this session, we want to hear your honest opinions.** So please talk out loud as you have thoughts about each task. We are not testing your ability. We just want to improve the website to better meet Veteran's needs. I will not be offended by any opinions you express, and I welcome your feedback.
- **If for any reason and at any time you want to stop the session, please let me know.** You will not be penalized in any way if we need to stop.
- **Are you comfortable if I record my screen and audio as we talk today?** We use the recordings to confirm that we have captured your opinions accurately.

Nextt, I'm going to send you a link to the VA webiste in the chat window. https://www.va.gov
Please go there now, and we'll start recording our session.
 

*Start recording.*

## Warm-Up Questions (10 minutes)

- Would you consider yourself a Veteran, a family member of a Veteran, or a caregiver for a Veteran
> yes, Veteran

- How would you describe your comfort level in English, for speaking and for reading? 
> both, fully proficient
  - Are there certain kinds of information you prefer to get in Spanish vs. English? 
>depends on nature - technical in english; translated content instead of being standardized is too regional 

  - Tell me about a situation where you wished there was a Spanish language version. 

- What kinds of information do you typically look online for in Spanish vs. English? 
> news in spanish; sometimes if it has a lot of regional i'll turn it into english; books in spanish to keep up proficiency.
  - Tell me more about that.
  - Are certain formats more helpful (for example, website vs. downloadable PDFs vs. in-person help at a regional office)?

- How do you usually get information about VA benefits and services?
> prefer benefits info in english. don't gtrrust VA's translation. matter of perception - not the greatest org to interact with, so something critical like my benefits, i don't expect the to do a good job. example of appointments, they were so careless, so i would not trust translation that did not have someone's hands on it, was jut a machine translating it. 



- Have you ever visited a VA website?
> not recently. 

  - What were you trying to do?
  >filing a compnesation claim - uploading all of that info; also i looked for confirmation of service letter; also for va loan - had to go through ebenefits and all that. but other than than i dont go to the va website. 

> will go to look for info for someone else, like a veteran friend who can't find it on the va website or can't understand the info. so i help them find information they're unable to. 
  - Tell me about that experience.
  
  - What would you expect to find on VA.gov? 
    - In Spanish?
   > context and navigation - if they're in spanish context, it should not change to english. 
   > my doctor's notes - i want to have access to those notes - i want to know why if the results are not what i expected, and i know it's not hippa related. 
  
   
    - What type of benefit information would be most helpful to have in Spanish?
>not that i'm aware but I didn't even know the VA site is available in spanish. 

  



## First Task:  Find VA home loan benefits information  (10 minutes)


For the next activity, I am going to ask you to share your screen. Imagine you're interested in learning about home loan benefits offered by  VA and about how to apply.  

Can you see the chat window or icon? I am sending you a link, please click on it. 

*Send link: https://projects.invisionapp.com/share/JNRWYURRY5Q#/screens

Tell me how you would get started from here. 

> i would link here, looks like a link because it's underlined and has a globe icon. clicked on it. [reads spanish content]
> very familiar with the content. [he scans and scrolls - reads] lost COE here, maybe bold it?
> [he goes back to English version] reserve members are veterans; a little bit confusing - English and spanish]; 
> tell me something is going to english if it goes to english; it's a little bit light - i mean this question is misplaced or not at the right level; if the button was placed to each of those [accordions rather than outside of them]; and go to the green [button].
> front load the apply button. 

(If they did not notice the Spanish link:) Please click on the link to see this page in Spanish. 

Tell me what you think here. 


What would you expect when you click on one of these links? 

(Have them click around and observe if they notice Spanish links or get confused by being sent to English pages from Spanish content.


**(If they did not go to the How to Apply page:) Please go to the How to Apply (home loans) page.**
https://projects.invisionapp.com/share/JNRWYURRY5Q#/screens/362227907

(If they did not notice the Spanish link:) Please click on the link to see this page in Spanish. 


Tell me what you think here. 
> this is interesting - i'm browsing it in spanish but only the conten that i was looking at, but i'm not sure that everyone else might get that it's just the [body] page, not the totality including navigation. 
> if i was browsing somethin in spanish, why am i back to something in english. 
> [he clicks back n forth between english and spanish] this COE - in home loans it comes at a different place; in english it's capitalized, but in spanish it's not. 
> [ scans and reads page and links] the structure here seems more helpful than in eligibility. 


**(If they did not go to the Survivors Program page:) Please go to the page about home loan programs for surviving spouses.** 
https://projects.invisionapp.com/share/JNRWYURRY5Q#/screens/362227909


Tell me what you think here. 
> [clicks to survivor page; scans english]  Survivors program - there's just one, so why does it say programs. 
> [clicks to spanish, scans, reads] super helpful to spell out COE...
> [tries to find how to apply] structure on this is challenging - i can't get a COE unless I'm already receiving benefits; [flips between English and spanish]
> if i'm a survivign spouse, i had to have been one that, need to find  regional center, 




## Second Task:  Find VA pension benefits information  (10 minutes)

For the next activity, imagine you're interested in learning about pension benefits for Veterans or for a Veteran's spouse or child.

Can you see the chat window or icon? I am sending you a link, please click on it. 

*Send link: https://projects.invisionapp.com/share/DCRWYHDNVPM#/screens 


Tell me how you would get started from here. 

 > [reads in spanish] 

**(If they did not notice the Spanish link:) Please click on the link to see this page in Spanish.**

Tell me what you think here. 



What would you expect when you click on one of these links? 




**(If they did not go to the How to Apply page:) Please go to the How to Apply (pension) page.** 
https://projects.invisionapp.com/share/DCRWYHDNVPM#/screens/362213464


(If they did not notice the Spanish link:) Please click on the link to see this page in Spanish. 


Tell me what you think here. 




**(If they did not go to the survivors pension page:) Please go to the page about pension benefits for surviving spouses and children.** 
https://projects.invisionapp.com/share/DCRWYHDNVPM#/screens/362213466

Tell me what you think here. 
> i would click on survivors pension; [reads in english]; one thing i would ask is that this structure is much clearer at giving me the info that i need; and the reason for that is how you're using headers, colors, and blocks. 
> [reads in spanish, scans page] this could be helpful in bullet points. biggest question i have is why do i have downlodad it instead of doing it all online

>this is more helpful even more than thte previous one; because evething is spelled out; [goes to eligibility] im doint a 1:1 comparison [flips bnt Eng and spaonish;  




## Follow-up Questions (5 minutes)

- What did you notice in general about the pages that you saw today? 
- Did you find anything particularly helpful or unhelpful?  
- Do you have any other thoughts you would like to share? 
- Or questions?

>survivors beneficiary content; like my mom, she speaks english but she would prefer to read it in spanish; some family members may not be in the u.s., knowing my mom i could imagine her wanting a physical but most important that she has something in spanish that she can print, enlarge, whatever she prefers. 

> populations that often feels forgotten, this is important

## Thank-You and Closing  (5 minutes)

We really appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us today. Your feedback is so helpful to us as we continue to work on the site and make sure it really works for all Veterans.

As a thank you for your participation, we'd like to offer you a $50 thank-you gift. 

Is it ok for our contractor Perigean to send that gift to the same email we used to communicate with you about scheduling this session? 

- **[If no:] **Ok, we'll follow up with an email after this session to get the right email from you in writing.



Lastly, would you like to share this feedback opportunity with other Veterans or Veteran groups you're a part of? If so, I can send you an email with a little blurb so you can easily connect folks to our team.

Thank you so much again, and enjoy the rest of your day. 

