
# Study: Spanish Translated Content Discovery Research - Desktop, 05/13/2019, P3

Carlos

- Veteran

- 55-64

- Male

- Hispanic/Latino/Spanish origin/Black/African American/White or Caucasian

- Army

- VA

- Spouse Spanish speaking

# Conversation Guide Spanish Translated Content Discovery Research

## Moderator logistics

*Log out of personal Google account. Sign into Perigean's meeting link using their Google account: 

*Here is the link:  [SEE ZOOM LINK IN INVITATION]

*Use [#feedback-backchannel](https://dsva.slack.com/messages/C40B45NJK/details/) in Slack for real-time feedback from observers.*

*Before the session, send out the [observer instructions](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/blob/master/platform/research/during-research/howto-observer-instructions.md) to your observers (Slackbot will do this for you if you type "observer instructions" into #feedback-backchannel).*

*In the Attendees section, make sure everyone except the participant is on mute*.

*In the Audio section, click the drop-down arrow and make sure "Play Entry/Exit Chimes" is unchecked*.

*Check your screensharing setup:* Be sure to close extraneous windows as needed.

**Set-up screen sharing (verify participant is using desktop version): 
Please click Share in your Zoom, to make sure you're able to do that with us today. 

If user is not able to screen share, verify that they are using the desktop application, not the browser. User may need to exit and re-join. Tell them to run and download the application when prompted, instead of clicking on the 'browser' option. 

*When the participant is ready, begin the session with the following intro:*


## Intro (5 minutes)

Thanks for joining us today! My name is  [CAROLA] and I also have some colleagues on the line observing and taking notes. Today we're going to talk about the benefit information that's offered in Spanish on the VA.gov website. 

Before we start, I want to mention a few things:

- **This entire session should take about 45 minutes** I want to be sure not to keep you much longer, so I may occasionally prompt you with the next question or topic.
- **In this session, we want to hear your honest opinions.** So please talk out loud as you have thoughts about each task. We are not testing your ability. We just want to improve the website to better meet Veteran's needs. I will not be offended by any opinions you express, and I welcome your feedback.
- **If for any reason and at any time you want to stop the session, please let me know.** You will not be penalized in any way if we need to stop.
- **Are you comfortable if I record my screen and audio as we talk today?** We use the recordings to confirm that we have captured your opinions accurately.

Nextt, I'm going to send you a link to the VA webiste in the chat window. https://www.va.gov
Please go there now, and we'll start recording our session.
 

*Start recording.*

## Warm-Up Questions (10 minutes)

- Would you consider yourself a Veteran, a family member of a Veteran, or a caregiver for a Veteran
> i'm a veteran. 

- How would you describe your comfort level in English, for speaking and for reading? 
> love both of them - we could flip [speaking in spanish] 

  - Are there certain kinds of information you prefer to get in Spanish vs. English? 
> my mother in law is a widow, husband was a veteran; she doesn't understand english. my wife can speak and read but prefers spanish.
> for me, something called american spanish. (i live in VA.) both of my children, wife, and mother in law speak spanish with them. 
> never thought va had spanish information. my mother always mails me the letters sent to her because it's in english. 
> she's 83, she depends on us to look for information for her. her sioster's husband also. whenever she has a question. 
> we just talk, she can hardly write. 
> there used to be a pamphlet sent out every year with benefits, with all the info in the booklet, and I put in all my info and phone numbers in there. - all in english.

  - Tell me about a situation where you wished there was a Spanish language version. 

- What kinds of information do you typically look online for in Spanish vs. English? 

  - Tell me more about that.
  - Are certain formats more helpful (for example, website vs. downloadable PDFs vs. in-person help at a regional office)?
  > i have a folder but you guys change so many stuff. for me, it's easier to just talk to her, tell her. if you print it, it gets obsolete 6 months later. 
  > i like to go online. it's easier. 
  

- How do you usually get information about VA benefits and services?
 
  - For yourself or for someone else?

- Have you ever visited a VA website?
> yes, to order prescriptions. Talk to my doctor. one thing i don't like is they make you log in twice. you sign in and then it make you log in again but you're already signed in. 

  - What were you trying to do?
 >ask question to my doctor
  
  - Tell me about that experience.
  > to me it was simple. i have no issue. but if i have a test done, and ... i dont know what im looking at. 
  
  - What would you expect to find on VA.gov? 
    - In Spanish?
    - What type of benefit information would be most helpful to have in Spanish?
    > like vgli, like essential things that a dependent should have if their veteran ... who can i call - maionly medical, also about mental issues - they don't realzie they have issues, they don't want to accespt, but the wife, mother, if they can communicate. if there's a mental health person, so  they can speak to in spanish. online, you always have it. 
    > i love my computer. online to me is perfect.
    > also financial. for example - the issue you have with disability - do it over and over. i'm pretty sure there'a button, to submit a "rebuttal." 

  



## First Task:  Find VA home loan benefits information  (10 minutes)


For the next activity, I am going to ask you to share your screen. Imagine you're interested in learning about home loan benefits offered by  VA and about how to apply.  

Can you see the chat window or icon? I am sending you a link, please click on it. 

*Send link: https://projects.invisionapp.com/share/JNRWYURRY5Q#/screens

Tell me how you would get started from here. 
> can i click it. [he clicks espanol link and reads and scrolls]


(If they did not notice the Spanish link:) Please click on the link to see this page in Spanish. 

Tell me what you think here. 
> 

What would you expect when you click on one of these links? 

(Have them click around and observe if they notice Spanish links or get confused by being sent to English pages from Spanish content.
> [reads content] si - he understands "coe"
> [clicks on accordion] i gotcha, it's not working yet. 



**(If they did not go to the How to Apply page:) Please go to the How to Apply (home loans) page.**
https://projects.invisionapp.com/share/JNRWYURRY5Q#/screens/362227907

(If they did not notice the Spanish link:) Please click on the link to see this page in Spanish. 


Tell me what you think here. 
> [ebenefits] beneficios electronico or "ebenefits"? beneficios electronico
> [speaks in english]
> [nav links - clicks - ] oh, its in english! (in spanish) click, then it goes to spanish (in spanish). [talks about his spouse... ] 
> prefers that everything is in spanish. now you have to click on the left link, then it goes to english, and i have to click on the spanish. 
> everything in spanish ... that would be better. 
> service member is active duty - that's confusing. 
> [spends some time observing confusing english content]
> 



**(If they did not go to the Survivors Program page:) Please go to the page about home loan programs for surviving spouses.** 
https://projects.invisionapp.com/share/JNRWYURRY5Q#/screens/362227909


Tell me what you think here. 
> [discusses spanish content] - questions are confusing [of FAQs]
> [reads spanish survivor link] clicks to page. okay, it's in english though. so now ihave to clidk on spanish because i don't speak english. 
> that's pretty cool. it's not perfect, but it's at a level that's easier - the language and the information. the layout is cleaner, but now i want more. [reads in spanish]
> i wouldn't use that word. you mind if i go to the english. oh it's the same, they use 'true' but that's not right in spanish. 'qualify' or 'requirements have to be met' - not like  true/lies. 


## Second Task:  Find VA pension benefits information  (10 minutes)

For the next activity, imagine you're interested in learning about pension benefits for Veterans or for a Veteran's spouse or child.

Can you see the chat window or icon? I am sending you a link, please click on it. 

*Send link: https://projects.invisionapp.com/share/DCRWYHDNVPM#/screens 


Tell me how you would get started from here. 

> I expect an apply button, info on how to look up my pension payments, direct deposit info like if I change banks. 

**(If they did not notice the Spanish link:) Please click on the link to see this page in Spanish.**

Tell me what you think here. 

> / / is a better word. too many y - y - valor shouldn't be here. ... so you might want to use a different word here. 
> [scrolls, reads/scans] i don't know what this means - de alta. that means when you're in a hospital. maybe when you leave the military. i'm going to check in english - yep, discharge "upgrade" - you can rebuttal your discharge, you don't upgrade your discharge. 


What would you expect when you click on one of these links? 




**(If they did not go to the How to Apply page:) Please go to the How to Apply (pension) page.** 
https://projects.invisionapp.com/share/DCRWYHDNVPM#/screens/362213464


(If they did not notice the Spanish link:) Please click on the link to see this page in Spanish. 


Tell me what you think here. 

> 


**(If they did not go to the survivors pension page:) Please go to the page about pension benefits for surviving spouses and children.** 
https://projects.invisionapp.com/share/DCRWYHDNVPM#/screens/362213466

Tell me what you think here. 
> [reads in spanish] i don't like it - it's how you talk, not how you write. it doesn't go, it's too literal. 
> [speaks in spanish]

> [goes to survivors pension page from chat window; scans; reads]
> [speaks in spanish]



## Follow-up Questions (5 minutes)

- What did you notice in general about the pages that you saw today? 
- Did you find anything particularly helpful or unhelpful? 
- Do you have any other thoughts you would like to share? 
- Or questions?

> i love what you do because ajority of ppl dont do this wth testing it. ppl outside don't know anything. so thank you for choosing me. even if you need someone - i love this - this is our service. 
> [re wife spanish speaker maybe giving feedback?] she does, but my wife has an ipad, only comes home on weekends. 
> i have a lot of bilingual friends
> for me, both languages no problem but for family - all the benefits. 

## Thank-You and Closing  (5 minutes)

We really appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us today. Your feedback is so helpful to us as we continue to work on the site and make sure it really works for all Veterans.

As a thank you for your participation, we'd like to offer you a $50 thank-you gift. 

Is it ok for our contractor Perigean to send that gift to the same email we used to communicate with you about scheduling this session? 

- **[If no:] **Ok, we'll follow up with an email after this session to get the right email from you in writing.



Lastly, would you like to share this feedback opportunity with other Veterans or Veteran groups you're a part of? If so, I can send you an email with a little blurb so you can easily connect folks to our team.

Thank you so much again, and enjoy the rest of your day. 

