
# Study: Spanish Translated Content Discovery Research - Desktop, 05/14/2019, P4

Michael

- Veteran

- Age not given

- Male

- Hispanic/Latino/Spanish origin

- Marines

- DC

- VA employee

# Conversation Guide Spanish Translated Content Discovery Research

## Moderator logistics

*Log out of personal Google account. Sign into Perigean's meeting link using their Google account: 

*Here is the link:  [SEE ZOOM LINK IN INVITATION]

*Use [#feedback-backchannel](https://dsva.slack.com/messages/C40B45NJK/details/) in Slack for real-time feedback from observers.*

*Before the session, send out the [observer instructions](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/blob/master/platform/research/during-research/howto-observer-instructions.md) to your observers (Slackbot will do this for you if you type "observer instructions" into #feedback-backchannel).*

*In the Attendees section, make sure everyone except the participant is on mute*.

*In the Audio section, click the drop-down arrow and make sure "Play Entry/Exit Chimes" is unchecked*.

*Check your screensharing setup:* Be sure to close extraneous windows as needed.

**Set-up screen sharing (verify participant is using desktop version): 
Please click Share in your Zoom, to make sure you're able to do that with us today. 

If user is not able to screen share, verify that they are using the desktop application, not the browser. User may need to exit and re-join. Tell them to run and download the application when prompted, instead of clicking on the 'browser' option. 

*When the participant is ready, begin the session with the following intro:*


## Intro (5 minutes)

Thanks for joining us today! My name is  [CAROLA] and I also have some colleagues on the line observing and taking notes. Today we're going to talk about the benefit information that's offered in Spanish on the VA.gov website. 

Before we start, I want to mention a few things:

- **This entire session should take about 45 minutes** I want to be sure not to keep you much longer, so I may occasionally prompt you with the next question or topic.
- **In this session, we want to hear your honest opinions.** So please talk out loud as you have thoughts about each task. We are not testing your ability. We just want to improve the website to better meet Veteran's needs. I will not be offended by any opinions you express, and I welcome your feedback.
- **If for any reason and at any time you want to stop the session, please let me know.** You will not be penalized in any way if we need to stop.
- **Are you comfortable if I record my screen and audio as we talk today?** We use the recordings to confirm that we have captured your opinions accurately.

Nextt, I'm going to send you a link to the VA webiste in the chat window. https://www.va.gov
Please go there now, and we'll start recording our session.
 

*Start recording.*

## Warm-Up Questions (10 minutes)

- Would you consider yourself a Veteran, a family member of a Veteran, or a caregiver for a Veteran
> Yes - veteran

- How would you describe your comfort level in English, for speaking and for reading? 
> I understand way more than can speak. Engough to get by, if you dropped me in PR, I can figure it out. 

  - Are there certain kinds of information you prefer to get in Spanish vs. English? 
> Not really (for myself), I help my grandfather and grandmother; translate text that is in English to Spanish. Like the SSAdmin site, but it wasn't working for them. Medicare, Medicaide the most. Renters insurance. 
>Not for family but for friends stationed in PR. Recently my mom's friend he was in Vietnam War and needed help getting benefits. I had to translate everything in Spanish and tell him what was avaiable for him - friends of friends, helping translate. 
>He had exposure to agent orange and had cancer. he used hsi private insurance. wasn't signed up for VA health care. So we signed him up for VA health care and looked up exposures on the website. We wento to the VBA side so we could start getting him signed up for benefits. He was desperate to see what other resources that was out there. 
>

  - Tell me about a situation where you wished there was a Spanish language version. 

- What kinds of information do you typically look online for in Spanish vs. English? 

  - Tell me more about that.
  - Are certain formats more helpful (for example, website vs. downloadable PDFs vs. in-person help at a regional office)?
  > I was looking for anything and all the web info on search it wasn't related to what we were looking for. office of research developement or media release... useless information not related to what we were looking for. 
  

- How do you usually get information about VA benefits and services?
 
  - For yourself or for someone else?

- Have you ever visited a VA website?
> Yes. Pretty familiar. to review status of my VA claim in the disability section. Check your claiom status, upload evidence. that's really it. these other things - my brother is a marine veteran - i help him find what he's looking for. 


  - What were you trying to do?
 >
  
  - Tell me about that experience.
  > i think it's clean but more useful to have this section at the top. there's so many things that veterans are looking for. a search bar, like how google is, you start typing something, and it brings up everything related to that. like if you started typing agent orange. instead of going to THIS search and everything in the world coming up. 
  > it was a challenge for my mom's friend. he didn't understand 90 % of this stuff. too complicated for him [in english]. [his comfort level with english] is very miniomal english. all he needed for military service wwas to say yes sir, no sir and that was it. 
  >
  
  - What would you expect to find on VA.gov? 
    - In Spanish?
    - What type of benefit information would be most helpful to have in Spanish?
    >  

  



## First Task:  Find VA home loan benefits information  (10 minutes)


For the next activity, I am going to ask you to share your screen. Imagine you're interested in learning about home loan benefits offered by  VA and about how to apply.  

Can you see the chat window or icon? I am sending you a link, please click on it. 

*Send link: https://projects.invisionapp.com/share/JNRWYURRY5Q#/screens

Tell me how you would get started from here. 
> i've looked at it but not in detail. 
> is it gonna switch or...? yeah ah right here. see that doesn't pop out to me. maybe hightlight it or something like that. 
> i think honestly at the top where it says official website of the united states, or in this gray thing. something that stands out but is still in the background. i have a background in web design, so i kinda know what approach to take. 



(If they did not notice the Spanish link:) Please click on the link to see this page in Spanish. 

Tell me what you think here. 
> This is to apply for benefits. i don't know if... is this another one here? to go through the regional.
> [lef nav] oh its not in spanish [he didn't notice it at all until asked to look at the left nav] - how to apply, loan types, check appeal status -- of the loan? surviving spouse program what does that mean for home loans. 

What would you expect when you click on one of these links? 

(Have them click around and observe if they notice Spanish links or get confused by being sent to English pages from Spanish content.
> 



**(If they did not go to the How to Apply page:) Please go to the How to Apply (home loans) page.**
https://projects.invisionapp.com/share/JNRWYURRY5Q#/screens/362227907

(If they did not notice the Spanish link:) Please click on the link to see this page in Spanish. 


Tell me what you think here. 
> i think if you have how to apply it should be -- this is a good design actually, i would even put the ebenefits up here, we just want to get it done. click here to apply or whatever. and these acronyms are not the best becasue the va uses a lot. we have ppl who just don't even know like the office acronym, pple in the office didn't even know. 

> i think it's clear but text could be simplified in spanish. i've helped a lot of spanish speaking veteran, i don't know if their reading level is high, i think keeping it 6th grade reading level would help. 
> and for example my dad was in the army and had a lower reading level. he wouldn't even read it all and would ask me. it's generational thing. but recently i was stationed in PR for instance, and yeah, i would simplify and i would put the green button up  here. 
> look at how this whole part is taking up so much space. 


**(If they did not go to the Survivors Program page:) Please go to the page about home loan programs for surviving spouses.** 
https://projects.invisionapp.com/share/JNRWYURRY5Q#/screens/362227909


Tell me what you think here. 
>  so the only thing if the left menu if we're switching it on spanish, save your setting and change everything to spanish.
> [scans and read spanish page] Acronyms would be different in spanish - i would like to see them in both. Spell it out really. 

> [re helping your dad in spanish] maybe 3-4 x/ week, often. if there was - i would just go to the spanish page so i wouldn't have to translate and read it as is. veteran doesn't care about the acronym, if they're contacting the va and the va says we need your COE, the veteran is not going to ... remembr that with so many acronyms... like IRLL. I wouldn't remember that. 


## Second Task:  Find VA pension benefits information  (10 minutes)

For the next activity, imagine you're interested in learning about pension benefits for Veterans or for a Veteran's spouse or child.

Can you see the chat window or icon? I am sending you a link, please click on it. 

*Send link: https://projects.invisionapp.com/share/DCRWYHDNVPM#/screens 


Tell me how you would get started from here. 

> 

**(If they did not notice the Spanish link:) Please click on the link to see this page in Spanish.**

Tell me what you think here. 

>  ... i don't know how many ppl would use this. 
> honestly i would get the info from them and if they join prior to or after 1981 or whatever, i would help them get the answer, not help them navigate the site, they're not going to read it all or if they do, they're not going to remember it. i'll gie them a simple one line overview if they can apply for these benefits or health care. 
> 


What would you expect when you click on one of these links? 




**(If they did not go to the How to Apply page:) Please go to the How to Apply (pension) page.** 
https://projects.invisionapp.com/share/DCRWYHDNVPM#/screens/362213464


(If they did not notice the Spanish link:) Please click on the link to see this page in Spanish. 


Tell me what you think here. 

> i think this is pretty simple what to do but i would those two pages could be merged together. 


**(If they did not go to the survivors pension page:) Please go to the page about pension benefits for surviving spouses and children.** 
https://projects.invisionapp.com/share/DCRWYHDNVPM#/screens/362213466

Tell me what you think here. 

> [clicks to spanish, scans page] this stuff is duplicated from the other page. same things were on the other page. 
> sorry this part is duplicated again. outside of duplicated based on these pages, i would how to apply and apply now, they want to find everything right there. 



## Follow-up Questions (5 minutes)

- What did you notice in general about the pages that you saw today? 
- Did you find anything particularly helpful or unhelpful? 
- Do you have any other thoughts you would like to share? 
- Or questions?

> only thing is if you're entitle to the benefits, sometiomes these things get complicated, where and time period and that can be simplified and merge so instead of 10 page, have 4 pages. simplifying the text. without going into detail. the benefits process is extremely complicated. like my dad, without help couldn't start the process, and he's 51, not that old. 

> two things would be great to share info - simple video or 1 page document, translated into english and spanish, so older pple and younger ppl can watch a video instead of reading. 
> dad is relying on me. tried to search the website before and called the 800 but language is a barrier. and he says he understands but he doesn't really. 
> older and even young veterans like to print it out and write on it, or a video. 
> 

## Thank-You and Closing  (5 minutes)

We really appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us today. Your feedback is so helpful to us as we continue to work on the site and make sure it really works for all Veterans.

As a thank you for your participation, we'd like to offer you a $50 thank-you gift. 

Is it ok for our contractor Perigean to send that gift to the same email we used to communicate with you about scheduling this session? 

- **[If no:] **Ok, we'll follow up with an email after this session to get the right email from you in writing.



Lastly, would you like to share this feedback opportunity with other Veterans or Veteran groups you're a part of? If so, I can send you an email with a little blurb so you can easily connect folks to our team.

Thank you so much again, and enjoy the rest of your day. 
