
# Study: Spanish Translated Content Discovery Research - Desktop, 05/14/2019, P5

Suzanne

- Veteran

- Age not given

- Female

- Hispanic/Latino/Spanish origin

- Navy

- NC

- Father is Hispanic/spanish speaker

# Conversation Guide Spanish Translated Content Discovery Research

## Moderator logistics

*Log out of personal Google account. Sign into Perigean's meeting link using their Google account: 

*Here is the link:  [SEE ZOOM LINK IN INVITATION]

*Use [#feedback-backchannel](https://dsva.slack.com/messages/C40B45NJK/details/) in Slack for real-time feedback from observers.*

*Before the session, send out the [observer instructions](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/blob/master/platform/research/during-research/howto-observer-instructions.md) to your observers (Slackbot will do this for you if you type "observer instructions" into #feedback-backchannel).*

*In the Attendees section, make sure everyone except the participant is on mute*.

*In the Audio section, click the drop-down arrow and make sure "Play Entry/Exit Chimes" is unchecked*.

*Check your screensharing setup:* Be sure to close extraneous windows as needed.

**Set-up screen sharing (verify participant is using desktop version): 
Please click Share in your Zoom, to make sure you're able to do that with us today. 

If user is not able to screen share, verify that they are using the desktop application, not the browser. User may need to exit and re-join. Tell them to run and download the application when prompted, instead of clicking on the 'browser' option. 

*When the participant is ready, begin the session with the following intro:*


## Intro (5 minutes)

Thanks for joining us today! My name is  [CAROLA] and I also have some colleagues on the line observing and taking notes. Today we're going to talk about the benefit information that's offered in Spanish on the VA.gov website. 

Before we start, I want to mention a few things:

- **This entire session should take about 45 minutes** I want to be sure not to keep you much longer, so I may occasionally prompt you with the next question or topic.
- **In this session, we want to hear your honest opinions.** So please talk out loud as you have thoughts about each task. We are not testing your ability. We just want to improve the website to better meet Veteran's needs. I will not be offended by any opinions you express, and I welcome your feedback.
- **If for any reason and at any time you want to stop the session, please let me know.** You will not be penalized in any way if we need to stop.
- **Are you comfortable if I record my screen and audio as we talk today?** We use the recordings to confirm that we have captured your opinions accurately.

Nextt, I'm going to send you a link to the VA webiste in the chat window. https://www.va.gov
Please go there now, and we'll start recording our session.
 

*Start recording.*

## Warm-Up Questions (10 minutes)

- Would you consider yourself a Veteran, a family member of a Veteran, or a caregiver for a Veteran
> Veteran

- How would you describe your comfort level in English, for speaking and for reading? 
>  In general? I can read but don't write in Spanish. I speak more, with my Dad becaus he's hispanic.

  - Are there certain kinds of information you prefer to get in Spanish vs. English? 
> Not really a preference. Either one. I can switch. I prefer speaking English, but don't like writingin Spanish.
>I speak Spanish almost everyday. At work. With ppl who are hispanic if that's their preference. I'm a registered nurse. 

  - Tell me about a situation where you wished there was a Spanish language version. 

- What kinds of information do you typically look online for in Spanish vs. English? 
> Not normally (look for info in Spanish)
> If i need to help someone but I'm not usually good at finding things like that.
> most of the veterans i deal with are older and don't like going online. they like on the phone. 
> i'll look for things online. 

  - Tell me more about that.
  - Are certain formats more helpful (for example, website vs. downloadable PDFs vs. in-person help at a regional office)?
  
  

- How do you usually get information about VA benefits and services?
 
  - For yourself or for someone else?

- Have you ever visited a VA website?
> No i haven't. So continue to the new va.gov? wow it's changed a lot. 
> [scrolls] yeah but more use the health side like to refill my prescription. usually my healthevet. don't usually go through the va website. go directly to my healthevet, usually once a month. 



  - What were you trying to do?
 
  
  - Tell me about that experience.
  
  
  - What would you expect to find on VA.gov? 
    - In Spanish?
    - What type of benefit information would be most helpful to have in Spanish?
    > [veteran info in spanish] for me not really because i can do both languages.

  



## First Task:  Find VA home loan benefits information  (10 minutes)


For the next activity, I am going to ask you to share your screen. Imagine you're interested in learning about home loan benefits offered by  VA and about how to apply.  

Can you see the chat window or icon? I am sending you a link, please click on it. 

*Send link: https://projects.invisionapp.com/share/JNRWYURRY5Q#/screens

Tell me how you would get started from here. 
> so now it's loading. is this it? 
> yeah, yeah. rigth here where it says [spanish]. [clicks]
> 



(If they did not notice the Spanish link:) Please click on the link to see this page in Spanish. 

Tell me what you think here. 
> i can this is where you can click if you're a veteran or reserves. 
> i would first look at requirements. 
> i don't think they're eligible for anything. (family member)

What would you expect when you click on one of these links? 

(Have them click around and observe if they notice Spanish links or get confused by being sent to English pages from Spanish content.
> [clicks] oh it goes back to english. i don't like that part. once you pick spanish, can't they keep everything in spanish if i'm already on the spanish site. not going back to english. 
> oh i see it's different [on the spanish pg]. oh these don't work yet [ accordions]. 
> this is benefits again [hovers on button]
> info seems good like if you're in different classes and different ways to apply.
> here it tells you eligibility, and then the application. there's nothing i can think of. 



**(If they did not go to the How to Apply page:) Please go to the How to Apply (home loans) page.**
https://projects.invisionapp.com/share/JNRWYURRY5Q#/screens/362227907

(If they did not notice the Spanish link:) Please click on the link to see this page in Spanish. 


Tell me what you think here. 
 



**(If they did not go to the Survivors Program page:) Please go to the page about home loan programs for surviving spouses.** 
https://projects.invisionapp.com/share/JNRWYURRY5Q#/screens/362227909


Tell me what you think here. 
>  and then you have to flip it to spanish. i don't like that. to me it should stay in spanish. when i've gone to other websites, when i've flipped to spanish, it stays that way until you change it back to english. 

>[scans] does this tell you about the forms. i think it would be on this page somewhere - where the form goes. maybe it's on teh form? 
> submit it online is my preference than have to mail it in. 
> beside the address. do they have a section for questions, like a contact if i can't fill it out. especially if i'm a surviving spouse, they might need more help. 
> somewhere on the bottom, like where it says contact us. but see none of this is in spanish, and if you don't know english that's not going to help you. 


## Second Task:  Find VA pension benefits information  (10 minutes)

For the next activity, imagine you're interested in learning about pension benefits for Veterans or for a Veteran's spouse or child.

Can you see the chat window or icon? I am sending you a link, please click on it. 

*Send link: https://projects.invisionapp.com/share/DCRWYHDNVPM#/screens 


Tell me how you would get started from here. 

> This is pensions. [clicks spanish link] 
> [scans, scrolls, reads] 

**(If they did not notice the Spanish link:) Please click on the link to see this page in Spanish.**

Tell me what you think here. 

>  to apply - right here where the green button is. 
> 


What would you expect when you click on one of these links? 




**(If they did not go to the How to Apply page:) Please go to the How to Apply (pension) page.** 
https://projects.invisionapp.com/share/DCRWYHDNVPM#/screens/362213464


(If they did not notice the Spanish link:) Please click on the link to see this page in Spanish. 


Tell me what you think here. 

> the left side, to me, this should be in spanish too. 
> to me it's pretty good [the content] it gives you all the information. oh someone professinoal can help me - that's nice - not me but other people would like that, that need help. 
> like someone with power of attorney who can help them out. 



**(If they did not go to the survivors pension page:) Please go to the page about pension benefits for surviving spouses and children.** 
https://projects.invisionapp.com/share/DCRWYHDNVPM#/screens/362213466

Tell me what you think here. 

> [clicks] gotta flip it again [ clicks spanish]. 
> i work at a va. these are other ways to apply. so this one you can't apply online. it doesn't look like you can. there should be a way to apply online too. there's no button for apply online. 
> the bottom should be in spanish [footer].
> i think the blue box layout is overwhelming. it' s all a bunch of information all at once. you know how you can click something and it shows you more. or you answer some questions and it gives you the info, based on your answers. 
> some website - the passport website like that, passport.gov. it told you if you qualified to get a new or to renew. 
> this stuff is kind of straightforward. all the info is helpful. 
> all the stuff that's in english and not in spanish [is unhelpful]. 
> [usual resource for helping veterans in spanish] mine is more health care not benefits. CPRS - linked to the software that VA uses, i don't know if it's external or internal. 
> the info will automatically translate to spanish, like information about diabetes, and you can print it out for the veteran. 




## Follow-up Questions (5 minutes)

- What did you notice in general about the pages that you saw today? 
- Did you find anything particularly helpful or unhelpful? 
- Do you have any other thoughts you would like to share? 
- Or questions?

> not really. 

## Thank-You and Closing  (5 minutes)

We really appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us today. Your feedback is so helpful to us as we continue to work on the site and make sure it really works for all Veterans.

As a thank you for your participation, we'd like to offer you a $50 thank-you gift. 

Is it ok for our contractor Perigean to send that gift to the same email we used to communicate with you about scheduling this session? 

- **[If no:] **Ok, we'll follow up with an email after this session to get the right email from you in writing.



Lastly, would you like to share this feedback opportunity with other Veterans or Veteran groups you're a part of? If so, I can send you an email with a little blurb so you can easily connect folks to our team.

Thank you so much again, and enjoy the rest of your day. 
