
# Study: Spanish Translated Content Discovery Research - Desktop, 05/15/2019, P7

Hector

- Veteran

- Age not given

- Male

- Hispanic/Latino/Spanish origin

- Army

- AZ

- 

# Conversation Guide Spanish Translated Content Discovery Research

## Moderator logistics

*Log out of personal Google account. Sign into Perigean's meeting link using their Google account: 

*Here is the link:  [SEE ZOOM LINK IN INVITATION]

*Use [#feedback-backchannel](https://dsva.slack.com/messages/C40B45NJK/details/) in Slack for real-time feedback from observers.*

*Before the session, send out the [observer instructions](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/blob/master/platform/research/during-research/howto-observer-instructions.md) to your observers (Slackbot will do this for you if you type "observer instructions" into #feedback-backchannel).*

*In the Attendees section, make sure everyone except the participant is on mute*.

*In the Audio section, click the drop-down arrow and make sure "Play Entry/Exit Chimes" is unchecked*.

*Check your screensharing setup:* Be sure to close extraneous windows as needed.

**Set-up screen sharing (verify participant is using desktop version): 
Please click Share in your Zoom, to make sure you're able to do that with us today. 

If user is not able to screen share, verify that they are using the desktop application, not the browser. User may need to exit and re-join. Tell them to run and download the application when prompted, instead of clicking on the 'browser' option. 

*When the participant is ready, begin the session with the following intro:*


## Intro (5 minutes)

Thanks for joining us today! My name is  [CAROLA] and I also have some colleagues on the line observing and taking notes. Today we're going to talk about the benefit information that's offered in Spanish on the VA.gov website. 

Before we start, I want to mention a few things:

- **This entire session should take about 45 minutes** I want to be sure not to keep you much longer, so I may occasionally prompt you with the next question or topic.
- **In this session, we want to hear your honest opinions.** So please talk out loud as you have thoughts about each task. We are not testing your ability. We just want to improve the website to better meet Veteran's needs. I will not be offended by any opinions you express, and I welcome your feedback.
- **If for any reason and at any time you want to stop the session, please let me know.** You will not be penalized in any way if we need to stop.
- **Are you comfortable if I record my screen and audio as we talk today?** We use the recordings to confirm that we have captured your opinions accurately.

Nextt, I'm going to send you a link to the VA webiste in the chat window. https://www.va.gov
Please go there now, and we'll start recording our session.
 

*Start recording.*

## Warm-Up Questions (10 minutes)

- Would you consider yourself a Veteran, a family member of a Veteran, or a caregiver for a Veteran
> Veteran

- How would you describe your comfort level in English, for speaking and for reading? 
> [ both]

  - Are there certain kinds of information you prefer to get in Spanish vs. English? 
> maybe yes, like whole benefit thing. if you ask me what are your benefits, i don't know them all. maybe in spanish it's more specific, that would be cool that way i know 100 % with what my benefits are. i know myhealth is not complete. 
> i don't know what my benefits are. i can go to my doctor, but someone was asking me  and I didn't know the answer. if i need to go to emergency room, where do i go? i have a whole bunch of hospitals near me, but they're not VA hospitals. can i go anywhere or i have to go to the va one. 
> i've been checking and in truth i did not find the answer. 

  - Tell me about a situation where you wished there was a Spanish language version. 

- What kinds of information do you typically look online for in Spanish vs. English? 
> 

  - Tell me more about that.
  - Are certain formats more helpful (for example, website vs. downloadable PDFs vs. in-person help at a regional office)?
  
  

- How do you usually get information about VA benefits and services?
 
  - For yourself or for someone else?
  > for my wife, only happened once. what benefit she might have. in case what happens to me, things like that. benefits she has because of me, if i'm not here. 
  > no, normally, she reads and understands english, but spanish is a lot easier for her. it's her main language. 
  >

- Have you ever visited a VA website?
> YES A few times. 



  - What were you trying to do?
  > when i go into the page, normally just to check medical appointments, medications, lab tests and results, to schedule and go refill my medication, oh and to order the medication when it's tie. 
  
  - Tell me about that experience.
  
  
  - What would you expect to find on VA.gov? 
    - In Spanish?
    > mostly in english. but i hve no problem with spanish it's my main language. i don't remember doing it in spanish, but sometimes - cell phone, i'm used to do everything in english. sometimes in spanish it's a little bit hard because they use different words in spanish. like i'm from PR but maybe the person who translated is from Latin America. and the english, it's like neutral. 
    
    - What type of benefit information would be most helpful to have in Spanish?
    > 

  

[FIRST TASK SKIPPED - INVISION ISSUE]




## Second Task:  Find VA pension benefits information  (10 minutes)

For the next activity, imagine you're interested in learning about pension benefits for Veterans or for a Veteran's spouse or child.

Can you see the chat window or icon? I am sending you a link, please click on it. 

*Send link: https://projects.invisionapp.com/share/DCRWYHDNVPM#/screens 


Tell me how you would get started from here. 

> [he scrolls to bottom of page] you mean if i rather have this information in spanish. oh yeah, at the top. [clicks on it]


**(If they did not notice the Spanish link:) Please click on the link to see this page in Spanish.**

Tell me what you think here. 

>  it was easy, right on the top. 

What would you expect when you click on one of these links? 

> yeah, i guess so. yeah. 

> the benefits. i'm getting information, if i have a pension i can get more information about it. i see that on the left it's in english. wouldn't it be confusing for some ppl? not to me, but maybe some ppl looking for spanish, they might want the whole thing in spanish. 


**(If they did not go to the How to Apply page:) Please go to the How to Apply (pension) page.** 
https://projects.invisionapp.com/share/DCRWYHDNVPM#/screens/362213464


(If they did not notice the Spanish link:) Please click on the link to see this page in Spanish. 


Tell me what you think here. 

> [he clicks how to apply on nav] if i'm looking for info in spanish and i go first to spanish page, it should send me straing to spanish version. 
> i see at the top [ clicks spanish link] 
> i think it's very, first eligible for benefit, that's what i want to know before i start application. 
> it says all the info i might need ahead, that's perfect. 



**(If they did not go to the survivors pension page:) Please go to the page about pension benefits for surviving spouses and children.** 
https://projects.invisionapp.com/share/DCRWYHDNVPM#/screens/362213466

Tell me what you think here. 

>  [he looks for survivors pension; clicks] i change it to spanish. it's lets say, it's straightforward [the info]. [ scans, scrolls] i don't see for example it's over here, the way to know if you're eligible it's concise, clear. 

> maybe i would... no answer is here. 




## Follow-up Questions (5 minutes)

- What did you notice in general about the pages that you saw today? 
> i like it, it's very clear, concise. if somebody comes for the first time, it's very simple. not too many fancy words. bc sometimes they use language like in court and most of the ppl are not, they don't want that. short information, not a lot of information about one thing. 
> to me, it's very helpful. i'm not gonna say 100 but 99% i found it in english or spanish and it's very clear. 

> to make it better, i would say, instead of read this page, click it and then everything in spanish, in stead of having to click it every time until you exit the page or whole thing. 

- Did you find anything particularly helpful or unhelpful? 

> no, i think everything is giving the answers to some of the questions i might have is here. 
> i have my kids, but we never talk about it, only me and my wife. 
> my brother. he lives here in AZ, but he'd rather have everythig, read everything in spanish. 
> no, his case is different. national guard for 20 years in PR and AZ. i've told him about this website to see if he qualifies, i know he is, but i don't think so. leaves everything for tomorrow. 
> [most helpful benefit to have in spanish] if i do qualify, that would be the first thing. i want to know before i get into reading more; and what would be my benefit if i qualify - pension, health service -- most veterans that i know are more concerned about health than anything else. 
> none of them heard of this web/page. i went to VA, i told him about webpage [site], va.gov. 
> my healthevet, the tool one that i go to. i look for information in spanish on va.gov, but not in myhealth - because i only check for my medication. so you know exactly where it is. but if i wan t to know more info about it, then i go to va and can read about it in spanish. 

- Do you have any other thoughts you would like to share? 

> [his wife] where i might need to go if i need to see, in case of an emergency, where should she take me, that way she won't have to call or ask around or go into the commputer in that moment, if she had that information to read through beforehand. 
> i'll say pamphlet in her case, so she knows where it is, right when she needs it. i think in the mail. a little bit old fashioned here. 
> if i, when i pass away, what benefits i have, what she can do, who she has to call, that would be useful. 
> i don't even have a cell phone. i rather use my laptop. my wife has a cell phone. on the phone, yes, useful, but she prefer getting mail. she likes to file. 
> 

- Or questions?

>  

## Thank-You and Closing  (5 minutes)

We really appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us today. Your feedback is so helpful to us as we continue to work on the site and make sure it really works for all Veterans.

As a thank you for your participation, we'd like to offer you a $50 thank-you gift. 

Is it ok for our contractor Perigean to send that gift to the same email we used to communicate with you about scheduling this session? 

- **[If no:] **Ok, we'll follow up with an email after this session to get the right email from you in writing.

Lastly, would you like to share this feedback opportunity with other Veterans or Veteran groups you're a part of? If so, I can send you an email with a little blurb so you can easily connect folks to our team.

Thank you so much again, and enjoy the rest of your day. 
