
# Study: Spanish Translated Content Discovery Research - Desktop, 05/16/2019, P8

Lindsay

- Veteran

- 35-44

- Female

- Prefer not to answer

- Navy

- IA

- 

# Conversation Guide Spanish Translated Content Discovery Research

## Moderator logistics

*Log out of personal Google account. Sign into Perigean's meeting link using their Google account: 

*Here is the link:  [SEE ZOOM LINK IN INVITATION]

*Use [#feedback-backchannel](https://dsva.slack.com/messages/C40B45NJK/details/) in Slack for real-time feedback from observers.*

*Before the session, send out the [observer instructions](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/blob/master/platform/research/during-research/howto-observer-instructions.md) to your observers (Slackbot will do this for you if you type "observer instructions" into #feedback-backchannel).*

*In the Attendees section, make sure everyone except the participant is on mute*.

*In the Audio section, click the drop-down arrow and make sure "Play Entry/Exit Chimes" is unchecked*.

*Check your screensharing setup:* Be sure to close extraneous windows as needed.

**Set-up screen sharing (verify participant is using desktop version): 
Please click Share in your Zoom, to make sure you're able to do that with us today. 

If user is not able to screen share, verify that they are using the desktop application, not the browser. User may need to exit and re-join. Tell them to run and download the application when prompted, instead of clicking on the 'browser' option. 

*When the participant is ready, begin the session with the following intro:*


## Intro (5 minutes)

Thanks for joining us today! My name is  [CAROLA] and I also have some colleagues on the line observing and taking notes. Today we're going to talk about the benefit information that's offered in Spanish on the VA.gov website. 

Before we start, I want to mention a few things:

- **This entire session should take about 45 minutes** I want to be sure not to keep you much longer, so I may occasionally prompt you with the next question or topic.
- **In this session, we want to hear your honest opinions.** So please talk out loud as you have thoughts about each task. We are not testing your ability. We just want to improve the website to better meet Veteran's needs. I will not be offended by any opinions you express, and I welcome your feedback.
- **If for any reason and at any time you want to stop the session, please let me know.** You will not be penalized in any way if we need to stop.
- **Are you comfortable if I record my screen and audio as we talk today?** We use the recordings to confirm that we have captured your opinions accurately.

Nextt, I'm going to send you a link to the VA webiste in the chat window. https://www.va.gov
Please go there now, and we'll start recording our session.
 

*Start recording.*

## Warm-Up Questions (10 minutes)

- Would you consider yourself a Veteran, a family member of a Veteran, or a caregiver for a Veteran
> Veteran and a family member of veteran. My husband. 

- How would you describe your comfort level in English, for speaking and for reading? 
> [in spanish] [ she speaks in spanish] husband is not bilingual but can say please give me a beer in english [in spanish] 


  - Are there certain kinds of information you prefer to get in Spanish vs. English? 
> I've never needed to [look for info in spanish]. When I was in Ecuador obviously everything was in Spanish.

  - Tell me about a situation where you wished there was a Spanish language version. 

- What kinds of information do you typically look online for in Spanish vs. English? 
> 

  - Tell me more about that.
  - Are certain formats more helpful (for example, website vs. downloadable PDFs vs. in-person help at a regional office)?
  
  

- How do you usually get information about VA benefits and services?
 
  - For yourself or for someone else?
  > 

- Have you ever visited a VA website?
> yes, i mainly go through MHV, but i have looked at info on this site when I've been in contact with other veterans when they have questions. so i'll look things up on this site and then send them links. 



  - What were you trying to do?
  
  
  - Tell me about that experience.
  
  
  - What would you expect to find on VA.gov? 
    - In Spanish?
    >  
    
    - What type of benefit information would be most helpful to have in Spanish?
    > 

  

[FIRST TASK SKIPPED - INVISION ISSUE]




## Second Task:  Find VA pension benefits information  (10 minutes)

For the next activity, imagine you're interested in learning about pension benefits for Veterans or for a Veteran's spouse or child.

Can you see the chat window or icon? I am sending you a link, please click on it. 

*Send link: https://projects.invisionapp.com/share/DCRWYHDNVPM#/screens 


Tell me how you would get started from here. 

> 


**(If they did not notice the Spanish link:) Please click on the link to see this page in Spanish.**

Tell me what you think here. 

>  [she clicks on link] i'm also on the PVA facebook page and when ppl write in I offer them suggestions. 
> no, but i don't know if there's a spearate facebook page [for spanish speakers]. 


What would you expect when you click on one of these links? 

> [she clicks on spanish link] 
> the left did not change language, the fast navigation window. i link that the link right here it's helpful when you have links in the text. 
> just looking through if you're qualified there's a lot of dates in here which even speaking english i find those confusing - 1/hve to think about when did i actually serve and 2/go through and figure out the month and day. but it is easy to read this. 
> i like the 2 ways you can see if you qualify. i'm assuming it's Q/A and then it'll come back with an answer yes or no. 
> that would be - ppl are always looking for the easiest way to get information - yes or no or you enter in your data and the computer comes back with yes or sorry no. please see a va respresentative kind of thing. bc this is for the indiv who is just looking for info but they can't get into see a VSO or looking for a friend or relative and whatever reason can't talk to a live person, which is eventually what you have to do when you're turning everything in. 
> i did it old school, by paper. when i applied initially to be service connected it was all paper. then i went through where i went to college - the retraining - i did that all through computer. it was easy but there was so much info out there that it made it almost difficult bc it didn't apply to my situation. but it was out there, so i was reading it. 


**(If they did not go to the How to Apply page:) Please go to the How to Apply (pension) page.** 
https://projects.invisionapp.com/share/DCRWYHDNVPM#/screens/362213464


(If they did not notice the Spanish link:) Please click on the link to see this page in Spanish. 


Tell me what you think here. 

> Right here. This one you can learn how to apply. 

[clicks how to apply in left nav] yes, i think 'how do i prepare' is critical bc so many ppl start out and then oh i don't have this info and i don't have this info. and once you've started online, it's difficult. 
> [goes to spanish page] the required info - that's also very very helpful to say this is what you have to have before you start...
> maybe having required in bold might be helpful. if you're skimming it it doesn't stand out that those 3 are absolutely required. 
> [scrolls] i like you have the different options. 

**(If they did not go to the survivors pension page:) Please go to the page about pension benefits for surviving spouses and children.** 
https://projects.invisionapp.com/share/DCRWYHDNVPM#/screens/362213466

Tell me what you think here. 

> [clicks link ] okay. what does this mean? maybe like an asterisk? oh! oh, yeah. [laughs] bc i don't normally look at spanish, then that would be completely normal. the fact that it was in bold and i didn't recognize it as the "or" is my spanish limitation. 
> yes [in english] that comma or even a semicolon helps
> yeah i think that it looks good i can follow it. it makes sense, follows the same format as the eligibility. it has the basic info and then this thing, you can do it by mail, in person, get help, and how long it would take, and more information. so mimking the layout is good. 
> i like how there's space on either side of the text. i was reading... i thought it was a military site and all the text was crowded over to the side of the screen and it was really hard to read. ppl are still very used to books and having the light side on either side of the paragraphs. 
> having the blue highlight the information is also a good.. and all of this information is linked together. that's my impression. 
> here i would highlight or put the names of the wars in bold, so they stand out. i think that helps hey i fought in the second world war and those are the dates. but oh i actually served before this... help you find information. 
> i'm the one who helped him because i got out before him. a lot of the stuff that he would be able to capitalize on he doesn't want or doesn't want to put in the time or effort. he just wants to be left alone. -- he does a lot fo research when he needs to look something up. 

> he doesn't look up any va information. i'm his source. 




## Follow-up Questions (5 minutes)

- What did you notice in general about the pages that you saw today? 
> 

- Did you find anything particularly helpful or unhelpful? 

> 

- Do you have any other thoughts you would like to share? 

>  

- Or questions?

>  not that i can think of at this point. 

## Thank-You and Closing  (5 minutes)

We really appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us today. Your feedback is so helpful to us as we continue to work on the site and make sure it really works for all Veterans.

As a thank you for your participation, we'd like to offer you a $50 thank-you gift. 

Is it ok for our contractor Perigean to send that gift to the same email we used to communicate with you about scheduling this session? 

- **[If no:] **Ok, we'll follow up with an email after this session to get the right email from you in writing.

Lastly, would you like to share this feedback opportunity with other Veterans or Veteran groups you're a part of? If so, I can send you an email with a little blurb so you can easily connect folks to our team.

Thank you so much again, and enjoy the rest of your day. 
