* File came from Dane Cornelius at HEC analytics, via Serita Rogers (and Leroy Garcia). It does not seem that this was difficult for Dane to pull.
* Please be very careful with the caveats documented in the file, which fall into two categories:
* __The different categories do not map perfectly to different modalities of application submission__
  * These figures record different application types by _how they got to the Enrollment System (ESR)_. How they got to the ESR usually, but not always, maps to how they were submitted.
  * __VOA Event: Most digital applications__. This is an application coming in from vets.gov. However, prior to vets.gov, some digital applications did not come in via VOA events; rather, the digital application made its way to a VAMC, and into one of the other columns. So, VOA Events understates digital applications before vets.gov.
  * __VistA transmission: Most VAMC in-person applications.__ This is an application coming from staff using VistA, which is exclusively staff at VAMCs. This means this column contains _mostly_ and _most_ Veterans who apply in person at VAMCs. However, (a) it will also include some pre-vets.gov digital applications for the reasons noted above, and (b) some VAMC staff use ESR rather than VistA, so that some in-person VAMC applications will end up in Column 1 instead.
  * __ES User: Most phone and mail applications.__ This is an application coming from staff using the ESR - mainly staff at the HEC who field mail and phone applications. However, a small number of VAMC staff, as noted above use ESR rather than VistA, and their numbers will be here. Additionally, a small number of mail and phone applications may, for esoteric reasons, be routed to VAMCs, so those applications could show up in the VistA column.
* __Dane flagged that several months are known to have bad data, that should be disregarded.__ These are noted in-line on the spreadsheet, and the issues roll up into the annual numbers as well.

Data: https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/blob/master/products/health-care/application/hca-1.0/product/measurement/enrollment-records-by-source-cy2015-to-aug2018.xlsx
