# P10 Notes - My VA Payment Information and Onsite Notifications
1/13/22
*As part of the scheduling for this session, we asked if you had either received payments from VA or incurred education, compensation, or pension debt. Can you tell me how you got info from VA about updates on those payments or debts?* 

First I would say compensation because it is through disability compensation through direct deposit, updates always came through an email. Up until 2019 when I got covid in the education assistance program. And they had my set up the same way. As along as I was enrolled in my classes. I was in class 2-3 times a week and set up the payment to come once a month. At the end of the session they verify the grades and let you know if you can go on. 

The next would be travel and expense. I live in northern VA and have to travel to DC which is 25-27 miles and that was different. They used to have it where it would be a kiosk within the facility. Now you have to create an online account and go through there. When you create it they have the calendar dates of the appointment and most of the time it is already setup that you were there. You click it and you go there. All of mine was from my home address so it was easy. I think that has gotten a whole lot better, that has improved, when I first started the account it took a long time for payment to come through, and then they caught up with everything right before the new year.  My phone was pinging pinging pinging.

*Oh, it sounds like you get updates on your phone then?*

Yes, I use USAA. So updates come through USAA and they tell me when I have a payment. I can’t remember if I got something from the VA but USAA tells me. 

*What information about your payments  is included?* 
The amount and when you were seen face to face or virtual. They give you the dates that you were seen for and will be compensated. 

*Was that helpful? Was anything missing?* 

Definitely. That’s how I go in there and put in my dates for compensation and I can see they were received. They’ll say received, or they will say calculation being done manually. Provides status. I knew they were working on them, once the system caught up they all came through. 


Tomorrow, I have an appointment but most of my appointments were rescheduled or cancelled because of covid in the facilities. I have an upper respiratory infection, that’s a whole other thing. Tomorrow I have to go back in to DCVA because of the Botox shots for migraines. So that’s another one I’ll have to submit.

*Let’s talk about the website - how do you use VA.gov?*

Very frequently, yes I do. I go through the website and I check the appointments to verify it. I like that. And then they also sent emails. I get emails once or twice to confirm all appointments. They will let you know what type of appointment it is like virtual or face to face. I can go on there and check my prescriptions and claims and stuff like that to. 

*Let’s go ahead and go there - go to VA.gov and I’ll ask you to show me a few things.*

/Types va.gov into google search, clicks on first result and immediately clicks on sign in/

*Is that what you normally do when you get to the site?*

Yes, first thing I do is sign in. I do this once or twice a week. I forgot about the two step verification and I normally have them text me. its simple enough for me. 

*I’d like for you to show me how you’d go about finding new information about your payments and debts:* 

/Hovers between My VA and My Health - clicks on My Health and goes to MHV/
This is it. This is where I go to look at everything Pharmacy for meds, then appointments, secure messaging I use a lot and my health reports. It helps me. I had covid 2 years ago so I had to file for disability and SS. I choose to go to the VA for all services. When they ask for something is easy to go to here and see my healthy report. 

*Ok, so this is where you would go to see information about payments you received. Can you tell me why you’d expect to see benefit and payment information here?* 

Let me see, payments, /scrolls,/ ok the payments I received are usually, oh yeah, god, let me see if I know my password, it’s a whole different thing. I go through search.

/types travel reimbursement into search and clicks first result, lands on travel pay page/

Yeah, I go through here

*Ok, great, thanks for showing that to me. You don’t need to sign in to this. How about debts, where would you look for that information?*
I have never seen anything that I had debts. I do have my own personal insurance through the DOL. I still choose  va for medical resources and they send me outside for some things. Somethings came up and the outside sources keep sending me the bill.  It didn’t come up here (va.gov) but I asked someone and they told me who to call and they were real nice and polite about it. I sent them a copy of what the outside agency was sending me and they took care of it.  So I’ve never seen any debts on here for me.

*If you had a debt, any idea where you’d find it on the site?*
No I don’t. I did read that they send out letters but I haven’t seen it. 

*Ok, now I’m going to have you navigate to My VA. Are you familiar with this page at all?* 

I can try it.  Let me check and see if I remember. Yes! I do. I use this for claims and appeals when I had to file a claim. They are working on one now and its been a few months, they asked for new information and when I initially faxed it off. It was easier for me to fax. When they wanted more information I just uploaded the few sheets. I knew how to do it here, I scanned it through my printer. 

*Ok. I’m glad you have some familairity with this. Can you talk to me about how what you see here lines up with information that is important to you?*
Right here it tells me my next appointment, here it is for 3pm. I have no unread messages and if I need a prescription I know the ones that have been ordered I received besides the one I requested today. Sometimes when it shows up it will show up on my phone that it’s been sent and provide tracking. I check my lab results on blue report to print what I need. And apply for va benefits is where I applied for disability. 

This one right here (disability compensation application in progress)- I went to fill it out and I stopped because they are already working on one. I lost hearing and have a hearing aid. This will tell me about disability compensation and education. Theres another one that will give my exact rating and let me know the dates and date rating was received. 

*Moderator confirms email address because benefit payment section is not displaying; team works to get feature working for participant.*

*So you said you have come here before, and you also go to MHV. Do you look at appointments here or my HealtheVet?* 

Since myhealthevet has been there for so long. That is one of my first go to. But, when I talked to you last time, I downloaded the va apps so I use those too. When I want to see the whole picture, I go right on to my HealtheVet. Everything is there for me.

*If you refresh the page now, that feature should be turned on for you. Yes! It’s there.*

Oh, wow, I’ve never seen that before.

*Right, it’s a new feature. If you came here and wanted to see information about your compensation payments, talk to me about how this would or would not meet your needs.*

 It would benefit me a lot, because I am so used to knowing - I know about when it was going to be deposited in my account. But one time there was a change in amount, and they also started asking the amount for ssi I couldn’t give it to you. So, this tells me what is deposited in my account, but I’d have to look here. 

Theres another thing, because I have my life insurance is taken out of mine so actually this tells me how much has been deposited, but I know this isnt the full comp I receive, because it doesn’t include my life insurance (deduction). I would need to go back to USAA to see how much was deposited back then. What about 3-4 months from now? So, this would help with that. 

*I see here your last payment was December 30, 2021. If it was December 30, 2020. Would it still be helpful for you to see something that old on this page?*

It would for me. Because everything that I’m going through now, they ask for dates. So it would help me to see that here.

*If you wanted to update your bank information that the VA has on file.* *Talk me through how you would you do that:* 

/clicks manage direct deposit link/ /scrolls/ Ok. You’d have to go through id.me. I have had to change my address so I know I have done that before. I forgot that I needed to have this. 

*Ok, you don’t need to do this but I wanted to be sure that information was clear to you.*

*Let’s talk through this payment information section. What information is the most important for you to see here?* 

For me it would be my deposit so I know its there. I haven’t had a problem where I’ve never received it, but at least I would know its there. How my banking works is that they deposit it a day or so early, so I know it would be there but if I wanted to know the exact amount prior to that, I probably could come here. 

*Is there anything missing or confusing?*
If there was a debt, I’d like to know about it. /clicks view payment history and scrolls down/ Oh yeah, you just scroll down and it’s all there.  
Theres payments returned in 2011 I don’t even remember that. (reading page) I did change my address but I think I did it on my HealtheVet. This gives you a lot of options. If I have debt I would like to see it here. 

*Let me how you a prototype - (sends link into a chat and gives prompt). What’s different about this version of my VA than the last one you saw?*

/Scrolls down/ It looks about the same. It hasmy VA, it has claims/appeals where you can manage them, healthcare. One the right hand side it has this….oh, I didn’t see travel reimbursement on the last version. I like that. 

Why is that link there vs anywhere else on the page?

Because it is under healthcare. If you get it like I do from the facility. Requesting travel reimbursement like the other one you can go through and click it. it would be good if you didn’t need to go through access va.  I like that.

I see it still has get your VA medical records and test results.  I like having the, if that would be an option, and you could go right there /hovering over travel link/ instead of another site, I like that.

/scrolls down/

Benefit payments and debts, manage your direct deposit. You have 3 outstanding debts. Yeah. OK. That would be great because it lets you know that it was deposited but also lets you know that you do have a debt you need to manage. It would all be listed under the same You wouldn’t need to journey through different links to get that one little piece of  information when everything is really related right here. When I was in school, they had me started with 4 classes and then told me I didn’t need one, so I had to drop that one. And then they came back - they sent me a letter - to tell me me I was over paid. None of this was online. They told me I received so much deducted from my deposit each month. So that would’ve been nice to have track of that at that time.  

*If you had a copay, where would you expect to see that on this page*

I have never had it. Expectations if there were a copay due I would like to see it under payments and debts. not under healthcare, because I don’t want to get them mixed up. When I see benefit payments and debts, that’s all about my financial things. Right there.

*If you clicked on manage your VA debt, and looked at your debt, and came back to this page without paying it, what would you expect to happen to this alert?*

I think it all should be like a tracking, if that’s right, if I have an alert that I’ve seen it. And they would know I am aware of this debt. Because every time I sign in on - yeah, it tracks your time, so you know that I’m aware of it. But, for the most part, like most people, where would you go to find all this? Most people. They wouldn’t know. So here they would know there is a debt, and there could be options.

*Would you expect the alert to still be on the page?*

Yeah, because it’s still outstanding.

*Does it matter to you how many debts there are or only that there IS a debt?*

/Laughs./ Nobody likes to see that…but yeah I would like to know how many. I would want to see a number there. Especially, because if it didn’t, and it says you have an outstanding debt, and there was a new debt, I wouldn’t know.

*Oh ok, if you scroll to the top of the screen, there’s another similar alert /guides participant to alert/ So this one is a little difference than the other one. Can you talk to me about the difference between the two?*

Yeah, this one is like an alert - if I didn’t scroll all the way down, it’s an alert to tell me that I have a new debt. That would be great, as long as it’s not in within the specific area, like it’s not mixed in with my claims, appeals, or healthcare, that would be great for any of them. I like that one.

*How would you think you could make that alert go away?*

Just click on this X right there.

*Would you want to do that?*

If I have already received the notification and read it, I’m done with it. I don’t need to see it.

*Even if you haven’t paid it?*

Yeah, because it would still show up down here /scrolls down to benefit payment section/.

*end of session*
