# P11 Notes - My VA Payment Information and Onsite Notifications Research
1/13/22
*Before we look at the website, I’d like to get a little background information from you:* 

I have a hearing disability and have hearing aids. I may not hear some things correct and ask you to repeat things. I am paying attention though. 

*As part of the scheduling for this session, we asked if you had either received payments from VA or incurred education, compensation, or pension debt. Can you tell me how you got info from VA about updates on those payments or debts?* 

Any debt I have or payments, I get right through the website. I receive compensation directly into my bank account electronically. I pay electronically through va.gov, and I communicate to my two offices that I deal with through the myhealthevet channel. 

How do you know when a debt payment is due?
*They send a USPS bill.* 

Deposit payments, how do you know that’s coming? 

I know it’s coming when I observe my bank account and I see that deposit made. I know the code words and all that so I know the payment was made for disability on a monthly basis. Then mileage, when I go to either facility they pay mileage, I know when that comes I see that as a deposit as well. 

*What information about your payments and debts is included? Was that helpful? Was anything missing?*  

I got one right here. It’s a computer run out statement. It shows the account summery description, and I can mail it back with payment. They answer questions on the back about my rights. That’s the degree of what’s on the bills for payments for my prescription plans that I’ve ever received. they are the same format. Nothing is missing, I see the dates of the entries, the description what it is, pills are. I can see everything. I don’t have any questions of what it is or when it is, I see the balance due and where or how to send it through va.gov. It’s very well done. It makes it real easy.
 
*Do you have other non-healthcare debt with VA?* 

I have prescriptions that I am billed for, like when I had an eye infection.

*Let’s talk about the website - how do you use VA.gov?*  

I deal with two sites, va.gov and my HealtheVet. The va.gov is pretty simple you get into it and it says pay a bill then you click that and feed in your information and it finds the bill. They look for an account number and I put that in and the bill pops up and amount due. I made a payment from my bank and then its over. 

*Do you use Va.gov for anything other than healthcare?* 

No not really. I have used VA.gov for, you know I talk to veterans, and they have a lot of questions. I am a writer and normally I write about the va. I hear the horror stories but I understand its not always the VA where the problem is. I talk to a lot of folks and I use va.gov to look up information. 

*OK. Well that’s good to know. Let’s go ahead and go to VA.gov, and I’ll have you go to VA.gov and share your screen. /Gives participant instructions to screen share/*

*I’d like for you to show me how you’d go about finding new information about any payments and debts.* 

If I were going to do this, I would find probably right in the areas that I use /scrolling up and down the page/are right here about be. Someone bitching about their disability claim, I can click the claims or look at my own payment history (/in disability box on homepage)/. Often times records, the id card. How do you get an id card. I give advice about the va office. this stuff on member benefits, everything is pretty much right there.

*If you wanted to look at your own information about money that you owe VA, where would you find that out?*

I can honestly say that I except for payment history, I have never looked up what I owe because I pay promptly and I’ve never been concerned about that. 

*Pay online or in the mail:* 

online. 

*Thank you. Now I’ll ask you to navigate to My VA. Are you familiar with that?*

No I don’t think so.

*Talk to me about how this lines up with information that is important to you*: 

Well appointments is important, the messaging part, the prescription part is important. I haven’t had lab tests at the va and I guess medical records would be important but I haven’t had the need. I do attend another hospital but the records go back and forth between the two without any problems, and there’s no big deal. 

I see the first three (links) I would and do use. But I go to them in a different manner. If I write a message it is done through myhealthevet. 

/scrolls down/ It is interesting they tell me there’s a deposit that was made, I was not aware of this.

*Hmm. So this is new information to you, what you’re seeing here?*
 
/Scrolls down/ I probably would be interested in disability compensation relative to the first of the year and what the new numbers will be. Education and training, I would use to provide advice to other veterans.

*Let’s stay here in the benefit payments and debts section, I want to get your feedback on that. Looking at that, I see you noted they made a deposit there. If you wanted to see all the payments, where would you see that from here?* 
 Um. /scrolls down/ View all payment history. 

*And if you wanted to update your bank information, talk to me about how you’d do that from here?*
Hmm. /scrolls around/ I am not sure. /scrolls down and continues to look through the page, and site footer/ The most questions I get are on disability. 

*Ok, if that’s not clear, that’s fine. Looking at the benefit payments and debts portion of the page, what is the most important part to you?*
 It would be I guess if I was living on the edge I would want to know that they made the deposit but I don’t live on the edge so. If they didn’t make it {the deposit}, they wouldn’t be knocking on my door to take my house away you know.

*Does it matter to see this financial information in your VA account?*

I would like to see it yeah. Anything is helpful, information like that is important. It is helpful. 

*I’m interested in your thoughts about timing for financial information. After a payment is made to you or a debt is added, how far back do you expect to see that information on this page?  For example if the last payment was in Dec 2020, would you want to see it?*

I think it would be pretty old news. If I needed the information I would be looking pretty tight around dec 30th. 

*I see you hovering over the payment history link. Tell me about that.*

/clicks on the link/ I can tell you I never looked at it. Okay its good. This is helpful information because I know where its going and the bank ends up with it. if it didn’t come in the bank, it could have went to someone else’s account. So that would be helpful. That does happen but not from the VA. inputting gets sloppy and sometimes money goes elsewhere. This is helpful information, yes.

*Moderator sends link in chat to prototype and gives prompt to review onsite notifications.*

*participant is able to see their screen but isn’t sharing; session proceeds with participant audio but we can’t see their screen*

*What I’m interested in getting your feedback on are these call-outs or alerts on the page. Had you noticed those?*

What alerts? Oh. Oh I see. Now I see them.

*YOu hadn’t seen them before?*

No, no I hadn’t. I see them now because it did jump out at me, you have 2 unread messages. 3 outstanding debts. Stuff that I would most definitely look at.

*What do you think about the level of information in those alerts?*

Pretty important classifications. Messaging, debt, yeah. You know, of I think of all the important stuff, probably the most important things are messaging and money. The most personal impact. I have no complaints about any messaging I get back as an answer from the VA, but I do hear from others that it takes them 3 days to a answer an email. I say yeah, because they’re busy. It’s good for them to be able to go on and see that you have 2 unread messages or whatever it is. 

*If you were to click on the manage your VA debt link in either alert what would you expect to happen?*

I would expect, if I had to manage my debt, I would expect to see what I have to manage, and what the problem is. Who I owe.

*Would you expect that on this page or a different page?*

This page is good. If you owe the money, you should be able to asked to be manage your debt on many pages that you visit. Whatever subject you’re going after, it’s a great reminder for people who get on the VA net, here’s another reminder. I guess they’re on to me. /laughs/

*What do you think about having 2 similar reminders on the same page?*
I don’t see any problem with that at all. I also like unread messages. It’s stuff that people tend to overlook. And you’ve got to constantly reminder them. Every time I open this up I see talk to your veteran’s crisis line. And it’s a great reminder, and it should be everywhere. And it’s not bad for people to read about managing their debt or messages.

*If you go to the alert at the bottom of the page, and you see that alert that says 3 outstanding debts. Does it matter to see the number of debts?*

I think it should be the way it is. What the debt is, and uh, you’ve got the debtor, their attention. Eventually, if this stuff isn’t paid, somebody’s not going to get a service in return, and it would be helpful if they knew what the management problem was. Just like the unread messages. Tap that and I’m going to see what they are.

*If you clicked on the manage your debt from this alert, and viewed your debt, and came back here, what would happen tot he alert?*

As long as the debt was outstanding, the alert would be there.

*Would that happen with the alert at the top?*

No. I think alerting is good practice. That’s an even better placement.

*Why do you think that’s even better?*

Important things go up at the top. And in red. And I Know we don’t want to offend anybody but if people owe me money, I let them know. And I don’t care if I offend them.  

*Where would you expect to find link to get travel pay on this page?*

Uh, I think manage your VA debt is in the right position at the top. And unread messages is very important /Participant seems to be fatigued. Moderator repeats question/

I’d put it somewhere it’s easily seen, which would be this page here. Because it’s got good alerts. 

/Moderator clarifies question/

I would include a section in claims because it is a claim. Or have a travel section.

*Ok, so not under healthcare or benefit payments and debts.*

Correct.
