# P12 Notes - My VA Payment Information and Onsite Notifications Research
*Before we look at the website, I’d like to get a little background information from you. As part of the scheduling for this session, we asked if you had either received payments from VA or incurred education, compensation, or pension debt. Can you tell me how you got info from VA about updates on those payments or debts?* 

Well I don’t get that much information; I get the disability payment and get that once a month by direct deposit. To be frank I rarely login to va unless I get a newsletter stating that it may be interesting to use the va facility then I send it to them to read. 

*Do you have any debts:*
 
no. 

*What information about your payments is helpful? Anything missing?* 
Just the amount, actually to be frank that comes and I don’t look at it. my wife looks at it quite a few times a year. 

*Now I’m going to ask you to go va.gov, and have you share your screen. I’d like for you to show me how you’d go about finding new information about your payments and debts:* 

Under the square that says disability (on homepage). 

*You did that quickly Have you done it before?* 

No. To tell you the truth the last time I did this was the last time I did an interview with you folks a few years ago. This is a beginning for me so you’ll get some good information if its working well. 

*From here, how would you go about finding new information about your debts?*

(reading page) View payment history, I think that is the right place. Don’t you?

*Now I’ll ask you to navigate to My VA.  Have you been to my va*: 

I may have but like I said I don’t do this that often.

*If you were going to look at personal information about you on VA.gov, where would you go?* 

Under records. 

Sign in: Did not remember which account type they have. Tried ID.me. ID.me used to sign in. 

*(MyVA)Talk to me about how this lines up with information that is important to you:*

Okay well if I had a debt I would click on manage your new va debt.

*What would you expect to happen if you clicked on that?* 

if I had a debt I would open that and tell me what the debt is. Theres another link there as well that says manage debt and would tell me how to adjudicate the debt. 

*Here or somewhere else:* 

I would want it here but knowing the government it would give me a dozen other links. 

*Other things seen:* 
compensation appeal. If I needed to do that click there, I have 2 unread messages, probably an appointment scheduled, there it is. Compensation was deposited, benefit payments and debts, that’s pretty outstanding if I had payments. To manage direct deposit there’s a link. to apply for benefits going down the page. This is pretty straight forward. 

Oh boy, wanna hear a good story. I decided to take some college courses a few years ago (15 years ago) I went through the process and doing the paperwork, getting transcription and I went into the office and sat down with the VA rep. She looked at me and was good job Col but you’re over 65 and can go free here. 

*What would you say is most important to you?*
If I had debt, I’d want to see what it was and how to manage it. And if I had a deposit coming, I’d want to know that too.

*Anything missing?*

Not that jumps into my mind right now. I guess with it being tax season I would be concerned for the statement for taxes. 

*Do you normally get an annual tax statement from VA?*
Yes

*I’m interested in your thoughts about timing for financial information. Let me give you an example - say you used your education benefits ago and the last payment you received was a year ago. Would you still want to see that?* 

Uh. You know I guess if it were a problem that would be important but I would think concerning payments annually is what you are concerned about for tax purposes. If you go back, I don’t think I need to know more than 2 years back. 
	
*Any way to see further back from here:* 

I would presume that payment history. But maybe, that’s MY payment history. But, I am not sure if that’s me paying the VA for my debt or if that’s the VA paying me. That’s not clear to me. 

Let me ask you a question - what is VA debt?

*Moderator explains how people can have debt with VA.*

Looking at all of the information on the page, what is the most important information? 

I would say the amount being deposited. If you were living in the situation where you are essentially living month to month on the income that would be pretty important. I guess it stays the same each month, for me it does. I guess if you were getting money you’d want to know if it were changing or not. 

*Now let’s look specifically at the alerts on the page, which you mentioned right when you landed on the page.  What are your thoughts on how they’re placed within the page?* 

I think they are placed well. You want it right up at the top. Actually, /scrolling/ oh I see. If its at the top it’s the first thing that grabs your eyes and attention. You see the  debt and ask what its about. Then under healthcare its unread messages, what is that all about. Maybe I’m just signing in to see my next appointment but then I see that. 

Then I am looking at the payment amount there’s a triangle and ! with 3 outstanding debts. 

The only way I think it could be improved is having all the alerts up at the top, but it could be confusing. If you are going to see the payment then see 3-4 you could get sidetracked. I like how it is. It is straight forward.
 
*Two similar ones on the page:* 

It is important information so over doing it isn’t going to hurt. You have the link twice .I got it. 

*So that doesn’t seem to bother you.*

No.

*Is it important to know how any debts are outstanding?*
I’d like to have all the information up front there. 3 outstanding debts - you want to know how many you have. That’s good.

*Anything else you can do with the alerts?*
Well, you can close them. /Laughs/  The first one, you have a new debt, manage your VA debt, there’s an X there, you can close it. Probably not a good idea to have that there. You know, because somebody could accidentally do that.  And if you’re like me, you’d go Damn. What’d I do?

*How to get back to it:* 

Interestingly you have it down here as well. 

*If you refreshed the page and or came back later, would you expect it to be back up at the top?*

Yes.  

*Say you clicked on ‘Manage your VA debt’, viewed your debt, and then came back to this page, what would happen to this notification?* I’m sure it’d still be here, because I didn’t take care of it.

*If you paid it, what would happen?*
It should go away. And if I clicked on the link, and took care of the debt, then it would say “this information should be updated within 48 hours or whatever the timeline is, and we will send you an email confirmation that your debt has been reduced”

*And you’d expect that here on this page, to see that you took an action?*

That would be nice.

*Do you have any experience with VA travel pay?*

Yes, /shares travel pay story/

*If you were going to look for that form from this page, where would you look for that?*

/Scrolls around/ Probably under claims and appeals. Because you’re putting in a claim for travel. But it obviously would go under healthcare because it’s for an appointment. But claims and appointments would really be helpful.

*Since you haven’t used My VA before, can you summarize what is the purpose of My VA?*

The purpose of the page is to help, to tell me what I need to know and provide me with more information.

*Anything confusing?*
Not that I see. I see a lot of webpages on a daily basis and this one is actually pretty good.

*Anything missing?*
The only thing I would say is up here the crisis line, that should probably be moved into, it should be bigger, and moved [into the name tag area].
