# # P13 Notes - My VA Payment Information and Onsite Notifications Research
1/14/22

*As part of the scheduling for this session, we asked if you had either received payments from VA or incurred education, compensation, or pension debt. Can you tell me how you got info from VA about updates on those payments or debts?* 
I receive emails, and I receive a letter in the mail. 

*What information about your payments and debts is included? Was that helpful? Was anything missing?* 
From what I have seen it is what I have been paid out so far. When I was using my education benefits. I would get notices saying that this was used during this time period. I remember getting those letters. I was in school for the last serval years. 

Yes it was helpful. It was helpful because it let me know if my actual bills were being paid for tuition, and what was coming out and what I had left in the system for as far as post 9/11 or voc rehab. 

Nothing was missing. 


*How do you manage your VA finances?* 

I manage it online now. 

*Let’s talk about the website - how do you use VA.gov?* 

I use va.gov to look and see what is going on as far as my statuses and my benefits. Its not often, but the main areas that I do use as far as the VA is used, I go to myhealthevet quite often and and eBenefits quite often. I go between the two.

*Now I’m going to ask you to go va.gov, and have you share your screen. I’d like for you to show me how you’d go about finding new information about your payments and debts that you owe*. 

Okay, let me sign in first. 

Okay so as far as my disability or education I can go to payment history, /clicks link under education/.   Clicks the green button for payment history and it shows the payments I have received.

*From here, how would you go about finding new information about your debts?* 

Let me look, go back to home. /scrolls down on home page/ Money I may owe? That’s a good question, I don’t know where it would be. I am looking now; I have never had that happen. I would love to know where to look. 

*Thank you. Now I’ll ask you to navigate to My VA. Have you used that before?*

I’ve heard of it. /Opens search/: I was going to type in myVA. Then I would click myVA (from search results page)

*Talk to me about how this lines up with information that is important to you:* okay well I like that it has my next appointment there, no messages form my doctor. I message my doctor back and forth. So far I don’t see anything that makes my eyebrow come up where I need to look at it. 

*Moderator switches to prototype, feature isn’t showing up.*

*So*

That’s cool, it lets me know that I have a new debt. 

*Tell me more about that. It sounds like you noticed that right away.*

Yeah, as soon as I opened it, it tells me the debt. The warning told me to pay attention.  Can I open it?

*Tell me more about what it means to open it*

That would mean that I owe someone money and debts not a good thing. I would want to open it to see what I owe and what its for. I almost did it actually. 

*And if you, and so opening it, describe to me what you would do to open it?*
Press the hyper link to manage va debt. I think everyone knows that if its blue thing underlined like that, it can be pressed. Older veterans that aren’t tech savvy so it could be harder but I am sure they have younger people to assist. Like if I can click that to go to profile I should be able to click this to see whatever it is about managing my debt. 

*And if you could scroll further down the page, what do you see about what is important to you?*

Looking at this, it’s saying that the claim for comp was submitted June 7th, it’s very detailed. I would guess if I opened it up it would tell me who had received it. 

Then I have 2 unread messages from either my team or someone else. And I might need to open it. /scrolls up to see date/ I have an appointment, this is very informative.  I love this view and schedule appointment. Refill my prescriptions. I like this. /scrolls down/

Wow wow look at that, reads payments and debts that wasn’t on the page before. It wasn’t on there (when I was logged in).

*Yeah, so what do you think of that? I heard you saw wow wow*
 
I think that’s pretty cool. It lets me know, no one wants to owe either for compensation or education. No one wants to owe anyone to anything, especially the government because they will come back and take what they gave us. That will be an eye opener. 

Then this (payment card) tells me that they deposited 1561, say my normal payment is 800 something. So if I see an extra $700, I would go look at see what happened.

*How would you see what happened?*
 It says right here I can view my payment history but up here I remember /scrolls up/, seeing something earlier that I was able to see my compensation. I would try to see the new notes. 

I have seen the notes on ebenfits that something has been reviewed or for example, if one of my kids come off of my pay because they reached a certain age limit. I have received emails that such and such have been taken off.  But at the same time, I can go here as well or ebenefits and it would link to eBenefits and give me a breakdown of the letter to look at it here. 

*Expect view payments link to take you to ebenefits:* 

yes

If you wanted to update your bank information that the VA has on file. Talk me through how you would you do that:  

Sure, Manage the direct deposit. That’s pretty good. That’s really helpful.

*What is most important for you, out of all of this information?*

Honestly it’s easily accessible. Anyone should be able to come in here. It’s like a one stop shop. You can come in here and check what VA has as far as profile information, your claims. But you have notifications that say  you owe money, you can also see what appointments you have coming up. Instead of having to go to different websites and different links, you should be able to go to it from here. It’s pretty cool.

*You mentioned 60-90 days for appts, I’m interested to get your thoughts about timing for financial information. How long would you expect to see a payment on this page? Gives edu example*

No, because if I hadn’t used it in so long, I wouldn’t be thinking about it.  In this case here say for example that its showing the most recent within 30-60 days would be good. But it would have to be - you would need to be honest with yourself. No one wants to pay back the government. 

*I want to focus a little more on those alerts on the page. What do you think would happen if you click on manage your VA debt. What would happen to the alert if you came back here?*

I think it would take me to al ink that says what I owe, the date I owe, and maybe contact information because I don’t understand why I owe that money. It would take me to al ink or a site so I could see exactly what that is.

*And then if you did that and came back, what would happen to the alert?*

I think it should still be there until it’s closed out. For example, if I did owe some money, until I’ve cleared that up and it’s paid in full, it should stay on there.

*Talk to me about the difference between these two alerts.*

This one is in a good spot (alert up the top); it lets you know you have an alert. Then when you scroll down to it,  you can actually see under benefits and payments that you have 3 debts. That is very informative. 


*Notice the exit:* 
yes, if you hit, it would be closed out. 

*So now, if you  came back here another time and your debt hadn’t been paid*

It would pop back up. 

*What are your thoughts about having two alerts that are pretty closely related to the page?*

It is a reminder for me that I’ve got something to be taken care of. I scroll it down, and I see them right here - this is letting me know that there are two sections that need my attention. I don’t think there’s a problem with that.

*Do you need to know the number of debts or just that there is a debt*

I think it’s important to know because up top, it just tells me I have a debt but you go down here and then see I have 3 debts. Oh man. 3 debts? Let me go in there and see what’s going on.  As I manage the debt, and see I have 3 and pay one. I would expect it to say I have 2 or 1 remaining. That’s what I would expect.

*Are you familiar with VA travel pay?*

I’ve heard of it, never used it.

*Moderator explains travel pay*

I know exactly what you mean.

*Show me where you’d look for that on this page.*

/Scrolls/ Hmm, ok. Let me take a look. Right here under health care - request travel reimbursement. That’s in a great spot, because you went to a doctors appointment.

*What about co-pay statements?*
/Scrolls/ Hmm. I’m looking. I don’t see it but I would expect it to be under health care. Because that’s where I’m dealing with all that.

*Have you ever used this dashboard before?*

No, this was actually pretty good.  Even just coming in here and playing with it in depth I’m going to have come here and start looking. 

*What do you think about it?*

One stop shop. I can check everything here. First of all, the part up top that it says my disability rating, and I guess if I hit that link it would tell me more about my rating, my service connection. If I need to update my profile, if I Move. It’s a one stop shop, it handles everything. I need to look at this more instead of always going to MHV.

*Anything missing from the page that would be helpful?*

What happened to the…/scrolling/ I don’t see it. Yes, you have the education and training portion right here. I see my rating, health care, claims and all that stuff like that. But I think for some, maybe an opportunity to access any education - for example when I had to inquire about how much I have left available If I wanted to transfer my post 9/11 to one of my kids. If there was a link on here for those that are still eligible, that would go in with the whole idea of one stop shop.

*Ok. Where would you expect to see that here?*

/Scrolling/ I would alphabetical but it’s not. But I’d say right here under benefits and payments, education.
