# # P15 Notes - My VA Payment Information and Onsite Notifications Research
*As part of the scheduling for this session, we asked if you had either received payments from VA or incurred education, compensation, or pension debt. Can you tell me how you got info from VA about updates on those payments or debts?* 

So I don’t have any debts, I get va disability. 

*How do you get information about the payments you receive?*
Um, they show up in my bank account like clockwork. If I have a question I know ebenefits is where I would go get detailed information. I haven’t had a need for detailed info since it has been settled. I had to submit three times. 

*How do you manage your VA finances? Online, by mail, etc.?* 
Online. 

*Let’s talk about the website - how do you use VA.gov?*
 
If I have a question about a va program for veterans. We all talk amongst together. If I hear something I go on va.gov for validity and detailed infomration. 

*Sounds like that’s a source where you’re confident you’ll find accurate information.*
Yes. For example, ifI need to find a vso for anywhere in the country. I have used that

*Do you ever log into VA.gov?*
On occcasion. My brother passed recently and he was a navy vet, I needed to talk to a vso in his area to see how to get the burial benefit. Then I ran into issues with that, I haven’t gotten it yet because the information was incorrect. The checked has my last name wrong on it twice. That is frustrating. 

Different programs like women veteran organizations, trying to find on there and just things of that nature.

*thanks for sharing that, and I’m sorry to hear about your brother.*
 They even had my Dob incorrect, the vso couldn’t see my record he needed about me. it just made it really difficult. 

*Now I’m going to ask you to go va.gov, and have you share your screen. I’d like for you to show me how you’d go about finding new information about your payments and debts*: 

So I would need to sign in but I’m looking under disability and I would click view payment history.

Signs in with DS login. Now I have to get a code by phone. 
What information is important: 

my cost of living is important here. I would do the math which is like 120 dollars more. I paid for January early but I guess that was factored in for the new year. That looks good to me, it shows I am getting paid. 
From here, how would you go about finding new information about your payments and debts? I would go back. I guess this one, manage your va debt. When it says manage va debt after natural disaster. Do that do loans after that, it alludes to getting assistance after that. I would click on it. I have Tricare, so I have wondered if I am hospitalized or something big happens. Is that under copay. Anyway this is a lot of information if I had a question. 
# Second Task: Review My VA and financial info - 8 minutes
*Task goal: Validate we have included the right content and links, the structure of the page makes sense, and users can take sufficient action on their financial updates from My VA. We also want to learn about how the participant thinks about timing of finance related notifications*.

*Thank you. Now I’ll ask you to navigate to My VA. Are you familiar with it?*
No

*Talk to me about how this lines up with information that is important to you:* 

Well my next appointment but it doesn’t say where, I would need to look at my calendar. We used to get letters in the mail with the floor and room number, we don’t get that anymore but it would be awesome if that information is here. I know they have the red shirts but they aren’t always there and sometimes you just want to go by yourself. 

*Red shirts?*
they are volunteers that can walk you to where you need to go.

*What information is important to you here?*

Get VA medical records, so I wonder if they mail them. I get those on myhealthevet where I can print them out. This is in addition about prescriptions and lab results. If you go to myhealthevet you can get the same information. 

*Where would it take you?*
I don’t know if it’s something separate or would take me to myhealthevet.

*What else do you see:* 
 So like I was thinking if I ever wanted to enroll into the disability vets program for different job skills that would be under training. /scrolling and looking at site footer/This is good information. If I had someone or knew of someone getting out I would encourage them to login to the site to see what is available to them through the va. Looking at the social media, its good because elderly people aren’t always on social media. My dad’s 81, he doesn’t do Facebook so clicking on news releases is good for an older person. Careers at va is good. 

*Notice payments and debts:* 
yes

*Say you wanted to see all of the payments that the VA had made to you, how would you do that?* 
View payment history. 

*If you wanted to update your bank information that the VA has on file. Talk me through how you would you do that:* 
Mange the direct deposit. 

*Okay great, let’s talk through this payment information section. What information is the most important for you to see here?* 

It looks great. Its fine. Its perfect. The payment is the most important. the payment amount. 

*What would you say is missing?* 
What I mentioned earlier, the location. I don’t know what that appointment is, it causes anxiety because I don’t know. It is glaringly an issue to me. I have some there but I don’t know what it’s for.

*How could you see where it is at:* 
I would try to click on the hyperlink underneath.
 
*Missing under payment area:* 
no. 

*I’m interested in your thoughts about timing for financial information. After a payment is made to you or a debt is added, how long do you expect to see that information on this page?* 

Yes, so I can keep track. If it wasn’t enough looking at a bank statement I would use this. Or for a home loan they need to see up to a year. 
	
*Detail of payments here:* 
just a basic. You know going back a year. It doesn’t have to be detailed. 

*View payment meet needs:* 
yes as long as it goes back a year.

*If you had to rank these sections in order of importance to you.*
I think it is really good. Aligns to what matters. 

*Moderator guides them to my VA prototype. Talk to me about the differences on this version of My VA and the one we saw in your account.*
Well, it has a message stating I have debt and prompts you to mange va debt, and shows it is important. Then the appeal information with the status. /scrolling down/ then it goes to healthcare, 2 unread message I assume it’s like myhealthevet when you message a doctor. 

I am an admin person I’m like so “this guy needs to be fixed”. All this stuff, come on. I was a command financial specialist in the navy. 3 outstanding debts. I’m assuming it can go to collections or taken out of his disability but wow okay. That’s letting him know there’s an issue.

*For those alerts, what are your thoughts about how they’re placed in the page?*

So, My VA. So it’s about yourself and people want to know about their appeal and what is happening with the claim so I see how it is first. An appointment okay, in this situation that the benefit and payment should go before appointment, because if he’s not paying his debts I would imagine it would affect his ability to receive care at the VA. 

*Even with that alert up at the top of the page?*

Yeah. Because it’s letting him know there’s a problem. I don’t know if he’s not getting his letters or he’s shredding them, or not returning phone calls. I don’t know. There’s something going on.

*If you clicked on manage your va debt, what would you expect?*

It would give a detailed message about how to fix it and when it needs to be done, and if its not done then what will happen. A lot of time with this stuff, it doesn’t say the consequences, so people blow it off.


 *Say you clicked on ‘Manage your VA debt’, viewed your debt, and then came back to this page, what would happen to the alerts on the page?* 

They would still be there. Maybe they would go red. Anything to deal with debt should be in red. The yellow, you have new debt - color means stuff to people,. This is a soft soothing yellow, it’s kind of chill - it doesn’t strike urgency. A bold red with black letters is more appropriate. 

*If you paid your debt, what would you expect to happen to the notification?*

It would go away. There wouldn’t be any on the page.

*What are your thoughts about having two similar alerts on the same page?*

It would be overkill.

*Can you say more about that?*

/scrolling/ Well, ok. So it has the link on the top, you have new debt. Then you go down, oh, ad then it says you have 3 outstanding debts. So maybe that should be on the top because it’s more detailed, and you wouldn’t have to have this second one. Because it is confusing to have 2 links. If I had debt, and I didn’t realize how many I had, and I clicked on that, and I’m like OK and I did whatever I had to do, and it said I have 3 outstanding debt, oh geez, what’s that. It just seems like a lot of extra work and angst for the person. And it’s confusing. They’re worded differently but they mean the same. For lack of a better term, it doesn’t look very professional and it’s just confusing.

I like it where it’s straightforward, 3 outstanding debts with a hyperlink. Instead of it kicks off with “you have debt” and I’m assuming it’s alluding to those 3 payments. You have 3 outstanding debts, do that first. Because they can’t do anything else until they pay their debt.

*Up in the top alert, had you noticed the X in the right side of the alert?*

Yes

*what do you imagine that would do if you clicked on it?*

Make it go away.

*And if you came back at a later time, what would you expect to it to do?*

Come back, because it doesn’t have a save option. So that’s not a permanent change.

*Why do you think that alert has an X and the other ones don’t?*

I don’t know. I don’t think it’s a good thing. It’s important information, it shouldn’t be something that, it’s saying OK blow it off.

*Another thing I wanted to learn about with you - do you have any experience with VA travel reimbursement?*

Yes.

*What section would you expect to find a link to submit for that?*

Uh, none of them. I would just go to search and type it in.

*If you wanted to see statements about your co-pays, past co-pays or those that are due, where would you expect to see that here?*

/Scrolling/. Mmm. I would have to do a search.

*Have you ever used My VA before?*

No

*Can you summarize what it’s for ?*

Kinda like a one-stop shopping so you don’t have to go to all these different sites. Everything is all inclusive.

*Anything missing from the page other than the specific appointment location that you think would be helpful?*

Just what I said earlier, about the appointment location -e exact place where the appt is. Other than that, it looks good. It does.

