# # P16 Notes - My VA Payment Information and Onsite Notifications

1/14/2022

*As part of the scheduling for this session, we asked if you had either received payments from VA or incurred education, compensation, or pension debt. Can you tell me how you got info from VA about updates on those payments or debts?* 

Um. I do not have debts and it wasn’t clear about payments being current. I was receiving payments for school. I no longer receive payments for school. 

*Do you remember what information about your payments was included? Was that helpful? Was anything missing?* 

I am trying to recall. I was getting a notice from my bank whenever the housing money would hit. I wouldn’t be told when school was getting paid. I just kept looking to see if it said I owed money.

*Impact you:* 

It was a little nerve racking the first time it happened. When it said I owed 2 dollars I was like why. It turned out that the veteran association told me that it is normally. The not knowing was, I kept watching it on the school website. 

*Let’s talk about the website - how do you use VA.gov?* 

Very seldom. I frequently get emails about veteran stuff through different emails. Occasionally they’ll have me check it out and I’ll go look to see if it applies to me. 

*Now I’m going to ask you to go va.gov, and have you share your screen. I’d like for you to show me how you’d go about finding new information about your payments and debts:* 

Well first I would need to sign in. I have id.me sign in. I’ll receive a code by phone. 

Okay I am logged in. so my payments would be under education, view payment history. We don’t have record of va payments for you. 

*Move to prototype.*
Oooo this person has debt.

*Are you familiar with this?*
/scrolling/Is this the profile page? It looks like the profile page. Oh no, you have a profile, so this is before the profile page. I think I have seen this page before but all VA pages looks the same. 


*Talk to me about how this lines up with information that is important to you:* 

Well, obviously the you have new debt stands out pretty clearly to me and it would freak me out in a good way. Like “oh shit I better pay my bills.” Got a claim and they are checking in on it, unread healthcare messages, an appointment, nothing about medications. 

You have 3 outstanding debts! That also is another alarm. They deposited money, that would be helpful. Application for disability and health care going through. It seems like anything that’s super important for someone going through a VA claim, they’re try to notify you of the status of everything as its going on. They’re not ignoring you. 

*How would you rank the sections you see here, in order of importance to you?* 

Being warned that I have debt is tied for first place with the being told I have a deposit coming. I mean, if I am really relying on the money. Obviously appointments are super important, that would probably be number 2. 

From what I understand, about disability compensation, I was told I have a 0, for people thinking that they have a shot, it may be more important for them. 

*So it’s kind of like a case-by-case priority?*

Maybe the ability to choice rank them would be better. Obviously the warning should be on top. 

*What about the other ones? What do you think about the placement of the warnings within the page?*

It seems logical. They seem logically placed. I might include, on a phone, I would ask for the payment to be more toward the top, because that is a warning, and I have to scroll way down for that info. And it’s a time sensitive thing, those usually go toward the top. 

*And so that deposit is a warning to you as well?*

Yes, especially if I need to pay bills. It’s an alert. It’s not a warning, it’s an alert. It’s a good thing.

*Do you think that that information needs the same kind of treatment as the outstanding debt info?*

No, outstanding debt is priority 1. An alert saying you were paid is always nice. Because you have debt as well.

*If you wanted to update your bank information that the VA has on file. Talk me through how you would you do that:* 

I mean they have manage direct deposit. I assume if I click on that, I can tell them more about who my bank is and where to put it. That would be my assumption. Trying to think if there’s anything else. Otherwise I would go to my profile, and see if I can edit from there because its personal information.

*That makes sense. You’ve said that payment and debt are both important. Is one more than the other?*
In some ways, debt would be more important. Debt would be a warning, payment is an alert. It’s a notification. The yellow box is a perfect example of a warning - caution, caution, you have debt. And the gray box is a notification - it’s alerting you that you’ve been paid. They do work, but in the top of this page I’d also like to see a notification that I’ve been paid, along with the debt. If I had an upcoming medical appt that day or the day before, I’d probably want that notification there was well.

If you don’t bother to scroll down, and you’re on the phone,  if you have a lot of stuff going on, you won’t see it.

Or, it could have a little Blinky light or something - if you haven’t looked at all the notifications, it keeps the light open. You might just scroll down anyway, or you might not remember. And I know a lot of the people I deal with have short term memory issues.

*What are your thoughts on having them repeated in a couple places on the page?*

Yeah, a little red dot somewhere on the page might help, like “there is a notification you haven’t seen”

*If you clicked on manage your VA debt*
That also might take you to your bank information - a summary of your debt, but maybe also direct deposit information.

*If you came back to this page after you clicked on that alert, what would happen to the alert?*

Um, there’s two possibilities. One is that it disappears, one that it would remain. The only reason I would want this to disappear is if I paid the debt. If I paid it, make it go away. Otherwise, it should stay there.

*Anything else you can do with this alert?* 
You can literally close it if you want. Some people may not have spoons or bandwidth - if you don’t, it’s probably a good idea to focus on the things you can deal with, rather than the things you can’t. If I couldn’t handle it, I would want the choice to close it, but I wouldn’t want it to close just because I clicked on it.

*If you closed it and came back the next day and hadn’t paid your debt, would you expect to see it again?*

/Hesitates./ It would be a good idea to reopen it rather than be closed permanently. But technically, it would still be down here so…/hesitates/ I don’t know how debt is collected with the VA. With the school, they have a little bit of a grace period. As it gets closer to the end of that period, people need to be reminded. If the debt is due the minute that you see that bill, then maybe continuing to warn people every day is important. It’s considered intermittent spacing. It’s very good for memory.

*Would you expect to see your Last education payment here?*

the only reason I would say yes is that it is part of my history. They have my records. I know I will be trying to get a PhD, so I’m going to be reusing my educational benefits. I don’t know how many months I have left. I am re-applying. I am going to use the rest of my GI Bill. I can’t recall all of the details immediately and that would be the easiest way to find it. 

*If you had this information about your last payment in front of you, would that be sufficient to tell you how many months you had used just by looking at this deposit?*

No I would prefer for it to be listed. It doesn’t need to be details but I do need it. I am going to reapply. 

*Are you familiar with VA travel pay?* 

I read the emails from the va. depending on how far away you are form the va you can be compensated for going. 

*Where would you look on this page to get that compensation?:* 

/scrolls down to footer and back up/ I thought about that but. There. Request travel reimbursement. 

*I noticed you scrolled around and looked around for it. Where you looking in any particular part of the page?*

no I just figured that there would be something because you mentioned it. I wouldn’t have known this to check it for particular idea.  I guess I’d want to look more at that, because I’d need to know how far. Because we have one in Long Beach. But the issue is not the distance, but it’s the time. You have to travel through LA to get to Long Beach, which is an hour, hour and half, two hours to get to any appt. Which

*What are your thoughts on having that link in this part of the page?*

It has to do with health care. It’s money for it. It probably makes it a lot easier at least to inform people that they can be paid for it.

*If you wanted to get co-pay statements, or information about co-pays, where would you expect to see that information on this page?*

Well, it’s not under health care. /scrolls up/Its not under claims and appeals. /scrolls down/ It’s not under benefit payments and debts. Hmm. If I owed money, I would expect it to be under health care, or under benefit payments and debts. Because it is a debt. Unless it was informational about my past co-pays. Then I would expect it definitely under health care if it was informational. But if it’s about debts, I would expect it under Benefit payments and debts.

*Can you summarize what this page is for in your own words now that you’ve seen it?*

I think it’s a dashboard for anything related to you with the VA. Managing the tools and hopefully making it seem like the VA is keeping track of you, and not ignoring you. That’s what I think it’s for.

*Is there anything missing from the page?*

/scrolling up and down. / Uh… missing. /scrolling/ I can’t…I honestly think it’s pretty good. /scrolls and pauses at the top of the page/Considering it’s a long page, maybe being notified about the other activities. Being notified that you have an appointment coming up, that you have a payment,.

*You mean here at the top of the page, instead of below?*

I mean both. Because the debt is listed both times.  If you’re not paying attention, you definitely won’t see it. Unless you know you’re supposed to see it. Because the warnings are priority one. Priority two are notifications.
