# P17 Notes - My VA Payment Information and Onsite Notifications Research
1/14/22, 4pm EST

/Participant uses ZoomText, screen magnification with voice over functionality./

Start recording.
*I have started recording*. I’d like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record my screen and the audio as we talk today? 
*Yes I am. 

*Ok great. We already confirmed while we were waiting for others to join that you get payments from VA. Can you tell me how you got info from VA about updates on those payments?* 
Um I don’t normally look at that too often. I guess I didn’t know that you could. I haven’t paid attention to it. I am starting from zero then. 

*How do you know that you’ve been paid?*

It is direct deposited; she checks the bank statement. My wife. 

*So you don’t really hear from VA about payments?*

Don’t hear a word from VA.

*How do you use VA.gov, if at all?* 

I use myhealthevet and I have an appeal in. I check the progress on that. You start at DoD and login to that. Then it directs you to va.gov when you check the appeal progress then when you are at va.gov you can check it. 

*Now I’m going to ask you to go va.gov, and have you share your screen. /Participant goes through screen sharing process/*

*I know you mentioned you use a screenreader. Is it talking to you right now?*
 
It is off now, because it gets annoying. I can’t hear both of you. 

*Are you still able to navigate with out it?*

Yeah, what I do with that is that I make it big enough so I can find what I’m looking for. And then I’ll turn the speech on and have it read it. Other than that, it’s just constantly talking. 

*Yes, it can be verbose at times. I’d like for you use the computer as if I wasn’t here throughout the session. Although it may be challenging at times for us to have a conversation while the screenreader is talking, let’s give it a try however you normally would do it.* 

*I’d like for you to show me how you’d go about finding new information about your payments*

I would probably go to VA benefits and healthcare. /clicks on the site wide navigation menu. Hovers over menu. Clicks pension/

*What are you trying to find here?*
I’m trying to find something about me. /hovers over each link and reads aloud, eventually finds payment link in pension menu/
 
Click pension, then go over here. I am trying to find something about me. if it is va benefits and healthcare and then go to pensions it should have. Oh here, view payments history.  

What from here: 

It says sign in or create an account so I would need to do that because I don’t think I have an account. I have changed my email address but that is what I use for all of my va stuff. So now I have sign in with id.me, ds logon, myhealthevet. 

If I do the ds logon it would be the same as when I check my claim and go through two dancing bears but if I go through myhealthevet. I think I signed in, oh now I have to get a code. Why would I have to do that, oh that’s what they are changing right. I clicked call me. 

Screen reader, login flow for sign on, screen reader didn’t say anything, is it due to setting: I believe so. 

From here, how would you go about finding new information about your payments and debts? I don’t know where I would find debt. I don’t have any co-pays, because I am catastrophic.

*What do you mean catastrophic?*

They call me catastrophic so I don’t have any copays. When you go legally blind they consider that catastrophic and that’s why I have the screen reader and large screens. When you are labeled that way you don’t do copays. I used to have to pay 15-20 dollars copays 2 years ago but now I don’t. 

*Thank you. Now I’ll ask you to navigate to My VA. Have you been there before?*

Not that I can remember. /Moderated guides to MyVA./
*Talk to me about how this lines up with information that is important to you:* 
* So far it looks good. When you go to healthcare, I go to myhealthevet and here it shows I don’t have any for the next 30 days. I kind of like this. I have no messages. This is easier then all those boxes. 

*Which boxes are you talking about?*

* They have boxes on myhealthevet with appointments and messages and all that. For somebody that can’t see so good, less is more. You don’t need the pictures and fancy stuff. 

/Participant continues to scroll, pauses over benefits and payments./

*I see you’ve paused there, what are you thinking?*

I kind of like that. 

*What do you like about it?*

Well I like the size of print they have. That’s good, you can have it the screen cut down so you can see more of it. Sometimes with fine print you have to enlarge the screen so much that you can’t see it. But the bold type on there is really nice. 

*So you’re able to read that with more on the screen than normal if the type was smaller?* 

Correct. 

I like this one *scrolls back up to the top of the page*, I didn’t know about that (referring to My VA). 
		
*How would you rank the sections you see here, in order of importance to you?* 

Uh. I guess I would rank the appointments one is the most important.  Do you mean which order I’d want them in?

*Yes, but the sections overall. (reads sections) Which section is most important?*

I would daresay the healthcare is the most important sections, you use that all the time. Claims and appeals, sooner or later that’s going to go away. Health care will be there forever.

Second would be payments to make sure you got it. uh I guess I would have the apply for benefits last because you either apply then you just sit and wait unless you want to check. /Shares tangential story about checking status of appointments for telehealth/ 

*If you came to this page looking to see if your most recent Compensation deposit from the VA had been made. How would you do that?* 

/Immediately scrolls down/ Well I would go to view payment history. 

*But, what about for your most recent payment?  Did you notice that it was in the section*

yes the most resent was on December 30th. 

*And if you wanted to update your bank information, that the VA has on file, how would you do that?*

_hesitates_ Uh, I think I’d go over here on to the right to see Manage your direct deposit.

*Oh ok, I wanted to make sure that was clear to you.*

See but see, I had to move my, I don’t know what you can see, (/note: moderator could not see magnification software during zoom session/) probably the whole thing.  You see, I’ve got Benefits payments and debts here on my screen /mouses over that text/. I have to move my mouse over to get to the manage your direct deposit. 

*Yeah, what I see on my screen looks like a regular webpage. I can’t see your magnification.*

When I move it over to see manage your direct deposit, then I can’t see manage your benefit and payment debts. To make the screen large enough to read manage your direct deposit, I can’t see that other part. 

*How does that impact the way you understand what you’re looking at?*

Well, it’s one of those things, once you get used to it, you know you got to do it, it’s ok. But I did one for a survey for something the other day, and they put the next button way down on the lower right corner. Well, so I gotta answer the question and you have to search for the next. Rather than having it right next to right next to it or right under the question or something. See, if you hadn’t mentioned changing that, I probably never would’ve moved over there and found that manage your direct deposit. 

*Oh, ok if you had come here on your own, without me, thinking I have to change my direct deposit, you wouldn’t have*

Yeah, I probably wouldn’t have seen it. I would’ve figured that little bitty gray thing /mouses over view payment history link/, that was it. I wouldn’t have gone over to the side.

*Thank you so much for sharing that.  I’m also interested in your thoughts about timing for financial information. If that most recent payment was 6 months ago, would that be helpful to have that information?*
I don’t know. See down here at the bottom, it has /view your payment hisitory/. You could probably go there and check all of them.

*Oh, so that link would be enough for you to figure that out.*

Yeah, because if you added something else, there would be too much on there. That’s in that gray box, if anyone was looking at that, they would see there was something down there /mouses over link/ because it’s in that darker shaded box.

/Switches over to prototype, gives prompt to review My VA with alerts on page./

*What do you notice that’s different about this version of my VA compared to the one we were just looking at?*

/Scrolls, quiet/

*What are you thinking as you look at this?*
/scrolling/ Well, I”m looking

*Do you notice any differences between this one and the other one?*

Yeah, I like the other one, I think.

*Oh, tell me why.*

It’s…I don’t know. It’s just easier for me to read. I”m not really sure why. It’s just easier for me to read. I guess maybe it’s because uh, /scrolling, hesitates/ See, I guess that, yellow or brown, whatever that color is /mouses over alert/ it makes it hard for me to read in that color.

*Ok, the background makes it hard for you to read that text?*

Yeah, when it’s on gray it’s alright, but the yellowish brown makes it hard for me to see.

*Does your screenreader work the same on this page as it did on the last one?*

Clicks. No, it’s not working the same.

*Oh, but is the magnification working okay?*

Yes, that works. But it doesn’t read anything to me.

*Right, that’s because this is a prototype. Are you able to see it?*

Yes, I can get it big enough.

*Ok, I know that background makes it hard for you to read that text. I just want to talk to you about your understanding of what that is? There are a few of these on the page. What are they?*

/Scrolls down, reads each alert/. You have 3 outstanding debts…That website is still on there so Ic an’t read the whole thing. Manage something. /Appears something is blocking his view that we can’t see in the Zoom sessiion./

*Ok, let’s call these alerts on the page. What do you think about where these are placed on the page?*

That’s fine where they are. The one thing nice about having those in a different shade, its like  you’re saying it’s an alert, it’s like oh the brown ones there I have to look at it.  But, that’s just me. I have an issue with red. I get this thing from the county newsletter and a while ago they should make it better and put the writing in red. I couldn’t read it. And that’s true for al to of people who don’t see too good, they don’t see red for some reason. I had to get ahold of them and told them, a lot of people can’t read red, so I contacted them and they changed it to blue and its been good. 

*Oh good, I’m glad they took action on it. That’s pretty alienating to make it so a lot of people can’t read it. Thanks for sharing that. I also want to ask you about are you familiar with VA travel pay?*

Yes /sighs//and that is a mess. You used to be able to do it at a kiosk and now you do it online.  I tried to do it and I couldn’t. My wife tried and had a horrible time with it, and she still doesn’t know if she got it right. If I get care in community care and get the letter. You should upload the thing into the thing but there’s no instructions on how to upload it. I could call her back down and she could explain it to you, it’s a mess.  /Picks up the phone and calls his wife to come within the house./

*While we wait for her, I just want to ask if you were going to try to request that pay from here, is there any part of this page where it would make sense for you to see a link to that?*
/Scrolls and looks around/. Yeah it should be under benefits payments. If it’s a benefit or payment it should be one there that says travel. 

*If you had a copay payment due or wanted to see past co-pays where would it be:* 

Probably in the same thing. in payments. 

*Ok, not in healthcare.* 

/shares story about VA travel claim struggle/
First of all, with VA travel, you have to go to eauth.va.gov/access-va. And, so you get to that site, and it’s a number of steps. it’s real confusing to try to fill out a claim. Its not so bad if it’s for travel to a VA but it if it’s to somewhere else (e.g. pain center) they want you to upload the letter that you get to verify the fact that you went to this appt. they’re suppoed to have the appt, they approve the appt for outside places. they dn’t tell you how to upload the letter at all. if you do, I think I did upload one time, but then they got it and it sat in review status for 6 months and I ended up going to the VA office and I took a copy of everything I submitted and did it manually. She said she would do it once but that I had to start using the online system. But they don’t have the non-VA locations available. When you try to create it, it’s so hard. They just made it more confusing than they ever needed to.

