# My VA Payment Information and Onsite Notifications - P2 Notes

1/12/22, 10:30am EST

Start recording.

1. Do you look for it: I check once a month and I receive letters for the debt. I was told I was overpaid for assistance allowance and it was on the vas behalf. I guess it was a forced debt on their behalf.
2. How did you know: found out through the mail
3. You mentioned that you receive updates on your payments or debts via insert what the participant said. What information about your payments and debts is included? Was that helpful? Was anything missing? I am looking for paym3ent information to make sure I don’t have any more debts. Just to see how it is reporting my status as far as voc rehab.
4. Share more about status: normally when you go to benefits and go through education it will tell you if it is active or inactive. A few times it said inactive when it should have been active.
5. Information able to see: just the debt, not the contact information as in a phone number. Normally it is just an email.
6. Helpful: no, I like to speak to a live person to document who I have spoken with.
7. How do you manage your VA finances? Online, by mail, etc.? All online for me or through the phone at the 1800 number.
8. Let's talk about the website - how do you use VA.gov? Yes I have. It was okay, it use to be easier and I understand the security. It sends me through a loop top get confirmation to my phone. That can get frustrating because it is redundant. When I go to va.gov I am looking for different information like facilities or things going on.
9. No for payment or debt: no if I do use it I am redirected.

First Task: Wayfinding for payment information - 3 minutes

Task goal: Make sure payment and debt information is findable and learn about what kind of information participants would look for.

Now I'm going to ask you to go va.gov, and have you share your screen. I'd like for you to show me how you'd go about finding new information about your payments and debts.

How to get information for payments and debts: Normally I go through my HealtheVet, I go to sign in. Use ID.me then I do the push. Go to view payment history. Then I would go see it.

Most important: date and amount

Letter for new debt forced on you, where would you see it: I would expect to see it under education because it was an education debt.

Second Task: Review My VA and financial info - 8 minutes

Task goal: Validate we have included the right content and links, the structure of the page makes sense, and users can take sufficient action on their financial updates from My VA. We also want to learn about how the participant thinks about timing of finance related notifications.

- Thank you. Now I'll ask you to navigate to My VA.
  
- How did you find it so quickly. I saw the link in the header.
  
- Where would you see compensation: I would expect to see it under benefits and payments.
  
- What about all of the payments made to you: I would click view payment history. I have never seen this so this is pretty nice
  
- What’s nice: it is all right there, not trying to go under all of the headers. I like that it is consolidated.
  
- Update bank information: manage direct deposit.
  
- Talk to me about how this lines up with information that is important to you: Again the payment history. I like being able to manage the direct deposit. The only thing I don’t see is if you needed help.
  
- What would eb useful: just like the feedback button, maybe a help button in case you get lose navigating the segments like direct deposit. If there were a way to separate the compensation like if I just wanted my education to go to a different bank then disability compensation.
  
- Anything other than help information that is missing: I don’t see that I have a debt. If I needed to navigate to that would it tell me under the header or would I need to drill down to see that.
  
- I'm interested in your thoughts about timing for financial information.
  
- How do you want to see it: I wish it was split to see education and disability. As two separate headers.
  
- Still want to see it from a year ago: yes , in cause I am checking my account from a year ago and tax purposes. A lot of times when you have disability payments people want proof, if applying for a home loan you need that on demand, it would eb nice to have it separated for that purpose.
  
- After a payment is made to you or a debt is added, how long do you expect to see that information on this page? I wish it was split to see education and disability. As two separate headers.
  
- Based on what you've seen, what would you say is the most important information on the page? Why? I would say is the healthcare segments because I like that it is consolidated into a one stop shop. It makes it real easy which is not having to go through different pages to get the same information. The importance of everything being here and the actual benefits.
  
- Do you want it on this page in myVA or just payment tool: just the link where it says view payment history, just help it there for 12-24 month period.
  
- You have debt and you don’t see it here, can you go to the debt section: I would expect it to be right here. Let me go to myVA. I guess I would click on payment history. Okay I do not see it.
  
- Using link to prototype, anything different -
  
- Yes, I see the warnings. I'm instantly drawn to that. Yes, I like that.
  
- What do you like about that?
  
- It's automatically alerting me that I need to check something out, just inc ase I missed a corerspondance or I didn't know. Now I feel like I'm informed.
  
- **What do you think about the level of information that's shown in those alerts, or the warnings?**
  
- *scrolling* Um, I think it is perfect. It's not too busy. I guess
  

This will probably be personal, but for instance, I don't have claims & appeals, I would put that down there. I like it.

The side bar still seems the same. I like the fact that I'm being alerted and I have hyperlinks to manage my debt.

**Where do you expect that to take you if you click on that?**

I'd expect that to take me to the last page I saw for debt management.

**If you clicked that, viewed your debt, and came back here- what would happen to the alerts?**

I would think that it would go away.

**OK, and if you had paid your debt, what would you expect to happen?**

I would definitely expect that to go away, and either then alert me, display an alert that tells me your debt has been taken care of.

**Ah, so a confirmation?**

Correct.

**What are your thoughts on seeing two debt notifications on the page?**

I like it. Again, just in case you you're a little busy and you go right down to benefits and payments, I"m beinig reminded that it's right there. Again, not being cognisant of anything else that I'm interested in, just going right to Benefits and Paymenyd.

**I'm curious to get your thoughts on interactivity of the alerts. We talked about the links - is there anything else you can do with these alerts?**

Again, I would just look at them as hyperlinks to take me to what's going on. You know, you have unread messages for your healthcare. So no, I think this is perfect. It's natural, it flows.

**Up at the top, that alert - did you notice the X on the right side of the alert?**

Yes, I did.

What would you expect to happen if you clicked on that?

I would expect for that alert to go away, just during that session.

So if you logged in next time, you'd expect that to come back?

Correct. Unless the debt had been resolved.

**If you look carefully at that text, can you read it to me?**

You have new debt. Manage your VA debt.

**Ok. So from your perspective, what length of time would new be? I"m not workding that in a great way. How old can a debt be until it's not new anymore?**

Just until it's resolved. Just in case they wanted to report it to the credit bureau, just so everyone is on the same page. So as long as there is a debt there, I would want it to say I have outstanding debt.

**One more thing. Are you familiar with VA travel reimbursement?**

Yes

**Ok, where would you expect to see that on this page?**

*Confidently* Under benefits and payments. Because it's a payment.

**I just want to get your thoughts on the overall page before we end the session. Had you used My VA before?**

No, this is the first time I've used it.

**Can you summariize what he page is for?**

It's your overall VA case. Everything about your benefits. I love the fact that they're showing the branch of service, disability rating. It seems liike they've conslidated everything from eBenefits and it's easier on the eyes. The user interface is much better. It's not as busy. You can easily get to where you need to be at, from your health care to payments, see what's going on with applicatiions. It's just easier. And you don't have to search for each individual item as much. I know with ebenefits tehre is a link where you can download your benefit letters, so I would expect that at some point in time, I would see that here, to be able to do those types of things.

**Yes, you've segued into my last question - is there anything missing to you, other than a link to download letters?**

Uh, *scrolling up and down* No. Not that I can think of off the top of my head.

**Ok, well thank you so much for your time.**
