# # P3 Notes - My VA Payment Information and Onsite Notifications
1/12/22
Start recording.
**Note: Participant using assistive speech device, and was very difficult to understand**

*As part of the scheduling for this session, we asked if you had either received payments from VA or  incurred debt. Can you tell me how you got info from VA about updates on those payments or debts?* 

I just login to va. It gets direct deposit. 

*How do you become aware that you got that deposit?*
I see it in my bank account.
Do you receive any updates form VA? 
Not that I am aware of

*How about debts?*
I don’t have any debts with the VA.

*Moderator leads participant to VA.gov*
*I’d like for you to show me how you’d go about finding new information about your payments and debts.*

 I would go here under disability /hovers over View payment history link in Disability section/. I have been 100% for 7 years. It has been awhile since I have had to worry about this.

*So it’s not something you really worry about?*
Correct

*From here, how would you go about finding new information about your payments and debts?* 
I don’t see anything here about debt.  /scrolls around/

*Anywhere you might look?* 
I would try the payment area (in disability section).

*Pauses recording as participant logs in.*
 
*/Participant uses myhealthevet to login/*

*Thank you. Now I’ll ask you to navigate to My VA. Do you use this part of the site?*
I never have.

*Talk to me about how this lines up with information that is important to you.*
It talks about the messages and I do have messages from my doctor. I can get my prescriptions and records here as well.

*Is that helpful to you?* 
Yes, anything is better than trying to call the va.

*Anything else on this page helpful to you?* 
/Scrolls around/Nothing else on this page.

*Say you wanted to see all of the payments that the VA had made to you, how would you do that?* 
Click view va payments. 
*Expected*
yes. It has my disability payment here. 
*
*Helpful to you*: 
Its not critical but its not bad to have access to. Not a need to come here due to the payment being consistent. 

*Recent payment here*
 right here. It is perfect because it shows where it went and how much
*If you wanted to update your bank information that the VA has on file. Talk me through how you would you do that:* 
Manage your direct deposit to manage it. /clicks link. Reads alert/ I would have to login with id.me to do this it looks like. I mean I don’t know where to change it on here. Theres nothing that says where to change the information.
*What would you do from here?* 
/went to personal information page, clicked back./ /Back to direct deposit page./ This would piss me off. It says verified account on id.me required
*Would you do it:* 
if that’s the way to update it I would. 
*Okay great, let’s talk through this payment information section. What information is the most important for you to see here?* 
That they paid me on time. 
Date: normally I can figure it out on myself because it’s the last or first day of the month is when we get it. 
*What would you say is missing?* 
My percentage, it doesn’t show it.
*Why helpful to see in this section*
It can keep them updated as to if their rates are lowered. I would have to wait for a month to get a letter in the mail to be told I was reduced or whatever.
*Help to see here that it wasn’t changed:* 
yes. 

*I’m interested in your thoughts about timing for financial information. After a payment is made to you or a debt is added, how long do you expect to see that information on this page?* 
Because with electronic payments they have to process and work those out then update the system. If they know ahead of time. 

*Historically if using education benefits was a year ago, would you want to see it*: yes.

*Why useful to see it:* 
I might have exhausted my education benefits and they don’t tell you how much you have left. 
*Based on what you’ve seen, what would you say is the most important information on the page? Why?* 
I would say the healthcare information. Well that’s something I deal with on a daily between prescriptions and appointments. I would email the doctor and within a day or two I would have an appointment or have my prescription. Or you start playing phone tag with the doctors. 

*Would it be helpful to you:* 
this is the same information on my HealtheVet. 

*Moderator switches to prototype to review onsite notifications since participant does not have debt*

*Anything different on this version of My VA compared to what you just saw:*

 /Scrolls  up and down/. Well you have claims and appeals up top. There are things here for disability and education. /scrolls back up, mouses over alert/ I don’t know how to get debt with the va but I imagine people do. 

*Yes, it is something people incur. I too was suprised to find out about that when I learned about VA debt. That’s one thing I really want to get your feedback on, that information there on the page. Can you talk to me about what that is and the information shown there? Imagining that you did have debt with VA and this was your pay.*

Well, it should what debt and why. It would tell me why. And then. You know the government likes to take it back as soon as possible. So there should be some kind of payment schedule. If they overpay for 10 years they can’t just take it all back in one month.  

*How about some other ones on the page?*

Here it tells me I have three debts.  And I can go back again and do it.

*Thoughts on more than on alert:* 
They’re confusing.

*How so?*

Well, manage your VA debt, and manage your VA debt. I think you are just wasting space on the page. The top on tells you that you have a new debt so it’s like a notification but down here it says I have 3 outstanding debts. If you have 3 outstanding then you probably pay on them. 

*Say you clicked on ‘Manage your VA debt’, viewed your debt, and then came back to this page, what would happen to this notification?* 
It should still say I have debt. The new debt would go away but the 3 outstanding debts notification would still be there. Hopefully.

*Say you paid your VA debt, what would you expect to happen to this notification?* 

It should say no debt. Or give a confirmation that it your debt has been paid in full.

*Okay great, let’s talk about any interactivity with these alerts. What can you do with them?* 

Just the manage direct deposit here /mouses over link/. And you don’t need to go through another window to go to the healthcare management section.

*Notice the X in new debt:* 
Yes, I just clicked it and it went away.

*Did you expect that:* 
no

*What would you expect happen:* 
Just that I acknowledge that I have debt.

*After dismissing an alert, how would you find that information again* 
I’d have to come back down here to find it

*Why do you think some are dismissible and some are not?* 
one is an alert that something has changed, and the one down here it to manage the debt. 

*Where to find travel reimbursement:* 
Right here under request travel reimbursement

*Why would it be in this part of the page?*
Because we have travel reimbursement through health care things. 

*At the beginning, we talked about MY VA and you said you had never used that before. Can you give me a summary of what that page is for*

It’s basically my access to the VA because I have a disability, and I’m using their healthcare.

*And, was there anything that stood out to you as missing from the page?*
Not really.
