# P5 Notes- My VA Payment Information and Onsite Notifications
Start recording.
*I have started recording*. *I’d like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record my screen and the audio as we talk today?* 

 That I am

*As part of the scheduling for this session, we asked if you had either received payments from VA or incurred education, compensation, or pension debt. Can you tell me how you got info from VA about updates on those payments or debts?* 

So primary it has been through mailed letters. 

*Is that helpful for you?*

I mentioned this to another group of yours - it has to come in the right envelope, with the right typeface, etc, so I know it’s not spam and don’t chuck it in the garbage. I’m more likely to look at it if it comes in a regular looking email.

*You cut out. /Lost participant/*

So you were saying you’d be more likely to read a regular looking email than a spammy looking envelope.

Yes, in order of what will make me pay attention:
*  real looking envelope
* real looking email
* spam element

*What kind of information is included?* 

Normally, the govt, if your’e still in the reserves while getting disability they collect back the difference at the end of the year. You either pay it back at that time or something to that effect, but during the pandemic the government hasn’t been taking it back. They have been deferring it. starting in March they will start to ask for back payment. 

*Ok, got it, that makes sense.*

*How do you manage your VA finances?* 

I actually haven’t started paying it back yet, I’m still trying to figure that out. There’s two ways I can go about it. One, I can have them withhold my future disability payments until that amount has been recouped, or I can pay it all off with a credit card. And then pay my credit card off. The benefit there is that I’d get the credit card points.

*Let's talk about the website - how do you use VA.gov?* 

Primarily to check on my claims. I also assist my father in getting enrolled. He has missed out on about 45 years of benefits he didn’t use. I am trying to do what I can to help if now that I know the system. Having a level to log on and actually see all of the forms and steps have been helpful as well. 


*Now I'm going to ask you to go va.gov, and have you share your screen and show me how you would find payment and debt information: .* 


I would go up here (main navigation) to benefits and healthcare. For payments go to disability then look at payment history. Or try to look at claim so I would appeal for that. 

 Or, I would click right from the link in the email. 

I would expect any new debt that has been added, the website should populate at the same time. The tools on the backend should be connected. The va accounting department decides I owe an extra 5K , their system should be populated to va.gov so they can see how much I owe in my profile. If you are waiting on hand jam, maybe batch process. but even then it should be longer than a few days at most. I wouldn’t be shocked if it took longer to get a letter. By the time I get the letter or email the profile should already be updated. The email trigger shouldn’t be done until the profile is updated.

*So you’d expect to get an email, and then click through and see it:* 

yes.

*Expect if no email, to know about the debt here:* 
Yes there should be something in myVA. There’s a notification portal. There you go you have new va debt. 

*Expect this:* 
I was click myVA to get to messages or notifications but if it takes me right to it got it. 
 
*Now I'll ask you to navigate to My VA. Talk to me about how this lines up with information that is important to you:* 

(/reading page/) Yeah I would say those are the primary things that I would use the va for and would want regular access to. That should be on the home page. Here instead of having the four block thing, not saying it should be here, maybe have it as a menu or a scrolling sidebar but when I login to my account the stuff under myVA is what I would want to see. most people expect to see what they see on other sites, they don’t get to a general menu they get to the details. The home page is the page when you login to the account. 

*Say you came to this page looking to see if your most recent Compensation and Pension deposit from the VA had been made. How would you do that?* 

Right here, view payment history. 

*Say you wanted to see all of the payments that the VA had made to you, how would you do that?* 

Right here. (/mouses over view payment history link/)

*If you wanted to update your bank information that the VA has on file. Talk me through how you would you do that.* 

Right here a mange direct deposit. 

*Okay great, let’s talk through this payment information section. What information is the most important for you to see here?* 

[the debt information] Rather than the alert about a debt. It [detailed debt information] should be here. Why would I click something else?

*What would you want to see?* 

Well lets click it to see what it says.  It looks like I would still need to click check status so it should tell me what I owe. The status should be right on myVA or if theres a concern about emotionally triggering a vet and they don’t want to see it when they log on I can understand but only have it be 1 click not two clicks deep. 

*Anything here (debt status page) important to see on myVA:* 
 
Yes, for me I would want to see this block here. /{The debt block on the va page)/. Maybe some people are triggered and don’t want to see their debt in their face each time logged on okay, but only 1 click deep or have a button next to it to show so you don’t need to go to entire new page. That I would want on myVA page, this grey box here. Then probably a link to this stuff [other debt content] is sufficient. 

*If you go back to the My VA page. I want to get your thoughts about timing for financial information. Here we’re showing you your most recent deposit. How far back do you want to see*: 

I would want to see the most recent deposit, regardless of how old it is.

*When you landed on this page, you noticed this alert and thought it was more prominent. What are your thoughts on the level of information shown in those call-outs?* 

There is no information besides click here for more info. You have debt.

*What would you change about these call-outs?* 

Take the grey box [debt status] and replace this whole damn yellow box. Or a show tab if needed. Still keep the link inside the box.

*Same at the top:*
This one I am guessing /hesitates and sighs/ . Is this basically, your notifications?

*What do you think?*

Yes, but even then put is a notification up here recent notifications instead of [starts reading down the page] going to profile, debt then healthcare. Nothing says notification or messages. If I weren’t thorough, I’m not always, I might think it’s the only information available here even regarding the debt. I may not that if I scroll pass health I get to this section [payment information]. 

*Helpful to have two placed:* 

I think is is redundant to have it at two places on this page. I am surprised that this notification isn’t next to my name in a notifications tab with a red circle and number (in the header).

*Say you clicked on 'Manage your VA debt', viewed your debt, and then came back to this page, what would happen to this notification?* 
I would not expect the top one to be there but the second one would be because your debt didn’t go away. 

*Viewing is disqualified as new:* 

yes it should be gone. 

