# # P7 Notes - My VA Payment Information and Onsite Notifications
1/12/2022

*Before we look at the website, I’d like to get a little background information from you. As part of the scheduling for this session, we asked if you had either received payments from VA or incurred education, compensation, or pension debt. Can you tell me how you got info from VA about updates on those payments or debts?* 

When you say payments it was like money for school benefits or something like that? 

*Yes.*

 I don’t have compensation but I used the GI Bill for 4 years. 

*Oh cool. How did you get updates on your payments?*

When I came back home after discharge, one for the first stops  was to the va in MA. It helped that my neighbor was a retired vet as well. 

*Once you started receiving the payments, how did you get information that a deposit had been made, or any new info?*

Back then they use to send the check to my house, I am talking about after I got out in 76. They used to send checks. 

*Well, have you received any payments or incurred debts recently?*

Well, I am a fiduciary for a 100 percent disabled vet. The account is under me, his disability comes to that account. I get emails from the VA like it goes up a certain amount because of like cost of living or something. 

*So, you get information about an increase. Is there nay other info that’s helpful to you as someone who is managing finances?*
 Not so much no. 

*Was anything missing?* 

No. this is my first time being a fiduciary, so I have questions about that, that may not pertain to this confirmation. One the money comes into the bank, and it just sits there you know. He has Alzheimer’s so his spending is minimal.

*Let’s talk about the website - do you use VA.gov at all?*

Yes I use it for myself for dealing with my primary care physician, and when I do online exercise through the va program. 

*Oh, ok. And do you ever have to use VA.gov for the person you’re a fiduciary for?*
 Va.gov for person you’re taking care of: No I haven’t. the only time I need to login for them is the fiduciary portal I have to login and report once a year. 

*Now I’m going to ask you to go va.gov, and have you share your screen. I’d like for you to show me how you’d go about finding new information about your payments and debts.*

/first goes to MHV/
Goes to va.gov, would I use myhealthevet, 
Use myhealth instead of va.gov: well its myhealth.va.gov.

*From here, how would you go about finding new information about your payments and debts?* 

If it is an education payment I would go under education to view payment history. 

*How about if you incurred debt:* 
Lets see. /scrolls around page/ I am looking at all of the tabs here, I don’t see anything that would trigger me to pay a debt, unless I go to payment history and it has debts.  (Reading page) oh here manage your va debt. Okay check the status debt, I don’t think I have an account for that. Oh sign in with my HealtheVet account, so I could really just sign in here. 

/signs in and navigates to debt status page/

I would hate to be surprised and learn that I do actually owe them money.

*I hope that won’t be the case for you here*

/No debt/ Actually to be honest with you, I did get two months of benefits that were past the time when I was completing my undergraduate degree. But I didn’t have to pay it back.

*I’d like you to imagine that new debt has been added to your account- after you log-in, where would you expect to see that information after logging in, or how would you expect to be notified?*

/Reads content on page/ If you believe you had a debt, you could call this number. If you had other questions, you could go to these links /scrolls further down the page/.  I do get medical copay debts.

*Ok. But if you didn’t even know to think you had a debt, would you expect this website to tell you, “hey guess what, a debt has been added to this account?*”
I would expect someone from VA to email me to tell me I had an important document in your account.

*Ok, now I’m going to ask you to go My VA. Are you familiar with it?*

Mmm, no. I don’t think so.

*No problem, I can tell you how to get there. /Guides participant to My VA./*

I think mostly because I just use the healthcare these days.

*Talk to me about how this lines up with information that is important to you:* 

Okay so as far as healthcare all of that stuff, I am familiar with, prescriptions scheduling appointments, records, and messages. /scrolls down/ Benefit payments and debts. I don’t get payments and as are as debts it is copays when I renew the prescriptions. /scrolls down/ Applying for VA benefits, I am ineligible for Gi bill benefits and I am not disabled, if I were I would make use of those links.

*Does this page strike you as something that’s personalized for you?*

Just me as an individual. I think for me, if it were personalized I would need things that are related to the benefits I could get as a senior which is a lot of it is health related and wellness. I don’t know many people my age going back for education. That is rare. Disability I understand even though I am not disabled with the va. so if I think it is personalized to me not really. I see that they want to generalized for all vets. 

*Thanks for sharing that insight. Let’s go back to your benefit payment section. How do you feel about this section?*

I think its um pretty straightforward, you can view benefits history, if you have to make changes to your direct deposit. If I can click this and see what it is. /clicks to direct deposit page/Okay so I would need that account and verify that if I needed to change banks for payments. It is straight forward. 

*Moderator sends link to prototype to review debt. Say you came to this page looking to see if your most recent compensation deposit had been made.*

/Scrolls down/ Let’s see, it says right here View your payment history (reads link). Oh! But wait, see here? Without even clicking, it says right here, we made this deposit on January 1.

*What do you think about seeing this information on the screen?*
 It clear. It says they have sent it here; it is clear, you don’t need to click around. If it were me, I would immediately check the bank to make sure it was there. I would come here if I didn’t see it on my bank statement probably. Because when I check for my friend who I’m the fiduciary it goes between the 1st and 3rd. I don’t know what in does. But I check, and I see it.

*Is there any information here that’s missing that you think would be important to know?*
No. I thought maybe the type of payment, but I now see where it says the type of benefits and it says compensation and it is recurring.  That is fairly clear.

*I’m interested in your thoughts about timing for financial information. After a payment is made to you or a debt is added, how long do you expect to see that information on this page?* 

Just taking technology into account, it would be there quickly; payment goes out and notification goes out. 

*What if the payment was over a year ago?*

I wouldn’t expect to see the highlighted on this page but under check payment history. 
 
*Based on what you’ve seen, what would you say is the most important information on the page? Why?* 

Well this section here you have 3 outstanding debts, which is important. You want to manage that and you know managing the direct deposit. If there are finances that come in and out, that you can manage it from the website. 

*I’m glad you pointed out that manage your VA debt. That’s another thing I wanted to get your feedback on. Talk to me about those warnings you see on the page.*

/Scrolls up/ I see at the top that there are two unread messages, I am familiar with that. I stay in contact with my doctors so I would go read those. I like that they have those kind of alerts available to look at.

*How they are placed within page:*

They’re placed in the same location, but because they’re beige, they don’t hit you in the face like maybe they should. Like if it was red or a brighter orange. Like hello hello you have two messages. 

*Level of information* 

It is sufficient. I don’t think it should be on the first screen. Some of it you will need the next page. You may need privacy in that particular area

*You mentioned you would change color to make it stand out more - does that warrant an alert in your mind?* 

In healthcare where it says you have two unread messages they could be critically important I think that’s warranted. And the other where you have  outstanding debt, I don’t know how devastating of an announcement that is but you may incur some additional interest, charges, if not paid. If you don’t pay they may collect interest. 

I*f you were to click on ‘Manage your VA debt’, where would you expect to go?* 

I would imagine if I click that it will take me to the section where however many type of debts that I have like education or medical co pays, I don’t know what other debt you can have with the va.  But it would be itemized and you could see when it occurred and you can cross-reference with your own data and make sure it’s not something strange. 
 
*Would you expect to see copays, under benefit payments and debts?* 
Yes. 

*Why here, and not healthcare?*
Healthcare I only expect things between me and the doctor/nurses. When I get the bill there’s nothing about doctors on there. 

*Say you clicked on ‘Manage your VA debt’, viewed your debt, and then came back to this page, what would happen to this notification?* 

Um. If the debt was paid maybe the alert would go away. I would hope it goes away upon the va receiving the payment. It might not be simultaneous. But now that you. Now that you mention it I don’t know if I want it to say I have 5 debts, or 3 debts - just outstanding debt. I don’t want to look like a dead beat on the internet. 3 does not feel good at all. 

*Can you scroll up to the stop of the page?*
 
I didn’t focus on it because I expect it to be there. It’s on all of pages. You’re talking about the crisis alert. 

*No, I’m talking about the yellow one.*

Oh the mange the va debt. No, I didn’t focus on it. This one is more general it doesn’t say how much debts which is more appropriate. It is sufficient  for me. Even if it were the exact same alert rather than 3 outstanding debts, that would be ok. When I click it then I expect to see all of the debt with date/time. 

*So 2 similar alerts on the page don’t bother you?:* 

Yes that would be fine with me

*`X` beside it:* 
I expect it to move the alert off the page. 
* 
* Do you ever dismiss alerts?

* If I took care of the issue like when I go to the portal for auto insurance and they say I have this then I would X those out.
*Ok, so if you had already paid this new debt and saw this, what would you think?*

I would read it, to make sure it wasn’t an oversight. But if I had already paid it, I would dismiss it.

*You can go ahead and close it - how would you find that information now?*

/Scrolls down/ I’d go down here, manage your debt (Benefit payment and debt section).

*Why do you think some are dismissible and some aren’t?*

/Scrolls up and down/ I don’t know. /Hesitates/ That would not be my method of operation, to dismiss it without investigating. But if I did..how would I look at it again? Would I want to? I don’t think so.



