# 526 Self-Service Claims for Increase 01-20-2018, 1:00 PM, Rick (P4)

[Session report](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/blob/master/products/disability/526ez/research/jan-2018/notes/p4-session-report.md)

## Session transcription

**Moderator (M): *Introduction to session (pre-recording)***

**M: So first off, just a few background questions. Tell me what branch in the service you served in and when you separated.**

Participant 4 (P4): US Army. '85 to December of '99.

**M: Great and where do you live now?**

P4: I live at Cracker, MO.

**M: How do you like it out there?

P4: I like it.

**M: That’s good. What’s your favorite thing about it?**

P4: I like the trees.

**M: Nice, nice. Yeah, I’m in a very more of an urban area, so the trees aren’t as notable here.**

P4: It’s a very rural area. I came from Nebraska which is a lot of prairies.

**M: Ok, great. Um alright, so let’s talk about your experience filing a disability claim. Tell me, how long after your separation did you first file a claim?**

P4: That’s, that's a good question. I worked in the medical field and I felt like it was my right to file a disability claim as I was being as I was processing into the civilian sector. And actually, I had to go in front of the hospital commander and the hospital sergeant major to well, they really chewed my ass for asking for a VA physical. So I thought it was a very difficult process at that particular time. 

**M: Yeah. Yeah, I'm sorry to hear that.**

P4: And I filed initially before I ever left the Army.

**M: Oh, alright. Ok. I’m sorry to hear you had a hard time with that. What prompted you to file?**

P4: I’ve been a paratrooper for years. I mean, I’d gotten to the point where my back hurt and my knees hurt.

**M: Yeah, certainly sounds reasonable. So how did you...go ahead.**

P4: I‘m glad I did as it turned out. I mean, it was a, well in my case it was a lifesaving event.

**M: Oh, wow. Tell me more about that. How did it end up being a lifesaving event for you?**

P4: Well within a couple of months of being discharged I had a MS exacerbation and that probably took another 8 or 9 months before it was diagnosed as MS. And looking back at it, I had had those types of symptoms throughout part of my service and in fact I had a shoulder surgery in '99 that required an MRI and I had just a huge amount of lesions in the thoracic and cervical spine. As a matter of fact the surgeon was a friend of mine and I asked him why I had those lesions and he said well some people just have lesions. And I never gave it a second thought, but that MRI has disappeared off the planet and, you know, to me that was like a huge cover up.

**M: Oh, yeah. Yeah I can certainly see how that would raise some suspicion. When you applied, when you first applied for disability, where did you go to apply?**

P4: I was one of the first soldiers at Ft. Leonard Wood to go to the VA clinic in the hospital. They had just opened it up. And I mean, when I say one of the first ones I’m talking one of the first 5. So they had opened up a clinic in the hospital at Ft. Leonard Wood.

**M: Ok, alright. Great. Great I’m sure that was great timing. Yeah, so what are your thoughts about applying for VA benefits online? Have you had any experience with that?**

P4: No, I have not. I have always used an advocate. Specifically the PVA and that’s the only way I have ever done it.

**M: Ok. Great, well I'm sure it's helpful to have those resources. So, let’s switch gears a little bit. Thanks for that background. I know there's a lot there but I want to get your feedback on the prototype for the website that we're working on too. So, so as I mentioned I'm on a team working on vets.gov and we're working on a part of it that will help people apply for or update their disability claims. So let me share my screen with you.**

*Initiates screenshare*

**M: Are you able to see my screen?**

P4: Umm, not yet. I'm having really a lot of difficulties. Umm besides being able to hear you.

**M: Oh ok.**

P4: Let's see if I can do it this way here.

**M: Let me know when you can see it.**

P4: Ok. 

**M: Let's see here. Are you opening up GTM on the tablet again?**

P4: Yes I am

**M: Alright. **

P4: I'm just in a buffering mode for whatever reason. 

**M: Ok.**

P4: It's really a strange thing.

**M: So what are you seeing Rick? Is it still loading?**

P4: Yeah, I’m having problems. I’m sorry.

**M: That's alright. What do you see? Maybe we can help you out?**

P4: What I see is 2 questions on a lintner scale. And it's just locked on there. 

**M: Ok, you might need to quit GTM and restart it. Yeah, I think that might be the feedback questions after you leave a session. Let's see. Do you see. If you quit out of the GTM app and if you can on your tablet go to the email that Kristen sent you with the link to join the session and do that again.**

P4: Ok, I'm going to do that again

**M: Ok.**

P4: I’m sorry I feel like it’s on dial-up, err dial-in or something.

**M: I'm sorry. Is it just really slow for you?**

P4: Yeah and it’s usually very high speed internet. What’s the, how’s this been helping claims? This website?

**M: Yeah, well, so. The first part of it were working on is letting people update claims if one of their rated conditions has gotten worse. So it would make that process a lot easier once it’s live.**

P4: Ok, enter meeting ID or name. What was the ID?

**M: Yeah let me see. It is...**

*Gives meeting ID*

**M: Looks as though I see you starting to join. **

P4: Ok.

**M: You just want to choose the phone option for audio**

P4: Ok. Ok, I can see and hear you now. 

**M: Can you turn down the volume on your tablet?**

P4: Ok.

**M: I'm still getting a little bit of echo.**

P4: Let's see if I can't disconnect from you.

**M: Well, um. Ok. I think now we might not be able to hear you. I'll unmute. Ok. Rick, can you still hear me?**

P4: Yes.

**M: Ok, great. Oh, perfect. So now I think we're good to go. Can you see my screen?**

P4: Yes. 

**M: Aright, perfect. Thanks for getting that set back up. So on this prototype, so suppose. I'm going to give you a scenario here. Suppose that you’ve been feeling like the condition that you’ve rated for has become more severe and it’s time to update your rating at the VA to account for that worsening. So I'll show you the screens. Just let me know if you'd like me to click anywhere or scroll anywhere and I can do that for you, but just imagine that you're trying to accomplish this and update your rating at the VA with your conditions that have gotten worse.**

P4: Alright.

**M: And I’m going to ask you to think aloud as much as you can so that we can understand what's making sense for you, what questions you might have about things. So tell me about what you’re seeing here.**

P4: Ok, I understand that. How do I fill...save this to hard copy? Is that ok? can that be done?

**M: Well, yeah, what I’m showing you is a prototype so it’s not live yet. But it sounds like you’d’ be interested in getting a paper form?**

P4: Well,  in my case when dealing with TBIs and stuff like that, sometimes it’s a lot easier to work with hard copy than to always have the computer screen so you can double check yourself.

**M: Sure. Yeah. Yeah, so that’s a good point. So, I’m not sure if we would actually be able to go through that here but that’s good to know.**

P4: Ok.

**M: Ok. So, let’s see, if you were going to fill this out on a tablet or a phone or a computer, just talk me through the steps that you would take here.**

P4: Well it says start the application, so I would hit start.

**M: Ok. Tell me about what you’re seeing here. What do you think these options are?**

P4: Well, I’ve never filed, its worsening, and I want to appeal my decision. I see all of those. Ok. So let’s say I want to do an appeal, let’s see what that’s like.

**M: Ok. And tell me why you chose that one. **

P4: Because a lot of times, I think it's a game with the VA is what I think. I think a lot of times they low ball you and people get disappointed and never go and file again and never argue the point. 

**M: Yeah, ok. Yeah that’s certainly annoying**

P4: Well I’ll tell you, I met a WWII Vet who'd been on a mission in Sicily going up these cliffs. 1,000 men. Out of 1,000 men 90% were either killed or captured. He wound up as a POW. He had artillery fired on him. He'd been a POW for 3 years. He did the VA claim. They rated him at 30% and then in the '70s they changed his rating to 10 because they felt like his hearing wasn't that effected because he didn't have blood coming out of his ears on a daily basis. 

**M: Yikes. That's terrible.**

P4: This guy, you know, is harder than woodpecker lips and he was treated that way and he never appealed. He was just like, "this is my lot in life". 

**M: Yeah. Yeah, ok. So if you chose the appeal option and hit continue, here’s what would be next. What are your thoughts about this?**

P4: I don’t know. Is that just something to fluster people with? That you have to go back into eBenefits to do that?

**M: How do you feel about seeing this?**

P4: To me it’s very frustrating. I would find it flummoxing.

**M: Yeah, I could certainly understand that. Ok. So what would you do at this point if you saw this?**

P4: If I saw this, I’d be pissed off. I’d either quit or find somebody to do the work for me.

**M: Yeah, sure. Alright. Yeah, that makes sense. Alright, let me take you back a step. So how about...**

P4: How about new or worsening?

**M: Yeah, ok. Let's go there. What are you seeing now?**

P4: That I’ve got new conditions or my rated conditions have gotten worse. Let’s say new conditions.

**M: Ok.**

P4: Ok, that'd piss me off again too. 

**M: Yeah, ok.** 

P4: Are they all going to be like that?

**M: They’re not all like that. Let me go into this choice where your rated conditions have gotten worse. It would take you here. So what do you think you’re being prompted to do with these options?**

P4: I don’t know what ID.me is and MHV at this point I wouldn’t trust it.

**M: Ok. Why wouldn’t you trust it?**

P4: Well, like in my case, in my case, after I left the military being in the civilian sector I had my own health insurance so I relied on civilian doctors. And what my civilian doctors would say vs what my VA doctors would say would not always match up.

**M: Ok, yeah. Umm. Hmm. So what do you think about how does that affect how you’re thinking about MHV? What do you think of when you see MHV?**

P4: To me that’s the VA health system and sometimes you become nothing more than a number that they push through. 

**M: Yeah.**

P4: And like in my case I have a neurogenic bladder because of MS. I went to the doctor for a year—and I’m a nurse, ok—and I went to the doctor for a year and he told me the reason I had frequency in urination was because of my prostate. Well you could only get an appointment with a urologist once every 3 months. At 9 months I was so pissed and I told him that if my prostate was such a problem, why did he not physically check it because all you have to do is insert a finger and you know whether you have a prostate problem or not. My neurologist my neurologist was telling me I had a neurologic bladder and I was self catheing on a regular basis. My civilian neurologist. And then I brought this all to the attention of the VA and they were like we’re going to get you catheters and they would issue me for a month and it was my responsibility for each time I would use a catheter was to wash it out and dry it so I could use it later on. Even Medicare at that time didn’t issue single use catheters. Can you imagine the risk a man would take reusing a catheter over and over and over again?

**M: Yeah, sounds like opportunity for infection. Yeah, I'm really sorry to hear that.**

P4: No, I’m just telling you that would be my concern of only being tied to MHV. And I live in a military community. I'm 12 miles away from Ft. Leonard Wood. So I see all these soldiers that are leaving the military after how many tours in Iraq or Afghanistan or whatever and they’re entering the workforce. Ok. So I consider them very similar to the situation I was in.

**M: Yeah. Ok. So I certainly understand that you have concerns about MHV given your experience with the VA medical system. So what do you think you’d do at this point if you had these 3 choices?**

P4: I’d go and get me an advocate.

**M: Sure, yeah. Ok. Alright, let me walk you through a few steps here...**

P4: I like the idea, don’t get me wrong I like the idea, I’m just voicing my concerns.

**M: Oh yeah, absolutely. I appreciate you being willing to share that. That's really helpful for us.** 

P4: Because, like in my case, I use a cane and I limped for 5 years before the VA thought maybe I should get a cane. I limped for 5 years and it’s like some people think it comes out of their pocket, these resources. And, you know, in my mind, it’s only a couple of years ago that we wrote a check for $40 billion dollars so Iran could develop a nuclear program. And I'm thinking to myself, they live off of oil. What the hell do they need nuclear power for? Why would we even do such a thing?

**M: Yeah. Yeah, ok. Umm...*

P4: I guess we’ve got about 3 more minutes. You’ve probably heard about my political beliefs or my feelings.

**M: No that's fine, I mean, I appreciate you being honest. Yeah, let me show you a couple of things, I know you mentioned you'd probably be going to an advocate for the next steps, but if you were to continue on and log in, you might see something like this, then you might get these questions. Well, what are your thoughts about these questions here?**

P4: Ok now how was this developed? Because you’ve already signed in, so is this standard for everybody or is this standard for you?

**M: What would you think? What would your first assumption about that be?**

P4: Well, I’d hope it is just for me. Because blind and sight impaired I wouldn't think would qualify for everybody. And I think a lot of people have pride and wouldn't want you to know if they had financial hardship or having problems with housing. Especially your more senior military people, because, you know, they were at the top of their game not too long ago. And all of a sudden they are struggling in the civilian world and it should not be that way. It should be a transition where if you were good in one area, you remain good. 

**M: Yeah, so what would you do here if none of these apply here to you?**

P4: I’d just hit continue.

**M: Ok, and what do you think would happen then?**

P4: It would probably dumb me down and push me out of the system actually, is what I think. Let’s see.

*Continues to next page*

**M: Yeah, so I’ll continue past this pretty quickly. I'll skip past this step pretty quick too. So , in this scenario suppose it... well actually tell me about what you’re seeing here and what this is asking you?**

P4: This is asking me if these are my ratings. Then it wants to know which ones have gotten worse. 

**M: So suppose your PTSD and intervertebral disc syndrome have both gotten worse. What would you do here?**

P4: I’d check both of them and see what happens.

**M: Ok. And now what?**

P4: It doesn’t give me a choice to go forward. Ok click continue.

**M: So what’s this step telling you?**

P4: That I can upload my records.

**M: Ok. And we have a few more minutes if you are still able.**

P4: Ok, let’s see how I upload my records.

*Continues to next page*

P4: Ok. Let’s do VA medical facility. 

*Selects VA medical facility. Continues to next page*

P4: How come it only has one facility’s name?

**M: that's a good question. So what would you do if you had been seen at multiple facilities?**

P4: I don't know. 

**M: Ok.**

P4: Because I’ll give you an example. I have records in Muskogee, OK because I have MS. They had a Tulsa, OK clinic so I would go to Tulsa because its tied to Muskogee but because I have MS I go to Oklahoma City because that’s where they take care of the MS.

**M: Ok.**

P4: But it's only a spoke because I fall into a spinal cord injury, spinal cord disease program that I'm allowed to go to a hub. The problem with going to a hub is they cannot access any records from the spokes to be able to treat you. So if the hub can't do it, I'd wonder how the rating system accomplishes it. 

**M: Yeah. So what would you enter here then?**

P4: So let me put down Muskogee, OK. 

**M: Suppose that said Muskogee, OK. So what would you do next? And I can scroll if you'd like. **

P4: Ok, add another one. Yeah.

**M: So you’d just click that?**

P4: Yeah

**M: That's not actually linked up in the prototype yet here but that makes sense. I’ll move quickly through the rest of this. I’d like to get your thoughts on the end. And feel free to let me know your thoughts as you’re seeing these screens if anything jumps out at you. Anything surprising.**

P4: Well, the thing that bothers me right now is that if I allow the VA to access it, it seems like it’s a very slow process but if I upload it, it's only at this point that I know that I can upload it. So, now I have to go back to my provider to upload that crap to be able to upload and I don’t know how many people actually have those resources to upload. 

**M: Yeah.**

P4: Because a lot of people operate their computer stuff nowadays off their phone. It’s just so much cheaper to utilize your phone with Wi-Fi than to constantly keep a laptop and your printer around the house.

**M: Yeah, sure. Yeah. So what would you choose at this step if you had this option shown here?**

P4: Well, I would upload them myself. I would do that. That's a step I'd do.

**M: Why would you do that?**

P4: Like I said, I don’t trust the VA to necessarily pull my records in a timely manner. I've got to be an advocate for myself.

**M: So you think uploading them would be faster?**

P4: Yes.

**M: Ok. Ok, so. This would actually be a little bit different if you chose to upload yourself.** 

*Continues to next page*

**M: What are your thoughts about this step?**

P4: Yeah, it works for me. 

**M: I'm sorry, what was that?**

P4: It’s ok with me. It hasn’t told me how to upload them yet.

**M: Ok. Would you have other documents to add?**

P4: Yes.

**M: Ok. What other documents would you want to add?**

P4: For this particular back, I’d like to be able to upload the MRI and the x-rays.

**M: ok, yeah, sure. And how are you thinking that may help? Or why would you want to upload them?**

P4: Well, because the MRIs would be definitive of the condition.

**M: Yeah, sure.**

P4: You want the MRIs and you want the radiology report.

**M: Yeah, sure. So I guess you just want to make sure they have enough evidence to substantiate your claim?**

P4: Yes

**M: Yeah. That makes sense. So you’d be able to do something like this?**

P4: Alright. Let’s go back though. That JPG thing. I don’t think that’s the right format for an MRI.

**M: Yeah it may be another format, it's just one example that we've shown in the prototype here. But it could be a PDF or, you know, some other document format.**

P4: Ok. 

**M: What format do you have your MRI in?**

P4: I’m drawing a blank right now. But, I know that its…they are large files and mine are typically put on a CD-ROM probably at 4-500 MB.

**M: Ok. Yeah, that would be interesting. That might be a bit of a challenge…**

P4: What's that?
**M: It might be a bit of a challenge to get it from that format in here. But, yeah I could see that. Ok.**

P4: And then, I guess it would depend. It would just depend because I know a lot of the medical raters have no medical background. 

**M: Yeah, so how do you think that impacts things if they have no medical background?**

P4: I don’t know how they’re able to do their job. I really have no clue. Right now under Donald trump they have instituted a program that all raters have to have an extra mandatory 20 hours a month of overtime to do some of the backlog work. Well it doesn’t take much of a mathematical individual to realize if each rater has to have 20 hours a month, then you're paying more in overtime a month than if you hired additional FTEs for the positions. 

**M: Hmm. Yeah.**

P4: I makes no sense to me whatsoever how they can rate when they don't have a medical background because how do you develop an idea how things link together. 

**M: Yeah, it makes sense to require some expertise. Yeah, alright.**

P4: I don't know if you're aware of this or not. 

**M: Of the overtime?**

P4: Of the whole process. I don't know what your background is besides working on this program. 

**M: Yeah, I mean, I'm fairly new to this myself. I have a lot of experience in software and web design. So, but I’m learning a lot about the VA. So if we went through the process like this. I know you mentioned you'd probably go to an advocate to help you help you out. I just want to get your thoughts on, this would be the next step here.**

*Continues to confirmation page*

**M: I just want to get your thoughts on this process after I've kind of shown it to you. What are your thoughts about doing this process online after seeing the steps of it vs going to a VSO or some other advocate?**

P4: I like the idea. I think it would be quite handy for younger soldiers. This part about your claim within 95 days is just frickin phenomenal. I mean, I’m not aware that the VA moves that fast, but that looks really pretty. 

**M: Yeah.** 

P4: I’m serious about that. I mean, I think…yeah. 

**M: Yeah, ok.**

P4: I don't know. For the current solider or the current Vet I think it would be useful.

**M: Ok, but for yourself?**

P4: How do I ensure that I’ve submitted?

**M: That's a good question. Lets’ see, I can scroll through the rest of this here. Do you see anything on here that would help you with that?**

P4: Well, that's a confirmation number, I guess.

**M: Well, how do you feel seeing that? Do you, you know, do you still have questions that its gone through? Or do you feel like it's all set? Yeah. What are your thoughts about that?**

P4: Yeah, I suppose it would be ok in my mind to go through. I guess I would certainly be marking my calendar at 95 days and wondering who I follow up with or who reaches out to me.

**M: Yeah. What do you think the follow up would be after this?**

P4: I don't know. Usually they will call you. But, uhh. But I don’t know.

**M: Alright. Ok. Great, well I think that’s about all we have. Thanks a lot for your time, Rick. I really appreciate you being really honest about your experience and it will certainly help us going forward. Do you have any other questions or thoughts for me at this point?**

P4: No. I, I want to go and look at this myself and really take a good evaluation of it. I have friends that I know that could benefit from this. 

**M: Yeah, so the site that we're working on is Vets.gov. You can show them this. So the portion that I showed you is not live on the site yet, but many other pieces are.**

P4: Ok. Alright.

***M: closing remarks.***
