# 526 Self-Service Claims for Increase 01-20-2018, 2:00 PM, Greg (P5)

[Session report](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/blob/master/products/disability/526ez/research/jan-2018/notes/p5-session-report.md)

## Session transcription

**Moderator (M): *Introduction to session (pre-recording)***

**M: Alright, so Greg, tell me a little about yourself. Tell me what branches of service were you in and when did you serve?**

Participant 5 (P5): Ok. I’m a 71-year-old male. It was the Vietnam era. It was briefly. I only served 2 years, 1968 to '69. 

**M: Ok.**

P5: I was in the artillery 

**M: Alright.**

P5: But that changed when I went to the first duty station. I walked in and they said well looking at your file, you have very high clerical scores. You’re going to be out ward clerk. Not ward clerk. But, uh, company clerk. So I spent the rest of the time I was in in administration. Company, or in my case battery, but company clerk for a couple of units and then I went to...oh I went to battalion and then the division. Then I went to the HQ company of the of the base and I served there in administrative positions. 

**M: Ok, great. So tell me when you, when did you first file for a disability claim?**

P5: Well I filed, oh it was years ago. It must have been around 2009. Maybe 2008. It was a long time ago. 

**M: Ok. Let me just get one thing set up here. Let me see if this works. I'm going to send you a request. So in order to operate the prototype from your computer, I'm going to send you a request to download the GTM. So, maybe you can try that. If that doesn't work, we can just walk through as you are right now through the browser. But, umm, why don't you give that a shot see if you can download the app so that you can click through on your end.**

P5: So I do click to desktop?

**M: Yeah, you want to...yeah. Give that a shot. If that doesn't work we can just talk through it as we are here.**

P5: Ok, well. I'm working on it. 

**M: Ok. So while that loads. So what prompted your initiation of a disability claim?**

P5: Oh I was having problems with…I’m distracted a little. I...

**M: I’m sorry about that.**

P5: *talks through GTM launch*

**M: Alright...Yeah, so tell me what, what's...I think you’re set up then. Tell me what prompted your initiation of the disability claim?**

*Silence*

**M: Greg, can you still hear me?**

P5: Oh, I was muted. 

**M: Oh, ok. There we go. Great.**

P5: So, I had had a period of illness that we thought was if you're ready. coccidioidomycosis. 

**M: Ok.**

P5: Commonly known as valley fever. 

**M: Oh.**

P5: And I struggled with that. Put me in the hospital 3 times for hypercalcemia. And I was just, I was sick. And wasn’t working. Couldn’t work. Did some was on disability...for social security disability and was about in that time that I filed for disability.

**M: Ok. Yeah. So what was, how did you apply for disability through the VA then?**

P5: Well, I was living in San Jose, California. There was a veterans support office in San Jose and I went through them and they helped me with filing the claim. 

**M: Ok great.**

P5: And so, you know, I didn’t have a lot of hands on, I didn’t fill out the form, you know. I got help with that from the people at the veterans support area. I don’t know if they were actually part of the VA. I don’t remember.

**M: So what are your thoughts about filing for benefits online?**

P5: Well, we go back to when I...50 years when I was in my early 20s. I actually started when I was 20 years old. The computer operator and. Then when I just kept learning and growing. I changed from a computer operator to a computer programmer then a computer analyst then I was a manager of development teams. 

**M: Ok.**

P5: And I continued with that. I stayed mostly in management for a decade or two. I don’t remember the exact dates. And then I went off to do some other things and went back into computing and had a consulting business and I was a computer consultant for several years. 

**M: So it sounds as if you have a very relevant background having dealt with computers for quite a while in your career.**

P5: I did, I did.

**M: Yeah. Ok. Great. So, I'm going to transition to talking about the prototype here. Let me make sure that you've got. Hold on a second.**

P5: The other...the big thing that happened in June of 2010 I was involved in a terrible automobile accident.

**M: Oh, ok.**

P5: In which I sustained a spinal cord injury.

**M: Oh.**

P5: And the...I had applied for and because I had gone through and applied for VA benefits I was transferred from a community hospital in Santa Clara, California to the VA hospital in Palo Alto, California. 

**M: Uh huh.**

P5: So I did a lot of rehab at the VA hospital in Palo Alto, California. 

**M: Ok, great.** 

P5: Once I was, once I was in the system I got classified as catastrophically disabled. At the time I had the spinal injury and a traumatic brain injury.

**M: Ok.**

P5: So I went to a multi-disciplinary section of the hospital and stayed there for three months. 

**M: Yeah, well. Yeah, that’s quite a lot. Ok, well, Greg, I really appreciate you sharing that background. I want to get your thoughts on the prototype here on the new section on vets.gov that would allow people to apply for their disability compensation or update their claims online. So are you able to move the mouse around on my on my screen screen?**

*Participant practices moving mouse on moderator's screen*

**M: Yeah, ok. Looks as though you've got it. So I'm going to ask you to think aloud as we go through this because we want to understand what your thoughts are as you're seeing each step and seeing how it might work for you. And please just use this prototype as if you were trying to do this on your own. Not everything is going to be clickable and it's a prototype so it's not live on the site yet. But I'll ask you to kind of go through it as naturally as you can and just share your thoughts on it with us. So I'm going to give you a scenario here. So just imagine that a condition you’ve gotten rated for has gotten worse and you think it's time to update your rating at the VA to account for it worsening. Show me what steps that you would take here. Go ahead and click around. You can drag to scroll.**

P5: Ok. So I...

**M: Yeah, if you want to scroll, you want to click on maybe the center on the screen than than just drag.**

P5: Click and drag?

**M: Yeah.**

P5: Ok. So we have sign into your account which I assume we don’t need to do in this prototype. 

**M: Right, um, well, what would you do if you were using it for real. Would you sign in first or would you go something else?**

P5: Well, I would sign in first. 

**M: And why would you sign in first?**

P5: Well by signing in you'd have things that area associated with you that might get be available and you can pull in. Now, if were talking about disability you might want to get have me sign in so that you can look at my records. Maybe see who my primary care was and other specialties. I have primary care but I also have specialists in a number of areas. For example, the spinal cord injury unity and I'm that, that problem that I have with where I thought I had coccidioidomycosis. I got cataracts, you know, so I had cataract surgery. The accident was led to me had incubation, you know, down through my throat. 

**M: Ok.**

P5: And I couldn’t talk for a while. It was very high, squeaky voice and so I actually had vocal cord surgery through the VA to help get my voice back.

**M: Ok.**

P5: You might want, I, you know, if that related to a disability claim, we're still starting about an application, you know, you might want to hook in to know that I had vocal vocal surgery, I'm sorry, or something. I’ve had eye surgery, I’ve had problems or diagnoses with all sorts of things. Kidney function and colonoscopy. Just all sorts of medical tests. So you’d want that information in the application. So I'd sign in so that it might link to the application.

**M: Yeah sure. Ok.**

P5: Yeah, that's my story and that's why I might sign into my account.

**M: Yeah, yeah. Thank you for that. So after you've signed in what would you do next?**

P5: Well, just scrolling down, we have the blue button for application. I assume that if I click that blue button the application process would start. 

**M: OK, you can go ahead and click it.**

P5: Ok. There we have vets.gov, apply for a disability, and we have step 1 select all that apply. I have filed a disability claim before. I might have new...So I would click that. 

**M: Yeah, what are your thoughts on the third option? The one all the way at the bottom there, I want to appeal the VA decision on my disability claim?**

P5: Ok, I want to appeal. 

**M: Yeah, what do you think that means?**

P5: Well that would go back to the claim I filed back in 2008-2009. 

**M: Ok.**

P5: So if I did that, I would come back and say my condition is much worse and I think that should that decision should be changed I get a greater disability than I did before. 

**M: Ok, so let me take you back a couple of steps. So I know you clicked on the second step there first. So...**

P5: (inaudible)

**M: Yeah, so in this scenario as I mentioned you feel like one of the conditions you've been rated for has gotten more severe and you want to update your rating at the VA. So which would you choose given that?**

P5: Well, at this point, I would probably click one or more of my rated conditions

**M: Ok.**

P5: Has gotten worse. 

**M: Ok.** 

P5: So we'd click that one. And (inaudible) there's a number to call and contact and that's just the bottom of the VA form. So there's the thing I would do now is continue. It kinda popped up a little (the prototype scrolled). So for me I would probably click MHV. 

**M: Ok. Why would you click MHV?**

P5: I use it all the time. 

**M: Ok.** 

P5: So I would log in. Ok. Well this isn’t me, so I would edit the identifying details. 

**M: Ok.**

P5: So I’ll edit that and I assume that I can click on…

**M: Yeah. You would be able to in the final thing but it’s not linked up yet.**

P5: Ok, you know I'd put in my name. VA file number—I have no idea. 

**M: Ok.**

P5: I would have to put my SSN in there because that's looks kind of like the format there. 

**M: Oh, so you’re saying you’d put your SSN in that VA file number field?**

P5: Yeah but I don't because I don’t know what my VA file number is. 

**M: Ok.**

P5: I assume they keep it by by social security number but I don’t know. 

**M: Ok.**

P5: So that would be intuitive for me. You know I'd try it and see if it took it. 

**M: Yeah.**

P5: And oops...and of course change the gender, change the DOB.

**M: Ok.**

P5: And then I would update that. So now we’d have my name and numbers there. 

**M: Yeah.**

P5: And we would return. Review veteran details. The standard… it’s not scrolling for me.

**M: There you go. I’ll scroll it a little bit.**

P5: Yeah, I don't know. Can I grab that and move it? No.

**M: Looks like there’s maybe just a delay here.**

P5: Ok, maybe. So things we should know about.

P5: *Reads content aloud, answers questions along the way* ...No...No...No...No. 

**M: Yeah. What do you think would happen if continued without selecting any one of those?**

P5: So, I'm sorry. It would be if I didn't select them?

**M: Yeah, yeah. What do you think would happen if you continued without selecting any of them?**

P5: I did. 

**M: Yeah. How do you...What impact do you think they would have, if anything?**

P5: I don’t know. I mean, I’m here on step 2 still. I'm reviewing veteran details. I don’t know what would happen if I said I was in danger of being homeless. 

**M: Ok. Yeah, that’s fine.**

P5: You know, I’m just doing this as if I were going through it not if I was testing or designing it. 

**M: Yeah, sure. That's fine. It's perfect.**

P5: Testing or designing I'd go through all the scenarios to see what we needed. 

**M: Yeah, alright.**

P5: So we're reviewing the veteran details. You know, I’m here in Utah, long ways from Providence, Rhode Island. So I’d edit the address. 

**M: Yeah, ok. So question here. If you were moving. Suppose...Say you were moving in the next month but you currently lived at that address in Providence, what would you do?**

P5: Well, if I knew where I was going to live in that month, you know, after that month, than I would probably change my primary address. 

**M: Ok.**

P5: So that it would associate me at that new address. 

**M: Ok.**

P5: But you know if I left and I was going to a temporary place until I found something permanent, I would probably not do the edit. 

**M: Ok.**

P5: Real life, when I moved from California where I was going to the Palo Alto VA here to where I am in Utah, I was, I lived with my sister-in-law for a little while and I didn't know what my permanent address was going to be. So in that case I would not edit it. 

**M: Ok. So if you did you know address where you were moving to you would edit that primary address.**

P5: Yes

**M: Would you expect that to update across all your VA records?**

P5: I would hope so. 

**M: Ok.**

P5: Yes if I knew if I edited this and, you know, I don’t want to go to every place to do it, you know, next time I go to the VA kiosk I’d expect this to be my primary address.  

**M: Yeah. Ok.**

P5: Ok. So, you want me to go through the edit. 

**M: No, we don’t need to, yeah, we don't need to do that right now.**

P5: So need to add a forwarding address? I’m not sure. 

**M: Yeah, what do you think that means?**

P5: That I’m not sure. Add a forwarding address from the primary address. Well I lived for 10 years in Arizona. No that’s not true. 7 years in Arizona. We had a lot of what we called snow birds that lived out there. People that had maybe had a place in or maybe their regular residence was in Minnesota and then buy a little place down in the dessert and when the snow really started to fly up in Minnesota they'd come down to Phoenix and live in their place. And you might use that forwarding address for the 3 months or 4 months that they stayed in Phoenix. 

**M: Ok.**

P5: So you would forward it just for a temporary period of time. 

**M: Yeah.**

P5: So that’s what I’d think the forwarding address is. 

**M: Alright. So let’s go ahead here to the next step.**

P5: So, we're going to add...Now, let me ask you a question before we do continue.  Am I... can I go up here? And...

**M: Yeah, what are you looking for?**

P5: Full screen.

**M: Oh yeah. I can make it wider here.**

P5: Ok. Ok, but the question is will this form that I'm filling out expand and the answer I that it will not. 

**M: Yeah, no this is for the mobile device.**

P5: Ok. I understand that. Ok, no problem. We'll work in the mobile app.

**M: Yeah.**

P5: And continue. 

**M: Yeah we don’t have to spend too much time here either.**

P5: So we have, we have military service. That’s good. We’ll continue. 

*Continues to next page*

P5: Payment method. Ok, checking account. I can edit that put in my account and routing number. 

**M: Yeah. Why do you think the VA is asking for that?**

P5: Well if they are going to pay you they'd want to do an ACH transfer rather than send you a check in the mail.

**M: Ok, yeah. Would you have any concerns about entering your banking information there?**

P5: No, I wouldn't. I’ve used ACH in business. 

**M: Ok.**

P5: We had a financial system that would pay you through the ACH and you didn't never got a check. 

**M: Sure. Yeah. Alright.**

P5: I used it as an employee and developed systems where we did that kind of stuff. 

**M: Ok.**

P5: So I'm not concerned about it, no. 

**M: Alright great. Yeah, go ahead then.**

P5: Now if I were a conspiracy theorist I might be troubled about giving that because if you have that it’s kind of easy to take it away as well as give it to you. 

**M: Sure. yeah.**

P5: So, I might be concerned. 

<a name="yourdisabilities">**M: Yeah. Ok. So for this scenario suppose these were the conditions that you have and your PTSD, at your most recent doctor's visit your doctor noted that your PTSD and Intervertebral Disc Syndrome have gotten worse. So what would you do here?**</a>

P5: Ok, so if I had PTSD that was worse I could click there. Whoops, scrolled a little too fast. Intervertebral disc syndrome. 

*Reads content aloud*

P5: Mine would be the spinal cord injury, SCI. And, you know, I would have in this section I would see. I'm pointing to it and you can't see that. It would show you know that I was at T4 so I would I guess the I mine wasn't going to get worse, but there are other debilitating factors that I might have because of this. 

**M: Ok. So...What would your next step be?**

P5: So can I click on here...

**M: Yeah.**

P5: And continue and just see. 

**M: Ok.**

P5: Yeah. 

**M: So the way the prototype is set up you’d actually have to click both of these before you'd continue. But it makes sense that you'd try to click on one first then continue.**

P5: Yeah that’s what I would do. 

**M: Ok.**

*Reads page content aloud*

P5: So, you know what I've checked the PTSD box for PTSD so we have worsening PTSD we'll continue. 

*Continues to next page*

P5: Scrolling too fast. I do all of my medical so it would be VA medical facility unless I use Veterans' Choice. Now there’s a question. I use Veterans' Choice sometimes. So is Veterans' Choice a private doctor? He’s not in a VA medical facility. He’s in a private practice but the VA pays him. 

**M: Ok. So what do you think you would choose for that?**

P5: I'm sorry?

**M: What do you think you would choose for that?**

P5: I don’t know. I would because I don’t know I would probably check both to see. 

**M: Ok. Yeah, that part is not linked in the prototype but we can just pretend that you clicked that.**

P5: Yeah, because I get treated both at a VA facility and my private doctor. 

**M: Ok.**

P5: The example is that after the accident I have chronic pain and I’m working through the pain clinic within the VA. And they say, well, what about some alternative pain medications, a more holistic view. So I’m actually doing Veterans' Choice holistic pain management. And I go to see a private physician. You know, what do I do? So I would probably try to click both. 

**M: Ok, so Greg, suppose you get a phone call at this point and you had to step away. What do you expect to happen to this application?**

P5: Well, I know I would click save and finish later. 

**M: Ok.**

P5: Do you want me to try that?

**M: No, we don't have to do that. I don't think it's (inaudible). I was just curious about that. So go ahead.** 

P5: Yeah. 

**M: Ok.**

P5: Yeah, on a mobile app, you’d be hitting that with your finger. 

**M: Ok.**

P5: So would I make that bigger, maybe I would.

**M: Ok.**

P5: So it's easier to hit with your finger...PTSD. Which medical facilities were you treated since you received...? Ok, so I’d just go here. Now here’s a good question. It just came up when I clicked on it. Can I change the name of the VA facility?

**M: Yeah you would be able to on the live site.**

P5: Ok. Is, you know because part of the treatment would be at Palo Alto and then continuing from Salt Lake City VA.

**M: Yeah.**

P5: Even the local CBOC.

**M: So yeah. What would you do with this form then if you wanted to enter in your information for your treatment history that you mentioned?**

P5: First treatment. Well I'd just estimate when it started. It was long enough ago that I’m not sure. 

**M: So what would you put in for the name of the VA medical facility?**

P5: Oh for the VA medical facility? I’d put Salt Lake City right now. 

**M: Ok.**

P5: The Salt Lake City medical center. VA medical center. I would not put in the CBOC. 

**M: Ok.**

P5: Do you even know what a CBOC is?

**M: No, I don't.**

P5: Community-based outpatient clinic. 

**M: Ok.**

P5: In my case, Salt Lake City is where the actual VA hospital is. But in Ogden, there is a community-based clinic. And the community-based clinic is where my primary care is. But for any specialty care I go to the Salt Lake one. So I would put in Salt Lake there. But that would be. You know an interesting...I'm not, I'm not sure if I put it in, will it I assume it will validate against a table and listing facilities. 

**M: Yeah, so what would you do next?**

P5: And then...well I'd put in what I know about first and then maybe last (inaudible). And I would, I would wonder why I'd had to put this in because it was VA and you guys have the records so...Why do I have to put it in?

**M: Yeah.**

P5: Add another facility. I might do that because I moved from the Palo Alto VA to the Salt Lake City VA so I might have another facility to put in so I had both of them and have the treatment dates for each facility. 

**M: Yeah, ok.**

P5: So I might do that. 

**M: Yeah,. Alright. So, we only have a few minutes left here so I'll let you go ahead and we'll go through the rest of it fairly quickly.**

P5: (Inaudible)

**M: How are you feeling at this stage? If you were going through this application process, how would you be feeling at this point?**

P5: Well, I'd just...I just talked about if you had my records because it's all VA, why do I have to go through this...this process that I just recently gone through. You know the service dates, well, the VA knows when I served and talking about when did you first have this treatment for this disability, you know when I did. 

**M: Yeah.**

P5: Unless it was a private doctor. But to go through it for the stuff I just said, oh I'm (inaudible) 

*Participant's alarm goes off in background*

P5: Hey, Google, Stop. It was an alarm. I have Google Home. 

**M: Oh, nice. Alright, so let me take you through the rest of the few steps here.**

*Continues to next page*

P5: Apply, ok. Retrieve medical records? Yes, I would like them. 

**M: And why would you want to do that?**

P5: Well, the, any Veterans' Choice should have an agreement, but I'm nervous about that so I would say yes. 

**M: What is it that you're nervous about?**

P5: Well, that they know how often I went to see them. What their records were about my seeing them. They upload that I'd give them. I'd say yes, no I wouldn't say I would upload them because I don't have them. 

**M: Ok.**

P5: You know, I might like to have a calendar that says I went there but nothing specific about it. 

**M: Yeah, alright.**

P5: Ok. 

**M: Yeah, I'm going to take you through the rest pretty quickly.**

P5: The disc...same kinds of things. 

**M: Yeah.**

*Continues to next page*

**M: So you'd see a step like this near the end. And then this.**

P5: I missed a checkbox, what did I say? What was it?

**M: That was just...Yeah, you were accepting the privacy policy.**

P5: Oh ok, that’s good. 

**M: So, tell me what you’re seeing here.**

P5: Ok. I see claim received. So it says claim received and normally processed within 95 days. Well, in Palo Alto you might question that. Their disability office in Oakland is way backed up. But, print your page for your records. If this is mobile, I don’t think you could click on that. 

**M: Yeah, that's a good point.**

P5: I don’t know that many mobile users have a printer that is assigned with a print queue that they could upload it and print it at the from the queue on their personal computer. 

**M: Yeah.**

P5: You know that’s great for a PC, but mobile I have a question about that. 

**M: Yeah.**

P5: Ok, so now we've got the disability claim, it's got the conditions, it has a confirmation number. I would think that’s pretty dog-gone important, that information number. 

**M: Yeah.**

P5: Or the confirmation number. 

**M: Sure.**

P5: So I would want to save that somehow. 

**M: Ok.**

P5: Oh, the print this page for your records. The other thought is, could you do an email?

**M: Yeah that’s a good suggestion.**

P5: You know, on my phone if I send an email from it to myself than I could print it. 

**M: Yeah.**

P5: And the same thing with the confirmation number. Now my question is, if I print the page for my records, will my confirmation number appear on that page because the please print page is above the disability claim information.

**M: Oh. Yeah.**

P5: So I might move, what I would like to see is that print this page go down underneath the disability description of the form with the number and the so on. 

**M: Ok.**

P5: I'd like that to appear on the page. 

**M: Yeah, that's really helpful. So Greg, let’s see. Yeah, I just want to wrap up pretty quickly here. But, thank you so much for all your feedback. It's been really helpful.**

P5: You're very welcome. 

**M: Yeah. What are your thoughts overall on the process?**

P5: I think it would be great and, you know, to have access and the ability to do the some of these things remotely whether it's with a desktop computer which I only do for at MHV, but to expand that out to mobile use would be great. 

**M: Ok. Yeah. How did this, how did this line up with your expectations when you started the process? Or when you started looking at this prototype?**

P5: Well I thought as I said before that if I have, if I do it through the VA you’d have that information. So don’t ask me for it again. 

**M: Yeah, yeah. That makes sense.**

P5: You know, they know when I served.

**M: Yep.**

P5: So don’t ask me that. 

**M: Yeah sure.**

P5: Just make sure that you pull that in so I would take that section about service information right out of there. 

**M: Ok. Yeah.**

P5: And some of the other information about conditions and treatments, you know, pull it in from the VA records if you can. 

**M: Sure. Ok, well, so this is this section is not live on this site yet, but it will be sometime in the near future on vets.gov.**

P5: Vets.gov, ok.

**M: Yeah, ok. There is some...a number of other benefits you can apply for are up there. So you can maybe take a look at that. there may be helpful resources for you there.**

P5: Ok. 

**M: But, do you have any other questions for me at this point?**

P5: I’ve had trouble getting into vets.gov, but that’s another problem all together. 

**M: Ok.**

P5: That’s why I use MHV all the time. 

**M: There is a helpline on here, so feel free to reach out to them if you're trying to get on to vets.gov and you have problems.**

P5: Ok.

***M: Closing remarks***
