# 526 Self-Service Claims for Increase 01-20-2018, 11:00 AM, Temi (P3)

[Session report](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/blob/master/products/disability/526ez/research/jan-2018/notes/p3-session-report.md)

## Session transcription

**Moderator (M): *Introduction to session (pre-recording)***

**M: So first off yeah tell me a little bit about your background, what branches of service were you in and when did you separate?**

Participant 3 (P3): What branch of service? I was in the Army. 

**M: Ok. And when did you serve?**

P3: It was in 2014. 

**M: Ok.**

P3: It was the last time I pretty much served. 

**M: Ok, did you have multiple periods of service when you say it was the last time you served?**

P3: Oh, no no. I'm saying The last time I was actually deployed was in 2014. I haven’t been anywhere since then. 

**M: Ok. Where do you live now?**

P3: I'm sorry you sound a little [inaudible]. You said where do I work now?

**M: Oh, where do you live now?**

P3: I live in Washington, DC. 

**M: Fantastic. well, You’re very close to many of my teammates. How do you like Washington?**

P3: I love Washington DC. It’s a city. There’s a lot of people moving into Washington, DC so there’s a lot of renovation being done in the buildings and they're having like new business that are coming up pretty soon. So um...and More integrated and more inclusion. I love what I see.

**M: Yeah, yeah That’s great.**

P3: And

**M: Yeah What was that?**

P3: I’m sorry, I didn’t hear what you said

**M: On no just go ahead I was it sounded like you started to say something else.**

P3: Ok. (inaudible). Hello? I’m sorry I didn’t hear what you said too clearly, can you say it more time please?

**M: Yeah I was just curious it sounded as if you were saying something else and then um...**

P3: Oh no no, Just about Washington, dc. It’s a city, I’ve been here pretty much all of my life. I live in NE so  I began up when I first moved to DC I was in NW and now I'm in NE Washington, dc. I love it. There’s a lot of renovation being done. And it's a pretty suburban area pretty much. Housing and suburban.

**M: Yeah, ok, Great, I was just visiting there last week. I know there’s always a lot of people coming in and out. So um... **

P3: Yeah, it’s a business area. That’s what I can say about Washington dc. Especially nowadays. 

**M: Yeah.**

P3: And then um...I live close to Montgomery county, close to Virginia. Business-friendly areas too as well, you know. I think you have opportunity if you have a business you can open one, establish one in the city or Montgomery county easily. 

**M: Yeah, sure. Ok, Great, so let’s talk about disability claims. Tell me about when you first filed for a disability claim. How long after your separation was that and what prompted it?**

P3: Sorry, how long was my... how long did I file?

**M: Yes, how long after your separation did you first file for a disability?**

P3: It was about a year after. Not a exactly year, a few months after. 

**M: Yeah, ok. **

P3: probably about 6 months after. 

**M: Yeah and what prompted you to file for it?**

P3: I found out that I was eligible

**M: Ok, yeah. **

P3: For benefits, yeah. 

**M: Of course might as well. **

P3: *laughter*

**M: Yeah. So how did you learn about the process?**

P3: I also have you know they give you information through the website, you can do it through the website to file. I had got advice through a couple of my peers that work with me who showed me how to do it to go about the website and how to sign up for it. 

**M: When you say the website which website were you using?**

P3: It was...I can’t remember. It was just to sign up for the claims, the disability claims. I don't know the exact name. I think it was a veterans website. I probably have it on my computer. I don't know the exact name. But it was a government website, I think. It was a government website.

**M: Ok. Yeah, there's VA.gov, Vets.gov...**

P3: Yes, do I have to disclose which one I did? Or...

**M: I mean you don't have to but…*

P3: *laughter*

**M: Just curious.**

P3: Alright

**M: If you don't remember that's fine. And...**

P3: Ok. 

**M: Where do you typically go for information about VA benefits?. Oh  Actually does eBenefits ring a bell? do you know if it’s eBenefits?**

P3: Umm...I have a lot of pamphlets at my house, a lot of information from the pamphlets. I get emails all the time about information about disability claims. I do my own research, look online, check out things, check out information on the government website. Through the Virginia website...

**M: Ok. That’s fine. We’re just trying to understand what people think of the various sites that they've used. So It’s no big deal.**

P3: Ok. 

**M: We don’t need to get into your specifics or anything like that. **

P3: Ok *laughter*

**M: We’re trying to understand themes and what’s resonating for people and what's challenging for people so we can improve our own sites. We're just trying to help folks apply for benefits. **

P3: I see.

**M: Yeah, yeah. **

P3: I would say with the websites it’s very lengthy, it’s kind of lengthy for me.

**M: Ok, yeah.**

P3: All the information you have to put in, then you have to put it in and sometimes it will say that it didn't register right away so I have to re-enter it or, you know, umm. I was just on there the other day I tried to [inaudible] my email was already being used and I didn’t know if I had to reset it. I didn't know what was going on so I had to reset the whole password, I mean the whole email entry. Because I didn’t understand why it was saying that it was already being used. I was trying to , you know, apply for other things and I didn't understand why it wasn’t linking together. If I get off the website and I hadn’t been on it in a while I was stuck where it would link back up. I don’t know if it expires or something maybe? If you haven't been on the site in a while? And they want you to reset your password or something maybe?

**M: Yeah. **

P3: I know I tried to log back in but it said it was already being used. And I pretty much had to, I just redid it all over. 

**M: Yeah. Ok. Yeah, it sounds like a hassle. So how long did it take you to submit, to prepare and submit your claim online when you did it the first time.**

P3: I’m still in the process of... I’m kind of back and forth on my claim because of the information that I’m getting. So I was misinformed about something. So I wasn't...I hadn’t actually went through finished filing my claim. It's kind of just sitting there. You said how long did it take for me? I took uhh.. probably like uh...I spent about an hour on it when I first started just because I like to read every little thing. *laughter*

**M: Yeah, sure.**

P3: To make sure that I’m doing the right thing. I don’t want to make mistakes with the government, so. 

**M: Yes.**

P3: And I want to make sure that I’m eligible for the right things because you know you  hear things than you read something else so I just wanted to make sure I was accurate. 

**M: Yeah, right.**

P3: Yeah, (inaudible) information.

**M: Yeah, ok. And do you have anyone helping you with your claim initially, like any friends or family or veteran organizations?**

P3: I have one vet that is helping me. She knows a little more about it than I do. She actually filed her own claim. Bust she's the one that kind of knows more about how to go about the process, so. 

**M: Ok. **

P3: (inaudible)

**M: Alright. Yeah, so, When you say you like to read everything and get everything correct, you know, what's uh, I’m just kind of wondering what are you trying to avoid with that? What kinds of problems are you trying to avoid with that?**

P3: Just making any mistakes. Putting in the wrong mistakes. Or putting in the wrong information or too much information. It's just trying to avoid those mistakes. I mean, I’m like that with everything. 

**M: I mean, I am as well, so.**

P3: You know, so just making sure for accuracy because I know there are changes in my own personal life, so I had to change my last name and sort of some other things that change. You, know. I just have to make sure that, you know, that as I’m pregnant that sometimes I do get forgetful and that I, I forget something and I'm taking my time now.

**M: Well, fantastic. That’s great, well, congratulations.**

P3: Thank you.

**M: Alright so it sounds as though you’ve applied but your claim is still in process? Is that right? Or help me understand what the status of your claim is at this point.**

P3: I was in the process of starting one, I just did a bunch of paperwork. That's what it is. 

**M: Ok.**

P3: Because I didn't have I didn’t think I had I wanted to be helped, I thought I was eligible, then once I got some more information I think I wasn't as eligible as I thought I was. I just left it in there.

**M: Ok, I see. Alright, great. Well thanks for all that. So, let’s shift gears and talk about the new section of the site we're working on. SO let me do a couple of things. I’m going to share my screen with you here. Yep, One second, alright. And let me make sure. I want to give you keyboard and mouse control. Oh, right. Are you um...it looks as though you're dialed in by phone, right?**

P3: Yes, I am. 

**M: Ok, are you able to get to a computer or?**

P3: Yes I can.

**M: Yeah, if you can do that please do so you can see what I’m showing on screen.**

P3: Ok. 

*P3 getting set up on GTM*

P3: Um... Ok. 

**M: So while you’re getting that set up, the thing that I’m going to show you is a new section of Vets.gov. So I’ll share the screen and if we can I’ll give you keyboard and mouse control so that you can operate the prototype on your end. And um navigate through this prototype of the site.**

P3: Ok. When I go to the meeting, I enter in my ID, as well, right?

**M: So you may see a meeting ID and...**

P3: Yes.

**M: Yeah, so you should have that in the email from Kristin.**

P3: Alright. 

**M: And if you’re having a hard time finding it I can give you the ID as well.**

P3: Oh it's starting. Enter in your full name...I hear something… I think I hear you, oh I hear myself!

**M: You can hang up the phone if you’re connected through the computer, as long as you have a microphone on there.**

P3: Ok. 

**M: Alright, Temi. So, it seems that...do you have a  mic on your computer? Because I don't think that we can hear you anymore. You may need to turn on a microphone or if you need to, you can change the GTM setting to use a phone and dial back in. Sorry about that.**

P3: Oh there we go. Alright, sorry, I didn't know that I had turned the speaker off. 

**M: That's ok., great. Sounds good.**

P3: Sorry about that.

**M: So let me see. Are you able to see my screen Temi?**

P3: Yes I do see your screen, I see your mouse moving. 

**M: Alright.**

P3: I see apply for disability compensation. 

**M: Yeah, it looks as though...Did you join through the browser or what kind of device are you on?**

P3: I’m on the app. It gave me the app, the application. 

**M: Are you on a mobile device or a laptop?**

P3: This one's a mobile device. It said you can join on a smartphone so I took one of my other smartphones and used it. 

**M: Ok. alright. Yeah that’s fine so I’ll just walk you through here.**

P3: Ok. 

**M: So this is not a live section of the site yet, it’s a prototype. But I just want to get your reactions here. I’m going to ask you think aloud as you see the screen, it just really helps us understand what you're seeing at each step as you see it. I’m going to give you a scenario which is a little bit different than your scenario here. Suppose you've completed your claim, you're getting disability compensation, but you're feeling as though a condition you've been rated for has become more sever and you think it's time to update your rating at the VA to account for it worsening. So I'm going to ask you to show me what steps you would take here to do that. And umm, let me know if you'd like me to scroll or click on anything and I'll do that from my end.**

P3: And You said if I’m trying to apply for? Could you repeat that?  I'm sorry the last part, I couldn’t hear you too well.

**M: Yeah, no problem. So you are you have been receiving disability compensation, your initial claim has gone through, you're receiving it. You feel as though your initial claim that you’ve been rated for has become more severe and you think it's time to update your rating at the VA to account for it worsening.**

P3: So, ok, so you want me to see if I can apply for extend compensation or so?

**M: Yeah.**

P3: Ok, uhh. Let's go to the...

*Scrolls. Reads content aloud*

P3: I would go to disability compensation, apply for compensation. And I need to go back for more. I would sign into my account.

**M: Ok, yeah, so Why would you sign in first?**

P3: Because it's pretty much that I've already started my application and I want to ask for an extension or a renewal or so. So I'm thinking that I would have to sign back into my account because I already started the process so I just need to find out how I can expand the process I'm assuming. 

**M: Ok, so this is like you would be able to pick up where you left off?**

P3: Yeah, like I'm picking up where I left off. So, I don't want to start a new application do I?

**M: Yeah, So the scenario here is that you you’ve successfully submitted your initial application. And you're getting compensation for it. And you, one of your conditions has become more severe so you want to go back and update your rating at the VA to account for that. So…**

P3: I think I would…

*Reads content aloud*

P3: I think I would, I would sign back into my account but I don’t know exactly what I’d do after that. 

**M: Yeah, that's fine. Have you been to, actually let me pull up another view of this site. Have you been to vets.gov before? does that ring a bell?

P3: Yes I have.

**M: Ok.**

P3: Yes. 

**M: Alright.**

P3: Yeah, I've seen this one. 

**M: And you have an account there?**

P3: Yes. Uh this one, yeah I think I do. I get emails from them all the time, so I think I do. 

**M: Ok. **

P3: Alright, alright. hold up, wait. Yeah I do. Access pen, code...No no this is not the information about this. No I haven't signed up. I’m not sure exactly, this is the VA website. 

**M: Yeah, there's also VA.gov which is...**

P3: Yeah, that's the site that I go to. 

**M: Alright.**

P3: Yeah.

**M: Let's see... So once you’ve signed in, where would you go next?**

P3: For, I would go for, to I’d go for to apply, I guess? (Inaudible) 

**M: Apply? Ok. **

P3: You know what, I’d go to help, even though it’s probably not going to really help me. But I would go to help and to see if there’s any information about how I could do it, you know, a link or something. And then I'd type in “extension on benefits” to see if it would link me to something else, kind of like a library or something. I'm hoping. 

**M: Sure. Alright, that makes sense. So let me take you to the next step here. So Once you get to where you want to go, you might see a step like this, so tell me what do you think these options mean?**

P3: I have never filed a disability claim… I have new or worsening conditions to add to my rating. Oh ok... The second one. 

**M: Ok. What do you think these other options mean?**

P3: Umm the other one...The first ones like I’ve never filed it ever, ever before. This would be my first time. Which would have been my first time. I never filed before, yeah. So I would say I never filed before because it's my first time. I want to appeal the decision on my disability. 

**M: Yeah I'm trying to.**

P3: When I say I want to appeal it, I could also use that too. Well, no, appeal is like you got denied and you want an appeal, you know? Right?

M: Hmm, yeah ok. 

P3: Is that right or is it the other one?

**M: Umm, What do you think that means?**

P3: When I first saw it I was thinking, ok I want to appeal by change, make a change.

**M: Yeah.**

P3: I didn't think of it as I got denied and I want to appeal. I was thinking of it as a change, I want to make change on my existing account. 

**M: Yeah.**

P3: My existing claim, you know what I mean?

**M: Yeah, yeah.**

P3:  I want to appeal, because I want to make a change when it comes...The way its worded here “on my disability claim” and I want to do it, yeah so it makes it seem like I want to make changes on there. 

**M: Yeah, so I know we talked through what you would do initially. So after thinking and looking over these again, which one would you go to for this scenario?**

P3: I would go to I have a new or worsening because that’s what you were saying. Yes. 

**M: Umm and then what do you think about these next steps here?**

*Reads options*

P3: I have new conditions to my rated disabilities. 

**M: Ok.**

*Reads next page*

P3: eBenefits, what’s eBenefits? Ok.

**M: Yeah, what are your thoughts on that?**

P3: I would go straight to "because you are adding new conditions you will apply using eBenefits". Ok, so I started there, I got to benefits. 

**M: Ok.**

P3: It's very simple. 

**M: Sorry, what was that?**

P3: It’s very simple.

**M: Ok.**

P3: it’s not hard to understand.

**M: Alright. How do you feel about that, Going to eBenefits from here?**

P3: I don’t know where I’m going to go and I hope it's not a big screen to fill out some more paperwork but I’m thinking it’s going to be a fast process because how they highlighted new or worsening conditions, it means that they already know me. And umm, and Umm, in my mind I’m thinking that you already know me and I'm adding something new so I don’t have to fill out a bunch of paperwork (inaudible) I just have to fill out the basics, anything that's new. Like anything like if I had to add one more thing I just have to add one more thing. I don't have to fill out my name, address, you know. So that's what I was thinking. 

**M: That sounds helpful. Ok. Let me actually take you down a different path here. So if one of your rated conditions had gotten worse you’d go to something like this.**

*Loads login options page*

**M: So why do you think? Yeah. Yeah, I know you mentioned that you would sign in before, but if you hadn’t signed in, you’d see something like this. So, if you clicked sign in initially, you’d see one of these 3 options. What are your thoughts on these 3?**

*Reads options aloud*

P3: I don’t know which one to sign in with. Is one more important than the other? I'm not sure. 

**M: Yeah, do you have an account with any of these that you know of?**

P3: I haven't started an account. I think... No, I haven't. I have the MHV. I have that one, but I can never remember my login. I haven’t been there in a minute. I don't think I have a site, I don't have insurance with them. 

**M: Ok.**

P3: I don't have a claim with them. But I have checked out their site and I am interested in some filing for something into here with my health vet. So, should I just go straight to that?

**M: Yeah. Is that the one you would do first? Or which one would you?**

P3: Yeah, I would sign into MHV. yeah... *yawns* sorry, excuse me. 

*Reads content aloud*

P3: Yeah, I would do the sign in with MHV because I’m claiming something health-wise or something or disability. I see the...don’t understand the difference. 

*Reads content aloud*

**M: Yeah.**

P3: They should all have the same…. Does it matter which one you sign into? Because I would go to the health one. 

**M: Yeah, ok. Yeah.**

P3: I don’t see the difference. 

**M: Yeah, that's good. That’s good to know. I don’t think it makes a difference as long as you are able to use one of them to answer your question.**

P3: Yeah...

**M: Yeah, so you’d click MHV, ok. Then it would prompt you for your login details and then you'd get here.**

*Continue to logged in state*

P3: Yep. Ok.

**M: So is this what you'd expect to see after you've logged in?**

P3: Yep. 

*Reads content aloud*

**M: What's that?**

P3: Oh no, I thought I could move it.

**M: No, I'm just going to have to talk you through. but where were you trying to click or what were you trying to do?**

P3: Oh just pressing continue, just to see what loads on the next screen. 

**M: Ok, gotcha.**

*Continues to next page*

*Reads content aloud*

P3: I just did a study on one of these the other day. I see. So do you have to say which one? 

**M: Well, what does it look? Does it look like you have to choose which one? What would you do at this step? You don’t have to go into your personal details, but if one of them applies to you what do you think would happen?**

P3: You’d just go ahead and click on one of them.

**M: Ok. And what do you think would happen if you chose one and hit continue.**

P3: I'd press one and it would continue onto the next screen. (Inaudible)

**M: What’s that?**

P3: Yeah, I would just choose one of them and go over to the next screen.

*Reads content aloud*

**M: Yeah, umm...Why do you think the VA is asking about these questions?**

P3: It’s part of the disability claim, you know it's part of your benefits. They need to know what's going on. They need to have kind of like a bio of you know what's going on with you so that they can be able to assimilate how much they want to give you, I guess. Did I say that right?

**M: Yeah, ok. Alright.**

P3: (Inaudible) I’m not sure if they go according to what the subject is, but these are the things that qualifies for disability I believe so they want to know what category you fall under. 

**M: So if none of them applied to you, what would you do? Or what would your thoughts be about that?**

P3: Well that's the thing. If they don't apply to me, if that's not exactly what I'm looking for then that’s why I was like um... it says save it for later. So, I saved it for later. But if it's not exactly what I would go to. Where’s the help section? Need help down here.

**M: There's this up there and there’s... yeah.**

P3: Oh. 

*Reads content aloud*

P3: Technical, that’s IT. No. I would have to call this 1800 number vets, the veterans number because it’s like, it could fall under one of these categories could have other categories underneath it. So if it's not exactly that I would choose whatever it’s similar to. 

**M: Ok, alright. so I’ll just take you to the next step here.**

*Continues to next page*

**M: alright, so, what would you do if you’re moving soon and you saw a step like this?**

P3: You said, I'm sorry. You said what would I do if I was moving? 

**M: Yeah, Say you’re moving in the next month. What would you do with this step?**

P3: Oh, right here? I would edit. Go down to edit, the edit button. you know, everything’s there. I would change the street address, city, state, zip code, keep the number the same, keep the email the same. Press update then it would, you know, redo. 

*Reads forwarding address checkbox*

**M: Yeah, what do you think that means?**

P3: Forwarding address. In case you can't send it to one address, you can send it to another?

**M: Ok.**

P3: I'm thinking a forwarding address. 

**M: Yeah.**

P3: It would have to be that. If you can't receive it there, you can receive it somewhere else. 

**M: Yeah, ok. Right. So let me take you to the next step. We won't spend too much time on this, but...So at this point, why do you think the VA is asking about a payment method here?**

P3: About payment method?

**M: Yeah, about this.**

*Reads content aloud*

P3: It's telling you...it's tell me that I can use 

*Reads content aloud*

P3: Uhh...Yeah. They're giving me my bank account information to say me that they pay me through my bank account. Is that what it is?

**M: Is that what it looks like to you?**

P3: Yeah, I think that’s what it is. I never received payment. yeah, so this is an account. It’s to  say that this is your information from your bank that they put the payments in.

M: Ok. Would you have any concerns about entering your bank account information?

P3: I’m sorry can you say that one more time?

M: Would you have any concerns about putting in your bank account information here?

P3: Uhh yes, um, only because there’s been a situation just recently with overcharges on my account. And it happened to a lot of people with Capital One. They were experiencing double charges and stuff like that. And I felt like I just put my account into the system the other day and it became faulty the next day. They weren’t related, but it just felt like That was my warning. You can't always give out your bank information online. And you never know, you know, what’s going on if you’re not checking on it every 5 mins. You know and then when I wanted to use it, it was reflecting I had no money in my account then I called my bank and they said they were having at Capital One problem where they were experiencing double charges for people's accounts. You know, I thought it was just Veteran's accounts. You know I don’t know. everything’s just so weird and tricky nowadays in my mind. So I just try to be very careful. It's just the way things are nowadays, you know. 

M: Yeah. What would you do if you came to a step like this and say it was asking you for bank information?

P3: I would put it in, of course I’d put it in. 

M: Ok. 

P3: I’d have to trust my of course, my government account. (Inaudible) I'd try to put it in my other account, not the main account I use all the time. 

M: Oh ok so you have like another bank account that is not as vulnerable?


P3:  Yeah. 


*Continues to next page*


<a name="yourdisabilities">M: Next step here. So with this, in this scenario, Suppose that you’ve been rated for these things before and suppose that your PTSD and intervertebral disc syndrome has gotten worse. So what would you do here?</a>

P3: I did have the Rhinitis. which you can hear it. That's why my nose is doing this now 

M: Oh no. 

P3: But umm.... I would have to check out for these things which one I want. OK, so I do have the rhinitis, the allergic reaction. Where my nose, it's a reaction in your sinuses where you sound like a rhino. That’s what I was told. That's what I mean. 

M: Yeah. That’s a good way to remember it. Alright, so what would you do at this step. 

P3: I would press for that one. A lot of people you’re experiencing PTSD, but I don’t know. It’s a high disability rating. Mine’s is not really all that high. Because you can get it naturally. I think a lot of people aim for that because they don’t know if they are experiencing that or not. 

M: Yeah, ok. So In this scenario, your PTSD has gotten worse and your intervertebral disc syndrome has gotten worse and that's why you're coming here. SO given that, what would you do at this step. 

P3: I would go ahead and click on the PSTD.

M: Umm...and then what?

P3: and then scroll down and then press continue. 

M: Ok, alright. So then you’d just kind of go through that for PTSD. 


P3: Ok.



M: So this is actually set up to go through both at once. I'm just going to select both of those for you, but I'll note that you'd go through the PTSD first. So, I just want to go a time check. I know we were scheduled up until a couple of minutes ago. Do you need to get going or do you have like another 10 minutes or so, so that we can go through a couple of others?

P3: I can give you another 10 minutes but I do have to leave by 12. 


M: Ok, sure. I can go through a couple other things quickly. Alright. So here, do you think you have all the information, well tell me about what this step is saying.

*Reads content aloud*

P3: Since your rating _ what? Why is it worded like that? 

*Continues reading page aloud*

P3: What are buddy statements? I mean?

**M: Yeah, what does that sound like to you?**

P3: Buddy statements… I don’t think I’m familiar with that terminology. 

**M: Ok.**

P3: Buddy statements. See like I said, I haven’t even finished the process yet. What exactly are the buddy statements?

**M: Yeah, to tell you what we mean by that, that's like Some documentation from a peer who can attest to your condition.**

P3: Ok, because I don’t know. I’m thinking those are just medical papers. 

**M: Ok.**

P3: All of my medical... But it says you will not need to add VA medical records. But if all you have is VA medical records then you can’t add them?

**M: Yeah, I see how that could be a bit misleading. Ok, so If you were going through this scenario, do you think you’d have everything you'd need to proceed.**

P3: I hope so, I hope so. But I would give you my records and you say don’t add them. So...

**M: Yeah, ok.**

P3: I don't know. So I'd just save it for later and ask more questions because I don't...or do you already have them?

**M: That’s a good question. the VA records you mean?**

P3: Yes. Is that why you don't need them? Because then you're not going to get back to me. if you don’t my records and I don't have access then you don't even know who I am. Who's going to process this?

**M: Yeah, ok. Let me take you through the following steps next.**

*Continues to next step*

P3: Ok if you have like a 70% rating do you know your rating. 

*Reads content aloud*

P3: Where have you been treated? I haven’t been treated yet. Yeah, because I’m trying to get treatment for it, but I haven’t been yet. 

**M: Yeah, in this scenario, it would be, suppose this is something that you have been treated for.**

P3: Yeah I have been treated so I’d say VA medical facility where you've been treated. 

*Reads content aloud*

P3: Do you want facilities or do you just want one? Because which medical facilities? if I had more than one? 

**M: Yeah.**

P3: Do you want me to put one? or both? 

**M: That's a good point. What does it look like you can do here?**

P3: It looks like you only have space for one. But you asked me which facilities because I need you to have my records. so I will just squeeze it all in there.

**M: Yeah. Ok.**

P3: I'd put a slash or a comma or something. 

**M: I see.**

P3: You know, so you won't think it's all one word. 

**M: Yeah.**

P3: You know. 

**M: Yeah.**

P3: I just need a little bit more space. I know some people go to one, but maybe I’ve been to 2. So I just want some space there to put 2, that's all. 

**M: Alright, so Let me speed through here. I know you need to get going soon.**

*Continues to review page*

**M: I'm just going to skip through this and we can get to the end. Ok. What do you think this is?**

P3: Ok, Review application. 

*Reads content aloud*

P3: I'd want to look at my details first only to see what they have because you didn't get my medical records, papers, I'd want to see what they have. 

**M: Ok.**

P3: Because if this isn't done right I'm going to have to redo it. 

**M: Alright, and let me just speed along.**

*Continues to confirmation page*

**M: And tell me what you’re seeing here.**

P3: Ok, so your claim is ready for review by VA. 

*Reads content aloud*

P3: Yeah, forever. 

*Continues reading page aloud*

P3: why doesn’t it have a, I know it says 95 days but I wish it gave me an estimate of when it will be received, but that would have be nice. I know my submission date is the 18th so I'd just count 95 days from the 18th to hope to be spoken to. (Inaudible) I hope it doesn't take 95 days. 

**M: Ok. **

P3: Alright. 

**M: So what are your thoughts on this process?**

*Reads content aloud*

P3: It would be nice if they had an expiration date.

**M: What do you mean?**

P3: Meaning that your claim will be filed no later than this date, you know. Submission date is seen before but you know because 95 days can be 100 days, 101 days because you're not going to count 95 days. nobody will. *Laughs* Some people will, but 95 days, I'm not sure if that's the weekend or just 95 business days. 

**M: Yeah. **

P3: Yeah, so. 

**M: What do you think will happen after the expiration date?**

P3: I would say that it's umm if it expires, like if they haven't received a claim by 95 days you'd probably have to reapply because it says that’s their deadline. The date is 95 days so I'm thinking that if you were seen no later than this date, if not please call this number or something. something like that. And not that you have to re-file because that's going to be too tricky. Please call this number if you haven’t been seen by this date, you know? Yeah., that's better because now it's just I'm waiting and I don’t really have a timeframe. You know? It could be any day. 

**M: Yeah, sure.**

P3: And a timeframe is good, you know? Especially when you have a disability and you're trying to take care of yourself. You know, it would be great to know a timeframe. 

**M: Yeah, of course. Alright, well speaking of time...**

***M: Closing remarks***
