# Session Notes: Federal Standardized Header/Footer Usability Testing - Phase 1 (non-assistive tech users)

## Warm-up Questions 

1. *I understand you are a (Veteran / Family member / Caregiver). Is that right?* Veteran, Yes. 

1. *What kind of device are you using today? (Computer / Tablet / Smartphone)* iPhone, Yes. 

1. *I will be sharing a web page link with you during the session. How would you prefer to receive the URL? I could dictate it to you, put it in the Zoom chat, or (for smartphone only) my colleague could text it to you.*  Whatever works. (link in chat).

1. *What VA benefits, if any, do you have experience with?* All of them. Healthcare, social work, VR&E, basically everything, the whole buffet. 100% disability. 

1. *How do you typically get information and benefits from the VA?* We used to do with smoke signals, then telegraph, then pony express. It was osmitted for a long time. Either you knew it or you didn’t. The written stuff was outdated and now it seems that there is a lot of updated information. If I got a question, I have people that I can go to that will take me to ground immediately. 
1. * What do you do to get a question answered? * It would depend on what it was. I have a team of social workers. I’m different from most because I have been in the system for so long. I have resources that other people don’t have. I can’t advocate for those resources because they aren’t ordinary. 

## User Tasks

### Task 2: [First impressions]
*I would like you to take some time to look over this web page from top to bottom, and then tell me about it. I'm interested in your impressions of what you see, any questions that you have, and how you feel about it.* This is good. I like the USA logo. USA and DVA shield. It’s interesting. Usually USA is the same type face. It’s an unusual application of the USA thing. 
1.*What does DVA stand for? *Department of Veterans Affairs. 
Officer IG is usually not included anywhere. I think you should have the White House hotline somewhere. That is a resource most people don’t know about. The White House Hotline is an amazing resource. 

 

### Task 3: [Find VA location]
*I'd like you to imagine that you're planning a trip to another city, and you want to know where the nearest VA hospital is. How would you figure this out from this web page?* I’d probably go to about VA or accessibility. I would put locations or something to that effect. Something, I wouldn’t be sure. I probably would go to, About VA. Accessibility which doesn’t work. I really don’t know where that would be. Information for, possible. More resources. This is buried, for a location, I’m not seeing where that would be. Menu, find a VA location. I don’t know. I know now, under menu, find a VA location. 
Most of the time you’re finding important information, I would look generally at the bottom. No complaint there. 


### Task 4: [Learn about disability compensation]
*Pretend that lately you've been having difficulty with your hearing, and you think it might be related to your military service. So you're wondering if you qualify for [more] disability compensation. What could you do from this web page?* Benefits health care, disability, eligibility, file a claim, claim online. I’d go eligibility. 


### Task 5: [Find a Form]
*Let's say that you're considering going back to school to get your degree, and you'd like to see if the VA can help you pay for it. How might you apply online?* Benefits again, education training, GI Bill, VRE, SND, VVA, I’d probably go to GI benefits. I would click how to apply. Probably, depending if I had signed in, I would expect to see an already populated form in theory. That usually doesn’t happen. 
I was involved with Warrior Scholarship, it’s a great thing, it takes Veterans from classroom, and it’s an amazing program. A lot of people involved were high-functioning and moved fast in their careers. 

*Did you get a degree?* I was two credits from a Bachelor's. 

### Task 6: [Careers at VA]
*I want you to pretend that you're job hunting, and you're wondering if you could get a job at the VA. How might you do that from this web page?* Probably more resources. I’m just not seeing; I have to dig around. I don’t expect to see anything on the life insurance page. Again, it’s going to the menu as opposed to the bottom of the page. I’m geared to, if I’m looking for something, I’m going to go to the bottom of the page. 
Career and employment is there but the links were dead. I would say it would be under career and employment, find a job, VA careers and support. Which usually is 90% credential career professionals. 

### Task 7: [Contact VA]
*Say that after using this website for a while, you didn't get all of your questions answered. How might you reach out to someone at the VA?* Contact us, chatbot. 

### Task 8: [FOIA]
 *Say that you heard of the Freedom of Information Act, and you want to learn more about it. How might you do that from this web page?* It’s at the bottom. 

### Task 9: [Update your contact information with VA]
*Let's say that you recently moved and want to make sure that your mail and benefit information from the VA gets to your new address. I’d like you to update your address from this web page.* Probably need to sign in, definitely need to sign in. I’m signed in, because it says sign out. 
I’m going to default and go to the menu side. I would go to profile. 

## Post-Task Interview 

1. *What stands out to you on this page that indicates this is an official government website?* The standard border plate, logo and type face, that is indicative of VA proprietary stuff. 

1. *How often do you use VA.gov?* I usually access everything through My HealtheVet. Maybe, probably, sort of. But when it asks for passwords, I go through My HealtheVet. 

1. *Do you use the VA mobile app? If so, how often?* Yes. VA.gov. Not sure, every once in a while I will check my appointments. 

1. *Overall, about everything you've seen in this session...What worked *well* for you?* It’s all working and you have to take in considering that I’m astonished with what has happened since you got involved with it. I love it. Big fan. 

1. *What was *unclear or didn't work well* for you?* Various things being in the menu bar instead of the bottom. 

1. *What would you like to *change or add*?* Somebody needs to be really proud of that logo. It’s a big deal. 

1. *Is there anything else that we haven't talked about that you think I should know?* No. 

## Thank You and Closing

*Are you still okay if we use any video or audio clips from this session?* Yes.
- *(If participant says yes) Is there any part of our discussion that you would NOT want shared in a video clip?* No, I’m good with all of it. 

