# Session Notes: Federal Standardized Header/Footer Usability Testing - Phase 1 (non-assistive tech users)

## Warm-up Questions 

1. *I understand you are a (Veteran / Family member / Caregiver). Is that right?* Veteran, Yes. 

1. *What kind of device are you using today? (Computer / Tablet / Smartphone)* Microsoft Surface Pro. (Computer or tablet?) It’s a mix of both, it’s a hybrid. 

1. *I will be sharing a web page link with you during the session. How would you prefer to receive the URL? I could dictate it to you, put it in the Zoom chat, or (for smartphone only) my colleague could text it to you.* The chat is fine. 

1. *What VA benefits, if any, do you have experience with?* I have used the VA home loan, Chapter 33, Chapter 31 which I believe is post 9/11 and healthcare, VA messaging, I've been referred to community care, I do get VA disability compensation, I get 100%. 

1. *How do you typically get information and benefits from the VA?* So, when I lived in VA and DC it’s pretty communicative and people were very open with that. Here in FL, for one, counselors, I feel like they don’t want to give you your benefits, you have to fight for that and I had to do research. 
(VA online resources) I don’t know what that is called, but there’s a page for Voc Rehab. 
When I was looking for my 100%, E-benefits was removed. When I was trying to check the status, it would re-route me but for the most part, I liked it. 

## User Tasks

### Task 2: [First impressions]
*I would like you to take some time to look over this web page from top to bottom, and then tell me about it. I'm interested in your impressions of what you see, any questions that you have, and how you feel about it.* It looks a little different than the normal VA.gov. I feel like the word should be capitalized. Our life insurance needs doesn’t make sense to me. The wording doesn’t make sense to me. The wording is funky. Use life insurance needs calculator. I don’t love that. I don’t really know what it is. I know what life insurance is but I don’t know necessary what your. I think it’s the former or my ignorance with life insurance.  The resources and support, I like with people have this on their website and makes sense but I like to know what is here. 
I do like that you have, call us. It would be nice to have handles [icons for social media sites] instead. This is a government website, so it’s more professional. Maybe have the disability thing. I would assume I would find more benefits down here. There’s a lot down here, but it’s okay. 
 

### Task 3: [Find VA location]
*I'd like you to imagine that you're planning a trip to another city, and you want to know where the nearest VA hospital is. How would you figure this out from this web page?* I would click find a VA location. 


### Task 4: [Learn about disability compensation]
*Pretend that lately you've been having difficulty with your hearing, and you think it might be related to your military service. So you're wondering if you qualify for [more] disability compensation. What could you do from this web page?* I would go ahead and my mind would think it would be under VA benefits and Healthcare. If I’m trying to see how I can qualify or applying are two different things. In my mind the VA doesn’t show you but if I’m trying to get an increase, I would hit apply. Then press disability. 


### Task 5: [Find a Form]
*Let's say that you're considering going back to school to get your degree, and you'd like to see if the VA can help you pay for it. How might you apply online?* Say it’s under Va benefits, education, and training, and then either press About GI Bill benefits or Post 9/11 benefits. I would want to see more about GI bill benefits.  

### Task 6: [Careers at VA]
*I want you to pretend that you're job hunting, and you're wondering if you could get a job at the VA. How might you do that from this web page?* Because I already scrolled down, I saw careers. That wouldn’t be first go-to. I know on other websites it’s at the bottom, but I would search and careers at the VA. 

### Task 7: [Contact VA]
*Say that after using this website for a while, you didn't get all of your questions answered. How might you reach out to someone at the VA?* Up here it says contact. 

### Task 8: [FOIA]
 *Say that you heard of the Freedom of Information Act, and you want to learn more about it. How might you do that from this web page?* I would put in the search, Freedom of Information Act. I don’t know what that is, so I would put it in the search bar.  

### Task 9: [Update your contact information with VA]
*Let's say that you recently moved and want to make sure that your mail and benefit information from the VA gets to your new address. I’d like you to update your address from this web page.* I feel like I have to log on and usually from there I can’t remember where. Personally, I would click my name, I would say my profile. 

## Post-Task Interview 

1. *What stands out to you on this page that indicates this is an official government website?* The emblem at the top (seal) and if you’re familiar with the website, this is what it looks like. 
(USA government symbol) It’s new, I don’t really like it. It looked weird there to me. I thought it was fake, I thought it was added on. Why do I need to know that its USA government. Why does it need to be there? For me. I don’t understand the importance of it being there. 
(Blue vs Black section) The blue part is very much for veterans, dependents, caregivers, almost an extension, I know its Veteran related. But down here (black area) works well, I like it. I don’t need to necessarily need to go down here but this is more specific. This seems more outside of the VA but connected.  

1. *How often do you use VA.gov?* A couple times a year. I usually go to MyHealtheVet. I use MyHealtheVet on my phone way more often. 

1. *Do you use the VA mobile app? If so, how often?* The pharmacy one this year but the other apps, like years ago. 

1. *Overall, about everything you've seen in this session...What worked *well* for you?* For me you can really anticipate where you need to go. Even for an older demographic you can go. 

1. *What was *unclear or didn't work well* for you?* I don’t like this USA government here at the top. But’s it’s no big deal. 
At the top it looks cheesy and at the bottom, it looks really nice. 
At the top it looks redundant. 

1. *What would you like to *change or add*?* The only thing I can think of, not a big deal is that there is a lot of information right here (blue section). 

1. *Is there anything else that we haven't talked about that you think I should know?* 

## Thank You and Closing

*Are you still okay if we use any video or audio clips from this session?* Yes. 
- *(If participant says yes) Is there any part of our discussion that you would NOT want shared in a video clip?* No. 
