# Session Notes: Federal Standardized Header/Footer Usability Testing - Phase 1 (non-assistive tech users)

## Warm-up Questions 

1. *I understand you are a (Veteran / Family member / Caregiver). Is that right?* Veteran, Correct.

1. *What kind of device are you using today? (Computer / Tablet / Smartphone)* Apple, Ipad.

1. *I will be sharing a web page link with you during the session. How would you prefer to receive the URL? I could dictate it to you, put it in the Zoom chat, or (for smartphone only) my colleague could text it to you.* Zoom chat. 

1. *What VA benefits, if any, do you have experience with?* I have experience with post 9/11 education benefits, I have disability and I have Healthcare. 

1. *How do you typically get information and benefits from the VA?* I use their website. The VA.gov. 

## User Tasks

### Task 2: [First impressions]
*I would like you to take some time to look over this web page from top to bottom, and then tell me about it. I'm interested in your impressions of what you see, any questions that you have, and how you feel about it.* I’m seeing, this seems like a home page for the VA. Usually, when I look at the home page, I’m looking at the top of it. If I have an opportunity to sign in, I usually have an account. I will look at the bottom to see if there’s links I haven’t noticed before. I mainly stay to pretty much at the top of the web page unless I can’t find what I need, I’ll go to the bottom. 
 

### Task 3: [Find VA location]
*I'd like you to imagine that you're planning a trip to another city, and you want to know where the nearest VA hospital is. How would you figure this out from this web page?* I’ll go to find a VA location. Links are not working for me. 



### Task 4: [Learn about disability compensation]
*Pretend that lately you've been having difficulty with your hearing, and you think it might be related to your military service. So you're wondering if you qualify for [more] disability compensation. What could you do from this web page?* I will either go to VA Benefits or let me see other resources. I will go to see VA benefits and healthcare. Links not working. 
I would go to disability, and I guess I would have to call somebody to see if I qualify. If I can take care of it myself, I’d rather do it than call someone and be on hold. I’d go to eligibility. 


### Task 5: [Find a Form]
*Let's say that you're considering going back to school to get your degree, and you'd like to see if the VA can help you pay for it. How might you apply online?* I’m going to, education is not on here. I’m going to go to VA benefits and healthcare and go to education and training, and eligibility. So, I'm going to go to how to apply. 

### Task 6: [Careers at VA]
*I want you to pretend that you're job hunting, and you're wondering if you could get a job at the VA. How might you do that from this web page?* I’m going to go down here where it says careers VA. 

### Task 7: [Contact VA]
*Say that after using this website for a while, you didn't get all of your questions answered. How might you reach out to someone at the VA?* Let me see what is at the bottom of this page. I would either go to ask the chat box a question or there was another one, okay, I would start chat. 

### Task 8: [FOIA]
 *Say that you heard of the Freedom of Information Act, and you want to learn more about it. How might you do that from this web page?* Scroll down to the bottom, click here on the Freedom of Information Act. 

### Task 9: [Update your contact information with VA]
*Let's say that you recently moved and want to make sure that your mail and benefit information from the VA gets to your new address. I’d like you to update your address from this web page.* I’d go to sign in, I’d sign in through ID.me. I’d go to profile. 

## Post-Task Interview 

1. *What stands out to you on this page that indicates this is an official government website?* Really nothing. I say that because with all the phishing stuff they can take the address and make it their own. I would go to the address bar and see if it’s the official website. But in this case, it might be the seal. 
(What URL would you check) It would be the seal if anything. The seal at the top of the page. 
(What about the seal) It looks like an official government seal. 
(Difference between blue and black section of the page) I feel that the part that is blue has all the information that can assist you on what you need to do get information. The part that is black is for general information, civil rights, that kind of stuff. But for specific stuff or any type of resources will be in the blue. 

1. *How often do you use VA.gov?* Whenever I need to, if I cant get it done on my app and check my benefits, or prescriptions. Whenever I need to do more, I’ll go it on the website. Not often. It might of been 3 months ago. 

1. *Do you use the VA mobile app? If so, how often?* I use the VA refill and VA. I use it to check on any kind of communication with my PCM and I also use it to get or print out a VA letter.  It might have been about 3-4 weeks ago. 

( What would tell you that the URL was the VA?) The .gov. va.gov

1. *Overall, about everything you've seen in this session...What worked *well* for you?* Just going to the website and the ease to find education benefits and to click on the link and where to go for that. 

1. *What was *unclear or didn't work well* for you?* I don’t know. Everything seemed to work alright. 

1. *What would you like to *change or add*?* Nothing. 

1. *Is there anything else that we haven't talked about that you think I should know?* I don’t think the USA at the top is necessary.  
(Why) I guess to give them the warm and fuzzies that it is a government website. Just by putting USA government doesn’t make it official to me. I’m looking for the URL. 

## Thank You and Closing

*Are you still okay if we use any video or audio clips from this session?* 
- *(If participant says yes) Is there any part of our discussion that you would NOT want shared in a video clip?*
