# Session Notes: Federal Standardized Header/Footer Usability Testing - Phase 1 (non-assistive tech users)

## Warm-up Questions 

1. *I understand you are a (Veteran / Family member / Caregiver). Is that right?* 
Family member-spouse and caregiver of a veteran. 
1. *What kind of device are you using today? (Computer / Tablet / Smartphone)*
Smartphone
1. *I will be sharing a web page link with you during the session. How would you prefer to receive the URL? I could dictate it to you, put it in the Zoom chat, or (for smartphone only) my colleague could text it to you.* 
Um let me see, text it to me please
1. *What VA benefits, if any, do you have experience with?*
We have schooling, I am drawing a blank. Healthcare and Disability compensation. 
1. *How do you typically get information and benefits from the VA?*
Um banking wise or. Oh okay. Online. He normally does it, I don’t do it as often and then mail. 
Mail as in VA sending things: Yes the VA sends a letter, explanations, processing and such. 
Online, he does that: I wouldn’t do the online part. Then me personally I have a social worker I work with for the caregiver part. 
Someone you reach out to by phone: Phone and emails. 
You don’t deal directly with VA for anything besides the social worker: Yes social worker for the caregiver perspective then VA when needed. I haven’t had to in a while. 
When he does it online do you know what he uses: He is using his laptop and yes going to the website. I think he has the app; I am not sure. Now I have to go ask. 

## User Tasks

### Task 2: [First impressions]
*I would like you to take some time to look over this web page from top to bottom, and then tell me about it. I'm interested in your impressions of what you see, any questions that you have, and how you feel about it.*
So what is Tagalog mean. 
What do you think it means: No idea. 
Don't know what No FEAR Act is. There are the rights down here so you know that you are protected. I like some of the explanations. Like harassment. Yeah this is pretty interesting. This is good to know and have at your hands. It looks fairly easy to access. 
 

### Task 3: [Find VA location]
*I'd like you to imagine that you're planning a trip to another city, and you want to know where the nearest VA hospital is. How would you figure this out from this web page?*
I would just go to contact us and ask the question. Maybe information for areas or locations of va hospitals. I would do contact us and the other one would be information for.
Do you want to try one of those:  These don’t let me know where I can find the VA. 
Anywhere else you might look: 
Lord have mercy. This is terrible I don’t see anywhere else I might look. Wait a minute let me see, no. I don’t see any other place I would look. I don’t see anywhere else on this page other than contact us. No I don’t. 

Anything by the top that you would try: I love you Cindy. Yes I would try the menu. Then it says find a va location. Okay yeah. I hope we get through this. 

### Task 4: [Learn about disability compensation]
*Pretend that lately you've been having difficulty with your hearing, and you think it might be related to your military service. So you're wondering if you qualify for [more] disability compensation. What could you do from this web page?*
Menu, VA benefits/health care. I am looking to see what falls under VA benefits and health care. I would go under disability and look under eligibility, how to file a claim, and filing a claim online. Yeah. Let's see. Would that lead to a disability increase or am I just inquiring? It doesn’t have to be an increase. I don’t know why I feel so challenged today. 

### Task 5: [Find a Form]
*Let's say that you're considering going back to school to get your degree, and you'd like to see if the VA can help you pay for it. How might you apply online?*
I am looking for how to apply for school to see if there’s support for back to schooling. That’s not it. Oh my god, this is probably so simple. Education and training, how to apply, veteran readiness and employment. GI Bill school or program. I am trying to apply, how to apply. I would go to menu then look for education and how to apply. It won’t let me open it. 

### Task 6: [Careers at VA]
*I want you to pretend that you're job hunting, and you're wondering if you could get a job at the VA. How might you do that from this web page?*
Where did I see that earlier. I saw looking for jobs earlier. Not there. Oh so I would go to menu and hit va benefits and care. How to apply and look at careers and employment. How to apply. Yeah. Careers at VA. 

### Task 7: [Contact VA]
*Say that after using this website for a while, you didn't get all of your questions answered. How might you reach out to someone at the VA?*
I would do menu then contact us. I could ask chatbot, call us, contact the local facility, and I could do it through AskVA. Maybe FAQ. Or the 1-800 number. 
Which would you try: If it is concerning jobs? Okay to reach out to a person. I could do the find a VA location near me or number, or MyHealtheVet desk. 

### Task 8: [FOIA]
 *Say that you heard of the Freedom of Information Act, and you want to learn more about it. How might you do that from this web page?*
I could go to resources and support or does it have its own. Normally I would just go to search to type in what I want because that would’ve taken a lot of my time. I would type in FOIA. I would definitely type it in because of the fear of overlooking then getting frustrated or annoyed because I am not good at search and find. I would search for Freedom of information act. 

### Task 9: [Update your contact information with VA]
*Let's say that you recently moved and want to make sure that your mail and benefit information from the VA gets to your new address. I’d like you to update your address from this web page.*
I would do service member benefits. Change of address right there. It doesn’t open up.

What would you expect to happen: First I would need to be signed in to be able to change the address. It would verify that it is my information and then if I wanted to change the mailing address it would say update information. 
What kind of phone: iPhone.
Go ahead and sign in using login.gov: Okay then go over to service member benefits. 
Anything else you might do: For changing my address. Maybe records, I don’t know maybe records. I did see change of address but now I don’t. I see Cameron here. Okay it's right there. I would go to profile. 
I could do it under My VA as well since these are the bullets. 
Is that what you think: I see My VA and profile as category. Wouldn’t My VA let me do it as well. I would need to look at both because I think they could be one in the same. My VA could categorize  all of my things. 
Quickly thought profile, why and not second guessing: I closed the Cameron section and maybe it was an oversight at first or thought My VA was the header then the rest were subcategories. Yeah I would go right to profile. 
Still thinking you want to look at My VA:  if it is accessible. 

## Post-Task Interview 

1. *What stands out to you on this page that indicates this is an official government website?*
I hate to be cheesy but US Government then the seal. U.S government. Because of the seal. 
Can you tell me about the bottom:  I see .gov being connected to official websites. 
Where do you see that to tell: Um in the browser when you are looking at the website. Here it says .gov and that resonates with me and here it says an official website of the U.S Department of Veterans Affairs VA.gov. 
Helps indicate it to you: yes that would make me think I have the right website. 
1. *How often do you use VA.gov?*

1. *Do you use the VA mobile app? If so, how often?*

1. *Overall, about everything you've seen in this session...What worked *well* for you?*
The menu bar at the top. 
1. *What was *unclear or didn't work well* for you?*
Um, I want to say everything works well just depends on the individual. For sure like myself I would just click search. That would be my first go to is type in what I am looking for. I would use the menu bar but I prefer the search bar. 

Anything look familiar: resources and support is familiar. When I am dealing with my social worker contact. 

1. *What would you like to *change or add*?*
No. 
1. *Is there anything else that we haven't talked about that you think I should know?* 

## Thank You and Closing

*Are you still okay if we use any video or audio clips from this session?* Yes that’s fine. 
- *(If participant says yes) Is there any part of our discussion that you would NOT want shared in a video clip?* Um no I am fine. 
