# Session Notes: Federal Standardized Header/Footer Usability Testing - Phase 1 (non-assistive tech users)

## Warm-up Questions 

1. *I understand you are a (Veteran / Family member / Caregiver). Is that right?* 
Veteran and family member and service member. If you are an army reservist and completed a tour you are considered a veteran but currently still reservist. I am still subject to recall. Husband and father are both veterans as well. 
1. *What kind of device are you using today? (Computer / Tablet / Smartphone)*
Smartphone. 
1. *I will be sharing a web page link with you during the session. How would you prefer to receive the URL? I could dictate it to you, put it in the Zoom chat, or (for smartphone only) my colleague could text it to you.* 
Text
1. *What VA benefits, if any, do you have experience with?*
VR&E, GI Bill, VA.gov for appointments. VA healthcare. Disability compensation. 
1. *How do you typically get information and benefits from the VA?*
The app since it is easier to communicate instead of waiting on hold for hours or sending an email hoping for a response. 
Which app: VA.gov app. 
Other online resources: the website if I need something specific. Everything else is on the app like secure messaging and refilling prescriptions.
Which website: va.gov

## User Tasks

### Task 2: [First impressions]
*I would like you to take some time to look over this web page from top to bottom, and then tell me about it. I'm interested in your impressions of what you see, any questions that you have, and how you feel about it.*
 I am scanning to see what information is there. How easy it is easy to click through and how many places I will need to click through to get where I need. See how easy it is to go back , Color contrast is nothing over the top, easy to take in. Pretty simple which I great. Now I want to see how many clicks I will need to get there and how easy it is to move around. I have looked at the links and languages. No that’s pretty simple. I would like to see how it functions. 

### Task 3: [Find VA location]
*I'd like you to imagine that you're planning a trip to another city, and you want to know where the nearest VA hospital is. How would you figure this out from this web page?*
So the first thing I would do is search location or the specific city to see the what the search pulls out because it will normally pull up anything with the name in it. It also has find a va location so you can just put in a zip code. 

### Task 4: [Learn about disability compensation]
*Pretend that lately you've been having difficulty with your hearing, and you think it might be related to your military service. So you're wondering if you qualify for [more] disability compensation. What could you do from this web page?*
Normally I would go to the information portion like with the PACT Act it will be highlighted. You can also sign into your account and see your disability. You can search and look at similar or related conditions. It will list secondary if you have it in there already. My dad’s secondary wasn’t list then it was linked later on. When I see it I just go to the information section then highlighted area and research the areas with the 38 CFR. 
I would click information for. I would click women’s veterans because if there are additional information they will place it there. If I don’t see it there I would go to more resources then contact us to ask about a new list. They will answer or refer me to my primary care. Other than that it turns out as a google search. 
More resources the va will update it if any process changes have been made or additional disabilities have been added. You  can also be added for information for history or adaptive care. 

Then VSO which is general but I could search VSO and the list will pop up as well. I haven’t used the directory but I have used the outreach and VA welcome kit when I moved. 
Any links here that would be helpful: I would probably go with the outreach events because you can get information there and talk to someone face to face. That’s my route. If I can’t search it, get it from a vso, highlighted link, or subscription item, I will give it a few days or ask someone I know in the VA. 
Might look at contact us: Yeah that is your private message. Chatbot has been hit or miss. You have to be very specific. If you aren’t a good speller than it looks for exactly what you type. 

### Task 5: [Find a Form]
*Let's say that you're considering going back to school to get your degree, and you'd like to see if the VA can help you pay for it. How might you apply online?*
It is about your benefits so click benefits and go to education and training. Then it tells you how to apply and go through eligibility. It will go through how to apply and what else I need to know. I would click on each on to see what I needed. 

Application form: I could go back find va forms and use key words like education and normally the first 5 are on point. 

### Task 6: [Careers at VA]
*I want you to pretend that you're job hunting, and you're wondering if you could get a job at the VA. How might you do that from this web page?*
Honestly, I would start with a location and start with the local va location page. There is normally a link, there are selections on the side with the departments and an employment section there. 
What if you wanted to see it in general [not jobs at one specific location]: I would go to USA jobs directly and there use to be a link here. I couldn’t tell you form here I would just go to usa jobs and zero down the search.
Used before: yes. 
How did you get there: Normally I just type in the URL usajob.gov and it pulls it up

### Task 7: [Contact VA]
*Say that after using this website for a while, you didn't get all of your questions answered. How might you reach out to someone at the VA?*
I would go to contact us. Calling in, send a message, that’s normally how it works. 
I would use Ask VA instead of calling because it will be routed through a tier of people. It's better if they can read it instead of being updated from the person before. 

### Task 8: [FOIA]
 *Say that you heard of the Freedom of Information Act, and you want to learn more about it. How might you do that from this web page?*
I would search or there’s a link at the bottom. Yup right there then I click that and see what I need. 

### Task 9: [Update your contact information with VA]
*Let's say that you recently moved and want to make sure that your mail and benefit information from the VA gets to your new address. I’d like you to update your address from this web page.*
I would sign in with my DS login or login.gov depending on what I want. Then go to my name and go to profile and you can update it there. Email, password, and login. Then normally the profile is at the top with your name on the top right and go to profile and it has your personal information. When I clicked that it just went back to this page. 
I sign in the profile will be at the top with the army symbol. Okay Cameron is here so I click profile. 
What are you trying to click: profile because it will have my name, address, and email. 

After logging in it seemed you weren’t sure if you were signed in because the page was the same: yeah it looked the same. As I go back normally when you sign in the page changes at the top, in the right-hand corner there’s an icon on my app with my name which is hyperlinked so I can go right there. 
Looking for something to be different on the top right and name: Yes. 
Then found it, how: I saw sign out so I knew I was there so I was looking on the left-hand side and found the name.
Clicked on menu because it was there: yes. 
Assumed you were signed in but still looking for your name: yes.
Opened menu and found: Once I saw the name I assumed that was the name so it will be connect to your name or the icon that’s familiar to you. My Marine friends will tell you and identify with yellow feet and red colors. As a service members you are trained for colors and this is my direction. 
Looking for name or said army: Yes. 
You went and found what you needed at the menu but would make more sense to see it without clicking menu: yes. 
Where here would you expect it: Top right. 
Where sign-out is: Above where sign-out is. If your profile went up there or clicked to the service component they would see it. Everyone is still going to read left to right. 

Mobile app that’s where you see the name and army: eyes it had the profile and you can see the service symbol on it. 
Expecting something like that: That’s what I am used to but it does that on the website as well even though it has sign out. it has a circle
Name in a circle: circle before then name. 
It is how Cameron is: yes

## Post-Task Interview 

1. *What stands out to you on this page that indicates this is an official government website?*
USA government. VA symbol but you typed it in so you know. Red, white, blue color scheme good give away. I look at the URL and it will have .gov  US department of veteran affairs. If someone is making a fake page the seal won't be neat and it will have a weird address or open lock. Over time I can see if it is someone trying to sell me something. 
Usa government reactions: I have seen something similar. The thing that is worrying it is different fonts. Normally it's all the same. The color normally will be red white blue but which ever works best. 
Different fonts notices: the sizes and types. One looks smaller but the S is different. Normally it will all be the same blocky. The S seems different
Feelings about that: Maybe I am too familiar with the government so why are they changing the fonts. 
Not normally seen by government: it is not something I am used to so I would check the URL so my identity isn’t stolen. 
Make you suspicious: yes. 
Now that you are looking at it you are having second thoughts: yes but that’s because of the job I do because there’s a lot of people presenting themselves to the government then need to take a second look. 
Concerned about a spoof you look at the url: I would which would be https. Normally the bottom there would be bad links or the actual web address instead of .gov. 
Bottom of the page: looking at the bottom (reading page) Normally there will be another disclaimer for legal such as privacy. Is it dead links or a hack. I would go check those links as well. 
Blue background part: this is the action portion to get more information and specifics before going further into the page. You see how I mean the S looks different. 
The blue is most an action portion. It is interesting it has Tagalog. It have Vietnamese instead of Tagalog so it may go off of regional. 

1. *How often do you use VA.gov?*
1-2 times/week I’ll go to the website to see if they have specific treatments like they have light treatments. They have mucus membrane allergies or they’ll put out there been adverse effect or sign up here. Once or twice a week or more than that if there’s something in the news. 
1. *Do you use the VA mobile app? If so, how often?*
1-2 times a week to keep up with appointments and prescriptions. 
1. *Overall, about everything you've seen in this session...What worked *well* for you?*
The page was simplified, the areas to click were simple and the search as right there so you don’t need to look for it. The blue tool part was blank, I don’t know if it was meant to be that way. I like that its separated by sections. If you really want your attention called it's in bold so it would make me click on it or look to think about it. It was fairly easy. 

1. *What was *unclear or didn't work well* for you?*
No the only thing unclear was being signed in because I was still looking for more options to be listed or seeing a change on the page to let me know I was signed in. it's like pressing the button in the elevator but tis not really on so you press it again you expect a sound or movement to know it was completed.
Not enough feedback when logged in: correct. 

1. *What would you like to *change or add*?*
No scroll was easy and you can go back how you want. You can simply go back instead of clicking 3-4 times. Instead of swiping back something to take you right home that’s about it.

1. *Is there anything else that we haven't talked about that you think I should know?* 
No that’s everything. 

## Thank You and Closing

*Are you still okay if we use any video or audio clips from this session?* yes that is okay. 
- *(If participant says yes) Is there any part of our discussion that you would NOT want shared in a video clip?* No that’s fine. They will find it interesting I talked about the font. 
