# Session Notes: Federal Standardized Header/Footer Usability Testing - Phase 1 (non-assistive tech users)

## Warm-up Questions 

1. *I understand you are a (Veteran / Family member / Caregiver). Is that right?* 
Veteran. 
1. *What kind of device are you using today? (Computer / Tablet / Smartphone)*
Laptop. 
1. *I will be sharing a web page link with you during the session. How would you prefer to receive the URL? I could dictate it to you, put it in the Zoom chat, or (for smartphone only) my colleague could text it to you.* 
You can put it in the zoom chat. 
1. *What VA benefits, if any, do you have experience with?*
Ooh. I think almost everything. I have experience with treatments through the VA hospital, outside referrals for things they can’t do, therapy. 
Compensation: Yes
Education: I have but not since I retired. 
Anything else you do with the va: Not necessarily.
Most appointments are with VA for health and mental health. Dental as well. I try to use the va as much and often as I can. 
1. *How do you typically get information and benefits from the VA?*
Any information I get is normally through secure message and phone call. Because I use secure message with the providers I also get an email with reminders or lets me know if I have a message. For compensation it comes through direct deposit. The only thing I have to do is use BTS to request vouchers if needed. I use all avenues that is available. The only benefit I have not sued yet are my education benefits. I am trying to figure out what I want to do when I grow up. I used my Montgomery GI bill because using the tuition assistance as 100 percent in the early 2000. That’s when I used my GI benefits. I haven’t had to use them since because at the time Tuition assistance only covered 75 percent. Then years later when they made the Post 9/11 available I transferred it over.
Thinking of using it now: yes that is money I earned. 
Secure messaging about appointments: yes and if I have any questions I can use secure message on va.gov. that comes in handy. Any information I need to know I go to va.gov. I used to go to eBenefits but since it has been transitioned over I just go to va.gov to do everything. I'll renew prescriptions, leave messages with providers if I have questions. That's what I do. I try to utilize the technology to my advance. Its easier than calling because when you call it will just ring because they are understaffed and overwhelmed. I try to take the route of least resistance. 
## User Tasks

### Task 2: [First impressions]
*I would like you to take some time to look over this web page from top to bottom, and then tell me about it. I'm interested in your impressions of what you see, any questions that you have, and how you feel about it.*
 Let me see. Just looking at it from top to bottom it is simplistic to where it is not overwhelming. There's not a lot of distracting features. USA government at the top is standard red, white, and blue. It has the VA seal. It is user friendly. It is very simple and straight to the point. This portion of the screen what I like is that it provides the difference category and hyperlinks. If I want to see what the va offers for women veterans I can click there. If I have questions I can use contact us with chatbot or virtual person or call and wait to be connected. I don’t like doing so I try to do the route of least resistance so anything I can do to make it quick. Then at the bottom features I don’t necessarily ever go down that far because I don’t have a lot of questions that would be raised about my rights FOIA. I have never had to use those links at the bottom. I pretty much when I am on the website I click what I need using these links with va benefits, about va, or find a location. That's how I found out where the va hospital I go to in Atlanta was because I was trying to find the closest place. I am in the metro area but the south area so I was trying to see which is the closest. For me because of things I need to have address I rather go to the hospital because they have more of the area located there instead of going to a clinic then needing a referral. The only time I had to go outside was for something they couldn’t handle so I went to a civilian hospital. 

### Task 3: [Find VA location]
*I'd like you to imagine that you're planning a trip to another city, and you want to know where the nearest VA hospital is. How would you figure this out from this web page?*
For me I would go to find a VA location and click on that. Say I want to go to the one at home I click in city/state; or if I want to go to Denver I can click there and hit the search button and drop down for the facility type. If its just urgent care instead of the hospital I could look for a clinic or if its serious I would look for hospital. Then it will give you the option for service type and click search and wait for it to popup on the map. 

### Task 4: [Learn about disability compensation]
*Pretend that lately you've been having difficulty with your hearing, and you think it might be related to your military service. So you're wondering if you qualify for [more] disability compensation. What could you do from this web page?*
From this page I can go to va benefits and health care. Let me see. What do they have for healthcare. No. Disability link to view all in disability then click on eligibility and read through there to see if I can. When I get here I don’t look at the left side I try to read the entire page. I would read each section to make sure I am in the right area before I click out of it. I will go through and look at everything to see how to file a claim and see what’s covered.

### Task 5: [Find a Form]
*Let's say that you're considering going back to school to get your degree, and you'd like to see if the VA can help you pay for it. How might you apply online?*
Again go back to va benefits and health care, then education and training. I can go through and pick the eligibility to see what I am eligibility for and click how to apply. 

A way to go direct to the application: I am sure there is. That’s a good question. A lot of the time I will go through va.gov website and just go to it’s a screen and gives you the categories. I just go to that. Its an icon to show you education and I can click on that and go through the information based off of where the page sends me. It is still good because I can navigate through this and find things. That’s what I do when I am helping my veteran friends. A lot of the time I will use myHealtheVet and they don’t have access I will walk them through it so they can set it up. It still works because you get to the same information. 

Did you do this before retiring or something you do: it’s just something I like to do. Knowledge is power and the more people with the knowledge the more powerful they are in educating themselves especially with the VA  before retiring. I heard a lot of people say how not user friendly the va is. I haven’t had issues but I know a lot of people are aren’t tech savvy and using the site can be challenged. If it is an older person like my mom’s age. I would be like let me walk you through it because I know you don’t do this a lot. She doesn’t do online payments she will physically go to the place to pay bills. 

Do you still help: yes I enjoy helping people so it doesn’t bother me to do it. Especially if I know that person like a friend letting me know what happened with her son that got hurt during boot camp. They hadn’t filed anything and I told them he should rate something. He was still legally attached to the military and they have his things online. Its archived. Regardless he should rate something but you wont know until you got through the process to file a claim and encourage him to reach out. a lot of times people are not sure where to find information so they just don’t do it. I had a lot of friends that retired before me so they prepared me. I had others before me to tell me what to look for and where to look for it so I pay it forward. 

Where else would you look: I use the app to so I don’t know if I can do it on the app but I’m sure I can. I have an app for everything. va mobile app. I am on the go so I can pull up the app and login form there. 
### Task 6: [Careers at VA]
*I want you to pretend that you're job hunting, and you're wondering if you could get a job at the VA. How might you do that from this web page?*
From this page I would scroll all the way down to look for careers which it says careers at va and go to that link. Then look to see the different avenues. Now that you said that I will probably go to this after this to see  what openings they have open. 
Want to go back to work: I have been working for the past 2 years. Its up in the air some days I will go back into the government and others no. then I think full time retirement. It depends. My last assignment I was teaching in the job field I worked in. Where I am now in private sector I work for the school. I am a paraprofessional so a teachers aid. 
Worked for the government before: not since I left the military. 
### Task 7: [Contact VA]
*Say that after using this website for a while, you didn't get all of your questions answered. How might you reach out to someone at the VA?*
Hit contact us then you can call, contact local facility, explore FAQ’s. for me a lot of the time I will go through the FAQ’s first to see the categories because that can help me navigate if I need to call or reach out. The questions you have are pretty regular questions and you can find it there. When I realized that I had questions and it’s not there that’s when I decide to do that chat, for me its easier to chat instead of calling due to limited staff members.
How to do chat from here: hit ask our chat bot a question. 

### Task 8: [FOIA]
 *Say that you heard of the Freedom of Information Act, and you want to learn more about it. How might you do that from this web page?*
Scroll to the bottom because there are hidden nuggets there always. They have it here so I would click on it and go to the page to read about it. 

### Task 9: [Update your contact information with VA]
*Let's say that you recently moved and want to make sure that your mail and benefit information from the VA gets to your new address. I’d like you to update your address from this web page.*
So I went under va benefits and health care, go to records then view all in records. Manage records have change your address so I would click on that. I did that when I moved here form CA. 
Did you do it on va.gov: I think what I did was I did it on va.gov but because I used eBenefits page it forwarded me to this page. That was when they were transitioning it for it to be streamline on one area. Even when I was waiting for my claim I went through benefits but it would be click this link and it sent me to va.gov page. So I was able to do what I needed on that page. 
Steps: it gives your current information then have the fields that you can edit your profile and go in to change the address to the new address. Then when you’re done click apply then it brings up another page to review then click submit. 
How would it show you your information: it was based off of DEERS.

How would you get to your information from here:  Let me see. You could request the military records because it would have the address you signed off on before leaving the military. 
Can you see the information the va knows about you now: I don’t know I cant see anything on here. 
When you use va.gov before how do you get it to know it’s you: Before I can do anything I need to login. I sign in and depending on how much time I have for it to come up I can use ds login or id.me because it gives you a lot of options. You have 4 different options but I use ds login or id.me and I think they have login.gov. I don’t sue that one so I am not as familiar. I used to use ds login all the time until they offered id.me and since I had an account it was easier for me to do that because there’s less steps. After a certain time with ds login you have to change the password and go through that entire process again so it is tedious. 

I would click sign in. Then with this one login.gov the only time I use it is when I go to usajobs.gov then it asks if you are an existing user if not you can create an account. I already have an account so I can go in with my email and password and click sign in. 
I was trying to see if I was signed in and I see I am Cameron.
Puzzled before you noticed Cameron: I was looking and the page looked exactly how it did before I signed in. I could tell something was at the bottom but it was the same but different because it now has a name.
What happened when you normally sign in: Normally if I use the app after I login it will bring up a screen that gives me icons that I can choose. Like on the app it will say payments, appointments, health benefits, then something else and I go to what I need on the page. I normally do it on my phone so I don’t go through the website page unless I am curious about something.
Used to the page being different once logged in: yes.
Update address: I would still go to change your address and wait for it to pull up the page.
Maybe something else you could do: I just get curious and click buttons but they don’t work. Um. I could search change of address. I don’t know if it will let me. If I couldn’t figure out where to go I would look for search or go to contact and figure out how to get in contact with someone to ask that question and update the address situation. Yeah I know the first few times I tried to use the website it took time to get used to because I didn’t know what section I needed to go through. Because I am who I am I will just click links to see where it takes me. Thats what I did initially was playing around with the website to understand how it worked. I wasn’t familiar. When active duty you don’t go through va.gov because everything you need is on base. Getting prepared to get out I had to learn how to navigate and know what I needed and where to find the information. That was one of the things I took time out to be curious about what was there. 

Cameron, if it said your name would you go there: yes automatically. 
what would you do here: I would go here to profile and when it brings up my profile and asks me to update the information I would go through and update it. 
Looking in menu to change address, here you knew where to go: I wasn’t really thinking about the fact I normally just go under my name. The different name didn’t register. Had it been my name I would have automatically went there and gone to profile to update it. 

## Post-Task Interview 

1. *What stands out to you on this page that indicates this is an official government website?*
Um what stands out to me that it is an government website. If it were a live site I would look at the URL to see it is a https hyperlink and that’s because I know using the pages in this type of manner because of the PII you want to make sure its secure. A lot of the time you could type in something that says us government and it will be a .com or .org so it's not what you are looking for so I always look at the URL to make sure its secure. I remember at one point I was trying to go to the White House and it was a porn website and it was not what I was trying to go to. 

URL: it would have a lock. Even if its not the va and its banking you want to make sure it is an actual secure site if you are putting PII there. If it’s just you browsing and google tis doesn’t matter because it doesn’t contain PII. 

Check when you are about to enter PII: well I would check to make sure the website is legitimate before logging in because I have had issues with accounts being compromised and because of that I definitely try to make sure when I click on something I am not clicking without paying attention before I enter inform. 

What else would you look for: other than the URL I look at the page but for me a lot of the time I will scroll to the bottom to see what shows up. Here says USA VA  and official website of the us department of veteran affairs. There are people creating false websites so I will definitely scroll down to make sure it is an official website before logging in. 

Anything else: the seal and logo may not mean it’s a real page but if it is I would click on it to see where it would take me. Again I would do that before I login. I would see where it goes and what it says. Even if it looks similar I would scroll down to make sure. 

Top of the page: USA government. Um its cool and all but to me it doesn’t scream that its legit. When I look at the seal not the top header its what’s in the page and like when I clicked on the seal the hand brought me here. I will scroll to see if it provides that option and if it doesn’t then I would look for another way to get into the page to see where it will take me before logging in. 

Thoughts: it wouldn’t set off any alarms because if it says it is an official website you wouldn’t expect it not to be. Again because a lot of people are savvy enough to duplicate pages and it may not be official when you click on links. The first thought to me when I see this is it says an official website I think it’s real so I would login or sign in and go through the steps to make an account. 
Comments about big USA: no I mean in this case it doesn’t need to be colorful. At the top it is aesthetically pleasing. It could be in white. It doesn’t negate if it looks official because it doesn’t have color at the bottom. 

1. *How often do you use VA.gov?*
The website went I want to actually read about information and want a bigger screen. It is easier to navigate a wider screen because on the phone you have to make it larger and move the screen. If I need information about the GI bill and want to see the differences or the yellow ribbon I would look at the website because its quicker to go through and look at the links and read it rather than using the app or using my web browser on my phone. Not often maybe once every or twice every other month. Normally the time I go on the website is when someone asks a question. Like when they made the announcement of the pact act I wanted to see the qualifications and I went to scroll around and started to read things. 
1. *Do you use the VA mobile app? If so, how often?*
I used this yester to refill prescriptions. More than the website because the app is easier even video connect. Not every day but at least once every two months depending on what is going on. I want to make sure I am not missing appointments but I get reminders via email and it says it was canceled so I go on the app to look. 
1. *Overall, about everything you've seen in this session...What worked *well* for you?*

1. *What was *unclear or didn't work well* for you?*

1. *What would you like to *change or add*?*

1. *Is there anything else that we haven't talked about that you think I should know?* 

## Thank You and Closing

*Are you still okay if we use any video or audio clips from this session?* Yes
- *(If participant says yes) Is there any part of our discussion that you would NOT want shared in a video clip? No
