# Session Notes: Federal Standardized Header/Footer Usability Testing - Phase 1 (non-assistive tech users)

## Warm-up Questions 

1. *I understand you are a (Veteran / Family member / Caregiver). Is that right?* 
Veteran. 
1. *What kind of device are you using today? (Computer / Tablet / Smartphone)*
iPad. 
1. *I will be sharing a web page link with you during the session. How would you prefer to receive the URL? I could dictate it to you, put it in the Zoom chat, or (for smartphone only) my colleague could text it to you.* 
On the Chat. 
1. *What VA benefits, if any, do you have experience with?*
GI Bill, Chapter 35, VA disability claim process. VA health care. 
Chapter 35 is spouse benefits. 
1. *How do you typically get information and benefits from the VA?*
Like through mail or through the app when accessible. The VA app. On my phone. 
Ever use any websites: I go to va.gov every once in a while to check the records that I cannot access on the app. Blue Button. 
App when you can: Yes. 

## User Tasks

### Task 2: [First impressions]
*I would like you to take some time to look over this web page from top to bottom, and then tell me about it. I'm interested in your impressions of what you see, any questions that you have, and how you feel about it.*
 Seems like this is optimized for a CRT monitor. The content looks modern. Looks a bit dated due to software and the information at the top looks outdated. 
Outdated aspect ratio: it doesn’t see show the entire screen. I don’t know if that’s because it's rendered differently or coded for a mobile app. I would think if it were on a monitor it wouldn’t fill the screen. There would be black bars. That could be worked on. 
Expect the text to go wider and no white or black on the outside: black . I expect the entire screen to be used. 
USA seems outdated: seems unnecessary to me. It seems like it could start there unless I can click on it to go to another government resources. Other than that I don’t see a need for it. Other than that it seem like the va.gov homepage here. Those were my main issues. Okay so it has languages here which is good. I would put them up top in case someone needs to see that. Probably in the corner here or replace the USA government with the languages tab to make it more accessible. I think that's all I have for this page here. 

Did you go to the bottom: I did. Maybe one last thing/ I thought I wouldn’t be able to click on these [blue bar in header] so maybe an underline to show that you can click on it. 

Black bar doesn’t seem to be clicked: no it has an arrow for these to click on but not this one. Theres no bar or hyperlink extension. 

What do you do for work: I am a project engineer for satellite communication. 

### Task 3: [Find VA location]
*I'd like you to imagine that you're planning a trip to another city, and you want to know where the nearest VA hospital is. How would you figure this out from this web page?*
Go to find a va location here. 

### Task 4: [Learn about disability compensation]
*Pretend that lately you've been having difficulty with your hearing, and you think it might be related to your military service. So you're wondering if you qualify for [more] disability compensation. What could you do from this web page?*
That sounds like a benefit so I would go here then disability. Right here how to file a claim. 
What if you qualify: then the eligibility 

### Task 5: [Find a Form]
*Let's say that you're considering going back to school to get your degree, and you'd like to see if the VA can help you pay for it. How might you apply online?*
That would be education and training then eligibility then how to apply would give me instructions on how to do that. 
Anywhere else: the application for education benefits. That I am not sure let me see if I can find something. I should be able to click out of this and the popup disappear but I have to go up here to close. Instead it highlights the entire page. 
If you click else where it should automatically close: yes. 
VA forms there we go. 

### Task 6: [Careers at VA]
*I want you to pretend that you're job hunting, and you're wondering if you could get a job at the VA. How might you do that from this web page?*
Careers at VA down here. 

### Task 7: [Contact VA]
*Say that after using this website for a while, you didn't get all of your questions answered. How might you reach out to someone at the VA?*
I see the contact form here. It looks like it provides options. I clicked contact right here. 
What would you use: With my experience with va I would like chatbot or online but I would just call. That seems the most expedition. 
Experience is why you prefer calling: chatbot doesn’t give me anything. If someone isn’t tech savvy and wants to apply for the GI Bill you ask and it provides the link. I tried contact us online and it took days for a basic response. Calling I might be on the phone for an hour but my question will be responded to right then. It’s not ideal but it is what it is. 

### Task 8: [FOIA]
 *Say that you heard of the Freedom of Information Act, and you want to learn more about it. How might you do that from this web page?*
Records, honestly at that point I would search to see if I can find a hyperlink. I would search Freedom of information there. 

### Task 9: [Update your contact information with VA]
*Let's say that you recently moved and want to make sure that your mail and benefit information from the VA gets to your new address. I’d like you to update your address from this web page.*
How did you get there: I just click on us department of veterans affairs it took me to the beginning instead of the first page. 
Okay, that’s a good question. I think I need to sign in first than it will take me to my account details. I am signed in now and then I think I go to profile. 

How did you know you were logged in: this changed from sign in to Cameron. 

## Post-Task Interview 

1. *What stands out to you on this page that indicates this is an official government website?*
The VA badge here and us department of veteran affairs and this black bar which stats an official page of veteran affairs. If this was a real page it would indicate va.gov
More about USA government at the top, didn’t think it was needed, comments on how it looks if it were to stay there: Again I think it’s a stylistic preference at that point. The USA I see the intention of it being a flag but it seems amateur. I would think I was being phished if I say it on a .gov site. 

Seems amateurish and infers phishing: yes. 
What about it seems amateurish: the fact that it is unnecessary  screen real estate and doesn’t blend in with the screen its just there. 
Something about a flag: the stylist rendering of the flag red, white, blue. I see the intention of the colors of the flag. I see the one at the bottom and this bottom one seems more official to me. Payment switching those out. I guess it doesn’t have unnecessary coloring and starts official website. It’s boring and professional to me. 
Below USA government and veteran affairs: Let's see. Not necessarily maybe the text that says Veteran affairs, maybe its my eyes but the text style isn’t what you would see in the page below. Maybe making it more aligned with the site. 
You can tell it's different: yes. 
1. *How often do you use VA.gov?*
On a monthly basis probably. 
1. *Do you use the VA mobile app? If so, how often?*
Weekly basis. 
Preference between fonts: the hyperlinks? 
The veteran affairs and deciding how much life insurance: I like the text in the blue bar because it is smaller and cleaner. I understand the larger print for older veterans. The bigger font is more user friendly in that aspect. I have corrective glasses so I like the smaller text and can zoom in if needed. Maybe it’s the beta text because the header seems blurry to me. 
The style of the texts, thoughts: text in bar and below it. Deciding how much life insurance doesn’t seem to flow. I have trouble seeing the upper- and lower-case letters because they seem the same size. It doesn’t seem to flow great and not easy on the eyes. 
Shape of letters not as easy: correct, they are much more round which I don’t like. 
Applies to Veteran affairs instead of insurance: yes. And the U seems bigger than the S. If I were to draw a line across it seems like it wouldn’t align. In my eyes it's weird. It’s like there’s different font sizes there for some reason. 
In US: yes. 	

Cameron menu, other links you expect, thoughts: let's see. (Reading page) Maybe claims. Benefits, and education could be there so you can see your specific values for that. 
What do you want under claims: status for the claim where it is at in the process. 
Under benefits: payments where it's going like the bank account. I have noticed that you can have separate bank accounts for claim and educations so I would want to see it separated so I know where its going. 
Anything else you expect to see here: VA messages. 
From medical providers: Yes. 
My va refers to: That seems it would take me to the home page. It is ambiguous 
Do you login to va.gov: I do. 
1. *Overall, about everything you've seen in this session...What worked *well* for you?*
The healthcare, disability and education work well. It helps break it down by the sections. The sign in page is better because it provides options for login. Nowadays you have va.gov ID.me so that’s easy. Then pretty easy access for profile and letters and well as contact us being up front. Normally websites have it all the way down here you have it there as well but it’s not as easy to find as up here. 
1. *What was *unclear or didn't work well* for you?*
I couldn’t find FOIA so I had to use the search bar and the My VA is ambiguous. I am trying to recall where it takes me but I am sure it takes me to a home page to see claims. My va to means all of my benefits so that could be broken down into disability, education, medical, records. 
My va to take you to the home page but would be nice to be your own personal benefits: yes. 
When would you find search useful: Lets see. If I am trying to find a very specific form I would search that form here. I need something very specific or the search isn’t that helpful because it will find a bunch of hits that are not relevant to me. 
Wouldn’t use unless you had something very specific: yes

1. *What would you like to *change or add*?*
A common issue I have is that I have to do 2FA each time I login. I would like the option to not require 2fa when I login on this device. I think it gives me that option but never remembers the device. I would like VA messages being upfront. My va should be tailored like claims and incoming messages. The option since you have letters here, that shows the official letters they give you for disability status or education claims. Proof of benefits. I would like to see a tab to see anything that’s mailed to me and no longer have physical mail sent to me which is annoying. I would rather see everything online instead of it being sent to me. That would be a good step forward in the process. 

Sign in process: Okay, there we go. 
You want that process instead of 2fa: yes once you do it initially.
Currently you do it each time even when using a device before: Yes even if I come in 30 minutes later. Each time the page times out.  

1. *Is there anything else that we haven't talked about that you think I should know?* 
Um. The veteran crisis line is very important to have here so I feel like most people wouldn’t know you can click this to take you someone. Have a hyperlink, an underline, or an arrow. 
Back to original feedback of no arrow or line it doesn’t look clickable: yes. Or maybe on initial loading of the page have an animation have it drop down and say if they are having a crisis please call this number or click here to do this and have it pack it back up after a few seconds or once they click out of it. 
Anything else: No that’s all I have. Oh there’s FOIA. I wouldn’t have thought to go down here for that. 
Now that you are there, what do you think about the links in general: Um I feel like they could be sorted better. Maybe have then grouped civil rights, no fear, FOIA should be under one and accessible could go up here that way it is easier for those that need it be up there as well as the language dropdown you can change it up there. Yeah the FPOIS , inspector general could be moved to more resources. It seems jumbled. Not as easy to find. 

Seemed jumbled and the blue part is laid out better in columns: Yes that is what I would be looking for. 
## Thank You and Closing

*Are you still okay if we use any video or audio clips from this session?* Yupp I am okay with it. 
- *(If participant says yes) Is there any part of our discussion that you would NOT want shared in a video clip?* I am okay with all of it. 

