# Session Notes: Federal Standardized Header/Footer Usability Testing - Phase 1 (non-assistive tech users)

## Warm-up Questions 

1. *I understand you are a (Veteran / Family member / Caregiver). Is that right?* 
Veteran. 
1. *What kind of device are you using today? (Computer / Tablet / Smartphone)*
Smartphone
1. *I will be sharing a web page link with you during the session. How would you prefer to receive the URL? I could dictate it to you, put it in the Zoom chat, or (for smartphone only) my colleague could text it to you.* 
Zoom Chat
1. *What VA benefits, if any, do you have experience with?*
Chapter 31- Voc Rehab. Compensation, VA healthcare.  
1. *How do you typically get information and benefits from the VA?*
In person at the facility.
Online resources: My HealtheVet .

## User Tasks

### Task 2: [First impressions]
*I would like you to take some time to look over this web page from top to bottom, and then tell me about it. I'm interested in your impressions of what you see, any questions that you have, and how you feel about it.*
 There are dropdown tabs there. Pretty straightforward. I guess is this a generic site to access all of VA’s resources online.
Is that what it appears to be: it does. I am clicking on menu. Okay. (reading page). I would click on benefits and healthcare to see what options I have. Okay. 

### Task 3: [Find VA location]
*I'd like you to imagine that you're planning a trip to another city, and you want to know where the nearest VA hospital is. How would you figure this out from this web page?*
Oo. Um. I think I would go to either more resources or the search icon next to menu. I will try search icon first. Oh cool its right there find VA location. I would click on that. I would click on city state and postal code to type in the zip code of where I would be going. 

### Task 4: [Learn about disability compensation]
*Pretend that lately you've been having difficulty with your hearing, and you think it might be related to your military service. So you're wondering if you qualify for [more] disability compensation. What could you do from this web page?*
Um. I am scrolling through to look through. I would go back to menu. Click va benefits and healthcare. I would go to disability I assume. Then I would click on eligibility. I would scroll down to read the page. Presumptive conditions. 

### Task 5: [Find a Form]
*Let's say that you're considering going back to school to get your degree, and you'd like to see if the VA can help you pay for it. How might you apply online?*
Go back to menu, va benefits and health care. Education and training. Then I guess here I would want to see which program I would be eligibility for either survivor, VR&E, GI Bill, click how to apply. I would expect directions then an application to fill out. 

How else could you find it: I could go to the search icon and type in whatever I am looking for. I am clicking on the search drop down box to insert. 
What would you have typed in there: VR&E application. 

### Task 6: [Careers at VA]
*I want you to pretend that you're job hunting, and you're wondering if you could get a job at the VA. How might you do that from this web page?*
Um. I think I would go to information for or more resources. I will try more resources. That’s not it. I don’t see anything with career or employment services. I will try information for, I wonder if it would be under business. 
Anywhere else you would look: Go back to menu. I guess where it says recourses and support if I can click on that. 
What do you expect there: more information on employment or be able to search for it there. I would go to usa.gov from here. 
What would you expect there: If I remember the website correctly I think it is more of an HR type website with job listings. 
Expect to find va jobs: I think it is a generic site for federal jobs
Anywhere else you would look for VA jobs: About VA. (Reading Page) I think innovation at VA. That’s not it. Back to menu. Close this. Go back to menu, I think at this point I would use contact us and ask for assistance. 
I am looking at the different options here. I would ask the chatbot a question for job listings at local va or something of that sort. 

### Task 7: [Contact VA]
*Say that after using this website for a while, you didn't get all of your questions answered. How might you reach out to someone at the VA?*


### Task 8: [FOIA]
 *Say that you heard of the Freedom of Information Act, and you want to learn more about it. How might you do that from this web page?*
I would search for FOIA. 
You would type it in the box: Right then click the search icon. 

### Task 9: [Update your contact information with VA]
*Let's say that you recently moved and want to make sure that your mail and benefit information from the VA gets to your new address. I’d like you to update your address from this web page.*
I would go to menu then click on my name Cameron. I think I would go to My VA or profile. I would go to profile first. 
Deciding which to pick, you choose profile, please tell me more: I choose profile because I think that’s where it would be. Then I think maybe it would be my online profile information instead of my benefit information. 
Thoughts on My VA: have more of my personal information. 
From your explanation it would be My VA: Yes. Profile could be my signing in information. 
What might be in My VA: All of my personal information. Home of records, SSN, benefit information. Direct deposit, things of that sort. 
Looking at the menu, is there anything else that should be listed: I guess compensation. 
What would you expect: My disability rating. It has a dependent option so that’s there. 
Have you ever tried to change your address with VA: I have done it in person with eligibility office. 
Ever try it online before: No. 
Where do you expect to see it, a link or information displayed: I think it would be one of the links. It would be under My VA as well. 
Have you seen anything called My VA before: I have seen va.gov I haven’t seen just My VA before. 

Click on magnifying glass please, you wanted to type something before. Could you tell me about the rest of the options here: 
They are self-explanatory. I used find a va location form here before. 
What could you get to using the other links: File for disability, okay. That would take you to the application to file a new claim. Thean find a va form could be other forms you need such as release of information, other forms depending on what you are applying for. Schedule and manage health appointments. Find benefits recourses and support, I am curious what that entails. Can I click on that. 
What could be there: an explanation of all of the benefits you could be eligible for and how to go about applying for them. It wont let me click on it though. 

## Post-Task Interview 

1. *What stands out to you on this page that indicates this is an official government website?*
The department of Veteran Affairs seal at the top of the page. Just the generic. It says US government  at the top and US department of Veteran affairs, and the link to talk to the veteran crisis line stands out to me. 
Scroll down and tell me if there’s anything down there: Right there va.gov an official website of the US department of veteran affairs. 
Thoughts on the USA in big letters: Um it stands out. It has the seal next to it. I don’t have too much thought on it. I think it looks good. 
Talk about the top line there: Where it says US government. 
Helps indicate it’s a government website: Yes. 
Thoughts on looks: I wouldn’t expect it to say USA, I see US the same that it is official. I like the color scheme of it. It’s new its different. 
Comments on the deal or where it says Veteran affairs: it lets you know the agency that you are signing into or accessing for the government. 
Do you ever go to other government sites: I go to department of energy, department of agriculture, social security, and IRS.
Do you work in government: No.
What do you do: Medical receptionist. 

1. *How often do you use VA.gov?*
I think I have gone to it once or twice. 
How recently: it’s been awhile, maybe 6-8 months ago. 
Haven’t had reason to go back: no. 
1. *Do you use the VA mobile app? If so, how often?*
No I use my HealtheVet. 
When you use that is that on an app or website: Website. 
VA mobile apps you use: I use the move program. 
Is that for exercise: Yes.
Nothing else: Nothing else. 

1. *Overall, about everything you've seen in this session...What worked *well* for you?*
Assuming the website was up and functioning, it all worked well. 
1. *What was *unclear or didn't work well* for you?*
Um to change my information. Once I signed in to know what tab to click to change my information. 
wasn’t sure for my va or profile: correct. 
1. *What would you like to *change or add*?*
Records request. Say if I need a copy of my dd214, a tab where I can go in and request that
Where would you want that tab: I think once I sign in that would be under the name drop down in letters. 
What do you think is under letters: different verification forms like proof of service, benefit verification.
Want to request a dd214 under there as well: Yea or a separate tab that says records request. My first thought would be under letters. 
1. *Is there anything else that we haven't talked about that you think I should know?* 
Um. Only thing I didn’t see if I forgot my password. An option to reset your password.
Where would that be: under profile. 

## Thank You and Closing

*Are you still okay if we use any video or audio clips from this session?* yes. 
- *(If participant says yes) Is there any part of our discussion that you would NOT want shared in a video clip?* No I am okay. 
