# Session Notes: Federal Standardized Header/Footer Usability Testing - Phase 1 (non-assistive tech users)

## Warm-up Questions 

1. *I understand you are a (Veteran / Family member / Caregiver). Is that right?* 
Veteran, caregiver to veteran to my father-in-law. My wife and I care for him. 
1. *What kind of device are you using today? (Computer / Tablet / Smartphone)*
In the man cave here on a PC desktop. 
1. *I will be sharing a web page link with you during the session. How would you prefer to receive the URL? I could dictate it to you, put it in the Zoom chat, or (for smartphone only) my colleague could text it to you.* 
I am comfortable with zoom. I use it for work every day. so through the chat. 
1. *What VA benefits, if any, do you have experience with?*
GI Bill, I think most of everything I do is Medical or mental health. I would say 90 percent as far as benefits is health or mental health. VA healthcare in Denver. 
Compensation: No. 
1. *How do you typically get information and benefits from the VA?*
That’s a tough one the Denver va has a website but trying to navigate it is like you need a college course. I use the community resources that Denver has. I am not going to the va page for what I need I go to the vet center in Denver where I go for my information. Then if I need an appointment I will go through the va portal to do that. I log in with my information. Any information the va website is a dead zone so I go outside.
Which site: That’s the national one for Denver. The Denver va site.
Not va.gov but the Denver page: No it’s va.gov eastern healthcare page. 

Denver vet center in person: yes. Through the phone and in person. I don’t know if they have a website. 
Eastern health care page for appointments: yes thats the only way. 5 years ago I was going through cancer (leukemia) and I am fine now in remission. I was on the site all the time to make appointments so I got versed on how to navigate va.gov but even so I had to go to outside resources for help. 
## User Tasks

### Task 2: [First impressions]
*I would like you to take some time to look over this web page from top to bottom, and then tell me about it. I'm interested in your impressions of what you see, any questions that you have, and how you feel about it.*
 Yeah first thing is that this look familiar then I want to look up appointments my first thought is not user friendly. I don’t know if there’s a reason why tis talking about life insurance. I have to scroll down to find what I need. Sometimes I can get it here. It's not user friendly and that goes for most gov sites. They don’t make it easy. They have the drop down here, normally you wont look at the va location because you have to deal with the va that’s closest. No one cares about the va, the crisis line is needed in today’s world. Search should be more prominent . Sign in is good you have to have an account to go anything. This is a national page so it doesn’t help me but if I am searching from scratch I would click find location and type in Denver then it would take me to the Denver page. I can start there. Thinking back at least the drop-down menu, it just takes time. Its like searching for anything. 
 
 This is actually better than what I am used to--the drop down [megamenu] covers everything I need. I am not used to this. I would need to compare the Denver site. That’s where I am going I would be here. Everything else on the last page isn’t going to help me. Thinking back they are making it easy to navigate. Here’s where I start getting stuck. I had this issue when I had cancer and making appointments. It took time on the site; I know they are trying to make it better but its not user friendly. This is better. Right there va benefits and health care [megamenu] takes me where I want to go. 

Bottom: I scroll a little and my first thought was health care and it was there with the drop down. Why have me click on it when I scroll to it just have it a drop down. I looked down here briefly and on past experience I never got anything from the bottom there besides maybe phone numbers. Theres information there for all kinds of stuff. Its just so bland and uhgg. Its not cheery. Its just all business, not even a picture. Put a picture there and brighten it up. Maybe I am being weird here. It’s just at least here you get or find what you are looking for. Kudos for the va on doing that. 

### Task 3: [Find VA location]
*I'd like you to imagine that you're planning a trip to another city, and you want to know where the nearest VA hospital is. How would you figure this out from this web page?*
I have had to do that a lot when I needed to go to Colorado Springs. I would click on find va location and type in Colorado Springs. There’s a map but it is easier to type it in. There should be red dots where there are va locations. Some states done have many VA’s. If there are dots I can zoom in to see it. Why have a map. I know what the USA looks like unless when I type it in and then it correlates to the map I could see how that works. The map would be interactive. Off the bat I think there should be pins for VA’s.

### Task 4: [Learn about disability compensation]
*Pretend that lately you've been having difficulty with your hearing, and you think it might be related to your military service. So you're wondering if you qualify for [more] disability compensation. What could you do from this web page?*
That would be a difficult, something I might want to call first. The problem is when you call there’s a long wait--you could make dinner before someone gets on the phone. First thing I would click on is va benefits. That’s the go to on the site. This should be in the middle or something. I would click on disability because in my opinion it is considered a disability then from here eligibility and how to file a claim and check your claim. This looks a lot easier than I am used to. I was on the va website this morning to look for information about life insurance but this just looks easier. Yeah disability then eligibility to do research. This would still warrant a phone call
Want to talk to someone: yeah that’s a difficult and complicated thing. That would be a long ongoing appointment and don’t know if I could get an appointment to see how long it would be. Or if I am at the va for an appointment I would talk to a social worker in person. The end game is I would do the research and file a claim but I would still want to talk to someone. 

### Task 5: [Find a Form]
*Let's say that you're considering going back to school to get your degree, and you'd like to see if the VA can help you pay for it. How might you apply online?*
I had to do that for the GI bill before the internet was as strong as now. Here’s the go to I would go here but there’s a search bar that could come into play. Okay education and training. This bar is the most important. It should stick out. Once this site is out there I would go here almost everything instead of down here. They have education and training. I can look at my benefits that was a long process. I would go to how to apply. This section here manage benefits won’t come into play until approved. I would look at eligibility then how to apply but I would want to call. The va is slow and if you don’t fill it out correctly it gets thrown out then you start all over. That’s why you need to go to the va in person to get things down. Education training, eligibility then how to apply to see if I can do it online. 

### Task 6: [Careers at VA]
*I want you to pretend that you're job hunting, and you're wondering if you could get a job at the VA. How might you do that from this web page?*
That would be interesting. It could be neat to work at the va. I don’t know if the main menu would come into play. I think it might be under about va but lets see. Once again this is my go-to [megamenu] careers. It’s not a benefit or healthcare that’s a weird place, maybe it should have its own bar. Look at this empty real estate here. Go to careers and employment . I don’t know what VR&E is. The things on the right are for later, it wont help now well it does say find a job. I was ignoring it and now I look and it says find a job. My view is changing from bad to good. I would want to click VR&E first because I don’t know that  it is then how to apply, then I would look at find a job or maybe go there first to see if there’s anything available I could qualify for. Maybe find a job first. 
Would that be for at va: this the national va so it says find a job. I assume that it would take me to a page to ask what va or list a va because I could be moving and want to find a va job there. I hope once I click find a job that it will take me to a page with va lists then what jobs are available.

Any other links: I assume va transition assistance is for ones getting out of the military and you are trying to figure out what to do. Then there’s va careers and support. When I first got out I want trying to figure it out doing security. I could see where the assistance would be helpful. When I was in it was here you go bye, they need to help veterans. I would want to see if I qualify or start as a receptionist then work my way up. I see how find va careers and support could be useful. 

### Task 7: [Contact VA]
*Say that after using this website for a while, you didn't get all of your questions answered. How might you reach out to someone at the VA?*
That’s the hard part. You can call and something that works as far as getting what I need there is no better way than walking into the va in person. That always works for me. Depending on the situation I would at least try to call to see what the wait is. Then they have the chatbot I used a few weeks ago but its too time consuming. I would call and be on hold forever and do things while waiting. It says contact local va facility so I would do that. 

### Task 8: [FOIA]
 *Say that you heard of the Freedom of Information Act, and you want to learn more about it. How might you do that from this web page?*
I don’t think it will be at the go-to [megamenu] but I'll look since it had careers. I don’t see it there so I will click at about va which I thought maybe it would be under at first. I haven’t looked down yet. Maybe I should have. I will scroll down to see if it is there. That’s a good question. I am hesitant to click on va news and chatbots are to time consuming. I might have to do a search bar on that one. 

What would you search for: The FOIA and see what pops up because I don’t see it anywhere else. Unless I am speed reading to quickly. That’s the answer there. That’s a good one you stumped me on that one. 

I learned that Firefox typically works better for Figma at work. We always use it at work. 

### Task 9: [Update your contact information with VA]
*Let's say that you recently moved and want to make sure that your mail and benefit information from the VA gets to your new address. I’d like you to update your address from this web page.*
That’s a good one I had to do that before I had to go to forms. Let’s go to my go-to [megamenu] first. Lets see, records. I am looking here change your address. Its back to the go-to bar. If it is this helpful they need to highlight the bar. Make it bigger and stand out. It is a bit of an improvement. I am finding everything I want to look for so that’s helpful. 

Do you remember the process last time: Unfortunately I did it on the site and didn’t get information back. I moved from Grand Junction to Denver when I meet my wife so I did the change of address online to change my medical information. I got no response and finally had to go to the Denver va to do it because they couldn’t track my records. That was a mess. Hopefully they have gotten better. I had to do both. 

What would you need to do form here: once you click on change address, based on the past it takes me to the va forms and there’s different forms. 3 different ones to change the address I don’t remember the different. So I click on that and it takes me to forms. I download the pdf file and make sure it is printable, then send it by email. 

Can you try to find it online: you said that was a dead link so I hate going to the va forms. I click on forms okay there we go change your address in the va profile. The VA has gotten better. I knew it would be in forms there is a form for everything. Okay so you need to change it in the profile that makes sense. 

I don’t know if it would require a form maybe I could do it in my account. Theres no form per say. That makes sense there’s no forms to do. 
How would you do that: That’s underlined so I could click on that and it would take me to the login. I would already be signed in since I’m doing all that work. I learned that when I started. I would click on that and learn how to change my address. May there isn’t even a form. 

Can you sign in and find the profile: what I learned to make sure I am always signed in if I am doing heavy research. It is interesting they have changed the address. Okay I am Cameron. I am looking around and now I would click on that. I assume it would take me to the profile. Maybe no forms are involved here. 
Can you find it elsewhere: yeah its always here. Its  a little different but I click on my name and go to profile. I am not used to that. It’s cool, that’s an improvement. 

## Post-Task Interview 

1. *What stands out to you on this page that indicates this is an official government website?*
Oh well .gov and normally they have it at the top anyways just because it says us government. That seal should be up here. This is how I know and of course .gov. 
USA government doesn’t mean anything to prove its official thoughts: I mean the seal and what I look for is .gov. This area here should be up here in my opinion. Red, white and blue is nice but to know its official I am looking at the .gov.

Want the black part up here: yeah. The red, white and blue is fine but put .gov and official website of US. I like the seal and maybe make the bottom USA red, white and blue. 

Va area: that’s cool I always like the seal and there’s open area for helpful buttons. I have always liked the seal. I like that they flaunt it. 

Black part with links: Theres the FOIA I speed read to long. Normally on a website you don’t go to the bottom what stands out is the landing page. Down here yeah here it is. I just don’t understand why companies do this. Just put it up here somewhere. We humans are lazy. The landing page stands out. I skipped that information. 

You scroll to the blue but not further, did that seem like the bottom: I hardly use websites and its normally just information about the company. Maybe this should be at the bottom and the links should be in the blue. I don’t look at the bottom. That’s the last place I would look for information from a company. 


1. *How often do you use VA.gov?*
Colorado page: I am personally on there every week because I am part of veteran clubs locally. So yeah I get on once a week to check my account. I don’t go to many doctors appointments so yeah maybe once a week. 
National site: very rarely because the eastern Colorado is almost a clone of the national site so there’s not a need to. The only time I would do that is if I am moving and need to do the change of address. I don’t have business to do with the national site. 
1. *Do you use the VA mobile app? If so, how often?*
I have. Its new to me. I don’t think it is useful to me because it is time consuming with the chatbot it drives me crazy. It is better to call. I deleted it from my phone. I can see how it could help other veterans. When I had cancer it would’ve helped me but it wasn't available than. For me right now its not helpful. 

Have you seen this before [opened Eastern Colorado VAMC page]: I don’t remember it being this easy. I have used it before. I ended up going to the vet center instead. Now when I was using this daily it is much better but still as a veteran trying to get things done the websites can be redundant so I call anyways me as a veteran I dread or dislike having to go to the va site because it can be complicated and time consuming so I call or go in person. 

Can you click on the seal: yeah it goes to the national page. [to va.gov]
You don’t come here: no.

First page in the prototype was a drop page not the home page: yeah its all business. See this should be at the top with the icons [benefit hubs]. Use humans are audio visual and pops out. I went to the bar I would still do that but this is helpful so it should be up here. The va is about playing. I guess its all business. I like this so I scroll up and down. They have gotten better but this is the highlight. This is the go-to bar expect I like it here with the icons. That’s neat. When I see this national landing page it will help I will find what I need. I like this. 
1. *Overall, about everything you've seen in this session...What worked *well* for you?*
The best was the go-to bar [megamenu]. It is a shame I have to click on it but all of the questions this is where I ended up going. All of the rest is like whatever. Seems like this was the highlight of this. It will be hidden somewhere then clicking on this. As a veteran it is all about benefits and this is good. 
1. *What was *unclear or didn't work well* for you?*
I dread having to go on the links because it will go link to link to link to find what I need. Especially va forms. It’s hard to say what doesn’t work well because I think it works well. It shows me where to go and I didn’t dig to far. Just make that clear here. Or like this page here. There should be here. That is awesome it makes me feel not intimidated which I always feel because of the time I will be using. They are getting better at this and it needed an overhaul and it looks like finally this has become better for veterans. I don’t have bad highlights. 
1. *What would you like to *change or add*?*

1. *Is there anything else that we haven't talked about that you think I should know?* 

## Thank You and Closing

*Are you still okay if we use any video or audio clips from this session?* Yeah man use away. 
- *(If participant says yes) Is there any part of our discussion that you would NOT want shared in a video clip?* Share it all my friends. I didn’t do much roasting on this one. That was an improvement. 
