# Session Notes: Income Limits App Usability Testing

## Warm-up Questions - 5 minutes
Are you comfortable if I record my screen and audio as we talk today? Yes
1. *I understand you are a (Veteran / Caregiver). Is that right?* Veteran.
	- *(If Caregiver, confirm:) Are you a caregiver for a Veteran? Are you a Veteran?*

1. *What kind of device are you using today?* Computer
1. *How do you typically get information and benefits from the VA?* I don’t get a lot because I am not receiving any VA benefits, so I get information irregularly from the VA. I get it through like Facebook, AOL, I am a member of the Military Officers Association of America, I get it through membership with the American legion, I get it through normal news channels  on tv and so on, newspaper, so I don’t have any formal means from the VA to be honest.

1. *Do you have VA health care?* No

1.	*What have you heard about income eligibility for VA health care?* Income eligibility, that is correct. I have not pursued anything like that. I guess I should correct that. When applying for a VA ID card I probably inaccurately allowed that application to be confused with application for a disability for hearing disabilities which was denied that disability which I agreed with so I’ve kind of gone through that at a minor process some years ago but the truth was what I was really looking for was just an ID card so I could get a discount at a hardware store so that was kind of a strange process when those discounts started coming up oh probably some six or eight years ago. 
I do know about it. My older brother is an Air Force veteran. He’s on 70% disability. I certainly do know about it, and I have other friends who have been on disability, and I have retired friends as well so.

1. *Do you get a pension from the VA?* I do not, and I am far from any area of eligibility.

1. *Do you get VA disability compensation for a service-connected disability rating of 50% or higher?*  No


## User Tasks

### Task 1: [Wayfinding] 
*(if they DON'T have VA health care) Let's say that you're wondering if you're eligible for VA health care with your current income.* Oh lets see. At the American Legion there are assistance officers, I would probably talk to someone there. We also have a local VA office so I might go there. I would also talk to friends who receive assistance. I would talk to my brother. Those are the avenues I would use.
Oh, I would do a simple google search and go to VA.gov. When I type in VA.gov I get VA.gov benefits and I would probably pick that, and that brings up a screen with VA.gov benefit and you see the right side as I’m looking at it, that brings up the VA. As you see my cursor over benefits.va.gov that brings that page up and I would click on that and that would, after waiting for a couple of hours,  Id click it again and that would bring up, eventually. So that would bring a third link as you would see so that would bring up that benefits va.gov. so, I would start looking through there and I would oh lets see. I would go to apply for benefits probably first. Can you see my cursor? I’d probably double click on that. Let’s see, I’m not there yet I don’t think. Depending on how well my…so I would not look at character of discharge because I’ve got an honorable so I’d be looking for apply for benefits home...so I would start looking through. After I left the military in 73, I left active duty. *reads through page* so talking to my services officer here when I was talking about the situation, I discussed with you I was an officer on a ship and I do have some hearing loss and that was the only thing we could think of that I could hang my hat on so I was talking let’s see I think disability compensations so I would probably look there. Probably would print out the application here so that I understood what I was looking at so I would probably double click on that form application for compensation and I would look through that uhm might be on this VA compensation website. I might go to local regional office or see if there was an office close by. In fact, I think we do have an office at a base close by. I might go there although it would just depend so that’s kind of my approach.

*(if they already have VA health care) Let's say that your income just changed, and you want to know whether you're still eligible for VA health care or if your benefits might change.*

*if they have 50% or higher disability rating, do they say that income limits don't apply to them?*

*if they have a VA pension, do they say that income limits don't apply to them?*

*Can you show me how you would find out if you're eligible for VA health care with your current income?*

### Task 2: [Open prototype] 

*What are your Impressions of what you're looking at?* *reads through page* the percentages are interesting. I just visited our new veterans home in flagstaff, it’s actually a state home and at 70% limits you can live for free and that’s an interesting percentage. that’s what my brother’s disability is. And I’m interested in percentages because that’s kind of a nebulous term for people, for me anyway, uh because I don’t know how in the world you determine the percentage of disability. So, I have to compare that 70 with your 50. *continues to read through the page* 

*Could you try to use this to find out if you're eligible for VA health care with your current income? Please explain what you want to do before clicking anywhere.* okay can I scroll? Okay. Okay so I should not click on the underlined blue terms is that correct? If I were going through here, at this point I wouldn’t click on those because they aren’t of interest. Frankly I wouldn’t be spending much time with this because I only served three years and I don’t have anything and that was means years. I left active duty in 73 and I’ve had so many years without any kind of disability so as an individual I personally really don’t ever foresee myself being involved in a disabling condition related to my active duty so to be honest I’m kind of a far stretch for any application. 
Right and his disability is based on his experiences in Vietnam and PTSD so that’s a way different situation. So, there’s where you get into the reality of…*reads through page*…frankly all I’m seeing is a lot of words without really getting to the point. It all depends on how much money you make, is that what you’re saying?
I’m catching here that it is someone that lives with you which puts a question in the back of my mind what does it matter if it’s me that does or does not have the disability and does or does not need the medical care and it’s starting to make it less easy to understand what is going on because who cares if a friends lives in the same house and what they do or don’t make.
*reads through page*
Okay so yeah, I get it. You need to know my income to see how much of my medical bills you can pay. I get that out of this. 
Check our income limits? Isn’t that supposed to be “your”? I used to be a writer, okay so what do I do now? 
### Task 3: [Intro page of app] 
*What are your Impressions of this page?* *reads through page* so in other words, if other things don’t make you eligible, if you don’t make enough, you still may get some money. Okay, so you have other questions to answer. Alright so.
*What do you think you can do here?* so you still have questions to answer regardless of everything else. There’s other factors that you have to meet to determine what kind of benefits you might receive. 
You gotta know where he lived and how many dependents he had and what other benefits he had last year, I guess. so, he’s got to get to another checklist and go here *Get Started*

*Do you think this tool would be useful for you or not? WHY?*

*If not, who would it be useful for?*


### Task 4: [Answer questions in app] 
*How would you use this? Please talk me through what you would do, but do not click anywhere yet.* alright so Id ask myself if did or didn’t get benefits and then go ahead after I clicked one of those two buttons. Okay in this case if were doing my brother I would click yes and then continue. And then VA Aid and Attendance. I don’t know what that means…you got added monthly payment with your veterans…I don’t know what that means so since I don’t know what that means I guess I could either contact the VA or maybe I would find there might be some written material under VA resources or under programs and services or here I might find the telephone number or chat box or someway to contact the VA to find out what VA Aid and Attendance benefits means. Although frankly I would also be able to talk to my brother about those. Did you get this, and he should know that. But I would have those resources. The VA update, not sure what that would do to help although it should be some form of newsletter that would help me figure out what those means. So, I would check no and continue.
He was not housebound.
Zip code, do we make one up? Alright.
Have any dependents? Well, he didn’t have any because he’s older and so is she so zero.
Okay pension benefits okay so were going to leave these all as they are, yes? So, continue. Okay income limits. *reads page* 

- *(RECORD all comments and anything confusing about the interactions on each screen of the prototype:)*
 

### Task 5: [Results screen]
*What are your Impressions of this page?* 

- *(RECORD: Which accordions did they open? How to estimate income / $29K / $29-43K / $43-81K / $81-90K / $90K or more)* *clicked review the information you entered* so this should come from forms I’ve already prepared is that correct? Well, it doesn’t appear to be there.
Well, it seems this is working with my information from previous forms if its saying review. Can we go back to that page? The one that brought me to the review this information. 
I personally would use the back green arrow. That’s what I use for most pages. Shall we try that? 
Review the information you entered because it says how to estimate your income. So, it says we will use last years income so that we meaning the VA to me to determine healthcare eligibility select your households 2022 income range. Review the information you entered, that insinuates to me that the VA has information that I’ve entered already. Now but then it gives me these ranges so it’s telling me that they don’t have that information. So, I’m confused here.
That’s what I’m feeling it’s asking. You’ll still need to meet basic eligibility. Find out if you’re eligible, apply now. Review the information you entered. But yet when I click that what did it give me. It confused me, frankly. Uhm felt like I got to a dead end and then I came back here. Oh, okay so I almost feel like that should not have sent me to another page. That should have sent me down here. Now I’m at a loss here. I’m not sure how to proceed. 

*Can you explain what this page means to you?*

*How is your income involved here?*

*If your salary last year was around $40,000, what might that mean for your eligibility for VA health care?* okay so that means that I would click here, I think. So that would make him eligible for free healthcare for most types and medicine with copays. Well, it would say to me that most of his healthcare would be covered so doctor’s visits to well most cost care to me seems to be hospitalization and so forth although to be specific he would have to see a doctor to find out if it was covered under this program and prescription medicine with copay, you’d have to pay 5 bucks or 10 bucks or whatever when he got a prescription filled. In other words, he would be getting pretty good coverage frankly. 

*Can you tell me what benefits you might get?*

*If your salary last year was around $28,000, what might that mean?* oh then it looks like this is the kind of form where I can click back and forth and find out so that would take away his copay for prescriptions. He would have the same kind of healthcare cause most types of care, but he would also be reimbursed for travel so that would pay a per cents per mile getting to and from so that would not greatly increase but significantly increase his reimbursement for his medical care.

*If your salary last year was around $83,000, what might that mean?* okay so then he loses his…*reads paragraph* okay so then he would have a copay, q full copay so a larger copay for his medicine plus he would have a copay anytime he went to a doctor. So that would you know that would add fairly significantly to the first category and a fair amount to the second category so It’s a stairstep situation, so you know, I don’t know how to characterize it specifically but its life.

*If your salary last year was around $90,000, what might that mean?* Well what I would do was look at that and he may be out of luck buddy. So, then you would have to look more at your disability rating or your service disability…so that’s where with specifically with my brother with the 70%, uh, and with his PTSD where it may revolve around that type of care so we would look at it a little bit differently in that case, so it becomes a very different situation in this case. 
Then you’re looking at factors like disability rating or service history. Having been activity duty in Vietnam is different that just 20 years in the army with no combat history and that kind of stuff.

*How sure are you that these benefits would apply if your salary was around $90,000?*

- *How certain are you that you don't qualify for more benefits*? 

*What if your salary was around $100,000?*

*(RECORD all comments)*

### Task 6: [What next]
*Please stay on this screen. Based on what you see in this screen, what do you think about this information and the question of eligibility for VA health care?* well you know I’m not particularly smart but I have a master’s degree and so on and I this was the first time I’ve been reading this, uhm, its not all that easy to read and if you’re an average veteran and one who is dealing with any kind of disability and challenges from your service I would thing you would need some help making good sense out of this. And right now, I’m dealing with lung covid with some cognitive things going on. Frankly I am 75 years old, and a lot of our veterans need help, so I find some challenges in making sense in some of this. 
I’ve had long covid for 2.5 years so I’m having a difficult time right now if I can just be honest with you and I think that honesty is probably important for what you’re experiencing with me today. So, you are dealing with a population that uh especially older veterans that have been through Vietnam and who are dealing with difficult times right now and I am not. financially I am stable because I am retired from the federal government, so we are paying our bills. Uh, there are a lot of challenges out there in the veteran community, so you know there’s my statement. I can read through, and I can understand what is going on but its not as easy as it could be. But when you get too easy then of course then you uhm you’re not necessarily fair with being honest and upfront so...yeah sorry.

I think his eligibility would continue as it is. He’s a medical doctor, he was a flight surgeon, he’s also a very good student, he studies things well. He is a good advisor for me and although he is still upset with the experience, he is still right. So, he would be fine dealing with all of this and frankly would be my advisor as opposed to my being his. So, he would do just fine with it. He’s a lousy example.
I could figure this out and my income level I would be ineligible for benefits and that’s just fine because again I’m a retired federal employee. I have good benefits that I took with me. And I’m under Medicare now plus my retirement program uh BlueCross BlueShield. So, I’m doing fine without VA. I was only active duty for 3.5 years so I’m a different situation. I don’t rely on retirement from the military so I’m a different example.
Exactly, yeah and that’s fine there are people like me and that’s fine. There are others that are not like me and they’re the ones we need to take care of.
*How would you decide what to do next?* 

*What would you do next?* 

*How did this tool help or not help you decide what to do?*

### Task 7: [Check info entered]
*Now you want to check whether you entered your location correctly. How could you do that?* 

### Task 8: [Change year]
*Suppose that you’re in the process of appealing a health care claim from 2021, and you want to see the income limits from that year. What could you do?* 

- *(RECORD all comments and anything confusing re the interactions on each screen of the prototype:)*

## Post-Task Interview - 10 minutes
1.	*How or where would you expect to find this app that you just used?* As soon as you say app, I think iPhone and I do not like to do this kind of stuff on my iPhone. I’d much rather do it on a computer. It’s just a more comfortable uhm means for me to deal with things. I’m fairly capable on the computer. I don’t find the iPhone to be the place, and again I’m 75. I’ve got an AOL account so that says a lot about me, my son says, so I don’t like the app for the place to do that so I would much rather see it on a regular [computer] screen. 
Oh the VA.gov is just fine, yeah. I’ve found a fair amount of things on VA.gov or wherever. I think being able to maneuver within the internet is just fine. I haven’t found it to be that difficult.
[Do you recall when you last used VA.gov?] Let me think about that for a minute, what was I doing. Uhh, no to be honest I don’t because I just don’t go that often. Our son was in the army, and it probably had something to do with his service. So, yeah.
Oh well the URL is pretty….that’s not very impressive. That probably comes from crossword puzzles. And that’s a giveaway that you’re old because you do crossword puzzles to keep your mind a little flaggy. Sudoku and crossword puzzles are key that you’re over 75 or so.

1. *What worked well for you?*

1. *What was unclear or didn't work well for you?*

1. *What would you like to change or add?*

1. *Is there anything else that we haven't talked about that you think I should know?*
