# Session Notes: Income Limits App Usability Testing

## Warm-up Questions - 5 minutes
Are you comfortable if I record my screen and audio as we talk today? Yes
1. *I understand you are a (Veteran / Caregiver). Is that right?* Veteran.
	- *(If Caregiver, confirm:) Are you a caregiver for a Veteran? Are you a Veteran?*

1. *What kind of device are you using today?* I’m on my iPhone.
1. *How do you typically get information and benefits from the VA?* uh my information from the VA comes directly via email. I get updates once a week basically their newsletter. That’s what I get from the VA. 
Oh, I would just go directly to the VA website. VA.gov if I want information on benefits.

1. *Do you have VA health care?* No I do not.

1. *What have you heard about income eligibility for VA health care?* No, not in those words. No, I have not.

1. *Do you get a pension from the VA?*  No I do not.

1. *Do you get VA disability compensation for a service-connected disability rating of 50% or higher?* No I do not.


## User Tasks

### Task 1: [Wayfinding] 
*(if they DON'T have VA health care) Let's say that you're wondering if you're eligible for VA health care with your current income.* what I would do is VA income health care income eligibility. So, what I would do I would do a google and I would personally look for a VA website. So, I would start with this VA health income limits.

*(if they already have VA health care) Let's say that your income just changed, and you want to know whether you're still eligible for VA health care or if your benefits might change.*

*if they have 50% or higher disability rating, do they say that income limits don't apply to them?*

*if they have a VA pension, do they say that income limits don't apply to them?*

*Can you show me how you would find out if you're eligible for VA health care with your current income?*

### Task 2: [Open prototype] 

*What are your impressions of what you're looking at?* uh so it looks like just a section about healthcare costs you need a rating of at least 50% then there is a section as I’m scrolling down. There appears to be a way to get free VA health care as a veteran. There’s a how to do this, so a lot of links. Sexual trauma, other things that the VA may provide at no cost. Some cost may be associated like a fixed amount. Okay yeah it says copayment. I have private insurance, so copayment is something I’m familiar with. Copayment is based on your insurance and your income level so that makes sense. If you have a lower rating and income, you will probably have to pay less.
I’m assuming this link will breakdown more of what priority groups there are.
Link for current income limits. So, I’m assuming if you are below a certain income limit threshold you may be eligible for….
…based on income or you know, lack of that would potentially get you VA health care which may or may not require a copay. 
So, there’s an enhanced eligibility status. *reads through page* decent section for combat veterans and hazard materials during service.
Now anybody who is in your house to include your spouse.
Verification of information you provide.
VA has to confirm by law. Oh IRS of course, that would be an easy way to do it.
So, you’ll need to provide updated income information. This is an annual thing you have to do. Maybe it’s done during tax season.
It is still getting confirmed, it is just not coming from the recipient, it will be coming from the IRS.
Now were getting into information about copays.
Oh, so VA works with other…oh interesting. They work with Medicaid, Medicare, and private insurance.

*Could you try to use this to find out if you're eligible for VA health care with your current income? Please explain what you want to do before clicking anywhere.* yeah, I could, I think. Uhm, let’s see. So uhm right there where I’m looking there’s learn about VA health care limits. Oh, that did work. *reads through page* looks like there’s a…okay. *clicked on Get Started*


### Task 3: [Intro page of app] 
*What are your impressions of this page?*
*What do you think you can do here?*

*Do you think this tool would be useful for you or not? WHY?*

*If not, who would it be useful for?*


### Task 4: [Answer questions in app] 
*How would you use this? Please talk me through what you would do, but do not click anywhere yet.*
I would click on No I do not get VA pension benefits.
- *(RECORD all comments and anything confusing about the interactions on each screen of the prototype:)*
 Did you get VA Aid and Attendance benefits last year? That’s pretty straightforward. Yes or no on whether…I didn’t but if I did but it would be readily known to me that I was receiving these aids and benefits.
Housebound: not sure I have heard of that so no I did not. Again, if someone were to receive that I don’t think it would be something they would not be aware of.
Dependents: I would have put 1.
Then this is just a standard page reviewing the information that you would have input on the previous pages, and it gives you the opportunity to fix anything wrong and confirm what you put in.

### Task 5: [Results screen]
*What are your impressions of this page?* *reads through page* uhm, okay. 

- *(RECORD: Which accordions did they open? How to estimate income / $29K / $29-43K / $43-81K / $81-90K / $90K or more)*

*Can you explain what this page means to you?* I would just click on the actual range that you income that you make. If I was filling this out, I would just go based on my taxes. There’s no point in clicking on the bottom one because they will verify. 

*How is your income involved here?*

*If your salary last year was around $40,000, what might that mean for your eligibility for VA health care?* uhm I guess I would have to click to find out. You’re potentially looking at free healthcare for a lot of healthcare and a copay with medicine.

*Can you tell me what benefits you might get?* huh, wow. I would assume that most standard care that you receive, routine doctor visits where you know bloodwork, screening for problems, I’m not sure what they mean. I guess I would want to know what most types of care mean but I’m comfortable knowing that routine visits are covered. I would think that most of your prescriptions, assuming it’s just medical prescription prescribed to you by a doctor would be covered by a copay.
A copay to me would be I guess I’m with BlueCross so anytime I see a doctor I pay a $30 any time I see a doctor. It’s a fee. I’m unclear what the prescription copay would be, but it would be significantly lower than obviously what you would pay without health care.
BlueCross if there is a copay, I’m not paying...sometimes my prescriptions are $3.00 so I’m not paying the $30.00. I know what a copay is for a doctor, but I don’t understand what a copay for prescription is.
When I get them filled, I know my bill is only $3.00 dollars so yeah. I would have to look into my own plan a little more.

*If your salary last year was around $28,000, what might that mean?* free healthcare for most types of care, free prescriptions, and travel reimbursements. The biggest differences I see is there is no copay for prescriptions and there is a travel reimbursements. So however, I am getting to my medical appts I will be reimbursed for getting there. Idk if the VA will pay me the mileage, or if they will pay for my metro pass or bus ticket but it sounds like they are. Sounds like you not only will get the free healthcare visits but also the transportation.

*If your salary last year was around $83,000, what might that mean?* it’s kind of confusing to read it, but it sounds like you are eligible for...potentially eligible for healthcare but you have to pay copays for your car and prescriptions. You’re going to get the healthcare but you’re going to have to pay the full copay which idk what that means. I guess there’s a range. I think the other one said just copay. I’m confused about the full in there.
I think the other one said…maybe it’s just how I read it. The other ones say free health care and this one says for VA health care. It’s probably intentional. They’re worded a little differently but yeah, I don’t quit know what full copays means. The more I read it I think its saying the same thing.

*If your salary last year was around $90,000, what might that mean?* I’m assuming that the answer is going to be no. there’s a lot of long wording. Okay so unless you  have a disability rating or service history you are not going to get the VA healthcare with a salary above 90,000. You can receive mental health care though. So even if you are above that threshold, I’m confident that a person would be able to receive mental health care and that link would tell them how. And they tell you how to find out how to get health care. Absent of the rating or service you are not going to be receiving healthcare. 

*How sure are you that these benefits would apply if your salary was around $90,000?* I guess I am not 100% because it says you may not be eligible. So, I would probably click on that link to see. I wouldn’t be hopeful that I would receive the health care.

- *How certain are you that you don't qualify for more benefits*? 

*What if your salary was around $100,000?* I don’t know where it becomes significant. You’re probably not going to receive the VA health care. You can receive mental health care. Unless you have rating or history.

*(RECORD all comments)*

### Task 6: [What next]
*Please stay on this screen. Based on what you see in this screen, what do you think about this information and the question of eligibility for VA health care?* I’m pretty certain. I’m pretty confident. If I was making 29,000 or less, I’m pretty confident that I would get. Actually, anyone who makes 90,000 or less I would be fairly confident that they would receive VA health care as long as they do all they need to submit for it, even without the service disability or history, not so confident over the 91,000 and above. If I was in that, I would you know I would go down that path to see what’s available to me. By clicking on this, and you know I would hope that eventually it would come to submission but from what I see id be confident that those under the threshold, and theres probably a scale, as like how much care you’ll get and what you’ll have. The difference in my mind would be out of pocket expenses. Seems the less you make the less you’ll have to pay for the VA health care.

*How would you decide what to do next?* 

*What would you do next?* I guess you would apply for the VA health care. I guess you would go through, and you would have to provide your service history which is easily verified and then standard admin info on you and then it would come down to uhm. You provide your income but then it would get verified by IRS or Social Security so I mean it shouldn’t be too hard of a process to determine. I wouldn’t think it would be super lengthy, but im guessing on that one.

*How did this tool help or not help you decide what to do?* it helped me. We know what our income level is, so you know where your bend at, so if you need information there are ways to get that information. I didn’t know that there was any possibility of veterans getting VA health care unless you were a rating or whatever and I didn’t know there was health care tied to like income level so yeah, I mean, no matter what your income level is you should check it out in my mind. I’m going to do that because when you have multiple insurances it lowers your cost. So it’s totally worth checking out. Its easy, I mean, there’s no harm in getting a no you’re not eligible.

### Task 7: [Check info entered]
*Now you want to check whether you entered your location correctly. How could you do that?* you can review the information that you entered. If I entered the wrong information I would edit. And then I would hit continue again.
I didn’t expect…I mean it makes sense. I was expecting to just see the last page I was on when I clicked review information. I was on the income summary page. I was a little surprised. I guess the thought process is you need to verify all of your information. In my mind when I’m doing this, I edit my zip code then it will take me back to this page. I thought I was going to see this page but then it went to the dependent page.

### Task 8: [Change year]
*Suppose that you’re in the process of appealing a health care claim from 2021, and you want to see the income limits from that year. What could you do?* I would go to get past income limits. So, and it looks like we can go back to 2015. So, I would go to 2021. I just want to read this real quick. Okay. 
Yeah, it’s similar to the previous questions. The VA aid and attendance that I would have answered previously for the healthcare costs. Things you would know for certain. I’m not receiving it but if I was id know.
So, I currently have 1 dependent but since I’m going back to 2020, it’s not asking for the current dependents its asking for a certain point in the past, so you have to be mindful of that. Some people may input their current number and not thinking and not inputting the number at that point in town.
Then here you have the opportunity to review the information that you inputted. I personally would want to be mindful that I’m inputting the information from 2020 and not now.
It’s pretty clear to me, like no. especially if you’re here to look at that time period, that’s going to be your mindset, so that’s pretty clear to me how you should answer it.
So, it would be similar to the current time period. Obviously, the numbers have gone down. Hopefully you still have your tax return. You would answer this based on the range for that particular time period.
I would go by my adjusted gross revenue for the household for the year.
Yeah, how to estimate your income for this tool. Huh okay, so I was wrong in that. So that’s good to know. So, this means that I could lower my income based on medical out of pocket expenses for me or anyone in my household, education expenses, or any funeral or burial expenses.
To get a full income assessment you’ll need to apply. Let’s say you have out of pocket expenses of 6,000 in medical expenses or say its education, you would need to provide that information and apply to get it.
Let’s say you’re at 41000 and you have 5000 in out-of-pocket expenses, it looks like you would have to apply and get it approved to be moved to a new group. You would have to provide documentation to prove the expenses. You'll need to apply. So I read that as I may have to like, provide someone I met my past medical information from that time period, as far as like medical expenses or education expenses, or even burial expenses in order to get approved to be within that range for that time period is kind of how im understanding that section.

- *(RECORD all comments and anything confusing re the interactions on each screen of the prototype:)*

## Post-Task Interview - 10 minutes
1. *How or where would you expect to find this app that you just used?* I would find it on the VA.gov website. So, for me I would start looking at there should be some healthcare tabs at the top. I would start there and start looking for income eligibility driven health care through the VA.

1. *What worked well for you?* it’s pretty self-explanatory. There’s not a lot of room to input the wrong information. You’re getting the basic information you need. I wouldn’t have to have a lot of my personal information on hand to fill this out. Very basic VA benefits it asks you about that you would know if you have it and if you don’t the answer is no.

1. *What was unclear or didn't work well for you?* just how its worded with again with full copays without copays, most care. I’m sure that’s hard to answer, it may be patient to patient, but you don’t necessarily care about 5,000 people, what are my costs? I think that reads that pretty much everything you need covered will get covered I would like to know that but I’m sure that’s provided by the VA later. It’s a little vague about what some of it means, I guess.

1.	*What would you like to change or add?* maybe it would be helpful to me If there was a definition of what most health care means. Routine visits. I still don’t understand what copay means. I think it’s all good, but I don’t know exactly what they’re saying when they say that stuff. If something is not covered. So, like for Medicare, they’re not covering dental insurance, if something is not covered just put that out there. Like dental or eye. Those are kind of the items I would change. There is contact info available.

1. *Is there anything else that we haven't talked about that you think I should know?*

