# Session Notes: Income Limits App Usability Testing

## Warm-up Questions - 5 minutes
Are you comfortable if I record my screen and audio as we talk today? Yes, I am.
1. *I understand you are a (Veteran / Caregiver). Is that right?* Veteran, Yes
	- *(If Caregiver, confirm:) Are you a caregiver for a Veteran? Are you a Veteran?*

1. *What kind of device are you using today?* an iPhone
1. *How do you typically get information and benefits from the VA?* uh, I’m on their page so I get the VA benefits notices every other day via email. 
I would go online to the VA on my computer. I go to whatever one I have in my favorites. It was given to me initially by the VA so I can check my benefits. It’s the same with my bank. I just go to the link that says bank or America.
I just read the mail and stuff on my phone. Browses on the computer mostly when using the internet.

1. *Do you have VA health care?* no I still get mine from the medical facilities from the us army. I was grandfathered in. its Tricare for life.

1. *What have you heard about income eligibility for VA health care?*  I’ve just heard about it. That they’re looking at, from my understanding, pay as you go if you’re able or a certain percentage.

1. *Do you get a pension from the VA?* No I get mine from the Army. From DFAS

1. *Do you get VA disability compensation for a service-connected disability rating of 50% or higher?* No 


## User Tasks

### Task 1: [Wayfinding] 
*(if they DON'T have VA health care) Let's say that you're wondering if you're eligible for VA health care with your current income.* i'd probably go to google and google VA healthcare eligibility. 
P3 went to google and typed in VA healthcare eligibility income. I would click this first one but its sponsored, but I don’t know how viable that would be. This one looks like its viable. *clicked on health benefits VA page*

*(if they already have VA health care) Let's say that your income just changed, and you want to know whether you're still eligible for VA health care or if your benefits might change.*

*if they have 50% or higher disability rating, do they say that income limits don't apply to them?*

*if they have a VA pension, do they say that income limits don't apply to them?*

*Can you show me how you would find out if you're eligible for VA health care with your current income?*

### Task 2: [Open prototype] 

*What are your impressions of what you're looking at?* I was surprised I didn’t see VA more prominent. Or VA benefits, whatever the title is. But I see a menu and sign in if I wanted to check.

*Could you try to use this to find out if you're eligible for VA health care with your current income? Please explain what you want to do before clicking anywhere.* okay, uh, what I was looking was to see if it had the income limits, but I didn’t see it so then I would check but I was certain that this little menu would work but it wont open so. I was looking for healthcare income or income associated health benefits. I didn’t see it. Check our current income limits so I did find it by scrolling but what I would check first was that which I thought would be an index for this section and it probably would have. So, I would have expected we would use this income information to help us determine so that is probably what I would go to next.
I would have looked for a search button but I didn’t see one so I would have looked in the index that says in this section with the three lines. Typically, that’s a menu for this section but I didn’t see it so that’s why I started scrolling down. Then we found the income when we were scrolling down.
Clicked check our income limits.


### Task 3: [Intro page of app] 
*What are your impressions of this page?* 
*What do you think you can do here?* it looks like I should be able to check based on my disability rating, service history, and income what VA will provide to me for free or at a rate of some sort.

*Do you think this tool would be useful for you or not? WHY?* for me or for someone else? Uh probably not. 

*If not, who would it be useful for?* I think it would be useful for anyone who retired with a disability rating or was discharged with a disability rating or someone like me who didn’t apply initially but then used the VA benefit to go through the process to see what would be covered now and what would be available.
Tricare for life only comes with Medicare as your primary insurance. It’s the secondary insurance but its also the drug portion. Secondary for Medicare. As long as I was grandfathered inside the clinics and my wife basically does not have a primary care doctor and after mine left it took 9 months to assign me a new one. 
If I decide to move, and the only reason I decided to stay here is because I get my healthcare because of the Tricare for life and the doctors obviously because I have the referrals. But if I move i'd look into the VA hospitals. We are thinking about moving to the state of Washington.

### Task 4: [Answer questions in app] 
*How would you use this? Please talk me through what you would do, but do not click anywhere yet.* I’m reading right now income limits and your VA healthcare, but it wants me to get started so I would assume that’s where I would begin.

- *(RECORD all comments and anything confusing about the interactions on each screen of the prototype:)*
 Asks me if I got a VA pension, I’m reading the question because I assume that’s what we will have for the next few minutes and the question is did you get a VA pension from VBA last year and the answer is no.
Then it asks me for the next question: did I get VA Aid and Attendance benefits last year? Not necessarily so no.
Did I get a homebound allowance last year? No
What was your zip code last year? I would put my zip code in because I assume that its gonna try.
Dependents? 2 that’s good. My children are too old. It’s more likely I will become their dependent.
It is asking me to review the information and it is giving me the opportunity to edit it, which is always good. 
It says we use last year’s income to determine your eligibility and cost. Medicare does the same thing. It uses your income from two years ago for this years charges. 
If I put in my 22 income but I know that 23 is going to change based on some event I will have the opportunity to tell you. I sold off one of the IRAs which inflated my income, and I won’t have that income last year, so I won’t have the same income levels next year.

### Task 5: [Results screen]
*What are your impressions of this page?* 

- *(RECORD: Which accordions did they open? How to estimate income / $29K / $29-43K / $43-81K / $81-90K / $90K or more)*

*Can you explain what this page means to you?*

*How is your income involved here?* what I’m assuming is that based on the income level that I choose it is going to tell me whether I am eligible or not for or put quotations around discounts and maximum limits of what I could be charged.

*If your salary last year was around $40,000, what might that mean for your eligibility for VA health care?* just based on this spreadsheet that I am looking at the 40,000 would be in the second level. There’s 5 levels, I’d be in level 2 which is where I am in Medicare at level 2. 

*Can you tell me what benefits you might get?* I would hit the X, the plus. I’m eligible in free VA health care for most types of care. I would be interested in what are most types of care.
I am assuming it is for most types of doctor’s visits or hospital outpatient care. But any inpatient care would fall into a different category.
And it says prescription medicines with copays. For prescription medicines that will charge me something more than zero.
Or in this case, Tricare does not cover.

*If your salary last year was around $28,000, what might that mean?* that i'd get more based on 28 versus the 40 that I would get more. My copay would be less, and i'd potentially get more healthcare opportunities.
Free prescriptions within copay and travel reimbursement. They would pay me if I assume mileage to and from the facilities. 

*If your salary last year was around $83,000, what might that mean?* I would assume there would be limits on health care and copays similar to the first one.
I would not have assumed up front to copay for the doctor’s visits. Same with the lab visits and stuff. There would be a copay. As my salary goes up, my healthcare may stay the same, but the copay would go up.

*If your salary last year was around $90,000, what might that mean?* if it was 90,000, I am going to stay right there. Again, it’s going to be similar to what the 81-90,000 was. There’s some care that they will not do but I may be eligible basked on factors like service rating and history.

*How sure are you that these benefits would apply if your salary was around $90,000?* uh, I’m not certain. I don’t necessarily have 100% confidence, but it at least gives me the start for a chat with the VA. Of course, in the 90000 it has the find out if you may be eligible for VA healthcare so I would probably go there.

- *How certain are you that you don't qualify for more benefits*? 

*What if your salary was around $100,000?* it also said that find out how to get mental health care and it also gave me the option to explore other health care options.

*(RECORD all comments)*

### Task 6: [What next]
*Please stay on this screen. Based on what you see in this screen, what do you think about this information and the question of eligibility for VA health care?* the only thing I would have done is I’m still not certain that it answered my question of what I am going to get. They all say VA health care. What’s VA health care? Define it. Will it involve dental, and vision covered by Medicare and Tricare. Unless there is an associated example diabetes. Medicare will pick it up and Tricare will pick it for secondary for a vision exam. Does VA have something similar?

*How would you decide what to do next?* well I would go back to my little thing and see that they gave me a phone number to call so I would be calling that unless I am near a VA hospital or center then I might pay a visit.

*What would you do next?* 

*How did this tool help or not help you decide what to do?* it got me on the discussion on what care I could get with the VA. It got me thinking maybe I should have jumped when I could get VA health care. What is the growth definition of care? Then each level would tell me what my care would be, but it didn’t tell me that. It did give me a phone number to call.

### Task 7: [Check info entered]
*Now you want to check whether you entered your location correctly. How could you do that?* I would, let’s see, okay well then, I would probably start looking at my little carrots to see if there is a way to go back. If you can see where it has the address box where the .com and there it is review my information and now I can edit my information.
I'd change it then go back to continue to see if the fact that I’m here I might even check Ann Arbor to see if I would be eligible for care because there is a large VA hospital there. Maybe some of the care was limited based on some of the services and facilities based on the zip code. I would think Washington DC would have a few more options.
I would assume when I change the zip and we continue then I would assume this would pop up for Ann arbor now. So now I would do what we did early and look at my income versus the location that I put in.

### Task 8: [Change year]
*Suppose that you’re in the process of appealing a health care claim from 2021, and you want to see the income limits from that year. What could you do?*  hmm. Well, I would go back to see if uh, let’s see, again I don’t see a search cause I would put in your income limits for 2021 to see if it took me to a location.
Ah, get past income limits. So, there we go. Now we can do 2021 or did you want to go back further? Okay, and continue and it's asking me the same questions again so I assume it has the same answers.
Edit, edit, edit, continue and there its giving me a different set of income household ranges so that is what I would do. I'd obviously read the first section more carefully.
Found it by reading the section where we were, and it gave me the option to review the past income limits.

- *(RECORD all comments and anything confusing re the interactions on each screen of the prototype:)*

## Post-Task Interview - 10 minutes
1.	*How or where would you expect to find this app that you just used?* you mean from the main page? I would expect it to be in the index up in the menu pages. I expect income limits or something similar to be in the menu so that I could choose it. I would expect it to be found under google and i'd probably look under income limits or VA income limits...something along those lines. *presentation of information* not really, I expected to have to answer some questions. I might go back and adjust it for Ann Arbor to see if there are any changes. I would expect DC or wherever 10 is, New York to be higher than Michigan.

1. *What worked well for you?* the fact that 1. I would be doing it on my computer but all of the questions on the phone were short and to the point so that I could move forward quickly. I bet on the computer I would think I could answer more questions on a page. I found it relatively easy to manipulate on my phone, more-so that I thought. I do look at some webpages on my phone--Michigan athletics and ESPN. I do monitor what’s going with Michigan athletics and I do it from my phone.

1. *What was unclear or didn't work well for you?* probably the fact that I didn’t have a search capability. And you may have it in the menu and that may be just me picking on the fact that there wasn’t a search, and the menu wasn’t available. I may have used the menu first then the search. When Michigan athletics comes up, I can go to the menu page. They also have one just called events and that will show me what is going on the next week by the team.

1. *What would you like to change or add?*

1. *Is there anything else that we haven't talked about that you think I should know?*
