# Session Notes: Income Limits App Usability Testing

## Warm-up Questions - 5 minutes

1. *I understand you are a (Veteran / Caregiver). Is that right?* Yes. I am married to a retired Veteran. Right now, I am not providing care for him. 
	- *(If Caregiver, confirm:) Are you a caregiver for a Veteran? Are you a Veteran?*

1.	*What kind of device are you using today?* iPhone, I just don’t know which number. 
2.	How do you prefer to receive the URL? Click on.
1. *How do you typically get information and benefits from the VA?* I do not get any benefits right now, but information I get emails.

1. *Do you have VA health care?* No.

1. *What have you heard about income eligibility for VA health care?*  My understanding is it is not based on your income at all. My husband receives VA healthcare.

1. *Do you get a pension from the VA?* No, I will receive a pension when I am 62 years old.

1. *Do you get VA disability compensation for a service-connected disability rating of 50% or higher?* I do not.


## User Tasks

### Task 1: [Wayfinding] 
*(if they DON'T have VA health care) Let's say that you're wondering if you're eligible for VA health care with your current income.*

*(if they already have VA health care) Let's say that your income just changed, and you want to know whether you're still eligible for VA health care or if your benefits might change.*

*if they have 50% or higher disability rating, do they say that income limits don't apply to them?*

*if they have a VA pension, do they say that income limits don't apply to them?*

*Can you show me how you would find out if you're eligible for VA health care with your current income?* Searches is there and income restriction to receive VA benefits on Google. I would look at eligibility. I will keep going since I have not found the answer. Income limits, but that is Reference.com. To be honest I would have thought benefits and healthcare would be one and the same. Ends up on VA.gov with the income limit table. To me this doesn’t make any sense. It is saying that if I make more than $43,000 as a household, we wouldn’t get it.

### Task 2: [Open prototype] 

*What are your impressions of what you're looking at?*

*Could you try to use this to find out if you're eligible for VA health care with your current income? Please explain what you want to do before clicking anywhere.* I would scroll down to see if I could find out before searching. I am looking through all these other links. Still looking to see if there is anything about my income. Check our current income limits, that is what I am looking for. 


### Task 3: [Intro page of app] 
*What are your impressions of this page?* I don’t think it took me very long because I was looking for those key words. I made 3 clicks, and nothing is really jumping at me. I just want to find the answer before I bother applying for it.
*What do you think you can do here?* I like those things that say see if you are eligible. Those are always good for me. Get started, but how long is that going to take? Am I going to go through this whole thing and then be told I am not eligible. 

*Do you think this tool would be useful for you or not? WHY?* Yes from my understanding I didn’t know there was an income limit. If it is a household number that would be found, but if I separate it that would be a little harder. Does it include investments? I would click on get started.

*If not, who would it be useful for?*


### Task 4: [Answer questions in app] 
*How would you use this? Please talk me through what you would do, but do not click anywhere yet.* I don’t know what VBA states for, but I know I do not receive benefits so I would click no. I am not familiar with VA attendance benefits are. No, I do not receive benefits. Now I want to know how I would get that. I do have a VA mortgage, but I have never heard of a housebound allowance. Zip code, that is easy. I don’t have any questions on dependents. I would enter 0 because my husband is senior to me so he would always count the dependents not me. Everything looks good to me, so I would enter continue. Okay now it is giving me income limits. This has not been difficult. I haven’t had to type too much. I usually guess at the household income these are good ranges that I would get the correct range.

- *(RECORD all comments and anything confusing about the interactions on each screen of the prototype:)*
 

### Task 5: [Results screen]
*What are your impressions of this page?*

- *(RECORD: Which accordions did they open? How to estimate income / $29K / $29-43K / $43-81K / $81-90K / $90K or more)*

*Can you explain what this page means to you?* This is helpful. This is what I was trying to get to from the start. Not a lot of choices, you don’t have to have your income narrowed down too badly, so I think that is good. I think this is pretty useful.

*How is your income involved here?*

*If your salary last year was around $40,000, what might that mean for your eligibility for VA health care?* I don’t know until I click on here. It does say household, so I would use what I use for taxes. In my mind that is what I am doing. I don’t make what my husband makes, but everything is joined. I would think everything would be count, investments, savings, and joint income. I would think I would use what was used on the taxes. I would go to the 2nd choice, and it would tell me. Free healthcare and prescriptions with copay.

*Can you tell me what benefits you might get?* I would assume free VA healthcare would mean I would have to go to a VA  hospital for care. Prescriptions with copays is a normal thing. 
What kind of services do you think it would cover? If it was a VA hospital, I would think they would be able to handle everything and if they could not, they would send me out for care. That is where I would go if I was concerned about cost.

*If your salary last year was around $28,000, what might that mean?* Free prescriptions and added benefits for travel. I am glad that is there for those people. As your income goes down the more benefits you would receive.

*If your salary last year was around $83,000, what might that mean?* VA healthcare with full copays, I would want to know how much the copays would be and if there is a limit. When you put it on healthcare, I don’t know how much that would be to cover surgery. I would just need to know what the copay would be. I am more familiar with copays for prescriptions.

*If your salary last year was around $90,000, what might that mean?* You may not be eligible based on your income unless you have VA disability. Oh, that makes sense. That takes me back to my assumptions I made about how I didn’t know there was an income limit. My thinking before well I am a Veteran; I would still be able to go to the VA hospital and receive care. Now I am thinking I may need to figure out if I would have a disability rating unless I may not get anything from the VA in terms of healthcare on my own based off income. I get prescriptions express scripts; how do I get that. Do I fall under as a dependent because I have never applied for it on my own. Maybe I get some stuff because I am a dependent rather than a Veterans. I must go get my own disability or I may not be able to get it because we make too much to receive it. He wouldn’t be subject to it because he already has a disability. To be honest I think he used to be reimbursed for travel. What has changed or are things changing? I would click on the mental health link. I think that is always a great thing to have available for people. I would blow off most of the physical but not the mental.

*How sure are you that these benefits would apply if your salary was around $90,000?*

- *How certain are you that you don't qualify for more benefits*? I am pretty certain maybe that is why I have been dragging my feet. I didn’t apply because I felt bad because I was good, and now that I am getting older, I am discovering there are things that could be counted towards my disability. There is a balance between I deserve disability and feeling like I am okay. There is nothing on here that is encouraging me to do it. There is nothing saying, there is no encouragement to do it. There is nothing saying you have earned this; you basically have to tell yourself those things. I can’t get that healthcare unless I have a disability. From what I read I would not be able to receive healthcare unless I have a disability. 

*What if your salary was around $100,000?*

*(RECORD all comments)*

### Task 6: [What next]
*Please stay on this screen. Based on what you see in this screen, what do you think about this information and the question of eligibility for VA health care?* I don’t think I would not get anything. When I got to this one it was not looking good like it does for lower income. 

*How would you decide what to do next?* I would click on that link and hope I don’t have to go to the county to see if I have to receive healthcare. I would click on the link to see if I am. I want more information just to check. My assumption is that it would have me apply for disability to see if I am qualified. It would be easier to do it online.
*Were you aware of any deductions you could enter to change that income?* No because I would think it is the same as the taxes. It is the adjusted gross income, and maybe his disability. I wouldn’t have thought to deduct his retirement and his disability.

*What would you do next?* 

*How did this tool help or not help you decide what to do?*

### Task 7: [Check info entered]
*Now you want to check whether you entered your location correctly. How could you do that?* I think I would just click the back button and hope it did not take me out of the whole VA thing. I don’t know how to go back other than clicking the back button.  That did work. There is my zip code, and I would make sure I input in correctly. If I entered it wrong, I would click edit, change it, and then hit continue. Edit buttons are good for those who do not type well.

### Task 8: [Change year]
*Suppose that you’re in the process of appealing a health care claim from 2021, and you want to see the income limits from that year. What could you do?* Past income limits click on that. Drop down to 2021, that was easy. That was user friendly. I said no, I think. Okay, it is going pretty fast. I am reading this to figure it out. These brackets are a little different, I would have to remember my income for 2021, and click on the plus sign. That was easy to do. Yeah, I just happened to find it when scrolling otherwise I would look for the search button on top.

Did you think on the 2023 page that was a reasonable place to find past income limits? Yes.
 
- *(RECORD all comments and anything confusing re the interactions on each screen of the prototype:)*

## Post-Task Interview - 10 minutes
1.	*How or where would you expect to find this app that you just used?* You mean like VA.gov. Yes, I would look for it there. Not being familiar with VA.gov I would think there would be different tabs for housing, GI Bill, or other things I am looking for. Healthcare and search. I think I would just Google and hope it gets me to that spot. 

2.	You mentioned VA.gov, have you used that website before? I would think I have. I think I would have used it for my GI Bill. I am careful with making sure it is a .gov website. I would expect it to be on VA.gov.

1.	*What worked well for you?* It wasn’t overwhelming with information I would need to input or tons of documents to see if I am eligible. Other than asking my zip code it didn’t ask me additional unnecessary questions. It was quick and that is important. The brackets were typical. I didn’t have to fill in too much information where it felt painful. That was very easy.

1. *What was unclear or didn't work well for you?* A couple of those terms could be spelled because I get embarrassed when I don’t know what things mean when they are asked. It also makes me start questioning if I should be receiving these other things, and it gets me off track. Makes me want to look into those things.

1.	*What would you like to change or add?* I like that the reading wasn’t too long. Maybe there is some small wording that encourages Veterans to get these benefits if they have earned them. I am a typical Veterans who worries that we are taking away from other Veterans who may deserve it more. Like sell it to me. Just don’t add too much more wording. It is just not warm and welcoming. 

2.	*If you were talking to another Veteran, would you want to send them to this tool?* Yes, I like to share information like that with other Veterans. 

1. *Is there anything else that we haven't talked about that you think I should know?*
