# Session Notes: Income Limits App Usability Testing

## Warm-up Questions - 5 minutes

1. *I understand you are a (Veteran / Caregiver). Is that right?* Yes.
	- *(If Caregiver, confirm:) Are you a caregiver for a Veteran? Are you a Veteran?*

1.	*What kind of device are you using today?* Android phone.
2.	How would you prefer to receive the URL? Put in the Zoom chat.
1. *How do you typically get information and benefits from the VA?* I look online, research. Usually put in VA benefits into Google and see what comes up.

1. *Do you have VA health care?* No.

1. *What have you heard about income eligibility for VA health care?*  I can’t think I heard anything that I can remember.

1. *Do you get a pension from the VA?*  No.

1. *Do you get VA disability compensation for a service-connected disability rating of 50% or higher?* No.


## User Tasks

### Task 1: [Wayfinding] 
*(if they DON'T have VA health care) Let's say that you're wondering if you're eligible for VA health care with your current income.*

*(if they already have VA health care) Let's say that your income just changed, and you want to know whether you're still eligible for VA health care or if your benefits might change.*

*if they have 50% or higher disability rating, do they say that income limits don't apply to them?*

*if they have a VA pension, do they say that income limits don't apply to them?*

*Can you show me how you would find out if you're eligible for VA health care with your current income?* Like what would I put? What would I do? I would go to Google and type in learn more about VA benefits. Most times just go to the first things, and just look at the page until I find what I am looking for. Let me try that again. Google, types in to find out if eligible for VA benefits. I guess I would keep looking until I found something. Would I look for VA disability or healthcare benefits? Types in find out if eligible for VA Benefits with my income. 

### Task 2: [Open prototype] 

*What are your impressions of what you're looking at?* Get to this page and reading everything. Looking. Still looking for the VA benefits for my income. Still looking. Reading. Seeing what other benefits I can get, research. Free healthcare. Keep going a little bit further, I may come back up to review more services. Just keep reading. Probably look at the priority groups. That is probably the first thing I look at, current income limits. Can I click that? I’d read through this.
What do you think you can do here? I am thinking I can see if I am even eligible, I believe. 

*Could you try to use this to find out if you're eligible for VA health care with your current income? Please explain what you want to do before clicking anywhere.*


### Task 3: [Intro page of app] 
*What are your impressions of this page?*
*What do you think you can do here?*

*Do you think this tool would be useful for you or not? WHY?* Yes, just to see if I am eligible before I continue to do more research to see if I could get benefits. I would want to see if I am eligible first. 

*If not, who would it be useful for?*


### Task 4: [Answer questions in app] 
*How would you use this? Please talk me through what you would do, but do not click anywhere yet.*

- *(RECORD all comments and anything confusing about the interactions on each screen of the prototype:)* I would answer the questions and get started. I’d read the questions, answer them, and continue through. This question I would hit no. I would click no, no again, no I didn’t get any allowance, put in my zip code, continue.
What do you think of this question? They are trying to figure out how many dependents we have, how many do we claim, me and my wife. I probably didn’t claim any dependents last year, I would go to my wife to answer this question. Yes, my wife does the taxes. Go over all the information and ensure everything is correct, and then hit continue. 

 

### Task 5: [Results screen]
*What are your impressions of this page?* So far it is just going down and asking the income which is fine. 

- *(RECORD: Which accordions did they open? How to estimate income / $29K / $29-43K / $43-81K / $81-90K / $90K or more)*

*Can you explain what this page means to you?* Reading it and it means it wants more information. Read about the income and click on income. 

*How is your income involved here?*

*If your salary last year was around $40,000, what might that mean for your eligibility for VA health care?* I think you may be eligible so I would click to see. In my mind I feel safe that if I needed to get help, I would be able to go to the VA and get the help I needed. 

*Can you tell me what benefits you might get?* I would probably have to look more into what the copays I would have to cover. Up to so much. After so much how much would I have to pay.

*If your salary last year was around $28,000, what might that mean?* I would feel more comfortable living further from a VA place that I would not have to worry about travel. The most important part there is they cover travel. Free prescriptions and no copay. I would not have to worry about copays with making less. 

*If your salary last year was around $83,000, what might that mean?* Full copays with coverage, I still get care and medications. I would have to figure out once again what full coverage with copays means. I don’t understand that. I would have to ask somebody or look it up to see what full copay means. 

*If your salary last year was around $90,000, what might that mean?* It means I would look through this and it says I may not be eligible for much if anything. I would probably quit looking and going through it. I would just have found out that I am not eligible. I would go down to see what I could get, but I probably wouldn’t do too much research if I was looking for basic coverage.

*How sure are you that these benefits would apply if your salary was around $90,000?*

- *How certain are you that you don't qualify for more benefits*? About 50% right now. If I needed anything I would have to do more research to see if I really needed VA. If I received less than 90, I would do more research. Unless there are other places, I have seen 99,999 I don’t know if it would still be the same. They are just different websites I have been through labeling 89 is just different areas/ranges, I guess. 
*Are you talking about the numbers in the range?* Yes, the range is just different.  I am not saying as odd as an odd number it is just the range is odd. Income is different from other websites I have been to. I am just trying to figure out why they don’t end in 0’s.
Are you expecting to see numbers that end in even numbers? No,  because the 81,899, I would have thought it would have gone to the 82,000 – 89,000 and then 89,999. 

*What if your salary was around $100,000?*

*(RECORD all comments)*

### Task 6: [What next]
*Please stay on this screen. Based on what you see in this screen, what do you think about this information and the question of eligibility for VA health care?*

*How would you decide what to do next?* If I had 29 or less, I would look into it more. The same thing as 29 – 43, I would look into the copays and the limits, and on with the same for the 819 I would figure out what the full copay means. 90 I would probably stop doing research. I don’t know why I would just stop and try again the following year.

*What would you do next?* I would probably go with the 29 over, I would go figure out. Go back I guess and see if there was. I would go back to the page before here. Now I am trying to remember. I would maybe see if there were a form to see if I am eligible to see if that would tell me what the copays would be. I want to see what the coverage is. Look for more information, or I could call. Before I call, I would probably go online more to see if I could find more on the copays and if not I would probably call. 

*How did this tool help or not help you decide what to do?*

### Task 7: [Check info entered]
*Now you want to check whether you entered your location correctly. How could you do that?* Where I put my zip code in, I would go back to review and click this. Check all that and edit if I needed to change it and then I would go back and go through everything again to see if that made a difference. I guess. I would see nothing changed and I would go on.

### Task 8: [Change year]
*Suppose that you’re in the process of appealing a health care claim from 2021, and you want to see the income limits from that year. What could you do?*  Go down and click on past income limits and see how far back I could go. You said 2021, I would put that in and hit continue. Go through the questions again. Continue on my. I would answer every question and answer them again. Answer the questions, it is not letting me. I got it finally. Put my zip code in. Continue. Put 2 in for my dependents. Check my information, continue, select my income for that year, and see if I fall within the limits. I would click my income limit. 

- *(RECORD all comments and anything confusing re the interactions on each screen of the prototype:)*

## Post-Task Interview - 10 minutes
1. *How or where would you expect to find this app that you just used?* In VA benefits website, page. The website I found when searching. It would be on the sidebar for eligibility is what I would look for. 

1. *What worked well for you?* Just answer the questions. Getting here once I figured it out. The information it gave me. You have to ask you the questions before you can get that information. I think that is it.

1. *What was unclear or didn't work well for you?* One is more is more meaning on what copays/full copays are. I guess that would be when you get that information when you find out if you are eligible. I think it would have to ask you the same questions. You would still have to go through to get to that part.

1. *What would you like to change or add?* Just the range, salary range not being so odd looking. Starting with an even write up like $21,000. More information on each line. What insurances you are more covered for and what the copays are. More dollar amounts. 

1. *Is there anything else that we haven't talked about that you think I should know?* I can’t think of anything. 

