# Notetaker Notes

Participant 4 

Date/Time: 1/31/2024 12 p.m. Eastern 

Moderator: Kim 

AT User?: Y, Fusion 

Which prototype first: Purple 

General notes about participant:
- Has previously worked at a blind center for the VA  
- Has taught how to use computers.

Are you comfortable if I record my screen and the audio as we talk today? 
- Yes 

## Warm-up Questions  - 5 minutes 

- Talk to me about your past experience using the VA.gov website?
  - My healthy vet one of the first testers back 20 years ago for MHV there’s a link several links nowadays that you can log into MHV and other, I know I’ve logged into other va.gov sites.  
  - Plus I was an employee. Technically I’m still an employee that doesn’t get paid, I’m a researcher for blind mobility.  
  - K: Type of research?  
    - Patented something, patented bike for low vision.  
  - K last time you used site?  
    - MHV, I use that monthly to order prescriptions and send my PCP emails. And I got a quick story on sending emails.  
  - K have you ever filed a claim for disability using website?  
    - Agent Orange. But I don’t remember it was awhile ago. The most frustrating thing had nothing to do with the website.  
    - I had to go get a ride, for visually impaired is frustrating. I had to get a check up somewhere, some where way off in north, closed the claim too quickly, I was going to add some additionals, could have gotten more money.  

  - K you’re receiving some DB from VA?
    - Yes?

- Could you tell me about the types of benefits you are receiving from the VA at this time?  
  - If they are getting disability compensation from the VA right now, ask: 
    - About how many conditions are you receiving benefits for?
    - Two basically. Agent orange and visually impaired.
    - Just one condition for AO?
    - May be a variety of effects from AO. But my heart issues are how I got connected to agent orange.

## Scenario Yellow: Review 526 with accordions - 20 minutes
K Will read URL out to you, can you find a browser window?  
- I got to find a browser window, don’t want to close any windows.  
- Going to go to Edge.  
- I’m in the browser, ready.  
K: reads URL  
- Fun interaction about NATO alphabet.
- I’m used to using my iPad.  
- Gotta go back to video screen, finding stuff is a challenge.  
- Chat should be at the bottom or at the top?  
- Fusion is excellent bc it uses JAWS along with Zoom tech.

**Screen 1 (Start)**

**Screen 2 (Select new or existing condition)**

K: repeats scenario. This the same screen.  
- Oh yellow, I didn’t notice yellow at the top before.  
- Clicks I am claiming a new condition. 
- Remembering what my computer instructor said.  
- [read through page]  
- Clicks one or more has gotten worse [ both options checked]  
- Unchecks new condition.  
- One of my computer instructors told me checkboxes you can check multiple, radio buttons just one. One or more, Idk how many had great computer access instructors. P4 was my computer instructor, he was great btw.  

**Screen 3 (View my Rated Disabilities Screen)**

Let’s pause on this screen. Feel free to explore it, but please do not click on anything just yet while I ask you a few questions. 
- P4 is talking to me in my head. [reads instructions under rated d]. sounds familiar.  
- Clicks T. scrolls down.  
- Reads ‘please note …’ 
- Maximum button … I have choices. What If I’m at the max rating. IDK if I want to read that. Can I get a rating that’s higher than MSR?
- How do I apply for ratings that’s higher? Getting tired of reading so I don’t’ want to read every one of these.  
- What if I’m at max, just gives me more things to read.  
- Water goes to the straightest …  
- Can I get a rating that’s higher than MS?  
- How do I apply or rating that’s higher than MS?  
- I know what other V to click on the shortest journey.  
- Bc it’s a lot of words and I’m not getting them all. An English major like A’s wife.  
- What if I’m applying and I tried to get max standard? I guess I have to go it, oh good just popped down underneath. Plus or minus that’s good?  

Did that surprise you?  
- I like that it didn’t take me to a new page. “We use the rating guide” I have nice mag with Fusion, but I still gotta scroll. But I still got a question I can click on but not too much reading for an English major but I’m not.  
- [muffled] 
- Reads under what if I’m at the max. yeah, I’ve read this before.  
- Now I have +- and I don’t’ go away from this page.  
    - Can I get… it closed the other … that’s nice.
    - Reads: You usually can get a disability rating that’s higher than the max. oh you usually can’t. Errr.
    - I used to be a private pilot and when a plane goes overhead and I look at the sky and I can’t see any planes anymore. Can’t not long. I like maximum.
    - Depends on the magnification. If I remembered my keyboard shortcuts I can zoom it up and down. I have to get out my old manuals and start studying again.
    - When I don’t have tinnitus I’m learning coding and 3d printing and cad programming.
    - Doesn’t looking like … I’m still looking at bugging my PCP.
    - What’s the other one ‘how do I apply” should have gotten that one first.
    - I like the plus minus dropdown.
    - Select the condition you want to increase.
    - I guess I would go to continue.
    - Well, I can’t get this now. Continue this later, I gotta get help with this tinnitus. I read some sites on that do. At 73 your memory is not what it used to be.
    - Select the condition you want to increase and continue with this d claim. I started a claim??? You need to submit evidence that your symptoms are more extreme than the max rating.
    - I don’t remember my P, how do you it’s increased. I know it’s bugging me more. I told my person there’s 2 schools of thought on your hearing, it gets better when your eyes get less and your feeling gets more intense. One school of thought is it doesn’t get better you’re just more aware of it. Don’t remember if I spoke to a T expert or not. I know T husband said he got T to, and she’s no more. Sorry I’m dwelling on it.
    - I need to continue.
- K if you were in this situation, what are your chances of getting a higher rating?
  - Little bird named P4in back of my head said doesn’t sound good. But P4 never gives up. Sometimes I get tired of listening to P4.
- K you’d probably go ahead and try it at least?
  - What else have I got to do? IDK I guess my screen is P nice, but doesn’t affect T.  I’ve never put my finger on it. Maybe visual cortex in back left side of brain, maybe now eyes don’t use that visual cortex the tinnitus still a lot of research for me to do. I have a webpage on my conditions my [lists conditions] and everything I’ve found and everything down to the rods and cones and ganglia that die.
   - And with asthma and other conditions I have, takes a lot of reading, and when you’re not a fan of reading, asthma, htn, migraines.
- K this is the last screen we need to look at. This was yellow, before was purple. After going through versions do you have a preference?
   - I really like the +- drop down. I have laser beams for retina, but I again memory, I don’t remember, this wasn’t on purple.
- K describes purple
   - Grrrrrrr.
- K what do you like about +-
    - With the screen magnified, you can’t go away much from the VA screen vision. My VA blind center gave me the largest laptop they can get and largest display they can so they can magnify. So with this yellow stays concentrated I have enough vision to see that this third question drown down and away and I have an answer to my question without my question moving. And going to another link you have to go up down all around and I don’t have this maximized bc that complicates issues to. So keeping the information in a pinhole for me, idk about others.
- K it is like a pinhole>
   - Yea
- K is there one that would make you more likely to ask for an increase in T? and one less likely?
  - I guess at age 73 I can remember wen I first rode a bike at 5 but I can’t remember what purple looked like.
  - I don’t remember the words … I thought the phrasing was pretty similar. Positive phrasing. I know working at the VA my friend P4was in charge of a whole computer program at a blind center and me as a veteran and I’ll blame Alex for saying this, he gave veterans a lot more than other people would. Upstate NY is not as generous at California.
- K one thing that’s different between P and Y, one used phrase max D rating, and the other says max standard rating? Is that meaningful?
  - Actually I think that’s a word I would skip over. Or my brain, max, depends on the magnification, I think in purple, and for some reason I didn’t get the whole word. Standard, until you mentioned it I … subliminally probably got it. Standard, for the visually impaired, a … my wife .. the fewer words the better. I know that working for the VA and sending emails out I try to type and type and type and so my email is clear. And I don’t forget anything. That’s my input … but standard, max standard, two adjective? In Maine we don’t use English much.
- What is this screen telling you? What is your initial impression of it?
- What does this screen tell you about your conditions?
- Do you think you are eligible for more compensation?
  - For which conditions?
- What does the phrase ‘maximum standard rating’ mean to you?
- What would you do on this screen?
- (If they haven’t noticed the gray boxes) If you wanted more information about the maximum rating for Tinnitus, what would you do?
- Can you find anything on this page that could tell you more about a maximum standard rating? What do you think those gray boxes are about with the plus sign?
  - (If participant selects first question) What can you tell me about this explanation for maximum standard rating?
  - (If participant selects second question) What can you tell me about this explanation for if you’re at the max rating and your condition has gotten worse?
  - (If participant selects third question) What can you tell me about how to apply for a rating that’s higher than the maximum standard rating?
- What do you think you would do after reading that/those message(s)?
- What do you think you might do here to potentially increase your overall rating?
- This is the last screen for this prototype. Before we go to the next one, can you tell me if reading that information would influence your decision to file a claim for increase?

More and more max and iPad and iPhone, pinch and squeeze, and I’m a proponent for zoom text and fusion, and pinch and squeeze and moving the screen around is, I think its just almost natural. You use your iPad and you can pinch and squeeze, I think it’s jut easer, you get the same magnification, you put your finger on it and move your screen around. Here I have to [missed this], just easier with the iPad. Keyboard shortcuts. I know there’s gestures and things. My friend P4was a master at all that, but I’ve forgotten all the shortcuts. And Steve jobs said, you don’t need a stylus, God gave us ten styluses. Those styluses are more connected to your brain.  

Pinch and squeeze is linear, as opposed to going to zoom text and clicking on [stream of numbers] or remembering keyboard shortcuts.  

K experience with emails with VA?  
- A quick story. When they first upped secure messaging, they just updated it. But I didn’t work in computers for 24 years, 50. So it came out for secure messaging, when you go to reply, when you go to send it, underneath where your typed your message. It didn’t say send it said reply. No send button. And I saw that in new version and called MHV person and they had a contact person with the designers of MHV and they got that straightened out. They fixed it pretty quickly. Probably someone else picked up on that, I got the reply button changed to send button.
- On macs you have an airplane to send a message, for the visually impaired we can wander around for days here, [looking around for the send button]. I love paper airplanes but for a send icon???  

K Overall experience being a research participant?  
- No I like I said at the beginning I have a proponent, I just did a survey about attending confs in person vs online. I’m always a big proponent, I was president of AC of blind of Maine years ago, before video conferencing was Skype, and I pushed and pushed and pushed to get VI impaired people to do Skype bc you can’t drive. You’re visually impaired you become dependent, your wife becomes a mommy and drives you to the grocery. Positive of covid was zoom growing overnight, great way personally for VI to … my only issue is to I try to save money by not having Wi-Fi in house and I go off t mobile Wi-Fi on my phone. Did well today, last time, didn’t do much of this work, bc spent all the time to get me connected and didn’t work. I think I’m at the peak, first day of the new cycle. My hotspot gave me on my phone 500 mb but I wouldn’t get that on my iPad. Luckily any future things I’m going to have to try to schedule in my peak time.  

K: still good with us using your feedback?  
- Yes, Alex told some stories about P4 but still good.

**Things to watch for:**

Does the intervention dissuade them from claiming tinnitus and/or migraines?  
- No.  
Do they volunteer negative opinions about the VA after reading this content? 
- They were frustrated that 10 percent was the max for tinnitus 

**After reviewing both A & B prototypes:** 
After reviewing the two different versions of this screen, which do you prefer and why?  
- Yellow, content was right there on the screen, easier to navigate and read.

## Scenario Purple: Review 526 with link to additional info - 20 minutes

**Screen 1 (Start)**

 - I got the screen brightness down bc of migraines, bc I think that impacts my migraines.
 - Finding the cursor is the most difficult. Finding anything. I don’t use my wallet anymore bc if I drop a 1K bill I’d never find it.
 - To find the cursor, I have crosshairs and a big yellow arrow turns to a finger on purple. Clicking.
 - “file for disabilities” crosshairs full across the Wole screen. I can underline. (reads page title and subtitle)
 - The shortcut I can … (highlights header)
 - I forgot the shortcut to zoom in. But I can … (reads from page)
 - Trying to remember, I want to click on zoom window.
 - Scrolls over apps, toolbar at bottom. Of fusion I clicked on the wrong thing.
 - Opens fusion interface
 - E: alt plus the number
 - I got the mag where I got it, oh, no I don’t. Shift up arrow.
 - Alt plus ?
 - Evan: Alt plus, decrease would be alt minus.
 - When I have the ZoomText window I can shift up arrow and let the zoom tech hide in the background.
 - “one more .. one or more rated conditions got worse”
 - Clicks that
 - Clicks continue, finish application, click on continue. IDK if the window when to the slider bar to see if I’m missing anything in the window. Go to continue.  

 **Screen 2 (Select new or existing condition)**

- File for D compensation, step 2.
- It’s great to magnify but then you have to zig zag around. Check that (migraines)
- Hypertension, website is tarting to give me htn, just kidding.
- Go down, tinnitus, hes.
- I had a good friend who took her life bc of tinnitus.
- Some people thing it was other things.
- Should I read more, I don’t read a lot.
- Move up and down a window, and there’s probably a shortcut, without going to the menu bar.
- Page up and down, I don’t know if may people use that.
- [Selected whole page]
- K top level what this screen is giving you?
  - It’s letting me I’m rating my disabilities and I clicked migraines and tinnitus.
- K what do you think your eligibility?
  - What does it mean to be at max disability rating?
  - Missing stuff esp. with zoom, I just a screen reader but that can be frustrating got get around and you have to know 100 2 3 keyboard shortcuts with JAWS.
  - If I click on this link
- K Do you think you’re at the max for any conditions on this page?
  - Did I miss something? (read conditions)>
  - Oh percentages. Current rating is 50, and T is 10? My ears are ringing right off my head. It should … [reads education] Oh give me a break my ears
  - Migraines, looks like I can increase migraines. I don’t’ see anything (reads through conditions)
  - I got 10 percent for HTN, should I check rated disabilities? (checks HTN). (checks sleep apnea). I got all these.
  - The only one that’s maxxed out in tinnitus. Which drives me crazy.
  - K tell me more?
    - It’s hard to focus on anything if your ears are ringing all the time.
  - K you checked HTN and SA also?
    - Bc it said I have a current rating at different levels so I must be, I’m confused at … I know my primary is migraines and tension and they’re all a pain in the head, but they cause all these other, my PCP or whoever signed me up, I had a computer access, but I don’t know what he signed me up for.
  - K didn’t explain this well enough (explains scenario again)
    - Frustrating to remember all these things that you’ve got. This (all items are checked now). That’s why I clicked don others. I didn’t know these two gotten worse, don’t know if I can get more. Can’t up T which is one of the biggest pains. But if T … eh. Sleep apnea, I could apply that, IDK, looks like I’ve applied for all five if they’re all on this page.
  - K have you ever gotten an increased rating for any disabilities?
    - No, I should.
  - K What does [our education] means?
    - I think IDK, I should file to get a higher rating, if that was enough to drive my best friend to shoot herself. I would think 10 percent is not very much, … yea. Seems like it should be higher. The ability to take it higher.
  - K If you wanted to learn more about that what might you do?
    - Well there’s a link here [ reads it ] . I would probably read up … I’m not a fan of reading. But it drives me crazy this ringing in the ears.
   
**Screen 3 (View my Rated Disabilities Screen)**

- What is this screen telling you? What is your initial impression of it?
  - K So if this were you wouldn’t click that link?
    - Actually I’m curious.
    - I skim. This might be good to read.
    - My buddy P4as well as myself Alex.
    - [reads]
    - 10 percent is quite a bit less [than 100]
    - Yeah my friend P4wants to up his AO.
    - [reads]. You usually cant get. …. Awww.
    - Is Alex visually impaired BTW?
  - K yes.
    - [this is true even if you have the max ….] not sure if a migraine is coming on …
    - My primary would have to .. I think it’s getting worse.
    - [reads: in extremely rare cases you may be …]
    - Your section or higher expertise (misreads first bullet point)
    - The person who diagnosed me rushed through it so much I didn’t get to articulate, how do I apply for ratings that’s higher than what I got. I wonder if MHV tells me what my ratings are.
    - “for a disability claim selected … select … you need to submit evidence” how many DB do you need to submit for tinnitus?
  - K what about MHV?
    - Not really sure how to up these. Seems like it takes forever. That’s the biggest part, no simple thing in MHV dunno if that’s a place to up these. [reads 2024 disability comp rates]
    - I guess if I skim, maybe I’ll get decisions, or health care,
    - MHV is the only thing, other than talking to my primary, maybe he can tell me how to increase. I think he’d now.
    - [if you need help] my friend P4got help from the PA va and got everything he needed, but he’s special
  - K sounds like a good guy.
  - K sounds like it’s a lot to read for you.
    - Yes.
  - K if you had to explain to P4what this page is telling you, what would you tell him?
    - It seems like if he went’ through the whole process to get AO he could probably increase, [muffled] … he should try to get higher than the tiny little bit he got. IDK if he can tell the doctors or mention to the doctor in CA that rushed through the whole process and didn’t give him time to get back to him after he left the appt.
  - K did you notice the phrase XS?
    - Yea. Hmm. Scheduler. My wife is a scrabble master. Bc she would never have enough letters to spell schedular.
  - K you don’t need to find it, just wondering if you have an idea of what it means?
    - I thought I said it out loud maybe I didn’t. Hmm, Yea.
  - K what do you think you would do after reading this information?
    - Have a nice glass of Napa valley zinfandel.
    - That’s Alex speaking.
    - The simplest thing is I would use MHV, I .. uh. In my research I made a field of view … bc the .. sticks your head in a dome that’s one foot that doesn’t really give you a good field of view tester. And for my bike I need to know what my field, real outdoors on sidewalk, got a FOV testers that tell me what’s in 100 feet. My eyes are pinpoint laser … at 100 feet I see 20 foot objects [we need to double check this, I lost some details]
    - I’m most blind within arms reach, the further things are the better I can see. There are hundreds of different eye diseases and RP is different, and P4has RP. But it’s different for almost every person.
  - K thinking about imaginary T that imaginary A has. What would you do about that?
    - Send more countless emails to PCP, secure messaging through MHV. That’s how I came up with the FOV tester. P4 emails his primary care to get help from optometrist but didn’t help at all.
    - Best connection to va (is primary care). The transportation, online is the best messaging. My PCP is very responsive to .. good to have a responsive PCP provider and asking different questions until you get the answer that you want/need.
  - K lets continue to application you were on before.
    - Hits back button arrow. Used to be a keyboard shortcut. That takes you back. IDK want to mess up my screen.
    - Clicks back button again.
    - Backspace, shift backspace. Alt control, .. there’s a button at the bottom, that’s gotta, be, feedback.
  - K it opened in a new tab. Application is in a new tab.
    - Purple? Or is that back too far? Clicks over to old tab.
  - K based on what you read just now, which conditions would you select for more comp?
    - T.
  - K can you set form the way A would do it before you hit continue?
    - Guess I need to go back to the top.
    - “Rate my disabilities” They’re rating me. I guess I’m confused. “please choose the disability”
    - B’s wife says read every word, and I missed a bunch of words.
    - Unchecks A, H, M, I’ve been [lost some of this]
    - I think the T, I just can’t get over, I hate to keep saying this, but my friend {name} … ugh.
    - My little voice said go to top and I did. I think my general VA rating is only 10 percent, and I’m legally blind veteran. And can’t drive.
    - Clicks continue.

  - What does this screen tell you about your conditions?
  - Do you think you are eligible for more compensation?
    - For which conditions?
  - What does the phrase ‘maximum disability rating’ mean to you?
  - What would you do on this screen?
  - (If they haven’t noticed the blue link) If you wanted more information about the maximum rating for Tinnitus, what would you do?
  - What do you think would happen if you selected that link?
  - Instruct participant to select the link if they haven’t already
    - For AT users - make sure their screen readers are able to pull up the content on the explainer page. They may need to have them read out the headers.
    - What can you tell me about this explanation for maximum disability rating?
    - How would you define the phrase ‘extra-schedular rating’?
  - What do you think you would do after reading this information?
  - Okay, now let’s continue with the application. How would you move forward from here?
  - What do you think you might do to potentially increase your overall rating?
  - This is the last screen for this prototype. Before we go to the next one, can you tell me if reading that information that you reviewed would influence your decision to file a claim for increase?  

**After reviewing both A and B prototypes:**

- After reviewing the two different versions of this screen, which do you prefer and why?  

**Things to watch for:**

- Does the intervention dissuade them from claiming tinnitus and/or migraines?
- Are they able to navigate back to the application flow after leaving it?
- Do they express negative feelings about the VA based on the content? 

 
Now that you’ve reviewed the two different prototypes, can you tell me about the differences in how you experienced each of them? 

**Best Explanation**

Between the prototypes you saw, you can probably tell that we want to figure out a way to better inform Veterans about this concept of maximum rating. After reviewing both of these explanations, I’m curious how you would explain this concept if you had to tell a friend about it? 

**Explanation display**

Between the two prototypes, which explanation worked better for you - the accordions on the screen or the link to a new page?  

**Dissuaded vs Not Dissuaded (two themes)**

Between these two prototypes, which do you think would be more likely to influence your decision about whether or not to submit a claim for increase on Tinnitus or other conditions? 

In general, I’d love to hear what you think about your overall experience - being scheduled for this research session, participating in the research session. Could we have done anything differently/better? 

Would you like to redact anything we discussed today? 
