# Notetaker Notes

Participant 5 

Date/Time: Feb. 1, 2024 9 a.m. Eastern 

Moderator: Christine 

AT User?: N 

Which prototype first: Yellow 

Are you comfortable if I record my screen and the audio as we talk today? 
- Yes

## Warm-up Questions  - 5 minutes 

Talk to me about your past experience using the VA.gov website?
- I think I used va.gov yesterday. I use it pretty frequently, an easy routine thing. Sign in, get on, do what I gotta do, hope off. Bc I use it so frequently it’s easy. No hurdles. First couple times a little clunky but everything’s laid out so you just get through it and do it. It’s pretty user-friendly right now.

Could you tell me about the types of benefits you are receiving from the VA at this time?  
- Oh wow, ok. Uh, compensation, and pension benefits. And I have received those for … ooh… eight years. And I’m also receiving, used to be VR&E benefits, not sure how they renamed those. And all of my healthcare I receive through the VA.


If they are getting disability compensation from the VA right now, ask: 
About how many conditions are you receiving benefits for? 
- I could not receive any better care at any health facility than I do at the VA. I’m treated with respect and I can get care from a-z all in one day, all in one facility. These people are doing it as a labor of love, sure they could get twice the money, but they’re doing it at the VA for veterans. If I see my PCP and I need an x-ray, he’ll ask me if have a couple minutes and he’ll call down to x-ray. By the time I get there they’re waiting for me, by the time I get back to the PCP, he already has the results. You can’t do that anywhere else. You have to go across town, and you have to wait, and have someone read them, takes a course of a week and you’ve missed work, you’re frustrated. I just get a few more steps in that day, find out almost immediately it’s just a bruise, and treated with respect. If you go down to the pharmacy I have a prescription for you down there. Just a fantastic way for veterans to be treated. I just … I’m sold. I can’t say enough good things about the professionals that work there.  

## Scenario Yellow: Review 526 with accordions - 20 minutes 

- Is unable to open the links on his work laptop so he has to switch to his personal laptop.
- Lots of chit chat here, he’s really impressed at the VA being so large and still providing good care to veterans.
- P5: How many folks are you working with like me today?  
    - We’re trying to speak to 6-8 but we do this every couple of months.  

**Screen 1 (Start)**

**Screen 2 (Select new or existing condition)**

(screen sharing is slow)  

- Application saved at every change is great. Not sure it was a feature before.
- Clicks one or more conditions gotten worse
- Clicks continue
- That’s oen thing at a time and then yo umove on, that’s good 

**Screen 3 (View my Rated Disabilities Screen)**

Let’s pause on this screen. Feel free to explore it, but please do not click on anything just yet while I ask you a few questions. 
- Clicks migraines, then tinnitus rather quickly


What do you think about eligibility from this screen? 
For which conditions?  
- T I think you can only get 10 I don’t think more. Migraines I would have to read this to find out (max standard rating) I’m not sure you can get anymore for Migraines. That’s something I have to look into. But it’s there. (how would he look into this?) 


(If they haven’t noticed the gray boxes) If you wanted more information about the maximum rating for Tinnitus, what would you do? 
- Opens first gray bar, then second.  
- Reads through content on second.  
- It says that you can get higher htan a max, but it’s rare. It has to be severe and extreme. Possible, yes, porbable, no. Yes you can, you better have some really good documentation to follow up with it.  
- And here you go (third gray bar) … reads … it’s telling you yes, you should go ahead and apply for it, and they’re going to lead you through the steps to do that with. That’s a good feature, it’s not telling you no, it’s leading you down the path to say yes, lets do this. It’s a positive and not the standard no, that a veteran would be used to. I think that’s very positive how it lays things out and explains how you can do this, and hwne it’s possible and what it requires, and can you do it?  
- I think a very nice feature.  


What do you think you might do here to potentially increase your overall rating? 
- I think if I felt strongly that I had documentation that mi migraines and T had gotten worse, and that I should have a higher compensation rating, then I would go ahead and conitnue. If I didn’t think I had the … if I had done self care, for my tinnitus or migraines, then I might say umm, finish this application later. Or … let me put it this way. If I didn’t’ receive care at the VA but at an outside provider, I might say finish later to get all my documentation to bring so I can say ok, I wanna do everything I can to support my thoughts and my statements, so that whoever is reading this doesn’t have to go find, wait for six – ten weeks to get the information from an outside provider.  
- This gives everybody the opportunity to finish later, which means go get more documentation from an outside provider, if you’ve been doing self care maybe you should start going to urgent care or documenting it yourself, or if you’ve already got it and you’ve sought care at the VA then you could hit the continue button and see if … what the next step is.  


This is the last screen for this prototype. Before we go to the next one, can you tell me if reading that information would influence your decision to file a claim for increase?  
- TO me this reinforces my thought of you know coming here in the first place. Thinking that I want to increase my compensation bc my conditions have gotten worse. Yes, I am a big fan and think that this is very positive. And reinforces it. And like I said it lays it out to where you know can you should you, yes. It gives you the options.  
- Backstory – not that it’s a determining factor, not only do I have my undergrad degree I have an MBA and I was enlisted, I’m quite the anomoly when I’m going through this and deciphering all the different levels nad what needs to be done is easier than the average bear who just has a high school degree. I can generally read and understand and figure out what they’re asking pretty quick and easy.  
- I would … continue. In this secnario bc I do think my M and T have gotten worse and this just confirms that yes  I should. I would continue on.  

**Things to watch for:**

Does the intervention dissuade them from claiming tinnitus and/or migraines?  
- Nope! 

Do they volunteer negative opinions about the VA after reading this content? 
- No, positive opinions in fact 

**After reviewing both A & B prototypes:**

After reviewing the two different versions of this screen, which do you prefer and why?  

## Scenario Purple: Review 526 with link to additional info - 20 minutes 

**Screen 1 (Start)**

**Screen 2 (Select new or existing condition)**

**Screen 3 (View my Rated Disabilities Screen)**
- Clicks migraines and T quickly


Do you think you are eligible for more compensation? 
For which conditions?  
- For the migraines yes, for the T no. that’s you’re already at the max. But in my mind again, if you don’t doucment it it never really ahppened. I would go ahead and put the new documentation in. You’re not going to get any more, so probably not.  
- IDK two trains of thought. If yo udont’ doc it never happened. If you’re seeking care at the VA, they already have it. If yo’re seeking it outside in the community, you probably want to get that doucmentation and have it uploaded to your file. Do you want to e 
- Every time you file for an increase, the VA has the right to go through each of your conditions and when they go through if something has gotten better they could decrease that rating. You could increase M but you could decrease SA. So do you wanna take the chance on that? So IDK if I would do anything with the T. I might leave that, but with the migraines yes, I would do that. Asthma, yeah. I would concentrate on the migraines and leave the T alone if I had more documentation uploaded to my file, but probably wouldn’t check the box for it. That’s just my personal opinion.  


What does the phrase ‘extra-schedular rating’ mean to you? 
- That’s … that’s where a higher than the max disability rating. Like you say, those are the extreme ratings,  
- The …. The very few are considered fo XS even if you have the max rating in extremely rare cases you may be eligible. (reads) they lay it out for you, you phrase it really well. Once or twice, each of these descriptions must be true. That’s an imperitive. You have to have these two things. Your symptoms or experience are so severe (continues to read).  
- Your migraines are so debilitating you have to say in a nursing home in solitude and quiet bc you can’t function anymore. Your symptoms or experience … yeah you can’t function in society anymore bc of your M.  
- The must, … that explains exactly what it is. Extremely rare, the phraseology is very spot on. To say, yes, you can, but it’s not very often. Think about it. Let’s be logical, just because you have M is that … do you really think that’s a cause or is that extremely rare. Lots of people have M but is yours that much different than the other part of the population.  


(If they haven’t noticed the blue link) If you wanted more information about the maximum rating for Tinnitus, what would you do? 
- Hovers over what does it mean and click the link, and,  (reads the page)  
- (we’re not seeing the new tab)  
- Somebody who is not as familiar with it as a novice or even ai mid range compensation and pension, well how can I be at the max disablity why can’t I get 20 percent or 30 percent. This just tells you every d has a max rating which is the highest. Just tells you …  
- You can’t get anymore.  
- Well, and it says, can I get a rating that’s higher? Usually can’t. Tells those extreme cases when you can but I don’t think for T that’s gonna happen. You might have secondary you may have hearing issues, but for T you’re only ever going to get 10 percent.  


What do you think you would do after reading this information? 
- I would uncheck the box for T, and then I would probably hit the finish this app later, and think about it, go back and do some research on migraines and see what 50 percent rating is, the language that is required for 50 percent rating, and look to see what language and what symptoms need to be for the next higher rating, does my documentation meet that min standard. That’s what all that says to me.  
- I think it lays it out, someone who is more of a novice may go ahead and say I’ve gotten this far I’m going to continue. You may be disappointed if they don’t have everything lined up. If they’ve been to the urgent care for an M once since their initial decision they’re probably going to get denied. That’s up to them, they’re going to have to learn the system. Not game the system, but the documentation needs to fully support that your condition has gotten worse and one flare up is not going to meet the standard.  

**After reviewing both A and B prototypes:**

After reviewing the two different versions of this screen, which do you prefer and why? 
- I like both of them. (seems to still be navigating in the new tab, does not return to previous tab until prompted).  
- How did you nav back? I just closed out of the link.  
- I think both of them are very good, I very impressed with them. I think you’re spot on.  


Now that you’ve reviewed the two different prototypes, can you tell me about the differences in how you experienced each of them? 
- If it says max disability rating, I would caution them to leave it alone unless it was a condition that was life altering. If it caused them to either be in the hospital, bed ridden at home, or not fully interact with society, don’t consider it at this time. If it’s a M, if SA has gotten worse, if your documentation supports it, you can give it a go. But if you’re at the max rating for T yeah, (shakes head no) I wouldn’t open that can of worms.  
- It tells you exactly what and why you really wouldn’t want to.  

**Dissuaded vs Not Dissuaded (two themes)**

Between these two prototypes, which do you think would be more likely to influence your decision about whether or not to submit a claim for increase on Tinnitus or other conditions? 
- (reading through the info boxes on Yellow).  
- Now going back and reviewing. The Purple is a little more explanatory. To me. The yellow does give it all in one page which I’m sure a lot of people would find and it does tell you basically if you are at the max you’re at the highest you can get. It does tell you the same information, I’m just no as fond of this format as I am in the purple. Just personal preference.  
- It does give you the same information. So … yeah, I could go either way and tell you it’s a win, and I think you would get a better outcome than what is currently there.  


Would you like to redact anything we discussed today? 
- No ma’am I’m all good.  
- Something that’s difficult to make it easier for the Veterans is always appreciated.  
