# Notetaker Notes

Participant 6 

Date/Time: February 1, 2024 

Moderator: Christine 

AT User?: N 

Which prototype first? Purple 

Note: called in on iPhone 

Are you comfortable if I record my screen and the audio as we talk today? 
- Okay

## Warm-up Questions  - 5 minutes 

Talk to me about your past experience using the VA.gov website?  
- The problem I’m having is I’ll set my password and the next day I go in there and it’s not the right password. I have to keep resetting it. I;ve called and they walked me through, and then it said restart your password, and I needed to reset it again. Dunno if its glitch on their end or my end.  
- Before it was easy, all the va.gov id.me every day I have to reset my password. I’ll call the helpdesk today. Last time they had my birthday wrong, I’ve been using the system for years, IDK if it glitched out my bday wrong.  

Could you tell me about the types of benefits you are receiving from the VA at this time?  

If they are getting disability compensation from the VA right now, ask: 
About how many conditions are you receiving benefits for? 
- I do the tax thing, I look for different letters, go through and see your medical stuff, prescriptions, that’s all I do on there.  
- Yea, that’s disability and once my husband passed, I had to change my dependent in there. I still get a disability.  

## Scenario Yellow: Review 526 with accordions - 20 minutes 

**Screen 1 (Start)**

**Screen 2 (Select new or existing condition)**

**Screen 3 (View my Rated Disabilities Screen)**

Let’s pause on this screen. Feel free to explore it, but please do not click on anything just yet while I ask you a few questions. 


What is this screen telling you? What is your initial impression of it? 
- Then I like the fact on the back screen you can finish this application later, so I’m thinking that it saves (reads green box) and they give you a number. You can continue, IDK if it did it before bc I just completed everything, but sometimes time and you got something else to do, and you can go back and not go all the way back to one.  
- Number two – below  
- On T you’re at the max standard rating, you wouldn’t even file for that bc you are at your max. (cuts out)
- I would just roll with the 10 percent.  


(If they haven’t noticed the gray boxes) If you wanted more information about the maximum rating for Tinnitus, what would you do? 
- Click on this (first accordion)  
- What if I’m at the max standard rating? Reads.  
- For T so if I felt it was really that bad more than 10 percent I would go, they could tell me no but I can try and then I wouldn’t wonder. My husband has passed, not knowing if I could have done more.  
- Reads throgh second accordion.  
- Then opens third.  
- (reads)
- They’re giving you the option. You need to submit evidence, that’s agood thing. To me I would have my evidence already, they’re telling you to submit it for your symptoms.  
- The va gives you a year, that feels like a long time but you forget.  


What do you think you would do after reading that/those message(s)? 
- If I did a claim I would get my evidence and I would file and let the VA let me know. Bc you’ll be spending the rest of your life wondering what if.  
- Would file an increase. I like that at the bottom you have a phone number and you can contact your VSO.  
- Some people may get up in the middle of the night, they don’t’ have time to go to a VSO during the daytime. You’re giving them options, that’s what I like.  

## Scenario Purple: Review 526 with link to additional info - 20 minutes 

**Screen 1 (Start)**

**Screen 2 (Select new or existing condition)**
- (reads through page) 

**Screen 3 (View my Rated Disabilities Screen)**
- Reads each word out loud. Scans through, clicks continue quickly.


Do you think you are eligible for more compensation? 
For which conditions?  
- I think it’s great that, I never knew you could go back for an increase, I thought once you were rated you were rated. BC like you said things may have gotten worse. I think that’s a good screen.
- Yeah bc I’m on a veterans group and people are like I’m rated this and it’s worse what do I do . 
- A lot f people thing once you’re at 100 percent you have to stay there, you can’t get an increase bc you’re at a hundred.  
- I think you’re eligible for all of them, even if you’re rated at 0 it can get worse. Versus, so like with this and the migraines, I think you can get rated all of them. That’s a good thing to see.  


What does the phrase ‘maximum disability rating’ mean to you? 
- When you say maximum that means that that’s the most the VA will give you. When I person who doesn’t know to click on that they will think they’re at the max. you can’t get 100 percent, yo’re already rated at 100 percent you can’t increase. So a lot of people like me if it gets worse it gets worse. Now you know you can go to the max. Vs thinking you can’t get any more than overall at 100 percent.  


(If they haven’t noticed the blue link) If you wanted more information about the maximum rating for Tinnitus, what would you do? 
- I would click on this (the link) and if I didn’t understand it I’d schedule an appt with a VSO. So they can explain how to get it up to the max rating.  


Instruct participant to select the link if they haven’t already 

*(For AT users - make sure their screenreaders are able to pull up the content on the explainer page. They may need to have them read out the headers.)*

What can you tell me about this explanation for maximum disability rating? 
- (reads quietly) 
- I like it bc it’s explaining to you. First q is what’s a d rating? And then two, if I get a max rating, for some disabilities (reads). So it’s telling the soldier that even though my asthma has gotten worse, why you not getting 100, the max may be 50 percent. Where I can go in there with arthritis, that can go at 100 percent. Gives the soldier something to think about. You get frustrated wne you send papers and papers and all you get is this is … 
- This is explaining to the solder (missed this)  
- It says you usually can’t get a disablity rating higher than the max, this is true even if yo uhave a max or yoru D gets worse. It’s rare to get this, it gives you something to shoot for. So for me, it’s telling me that I have a chance of getting more than 100 percent, I can take that chance and/or be done with it.  


How would you define the phrase ‘extra-schedular rating’? 
- To me … uh … maybe if I got cancer from that disability. That would be extra. Or I have asthma, so now I’m breaking oxygen, tha twould be extra. Normaly I just take my inhaler and go. The oxygen prevents me from hainging out with my g kids, going up and down stairs, can’t go to concerts.  
- You have hindered my lifestyle. I like to go, if my ashtma gets worse then I can’t go. A lot of things change your hole life bc of this D.  

What do you think you would do after reading this information? 
- I would apply for another claim, I like to go to the VSO, they’re more knowledgeable. You can go on a lot of these websites and they may take you to ac ertain portion of it. But a VSO who knows this can get you more indepth.  
- People get frustrated bc they’re on Facebook and they say hey I did this nad now I’m mad, Why would you go with a ? [military] lawyer when you can go with an actual lawyer.  
- I can write it on paper but If I can see you I can write all this 
- A lot of times they may inflate it, you’re more apt to help and feel compassionate bc you can see what a person is going through.  


Okay, now let’s continue with the application. How would you move forward from here?  
- I would applly for everyting and make an appointment with the VSO, and they can see that I applied.  
- Then they start shceduling for appointments. Then I’d start gathering my medical records. Va is 100 miles for me so I would get those from my private doctor. You can add all the stuff in intake, and I would have all my stuff ready.  
- Easy to get ready and be ready and to wait, then I have to go from here to there to find a piece of paper. And then I get frustrated but it’s not VA that’s frustrated it’s yourself bc you didn’t do your homework.  
- (navigates back to the page, but not sure how)  
- Then it says continue.  
- Normally va you do a claim within a couple of days they will send you something saying we got yoru claim, or you can go into the portal and see it yourself. I see they have it at phase 2, etc.  


This is the last screen for this prototype. Before we go to the next one, can you tell me if reading that information that you reviewed would influence your decision to file a claim for increase?  
- Yes. BC I always thought at being at 100 percent you’re just there, now I’m seeing that I have conditions that have gotten worse, and this person has some at 0 so they can apply for an increase.  

**Best Explanation**

Between the prototypes you saw, you can probably tell that we want to figure out a way to better inform Veterans about this concept of maximum rating. After reviewing both of these explanations, I’m curious how you would explain this concept if you had to tell a friend about it? 
- Whatever your claim is, you can do a max, you can increase it. You can log into your system and I can show you where you can do your maximum.  
- You file your claim and let the VA tell you. I just assume that if you’re at 100 percent you’re at your 100 percent.
- That’s great.  

**Explanation display**

Between the two prototypes, which explanation worked better for you - the accordions on the screen or the link to a new page?  
- I Like the boxes, better to see it in your face and I can click on these boxes. It’s better if I click on the boxes, I’m a visual person, it’s in my face instead of clicking on this link and it takes you to this link, just click on the boxes and hit continue and keep going,  

**Dissuaded vs Not Dissuaded (two themes)**

Between these two prototypes, which do you think would be more likely to influence your decision about whether or not to submit a claim for increase on Tinnitus or other conditions? 
- Two would be more influence. It’s right here I don’t have to click links and links. You get timed out and you get frustrated, and don’t finish it. But if it’s right here I click on in and keep going. I’d rather do this and keep it moving.  

In general, I’d love to hear what you think about your overall experience - being scheduled for this research session, participating in the research session. Could we have done anything differently/better? 
- No the only thing is I should have did is remember the different time zones. You’re eastern. Other than that, that was fine and that was my fault, I usually look to see what time zone a person is.  
- And you call me with so many spam calls, that’s all you get all day.  

Would you like to redact anything we discussed today? 
- It’s nice to know that people care that don’t even, åI don’t even know if you served but you can listen to someone and take notes and do something with the feedback.  
- I have a feel you both like your jobs.  
