# Notetaker Notes

Participant #: 9 

Date/Time: 2/2/24 

Moderator: Christine 

AT User?: N 

Saw first: Yellow/Purple 

Are you comfortable if I record my screen and the audio as we talk today? 
- Yes

## Warm-up Questions  - 5 minutes 

- 18 years to get to 100%. About a year ago. It’s absurd.  
- Has done several research sessions already so familiar with how it works. 

Talk to me about your past experience using the VA.gov website?  
- I didn’t use the website usually. Supposedly dealt directly with the VA. Maybe I shouldn’t have done that.  
- Use the messaging to talk to my doctors. Order my medicine online for home delivery. It’s great! 

Could you tell me about the types of benefits you are receiving from the VA at this time?  
- Disability benefits, health care. 
If they are getting disability compensation from the VA right now, ask: 
About how many conditions are you receiving benefits for? 
- Looking for reference material. 
- My rating was based on 6 or 7 things. started with Agent Orange. Was in Vietnam in 69. It blossomed as I found out you could get compensation for this or that. Through talking to Vets. 

## Scenario Yellow: Review 526 with accordions - 20 minutes 

**Screen 1 (Start)**

**Screen 2 (Select new or existing condition)**

**Screen 3 (View my Rated Disabilities Screen)**

Let’s pause on this screen. Feel free to explore it, but please do not click on anything just yet while I ask you a few questions. 

What is this screen telling you? What is your initial impression of it? 
- Scrolls down. Notices the accordion. It’s the same three answers that were on the other page. 

What does this screen tell you about your conditions?  

Do you think you are eligible for more compensation? 

For which conditions?  
- Hypertension. You’re rated at 10%, you’re not going to get any more than what you’re rated for. 
- You could stand on your head, they’re not going to give you any more.
- the way they combine it is STUPID. 
- “These re the feeling sof a Vet who’s been through this and put up with this nonsense. ... Take what you can get and move on.” 

What does the phrase ‘maximum standard rating’ mean to you? 

What would you do on this screen? 
- I’d go for hypertension. Only 10%, but a little bit is better than nothing. 
- “Thye’re gonna make you fight tooth and nail to get it. That’s the main problem. You have to fight so much.” 

(If they haven’t noticed the gray boxes) If you wanted more information about the maximum rating for Tinnitus, what would you do? 

Can you find anything on this page that could tell you more about a maximum standard rating? What do you think those gray boxes are about with the plus sign? 

If you’re interested, read it. 
- Is interpreting the Hypertension 10% as saying you’re not going to get any more.

CS: Why won’t you get more than 10%? 
- Because they’re already decided. 
- These raters, they don’t care. They don’t give a damn about you. They’re just interested in sending the government money. Hoping you’re going to eventually quit and stop bothering you. If you get a 100%, you won and they lost. With the raters I’m sure it’s nothing personal, they’re just doing what they’re told to do. 

(If participant selects first question) What can you tell me about this explanation for maximum standard rating? 
- reads first section. It just tells you “you got what you got” self explanatory 
- Second heading: why they’re going to tell you no. Doesn’t read it. Doesn’t notice the XS content.
- Third heading: Reads it.  

(If participant selects second question) What can you tell me about this explanation for if you’re at the max rating and your condition has gotten worse? 

 (If participant selects third question) What can you tell me about how to apply for a rating that’s higher than the maximum standard rating? 

What do you think you would do after reading that/those message(s)? 
- To me, it’s very cut-and-dry. I’d click Continue and see what’s next. 

What do you think you might do here to potentially increase your overall rating? 

This is the last screen for this prototype. Before we go to the next one, can you tell me if reading that information would influence your decision to file a claim for increase?  

## Scenario Purple: Review 526 with link to additional info - 20 minutes 

**Screen 1 (Start)**

**Screen 2 (Select new or existing condition)**
- I do have tinnitus from the helicopter. The ringing is constant. Wears hearing aid the VA gave him to help. 

**Screen 3 (View my Rated Disabilities Screen)**
- 10% that’s exactly what I got for Tinnitus.  
- (He doesn’t quite understand that he’s doing an imaginary scenario) 

What is this screen telling you? What is your initial impression of it? 

What does this screen tell you about your conditions?  

Do you think you are eligible for more compensation? 
- For Tinnitus – they just rate it at a flat 10%. You’re not going to get any more for it. 

What does the phrase ‘maximum disability rating’ mean to you? 
- It means What you see is what you get. 
- You can try all you want to and they’re not going to raise it. Someone’s already decided that that’s max. 

What would you do on this screen? 
- I’d go on to something else. 
- Maybe I’d look at Hypertension and try that. Or sleep apnea. 
- “Keep going! Never quit.” 

(If they haven’t noticed the blue link) If you wanted more information about the maximum rating for Tinnitus, what would you do? 
- Notes the link. I’d click on it. 

What do you think would happen if you selected that link? 

Instruct participant to select the link if they haven’t already 
- Scans through headlines.

What can you tell me about this explanation for maximum disability rating? 
- It defines it, that’s all. 
- I didn’t read through all of them. 
- Goes through each headling. 
- On “can I get a rating..” he says “I haven’t read it, but I’m sure it says “No you cannot.” 
- It defines it quite well. 

How would you define the phrase ‘extra-schedular rating’? 

What do you think you would do after reading this information? 
- Decide whether I’m going to chase it forever. 
- the only ones they change are the more serious ones. Like PTSD. They changed it 3 times. I think that was the cross-over point for getting 100%. (my interpretation: maybe he’s rated for PTSD at 70%) 

Okay, now let’s continue with the application. How would you move forward from here?  
- I’d use the back button if possible. And pick another one. 
- No back button? 
- I’d click on the link in the breadcrumb. 
- It takes me back to the previous page. 

What do you think you might do to potentially increase your overall rating? 
- NEVER GIVE UP! 
- I started with Tinnitus for 10%. Then they gave me a little bit for Agent Orange. Then, I had a stroke in 2005. They disagreed with that one as being related to my military service. Without looking at the paper which I can’t find, it tells me what the ratings are and which ones they’re for. 

This is the last screen for this prototype. Before we go to the next one, can you tell me if reading that information that you reviewed would influence your decision to file a claim for increase?  
- If you got it, and you’re entitled for it, go for it! 
- Reading from his paperwork, “your combined rating is 100%” but it doesn’t tell you what it’s broken down to. 

**After reviewing both A and B prototypes:**

After reviewing the two different versions of this screen, which do you prefer and why?  

Any preference between gray boxes at bottom or going to a separate page? 
- No. Focused on the content. 
- If you want to argue with them, go ahead, you’re wasting your time. Go ahead and apply if you think you’re going to get it. 

CS: How would you explain a max rating to a friend? 
- (I missed this).  
- Would one be more likely to influence you? 
- Oh no, you never give up.  

Shannon Ford: what do you feel about the VA trying to tell people that you’re not going to get more?  
- I don’t have a reaction to it. go for it. 

KL: Difference between info in gray boxes versus going to a separate page?
- No 

KL: Please read the XS stuff.
- He reads first two graphs. “I didn’t know about this extra-schedular rating.” It’s like a secret the VA doesn’t want you to know about. there’s so many different ways to try things.

**Dissuaded vs Not Dissuaded (two themes)**

Between these two prototypes, which do you think would be more likely to influence your decision about whether or not to submit a claim for increase on Tinnitus or other conditions? 

In general, I’d love to hear what you think about your overall experience - being scheduled for this research session, participating in the research session. Could we have done anything differently/better? 
- It’s very thorough. 
- I’ve had to fight tooth and nail. But without my VA money, I’d be living in poverty. Now I live quite comfortably. It’s great. 
- When we friends compare notes, we ask: what are you getting? If you’re higher, you don’t tell them. Don’t complain, keep your mouth shut. If you’re lower, you go to the VA and ask for more. 
- That 100% made life livable for me.
- 
