# Notetaker Notes

## Moderator logistics 

I have started recording. I'd like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record my screen and the audio as we talk today? I think I did that already. No problem recording or videoing me.  

## Warm-up Questions  - 5 minutes 

Before we review the website, let’s start with a few background questions. 

Talk to me about your past experience using the VA.gov website?  
- I believe I used it to submit me claiming 2018 so its been awhile and I have looked at it um I have a new claim. I submitted it through a VSO. That is my experience with va.gov and links that are on the website.  

Could you tell me about the types of benefits you are receiving from the VA at this time?  
- I am getting disability compensation.  

If they are getting disability compensation from the VA right now, ask: 

About how many conditions are you receiving benefits for? 
- I believe maybe 6. Does that include ones that are 0 percent. I have over 10 that are just 0 percent. I totally don’t understand the 0 percent it should at least be 1 percent.  
- Back knees hip, those are some of the big ones.  
 
 

Great! Now let’s get into evaluating some prototypes. 

We’re going to show you two prototypes that we’re working on. 

These prototypes are not the real website, and they may not function exactly the way you expect.  

Some areas of the prototype will allow you to access other pages and some will not.  

And, since it's a demo, none of your actions will affect your actual VA information or benefits. 

We’re going to go through a few different scenarios. For both scenarios, I’d like you to imagine that you’re currently receiving disability benefits from the VA for several service-connected health conditions, and some of those conditions have gotten worse. You’ve come to the VA website today to ask for more compensation for those conditions. 

Now, I’d like to send you a link to the prototype.  

(for non-AT users) I will put that link in the Zoom chat box now.

## Scenario Yellow: Review 526 with accordions - 20 minutes 

If this is the 1st task:  

Your Tinnitus and Migraines have gotten worse, so you’re coming to the website to try and get more compensation. We will start you on step 2 of the application to file for disability compensation and from there, I’d like you to walk us through what you would do in this prototype. We’re skipping some of the earlier steps in the process to save time. Please think aloud as much as you can while you are walking us through this process. And we’re not in a hurry, so take as much time as you would if you were actually doing this for yourself.  

- This could have been helpful a month ago. I went through a vso but I frankly could have done it better myself.  
- (reading page) I have gotten worse, continue. (reading page) my migraines and tinnitus have gotten worse. Sleep apnea probably got worse too.  

Overview/impression: 
- these look like things I was rated initially. I don’t know how asthma can be at 0 percent but a lot of claims are from my understanding. These are my conditions. My migraines and tinnitus have gotten worse. I don’t think I would get more for migraines.

Why wouldn’t you get more:
- 50 percent is fairly high and I know its harder to get more than 50 percent 

Tinnitus, could you get more:
- no because it says I am at the maximum standard but looking at it I could get more for migraines. This is va telling me not to put in for it. 

Thoughts: 
- 10 percent is low for ringing in ears and not being able to sleep and causes migraines and other conditions.  

Maximum standard rating: 
- I can get any more. Then I see helpful things below. It will tell me why I can get more of can I get more. I would click on those boxes and see VA official stance. Then should me how to apply. That is helpful information.  

Higher rating: 
- sounds like if I want a higher rating for tinnitus I would need to submit more.  

Chance: 
- I would depend on the evidence I submit.  

If this was you what would you select: 
- I would select asthma because I don’t understand the 0 percent rating. Migraines and tinnitus if I feel like I should get more.  

Gray box information influence if you should file: 
- yes, the current box says at the maximum would be discouraging but the gray boxes below tell me I can get higher if I submit more evidence. I would move that up instead of hiding it in the questions.  


If this is the 2nd task:  
In this scenario your Tinnitus and Migraines have gotten worse. You’re coming to the website to try and get more compensation. 

**Screen 1 (Start)**

Do you have any questions before you start?	
- Select the box, click continue. Asthma, migraines. These are the only things that are rating. They don’t have the boxes down there. Once you click again you have more information. Between the two I like the first better because it tells you can submit for more than the max. I would place it in the tinnitus box that you need to submit more evidence to get higher than the maximum amount.  

Maximum disability rating impression: 
- That is explanatory. (Reading page) It is saying that somethings you can only get a certain rating. He discouraged me from applying for 1 condition because I was at the max 

Feeling: 
- I thought it was bullshit. Every rating should be able to go up to 100 percent 

Did you ask for an increase: 
- based off of what he said I did not submit for an increase. Based off of what comes back I might appeal it and file for it. I am trying to play the role with the Vso, he was condescending and immature. I will not be going back to them. I will do it myself or hiring a lawyer. A lawyer will only win because they take a percentage.  

VSO: 
- It is a VA VSO and it is through the city. I was told the VFW has better vsos and they look out for the veterans. I might find a VFW or American legion to help met through the process. even when I was reevaluated, I am trying to get sleep apnea and I don’t not getting anything for it but the va placed me on the machine. The VSO said I wont get any disability off of it but I find it interesting. VSO seemed like he was on the VA’s side. He didn’t seem like he was trying to help me through the process.  

Would this influence your decision: 
- basically after reading this I would be discouraged but I would still apply for migraines. Here it tells me I am at the max and wont get more. The migraines didn’t say that. I guess I can see what the max is for each thing I am putting in for. Maybe they have a 100 instead of 50. 

If you tell a friend how would you explain it: 
- it means you cant get any more. It says usually can’t get more. So basically the last sentence says you can get more but than if you provide evidence you can. Tinnitus is actually maxed at 10. Not even if I have consistency ringing in my ear or would it than get transferred to a different disability. I know some disabilities are connected. Sleep apnea is connected to a lot down the road that will have a deterioration on the lifespan. I get 0 or 10 percent on tinnitus.  

How to continue: 
- close this out and click on migraines. I wouldn’t click on tinnitus since it says I am at the max. I would still put in for asthma because I don’t understand the 0 percent rating. Call me crazy. Why not 5 percent.  

Go ahead and navigate to the link that is labeled Yellow. 

**Screen 2 (Select new or existing condition)**

**Screen 3 (View my Rated Disabilities Screen)**

Let’s pause on this screen. Feel free to explore it, but please do not click on anything just yet while I ask you a few questions. 

**After reviewing both A & B prototypes:**

After reviewing the two different versions of this screen, which do you prefer and why?  
- I like the first one better. It highlights the things. The first breaks it down and you can see it upfront. It highlights those three things that the one link already highlights. It gives you a summary of the one link.  

Presence of gray boxes or difference screen: 
- I liked them on the first one.  

Was one more likely to encourage you to file for tinnitus: 
- the second one I am less likely to file for tinnitus. 

Why: 
- well the first one it highlights that you can actually get more than the max rating in the third box. I might not click on the link for what does it mean to me at the maximum disability rating. I wouldn’t click on it if the boxes weren’t there.  Do you want the veteran to still apply even if there’s no chance in getting it. Everything I was getting 0 for I asked for an increase because I don’t understand a 0 percent. You should have a 10 percent . there should be no 0 percent there should be no qualified. It is service connected and you can go back and apply later. My knees are getting worse so I asked for an increase. I guess if they weren’t in my initial on as 0 it would be harder to increase it.  

Small difference under condition it says maximum rating and the other was maximum.  standard rating, does that make a difference: 
- no not really I didn’t even catch that.

## Thank-You and Closing - 5 minutes 

Well we really appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us today.  

In general, I’d love to hear what you think about your overall experience - being scheduled for this research session, participating in the research session. Could we have done anything differently/better? 
- You could pay us more but I think 50 dollars for my time is really good even for an hour of my time.  

Other feedback: 
- No but this is helpful for me so I will go back into your VA.gov. The VSO told me I could go lower instead of higher so we didn’t even record that. New claim was for my sleep apnea and had a sleep study within that year and the va put me on the machine. Then the VSO told me not to put it in because the study said I was overweight and it would get turned down if you are overweight. I was not overweight on active duty. Another thing I don’t understand is if you are at 80 percent its not 80 percent of 4000. 90 percent isn’t 10 percent less than the 4000. It’s like 1500 less. Its not linear off of the disability. If the va changed their payout scale to be off of the 100 percent rating.  
