_This agenda will now be managed from the [PW/CMS weekly sync doc](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/blob/master/platform/cms/product-team-support/product-team-weekly-syncs/public-websites-cms-weekly-sync.md)._

# Agenda/Notes from meetings


<details>
 <summary> **Parking Lot Topics** </summary>
 -  LC go-to-market strategy: how will users find the Learning Center?
</details>

## Wednesday December 9

### Agenda

1. Backlog
1. anything else

### Action items

## Wednesday December 2

### Agenda

1. Any collaboration to assist FE team
1. Video Description / Duration - required fields
1. Backlog
1. anything else

### Action items

1. consensus on video desc/duration required fields - let's do it

## Wednesday November 25

### Agenda
1. Video authoring workflow
1. Backlog
   1. [MVP 1.1 epic](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-cms/issues/2915)
   1. [MVP 1.2 epic](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-cms/issues/3585) - _looking ahead_
1. anything else

### Action items
1. Adding Videos to Media list- Videos pages / CLP: Release note (as we release new fields) + CMS user guide (Q1 2021). 
1. Video URL - Unique throghout the Media library, so that authors are not duplicating content [New Story]
1. 

## Tuesday November 17

### Agenda

1. Meeting schedule/timing
1. Priotity of being able to use "Audience non-beneficiaries" tags in content forms [#3494](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-cms/issues/3494)
1. Backlog

### Action items

1. reschedule Public Websites / CMS check-in for a different time [Clarence]

## Tuesday November 10

### Agenda

1. Checklist template https://app.zenhub.com/workspaces/vft-59c95ae5fda7577a9b3184f8/issues/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/15915
1. Image article template fields
1. Step by step component
1. Transition for VA Forms collaboration
1. Review [backlog](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-cms/issues/1975)

### Action items

1. `CMS` Checklist: remove top level Section Heading and Section intro fields from Checklist paragraph (sprint 20)
1. `CMS` Images: Stop prepopulating image titles when new images are uploaded (Icebox)
1. `CMS` Step by Step: add heading above rich text (Icebox)


## Tuesday November 3

### Agenda

1. Any launch support requests
1. Review [backlog](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-cms/issues/1975)

### Action items

1. 

## Tuesday October 27

### Agenda

1. Review launch support protocol and define severity levels for pre-launch issues [3055](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-cms/issues/3055)
1. Review [backlog](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-cms/issues/1975)

Oct 28th morning - QA kickoff.

### Action items

1. Jen to check-in w/ content team and let the CMS team know the exact time when to rebuild demo environment in prep for QA
1. Oksana to update homepage w/ tepm category URLs today

## Tuesday October 23 - 12pmET


### Agenda

1. Review LC AX issues identified by Jen L.
   1. 1/ ghost alert rendered on front-end
   2. 2/ + 2A/ FAQ template Q&A group section header should be optional + choice to display a question inside an accordion or not
   3. 3/ N/A option in Tags Audience

#### Notes:

1/ ghost alerts are an FE issue. FE templates should not render gray box wrapper when the alert value is set to na

2/ + 2A / the CMS team understands the request and since this is a simple one field addition, we can commit to delivering it by EOD Tue 27th. Noting that neither template spec, not template mockups provided to us specified requested field changes [#3283](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-cms/issues/3283).

3/ Tag component N/A option - reviewed via screenshare. Jen, Kevin and I were not able to reproduce. This is likely related to outdated JS file cached in browser.

### Action items

1.

## Tuesday October 20

### Agenda

1. Review [backlog](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-cms/issues/1975)
1. URL generation
1. Taxonomy term URLs
1. Rebuilding environment without data wiping, but also pulling in new FE
1. Release date MVP1.0 - Oct 29. Validation in demo environment on the 23rd.

### Action items

1. Follow up on FE rebuild in a demo environment

## Tuesday October 13

### Agenda

1. Review [backlog](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-cms/issues/1975)
1. LC content forms access - new "Content Creator - Resources and support" role is in the backlog
   1. [#3132 "Content Creator - Resources and support" role + permissions](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-cms/issues/3132)
   1. [#3133 New VA Forms form available to Content Admins only](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-cms/issues/3133)
1. URL alias + breadcrumb patterns decision check-in [#2818](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-cms/issues/2818)
1. anything else

### Action items

1. Jen will update #2677 about videos in MVP 1.1 
2. Oksana will confirm if LC content team (Randi) has all fields needed to enter all test content. 
3. Decision forthcoming from Mikki and Jen on breadcrumbs/URLs.
4. Beth will look at casing of tags and provide final recommendation.


## Tuesday October 7

### Agenda

1. Review backlog
1. standalone Q&A page template logic
1. final URLs for QA team

### Action items

1. Resource and support content creator role OR short-term new content access conversation (CMS team to brainstorm).

## Tuesday September 29

### Agenda

1. Reschedule Oct 6 check-in for Oct 5, 7 or other
1. Review backlog for Sprint 16
1. Articles List implementation
1. Meta tag title / description clarification
   1. Remove desc meta tag completely
   1. Meta title - 70 chars title + ` | Veterans Affairs` - no case conversion
1. ToC component on LC content types [3013](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-cms/issues/3013)
   1. enable component on all LC CTs, but Q&A
1. MVP set of tags for Topics taxonomy [2892](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-cms/issues/2892)
1. Default value in VA benefit Hub fields on existing content [3007](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-cms/issues/3007)
1. Process of releasing new LC categories
1. Table AX issues identified by Jen Strickland [2877](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-cms/issues/2877)
1. anything else

### Action items

1. Jen to confirm whether native CMS tag listing preview is sufficient for the MVP 1.1
  1. confirmed [here](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/issues/13883#issuecomment-701535183)

## Tuesday September 22

### Agenda

1. CTA button classes
1. Articles by tag: truncated body options
1. LC Search vs. LC Article Lists
1. Transformers for LC content model
1. Review backlog for Sprint 15
1. anything else

### Action items

1. CTA button classes. 
   1. authors will keep using https://www.va.gov/?next=%2Fprofile%2F as the CTA URL link
   1. another example https://www.va.gov/coronavirus-veteran-frequently-asked-questions/#what-should-i-do-if-i-need-to
1. Meta description for LC content types - remove Meta description fields.
1. By Sep 30, Nick/Kelson to confirm GraphQL return the data required to generate static pages for taxonomy terms a.k.a "articles tagged by".

## Tuesday September 15

### Agenda

1. Review backlog for Sprint 15
1. React widget capability for Single Q&A and in other LC templates.
1. Custom link teasers - automation brainstorm
1. Tagged content option (New)
1. other

### Action items

1. Identify an MVP set of "Topic" terms by Fri, Sep 25


## Tuesday September 8

### Agenda

1. Review backlog for Sprint 14/15
1. Table editorial experience

### Action items

## Tuesday September 1 (4pm ET)

1. Devshop env for FE development
   1. [Demo environment docs](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/blob/master/platform/cms/product-team-support/demo-environments.md)
   1. POCs for DevShop env rebuild: Randi
1. Review backlog for Sprint 14
1. `Articles tagged` feature
1. ~URL alias model for LC content [#2818](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-cms/issues/2818)~ scheduled separately

### Action items

1. ~Schedule a separate call re: URL aliases with Jen Lee, Mikki Northuis, Meg Peters~ - scheduled for Sep 9th 10am ET
1. Sep 2 EOD - kick off dev shop env for FE engineering
1. Schedule 30mins w/ Randi to walk through DevShop rebuild process
1. Schedule Search/Content Listing by tag brainstorm session

## Tuesday September 1 (2:30-3:30pmET)

Attendees: Jen Lee, Ryan Thurlwell, Kevin Walsh, Oksana Cyrwus

1. FE Tags and authoring experience rules - [MURAL](https://app.mural.co/t/vagov6717/m/vagov6717/1597845145225/5e258a50346775afe0125cd5126bce952fde5d94). 
   1. Finalize MVP topic and audience tag sets.
   1. Finalize authoring rules for FE tags.
1. Email component design (Ryan T. - dependency on Facilities)

### Action items

1. 

## Wednesday August 26

### Agenda

1. MVP taxonomy
   1. FE Tags and AX rules are still in progress - [MURAL](https://app.mural.co/t/vagov6717/m/vagov6717/1597845145225/5e258a50346775afe0125cd5126bce952fde5d94).
1. Related Information component
   1. Spec was finalized in [MURAL](https://app.mural.co/t/vagov6717/m/vagov6717/1597845145225/5e258a50346775afe0125cd5126bce952fde5d94) and will be transfered into CMS backlog for Sprint 14.
1. Need more help? component
   1. Spec was finalized in [MURAL](https://app.mural.co/t/vagov6717/m/vagov6717/1597845145225/5e258a50346775afe0125cd5126bce952fde5d94) and will be transfered into CMS backlog for Sprint 14.
1. Governance
   1. Didn't cover - lower priority.

### Action items

1. Oksana will schedule a follow-up to discuss FE tags logic.

## Tuesday August 25

### Agenda

1. Review backlog / blockers

### Action items

1. 

## Wednesday August 19

### Agenda

1. Related Information component
1. Need more help? component
1. MVP taxonomy
1. Governance

## Tuesday August 18

### Agenda

1. Review backlog / clarify any items that affect sprint 13
   1. Content reusability accross products - review concept prototype
1. Training plan for PW team and LC stakeholders / SMEs
   1. Training for Randi and PW content authors end of Oct. Formal training for other authors Dec/ Jan
   1. Clarify MVP dates
      1. MVP 1.0 - end of October (CMS) / beginning of Nov (PW) | PW team owns content
      1. MVP 1.1 - December | IRIS content | onboarding ~ January 2021

### Action items

1. 

## Friday August 14

### Agenda

1. MVP Taxonomy [#2542](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-cms/issues/2542)
   1. discussion on tag design iteration and creative workaround ideas

### Action items

1. 


## Tuesday August 11

### Agenda

1. MVP Taxonomy [#2542](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-cms/issues/2542)
1. Related information component
1. Media lists
1. Training plan for PW team and LC stakeholders / SMEs
1. Content reusability accross products - review concept prototype

### Action items

1. Implement Topics taxonomy with two starter tags: "VA Account and Profile" , "General" (pending discussion on Friday 8/14)
1. Implement Audience taxonomy with "Beneficiary" portion of the taxonomy.
1. Implement a separate field that defines the relation of LC page to a Benefit Hub.

## Tuesday August 4

### Agenda

1. Review LC backlog
2. Blockers
5. CRM news

### Action items

1. Jen/Randi create Draft content on prod for the following content types: Q&A, FAQ - Multiple Q&As, Step-by-step ([2561](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-cms/issues/2561))
2. The CMS team support DevShop env for FE development ([2561](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-cms/issues/2561))
3. The CMS team adds Audience taxonomy to Sprint goals (less AX for rigidity reqs)


## Tuesday July 28

### Agenda

0. Q: What are we able to/not able to do until a page is live in Drupal Prod:
 * Analytics implementation?
 * Accessibility checks?
 * Anything else?
1. Review LC backlog 
2. Demo 
3. Governance discovery
4. Content reusability across products (eg Q&As)
5. Agenda for tomorrow's framework meeting


### Action items

1.
2. 


## Tuesday July 21

### Agenda

0. Confirm / tweak agenda

1. Review [CMS backlog for Learning Center](https://app.zenhub.com/workspaces/vagov-cms-team-5c0e7b864b5806bc2bfc2087/board?epics=154174777_1975&filterLogic=any&repos=154174777)
 * [Sprint 11](https://app.zenhub.com/workspaces/vagov-cms-team-5c0e7b864b5806bc2bfc2087/board?milestones=CMS%20Sprint%2011%232020-07-31&epics=154174777_1975&repos=154174777) (July 20-31)
 * Sprint 12 (August 3-14)
 * Sprint 13 (August )

2. Discuss cross-disciplinary dependencies and touchpoints (particularly Frontend and CMS, but also occasionally Design/Content)

3. 

### Action items

1.
2. 

----

## Tuesday July 14

### Agenda

1. Triage next steps

2. Campaign Landing Page (CMS Sprint 10 goal)
  * Proof of concept and roadmap
  * Further discovery needed around some details--get it scheduled with Ryan and Jen
  * Schedule a roadmap review with John

3. Learning Center 
  * Establish Sprint 11 goals for CMS team
  * Finish discovery

4. The future of this call & collaboration
  * Who: Add Mickin to call
  * Timing
  * Moving away from Google Docs


### Action items
CMS team to build LC backlog for CMS  sprint 11 (July - July 31) and let Public Websites team know on Friday July 17
 * Templates, with some additional discovery 
   * About
   * Multiple FAQs
   * Process list with images
 * Discovery on taxonomy (sprint 11)

