# Conversation Guide for Back-End Tools Team, External Services Integration, June 2020: P2

## Intro - 5 minutes

Thanks for joining us today! My name is Emily and I also have some colleagues on the line observing and taking notes. Today we're going to talk about integrating an app to an external service.

Before we start, a few things I want to mention:

- **This entire session should take about half an hour** I want to be sure not to keep you much longer, so I may occasionally prompt you with the next question or topic.
- **In this session, we want to hear your honest opinions.** We are not testing your ability. We just want to improve these tools to better meet developers’ needs. I will not be offended by any opinions you express, and I welcome your feedback.
- **If for any reason and at any time you want to stop the session, please let me know.** 
- **Are you comfortable if I record the screen and audio as we talk today?** We use the recordings to confirm that we have captured your opinions accurately. The recordings are destroyed after we complete analysis, and none of your comments will be attributed to you directly. 
    - If yes: **Once I start recording, I am going to confirm that you are ok with me recording this session once more.** 
*Start recording.*
- **I have started recording. I'd like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record the screen the audio as we talk today?**

## Introduction

- To start, let’s talk a bit about what application(s) you're working on. Can you tell me about it/them?
  - P2: I'm on the eBenefits team. Something that might be a little bit different than most teams is that we have 2 backend engineers including myself. I see most have one. We are working on a pretty complex project right now where we're trying to automate or digitize the 686 form.
  
- What do they enable Veterans to do?
  - It enables Veterans to add information about their dependents to their benefits and report different things like deaths, divorces. 
  - It gets pretty crazy as you get to the form, the things you have to account for. The Veteran's spousal history, and also the spouse's spousal history. You have to report things like that.
  - You can add children to your benefits.
  - You can report divorce, deaths, you can report all kinds of stuff.
  - We are also doing kind of a side form, it's 674. It allows you to add a child who is over 18 who is attending school to your benefits.
  - You have to account for things like financial information, property they own, all kinds of things. It's crazy.
- Does the 674 also account for if the child has any disabilities, to account for those too?
  - The form itself proper, the paper one does account for that.
  - It'll be like, a child over 18 who isn't independent.
  - But we don't, the external service we integrate with doesn't seem to support that.
  - What will happen is we generate this information, we make like 17 calls and what will happen is something goes wrong and you can change a status and then a human reviews it.
- Which external services do they integrate with?
  - This is all going to BGS.
- What does that stand for?
  - Benefits Gateway... Service?
  - It's funny, I know these granular details but then I don't know BGS [laughter]
  - Benefit Gateway Services.
- Have you worked with that service before?
  - No, this is the first project, the first task for me.

## External services integration

- Describe the process of integrating BGS to an external service. What has that been like from your perspective being on the newer side, ramping up and learning how to work with it?
  - It's been... I'm working on sorting that out in my head.
  - I kinda do little retros for myself every day. Thinking about what went well today, what didn't.
  - I don't know what I'm supposed to know, what I'm not supposed to know.
  - Especially being a developer, you can fall into a bad habit of not speaking up because you're afraid to tip your hand on what you don't know.
  - It's been a little tough.
  - My partner in crime, Kathleen, has the EVSS code that drives the 686 form process and eBenefits. I don't have access to that. She was given a GFE with that code base on it. 
  - It's been pretty painful for me.
  - I've been cobbling together business logic by making SOAP calls and seeing what data exists already in the system and hoping, like, "Hey, it's there... maybe they want this for a value, or that for a value."
  - We had a really great meeting last week with BGS. I don't know if they have a different name... That shed a lot of light on what we need to do.
  - It was validating, too.
  - After the meeting we were all talking to each other and saying how well that went, and our PM was saying, "Well what do you think? Should we have had that meeting earlier or later?"
  - And I said, "Well I'm not really sure because I didn't have any domain knowledge at the time about anything VA-related. So maybe that would've gone over my head." 
  - But that meeting was really helpful.
- Do you get the sense that it was complex or tough to connect with that team? Other teams sometimes have to jump through a lot of hoops to get in touch with the right people behind external services. Do you know if that's the case with the BGS folks?
  - I didn't really know who to connect with.
  - I guess it was difficult, becuase I didn't know what I didn't know, ya know?
  - Our PO facilitated the meeting and got us together.
  - So yeah I guess it was very difficult, because I didn't...
  - That's kind of been my problem, or my struggle with this position so far is just, not knowing what I don't know.
  - There is this error of like - since we are contractors, it seems like we have to be kind of careful about what we say and don't say, how we talk to people. So you just kind of don't really say anything, ya know.
- What is the documentation situation with BGS?
  - Cool question.
  - So we got a 70-page Word document, which is fine. It's totally cool. 
  - Too much information is better than none, or not enough.
  - It had the list of calls and then the WSDL file URL. And so we would copy the WSDL file URL and paste it in the SOAP UI which is like, post-MAMP, but for SOAP. I had never used SOAP UI before this job, so it's new to me. 
  - And we used that to generate a list of all available calls.
  - From there we just kind of figured it out. We send crap over to them and see what they return back.
  - For example, there was no -- and in the meeting with them, I did ask for this -- and I'll try to make this as non-specific to this use case as possible, but there is a call called "create relationship."
  - It's where you pass in the dependent's ID and the Veteran's ID. 
  - You give it information, and based on that and the IDs you are representing a certain relationship.
  - Could be a spouse, could be a stepchild, could be whatever.
  - What would be really helpful, this seems to be a really important call, and I asked them during the call, "I don't know how to represent properly to your system a divorce. Or a stepchild."
  - Especially doing backend work in Ruby, it's pretty dogmatic when it comes to testing.
  - That's one thing we would test, that it creates a stepchild.
  - Based on what we send it, we would expect a return back, but I don't know exactly for sure. 
  - We did our best to figure it out, and we'll see in testing, you know, in staging or whatever if it works.
  - There's a lot of unknowns there. I'm not certain.
- Was the team able to answer the question in the meeting?
    - I asked them if there was documentation and they said they would work on it.
    - There was no documentation for that.
    - There were so many use cases that would it be impossible to handle in the meeting of any kind, any length. There are just so many derivations.
- Is the 70-page Word doc the only documentation resource that they have that you know of?
    - That I know of.
    - I was given a document by our PO, he asked me if I'd seen it before. I hadn't. When I looked at it, it looked like it was the same information but a different document for a specific call.
    - Also the way I got the documentation, it was handed to me by our other developer.
    - I never got any documentation from the BGS team directly, which I didn't expect.
- How hopeful are you about the new documentation they said they would create?
    - I'm not holding my breath, but they did follow up and ask us what call we are making throughout the whole 686 submission process.
    - I gave them a list.
    - So it sounds like they are going to come up with some 686 specific documentation.
    - It was a little disappointing... or concerning. 
    - I feel like it was the tail wagging the dog, kind of.
    - It's your system, you want a 686 submitted to you, so why am I telling you what calls I'm making to your system.
    - I've never been in that position before, but it's fine. Whatever they need.
 - Out of curiosity, how did they follow up?
    - It came initially through our PO.
    - I sent the list of all the calls we make through my VA.gov email to our PO and then he forwarded it and cc-ed me on the email to their team members.
    - They don't use Slack that I know of.
- What steps do you take now when you have questions or run into dead ends with what you're trying to build?
    - I just basically just do the death march of just throwing stuff at the call.
    - I had an email drafted up I was going to send to the BGS team about a call I'm making. It's kind of the last hurdle, hopefully that I know of, to really submit without hardcoding any information to BGS.
    - Then I kinda noticed some anomalies. It's working in SOAP UI but not in my code, so I'm putting the two pieces, the two payloads together and saying, "What's different here?"
    - So, I'm going to wrap that up and if I can't figure it out, I'll send an email to everyone and see what happens.
- Does it complicate your work to not have a GFE?
    - That's a great question, and I've thought about that.
    - So evidently the GFE that has the source code is a super gnarly Java app.
    - So to be honest with you, I don't know how helpful it would be.
    - Files are so nested, and it's just so.. abstracted or I don't know, so I don't know for sure.
- 
- Was this the first time you've worked with that external service?
- How long did it take?
- What parts went well? Why?
- What was easy? Why?
- What parts were difficult? Why?
- What kind of support did you need?
  - Did you connect with anyone at the external service that was helpful (or not)?
  - What documentation was useful? What wasn't?
  - What other resources did you come across that was useful? What wasn't?
- What kinds of questions came up?
  - Did you get them answered?
  - Who answered them?
  - What questions remain unanswered?
- Is there anything you will do differently next time?
- You're in your first few months, so answer this in whatever way makes sense to you, but what advice would you give other developers doing this integration for the first time?
    - I don't know, I mean for a long time, BGS was a thing and not a group of people.
    - I don't know how I would... I haven't really worked with them per se.
    - But working with their products, I guess... what would I tell myself?
    - I don't know. I'm not sure.
    - There isn't much to go on.
    - To be fair to BGS, they didn't know up until a week or two a go that I even existed so it's not like they've been stonewalling me or anything.
- Are there any other resources or documentation that you've found useful?
    - No, I can't think of anything.
    - The only thing I've done, we would get back these cryptic Java errors and I would just google those and try to figure out what the problem was.
    - We were sending data and everything was working great, and we started getting this error about like, "Can't task this object, or this string to a date." And I looked that up. 
    - When I talked to them in the meeting about it, I guess they had upgraded. Or updated the version of Java they were using and it made breaking changes, so we had to change the format of how we send dates over.
    - So basically just, good ol' Google is what I've been doing.
- Is BGS the only external service you're working with currently?
    - Short answer, yes.
    - There are times when we use pieces of data in the user object that seems like it comes from other services, but no direct writing to or getting from any other services.
- What have you learned in your time working with this service that has made the process easier?
- Are there notes or things that you wrote down that were helpful for you as you completed the integration?

## Post-Task Interview

That covers all of the things we wanted to talk about with you today! 

- Are there any other thoughts you’d like to share about integrating with external services?
    - Just for your information, we've had to update a gem too, or we're in the process.
    - It's the Lighthouse BGS gem. 
    - We've been working with a team member at Lighthouse who has been really nice and approachable.
- I'll open it to others on the call, does anyone else have any questions or areas you want to dig deeper?
- KF: I'd like to go deeper on the gem upgrade, but are there any parts of working with Lighthouse that have been significantly painful or do you think the model makes sense, having a gem represent this integration? Any other thoughts I'd be interested to hear.
    - Yeah so the gem has been pretty nice to work with.
    - It's been nice to not have to format the data for a SOAP call.
    - The PR process seems to be pretty straightforward and simple.
    - We submitted a PR, I figured we would get some feedback on it, and rather than hem and haw over it, I kind of just shipped it and sent it over so no surprised there. 
    - We gotta make some changes and we should be good to go.
    - We've been working with [developer] who has been great, and has helped me in the past too with configuring proxies via AWS and all that fun stuff. Super available and helpful.
- AC: The giant word document, even though it was missing a lot of the info, did you get the sense that from what was in it that it was maintained or owned by someone?
    - The Word doc was pretty good. The way it was helpful, it showed us what was available.
    - Oh shoot! I'm so sorry, I forgot about this document too which was so helpful. I haven't looked at it in awhile so it's been out of sight out of mind. We had this workflow document that was really helpful.
    - It would how a box, then the call, then if it worked, go to the next box.
    - So we took that, and then used it to find the calls in the Word document, then used the WSDL calls to get the SOAP configured correctly, then we were able to make that happen.
    - So sorry! It was so important.
    - It was handed to me second-hand by the other developer on the team.
- AC: What was that done in, do you know?
    - No, I'm not sure. It's a PDF.
- AC: So it's probably not a living document that's getting updated if it changes.
    - Oh, yeah to go back - does it seem like it was maintained?
    - The Word doc looks like it is maintained.
    - I didn't go back and look at the dates, but they had a ledger of changes and dates. So that was nice but I don't know if they are still doing that.
    - There was nothing like that on the PDF, it was just a graphic.
- AC: With BGS, are there instances when it's down or something on their end, or something on their end blocks your work? How do you get around that?
    - I haven't hit that situation.
    - I don't know how I'd get around that.
    - Hopefully I'd have VCR cassettes or something that recorded some stuff and I would just use tests to get by.
- KF: Have there been any particular platform documentation sources or processes that have been significant in this effort as it relates to the BGS integration?
    - I don't recall any platform documentation specifically.
    - Well, I did reference... 
    - I had to submit a separate pull request to check to see if a Veteran had a valid VA file number.
    - That can at times be SSN, so I was provided some PII documentation.
    - My perspective when I was reading the document was in terms of persistence.
    - Our PO wanted to have a record of someone that has no file number in the system when they should. I was trying to figure out a palatable or secure way to make a record of that either in Sentry or what have you.
- Is there anyone else you think we should talk to about this?
- Before we wrap up, do you have any questions for me? 
- Please send any links that you mentioned to Alex Pappas and myself.

## Thank-You and Closing

Well we really appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us today. Your feedback is so helpful to us as we continue to work on the platform and make sure VFS teams are fully supported.

Great, well thank you so much again, and enjoy the rest of your day!


