products/health-care/application/va-application/Short Form/Adding Post-9_11 Combat Veterans to Short Form/Post-9_11 Combat Veterans - Initiative Brief.md, before:

# Initiative - Short Form flow for Post-9/11 Combat Veterans

## Outcome Summary
By adding Post-9/11 Combat Veterans to the Short Form flow, they will get through the application process faster, without having to provide financial information that is not required to qualify for up to 10 years of free VA health care to which they are entitled.

**Related/Associated product(s)**
- Product | [10-10EZ Product Outline](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/blob/master/products/health-care/application/va-application/10-10EZ%20Health%20Care%20Application%20-%20Product%20Outline.md)

## Problem

* What is the problem and who is affected? And, what evidence do we have of the problem?
There is a subset of Veterans who are eligible for VA health care without providing financial information.  This group can be directed through the existing Short Form flow and complete the application process quicker and easier with less cognitive load.
* Why do you think the problem is occurring? Other reasons why this might be occurring?
There are Veterans who are experiencing an undue hardship/burden of providing financial information when they are eligible for benefits that do not require that information.  There are several Veterans who stated they would not provide their financial information if asked, and would prefer not to.
* How does this initiative help further OCTO-DE's mission and goals?
By providing quick and easy access to VA health benefits, and ensuring that eligible Veterans are getting the benefits to which they are entitled, we are aligning with the mission and goals


## Desired User Outcomes
- Post-9/11 Combat Veterans will apply for VA health care online without needing their financial information
- Eligible Veterans will be able to complete and submit their application within one session, without having to exit and return to the application later
- Eligible Veterans will feel more confident that they qualify for VA health care and can obtain this care easily


## Undesired User Outcomes
Veterans will be unsure of their eligibility
Veterans will be confused about what information they need to provide

## Desired Business Outcomes
More eligible Veterans will apply for VA health care online
More eligible Veterans will have access to their entitled care
Staff will be able to process these applications faster and easier

## Undesired Business Outcomes
Applications abandoned because Veterans were unsure and not confident in their eligibility

---
## Measuring Success

### Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) - TBD

### Objective: More health care applications submitted.

Data source - [10-10EZ Domo Dashboard](https://va-gov.domo.com/page/447193050)


**Key Result 1:** Target increase from 30% to XX% of total application submissions through Short Form flow

| KPI / Metric | Baseline | Post-launch 1 month| Post-launch 3 months|
| ------------ | ------------- | ------------------ | ------------------- |
| Total applications submitted | xxx | xxx  | xxx  |
| Short Form applications submitted | xxx | xxx  | xxx  |
| Pct. Short Form Applications | xxx | xxx  | xxx  |

**Key Result 2:** Increase number of application submissions
*Using last 6 months (xxx) to calculate Baselines*
| KPI / Metric | Baseline: xxx | Post-launch 1 month| Post-launch 3 months|
| ------------ | ------------- | ------------------ | ------------------- |
| Avg. Application starts per Month | xxx | xxx  | xxx  |
| Avg. Submissions per Month | xxx | xxx  | xxx  |
| Pct. Applications Completed | xxx | xxx  | xxx  |

**Key Result 3:** Reduce Sessions / Time taken to complete application 
| KPI / Metric | Baseline: xxx | Post-launch 1 month| Post-launch 3 months|
| ------------ | ------------- | ------------------ | ------------------- |
| Avg. Sessions per Submission | xxx | xxx  | xxx  |
| Avg. Single sessions per Month |xxx | xxx  | xxx  |
| Avg. 2 sessions per Month | xxx | xxx  | xxx  |
| Avg. 3 or more sessions per Month | xxx | xxx  | xxx  |

**Key Result 4:** Reduce abandoned applications

| KPI / Metric | Baseline: xxx | Post-launch 1 month| Post-launch 3 months|
| ------------ | ------------------ | ------------------- |------------------- |
|Applications Abandoned per month |xxx | xxx  | xxx  


---

## Discovery
### Assumptions/Risks
> *Identify risks related to usability, value to users, feasibility/implementation, and viability given organizational constraints<sup>2</sup>. 
> Indicate how you'll validate/test against these risks. Inspired by [SVPG's Four Big Risks](https://www.svpg.com/four-big-risks/).*

- **Value Risks** (will people use it): 
  - The value risk that Veterans may become confused when they transition to the short form, and had already spent time looking for where to input the information (as mentioned on the Introduction) that is no longer necessary.
- **Usability Risks** (can people figure out how to use it):
  - There is a risk that the incorrect answer for specific military service information will be selected, meaning they might not fill out the correct version of the form.
- **[Technical] Feasibility Risks** (can we build it with available tech/data):
  - None, we will use the existing Short Form flow, with new indicators (checkbox, question/answer)
  
- **Organizational Viability Risks/Constraints** (will there be a positive organizational impact):
  - VA stakeholder testing, marketing, compliance requirements 

### What're you building
- In-scope:
     - Implementation of short form for users with a combat military service indicating they have served in a Post-9/11 Operation
- Out of scope:
     - Any clean-up / changes to the existing form.

--- 

## Launch Planning
### Collaboration Cycle
> 💡 *Use for any Collab Cycle tracking, questions.*

- Kickoff ticket - TBD

### Timeline 
> *Describe any major milestones for this initiative including organizational, legislative, etc. constraints.*

* [Link to Release Plan for this Initiative - TBD](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/blob/master/platform/product-management/release-plan-template.md)

#### Initiative Launch Dates
- *Target Launch Date*
  - tbd
- *Actual Launch Date* 
  - tbd

---
   
## Screenshots

### Before
TBD

### After
TBD

---

#### Communications
*Where will you discuss this initiative?*

<details>

- Team Name: 10-10 Health Apps (Health Enrollment)
- GitHub Label(s): 1010-team
- Slack channel: #1010-health-apps
- Product POCs: Heather Justice, Alex Seelig

</details>


#### Stakeholders
*What offices/departments are critical to make this initiative successful?*

<details>
  
- Office/Department: OCTO-DE
- Contact(s): Lauren Alexanderson, Patrick Bateman, Lois Lewis

 
</details>

---

Commit message:

Update Post-9_11 Combat Veterans - Initiative Brief.md

products/health-care/application/va-application/Short Form/Adding Post-9_11 Combat Veterans to Short Form/Post-9_11 Combat Veterans - Initiative Brief.md, after:

# Initiative - Short Form flow for Post-9/11 Combat Veterans

## Outcome Summary
- By adding Post-9/11 Combat Veterans to the Short Form flow, they will get through the application process faster, without having to provide financial information that is not required to qualify for up to 10 years of free VA health care to which they are entitled.

**Related/Associated product(s)**
- Product | [10-10EZ Product Outline](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/blob/master/products/health-care/application/va-application/10-10EZ%20Health%20Care%20Application%20-%20Product%20Outline.md)

## Problem

* What is the problem and who is affected? And, what evidence do we have of the problem?
     - There is a subset of Veterans who are eligible for VA health care without providing financial information.  This group can be directed through the existing Short Form flow and complete the application process quicker and easier with less cognitive load.
* Why do you think the problem is occurring? Other reasons why this might be occurring?
     - There are Veterans who are experiencing an undue hardship/burden of providing financial information when they are eligible for benefits that do not require that information.  There are several Veterans who stated they would not provide their financial information if asked, and would prefer not to.
* How does this initiative help further OCTO-DE's mission and goals?
     - By providing quick and easy access to VA health benefits, and ensuring that eligible Veterans are getting the benefits to which they are entitled, we are aligning with the mission and goals


## Desired User Outcomes
- Post-9/11 Combat Veterans will apply for VA health care online without needing their financial information
- Eligible Veterans will be able to complete and submit their application within one session, without having to exit and return to the application later
- Eligible Veterans will feel more confident that they qualify for VA health care and can obtain this care easily


## Undesired User Outcomes
- Veterans will be unsure of their eligibility
- Veterans will be confused about what information they need to provide

## Desired Business Outcomes
- More eligible Veterans will apply for VA health care online
- More eligible Veterans will have access to their entitled care
- Staff will be able to process these applications faster and easier

## Undesired Business Outcomes
- Applications abandoned because Veterans were unsure and not confident in their eligibility

---
## Measuring Success

### Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) - TBD

### Objective: More health care applications submitted.

- Data source - [10-10EZ Domo Dashboard](https://va-gov.domo.com/page/447193050)


**Key Result 1:** Target increase from 30% to XX% of total application submissions through Short Form flow

| KPI / Metric | Baseline | Post-launch 1 month| Post-launch 3 months|
| ------------ | ------------- | ------------------ | ------------------- |
| Total applications submitted | xxx | xxx  | xxx  |
| Short Form applications submitted | xxx | xxx  | xxx  |
| Pct. Short Form Applications | xxx | xxx  | xxx  |

**Key Result 2:** Increase number of application submissions
*Using last 6 months (xxx) to calculate Baselines*
| KPI / Metric | Baseline: xxx | Post-launch 1 month| Post-launch 3 months|
| ------------ | ------------- | ------------------ | ------------------- |
| Avg. Application starts per Month | xxx | xxx  | xxx  |
| Avg. Submissions per Month | xxx | xxx  | xxx  |
| Pct. Applications Completed | xxx | xxx  | xxx  |

**Key Result 3:** Reduce Sessions / Time taken to complete application 
| KPI / Metric | Baseline: xxx | Post-launch 1 month| Post-launch 3 months|
| ------------ | ------------- | ------------------ | ------------------- |
| Avg. Sessions per Submission | xxx | xxx  | xxx  |
| Avg. Single sessions per Month |xxx | xxx  | xxx  |
| Avg. 2 sessions per Month | xxx | xxx  | xxx  |
| Avg. 3 or more sessions per Month | xxx | xxx  | xxx  |

**Key Result 4:** Reduce abandoned applications

| KPI / Metric | Baseline: xxx | Post-launch 1 month| Post-launch 3 months|
| ------------ | ------------------ | ------------------- |------------------- |
|Applications Abandoned per month |xxx | xxx  | xxx  


---

## Discovery
### Assumptions/Risks
> *Identify risks related to usability, value to users, feasibility/implementation, and viability given organizational constraints<sup>2</sup>. 
> Indicate how you'll validate/test against these risks. Inspired by [SVPG's Four Big Risks](https://www.svpg.com/four-big-risks/).*

- **Value Risks** (will people use it): 
  - The value risk that Veterans may become confused when they transition to the short form, and had already spent time looking for where to input the information (as mentioned on the Introduction) that is no longer necessary.
- **Usability Risks** (can people figure out how to use it):
  - There is a risk that the incorrect answer for specific military service information will be selected, meaning they might not fill out the correct version of the form.
- **[Technical] Feasibility Risks** (can we build it with available tech/data):
  - None, we will use the existing Short Form flow, with new indicators (checkbox, question/answer)
  
- **Organizational Viability Risks/Constraints** (will there be a positive organizational impact):
  - VA stakeholder testing, marketing, compliance requirements 

### What're you building
- In-scope:
     - Implementation of short form for users with a combat military service indicating they have served in a Post-9/11 Operation
- Out of scope:
     - Any clean-up / changes to the existing form.

--- 

## Launch Planning & Artifacts
### Collaboration Cycle

- Kickoff ticket - TBD
- Design files
- Engineering docs
- QA docs

### Timeline

* [Link to Release Plan for this Initiative - TBD](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/blob/master/platform/product-management/release-plan-template.md)

#### Initiative Launch Dates
- *Target Launch Date*
  - tbd
- *Actual Launch Date* 
  - tbd

---
   
## Screenshots

### Before
TBD

### After
TBD

---

#### Communications
*Where will you discuss this initiative?*

<details>

- Team Name: 10-10 Health Apps (Health Enrollment)
- GitHub Label(s): 1010-team
- Slack channel: #1010-health-apps
- Product POCs: Heather Justice, Alex Seelig

</details>


#### Stakeholders
*What offices/departments are critical to make this initiative successful?*

<details>
  
- Office/Department: OCTO-DE
- Contact(s): Lauren Alexanderson, Patrick Bateman, Lois Lewis

 
</details>

---
