Notetaker: Tressa Furner, May 11, 2020

Are you comfortable if I record my screen and audio as I talk today?

Yes.

Before we get started in the activity...Do you remember the last time you visited VA.gov?

Probalby about 2 months ago. I mainly use it to keep track of my health records, because it's easier for me to go throught hte website and do it instead of calling the hospital.

Did you log in that last time.

Yeah.

Can you explain whether or not hat was a typical experience.

It was normal. Logging in was kind of... I don't know.  So when I log in it takes me to like a generic page. Then you need to go through all these different links to get to where you need to go. It would be easeir if everything was lined up on the side of my homepage. 

I'm excited to hear you say that, I don' really undersatnd what you're descr4ibing there. When you say generic page, could you describe that in a little more detail?

So when you log on... it's like... um... it's got column type things. Different links you can click on.. and like... um... my medical records. I have to go through another lkink to get to wehre I can download my medical records. And sometimes it doesn't work. and I think that's a big issue - the website can't be found. I don't know what's going on.

That would be frustrating. Okay. So it sounds like the other times you've gone to the site - can you tell me about thsoe.

Um, yeah. I'll go to the site and I have to find, like when I go to the site I try to schedule appointments. So I ahve to find my VA center and then I can schedule appointments with my pcm. That way. Sometimes it's easy to get to and sometiems I have a hard time. Because the website crashes because there's so many vets on there.

When it's easy for you, what makes it easy?

Um. Like just when I'm on the site sometimes it's easy when I can get to it. And do what I need to do. And it's actually working.  That's one of the MAJOR issues, is there are so many vets that it is so hard to keep that website up. Because a l of the time it's crashing. I tried to log on today, and I couldnt' even log on.

I"m sorry to hear that, that's so frustrating. Just so I can note it. What's the url?

When Igo to VA.gov and try to log in it takes me to (ds.login). So it's telling me the site can't be reached. 

Okay, I will definitely pass that on.  So how often do you sign in when you visit VA.gov?

I try to do it as often as I can. When I need to go, cause I'm one of the few um that can actually go on base and get medical treatment. So if I know I can't get in with my PCM at ft. eustice. I will try to schedule an appt at the va as a back up.

Alright, can you tell me about the beneifts that oyu currently receive?

I receive the compensation - the disability from the va. I also get um the healthcare. And then I was approved for the housing grant.

Okay, cool.  Wlel thank you for sharing all of that with me, I think we can go ahead and get started with our activity. I'm going to share my screen. Can you see it okay?

Okay I figured it out. Yes.

This is a tool called mural... create a rough version of your personalized page. So what are some of the thing stha tyou want to see as soon as you log in?

My health records.

And can you tell me about what oyu mean? Just o I understand?

So, just being able to click on it and it'll take me right into my medical records.

Can you elaborate on why you need to access those?

Sometimes, ft eustice can't always see what the va is inputting. So for me, it's important that I cna download it and if they need to see what the va diagnosed me with, then I can take it to them and they can put it in my records for me. Because I have a lot of things going on. I'm an above the knee amputee and it's important that the va and ft eustice can communicate.

Is that the center you go to?

Yes.

I can definitely see what that is important. So we have health records. Waht else do you want tos ee ont he page. 

I would like to be able to see a list of my medications. 

Okay. ARe there any actions you expect to take form that list?

To have it all organzied, and hav eit all be there.  They have a list of medications, but they aren't always what I'm taking.  And keep that updated. But I think that wouldbe the VA side.

What else?

Um.

You m entioned scheduling appts. 

Yeah, scheduling appointments.

I"m not a vet, so I'm not sure how to use that. 

So you are registered to one VA hospital, for me I"m in the hampton va meidcal center. It is SO hard because there are so many vets around here to call and get an appt. They've chagned it to where you can schedule online - and I've noticed i've gotten pretty decent time by using that. I would love to ahve the schedule appt button on my home screen, so I don't have to dig thorugh thte rest. It would have all my information so I could just click to schedule.

Would you want the rest of tha tinformation on the homepage or just somehting to click to schedul?

Uh. No.

Okay. Now you mentioned that you have disability, healthcare, and you are approved for a housing grant. Anything about those benefits that you want to see on your page when you log in?

Acutally that would be awesome - if they could put that on. So I could know how much I have left so I can plan accordingly.  It owuldbe nice if they laid out the disability. Like what they are. Instead of you having to go through and kind of liek... I think that's why they got ebenefits. That's how you get to va.gov to check your medical records.  

And when you said for disability to lay out what they are, cna you elaborate on that?

So when you go see the va, and you know, you're odn eiwht your appt, it would be nice if they had a list of what they diagnoised you with. Instwead of having to dig through your medical records. Because some people don't have small medical records.

Okay, Alright. Well this is a really good start. So I took some guesses on some things that might be important. So, I'll sho you these now.  I'd like you to take a moment to read these, look at these stickies and speak out loud through your thoughts as you do. If you don't think any of those would be useful, let me know and we can get rid of these.

I actually do like the secure messages with my doctor. So maybe you dont' have to go in and wait in line.  To be able to re-fill perscriptions without having to click on other pages would be great too. 

I think I'm thinking I'm going to move this up here - it's kind of the same as a list of medications. Alright cool. What else?

Yeah. So, I guess you actually do have your rated disabilities, combined rating and individual ratings. Acutally that would be awesome too.  It would probalby be along the same lines.  Get rid of the other one. I like that one.

Cool.

And the share your VA medical records with communit care centers/doctors. If we were able to do that, it would be amazing. Because usually you can't get in within 30 days to your doctor. That would actually help out with a lot of benefits too.... I wonder hm. The status for medical supplies would be awesome too.  There are people who actually have a lot of like, I wear a prosthetic. So if I need socks and stuff like that - it would be aweosme to order. 

This says order status - are you expecting to be able to place orders? Actually you can place orders, but you have to jump through hoops to get it. 

So from this page, would it be important to you to beable to do that more directly?

yes.

Okay, cool.  Alright. Is there anything here that just seems irrelevant to you that you wouldn't are to see.

So, we have ebenefits which is a website that tracks for the GI bill benefits.  Your claim and appela status tracks it. So those, I mean, if they oculd put all that we do on ebenefits on VA.gov... we could get rid of ebenefits and have everything in one place. 

I can definitely see what that is important. So we have health records. Waht else do you want tos ee ont he page. 

DELETED HERE ON ACCIDENT. GO THROUGH RECORDING.

As we go through this let's pretend other sites don't exist - don't hold back. 

My dependents would be great as well.

What specifically?

I want to be able tos ee who is classified as my depenedents, if I have to take a depenedent off - I want to be able to do it in one click.  

Manage with one click. Okay. Any of these other ones feel imporant to you?

To change your user name and password. And I like the set up the 2 factor authentication.

Okay. And why is that important to you?

So then I don't have to do the where ou put your user name... Oh are you talking about... sorry.. the 2 factor authentication is important because i feel liek I'm protecting my information. BEcause a lot of times you have thse hackers. To have a 2 factor would be beneficial. 

Alright cool.

Track your VA disability claim and appeal status would be another one. 

How is that different to you for updates about your appeal status?

Beacuse when you initially file a claim, it ... on your status they break it down.  They tell you what phase you're in.  The updates on your claim and appeal status... Um, you know.  I guess that's really different now that I'm thiking about it.  If I had to put track your disability claim or appeal status over the other one.

Are you axpecting actions, or just a tracker?

A tracker.

Okay, cool.  I feel like we're ina pretty good place with this group. Before we organize them are there any other one shat you
d like to see?

Your VA medical center.

Okay let's start organinzing those - I'll keep these down here in case you want to come back to htem.  I'm oging to move thease back up here. Sorry it takes a second to organize these thigns.  I just want to get them in a palce that we can work with them pretty easily.  So now we can start prioritizing them on the page. What would you want to see front and center ast the top? What is the most important?

Health records.

You meantioned you accesst aht quite a bit, put that at the top.

SEcure messages with my doctor. Scheduling appointments.

Can you elaborate on what you'd like tos ee for your va medical centser?

Just where you;re getting your healthcare from.

Okay, so just the name of it?

Yeah.

Okay. I"ll group it with this other one. Alright. What else over here would you want to see as a priority item?

Ummmmm. I'm going to do a list of your prescriptions next to secure messages with myd octor.  And then the order status in that same area.

Okay, I"ll move this guy over here.

Track your va disability claim. 

Would that be it's own section?

Uh, yeah.

I would do change your username and password, all the way to the right. Yeah that's perfect.

And would you expect to beable to do that on this page?

Yeah. So not a separate page to manage that kind of stuff.

I would do... underneath that. I would do the set up 2 factor authentication,.  That seems like it goes together.

Yeah, I would agree with that. Alright.

Under my health records - share your va medical records. 

So kind of like a records little group there, that makes sense.

And then... your depenedents. And I don't know where I would....Iw ould put that under the set up 2 factor authentication. Alright. Jsut beause that's all... I would actually move scheduling appts and put that under secure messages with your doctor.  

Are your doctors always at your va medical center?

No

Alright. How about these three that are sitting out here still.  

I would move... rate your disabilities. I'd put that with the track your disability claim. As well as your GI bill benefits. 

With these other ones?

Yeah. And the housing grant as well.  Because that all goes together.  

Can you tell me more about why these all go together?

Because it involves... it has to do with your rating of your disability and the benefits that come with that. 

Is your housing bill benefits tied directly to your disability benefits.

Your housing is tied to disability yes. I am 100% and there's lots of...I hate to say it...perks. You only have to serve 30% active duty then your eligible for the 911 bill.

Okay, we've made some groups. We can do a couple things. We can change the size of these, or move them top to bottom to figure out what it th emost important?

I like the first idea.

D o you feel go about these separate groups that we've made? Or should anything be moved around?

I wonder if my prescriptions should be moved? 

Like a health center?

yes?

This is kind of another medical one... do you still wnat to see it separate?

Nah, I'd put it with the medical.

Okay we have 3 really clear sections.

So let's say... ya know.  This could be the most important thing... maybe something along side of it. YOu mentioned a side bar when we first started talking? Using the size as the way to reflect the importance, tell me when to stop. (medical center)

I would go smaller, okay.

Does this place feel right ont he page to you? It could be anywhere.

Yeah, that feels right (to the left).

HJow about these other two groupings that we have here? We have the benefits chunk and stuff about you.

Right. Um. I would leave change, usernamame and password in the right hand corner (referring to all profile things)

If we're going to use size as teh reflection, should it be bigger or smaller.

Um. I think it... I don't know. okay.

How about these benefits down here?

I'd put them on the left hadn side - separate.

ARe they equally important to you?

Yes.

If this was your page when you logged in, woul dthis be representative of something useful to you?

I think it would, i think it would be easy to access everything. And I'm able to just click and I"m right where I need to be.  

Okay. 

Is there anything that's missing? Totally fine if you're good with this.

I think I'm good with what I got. 

Great, alright. Taht is awesome. I really appreciate your help with that.  Let me see... just looking through the other questions that I have here.  Are there any kind of notifications or updates that you might want to see? How  would you want tos ee that displayed?

Um. Can I add to it?

Yeah.

So I would also like a direct button for my shot records. Okay. That's another one that's really important.

Can you elaborateon why that's important? And how that' diff from your health records?

You would be able to keep track of what shots you need every year/how often you need them. Yeah.

Okay. And where would you want to put that?

I'd put it with the healthcare.

Alright. Done.

Anything else?

I don't thikn so.

Okay great.  Then the last thing I want to review with you is the current logged in homepage.  This is the current page. And I think this is what you were describing when we first started talking.  Tell me how what you see lines up with your expectations?

Refill/track your prescriptpins. appeal status for your claim. And then your 911 bill, your VA medical records, benefit letters. Your request your military records. All of those things need to be tehre except the military records.

so the first things you listed - are those the things you access the most?

I access my prescriptions and my appts and my va medical records. And occationally, I will use the um. check your claim or appeal status. 

Okay cool, jthat's helpful.  And this is what you typically see when you log in?

Yeah.

So, we talked a lot about a personalized page. How do yous ee this being different from your profile?

Are ou talking about the homepage now?

I'm talking about what we designed here, and how that would be different corm you profile.  I"m just trying tos ee how those pages are divided on the website. Or maybe they're not.

Umm... I don't really know.  I don't see a difference. 

That's totally fine. That is very helpful. Is there anything that you would like to be able to do from the pages that we haven't talked about?

You can already download medical records. I think that is... it would be nice to ve able to download your shot records separately. Everything is where it needs to be, it's easier and less stress to get things.

Um. so last question I guess, what would you call this page? If you saw it in the navigatin of the website - is there any name that comes to mind for it?

Uhhhh... 

It's okay if there isn't.

I'm trying to... ha. It's like a profile. So I mean. 

If it feels like a profile to you, there's no wrong answers to me.

They could change the name to like 'veterans center'.  Everything is pretty much centered around what the vet needs. And if we could customize the homepage for each veterans I think a LOT more vets would use it.  I know half of vets don't use va.gov and don't even know about ebeneftis... how do they check their records.

I hope that with this work it'll provide something that's valuable enough to ge people to get all the benefits they've earned and use the site and make their lives easier.

Any other thoughts or questions before we wrap up?

I don't.

I hope you have a good rest of your day, stay safe and sane during your quarantine Haha.

You too.

Bye.


