# Logged-in homepage, P5, May 14 2020, 1:30PM EST

**Note-taker: Rebecca Walsh**

## Notes
**Note:** Notes begin after the Moderator began recording the screen/audio. 

  - *Start recording.*

**M:** Do you remember the last time you visited VA.gov. What were you doing? <br/>
**P:** It was just last week to check on a claim.

**M:** Do you remember if you logged in? <br/>
**P:** Yes

**M:** Can you explain whether or not that was a typical experience for you? <br/>
**P:** Yeah, typical. I'd go in there sometimes just to see what's on there. I can be nosy, but just to see and look around. I also do that so I'm more comfortable navigating through it.

**M:** Tell me about some other times you've gone to the site. <br/>
**P:** I have health benefits but because I'm retired, I don't use them. There's other stuff that's on there - like weight management and stuff. I think it's nice they have that out there. Wellness! Oh and I used it for education to see for my son.

**M:** Do you log in?  <br/>
**P:** I always log in. I feel like it's the best way to get the most use out of it? <br/>

**M:** Why? <br/>
**P:** I don't know. Because I can actually see my stuff, so I don't see things that don't pertain to me.

**M:** Tell me about th ebenefits you currently recieve. <br/>
**P:** Compensation for disability. And because my son is going to school and he's over age, they give me dependent compensation. 

**M:** When you say benefit, what do you mean? <br/>
**P:** He's a dependent. I get extra money because I'm paying for his schooling.

--- 

### Task 1: 
_Shares screen and explains the exercise_

**M:** What is the first thing you would want to see? <br/>
**P:** My eBenefits.

**M:** What do you mean? <br/>
**P:** Just to see my disabilities in there. 

**M:** So just a list of the things that you're ... <br/>
**P:** A list, uh huh.

**M:** Would you expect to do anything in there, or just informational? <br/>
**P:** Just informational.

**M:** Sky's the limit, so throw things out there. Anything else come to mind that would be useful for you? <br/>
**P:** Claims.

**M:** What about the claims would you want to see? <br/>
**P:** How to file the claims. Or information on how to file claims.

**M:** You mentioned that the last time you went was to check on a claim... <br/>
**P:** Yes, and also to check on claims. Like the claims status.

**M:** Would this just be informational or would you want to be able to do something with that? <br/>
**P:** It kind of sucks that when a claim is denied, you have to either mail it or fax a supplemental claim. I wish I could email it, instead of having to mail or fax.

**M:** What else? <br/>
**P:** I guess Health would be nice. Like more health benefits. 

**M:** Can you go into more detail? <br/>
**P:** Because I know they're there but I don't know how to use them. More info.

**M:** What else? <br/>
**P:** Trying to think if it was easy or hard to check on... I don't remember if I had to go through um... man, it's been a year. I'm trying to remember for my benefits for my son. My other son graduates, so I guess I'll have to add him.

**M:** So you'd need to add a dependent. <br/>
**P:** Right. I can't think of anything else right now!

--- 

### Task 2

**Shares premade stickies**

**P:** Oh, I like that 'download your letters and documents'

**M:** Why do you like that? <br/>
**P:** Because it's easy, if it's right there! You don't have to dig to try to find it. Just, click! Yknow.

**M:** Would you want to have all of the letters on your page, or would it take you somewhere? <br/>
**P:** More than likely, it would be... it would be nice to click on it and it shows you. You don't have to go to another page and log in. Um... 
'Documents you've uploaded to va.gov,' that would be good! Because right now, I don't think they show up.

**M:** Why would that be important for you? <br/>
**P:** So that I don't upload them again. So that it's not redundant.
And then you should... 'Track your VA disability claim or appeal status'

**M:** Which wording do you like 'Updates on your claim or appeal status' vs. 'Track your VA disability claim or appeal status.'? <br/>
**P:** The second one, because it lets you know ... <br/>
Oh yeah, 'Your rated disability' - that's what I meant by ebenefits. <br/>
I guess your 'Your GI Bill benefits balance' - I don't use it yet, but when I do, I'd like to know my balance.

**M:** And for that, would you want to do anything with it, or will it just be a balance statement. <br/>
**P:** Just a balance statement, you can't get a refund once you get the money. <br/>
How about that 'Upload claim or appeal supporting documents...' 

**M:** Okay, so that would be important to you? We'll group them by importance later. <br/>
**P:** Those other things would be great if I used them, but I don't use the VA medical center.  I don't use it yet, but we'll see with this whole COVID thing. If I were, those would be... 'Medical Center' would go with 'Medical Supplies' and 'Prescriptions' and 'Downloading Medical Records'...

'Schedule an appointment at the VA' what does that mean? I guess it means to make a doctor's appointment, but I'm not sure. Because that's all you do at the VA hospital ... keyword 'Hospital'

**M:** Ok, any of these other things of interest to you? <br/>
**P:** No, I used to do computer stuff, so some of this other stuff... I mean, I know it's there.

**M:** So if you know it's there, would you want to have access to it elsewhere or do you not really care about them. <br/>
**P:** Don't care!

**M:** Let's start moving these to your page. What would be most important to see when you log in. <br/>
**P:** Ebenefits with my list of disabilities. For me, I just like to know what my percentage is.

**M:** What else would come along with that, as far as importance? <br/>
**P:** Oh! Track your claim and VA Disabilities. <br/>
Claims information on how to file would be #3 most importance... then Email info for supplemental... would be #4. <br/>
And then 'Download your VA letters' and 'Documents I've uploaded to the VA.

**M:** Do these go together for you? <br/>
**P:** Yeah!

**M:** Why? <br/>
**P:** Because otherwise it would be duplicating. It's almost the exact same thing. If I upload them, that means they have them and I should be able to download them. The letters and documents should already be there.

**M:** Are these documents things you've provided only? <br/>
**P:** It's also stuff they provide you, so it is 2 separate things I guess. You're able to click on the letters they send you and see it. <br/>
And then 'Add a dependent' and 'Your dependents' would be on the same screen, I'd assume. You can see who you have and you can add or delete, y'know? <br/>
Once you're able to do that, it's not gonna be set in stone, because there's probably gonna be another form in there that you fill out that the VA looks at and fill out. They get the final say, you don't get to just add them because you feel like you should.

**M:** There are a couple more over here...  <br/>
**P:** It would be GI Bill and Health benefits...

**M:** where would they be in terms of priority? <br/>
**P:** At the bottom.

**M:** And you said the GI Bill would just be a balance, right? <br/>
**P:** Right.

**M:** And then Health benefits, can you tell me what you'd want to see? <br/>
**P:** I guess uh... I know you have to go to the VA. If there was more stuff locally online that we could do, and not just doing stuff by yourself. But as a group, where you can talk.

**M:** How do you feel about this [concept we've created]? <br/>
**P:** Good.

**M:** Do we need to group anything else together? <br/>
**P:** All of the disabilities stuff can go on one link. You'd just click on it.

**M:** What does the link say? <br/>
**P:** eBenefits and VA Disability Claims.

**M:** Does it go to another page or? <br/>
**P:** I don't want to go to anymore pages. I just want to click eBenefits, and see the rating. Since it's been moved, I have to log in and out of multiple pages.

**M:** Is there a way to categorize these ones? <br/>
**P:** Yeah I guess 'VA Letters and Documents'

**M:** Does this still reflect the priority of things in how you'd like to see them on the page? <br/>
**P:** Yes

**M:** Something we haven't really talked about is that some sites give you the option to opt in to notifications when they log in. What would you expect to be notified of when you log in? <br/>
**P:** If there's any changes. Say if anything changes in my benefits, I'd get a notice or something.

**M:** Where would you expect to see this notice? <br/>
**P:** In the right hand corner. Wherever the log in is.

**M:** Is there anything that you feel like is missing from this? <br/>
**P:** It's pretty comprehensive, it looks good, I like it.

---
### Task 3

**M:** Let me review a couple of other screens. This is the current homepage. How does this align with your expectations for a logged in experience.? <br/>
**P:** It works, but I don't like how you can't... y'know. It just seems like a lot, now that I look at it. Eh, actually no. But I'd like to have the supplemental claims filing online. <br/>
I don't think I've even gone into my Records.

**M:** So you said... 'Email info for supplemental claim' - you want to file? <br/>
**P:** If you mail it, then how do you know they got it? Because you have to pay to get it registered. You take a chance in sending your SSN. People break into mailboxes, which is crazy.

**M:** I don't know a lot about the dependent verification. Is there anything else you'd need? <br/>
**P:** No, that's about it.

**M:** Gonna show you another screen, I'm interested to get your reaction to this screen. <br/>
**P:** That's actually... that's nice, for someone who's getting their... I like that.

**M:** What would you expect this to look like, for you? <br/>
**P:** For me!? I want the claims and appeals on top! Maybe that other stuff wouldn't show up on mine because it doesn't apply to me. Claims and appeals, dependent application... compensation payments.

**M:** Is this Claims and Appeals section enough or too much? <br/>
**P:** No, that's actually nice, because right now you go to it and it shows too much extra stuff. I like that this shows just the most current. <br/>
And then it has your compensation payments, that's nice! But the prescriptions, I don't need... <br/>
This is a lot easier to look at. <br/>
I like the thing on the left hand side, you click on it and it just goes to what you need.

**M:** So it just kind of gives you the overview? <br/>
**P:** Right.

**M:** Did you notice the content on the right? <br/>
**P:** Yeah, that's pretty neat. Because it gives you some info on events nearby, that's pretty cool!

**M:** Is this where you'd expect to find that sort of information you were talking about [health care section]? <br/>
**P:** Yeah. I like how it looks, of course my stuff is all at the bottom.

**M:** So our session has been focused on a personalized page. How do you see this as being different from a PROFILE? <br/>
**P:** Um... like my profile? I would say it's the same. 

**M:** What would you call this page, if you had to call it? <br/>
**P:** I'd personalize it with my name! <br/>
That concept is a lot easier to look at! For me, I like to look at stuff like... what am I looking for? Each of these 4 categories at the same time. If you open one thing, you're not able to see the other categories. You don't have to close and open over and over. If you want to see something, you have to open them all individually. Here, you get a nice, clean overview. You get to see what's most current and what's most helpful. You can see what's under the categories all at once.
