## Logged-in Homepage P6

[Tressa Furner]

*[Participant #15] [5/13/2020] [3:15 PM EST]*

## Intro - 3 minutes

Thanks for joining us today! My name is Liz Lantz and I have some colleagues on the line observing and taking notes. Our team is working on re-designing the page you see when you log in to VA.gov so that it's  personalized to your needs. Today, I'd like to talk about your experience when you log in to the site, and then we'll go through an activity that will help us understand what would make a personalized page most useful to you.

Before we start, a few things I want to mention:

- **This entire session should take about 45-60 minutes.** I want to be sure not to keep you much longer, so I may occasionally prompt you with the next question or topic.

- **In this session, we want to hear your honest opinions.** We are not testing your ability. We just want to improve the logged-in experience to better meet Veteran's needs. I won't be offended by any opinions you express, and I whole heartedly welcome your feedback.

- **You and I will go through a collaborative activity to help our team understand how we can design a personalized page that best meets your needs.** We'll use a virtual board to create a rough version of a page that would best meet your needs and expectations - I want to emphasize this is not a generic page for all Veterans.  I'll drive the mouse so you focus on our conversation. Again, please note we're not testing you in any way, and there are no right or wrong answers.

  If time allows, I have card sort set up that we can jump over to after the virtual board.

- **If for any reason and at any time you want to stop the session, please let me know.**

- **Do you have any questions so far?**

- **Are you comfortable if I record my screen and audio as we talk today?** We use the recordings to confirm that we have captured your opinions accurately. The recordings are destroyed after we complete analysis, and none of your comments will be attributed to you directly.

  - If yes: Once I start recording, I am going to confirm that you are ok with me recording this session once more.

  - *Start recording.*

  - I have started recording. I'd like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record my screen and audio as we talk today?

**P**: Yes. 

Do you remember the last time you visited VA.gov?

Not off the top of my head. I think I may have looked on there to find out information. My father was a vet and he passed a way in feb, so I went on there to figure ou how to get his DD214 and stuff.

What about other times you've gone ont he site

I don't know actually. I do use MyHealtheVet. To order prescriptions and check my appt calendar for dr appt and stuff.

That makes sense. Alright, when you visit va.gov or my healthevet.

Everytime.

Okay grea. Can you tell mea bout the benefits you're currently recieving.

I am a 50% disable vet. I recieve healthcare from the VA. I've also used VRNE for re-employment services. And I don't know, I think that's it.

That's helpful, that'll be a good starting point for us as we contnue on.  I am going to share my screen... mural etc. Think about anything and everything VA... This is personal to you...Let's get started to create these items that we'll put on your page.  Then we'll organize them.  What's the most important?

The page that I go to more often than any other is MyHealthEvet.  That's the va page that I use more than anything else.  I use the secure messaging and the prescriptions so I don't have to call them annoy them.  I also look at my health record from them. I don't remember exactly what it's called, but it has all my dr notes and scans that I have had done. 

I'll put that as a separate thing.

So really, I go into everything on myhealthevet. If I've had blood tests done, I go back in and review them and see how they've changed over the years. So, yeah.

What about...you also mentioned checking appts.

If there was a way to have like a calendar on the page, that would be great. 

Why would that be useful to you? 

Then it could be for more than appts, it could remind me that I need to order prescriptions on a certain day. I have inhalers, because I have asthma and I don't use my inhaler everyday.  Sometimes I still have medicine and don't realize that I need to get new RX because that one has expired.

Upcoming rx is expiring...

Like rx reminders or something. Ummm. I don't know.

You also mentioned that you're 50% disabled, anything with that that would be helpful to see.

I don't think so... most of it is... no? 

That's fine. It should only have the things that are relevant to you.

Anything for VRNE or unemployement?

NO, I haven't use them in a couple years, it was just somethign that I had used.

I'd like to talk a little bit more about this reminders ft. You said a calendar on the page, can you elaborate on how you would expect the calendar to remind you.

So I use google calendar for work a lot, and I can set up reminders in there of things that are coming up or things that I have to do by the end of the week and it'll shoot me an email saying 'hey you need to do this.'

That makes sense, alright. Next step... team came up with some stickies that you might be interested in. Could you take a look and tell me your thoughts...

Um. So. Ummmm. So I don't personally use community care llcations beacuse I only go to the VA unless they tell me to go someplace else. That's because with me being 50% disabled, it's not really cost effective to try to go to another doctor since I have a clinic here in town.  Ummm. 

I think we talked about rx.  I'll get rid of that one.

MMhmm. Umm. So when you talk about your personal information. Is that where it's located? What do you mean by that?

Reflecting back your personal information to you on  the page.

Right, for me, eventually maybe... I don't know. For me, anything that has to do with disability claim can kind of go together. I don't mind having the option of um making that particular one bigger so I can see everything under it. Or hovering over a box so I can see all of the different options that are under that.  

For disability?

Yep. Right. Cause I'm one of those... I like simple. And um, I don't like a bunch of stuff on my page. Um. Because then it starts getting cluttered and I get distracted because I want to read everything. So having headers with relevant stuff to that header is kind of how I work best.

We can just put one header ont he page and build from there

As far as changing password/personal info and stuff like that. For me, I"m used to seeing it under 'profile' or 'settings'.  

Do you have a preference on those words?

it doesnt matter. All that kind of stuff is usually all together. 

(moderator is grouping stickies) What about dependents?

I only have my husband, and my husband is a service person too so I don't call him a dependent. And then, yeah. I think, yeah.

(grouping)

So. I think, um...for me having all of my health stuff in one location.  Would work out well. 

Would secure messaging be under that?

That one can be by itself. I don't know why. There's no reason. I don't know.

Are there any other health related yellow boxes that should be added?

As far as scheduling appts at the VA should be added to the health items. Probably your VA medical center. My medical center is where I can find all of my health information. Everything goes under that.  And then. Probably security. 2-factor authentication and direct deposit.

Would that be anothrer label?

I don't know.

That's okay, whatever works for you! This can be rough, no worries. Cool. I think that makes a lot of sense.  We'll organize those things.

As far as the payments made to the VA by me, I don't do that. With me being 50% I don't pay anything. That would not be anything that would pertain to me.  It does to my husband, but not to me.

What about payments that you receive?

I don't usually, because I live like 10 miles away from the clinic.  I don't usually ask for mileage re-imbursement.

Anything else here? I want to make sure I don't miss anything.

So having access to ebenefits would be beneficial. Like having one spot... I do know that it is like that. Kind of having access to everything on one page... kind of linking them to where they actually go.

What if everything worked ont hat page and ebenefits was gone?

I don't know.  One thing that would be good is if I log into my homepage then I wouldn't have to log into everything else. So if I log into my homepage I can get to my healthevet, ebenefits without logging in again.

I'm just going to put these down here for now. What would you liek to see at the top of the page? What is priority?

Secure messaging because that's usually how I talk to my dr. Um. So having it someplace where it's easily accessible.

The calendar was something else and reminders 

That would be a great thing to see first thing on the page where I log in.  That way I don't have to go hunting for where my appts are.  I can be like oh look, I have a dr appt, or I need a new rx beacuse I'm about out.

Would it be most helpful? A calendar or coming up this week?

Um.  Week. Month. I don't know.  I kind of use them all for work.  I don't know. I don't think I really have a preference. 

I know you said simple headings...I have this dropdown thing...

So. it's not a huge priority (referring to disability dropdown).  It would be nice if it was a ribbon at the top.  On my homepage would be things that are going on that could potentially effect me. Or if there are new laws coming up that deal with the VA. Or if theyre having any big events like a webinar.  That would be really good to have on the homepage so I feel little more involved in what is goign on.  Because right now I kind of feel disconnected.

Okay, alright.  That would not be a nav, that would be right on the homepage?

Right. On the calendar the other thing that would be nice is if the clinic or whatever that I go to... if they have events, that would be nice to have on the calendar. If it's one that I would like to go to.

Right. Great. Okay. I know you said the VA medical center was in the dropdown that you use. So, we'd put that up here.  Va medical center would be on another page. Is this what you were thinking of?

Okay. Alright. I'm gonna put this here.

It's a little difficult to imagine. I'm trying to imagine what it might look like.  

It is hard, we are looking at a bunch of virtual post-it notes.  We want to make sure you have access to the things that you need.

Security and profile can be joined. Security could be under profile. I think? And then they can just kind of be away somewhere.  They can be hyperlinked, but it doesn't even need to be on there. You know on your gmail account, it's just a little spot that's out of the way. You only use it when you really need it. 

Like gmail you have your face and then you get to those other things...(grouping) then you end up with a very clean page. Calendar, messaging, easy access to everything else. Is anything misssing?

Ummmm. I don't think so. 

Okay. Great. Well let me jump over to the current homepage if you feel like this is good. I"m interested to et your thoughts on how this experience lines up with this.  Is this familiar to you?

Yes. Um. I don't like the boxes. For me, I would much rather have healthcare and then be able to see everything underneath it.  For me personally, I don't need to see all the extra stuff if I'm not going to be able to use it.  I understand where it could be useful especially for people who don't know what they're looking for and don't know where to look. To have options visible, I could see how that could be helpful.  But for me, it's just too much.

So if there was something that you're trying to find, how would you find it?

A search bar. I'd probably search for it.

Any other thoughts or comments on this?

Um. No. 

Okay. There's one other thing I want to show you.  So this is a vision that one of my colleagues came up with. Does this line up with what you'd expect?

I would... for me this doesn't come across as a homepage.  For me it would be an overview of the health tab. So, it would be the overview and then like it has on the left hand side, it doesn't scream homepage to me. It screams a page that I went to. 

Okay, so it doesn't feel like a starting point.

Right, for me.  

Say this is what you saw, how would that make you feel?

For me, it's too much information. It's information overload. 

It's robust for sure. It's helpful to get your feedback on that. Were you going to say something else?

No, I smiled and giggled a little.

Why?

I don't know.  Sometimes I feel like an odd duck.  If this is easier for most everybody else, then I'm pretty easy going, so if this is what they decide the way it's going to look then it may get some time to get used to. But I'd not complain. 

What if this is what was designed, but you could customize it?  Or remove some things? Is that something that you would make use of?

Yes, having the option to close boxes that are not relevant would be very beneficial.  Having the ability to customize it would be.

Some of these things are things that you talked about...

Right, it's more that all of the info is in one place. So my eyes don't know exactly where to look first, they're sort of bouncing all over the place.

This is very helpful.  I feel like an odd duck too sometimes, everyone has really different needs. But a lot of the things you talked about are important to other people as well. You're not alone. Well, those are all the questions and things, any other thoughts or questions?

Um, no, I don't think so.

We appreciate you... thank you.

Bye.







