# Session Notes from Participant 1, Tuesday, Feb. 16, 2021, 9 - 10 a.m.
Health Record (Medications, Allergies, and Immunizations), February 2021

Start recording.
- I have started recording. I'd like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record my screen the audio as we talk today?" Yes. 

## Warm-up Questions - 10 minutes

To begin, we would like to get to know you a little better and understand your experiences with medications, allergies (or intolerances, like lactose intolerance), and any immunizations that you received in the past few years (such as flu shots or COVID).
- How much of your medical care do you receive from the VA?  A great deal. 
- How do you keep track of your medications, immunizations, and allergies? I use the va website it gives me a list of allergies and medications. Refills as well. 
- Do you look at allergies: normally just a list of medications. 
  - What do you like about your current process? It is simple to go to and I refill  my prescriptions and the outpatient clinic can authorize refills. 
  - What is frustrating about keeping track of your medications? No, the va website has been suer friendly I don’t have any thing bad to say. 
- How do you keep your VA providers up-to-date on your medications? For instance, maybe you stopped taking a medication or you were prescribed a new medication from a non-VA provider, how did you let your VA providers know? There one has been one instance was when I got the prescription and I use my Medicare and Tricare for list for that. The physical with the va doctor I let them know who I saw and what was done. The specific event I had knee surgery and had pain meds. 
- What until an appointment: correct. I get that it was only recent that I have had to do that but I told them before the surgery we were getting ready for it but I didn’t not tell them, specifically the medications. 
  - If you take any supplements, vitamins, or over-the-counter medications, do you share that with your VA providers?  We usually discuss that at my physical like the new prescriptions or if  I am taking the same thing. 
    - If yes, how did those experiences of letting your VA provider go? What methods did you utilize to communicate the change? 
- Have you ever let your VA provider know about any changes to your allergy history? During a physical we discus that and there aren’t significant changes. We talk about the medication changes at that point., 
  - Were those list easy or hard to understand? If hard, what did you find challenging?
- How can we make it easier for you to communicate to your VA providers? Like to call and get ahold of someone but with COVID it ahs been hard. Maybe in the future we will need to do video chat more. The video type chat will be more user friendly than trying to call on the phone. 
- Secure messaging: The messaging, yes if I had something significant I would use secure messaging but again phone communication is hard with the office here so secure messaging we will see if it works out from yesterday. 

## Mural Activity - 30 minutes

Next, we will complete an activity that helps prioritize and group information that we could display online in medication, allergy, and immunization sections. Let me share my screen with you, so we can start this activity: Mural link.

### Immunizations Section - 10 minutes
[Mural Screenshot](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/blob/master/products/health-care/questionnaire/research/health-record/session-notes/mural-screenshots/P01-Immunizations.png)

It is influence and covid 19, important it is very important. 

Dates: I suppose it would be user friendly if it were on the same line as the shot it would be user friendly. It would be very important yes. 

Reaction: it would be very important to.

Dose: I think that would be important. It would be for covid 19 and when you got the first and second one. 

By mouth: I think that is moderately important.  

Right left: That is slightly important. 

Product: I would say that was important.

Lat number: Important as well. 

Healthcare profession: Moderately important. 

Editing reaction: moderately. I think I would be able to add the reactions I was having, to open sores blisters something like that. 

Add immunization: I think if it were am immunization form outside of the va I could add it myself. I would put that as very important. 

Comments: moderately important. 

Schedule: I would put that under important. 

CDC: I think that is something they would put in there to keep the CDC’s information if I were going state to state or country so they know where we travels. 

We were thinking it were links to their page for recommended infomration: I would put that in important. 

Recommended screenings: I would pout that under important as well.

Difference: the recommended screenings is something coming from the VA instead of the CDC.

Anything else that wasn’t included: No I think you covered most of the important thing and it had good coverage. 

Is there anything that should be added to immunizations that we didn't already review? 

I think the reaction should be with the particular immunization so you don’t have to jump back and fourth to tie them together. Under the important the first dose/second dose, lot number and product name to be links together as well. I think that if you tie the immunization with the healthcare provider would be good. Then again if you could link the immunization site to the particular immunization site that would be important. 

### Medications Section - 10 minutes
[Mural Screenshot](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/blob/master/products/health-care/questionnaire/research/health-record/session-notes/mural-screenshots/P01-Medications.png)

Is there anything that should be added to medications that we didn't already review? 

Medication: important

Prescribed: moderately important

Description: important

Quantity: slightly important

Duration: slightly important

Status: important

Prescription type: moderately important

How it was take: slightly important

Instructions: important

RX number” slightly important

Refills: important

Last refilled: slightly important

Expires: moderately important

Pharmacy: Important

Learn more: Important, you can read the information about the medication, how it is used, what it is used for and reactions

Side effects: Very important

Warnings: very important

Add medication: important

Comments: moderately important

Taken as prescribed: important

Anything to add: I think that is pretty good. 

**Grouping**<br/>
I think that if you took the medication and linked it up within the duration and when it was taken and how, along with the side effects and warnings. 

Everything at the top together: yes

Any other groups: I think maybe if you can link refills so you can track it and order it in time to get it on time that would be good. 

This and this: yes

Anything else: No I don’t think so. 

Any other groupings: I think if you link the prescribed and if it were va or non-va it might be helpful. 

Those two: correct. 

I don’t see other linkage that would be important. 

### Allergies Section - 10 minutes 
[Mural Screenshot](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/va.gov-team/blob/master/products/health-care/questionnaire/research/health-record/session-notes/mural-screenshots/P01-Allergies.png)

Product: very important

Verified: important

document: important

effects: very important

comments : moderately important

dates: important

severity: very important

reported: moderately important

editing: moderately important

add: important

learn more: important

diagnosed:  Very important

Is there anything that should be added to allergies that we didn't already review?  No I think that covers everything.
	
**Groupings**<br/>
The first three questions in very important should be linked together. I would probably link the diagnosed with the allergy. I think the linking with the moderately important but who it was reported by.
This and this: yes. 

Any other grouping: I think were good here. 

## Wrap-up Questions - 5 minutes
- Pretend you developed a new medication allergy, such as a rash when you take penicillin. Would you add that medication allergy on the medication section and/or the allergy section? I think I would add it to both. 
- How often do you expect to update each of these sections? I think maybe a periodic basis would be good so if you didn’t have an appointment for the yearly physical you could update it prior to going in. I would say every 6 months would eb a good time frame
- If we could only build one of these topics into a pre-visit questionnaire, which one would you prefer?  I think maybe medication because I take a number of daily prescriptions so that is the most important to me right there. 
- Would you pick medications, allergies, and immunizations?
- Do you think adding these pages to a pre-visit questionnaire will help or not help you explain changes to your medications, allergies, and immunizations to your VA provider? Yes because if things have changed and you weren’t able to talk to the doctor they would be able to see if. If it were significant to me it may be more significant to the doctor for medication conflicts I don’t know. 
- Is there anything about medications, allergies, and immunizations that I should know about that I didn't cover today? No, I think it covered a good bit. 
- Do you have any final questions for me? No but it is good that the va can improve the doctor patient linkage for medications and immunizations. With covid 19 and the linkage between doctor and patient has been very important. 

## Thank-You and Closing - 5 minutes
Well we really appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us today. Your feedback is so helpful to us as we continue to work on the site and make sure it really works for Veterans.

Thanks! Lastly, do you know any other Veterans, caregivers, or service members who might be willing to participate in a future user research session? If Yes: Thank you! I'll have our team send you an email with a little blurb that you can pass along.

Great, well thank you so much again, and enjoy the rest of your day!

