# Conversation Guide: Health Record (Medications, Allergies, and Immunizations), February 2021

Start recording.

I have started recording. I'd like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record my screen the audio as we talk today?" Yes

## Warm-up Questions - 10 minutes

To begin, we would like to get to know you a little better and understand your experiences with medications, allergies (or intolerances, like lactose intolerance), and any immunizations that you received in the past few years (such as flu shots or COVID).
- How much of your medical care do you receive from the VA?  I would say about 50 percent, it was more but due to covid it has fallen much lower for sure. 
- How do you keep track of your medications, immunizations, and allergies? Typically I call in or I check out myhealthevet, one of the va websites.
- Just one area: Mostly medications. 
  - What do you like about your current process? Compared to other times, it was harder to find your medications online then they rolled into the new program and it wasn’t imported but the connection was man within 2 years and I had a name change so I have had to make calls to different POC to get it sorted.
  - I proved: yes. 
  - How: seeing everything in one place, seeing how many refills I have, if I need to reach out to the doctor. Those would be the top three.
  - What is frustrating about keeping track of your medications? Not really actually. 
- How do you keep your VA providers up-to-date on your medications? For instance, maybe you stopped taking a medication or you were prescribed a new medication from a non-VA provider, how did you let your VA providers know? It still 85 percent of the time is calling. 
  - If you take any supplements, vitamins, or over-the-counter medications, do you share that with your VA providers? Typically I do, yeah. 
  - Same method: yes, 85 percent is the call and the other 15 percent is in person with the nurse is when I mention. 
    - If yes, how did those experiences of letting your VA provider go? What methods did you utilize to communicate the change?
- Have you ever let your VA provider know about any changes to your allergy history?
  - If yes, how did those experiences of letting your VA provider go? What methods did you utilize to communicate the change?
- Have you ever received an immunization at a non-VA facility, maybe a non-VA provider's office or a pharmacy? Pharmacy for sure, the flu shot. It depends, I will do it at the va if I am there than 2020 I did it at CVS because it was down the street so I got it done there.
- Call and let them know: Yupp. 
- Covid vaccine: nope. I have gone in and signed up for the alert when it is my turn. It will be awhile for me to hear back. 
- How do you prepare for your appointment when you have changes you would like to discuss with your VA provider? I haven’t had video calls; I have had them call me directly on the phone but nothing over video. I don’t do much to get ready I have an idea of what to talk about and updates as we are talking then go from there. 
- Do you utilize MyHealtheVet? Yes. 
  - Have you ever checked your medication list on there? Yes, that is what I meant not ebenefits. I look at test results and medication to check it out. 
    - Were those list easy or hard to understand? If hard, what did you find challenging?
    - Secure messaging : yes. I haven’t used it often but I have messaged primary care a few times and a prompt response as well. 
  - Have you ever utilized secure message to notify your VA provider of medication, allergy, or immunization changes? Probably not, they have been the same for a long time. 
- How can we make it easier for you to communicate to your VA providers? Maybe having a submit category to upload documentation or an app on the phone. Most people do everything on a handheld device vs a computer. So have a web app or an app to update it and they can approve once they do their review. 

## Mural Activity - 30 minutes

Next, we will complete an activity that helps prioritize and group information that we could display online in medication, allergy, and immunization sections. Let me share my screen with you, so we can start this activity: Mural link.

#### Immunizations Section - 10 minutes

Vaccine: that is clear, I think instead of influenza because not everyone knows what it is so it should be flu shot or have (flu). COVID 19 is find. The stuff on the right I can see that it may be referring to the vaccine. There is an extra lot number so it may be dose one and two. Very important

Lot number: moderately important

Date received: very important, there should be an easier way to link the date and vaccine. 

Professional: very important

Reaction: very important

Dose: important

By mouth: important

Area: slightly important

Product name: very important

Editing: important. That would allow you do edit if you have had any allergic reaction to a shot or reactions from the injection

Add: important

Comments: moderately important

Schedule: very important

CDC: moderately important. I think at a certain point in the future covid 19 would be around like the flu but right now that might not be important. I would still keep it there.

Recommended: I would say important. It would be recommendation based on age, gender, ethnic group, things you may be more likely to get and if you haven’t had certain vaccines yet. That may recommend the immunizations you have not received. 

Is there anything that should be added to immunizations that we didn't already review?  No, I think this is pretty well rounded overall. 

Others say to print it: Yeah, I could see that but the certain demographic may have a harder time knowing how to do it. I don’t think it matters on the age if you can click a button and import it all into one page, it would be useful. I would put it at important. 

**Groupings**

So with the type of vaccine, date received, reaction, product name, and location. 

In another group I would day, schedule, add immunization, and recommended screenings. 

In a third section, it would be the number of dose, method, location.

The last category would be everything else, editing, comments, CDC, and the lot numbers. Oh and printing the record. 

Final changes: no, keep it that way. 

### Medications Section - 10 minutes

Medication: very important

Prescribed by: important

Description: moderately important

Quantity: very important

Duration: very important

Status: very important. It is the prescription

Non-va or va: important

Type: very important

Direction: very important

Rx number: very important

Refills: important

Last refilled: important

Expires: important

Ordered on: same, important. When the doctor wrote the prescription

Pharmacy: moderately important

Learn more: important. So what comes to mind when you get the medication and the list of papers it would be something similar. 

Side effects: important

Warnings: very important

Add: moderately important

Comments: moderately important

Taking as prescribed: moderately important

Is there anything that should be added to medications that we didn't already review? No not if there was only about the medication. If you needed to ask a question you can secure message the doctor. I would put that in important.

**Groupings**

Definitely the name, dosage, quantity, duration, directions, warning and rx number

Second group: method, status, refills remaining, refilled, ordered, expires, add side effects as well. 

Third: prescribed by, va/non va prescription, pharmacy, taking as prescribed, description. 

Last group: adding medication, writing comment, and then sending a secure message.  

Any final changes: no that’s good. 

### Allergies Section - 10 minutes

Allergen: very important

Verified: moderately important. Comes to mind was when was it tested and verified that you indeed have the allergy you mention.

Documenting: important

Reaction: very important

Comments: moderately important

Onset date: moderately important

Severity: very important

Reported by: slightly important

Editing: important

Add: very important

Learn more: important

Diagnosed: moderately important. Not super clear, if I saw that I wouldn’t know what they mean because between that and the verified. I think it is redundant. 

Which one would you keep: the verified and the date vs the diagnosed. 

Would that change where it would be: I would put that under slightly important than. 

**Groupings**

First group: I think everything in the very important group besides adding an allergy. 

Second: documentation, verified, onset date. 

Third: adding, editing reaction, comments. 

Last: add the last three. 

Look good or last minute moves: maybe change add and allergy to the yellow group but everything else is good. 

## Wrap-up Questions - 5 minutes

- Pretend you developed a new medication allergy, such as a rash when you take penicillin. Would you add that medication allergy on the medication section and/or the allergy section? Medication section
- How often do you expect to update each of these sections?  Maybe once a month or every two months. 
- Would you want to see these sections in a questionnaire before every VA appointment? As in when related to the appointment or how many times would you do it. I think definitely every time you have , lets say an individual goes in every three months do it than. Lets say someone goes in once a month if there could be a way to only send it to them every quarter instead of every time before the appointment. It would defer people from filling it out if it is everything. Maybe every 2-3 months instead of when you constantly get it. It’s like when you go in and you have to fill out everything and asked the same questions. Its better to do it prior because if your appointment is at 9 but don’t see the doctor until 930 because of the paperwork. You can just see the doctor if done before showing up. 
- Would you want to see these sections once every six months or some other time period?
- If we could only build one of these topics into a pre-visit questionnaire, which one would you prefer?  Very helpful because it saves time. No central place for medication because of HIPPA, if it’s not there the doctor can prescribe something that would cause side effects. If you can update the shillings like say you are 60 and didn’t have the shingles shot yet. For allergies people don’t think to tell their doctor because they may not know a medication ahs something they are allergic to. It would educate the person and the doctors so they have all of their medication so an accident doesn’t happen. 
- Would you pick medications, allergies, and immunizations? It would be a tough one between allergies and medication. I would go with medications because there is a larger chance of negative interactions. 
- Is there anything about medications, allergies, and immunizations that I should know about that I didn't cover today? Nothing comes to mind; it was well rounded. 

## Thank-You and Closing - 5 minutes

Well we really appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us today. Your feedback is so helpful to us as we continue to work on the site and make sure it really works for Veterans.

Thanks! Lastly, do you know any other Veterans, caregivers, or service members who might be willing to participate in a future user research session? If Yes: Thank you! I'll have our team send you an email with a little blurb that you can pass along.

Great, well thank you so much again, and enjoy the rest of your day!
