# Conversation Guide: Health Record (Medications, Allergies, and Immunizations), February 2021

Start recording.

I have started recording. I'd like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record my screen the audio as we talk today?" Yes I am. 

## Warm-up Questions - 10 minutes

To begin, we would like to get to know you a little better and understand your experiences with medications, allergies (or intolerances, like lactose intolerance), and any immunizations that you received in the past few years (such as flu shots or COVID).
- How much of your medical care do you receive from the VA? I go through private healthcare because I am fully employed and have health insurance. If I can leave the va resources to those that need it I will, that’s my way of looking at it. 
- How do you keep track of your medications, immunizations, and allergies? Actually I have a sheet of paper and keep it on the computer because when I go to a new doctor they want to know so I write it down. Its not very technically adapted but it works. 
  - What do you like about your current process? I do miss that there was a central part for the healthcare information, it all feed into one medical record. I moved from the East cost to here and I cannot retrieve the older medical records because they died and they cant do anything about it. It is irritating. I wish there were a central depository for health information. I know it is high in the sky. Other than that I miss the shot card like you’ve had a shot in January and they are good for 10 years. It seems disorganized. 
- How do you keep your VA providers up-to-date on your medications? For instance, maybe you stopped taking a medication or you were prescribed a new medication from a non-VA provider, how did you let your VA providers know?  Yeah, every time  I go in they ask if anything changes and it is up to me to remember it had changed and the dosage. Paper, in person communication. All of it. 
  - If you take any supplements, vitamins, or over-the-counter medications, do you share that with your VA providers? When they ask, yes, most ask when I go in and then it is up to me to remember. 
- Have you ever let your VA provider know about any changes to your allergy history? Yes. It has, same thing. When they ask for updates it is up to me to let them know if I have an allergy to something. 
- Flu shot each year: ayah when I remember it. The last few years I have. 
- Same way to let them know: yes. 
  - If yes, how did those experiences of letting your VA provider go? What methods did you utilize to communicate the change?
- Have you ever received an immunization at a non-VA facility, maybe a non-VA provider's office or a pharmacy?
- How do you prepare for your appointment when you have changes you would like to discuss with your VA provider?
- Do you utilize MyHealtheVet? I don’t recognize that. I have done interaction with the va but not that recently. 
- With non-va provider: yes and when it works they are good. There is not connectivity between them. If I go to the hospital I need a portal with hem and every health system, has their own portals and it is complex to track but I try.
- Why do you login: I will  login if I can get test results instead of relying on the doctor because its not always prompt. I normally don’t login. Maybe it is encouraged by the doctor that I see and if it turns out that I will return to them more then it becomes valuable as a resource for test results. In previous healthcare providers in MD, again I would logon periodically to remind myself when my last physical is and to remind myself to schedule on.  They are not overly helpful

## Mural Activity - 30 minutes

Next, we will complete an activity that helps prioritize and group information that we could display online in medication, allergy, and immunization sections. Let me share my screen with you, so we can start this activity: Mural link.

### Immunizations Section - 10 minutes

If I were looking at this I would question how do you determine what is important and what’s not. If I am traveling to somewhere and need a shot then that would become. I think the determination of importance isn’t just on age, but there is also travel. I have ran into that to. I like this but I would also want to have how long dose the immunization last. The flu was a year and tetanus would be every 10 years. Maybe where the immunization was listed in importance have (year needed). I have the date received there. 

Vaccine: Very important

How long it lasts: I would want to see it all at once, so very important

Date received: Very important.  Or you could say date received, then after having it say something link next October due. I think the idea of how long it is valid for would be good. Its like a one stop shop instead of trying to find it in different places.

Reaction: Slightly important, moved to important 


Dose: I think that would be at very important because it impacts the effectiveness like for COVID.

By mouth: slightly important

Area: not important

Product name: I have never paid attention to that until Covid so lets put that in moderately important. It is more important due to covid. I don’t think I have never seen it noted anywhere but with COVID is the first time anyone ahs paid attention to that. 

Lot number: same thing, it goes with the manufacturer

Profession: Important because it can very, I get it at the doctors and the drug store.

Editing:  I understand the words but the combinations doesn’t make sense to me. You would want that to be with the reactions. I presume there would be able to edit  date received to send a request to edit the date with supporting documents. I don’t want to edit more because people would go in and change it to what they want. I want the ability to request corrections to the data with supporting documentations. In other words I think, what if it is important for me to get the COVID shot to travel but I go in and edit it because I don’t want to get it. 

Send messages to the provider: who would maintain this, the provider? I think that is important, very important to send the secure message to the provider and be able to print. No lets make printing the record important. I don’t want to much at the top because than it becomes more meaningless.

Adding: I would need to send a message to the provide and asking them to add it with supporting documents.

Done as a message: Yes of course. It also depends on how responsive the provider is. If they are not than it goes back to the individual patient.

Comments: lets put that at slightly important. Are you envisioning this as my ability to comment on. I can’t see when I would use this. Okay let’s put that as not important

Schedule: very important

CDC: moderately important

Recommended: Those should be coming from my provider so I would say do you envision this as being proactive. Saying if I look at this it tells me hi its time tog et your flu vaccine. No, I am not sure how often I would go back and look at this. I would expect my health provider to ask if I got it. I would say this would go to the Not important. The mart version would be moderately important.

If I am going to travel I would then get that from the CDC. 

What if it is general recommendations: that’s a good point. Lets put that under slightly important. I am trying to envision how it would work, if it is interactive and it is available to me instead of going to my provider. Lets leave it the way it is. 

**Groupings**

Shot, lasts for, date received.

Second: CDC, recommended, recommend because it is all predictable for what I need. 

Under slightly important, I would move by mouth to not important because I don’t really care. If I need it I need it. 

Under very important I want to know when did I get the shot, lets move the professional to the very important. Lets move the secure message to provider and make corrections important as well. The secondary is reactions. Okay I think that looks good.

Lot number and product as a group. I don’t see that as very important but who knows it may be in the future.

If not covid, where would it be: I would put it at slightly important.

Any final changes: that is close enough.  

### Medications Section - 10 minutes

Medication: very important

Who prescribed it: very important

Description: slightly important

Quantity and duration: very important. The top category is like picking up the bottle so I would want to see that all at once.

Last, refilled, expires one, pharmacy, refills left, ordered on, rx number: all of that in very important. I see that as one line that pertains to that prescription. 

Directions and add what it is for because I know that when I got ibuprofen and get a different one, either generic or brand name I don’t track it. I don’t take many medication but I know people that do and I have heard more when they are older, they ask if it is for blood press or arthritis. That would be very important. The whole list of stuff there. 

Status: not important because it should be obvious at the top.

Non va/va: To me that should be obviously by who prescribed it

Injection: not important

Side effects: my side effects are important. General could be side effects, I would take that plus learn more under moderately important. 

Warnings: important 

Add: I am torn about that. If it is my central record than  it is important to add a medication.

Comments: slightly important

Taking as prescribed: I would say that would be slightly important.

What if you say I stopped, does that change it: the only one that ahs the importance is stopped or didn’t take it and why. Is this for my own reference or will the provider look at this.  If I stopped taking it I would let them know and if I stopped because of a side effect I should be communicating that to my provider. Maybe this would be a good place to ask for a secure message to the provider because I have been able to do it in the past and its great. I have been able to ask for a different medication and having that is very important.

This as a whole: I would put that under not important because I think maybe the capability to add comments here like eww it made me sick as my own note. So I think the comments and all of that is one package.  

**Groupings**

Under the top let’s take everything because secure messaging and group it together. All of that should be one bid package and it should be compact. 

Side effects, warnings, interactions together. 

The learn more, all side effects together. 

Any final changes: I think that’s okay. 

### Allergies Section - 10 minutes

I think a lot of people think allergies are life threatening. I would kind of like to sensitivities and allergies in here. I mean if I have a sensitivity toward latex I can survive that but peanuts could be live threatening. Can be categories these under a high risk, low risk or unknown. Lets categories these issues. Peanuts or codeine could be high risk, latex could be different. The most serve ones could be listed first. 

Severity: very important. 

Allergen: very important

Reaction: very important

Onset: very important as well.

Verified: I don’t think that is important at all because it all comes from the patient. Verification slightly important.

Documentation: slightly

Reported by: slightly reported and those three can be a group.  

Diagnosed: not important because that should be part of verified and reported by

Learn more: slightly important

Editing and add: that is important.

Comments: lets put that in important and make those three as a group because they are updated infomration form the patient. They change over time, get worse or go away especially for children. This is important that a person can update what is going on.  

The very important box should all be a group. 

Would this be a place to put if you have to take a medication for the allergy or have a EpiPen. I would say in very important a medication or counter acting drug or something. I don’t know if those things, my general knowledge is that unless it is a EpiPen there really isn’t a medication but who knows. Like if you are allergic to cats there is medication to take to lessen the reactions.  

Other groups: let’s put medication in very important. I think that’s good. 

## Wrap-up Questions - 5 minutes

Pretend you developed a new medication allergy, such as a rash when you take penicillin. Would you add that medication allergy on the medication section and/or the allergy section? I would say both because if it is prescribed to me I would put a note that it gives me a rash and put it in the allergy section as well. 
- How often do you expect to update each of these sections? Any of those sections, I guess it depends on how often I will have something prescribed form me depending  on if they input data into this. If my medical care at the va is placed here the only stuff I would need to add is comments like rash or something that I get from a non-va provider. That shouldn’t be much but I think once a month or a few months. I would go in more often to look at my vaccines. I might go in to look at it but I don’t expect to modify.
- Would you want to see these sections in a questionnaire before every VA appointment?  You’re talking about just having a winder to modify that can come up periodically. My experience is when  I go in I have to fill it out even if I was there last week. I would love to get an email a week ahead of time so I can look at it and say there are no changes. It would save time when I go to the doctor. That’s all I would need to do; I wouldn’t need to sit there and fill it out again. I have never figured out why I need to do it everything. If it can save me time then it is a great idea. Just do the same thing as “hi you have an appointment please review and make any changes then go from there. I think this would be very helpful for me. I hate waiting and going through pages of crap each time. So yeah if you can save me time and then I can update it at night because I have the resources. There’s nothing worse than being there and not having the bottle with me. I think it would be easier to provide that ahead of time when they can get information that they may not know off the top of the head. That would be an improvement. 
- If we could only build one of these topics into a pre-visit questionnaire, which one would you prefer? Medication because with eh assumption that I would be going to the doctor each year. The provider always asks if I had a flu shot so I think there are other avenue for those. Medication if you have a chronic issue and that is a longer term landscape and it is more important to have that kind of record. 
- Is there anything about medications, allergies, and immunizations that I should know about that I didn't cover today? Would it be worthwhile to list the generic, only because it is less expensive and most older people are on limited income. The pharmacists should let you know but a lot of them don’t. that’s an idea but I haven’t thought it through more than 15 seconds. I’m trying to think. Something that would be valuable to me is mailed prescription or one time only I get at the local pharmacy because it is fast. Maybe put a column for if it is mail ordered. If it is limited impact or one time I don’t mind but when they ask of others I say I think mail ordered. 
- Do you have any final questions for me? No just one comment. I have had the opportunity to do this before. I am impressed that you reach out to live people and ask about out thoughts so you got my vote. Thank you for doing this. 

## Thank-You and Closing - 5 minutes

Well we really appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us today. Your feedback is so helpful to us as we continue to work on the site and make sure it really works for Veterans.

Thanks! Lastly, do you know any other Veterans, caregivers, or service members who might be willing to participate in a future user research session? If Yes: Thank you! I'll have our team send you an email with a little blurb that you can pass along.

Great, well thank you so much again, and enjoy the rest of your day!
