# Session Notes from Participant 15, Friday, Feb. 19 2 - 3 pm ET	
Health Record (Medications, Allergies, and Immunizations), February 2021

Start recording.

I have started recording. I'd like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record my screen the audio as we talk today?" Yes. 

## Warm-up Questions - 10 minutes

To begin, we would like to get to know you a little better and understand your experiences with medications, allergies (or intolerances, like lactose intolerance), and any immunizations that you received in the past few years (such as flu shots or COVID).
- How much of your medical care do you receive from the VA?  100 percent.
- How do you keep track of your medications, immunizations, and allergies? I don’t have that many, I have one medication and immunizations I just get my yearly flu shot and a shingles shot. I do it all online. On the va med thing I do almost everything, communication I do online. Myhealthevet. 
  - What do you like about your current process? I like that it is there, I travel a lot, part time in AZ, CA and before covid I went overseas once a year and everything is on my computer and I can access it all the time. I can send messages and questions to my medical team when I think of it. Then not have to worry about coordinating with other schedules.  
  - What is frustrating about keeping track of your medications? One thing, when I need to log on it takes more clicks and a lot more digging around. Do I sign on with DS login, ID.me or if on that website then taking me to other websites. When I want to communicate I need to go to another site and it is not an intuitive process. I love the computer and even for me it is slow and frustrating. I can imagine for the older veterans, my dad cant do it unless I ma there and if they need to do anything on it they don’t. I will make phone calls in days. It is not user friendly. 
- How do you keep your VA providers up-to-date on your medications? For instance, maybe you stopped taking a medication or you were prescribed a new medication from a non-VA provider, how did you let your VA providers know? One of the reasons I am totally va is because it was hard to do it part non va and then va. When I retired I was seen at Fort Myers and I had never actually used a civilian system. When I moved to AZ and there wasn’t a base I tried to use Tricare and it was hard so I used va . it is hard to get eye appointments or other appointments through va, it would be nice to use someone outside but the systems don’t work well together. 
  - If you take any supplements, vitamins, or over-the-counter medications, do you share that with your VA providers? That’s a good question, I have never needed to before because I am an anti-medication person. I take Ritalin so I try to avoid taking other things. My doctor told me I need to start taking supplements but it didn’t occur to me to provide that. I take a multivitamin and she offered a prescription but I just get it at CVS. It didn’t occur to me that I should feed that to the system. I don’t think there is a que that tells you to share the information and that my need to be address. 
  - Most conversations, secure messaging: right.
  - Face to face or online more: I use a lot of secure messaging especially with COVID. With Ritalin you have to talk to you doctor because it is not renewable. I have to keep in contact with my mental health doctor a lot. It is easier to secure message him and walk away I don’t need to talk. When it is less 0often like GP then I may call but it is easier to message. I routinely make my appointments, cancel, and reschedule online. It is just so easy. Why do I want to call and be on hold when I can send a message and they get it. 
    - If yes, how did those experiences of letting your VA provider go? What methods did you utilize to communicate the change?
- Have you ever let your VA provider know about any changes to your allergy history? No I haven’t. 
- Have you ever received an immunization at a non-VA facility, maybe a non-VA provider's office or a pharmacy? I actually did and that is a good. I didn’t think to add it to the system. I am suing my GI bill to go back to college. When I enrolled I had to dig out my record from the army because you have to be chickenpox updated immunization to enroll. I couldn’t not find the evidence of the second shot; my immunization was in Iraq and it was one shot so they made me get another one. I didn’t think to add it to my record. The outside and inside aren’t real obvious as far as making sure they are recorded. 
- Beneficial all in one place: yes. 
- Covid: no but I am on the wait list. If someone came up here and it is low covid rates so there aren’t many shots. Occasionally there are shots. I would have to figure out how to put that in the system it is important to have it all in one place. 
  - If yes, how did you let your VA provider know about those immunizations? How did those experiences of letting your VA provider go? What methods did you utilize to communicate the change?
- Do you utilize MyHealtheVet?
  - If yes,
    - Have you ever checked your medication list on there? No I haven’t. I didn’t even think of it. I really only take one and over the counter. 
- How can we make it easier for you to communicate to your VA providers? Messaging system is straight forward and useful. As far as looking at the records to ensure they are correct and outside things are on them wouldn’t have occurred to me prior to this. I don’t know how that works but that is important to have it all in one place. Probably needs to be a que and someway to walk people through it. 

## Mural Activity - 30 minutes

Next, we will complete an activity that helps prioritize and group information that we could display online in medication, allergy, and immunization sections. Let me share my screen with you, so we can start this activity: Mural link.

### Immunizations Section - 10 minutes

Vaccine : flu moderately important, covid very important. Again I travel a lot so anything . 

Date received: very important

Reaction: moderate

Second dose: moderately. 

By mouth: moderately

Inject: not important

Product name: I have no idea, to me personally it is not. If it is important to my medical team I would defer to the experts. Not important

Lot number: not important. Important to my health professionals. There are things that need to be in but the professionals need it

Healthcare professionals: important

Editing reactions: to me that may be moderately important. I haven’t had many reactions before besides the shingles but that was common

Printing: very important

Adding: that is kind of weird because I don’t think I can self-report it. Don’t I have to have a record.  I would say that is very important.  If I saw that in there that would be my que to add it to the record. 

Comments: slightly important

Schedule: important. 

CDC: That’s important

Recommended: important. I think that is my healthcare team telling me I can get a shingles shot due to being 60.

Assume it would be a smart recommendation: yes. This is my recommendations for me specifically. I would say that is important.  That may be moderately important. 

Is there anything that should be added to immunizations that we didn't already review? 

**Groupings**

All of the actual immunizations should eb together, that has to be together. The rest of it I don’t know. Anything that ahs to do with the manufacture should be together like the technical information that may be of use in the future. 

Product name, lot number

Recommendations, scheduling, CDC, smart recommendations should go together. 

Health professionals with the yellow circle. 

Anything that is personal in blue. 

Any changes: I would say the blue circle you can add in the by mouth, right and left deltoid. That looks good. 

### Medications Section - 10 minutes

Medication: important

Prescribed by is very important

Refills, expiration, when ordered: very important

Description moderately important

Quantity and duration: important, would go with the green circles.

Rx number: I don’t even know what that is, slightly important or not important. 

Directions: very important

Status: not important

Non va/va: moderately important for record keeping

Injection: moderately. 

Pharmacy: moderately

Learn more: slightly important. When I click on that I will get more information about the drug interactions, warnings, stuff like that I would think. 

Side effects: slightly important

Yours or in general: in general

What about if it is yours: than important. 

Warnings: important

Add: very important

Comments: slightly important

Taking as prescribed: I guess that is important. 

Is there anything that should be added to medications that we didn't already review? Oh yes, the reason why it is being prescribed/diagnose it relates to and I would put that in important.

Anything else:  

**Groupingsv- groups as sorting as well.**

Everything else in very important: group together. 

Reasons why would be grouped with quantity and duration. 

Pharmacy, duration, quantity, reason why as a group. 

Any other groups: I think that looks good. 

### Allergies Section - 10 minutes

Allergen: very important

Verified: I would consider that as important 

Documenting: it would be moderately important

Reaction: very important

Onset date: moderately important

Severity: very important

Reported by: moderately important

Editing: as reporting your own reactions, I would say very important

Add: very important

Comments: slightly important

Learn more: important

Diagnosed: I would think that would be with verified so important. 

Between those two, would you only want one: I don’t think the diagnosed or not is important because it is the same as verified. I prefer diagnosed rather than verified but still want the date. Verified can have a judgmental vide whereas diagnosed is more scientific.

Is there anything that should be added to allergies that we didn't already review? This might be where if allergies have side effects of medications. If you eat peanuts and they can kill you, allergies are important to because they can interact with important or could be problematic. This would be for the individual and if I am allergic for something what would be the unintended effects. Are there medications, or other things. I would put that as important. 

**Groupings**

Everything in very important together

Everything in important together

Anything in moderately important together. 

Final changed: no that looks good. 

## Wrap-up Questions - 5 minutes

Pretend you developed a new medication allergy, such as a rash when you take penicillin. Would you add that medication allergy on the medication section and/or the allergy section? Both places and have the two of them popup. They need to be intergraded yes. 
- How often do you expect to update each of these sections? I want to be when I feel like doing it, that’s what I love about the online system. I also like ques so if I schedule my annual physical it would be nice to have a popup or email, like go in one week before to do labs. It would be nice for it to prompt me to add medications taking right now, look at allergies and vaccines that may not be added to records. 
- Would you want to see these sections in a questionnaire before every VA appointment? I would want to see it if it is relevant if it is to the appointment. I don’t want to see it quarterly or semiannual. I want to see them on event based.
- What would be the appointment types you want it for: for me, right before my annual physical then targeted ones. I have to go in for a colonoscopy in March so if there is infomration relevant to that, I would see reminders or surveys that relate. It is easier for me if infomration requests are targets for the event instead of it being semiannual. To me that means there is another human on the side that want to see that and it is relevant for the interaction instead of it being sent out then just going on the record. 
- Would you want to see these sections once every six months or some other time period?
- If we could only build one of these topics into a pre-visit questionnaire, which one would you prefer? I don’t think you can pick between immunization and allergies. You have to have ethe immunizations , its not personal it is the great good of the community. You need a record; you need smallpox and covid vaccines and you need to see the record. Allergies could eb life saving for the individual. If I had to pick I would pick immunizations because it is for the greater good whereas the allergies is for my personal good. It is hard to choose between the two. 
- Do you think adding these pages to a pre-visit questionnaire will help or not help you explain changes to your medications, allergies, and immunizations to your VA provider? Useful, I think it would be use. My preference is that it is event based however it works for the system is useful and would be productive. 
- Is there anything about medications, allergies, and immunizations that I should know about that I didn't cover today? Not that I can think of, thanks. 

## Thank-You and Closing - 5 minutes

Well we really appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us today. Your feedback is so helpful to us as we continue to work on the site and make sure it really works for Veterans.

Thanks! Lastly, do you know any other Veterans, caregivers, or service members who might be willing to participate in a future user research session? If Yes: Thank you! I'll have our team send you an email with a little blurb that you can pass along.

Great, well thank you so much again, and enjoy the rest of your day!
