# Session Notes from Participant 3, Tuesday, Feb. 16, 2021, 12:45 - 1:45 p.m.
Health Record (Medications, Allergies, and Immunizations), February 2021

Start recording.

- I have started recording. I'd like to confirm: Are you comfortable if I record my screen the audio as we talk today?" Yes. 

## Warm-up Questions - 10 minutes

To begin, we would like to get to know you a little better and understand your experiences with medications, allergies (or intolerances, like lactose intolerance), and any immunizations that you received in the past few years (such as flu shots or COVID).
- How much of your medical care do you receive from the VA?  A great deal.
- How do you keep track of your medications, immunizations, and allergies? Through my HealtheVet. I don’t usually look if they have my allergies correct but I use it for medication. If I need refills, need to request refills, or send a message to the doctor. It is the only way to access my provider with what’s going on now. I use secure messaging. 
  - What do you like about your current process?
  - What is frustrating about keeping track of your medications? Definity in the delay in messages in secure messages, it doesn’t seem like there’s a way tog et it to them quickly with covid I have been spending a lot of time to talk to the women’s clinic I ended up having to drive in to talk to them. I was maddening. I made sure my VM was full because they would call and said it was full but it wasn’t. I tried to find an easier process but there was not. When I went in person they got me scheduled, in person was a breeze. 
- How do you keep your VA providers up-to-date on your medications? For instance, maybe you stopped taking a medication or you were prescribed a new medication from a non-VA provider, how did you let your VA providers know? In person. It has always been in person. I am trying to think if there has ever been besides refills has been secure messaging. I speak in person about my on going needed. There has been an issue, apparently you need to be seen once a year by the provider then they take you off the list and you can’t get the medication and it ahs taken me a year to get to. It is a frustrating process. 
  - If you take any supplements, vitamins, or over-the-counter medications, do you share that with your VA providers? I don’t share that. Well I  go in once a year for the counseling program so I am able to get them updated in person when I am at my appointments. All done in person.  
- Have you ever let your VA provider know about any changes to your allergy history?
  - If yes, how did those experiences of letting your VA provider go? What methods did you utilize to communicate the change?
- Have you ever received an immunization at a non-VA facility, maybe a non-VA provider's office or a pharmacy?
  - If yes, how did you let your VA provider know about those immunizations? How did those experiences of letting your VA provider go? What methods did you utilize to communicate the change?
- How do you prepare for your appointment when you have changes you would like to discuss with your VA provider? I always have my notebook with questions, a solution, and a plan. I put it all in my phone under memos. 
- Allergy updates: I have never had to update them; they have been the same. I have never had to do anything with it. 
- Immunization: I get 100 percent of my care through them so I think when I had private health insurance I just didn’t use the va. When I transferred over I filled them in from anything before. If there is a national database they are able to look it up on there as well. I made a list and was a thorough as possible and they have been able to update it all in person. 
- How can we make it easier for you to communicate to your VA providers? I guess if they had a lesson, they have the nurse line if I have a medical issue but if there was someone that I could talk to with my concerns during working hours. It would be nice to talk to them and actually get help, but they have roadblocks like fi you don’t have the number they cant help you. 

## Mural Activity - 30 minutes

Next, we will complete an activity that helps prioritize and group information that we could display online in medication, allergy, and immunization sections. Let me share my screen with you, so we can start this activity: Mural link.

### Immunizations Section - 10 minutes

Immunization: very important 

Dates: that’s when it was received. That would be very important I would think. 

Reactions: I would say less important because I would know that already. Slightly important

Dose: very important

By mouth: slightly important

Area: slightly important

Product name: I would say very important because you need the same shot and it has to be the same

Lot number: I would say moderately important

Healthcare professional: moderately important

Editing: slightly important

Add: I would say that is very important, I thought that was the healthcare professional to add it in there. Is that for me to add. Oh okay, then slightly important because I wouldn’t add anything. 

Would you change anything else: let me look. I would say lot number not important to me. I think that’s good.


Comments: very important because if I need to get a message to someone I would want to get to it quickly. Thinks the box will send a message to the doctor right away. 

Schedule: very important then move the other stuff to important. The actual date received and what was received, dose and everything but the comments. Then I would pout schedule as very important as well. 

CDC: I would say slightly important. I think if I were going to go on vacation there are rules for quarantining, masks or if you can visit there. 

Recommended screenings: Very important and I assume that is for anything that I may have coming up within the next 90 days to keep up with the vaccinations. Like my doctors put something in there and I need to schedule. 

Is there anything that should be added to immunizations that we didn't already review?  I guess I wish there were a way to ask a questions that would go to someone, either FAQ or to post a questions for others and they will urgently get back to you. 

**Groupings**

I definitely think how we have them on the difference importance they are already together. 

Any more subgroups: I think that there should be where you got your injections/clinic should be attached to the dates so you know where and when you got it. I think also the method would need to be noted this that as well. So you can see where it was, how I got it. Then I think CDC, editioning, adding immunization can go together. I think how the very important is all action and are important to keep together. Like that all very important are actions. I do think that the lot number of the injections should go with the specific injections on the date and know it is attached to that. I think that is about it. 

### Medications Section - 10 minutes

Medication: the actual medications are very important

Rx number: next to medication because it is how the va drives things.

Refills next to that in very important.

Prescribed: moderately important and where 

Descriptions: I do sometimes look at that so I think that is slightly important. I only use it when I had a medication that past. 

Duration: important

Quantity: important so you know. 

Status: I think that is very important because I would hope the active ones where listed first and not all jumbled together because that would be confusing. Then the active then the moderately would be discontinued or expired. 

Va or non va prescription: very important because you need to know here to go for refills

Type of medication: slightly because you should know that already

Instruction: the rules are important. 

Last refilled: that should go under important.

Expires: slightly important

Ordered on: that’s not the same as the prescription date that’s just when it was put in not when it is due. That would be slightly important because it would eb confusing with other dates

Number of pharmacy: important

Learn more: slightly important. Learn more about the medication would link to the printout sheet but electronically of what it does, counterproductive. 

Effects: slightly important

Warnings: very important. 

Add medication: very important 

Comments: very important

Taking as prescribed: very important and move the others down a little. I would move everything expect for the warnings and interactions down to moderately important. Then I would have the VA and non-VA prescriptions would go to important. Same with the Status of the medication. Then I would leave it like that. 

Is there anything that should be added to medications that we didn't already review? Not that I can tell. 

If it is a non-va or va prescription should go near the doctors. Warnings and interactions should go with the instructions. Probably the side effects should go with that as well. The last refilled and number of refills should be together. The number of refills with the prescriptions. Then the action items like comments, adding, should all be together. I think the descriptions and learn more about the medications, ordered on dates, and expired should be kept together as well as the method.  

Anything else: no. 

### Allergies Section - 10 minutes

Allergies: I think that is very important

The dates verified is very important with that.

Onset dates and severity are important

Documents and reported by, are slightly important

I think the reaction is very important. Same with editing, comments up top.

More about the allergies and diagnosis  would be moderately important. 

Is there anything that should be added to allergies that we didn't already review?  Nope I don’t think so. 

I like the action items together. I think that the allergen, verified and the reaction is would be together. The documenting facility and who is doing it would be important to keep together.

Severity and onset should go with the reaction. 

## Wrap-up Questions - 5 minutes
- Pretend you developed a new medication allergy, such as a rash when you take penicillin. Would you add that medication allergy on the medication section and/or the allergy section? I would put it in both, I would think one would copy to the other. That’s a hard one. I think I would be more likely to put it under allergy but I would hope it would copy to both. 
- How often do you expect to update each of these sections?  Yeah because usually unless it is something acute it is almost always do to medication, trying something new. I would like to do it before each appointment. 
- If we could only build one of these topics into a pre-visit questionnaire, which one would you prefer?  Oh shoot. That’s a hard one. I think medication would be the preference because the pharmacy system at the va is so broken. It’s so confusing, I have seen people struggle in person and when at the va you hear people freaking out, it is a daily  occurrence. It is a battle zone. I have to clear my schedule before I go. 
- Helpful: yes, I think the ability to be hear and have questions answered as longa s it is quickly and not a week later. It would probably stop the issues at the pharmacy. 
- Is there anything about medications, allergies, and immunizations that I should know about that I didn't cover today? As far as the immunizations I don’t know how they keep track of it, it seems like when I am there they tell me what I am do for. It would eb nice to see what I am behind on and what I am do on. The VA is dropping the ball on that part. It would stop the communication block that is going on. 
- Do you have any final questions for me? Nope

## Thank-You and Closing - 5 minutes

Well we really appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts with us today. Your feedback is so helpful to us as we continue to work on the site and make sure it really works for Veterans.

Thanks! Lastly, do you know any other Veterans, caregivers, or service members who might be willing to participate in a future user research session? If Yes: Thank you! I'll have our team send you an email with a little blurb that you can pass along.

Great, well thank you so much again, and enjoy the rest of your day!
